894.6552 Manufactures. Manufacturing., Textiles., Japan, Silk., June 23, 1945 - February 2, 1949 (File 1689)
ID: 894.6552-1689   Pages: 198   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6552-manufactures-manufacturing-textiles-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.90)
TO THE RM/E CENTRAL PILES
HALS DOCUMENT MUST BE RETURNM
Guaranty Trust Company of New York
One Hundred Forty Broadway
New York 15, N.Y.
Jume 23, 19:5
Mr. Jelter . Yohn
Department of state
Tachinaton, D. c.
Dear ialter:
894.6552/6-2
It vas a pl aeure to hear Prom you
under dute of Jme 2oth.
I be: to erelore a monorandum which
summrisen the results of on inquiry made of the
bost souree we mow. As you will cee from the
oreni pare re h this nfor mtion vas coneurred
in ', several other inforunnts.
I? pou would like arythins further
on this or way other cu jeete, please comaand me.
34
ah  rele, belteve me
5
Sincerely yours,
enclosure:
Jumes . Micely
0: 1c
-2345

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Stocks of Japanese Raw Silk
The question of stocks of Japanese raw silk was discussed with several firms that are
importers of Japanese silk in normal times. All seid that it is impossible even to
estimate the amount of raw silk at present held by the Japanese. The following infor-
mation was given by one source, which in the past has been the largest importer of this
type of silk, and the information given was largely confirmed by the other informants.
It is my opinion that stocks in Japan, are 50,000 to 75,000 bales. I would
not dignify that statement by calling it an "estimate", it is merely a."wild
guess", as there has been no information for some time upon which to base any
estimate. My reasons for thinking stocks are snall are:
1. We have been inforned that mulberry trees have been cut down and the
acreage plant d with grains.
There have also been reports that the Japanese, like the Chinese,
have been using cocoons for inter-lining in clothing. They act like
insulation. You can't have your cocoons and use them too.
3. Labor shortege.
4. The reeling plents could very eas ly be converted into factories for
making airplane parts and I  hink this has probably been done in most
cases. of course, some reeling is still being done to supply domestic
needs.
5. Based on my knowledge of the Japanese, I do not think they went on
producing large creps after our embargo on silk. They have done some
very stupid things, but I do not think they would have been stupid
enough to produce big crops of silk for which there was no market.
Therefere, I don't think t at there has been a huge accumulation of
silk stocks in recent years. Alse, they have drawn on their stocks
fo: war needs and to mix with wool and cotton in the manufacture of
fabrics in order to stretch their dwindling supplies of these fibres.
I think ir. Spafford's idea that there may be 500, 000 bales in Japan
is pure day-dreaming and I would be willing to bet with him that my
"wild guess" of 50,000 beles is nearer the truth than his 500,000.
6. Yokohama and Kobe are the centers of the silk industry and heavy
destruction by bombing probably has caused damage to the industry
and destroyed stocks that may be there. Heavier bombing is promised
for the future.
Attached is a clipping from the New York Evening Sun of June 14. 1945. Mr. Spafford
was formerly connected with the Silk Exchange in some statistical capacity. All our
sources of information were familiar with this clipping and all stated emphatically
that they did not agree with :Ir. Spafford's estimate of 500,000 bales.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
The New York
Evening Sun
June 14, 1945
JAPANESE SILK STOCKST
The possibility that 500,000
bales of raw silk is being held
in Japan at the present time,
available for export on resump-
tion of trade after the war, is
visualized by W. A. Spafford, silk
expert. Based on quoted prices
for inferior Brazilian silk arriving
in this country, Mr. Spafford
notes that the Japanese holdings
would be worth nearly $1,000,000.-
000. Even at 1941 ceiling prices
they would be valued at between
$200,000,000 and $300,000,000.
With the American public
starved for fine textile fabrics
and hosiery and consumer stocks
at the vanishing point, Mr. Spaf-
ford says that a ready market
would be created for Japanese
raw silk after hostilities cease.
He also believes that silk produc-
tion would fill a gap in Japan's
economic life, if peace terms dic-
tate abandonment of many heavy
industries.
3
Some stocks of silk are in Italy.
Mr. Spafford estimates the vol-
ume at from 50,000 to 60,000
bales. Hints have been heard
r
that some of that silk soon may
n
be exported to the United States.
k

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
ICTORY
BUY
COMBINED RAW MATERIALS BOARD
SOCIAL SECURITY BUILDING
WASHINGTON, D. C.
September 26, 1945
Mr. J. G. Evens
COMMODITIES DIVISION
State Depertment
Room 509
1712 3 Street, H. X.
SED07 1045
Washington, . 3.
Deer Mr. Evans:
attacned you will find cony of a memorandum, dated September 22,
894.6552/
from Mr. . McDougall of the British Raw Hateriels Mission, concerning
Japanese silk, togetner vith cony of our reply.
W phould aporeciate it if you would answer Mr. McDougall's
inquiry directly r, if you pr fer, previde us the information he in
seeking.
Very truly yours.
ω
Lhace
Enealia
1
645
Eulalia L. Wali
Attachment
49
7
.6552
7hd

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
M. MoDougall
fx
Miss E. Wall
September 22,
SILX
Owing to the short rew meterial position, the U.K. are
ansious to obtain supplies of Japanese raw silk as soon as
possible. Mr. Gaadum will probably be visiting China in
October, and if possible the Ministry of Supply would like
to have him visit Japan also.
The policy regarding Japanese supplies generally is
still under discussion interdepartmentally in London, but
meanwhile the Ministry have asked us to ascertain what plans
F.E.A. or other U.S. agencies are making regarding supplies
from Japan and whether the U.K. requirement should be coor-
dinated with eny U.S. requirements.
I shoulc be grateful to have your comments as soon as
possible.
Orow
M. McDougall
MMcD/ct

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
Ret
September 26, 1945
HEMORANDUM
TO:
Mr. M. McDougall
FROM:
Bulalia L. Wall
This will acknowledge your memorandum of September 22
inquiring as to what plans the Foreign Eoonomic Administration or
other United States agoncies are making regarding silk supplies from
Japan. We do not know of any plans of this kind, but are forwarding
copies of your memorandum to the appropriate divisions of the State
Dapartment and F.E.A., asking that they either get in touch with you
directly or supply us the answers to your questions.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
Army and Navy Munitions Board
Washington, D. C.
Gentlomon:
A letter from the Secretary of the Navy dated October 2, 1944
suggested that a comprehensive review be undertaken of the abaca projects
in Cantral America and that recommendations be made regarding their retontion
in whole or in part as a means of prior provision in the Mestern Hemisphere
in the event of any future emergency. On November 11, 1944 this department
replied to the Secretary of the Navy stating that consideration of this pro-
blem would soon be undertaken by a technical sub-committee on cordage and
miscellaneous fibers to be established under the Executive Comrittee on
Economic Foroign Policy.
The sub-comrittee on cordage and miscellaneous fibers has been
studying this and related problems since January of this year and now desires
to submit its recom endations on disposition of the Central American abaca
projects to the Aray and Navy Munitions Board as the appropriate crganization
to iuplement such recammendations coordinated with whatever legislation may
be enacted to provide for postwar stockpiling of critical and strategic raw
materials.
There are five abaca plantations now being operated by the United
Fruit Company in Central America for the United States Government, two being
located in Costa Rica and ono each in Panamm, Guatenala and Honduras. They
were originally designed to have cach produce approximately 12,000,000 pounds
of fiber or a total annual output of 60,000,000 pounds. As developments have
occurred, howevor, the three projects in Panama and Costa Rica have progressed
most favorably and, with the additionaa of another processing line of machinery

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
in Pamame, these three plantations alons should produce about 38,000,000
pounds anrmally comsmsnoing in 1946. The projects in Guatemmle and Hondmes
have been retarded by a combination of unfavorable facters inaluding pralonged
drouth conditions and possibly less desirable soil for maximm field prodme-
tion as compared with the current outlook at the other thres plantatioms.
This govarnment's contracts with the United Fruit Company do not
expire until the end of 1948 but may be terminated upon sixty dayst notiee.
In the event of termination of the projects in Panama and Costa Rica, the
United Fruit Company has first option to purchase them before liquidation by
this goverrment, the nationals in Guatemala and Honduras have first option to
purchase the abaca properties in those countries, with the United Fruit Company
to have next option before liquidation by the United States Government.
There are several important factors to be considered in commsetion
with any decision to be made regarding disposition of these projects. First
of all, the United Fruit Company has not as yet made known its om intentions
as to whether or not it will want to operate any or all of the plantations
on a commeroial basis. Secondly, there is the problen of arriving at some
ratio of Central American in relation to Philippine production in the possible
event of continuing government control over Western lenisphere abaca output.
Based upon present kmown conditions and factors, it is recommended
that the Army and Navy Munibions Board consider favorably the retention and
operation of the three projects in Panama and Costa Rica which will have an
anmual estivated output of 38,000,000 pounds of fiber and which will provide
also a contiming seed bed for future oxpansion if and when needed. In the
event that the United Fruit Company does not choose to operate these projects
independently, it is recommended that they be kept in operation through con-
timuing support by this government in order to insure maintenance of Western
Hemisphere abaca productions at the ahove minimm level.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.93)
Your cemments are invited on the above rooomendatien. In the
evess that farther consideration is desired on this subjeet and the related
problem of postaar stocipiling of critical and strategic absee fiber, the
detailed files of the sub-committes ean be mads available to your Bemrd upom
roqgost.
Information copies of this letter are being furmrded to the
Secretary of War and to the Secretary of the Navy.
Sineerely yours,
For the Secretary of State
Clayton

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.94)
101945
In reply refer to
CD
My dear Mr. MeDougall:
Your memorandum of September 26, 1945 to
894.6552/9-2645
Miss Eulalia L. Wall of the Combimed Raw Materials
Board, relating to the preposed visit of Mr. Geddwm
of the British Ministry of Supply to Japan and the
disposition of supplies of Japamese silk that may be-
come available, has been referred to the Department
of State.
I asswme that the British Ministry of Supply will
arrange for the visit of Hr. Gaddum te Japam through
British Army representatives on General MaeArthmr's
staff.
A poliey regarding the distribution of Japanese
supplies is now in process of formulation, and it is
probable that some arrangements for coordinating the
requirenents
CS/LE
n
Mr. m. MoDougall,
894.6552
Room 4746, Soolal Security Building,
Washington, D. C.
G18
-2645

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
requirements of importing countries and fer allosat-
ing available supplies of raw silk and other predusts
1n surplus im Japan will soon be determimed.
Sineerely yours,
DK
Donald D. Kemmedy
Chief
Gemmodities Divisien
20 9
cw
NE
CD:GEVans:JD
A-C
ITP
105
(Cleared with Mr.
(Mr. Wilcox)
Martin)

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
October 22, 1945.
Mr. Merrill C. Gay
Commercial Policy vivision,
Dep't of State- Room 513,
1712 G St., N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Gay:
Confirming our very interesting and pleasant
conversation during my visit to your office on Oct l7th.;
I outline herewith briefly a resume of my past performances
of International business activities. This resume is offered
for your departments enlightment in considering my request
to partake in reopening and promoting my business activities
with Japan; if and when such approval is given by the U.S.
for such trade.
88
Entering the Textile Fiber business on July. 1,
1919 upon my return to civilian life from the U.S. Naval
Flying Corp after  W 1, I learned the Silk and Wool Trades
6552
from the. firm of Troy & Gladu Co., of Boston, Opening my
own business May 1922 as ..erchant etc., until 1927 at which
time I took over the merican representation of the firm of
Raimondo Buratti of iella, Italy, continuing as such until
1935 when the Ethiopian War finished trade with the U.. As
such representative I promoteu and sold their products of
Rayon ribers, Raw ilk Hastes for import. I purchased Wools
and silk by-products from merican  ills for shipment to Italy.
0
-2245
In 1936 I took over the Arency of Hara & Co.,
of N.Y. City and Yokohama continuing until July 26, 1941,
when the u.S. put on the freeze order which thus ended this
connection as far as business went. In this capacity I
developed a market for Chinese and Japanese Textile Fibers
Raw Siiks-Rayons- Camels Hairs- Cashmere- Wools etc., and
negotiated for them the purchase of "ayon Pulps and Newsprint
Pulps. These being the principal products and no materials
that might go towards ar products were included. 1 believe
this firm was in business in New York from about 19o0 and
had marketed only Raw ilk pior to my association with them.
I understand that this company during my
association handled anproximately 25% of all the aw Silk
Imported to U.S. from Japan. With the freeze of 194l, this
source of business ceased. You will recall the letter I showed
you dated Aug 20, 1941 from i.r. Shunosuke Yoshimoto, the
General Manager of this firm wherein he stated in part, that
he wished that I visit ew York to hold a conference with

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Gay #2.
0ct. 22, 1945.
him to outline a plan to continue the General Merchandise
Department under cover of the American Flag and the U.S.
permission with countries other than Japan. That the Raw
Silk they owned and that they should deliver to their
ustomers,as well as the 2,Oo0 ales they had in stock was
frozen and the problem was still unsolved. Of course no
such activity was allowed even though he was holding out
hopes that some kind of bater system would be arranged
between U.S. and Japan as well as the healing of diplomatio
relations. However Pearl Harbor closed all activities
excepting the liqudation of this company, which was an
orderly affair under the Supervison of Mr. Howard Reed from
the Treasury Dep't and Mr. Tuhos. J. O'Conner, National Bank
Examiner with Mr. Yoshimoto cooperating at the request of the
U.S. Governments Officials., during 1942.
I believe there was only one other Japanese
firm that was liquidated under this system of having the
Japanese anager's cooperation,all other firms' Managers
being interned. Further than this r. Yoshimoto enjoyed
his freedom at home until Aug, 1942, at which time he was
taken into custody.
During the early part of 1937, I was requested
to study and make contacts in the Wood Pulp field. Our
domestic Rayon Plants could not supply the demand for Rayon
and Japan needed new sources of supply of Rayon Pulp; Pulp
containing Special High qualities of purification. During
this period I interviewed either the ales Managers or High
Officials of practically every important Rayon Pulp Mill in
the U.S. and Canada. It was my assignment to negotiate the
purchase of a contemplated 5c,000 Tons per year for contract
for five years. This also pertered out shortly after the
start of thc China Japan ar which tied up Japanese currency
for Imports,necessitating Japanese Import licenses etc.
However I do feel responsible for the erection of the English
River Pulp Mill at Fort William, Ontario,where they perfected
a Fulp much higher than any previous type running up to
99.4% as against 96% for cotton. This was a 60,000 Tons per
year mill that eyentually was diverted to the manufacturing
for Gun Powder,as this pulp would save some 8 to 10 hours in
the process per operation.
During 1940/41, I had been purchasing Silk Noils
for a dealer who held a contract for Shipment to Canada for
the making of Fowder Bags, until they ran into difficulty in
their process. I was invited to attend a meeting of members
of the Dominion Textile Mills and the Government Dep't of
Munitions and Supplies., at Montreal. Pointing out their
mistakes and unnecessary consumption of 50% extra Raw materil;
than getting scarce; I was requested to negotiate the purchase
of a  illion and a uarter square yds., from American Mfgs.
as an original order for delivery over a one year period. This
was concluded but never executed as a ..ember of OPM stepped
in and prohibited its export,although GPo, M22, quoted Canada
as a preferance nation.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Gay #3.
0ct 22, 1945
After the Japanese entered China in 1937 and
the Chinese products thet had always been controlled by
British and German Firms became available to the Japs, I
drew up a program for their acquisition etc., for Hara &
Co., the basis of which was that they employ the best
available Chinese help regardless of costs. So that they
opened offices in Tientsin and hanghai and these products
came to the U.S., in some cases better products than the
American trade had ever received before., being diverted from
the English market.
Thus with China now open again for free trade
and development, I have recently made connections and have
pooled my interests with an American Chinese and some other
American business men; thus bringing in capital and connections
and now stand prepared to renew a much larger and more active
program in the development of this foreign trade.
Therefore as stated previously, I trust that in
considering the future trading with Japan and China andpar-
ticuBrly in the Distribution of the Japanese Raw Silk now
held in Japan, some 46,000 Bales, which I understand is con-
templated to be used to barter against food for the Japanese;
I have opportunity of teking part in this distribution;
being a Fre-Nar Channel for these goods.
The Japanese Silk dealers and importers now being
out of the merican picture there are not many of us left.
My former principals handled approx., 25% of the total and
the U.S. averaged to take about 85% each year of the Japanese
total production. Thus I trust that in the coming Inter-
national conference, when this product is discussed for the
division among the some 10 nations participating Oct 30, this
figure will be kept in mind as undoubtedly these other nations
combined did not buy l0% of the total.
My dealings with Switzerland, Holland, England,
South american countries, Canada, Australia, and Russia
through the mtorg Trading Corp., have been quite extensive.
The Russian picture looms up in a different light than all
others. I heve found in the past that there is only one way
to conclude succesful dealings with them and that is a
strong and definite insistence that if they did not want to
agree to a justifiable compromise,to merely tell them , " I
am no longer interested in their proposition and to forget
the whole business etc.," but in much stronger language.
I have purchased from them, for customers, some large quantities
of Mongolian Camels Hair and negotiated for more. Recently
they offered large quantities of Silk Cocoons, the origin of
which is claimed to be Russia, but there is a doubt as to this
country of origin. However there is possibilities with these
over ambitious people, if they are properly handled, as
each transaction always brings in new unpleasant angles unlike
dealings with most foreign business firms.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
Mr. Gay #3.
Oct. 22, 1945.
I shall be only too pleased to furnish any
further information regarding this entire field of activity
that I have to offer and consider it a privilege to do so
in person at your office if you so desire.
I thank you for your courtesy on my recent visit
and hope we meet again soon.
Yours very truly,
Janipalouey.
DJM:0
Have juretuedmy
offices fion wmlurgtorand
regaiding y,.s. yoalhimots.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
11-30-45
CP
Mr. Brown:
In accordance with your
request, there is attached all
the information conc erning Shunosuke
Yoshimoto contained in the FBI's
files.
assu...
DIVISION OF JU.
NOV0 1945C
On.
FC:DNe a1 :CBV DEPARIMENI JF 

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
YOSHIMOTO, Shunosuke
There 1s a report dated June 24, 1942 regarding the subject.
He 1s a Japanese alien born in Japan on January 14, 1892. He 1s
presently residing at Great Neck, Long Island, with his wife, who
1s of French descent. They have two children. He was formerly
Director of the Nippon Club and a member of the Japanese Association
and Japanese Chamber of Commerce of New York. He was General
Manager of Hara and Company, prominent silk importers. A brother of
the subject is associated with a Japanese newspaper in Tokyo and a
brother-in-law is said to be a Japanese General serving in China.
He was reported to be intimate with officers of the Japanese Imperial
Navy, Inspectors Office, and Japanese Army Officers prior to the
war. He visited Japan on April 1, 1939 and was there only a short
time when he returned to the United States. The United States
Attorney for the Eastern District of New York applied for a
Presidential warrant on June 19, 1942 for his apprehension. He
was apprehended on July 6 at his residence and was delivered to
Immigration and Naturalization authorities, Ellis Island, on the
same date. He admitted serving as Director of the Nippon Club
in New York from 1937 until December 1941, and further admits
membership in the Japanese Association and Japanese Society in
New York. He also admitted that from July 1940 to July 1941, he
acted as an agent for Hara and Company in purchasing marcury to
be sent to Japan for munitions. Subject claimed relationship to
General Tojo and stated his brother-in-law was a General but denied
any association or activities with subversive groups in this
country.
On October 27, 1942 the Attorney General recommended that
subject be interned. On October 15, 1943 the internment order
dated September 10, 1942 was vacated by the Attorney General in view
of the fact that the subject was repatriated to Japan.
D C.R sas Iffice of Naral Jutell. may have more
wuB
not worth it
019021945

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
8
d9
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
October 26, 1945.
Mr. Merrill C.Gay
Commercial Policy Division
Dep't of State- Room 513
1712 G St., N.W.
ashington D.C.
Dear Mr. Gay:
I confirm my letter of Uct.22nd. to you re
to my interest in the contemplated shipments of Raw Silk
from Japan.
On my recent visit I oulined briefly what I
knew about MR. SHUNOSUKE YOSHIMOTO, who was General Manager
of Hara & Co., 1 Park Ave., New York and with Headquarters in
Yokohama.
I herewith repeat those facts.
If I recall correctly he is now 48 ot 50 years
b
old. He went to France for this company to the Silk Trading
center of Lyon I believe abt 23 years ago, where he remained
for some 1o Years. He then was transferred to the New York
office, where he spent approx. 10 years up to the time of
his repatraition Sept.2, 1943 to Japan., on the Gripsholn.
He is married to Marie Threse Terrier about 10
2
or 1l years now- whom he had known in France as sweethearts
and who came to New York to be married. They have two
children: Minette now abt 9 years and Simone Claudette abt
0
4 yrs., both born in New York City and thus U.3. Citizens.
264
I do know that Lirs. Yoshimoto had taken First Citizenship
papers but he of course could not being born in Japan.
I first knew him in early 1937 and until his
departure had a constant business association with him as
5
well as much social opportunity to visit his home and family.
He is & man who devoted all of his off business hours entirely
to his family and his religion is Catholic., which he practises
very fervently., as does his wife and family.
He was a man who loved the U.s.A., proof of the
point being that he had a Contract with his home company that
he could remain as Head of the American Branch for the balance
of his life.
 Further in 1939 when he was recalled to Japan
for a conference and offered the Managership of the Company
for the whole world he rejected same.
It was his expressed
desire to have his family remain Americans for all time and
this expression was before any talk of trouble with Japan and
before the last child was born and it was still his desire
expressed to me even after Pearl Harbor.
His wife had
been Violinist in her younger days having a Studio in France.
He speaks seven languages- having arquired Latin
and Italian during his internment in the U.S.A., and having
acted as Asst. Head of the Language school at Ft. Meade while
he was interned; Prince Boncompiano being the head.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
BILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
Oct. 26, 1945.
Mr. Gay #2.
At the time of Pearl Harbor practically all Japanese
were rounded up and Interned and the Companies were seized as
well as their Books etc. Mr. Yoshimoto was not. The Officials
from the Treasury Dept. and the National Bank examiners took
over the premises and in fact made the offices of Hara & Co.,
their headquarters. A Mr. O'Connor headed the Bank men and
Mr. Howard Read from the Treasury.
Mr. Yoshimoto was invited
to come to the offices daily and assemble some of the employees
and assist in the Liquidation of his company in an orderly fashion.
This of course unlike the proceedure of Mitsui and Mitsubushi
and all the others, whose Jap men were in internment camps.
This action of course I did not have explained to me by Gov't
officials but I presumed they had acheck on the different men
and knew Yoshimoto to be O.K.
In August 1942- nine months after Pearl Harbor he was
placed in Internment.
Shortly thereafter a hearing was held
for him and I was invited to testify as to his character etc.
I attended this hearing held in the Brooklyn couthouse and
under the direction of the U.S.ttorney a r. Kennedy, but the
actual hearing by an Asst. U..Attorney a Mr. Silver and the
the entire Board and many F.B.I.Men.
Other witnesses in-
cluded Rev. Father Piecirillo Pastor of Church of St. Vincent
de Paul ( Catholic) 120 est 24th. St., N.Y. and Rev. Fr.
Jospe O'Meara of the Passionist Monastery at Jamaica L.I.
as well as a r. Doherty and Mr. Bonner both employees of
Hara & Co. for many years, and many others including Judge
Qua's sister a Miss Qua who had been Mr. Yoshimoto's English
teacher when he first arrived in the U.s. and friend of the family
all those years.
Appearing individually before this board in a seperate
room each told their story and answered questions and in my own
personall case I can reiterate that the same lar. Silver's
insinuations and what I considered insulting questioning was
highly out of place- I being a Vet of World War 1 in the Navy
Flying Corp. Regardless Lr. Y. was placed in internment at
Ellis Island. I do know that in answer to the question to the
effect " Who did he want to see win the War" his reply was"he
wanted to see a Just Peace."
The Maryknoll Fathers became interested in his case,
hoping to assist in obtaining his release. At this point I came
into contact with one of the Fathers who suggested that if I wished
to assist our Governments cause he would put me in touch with the
proper parties as he had a plan that a man of Yoshimoto's type
could be used to assist. Thus I called at the office of the F.B.I.
in New York and talked with Iir. McNamara. From that point I
saw Mr. Yoshimoto at Ellis Island but I knew that as he was not
a member of the Shinto religion he could not"be inon any secrets
or plans of sabotage or other Un-American activities. This proved
to be the case and so tackled another angge.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
Oct. 26, 1945.
Mr. Gay 3
Mr. Y. had a brother a Music critic of high standing
in Japan and a sister who some years ago married a young Army
Lieut. The sister had a daughter and this daughter was married
to Premier Tojo's son. It was for this reason that Yoshimoto
was interned,I have been given to understand, although I believe
he had met Tojo but the once and of course as he did not visit
Japan for many many years except on the 1939 occassion was di6-
connected from the Japans Political affairs and insisted that
he stay so, believing the American Democracy.
I was advised that a Japanese by the name of Noda
who was in internment had stated that Yoshimoto was dangerous,
believing that he would gain his own release by giving such
information. He did gain his release but Mr. Noda was soon
back in internment camp. He had been the Head of the Japan
Cotton Co., in N.Y.City and married to an American woman., and
I personally had never met him, but had heard some very dis-
paraging statements made regarding him. He also sailed back on
the Gripsholm Sept.2.1943 and it was only this week that a
friend of mine told me he was in Tokio and in some way connected
with Col. Kramers activities in the Economic and Stientific
Division.
From what I know it should be Mr. Yoshimoto that
should be assisting in that department and no Japanese who had
144
been under the clouds as ascertained by the F.B.I.
During Yoshimoto's internment I saw him a several
occassions and as the Japanese Government had placed his name
on the List to be repatriated- it was my assignment to work on
him and extract the promise that he would do what he could on
his return to Japan to assist in getting relief for Americans.
This promise I did extract from him as well as his wife- be-
lieving he could approach Tojo and thus use his great ability
and influence along this line.
of course he did not know
what I was doing when I was obteining for him special favors-
from the Dept' of Justice ( r. Edward Innis) such as keeping him
in the ast when all other Japs were sent from Ft. eade to
Montana.
Getting his transfer to Ft. Howard where his children
could visit him- transfer to llis Island where his wife could
visit each week and bring hin food and vitamins, returning home
a few days before he sailed to pack etc. But it worked as attested
by his desire that I notify The ept of Justice- the Nathonal
Catholic Welfare Conference and the Maryknoll Fathers how much
he appreciated their actions in making his life eesier and his
wife's position more tolerable. Particularly the Dep't of Justice
were to thanked for the fine treatment he received. This of
course was executed.
I had been further advised that his rarole was
possible if he remained here- but he could not in view of the fact
his name had been placed on the Jap list to be exchanged for some
prominent American. He was not well from Internment and so his
wife insisted on going with him and taking the two girls.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
BILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
Oct. 26, 1945.
Mr. Gay #4.
I once asked Father Piccirillo who was the family
religious adviser and who heard the confessions of Mr.Y.,
as part of his religious duties- whether he believed that Mr.
Y was as good a man as I believed him to be. His reply was that
this man was an exceptionally fine clean man of the highest
character and many other nice statements. He further took
a deep interest in the welfare of the American Girls and Men who
worked under him as to their home life and morals and was deeply
respected by all who came in contact with him. I know for I
sat in on many many conferences with him and the Top Owners of
most of the Rayon Pulp manufacturers in the U.S. and Canada.
I also know that the Owners of Silk Stocking Lills throughout
the country highly respected him. His conecctions abroad with
native firms in Brazil, Australia, France and many other countries
were with only the highest thought of firms in business Inter-
national circles.
Just recently since I returned from Waahington I
learned from a buy who was with the army of Occupation in Japan
that he had met them anā that they had been bombed from their
home in Yokohama and lost everything but uninjured and alive.
That it was the only thing in that strange land that reminded
him of home was the Yoshimoto's. That they wished to let me know
they were alive but much aged as to be expected and hoped for
better times.
There is of course much more to be said regarding this
man but it is all good and unnecessary.
I believe that our
Economic and Scientif Divission should be able to place him in
a position of Trust in their program. He is the most brilliant
business man I have ever had dealings with and as his firm
in N.Y., handled approx. 25% of all the Raw Silk that entered the
U.S., should be extremely valueable to our forces at Tokio.
Tith a man of his type there- a Buyer here could depend on any
statment of quality of €oods that he should stamp on a shipment.
hereas with some Japanese men- it is doubtful whether they
would perform so honestly. On this basis I believe it is almost
an essential that our Gov't should check into this subject by
first contacting Dep't of Justice eiether Mr. Ennis Director or
ir. Gitlan his assitant to confirm his record. I note that
Silk is to become the leading product to be shipped here in
exchange for foods and thus I think Gen. McArthur or his
Asst. Col. Kramer should be cabled advising of Yoshimoto, if you
find the man from the records to be all I have found out about
him.
I have been unable to find out if he carried out his
promise to get relief to Americans after his return to Japan abt
December 1943- but from my readings I think Prisoners fared a
little better in 44 and 45 than previously. I shall be glad to give
any further information so desired and trust this is haipful.
Excuse typing as it
Yours very truly
(Lamiel liu
is my own.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
Reli
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
EB131946
November 1, 1945
SUBJECT:
Ceiling Price for Silk Purchased in Italy or Japan.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Acheson
Congressman Flood
Kr. Magruder(?)
Mr. Thorpe
894.6
Mr. Kennedy
Mr. Martin
Ir. Borton
COPIES TO:
1
(17
1.1
5
13
OPO
1-1403
Con ressman Flood and Mr. Maeruderf?) were primarily
4
interested in breaking down the present OPa ceiling price
97
of 33. 08 per pound in silk in view of the impossibility
of obtaining silk at that orice in inflationary countries
such as Italy and Japan, pointing out that it would be
to our interest to start the development of exports in
these countries to prevent our having to sen? them re-
lief later. They suggested the possibility of an inter-
ratlonal conference to settle the matter, to which sug-
restion Fr. Acheson took violent xcestion.
kr. Acheson felt the problem was primarily an American
one and thet the cconomie offices should work out with OPA
and Commerce (former interdepartiental meetinrs apparently
having rotten nowhere on the matter of a ceiling price)
3
a methos whereby the present price of $3.08 would be
f
raised in Italy until it was found the Italians were will-
in? to sell. This price could then be adjusted to meet the
6
S,
particular situation in Jacan and be used there. Mr. Thorpe
55211
Will apearently work on the problem.
Comment: I saw no political objections to the proposed
口
plan es we are anxious to have the Jap nese economy put on 
1
a self-supporting basis as soon as possible.
Coneressman Flood is anxious to have Vr. Hafrudar)
f
so to Japan. As the Army has already asked kr. Jerle to go
for them, it woula seem to be a matter for the Army to decide.
4
HB
JA:HBorton:mp

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
Releioms
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TA.NVSaton
Memorandum of Conversation
SUBJECT:
Restoration of Japanese Silk Trade
Congresman Daniel J. Flood,
PARTICIPANTS:
ür. Peter Frederiek Magegma, silk Throwster
Mr. Jerle, Silk Imperter
ur. Asheson, U
Mr. Therp, A-0
Yr. Borton, JA
Mr. Martin, JK
Ur. Cale, IR
Coples to:
U
A-C
ITP
JA
JX
Congressmen Flood referred to the fast that raw silk has
1-1488
finally been removed from priee pontrol by the OrA and ex-
pressed nis appresiation for the part played by the Department
in bringing about this eotlon.
Mr. Acheson inquired conceraing the effeet of the metiem
on silk. Mr. Magagna replied that it would help restere the
Japanece economy. He alse sald that silk is likely for a.
time to sell at prises from t8 to $l4 per pound dopemding
upon quelity, that iss principal use is likely te be im
lumury produets, and that. after conditions become mere mesmal
In the silk industry the priee may be redused to an average
of about £s per pound.
Songreaanan Flcod pointed out that the Civilian Affairs
sestion of the Army is interested in the rehabilitation of the
Japanese silk anduetry and had aaked Mr. Magegna and Mr. Jerle
to go to Japan to assist in the rehabilitetlon program.
Mr. Jerle, he said, is unable to go but Mr. Magagma is
going. r. Magagnm said thet going to Japan for the Army
would involve a anerafice on his part sinee he would have
to put hie own business aside while working for the Army.
Congreasman Flood

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
Gongresman Flood stated that Mr. Magagna planned to Leave
for Japan in the very mear future and that the meeting with
Ér. Ashecon had been requested beeause he (Gongressman Fleed)
wanted the Department to kaow who Mr. Magages is and what he
plans to de. Congressman Flood indieated that he expests
the Department to take am interest im the work Mr. Magagea will
be doing in Japan, that he felt the work should met be the
sole responsibility of the Army, and that Mr. Magagma weuld
need the Department's blessing in his work. Mr. Aakesca replied
that everyone going to Japan to do work of the type Kr. Magagma
will be doing has to be on General Masarthur's staff.
Mr. Magagna again referred to the saeráfice he 1s making
in going to Japan and sald that he would have to reseive the
cooperation of everyone, if his work is to be successful.
Mr. Aaheson replied that he was sure it would be very helpful
to the Army to have Mr. Magagna working on the restoration of
the Japenese eilk induetry.
Congresaman Flood and Mr. Magagna indioated that they
felt it would be desirable to have Mr. Jerle, rather than
the Uscc, arrange for the distribution of siik smong users
within the United States. They expressed strong opposition
to having the ailk sold at auetion, stating that this would
lead to speoulutlon, rising prices and to silk being kept out
of the hanus of legitiwate users by apesulatore. Mr. Magagma
stresse the ability and experience of his "associate"
Mr. Jerle. Congressman Flood stated that Mr. Jerle imported
80 percent of the Japanese silk imported by Amerlean importers
prior to the war. (It later developed that Ameriean importers
imported only 30 peroent of the Japanese silk eoneumed in the
United states prior to the war, the other 70 peroent being
imported by Japanese interests.)
Mr. Thorp maid thnt the UsCc tas been nsked by the Depart-
ment to assume responsibility for the restoration of Japanese
foreign trade, pending such time as it is possible for private
industry to take over. He pointed out that the UsCC is to
buy and distribute mot only silk but other Japanese produets
as well. He also indioated that it would not be proper for
ur. Jerle to be reeponsible for the alloontion of Japanese
silk within the United States, since other 1mporters are slso
interested.
(Beoaune of

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
3
(Because of a provious appointment Mr. Aehesen
and Mr. Thorp were umable to sontimue partieipatien
in the convereation. At their suggestios, the remain-
ing partieipants contimued the conversatien. Messrs.
Jerle and Martin, who until this time had not been
present, joined the meeting when it was resumed.)
Gongressman Flood infermed ßr. Jerle of the pre-
vious meeting in Mr. Aahesen's effiee, stating that
ür. Aehesen had been requested to give Mr. Magagma's
trip to Japan his blessing and had done se. He said
that the question of the distribution of Japamese
silk within the United States had been under dissussion
when the meeting was diseontimued. Both he and Mr.
Kagagna expressed strong epposition to distribution
er the silk by USCC. They alleged that UsCC pereonnel
lacksd experiencs an: would not aet with sufficient
dispateh. They also 1m lied very strongly that Usdc's
method of disposing of the silk would be by publie
auetion whioh would, they said, deliver the silk business
into the hands of speculators.
Mr. Martin stated that the Department 1s mainly
interested in two matters concerning the distribution
of Japanese silk, namely, allecation of the silk mmong
gountries and the priee at whioh it is to be seld. He
sald that the Department would look to the Usoc to
allocate the silk within the United States. Congressman
Flood said that the Department should also have an
interest in the way in which the silk is alloeated
within the United States, sinee it in possible to handle
the alloeatlons in suoh a way as to interfere with the
amooth flow of silk to this country and to hamper the
restoration of the Japanese silk industry and of the
silk using industries within the United States. Mr.
Martin replied that the Department 1s interested in
the restoration of the Japanese silk industry in sueh a
way that it will be a continuing induatry mnd that he
would be glae to indioate to the UsCC that the Depart-
ment wished to have silk distributed in this eountry
in such a way as to contribute to this objeetive.
Congressman Flood stated thet he felt this was a much
as could be expected of the Department at thie time.
kr. Jerlo

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
0
0
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
P
Y
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
November 1, 1945
SUBJECT:
Ceiling Price for Silk Purohased in Italy or Japan
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Acheson
Congressman Flood
Nr. Magagna
Mr. Thorpe
Mr. Kennedy
Mr. Martin
Mr. Borton
COPIES TO:
J. C. Vincent
894.
W. T. Turner
σ
5
9
1-1408
2
Congressman Flood and Mr. Magagna were primarily
interested in breaking down the present OPA oeiling price
of $3. 08 per pound in siik in view of the impossibility
1
of obtaining silk at that prioe in inflationary countries
such as Italy and Japan, pointing out that it would be
4
to our interest to start the development of exports in
5
these countries to prevent our having to send them re-
lief later. They suggested the possibility of an inter-
national conference to settle the matter, to whioh sug-
gestion Mr. Aoheson took violent exoeption.
Mr. Aoheson felt the problem was primar1ly an Amerioan
one and that the economic ofrices should work out with OPA
and Commeroe (former interdepartmental meetings apparently
C
having gotten nowhere on the matter of a oeiling prioe)
S
a method whereby the present price of $3.08 would be
raised in Italy until it was found the Italians were will-
ing to sell. This price could then be adjusted to meet the C
particular situation in Japan and be used there. Mr. Thorpe
will apparently work on the problem.
Comment: I saw no politioal objeotions to the proposed
plan as we are anxious to have the Japanese economy put o
a self-supporting basis as soon as possible.
Congressman Flood is anxious to have Mr. Magagna
go to Japan. As the Army has already asked Mr. Jerle to go
for them, it would seem to be a matter for the Army to deoide.
JA:HBorton:mp

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
HTP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE1 - 1946
De, fite
fee
DATE: Friday, January 18,
1946
SUBJECT:
Restoration of Japanese Silk Trade
Congressman Daniel J. Flood,
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Peter Frederick Magagna, Silk Throwster
Mr. Jerle, Silk Importer
Mr. Acheson, U
Mr. Thorp, A-C
Mr. Borton, JA
ABSISTANT SECHETARY
894.655
Mr. Martin, JK
W. L. CLAYTON
XCOPIRSKIOK
Mr. Cale, IR
Copies to:
U
POLGY
JAN3 1 1946
A-C
AA-C
ITP
JA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
JK
it
Congressman Flood referred to the fact that raw silk has
1-1498
finally been removed from price control by the OPA and ex-
1
pressed his appreciation for the part played by the Department
0
in bringing about this action.
4
9
Mr. Acheson inquired concerning the effect of the action
on silk. Mr. Magagna replied that it would help restore the
Japanese economy. He also said that silk is likely for a
time to sell at prices from $8 to $14 per pound depending
upon quality, that its principal use is likely to be in
luxury products, and that after conditions become more normal
S
in the silk industry the price may be reduced to an average
of about $6 per pound.
Congressman Flood pointed out that the Civilian Affairs
section of the Army is interested in the rehabilitation of the
Japanese silk industry and had asked Mr. Magagna and Mr. Jerle
to go to Japan to assist in the rehabilitation program.
Mr. Jerle, he said, is unable to go but Mr. Magagna is
going. Mr. Magagna said that going to Japan for the Army
would involve a sacrafice on his part since he would have
to put his own business aside while working for the Army.
DCR
Congressman Flood
. it
t
1,+
la1.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Congressman Flood stated that Mr. Magagna planned to leave
for Japan in the very near future and that the meeting with
Mr. Acheson had been requested because he (Congressman Flood)
wanted the Department to know who Mr. Magagna is and what he
plans to do. Congressman Flood indicated that he expects
the Department to take an interest in the wort Mr. Magagna will
be doing in Japan, that he felt the work should not be the
sole responsibility of the Army, and that Mr. Magagna would
need the Department's blessing in his work. Mr. Aoheson replied
that everyone going to Japan to do work of the type Mr. Magagna 
will be doing has to be on General MacArthur's staff.
Mr. Magagna again referred to the sacrafice he is making
in going to Japan and said that he would have to receive the
cooperation of everyone, if his work is to be successful..
Mr. Acheson replied that he was sure it would be very helpful
to the Army to have Mr. Magagna working on the restoration of
the Japanese silk inaustry.
Congresseman Flood and Mr. Magagna indicated that they
felt it would be desirable to have Mr. Jerle, rather than
the UsCC, arrange for the distribution of siik among users
within the United States. They expressed strong opposition
to having the silk sold at auction, stating that this would
lead to speculation, rising prices and to silk being kept out
of the hands of legitimate users by speculators. Mr. Magagna
stressed the ability and experience of his "associate"
Mr. Jerle. Congressman Flood stated that Mr. Jerle imported
80 percent of the Japanese silk imported by American importers
prior to the war. (It later developed that American importers
imported only 30 peroent of the Japanese silk consumed in the
United States prior to the war, the other 70 percent being
imported by Japanese interests.)
Mr. Thorp said that the USCC has been asked by the Depart-
ment to assume responsibility for the restoration of Japanese
foreign trade, pending such time as it is possible for private
industry to take over. He pointed out that the USsCC is to
buy and distribute not only silk but other Japanese products
as well. He also indicated that it would not be proper for
Mr. Jerle to be responsible for the allocation of Japanese
silk within the United States, since other importers are also
interested.
(Beoause of

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
(Because of a previous appointment Mr. Aoheson
and Mr. Thorp were unable to continue participation
in the conversation. At their suggestion, the remain-
ing participants continued the conversation. Messrs.
Jerle and Martin, who until this time had not been
present, joined the meeting when it was resumed.)
Congreseman Flood informed Mr. Jerle of the pre-
vious meeting in Mr. Acheson's office, stating that
Mr. Acheson had been requested to give Mr. Magagna's
trip to Japan his blessing and had done so. He said
that the question of the distribution of Japanese
silk within the United States had been under disgussion
when the meeting was discontinued. Both he and Mr.
Magagne expressed strong opposition to distribution
of the silk by USCC. They alleged that USCC personnel
lacked experience and would not act with sufficient
dispatch. They also implied very strongly that USCC's
method of disposing of the silk would be by publio
auction which would, they said, deliver the silk business
into the hands of speculators.
Mr. Martin stated that the Department is mainly
interested in two matters concerning the distribution
of Japanese silk, namely, allocation of the silk among
countries and the price at which it is to be sold. He
said that the Department would look to the UscC to
allocate the silk within the United States. Congressman
Flood said that the Department should also have an
interest in the way in which the silk 1s allocated
within the United States, since it is possible to handle
the allocations in such a way as to interfere with the
smooth flow of silk to this country and to hamper the
restoration of the Japanese silk industry and of the
silk using industries within the United States. Mr.
Martin replied that the Department is interested in
the restoration of the Japanese silk industry in such a
way that it will be a continuing inaustry and that he
would be glad to indicate to the UsCC that the Depart-
ment wished to have silk distributed in this country
in such a way as to contribute to this objective.
Congressman Flood stated that he felt this was a much
as could be expected of the Department at this time.
Mr. Jerle

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Mr. Jerle described his own experience in the silk
industry and said that it had led him to the conolusion,
notwithstanding his own inclinations to the contrary,
that it would be preferable from now on for silk to sell
at a controlled price.
Mr. Cale inquired whether or not Mr. Jerle knew
what method USCC proposed to use in selling and alloca-
ting silk and received a negative reply. Mr. Cale then
pointed out that the Government had had very considerable
experience in allocating short supply commodities during
the war and that the basis of allocation among users has
generally been the user's share in the business during
a previous representative period. He cited tea as an
example of a commodity which has been purchased by USCC
and so allocated. Congressman Flood indicated that he
felt that allocation on the basis of past participation
in the business would be fair for silk.
Mr. Borton suggested that Congressman Flood, Mr.
Magagna and Mr. Jerle take up with the USCC their views
as to the best method of allocating Japanese silk within
the United States. They agreed to do so. Mr. Borton
said that the Department would go ahead and signify to
the USCC our interest in the restoration of the Japanese
silk industry on a continuing basis, as suggested earlier
by Mr. Martin.
Eye
IR:EGCale:mco
1-22-46

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL POLICY AND AGREEMENTS
11/6/45
Dan Mahoney, Boston, called Mr. Gay and
referred to the two letters he had
written to Mr. Gay re going over to
Japan to do business. He inquired as
to whether passports were being issued
at this time--said he thought he had
seen something in the papers to the
effect that trade might be open soon.
Mr. Gay replied that as far as he knew
this was not so and that he did not think
there would be anything open for sometime.
Mr. Mahoney wanted to know whether that
information would come to this Department,
and ifso, he would appreciate receiving
the information when available. Mr. Gay
told that we would know about it and that
he would let him know asx soon as he finds
out about it. Mr. Mahoney then said he
had a plan in mind and will outline it
in a letter. He also mentioned that he
will call Mr. Gay in the event that he
comes to Washington. Mr. Mahoney also
inquired as to getting into China to do
business. Mr. Gay replied that that
is a different situation.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
66
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
CABLE ADDRESS
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
February 5, 1946.
Mr. Merrill C.Gay,
Dep't of State,
Commercial Policy Div.,
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Gay:
I was very pleased to receive your informative
letter of the 3lst., and your kind invitation to " drop in
again," when I am in Washington. Actually I have made
several trips there in recent months and since my visit to
you and have been reluctant to impose on your time. How-
ever I shall definetly accept your suggestion on my next
trip.
I am enclosing herewith a recopy of a self ex-
planatory letter sent to Mr. Schieck regarding my desires.,
as to the Silk Importations. Last week on the 3lst., I spent
about one hour discussing this business with Mr. Peter McDer-
mott, Chief of Materials Division of U S C C., in the morn-
ing, at which time he advised there was to be a meeting at
2:30 that afternoon, regarding the entire status. I deducted
it was held and that USCc was confirmed as the Handling
Agency at that meeting.
However my discussion with Mr. McDermott while
2
of the most friendly nature as man to man and every possible
-546
courtesy was shown to me; left me with a very limp feeling of
helplessness, in that actually our talk wa;as the Government
versus Mahoney representing business. While he could not
say Officially at that time, the USCc was going in to the Silk
business to the obliteration of Prewar Silk Business men,
nonetheless this appeared as the program and later was con-
firmed in the Newspapers. In other words the Silk to be
imported was to be assigned to the USCC and they in turn be-
come the marketing, distributing and merchandising machinery
on a sealed-bid basis.
This proceedure unquestionably eliminates the
International business man not only on this article but any
other commodity involved and certainly is rebuilding the
Foreign Trading nations which eventually will pulverize the
inexperienced corp of Government Traders untrained to this
career.
Thus my"limp feeling" of helplessness. It
promises to be a calamity to our International business
future, if continued and the trained men are stifled and
either drift into the boiling pot or join foreign national
organizations.
The arguments advanced to substantiate
the USCC proceedure naturally pall into insignificance when
weighed against the future of our trade.
The picture is
extremely disturbing from a selfish International and personal
standpoint.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
Feb.5, 1946.
Mr. Merrill C.Gay #2.
I am now in a baautiful position to parti-
cipate in the Silk picture as well as other Fibres and
porduots from the Orient.
My new associates, well
experienced in International dealings contain one American
citizen of Chinese ancestry well connected in China, there
being a total of five of us, who have pooled our resources
with the firm conviction of not only helping ourselves
but the national welfare as well.
I might add that outside
of myself,the other associates belong to that class of
financial independents;but imbibed with the spirit of progress
and helpfulness to others.
So that I am doubly anxious
to see this unfair situation righted as soon as possible.
I trust Gen. McArthur's staff have adopted your
departments suggestion that they utilize the services of
Mr. Shunosuke Yoshimoto in purchasing Raw Silk for our
Army as I am certain they will receive the utmost cooperation
and sincere efforts of this specialist.
I have received
word from an American soldier indirectly that he had visited
Mr. Yoshimoto, his wife and two American daughters and
had his only real liking for Japan through this visit.
Therefore with all the above on my mind you
can undoubtedly see that I am ready to grasp at any straw
that will lead to a solution and hope to see you soon and
take advantage of your invitation not only along this line
but from a personal desire to renew and add to our previous
discussion of International affairs so vital to our mutual
interests.
With best personal regards, I am,
Very sincerely
DexnicelMalioney.
DJM:n

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
DANIEL J. MAHONEY
SILK - RAYON - WOOL
CABLE ADDRESS
WOODPULP
246 SUMMER STREET
MAHONFIBRE
BOSTON
RE-COPY
KCOPY
Jan 21, 1946
Mr. DeWitt C. Schieck, President
U.S. Commercial Co
Temporary U Buialing
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Schieck:
I note by the news in the "Journal of Commerce", that
6l00 Bales of Raw Silk have been declared Exportable,
having been approved by the U S authorities, from Japan
and is merely awaiting Jashington approval.
You will recall on my recent visit to you at your office,
I advanced the proposition that I should desire to participate
in the marketing of any Raw Silk that would be forthcoming
from Japan and to the U.S. Commercial Company. As an officer
in the Universal Cormodities Corporation, an organization of
Boston business men, I have at my command the entire re-
sources necessary to properly merchandize and handle the
entire future shipments of this commodity to be hanaled
through the Government channels.
The financial position of this group is such that all
necessary funds are available and warehousing spaces are con-
trolled so that these two vital conditions can be met. How-
ever I believe the most important asset for successfully
marketing this product is the executive selling and manipu-
lation of the Market, by experienced personnel. For this
department I have my past performances and connection for a
recommendation and also have available the services of two
Top Silk men formerly associated with a Japanese Importer,
for whom I was Agent; namely Hara & Co., 1 Park Ave., New
York, one of the very few firms (Japanese) that was given
a clean bill by our Government after investigation and ex-
amination of their books following Pearl Harbor. Both of
these men have had at least 25 years Raw Silk selling and
marketing experience.
Conducting my own business since May 1922, my connections
briefly: American Agent for Raimondo Buratti, Biella, Italy
(Rayon and Silk),-1926-1935; For J. Hopf, Basle, Switzerland
1935-1939. Hara & Co, Yokohama and N.Y. 1936-1941. Have
negotiatèd purchase Silk Cartridge Cloth -lt million yds- for
Canadian Gov't Dept of Munitions and Supplies and purchased
Silk Noils for their consumption 6/700,000 Lbs 1941-42.
Also extensive Domestic business with American Silk Mills.
Having in mind handling this Raw Silk merchandizing on
a commission basis for the U S C C on a similar asis as

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
PECOPY
Mr. Schieck
-2-
Jan 21, 1946
Iceland Wools and Turkish Mohair is handled by experienced
Dealers and the fact that I am a Pre-war established Silk
man of which there are few-(Mostly Jap pre-war), I there-
fore submit this proposition for your consideration.
When I talked with you in Washington you mentioned
that you probably would be away from Feb lst to March lst,
that I could discuss this proposition further in yourab-
sence with Mr. McDermott. As I am quite anxious to go in
to any and all details regarding this matter with your
company at any time, I would appreciate your advising me
as to when a suftable time might be arranged in Washington
as I am prepared to visit you or Mr. McDermott at any time.
Inasmuch as the Government pelicy has been to promote
business to reconversion and I am equally anxious to re-
convert to this trade, cut off by the War, I trust this
plan outlined will have the consideration I am certain is
so essential to our economic well-being both at home and
in our Internation relations.
Thanking you for the courtesy shown me on my recent
visit and trusting that my proposition may have the
proper consideration and awaiting further word from you,
I am,
Yours very truly,
/s/ Daniel J. Mahoney
DJM;n

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
Collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
an
Charge Department:
CONFIDENTIAL
ace
Washington
Charge to
1302
FEB6
1946
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
11
TOKYO.
894.6552/2-646
FOR THE ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
The DEPT of State forwarded the name of Mr. Peter
Frederick Magagna to the War DEPT for their considera-
tion in selecting an expert on silk to act as consultant
to SCAP on the rehabilitation of the silk industry in
Japan. Mr. Magagna has been employed by the War DEPT
for this task and is expected to leave for Tokyo
Feb 7. Copies of memoranda of conversation between
Congressman Daniel Flood and Magagna and the Under
Secretary are being forwarded to you by pouch for your
0
information. Any assistance you can appropriately
render Mr. Magagna will be appreciated.
By
CENTR
a
DIVISION OF
REGEIVED
2
1946
JA:HBorton:mls
FE
U
2-6-46

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.92)
daj
ts
FFR1
CONFIDENTIAL
No. 87
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser to
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the Department'
telegram No. 129 of February 6, 1946 to Tokyo with
O7
regard to the departure for Tokyo of Mr. Magagna,
a War Department employee who 1s to aot as con-
sultant to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers on the rehabilitation of the silk industry
in Japan. Copies of memoranda of conversation
between Congressman Daniel Flood, Mr. Magagna and
the Under Seoretary of State are forwarded herewith
for the information of the United States Politioal
Adviser.
Enclosures:
U,
Memoranda of conversation:
C
1. Ceiling Prioe for Silk
Purohased in Italy or Japan.
2.
Restoration of Japanese
2
FEB
12 1946P.M.3
Silk Trade, January 18, 1946.
JK
C
JA: GWBraner: mp
2-8-46
FE
KQ
C

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
In reply refer to
JK
My dear ür. Sehieak:
At the request of the Department of State, the U. S. Commereial
Company has assumed responsibility for handling imports of raw silk
from Japan to the United States and for their sale in this country.
994.655
It now appears that substantial quantities may be available in the
not too distant future.
Raw silk is one of the few exports available to Japan which is
dependent neither on import of raw materials nor on faeilities whieh
present security problems, or may be claimed for reparations.
C.
It is highly desirable from the standpoint of United States poliey,
therefore, that a relatively permanent market be established for
Japanese silk in this country. It is the hope of the Department of
State that whatever sales arrangements may be made fully take into
0
consideration the need for a permanent market.
It is assumed that in making out a distribution poliey which
will contribute to this end, consultation will be held with representa-
tives of the various elements in the silk industry in thid country
and with other experts in this Pield.
qincerely yours,
in
(i
tev
John Kenneth Galbraith
894.6552
Directop.,
Jat
Office of Economic Security Policy.
Mr. DeWitt C. Sehieck,
U. S. Commercial Company,
COR
Room 2063,
FEB
Temporary "U" Building,
1945P.
12th and Constitution Avenue, N. W.,
FE
Washington, D. C.
2-2146
FEL
JKRHhitman:aw
1-30-46
IR
CF
JA

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
ORoR
BUY
U.S. COMMERCIAL COMPANY
811 VERMONT AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
MAR 7 - 1946
CABLE ADDRESS
"USCOMCO"
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
de ganed
MAR 1 11946
tile
Mr. John Kenneth Galbraith
Director
Office of Economic Security Policy
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.6552/3-746
Dear Mr. Galbraith:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of February 21
concerning the handling of imports of raw silk from Japan by
U.S. Commercial Company.
611.946
It has long been an underlying policy of the U.S.
Comnercial Company to discuss our mutual problems with repre-
sentatives of interested segments of industry so that normal
trade practices might be disrupted as little as possible and
so that trade might be restored to normal channels as soon as
possible upon the roturn of those conditions which will make
our further participation unnecessary.
The case of silk from Japan is no exception although,
of course, the problems inciaent to its proper importation and
equitable aistribution are much more complicated than those
attendant upon many other commouities which we have handled.
We have discussed those proolems on a numper of occasions with
representatives of the silk industry and you may be assured
894.6552
that we will continue to do so.
Sincerely yours,
C
S
DeWitt C. Schieck
/VJ
President
3-746

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
DANIEL J. FLOOD
COMMITTEE:
11TH DIST. PENNSYLVANIA
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
HOME OFFICE:
I0IS MINERS NATIONAL BANK
Congress of the United States
WILKES-BARRE, PIENNSYLVANIA
Douse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
March 29, 1946
Mr. Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese & Korean Economic Affairs
State Department
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Martin:
In view of the numerous discussions in which I have partici-
pated with the various governient agencies, including yourself, with refer-
ence to the problem of silk generally and of Japanese silk in particular,
and in view of the fact that at the time of the OPA discussions with
reference to exempting silk from price control, I had submitted, at the
request of the OPA, a memorandum on the subject. I now feel, in view of recent
developments, xperiences and circwastances, in addition to conversations
with leaders in the silx industry, that I should submit to you this memo-
894.6
randum.
anctin
I have expressed repeatedly a fear of the use of option for
the purpose of disposing of this Japanese silk if and wi.en it reaches the
United States. Some months ago, and until very recently, I felt my
5
position to be sound under all the prevailing circunstances.
5
52/3-2946
In view, however, of the circumstances as they now exist,
and recalling apon the recent experiences in the silk industry in ti is
country with reference to the silk that has veen recently handled from
China and a few other places, I find it mecessary to revise my statements
and in light of all these facts to present a new and different viewpoint
as follows:
With reference to the discussions we have had on the Japanese silk
situation, I have a number of thoughts and considerations which I
would like to lay before you as a guidance in considering the many
phases for the distribution of that silk.
Out of the welter of discussions with the War Department, State
Department and UScc, some facts shape up quite difinitely to indi-
CS/VJ
cate that at least for the time being and for some time to come,
the movement of silk from Japan to the American market must
necessarily follow a certain procedure.
We understand that the army in Japan receives the silk from a
1.
Central Japanese silk ass ciation Which has tested and warranted
the silk to be of a specific grade and size and suitable for export.
That the Army takes that delivery and brings it to the ship, at which
μ
3-294%

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
2
-2-
Mr. Edwin M. Martin
March 29, 1946
point the USCC will then take charge and see the silk landed at a
predetermined point in the United States, presumably the U. S.
Testing Company in Hoboken. That the USCC will then sell that
silk to the trade under certain conditions, which up to now have
not been defined or adopted. That the proceeds of the sale less
the expenses of USCC are then credited to some account of the
Government (most likely the War Department or one of its sub-
sidiaries) to be utilized for the purchase of essentials to
be shipped from this country to Japan.
It must be realized that under present conditions existing in
Japan and while the Army is in charge, this general procedure must
be accepted as the only feasible way.
The big question is how UScC will dispose of the silk because
under the system adopted will depend the re-establishment, under
a sound foundation, of a silk industry in the United States.
The problem here is not as simple as it was for the disposal of
the sur,lus stock of the war Assets Corporation, which was a one
shot affair and wi ich, unfortunate as it was in its method,
nevertheless can be passed over and forgotten.
The method adopted by USCC for the distribution and sale of silk
is indeed a most important and basic factor, the reprecussions from
which would continue to have their effect not only upon the industry
in the United States but also upon Japan's economy and, therefore,
upon the policies of the U. S. Aray in that occupicd country. It
cannot, therefore, be lightly undertaken, nor do I think it should
be considered on a basis of trying something for the sake of getting
started.
The best system, the desirable system, the system most of the trade
would like to see adopted, has been and still is for a fixed price
good for one year, reached by international agreement of representa-
tives of governments and industries concerned, and distribution by
dealers expert in the trade on a commission basis. Dealers who can
finance goodly quantities, order ahead specific qualities and sizes
corresponding to trade wants, carry stocks of raw silks in New York
and service the trade in its many vrieties, peculiar requirements
and preferences; advance deliveries, postpone them, make exchanges,
go into long commitments, grant credit facilities and thus facilitate,
ease, encourage the use of siik in every avenue of manufacture.
Some people have too long confused this type of trade and service
organization with the gamble or speculation occasionally indulged by
outsiders.
The Governaent Agency counters that to fix a price today is not
feasible; that an international agreeaent would be a slow procedure
to arrive at; that the Agency cannot set an arbitrary price because
subject to criticism and challenge at one or more points.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. Edwin M. Martin
-3-
March 29, 1946
This is true enough and while recognizing the fact we must, while
not abandoning the ideal, come to the only other practical solution
for the moment. Let the trade and industry say what the price should
be.
Two methods are open - The sealed bid method; the open auction method.
Having seen the results of the sealed bid method in the recent surplus
sale with its extremes of prices and heard the justified criticism,
we can come to the conclusion that the open auction is the only
feasible thing to adopt. These buyers face eadh other and with full
knowledge of what is going on, make their bids.
The mechanics of this are available to the USCC at a moment's notice.
The Silk Section of the Commodity change, Inc., is prepared to go
into action upon reguest and, for a small fee to cover expenses, can
render USCC a great service: assume responsibilities, police, so to say,
the distribution to strictly trade channels, conduct periodic auctions
in its own establishment admirably suited for the purpose and, through
its clearing house, bill, accept payment for account of UScC, and
deliver to the buyer. Having established and accepted quality standards
it can set methods, restrictions and regulations in accord with USCC,
and I can assure you of a smooth and satisfactory performance. It
would relieve USCC of one big headache.
If this is accepted in principle, the details of a program to follow can
be easily andquickly established.
I now hope that this idea can be put across to USCC. It is my
sincere conviction that UScC should grab at it. If they do not, then the
chances are the leading minds of the silk industry to whom we must all look
for a renaissance of the silk in this country, will hibernate while the wreck
and ruin goes on.
There is a great deal more could be said on this subject as to
the details; but it would be useless in this memorandum at this time to dis-
cuss these details unless first the principle of the open auction is
accepted, but predicated upon the principle submitted here and above.
For instance, to sell at auction would be advisable only when at least 10,000
bales are available here in this country. I might add further that only
bona fide silk people should be permitted to participate in the bidding.
Further, the government and the trade should establish some maximum quantity
and quantity should be kept flexible enough in order that the USCC would
get the most out of the auction. These last two or three factors Imention
only to point out that considerable more is to be said on the details of
this plan.
My association with you and your office on this entire problem
has been such that I felt sure you would welcome these suggestions.
Sincerely yours,
tandloed
Daniel. Flood, M.C.
DJF: jc

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
A121946
In reply refer to
JK
My dear ür. Flood:
This is in answer to your letter of Mareh 29, 1946, diseussing
the. problem of disposing of Japanese silk in the United States. I
understand that Mr. Acheson has answered a similar comunication and
I have nothing to add to his reply.
I wish to thank you, however, for keeping me in touch with
developments and you may be sure of my continued interest in the
development of a stable market for Japanese raw silk.
894.6552/3-2946
Sincerely yours,
Edwin M. Martin, Chief,
Division of Japanese and
Korean Economic Affairs.
The Honorable
Daniel J. Flood,
House of Representatives.
AFC
244.6552
CS/VJ
RM
:AHhhitman: aw
4-5-46
33
3-2946

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.89)
In reply refer to
JK.
894.6552/4-546
Hy dear Mr. Eirpalani:
The Government of India has expressod interost i. ob-
taining silk fabrios from Japan. As a result of inquiries
in Tokyo, we are i formed that there is now available for
export tne following:
"44/ 52,400 yards waite,
52/ 7,300 yarda mite,
62/1! 3,251,50 yards miite,
10u/ 3,103,500 yards white,
12k/: 1,365,750 yards white,
14k/1 1,429,3:0 yards wito,
19/ 95,050 yards white,
201/u 292,410 yards wito,
Lrevs twill 392,250 yards navy and reen,
losqu to net 3,243,650 yards reen and mite,
Total 23,238,60) yarda"
CS/VJ
If the Jovernmont of India is interested in obtaining
a.i or part of theso fabrios, the matter of price and metood
of payment can ve discussed at your convanience.
Sineerely yours,
.0
94.
idwin . Hartin, Chiof,
Livision of Japanese and
horpan Economic Affairs.
5
5
2
Ur. L.. Kirpalani,
Ph
C...C.L
India vovernment Trade Commissioner,
IR
CP
JA
5
630 Fifti Avenue,
R1n
 York 20, H.Y.
Hr30
K.piryhitmap.me
3122146

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.95)
05
1R
AMERICAN SILK COUNCIL, INC.
468 FOURTH AVENUE
Cr
NEW YORK 16, N. Y.
TELEPHONE
April 8, 1946
dear Mr. Secretary:
DEPA
Your Reference: JK
894.6552/4-846
With your letter of March 29, 1946, you have been
good enough to convey to us the text of a communication which the State
Department has directed to the USCC, in connection with the latter's
program of importing and distributing here raw silk originating in Japan.
The Silk Council not only appreciates the courtesy
which you have thus extended to it, but also views, with a great deal of
satisfaction and pleasure, the keen interest which the State Department
thus evidences in the entire program of reviving raw silk imports from
Japan and the emphasis which the State Department lays on the procedure
designed to be of the greatest benefit to the silk industry here and the
Japanese producers over there.
The Silk Council does wish that the matter were
entirely in the hands of the State Department, in which case, we are
sure, serious mistakes which the USCC persists in making, would be
avoided. As the matter stands now, it would appear, from a lengthy
meeting which we and other silk interests have had with officials of the
USCC, in the evening of April 4th, that the strenuous objections raised
by all of the people present and representing the industry, notwithstanding,
the USCC insists on distributing the silk by means of closed bids.
Again, my dear Mr. Secretary, we appreciate the
sincere interest and the understanding which you have evidenced in our
problem. If the USCC nevertheless wants to go its own way, then we can
only wish them luck and await the moment when they will mee the errors
rable damage has been done to the silk industry.
We are, dear Mr. Secretary,
2.046
CS
C4
AMERICAN SILK COUNCIL, ING
X
Hon. Dean Acheson
ident
-846
Acting Secretary
116
Department of State
APR 29 1946
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
DANIEL J. FLOOD
11T4 DiST. PENNSYLVANIA
COMMITTEE:
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
HOME OFFICE:
1015 MINERS NATIONAL BANK
Congress of the United States
WILKES-BARRE,PENNSYLVAMIA
Douse of Representatibes
DIYISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
Washington, D. C.
ECONPONC AFFAIRS
CEPARTRIENT OF STATE
April 11, 1946
APR 1 1946 R.A. e
Mr. Edwin H. Martin, Chiei
Division of Japanese & Korean Eronomic Affairs
State Department
Washinton, D.C.
My deur Mr. Martin:
894.6552/4-1146
I thought you migit be interested in the enclosed copy
of a letter received by me fro Mr. Charles B. Henderson, of the
United St bes Comercial Company, in answer to my incuiry of
Murch 9, 1946 havint to do with the disposal of Japanese raw
sil by the UScc.
A cory of my letter to the Uscc was forwarded to you
on Narch 29, 1946.
sineerely yours,
Hand Ifload
Daniel . Flood, M.C.
DJF: ah
Ficl.
CS/A
/4-1146

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
U. S. COMERCIAL COMPANY
811 Vermont Avenue, NW
Washington 25,D.C.
April 9, 1966
Honorable Daniel J. Flood
House Offiee Building
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Flood:
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of March 29, 1946 addressed to
Mr. DeWitt C. Soheck concerning the disposal of Japanese raw silk by U.S.
Commercial Company.
The procedure for disposing of this silk has been given the most careful
consideration and, while we agree that the sealed bid basis is probably not
the best basis for disposing of silk over a long period of time, we feel that
the circumstances which prevail today and which probably will continue in
effect for a little while bnger make the sealed bid basis preferable over the
open auction method. We believe that during this period of extreme shortages
it is encumbent upon us to obtain as wide a distribution as possible and to
give everyone an equal opportunity to purchase silk. We are in a much better
position on sealed bids to achieve this objective than we would be under the
open auction method.
We are remaining open-minded on the subject and the results of the sales
will be given careful consideration and as soon as it is apparent that some other
method of disposing of the silk should be adopted the change will be made.
With regard to your suggestion that silk be sold in 10,o00-bale lots, w
feel that, due to the critical shortage of silk in this country today and the
uncertainties of ship ing, etc., we should have our first sale as soon as we
have accumulated about 5,000 bales. We presently have 2,500 bales in this
country and we understand that an additional 5,c00 bales are now afloat. It
is presently contemplated that the bidding will be oponed to all. Tis 
believe necessary because of the difficulty of establishing qualifications
for bidding on any restricted basis and because we feel that there are many
persons, including former members of the armed services, who are interested in
etting into this business. The successful bidders will be allowed a minimm
of ten bales and a maximum to be set based upon the uantity of silk availablo
at the time of sale.
We very much appreciate your expressions and suggestions in this matter
and we want you to know that we are doing e verything  ossible to the best interest
of all concerned to handle this atter on a basis which will be fair to everyone.
With kind personal regards,
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Charles B. Henderson
CHAHLES B. HENDEPSON
Chairman of the Board

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
APP181946
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Sir Girju:
We understand that the Indian Gcvernment is interested in
securing silk piece goods from Japan. The following information as
to quantities and types of goods available has recently been received:
Grioge
Finished
94.6552/4-1846
Types of
No. of
No. of
piece goods
pieces
Yards
pieces
Yards
Garment lining
120,129
1,880,642
607,089
17,987,650
Habutae
291,044
7,520,588
839,724
25,635,386
Umbrella cloth
2,976
74,673
490,666
12,266,743
I would be interested to know as soon as possible whether the
Indian Government is interested in tnis merchandise.
Very sincerely yours,
Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese and
Korean Economic Affairs.
The Honorable
Sir Girja Shankar Bajpai,
K.C.S.I., K.B.E., C.I.E.,
CS/
Agent General for India.
ME
A
JK:RHWhitman:aw
4-10-46
(2
OR
APR 16
APR 18

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
BS DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
/EL
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: May 2, 1946
SuBJECT: Sales of Silk from Japan by United States Commercial Corporation (USCC)
PARTiciPANTs: Mr. Schieck, USCO; r. Edelman, Textile Workers of America;
Mr. Smith, Amorican Federation of Hosiery Workers; Mr. Lang,
President, FulI-Fashioned Hosiery Manufacturers Association;
894.6552/5-246
Ir. Kleinbard, Attorney for the Full-Fashioned Hosiery
Stete.
COPIES TO:
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
ITP - Mr. Wilcox
MAY 3 1946
ILH - Mr. ulliken
DEPAHTMENI OF STATE
OPO
1-1493
Upon invitation of John  delman, I went to lunch today at the
Paleigh Hotel with the above named people. The meeting had been
arranged by Kr. Edelman to give the union and manufacturing repre-
sentatives an opportunity to present their views to r. Schieck of
the USCC. Beginning very shortly, the USCC will be selling silk
from Japan and the arrangements have already been made for the first
811.5017
of these sales which will amount to about 5,O00 bales. The hosiery
people are disturbed about the method that the USCC will be using to
dispose of this silk, which is by sealed bids. The hosiery people
claim that t is leaves them at a serious disadvantage because they
CS/VJ
have no idea of a proper price for silk. They point out that before
the war they were using perhaps 90; silk. The method that the USCC
will be using will give the minority users an opportunity to buy up
a disproportionate amount of the supply. However, the hosiery people
agree that the use of nylon now makes the continued use of silk very
problematic, but despite this they do want to get as much silk as they
can because they feel that there will still be a profitable market for
stockings made of silk. They want the USCc to fix a price and then
allocate the supply among the purchasers. This is their first choice,
but if UsCc won't go along, as second choice they would be content-to
have the silk disposed of at open bids. ir. Schieck argued at some
length that the method the UScc had adopted was the best one under
all circumstances. He pointed out that UsCC had no past experience:
to go
5-246

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
to go on and that the method they had adopted of closed bids seemed to
be the method best calculated to get a proper price. He also said
that it was essential that the USCC secure an adequate price for the
silk because if they did not, it would be necessary for the American
taxpayer to finance the feeding of Japan. Also, if the price fixed
turned out to be too low, the American consumer would be imposed upon
because the manufacturers would not charge any less for their finished
products these days even if they got their silk at bargain prices.
Mr. Schieck said that during the next year the USCC would probably be
selling up to 120, 000 bales of silk, of which the first sale is about
to be made of approximately 5,000 bales. He thinks that after they
have had some experience in selling the first couple of lots, they
will be in a much better position to decide what method of disposing
of the silk is best. In other words, the closed bid method is regarded
as experimental and necessary in view of the lack of experience in
selling silk under present conditions. It may well be, ir. Schiack
says, that the USCC would adopt some other method if their experience
shows it to be desirable.
1w1t
ILH:THiolland:mmw

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
file
1800 K STREET, N. W., WASHINGTON 6, D. C.
TELEPHONE EXECUTIVE 2020
ese
BRITISH EMBASSY (RAW MATERIALS SECTION)
BRITISHxRAWoMATERIALSoMISSION
DIVISION OF KOREAN
May 13, 1946
no reply sent
Dear Mr. Whitman,
tile
JAPANESE SILK
May I confirm our telenhone conversation.
894.65
As I told you, we have received a telegram fron the Board of Trade
in which they suggest that in respect of the Japanese silk which will be shipped
to the U.K., H.M.G. would prefer to make payments after the shipments actually
received in the U.K. have been sorted into categories and graded by G.H. Heath
& Co. They suggest that the prices for the grades thus established should be
5
the sterling equivalent of the U.S. market prices prevailing for similar grades
5
of Jaoanese silk at the time the testing in the U.K. is completed by G.H. Heath
2
& Co. This vould mean that the U.K., like the U.S.A., will be paying for the
15
silk when it is directly available to consumers and should ensure thet the
markets in the two countries will be at the same level at the same time.
5-1346
You said that this method of pricing would be agreeable to the U.S.A.
provided you are able to asree to inspection in the U.K. by G.H. Heath & Co.
I understand that this last point is being discussed among the U.S.G. depart-
ments concerned and I hone th t you will be able to give us a definite answer
very soon.
The Board of Trade also referred to AG423 and enquired whether it
would be necessary for the U.K. to anpoint someone to take delivery in Japan
and arran,e consignment of the material to the U.K. and, if so, whether this
representative would need to be a government official or whether H.M.G. could
appoint a business firn (possibly Swiss) to act on their behalf. They also
asked through what channels U.K. demands should be put.
CS
You informed me that it would be necessary for the U.K. to have a
6/R
representative in Japan for this purpose but that there would be no objection
894.6552/5-1346
to H.M.G. being represented by a private firm provided that firm is officially
2
acting on behalf of H.M.G. You said that requirements should continue, for
the time being, to be placed with you through our Embassy here.
With regard to the detailed specifications requested by SCAP, you
said that there is no intention of holding uo shinments to any particular
country until full snecifications from ail claimant countries have been re-
ceived but that th: detailed specifications for the next 1? months have been
recuested in order to assist SCAP in planning Jananese production.
git
/The

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTINUATION
-2-
The Board of Trade have promised to cable further very shortly
the specifications for the first shipment to the U.K. of 300 bales. They
point out that U.K. consumption over the next 12 months is still very un-
certain owing to uncertain supplies of labour and they doubt whether they
will be able at this stage to give useful figures in detail. They have, how-
ever, promised to cable on this point as soon as possible.
I should be grateful if you will say whether I have set down correct-
ly the substance of our telephone conversation.
Yours sincerely,
Ot.on conmgeep
MMcD:ms
M. McDougall
Mr. R. Whitman,
State Department,
901 - 1818 "H" St. N.W.,
Washington, D.C.
cc: Mr. Everson
Mr. Christelow

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
DC/R
MAY 181016
In reply refer to
JK
ay dear ur. Sahieek:
I understand that the U.S. Commereial Coapany has received
inquiries from naticnals of other countries as to the possibili-
ties of purehasing and exporting Japanose silk to be offered at
894.6552/5-1846
auction by that company. The U.s. Commereial Company has asked
our guidanee as to the position to take with ragard to these
foreign purehasers.
The United States Government has tentatively proposed to
the membere of the Far Eastern Comslssion a plan for alloeating
Japanese silk to the prineipal pre-sar purahasers. If fimally
adopted, this plan would call for the follosing peresntege dis-
tribution of silk:
United States - 84.6
United Kingdom
France
British India
- 1.6
Australia
1.2
Total 100.0%
Sales would be made at the average United States price and the
silk probably would be picked up in Tokyo, exoept that France
CS/LF
may
r. D. C. Serioak,
U.S. Concereial Compary,
Temporary "T" Building,
14th and Constitutoion Avonue,
Washington, D. C.
/5-1846

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
may obtaia it in Nes Terk. Other eountries mhich formerly pare
sbased silk in the low Xark market rather than in Sakyee oooks
Ganada and posaibly Baiteeeland, are ast previded for la this
allesatiem preceduere.
It would not be ia asserd with U.s. comeeredal poliey to pere
veat foreigm parebasers from mequiring silk in the Bew York merkel,
unless export controls have been estahlished by the Departesnt of
Comseree on supply grounds. However, it should be poiated out to
prospeetive purahasers fron Franees and the Uni ted Kingdem, that
their countries will undoubtedly purebase silk direetly and thas
they might find it preferable to proeure their supplies from the
amounts allosated to their govermments. If it develeps that pur-
shases by non-United States interests are heavy, partieularly by
countries already recsiving allosations, it may be mesessary to
revise the allocation prosedure or take other steps to essure
oquitable distribution.
It is hoped that at a later date a completely free milk mer
ket ean be established both in Tokyo and in Mew York, parmitting
the abandonsent of all allooation proeedures.
Sinoerely youra,
Willam L. Clayten
Assistant Seeretary
R
10, 
JK:RHWhitman:lme
5-16-46

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
meat of Commeree on supply grownds. Hewever, it should be potated
out to prospective purchasere from Pranse and the United Kiagdem,
that their countries will undoubtedly purahase silk direetly and
that they might find it preferable to proeure their suppliss from
the amounts allocated to their governments. If it develeps that
purchases by non-United States intersste are heavy, partioularly by
countries already ressiving allcsations, it may be necessary to
revise the allocation procedure or take other steps to assure
equitable distribution.
It is hoped that at a later date a completely free silk market
can be established both in Tokyo and in New York, permitting the
ebandonment of all allocation procedures.
Sincerely yours,
Hillard A. Thorp,
Deputy to the Assistant Searetary
for Economic Affairs.
PN
1
K:RHWhitman:aw
4-25-46
IR
CP
ITF
MAY
omc6
8
1946r..

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
FOREST PRODUCTS
CABLE ADDRESS:
LUMBER
MATKER, SEATTLE
POLES AND PILING
BUILDING MATERIALS
TELEPHONE:
SENECA O777
PAPER
MATHEUS-KERRY COMPANY
PULP
TEXTILES
WHITE BUILDING
MACHINERY
SEATTLE, 1. WASHINGTON. U.S.A.
May 21, 1946
Mr. Ed Martin
Economic Division
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Martin:
On the l6th of May, I wired you as follows:
OUR AGENT FOR INDIA HAS CABLED US FOR A QUOTATION ON
894.6552/5-2146
JAPANESE VISCOSE RAYON YARNS AND JAPANESE RAW SILK
UNDERSTAND THESE ARE SOLD THRU OCCUPATION AUTHORITY
PLEASE WIRE PROCEDURE NECESSARY TO NEGOTIATE FOR
PURCHASE THESE MATERIALS FOR SHIPMENT FROM JAPAN
TO INDIA
We have not yet had a reply from you in regard to
this wire, and are anxiously awaiting information regarding
the procedure in purchasing rayons and silks from Japan for
shipment to other countries. If this is not in your depart
ment, would you please refer it to the proper authorities
so that we may be guided accordingly. We would appreciate
it if you would wire us collect. Mr. Cole of the International
Statistical Bureau referred you to us.
Very truly yours, 
MATHEUS-KERRY COMPANY
S
H
H. E. Kerry
HEK:ra
ON OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
EDCNOMIC AFFAIRS
JUN 7 1946
E8H
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FILED
AY 2 7 1946

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
254
PREPARING OFFICE WILL
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
WILL INDICATE WHITHER
Collect X
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Washington
Charge to
JUN 31546
MATHEUS-KERRY COMPANY
WHITE BUILDING
SEATTLE 1,WASHINGTON
894.6552/5-2146
Refer your wire and letter recent dates inquiring procedure for
Indian purchasers negotiate purchase Japanese rayon yarns and raw
silk. All Japanese exports must be handled by Gout agencies, which
will then re-sell to private firms. Suggest your agent negotiate
directly with Indian Liaison Lission Tokyo, indicating grades and
types. Prices not yet determined, but price silk to other countries
will be set by prices realized in sales U.S. Also suggest you
contact U.S. Commercial Company Washington, which is official U.S.
S
agency handling exports.
RHWhitman
acting Chief Dir, gapane se and
工
(R万m)
DEERVICES
DIVISION OF
RECEIVED
1.1
JK:MMBrom:bcb
5/29/46
IR
M6
eun.
2

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
le
INCOMING TELEGRAM
nbetion
ACTION-DC/L
INFO:
7R.
FE
ES -9-N
1917
ITP
No paraphrase necessary.
A-C
Tokyo via War
0
A-H
OCD
CONFIDENTIAL
Roc d July 6, 1946
FC
6:30 p.m.
DC/R
894.6552/7-
From:
SCAP Tokyo.
To8
War Department for Cos
Br:
C 62735
4 July 1946
This is MaP 56. Subject is market for raw ailk.
SCAP advisor recommends that you sond samples of all types
and gredes of raw silk now storod in the Us to the Silk
4
Guild, the Netional Federation of Textiles, the National
4€
Association of Kosiery Menufacturers and the Conmodity
Exchange, all loceted in New York and to eny other organiza-
tions or groups that represont potontial users of rav silk.
Representative samples of Japanose stocks, grades belov E
and odd sizes not at present schsduled for shipment will be
forwarded for similar distribution, ir you request. SCAp
silk advisor believes 42 denier siik accoptable to American
market and desires eoven question of quantity and kind of
silk roquired by US sá other marketa.
End
ACTION: USCC
INFO:
CG AAF, D/I (Stato), D/SSP, D/PO, CAD, Mr. Poterson
CN IN 929
(5 July 46) Dr0 0408432 00
n
CONPIDENTIAL
8946
FILEL
LFC

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
BRITISH EMBASSY.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
AUG1
July 22, 1946
Dear Mr. Whitman,
894.6552/7-2246
Japanese Silk
A U.K. firm has reported that the U.S.
Government are importing large quantities of silk
yarn from Japan and offering it for sale in Argentina.
The Board of Trade in the U.K. might possibly be in-
terested in importing some part of the Japanese thrown
silk exports and I should be grateful, therefore, if
you would say whether there is any accuracy to the
foregoing report. I should also be interested to
learn what quantities of thrown silk are likely to
be available for export from Japan and at what prices.
Yours sincerely,
M. McDougall,
MMcD:ms
Raw Materials Section
Mr. R. Whitman,
State Department,
901 - 1818 H"St. N.W.,
Washington, D.C.
OF   
7-2246
T OF STITE
J 211946

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
AUG1
In mply refer to
JK
894
.6552/7-2246
My dear Mr. McDougall:
You asked in your letter of July 22, 1946 if there were any
truth to the rumor that the United States is importing silk yarn
from Japan and selling it in Argentina. The aaswer is ne. Raw
silk, as you know, has been imported from Japan, and the Argentines
could obtain an export license and buy it in the same manner as any
one else, but that is as far as the matter goes.
I believe that throwm silk will be imported from Japam in the
future, but at present only the raw silk from existing stoeks is
coming over.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
C
Associate Chief
S
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Mr. Mc. McDougall,
Raw Materials Section,
British Embassy,
Washington 8, D.C.
AUG
Woeu
JK:WSMcCornick:bcb
2
16 P.M.
2246
7/31/46

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
fill
1 NO. 4
DATE: Aug. 9, 1946
894.655
TO
: JCV
FROM : RDW
SUBJECT :
2
This is a copy of the letter from 8
Congressman Flood to the Under Secretaryi
giving a fairly complete file on the
6
Flood-Magagna case.
946
I have questioned JA about this.
Hugh Borton states that the Under Secretary
inguired about the case efter Magsgna
had made his statement in Tokyo. JK is
preparing a memorsndum giving an analysie
of Magagna's statement, though they have
not yet been asked to present the case to
the Under Secretary. According to Borton,
JK has found that many of the facts upon
which Magagna besed his case were outdated
by six monthe.
I suggest that you may wish to read
Flood's letter, comorising the firet four
pates of this folder. Then I believe we
should refer the entire file to JA to
hold pending a possible flere-up in the
case.
P
1.50.
2
19
FE: RDWeigle: la
cat--
35
e

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.90)
wc/g
:M NO. 64
Cjfice Memorandum - UNITED STATEs GovER
DATE:-12-46
71
TO
FROM : JCV
9%
SUBJECT :
I have read most of the contents
of this folder. I wish you would
have someone p through it and summarize
briefly just what lagagna wants done,
omitting all of his varue complaints
and rhetorical dissertations.
J.c.V.
8
-946
nidential File
F:JCVincent:.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.90)
Fils
CONFIDENTIAL
DOSR
Sile
26,1948
TO
Majer-Semeral Marqeat
FROM
Bévin Martin
SUBSBOT
Nagagma and the Japanese Silk Program
FW
As your request I sabuit my conclusioms vith respect to the primci-
pal peinte at issse between Bss and Nagegme, particularly with respeet
to the Japamese silk pregran. These conslusione are persomel views
891
withest any official statas. They are based on decumoats previded by
you and Magagae, en comversat ioms with you and Mr. May ef yeur cteff.
and with Magagaa both in Tekyo and Washingtea. Seneral Sekulgen has
read this meme as well as soveral of the basie decumeats, imcluding your
comments on my first draft. e had mo changes to suggest.
The pointe made by Magagma in his conversation and memees may, for
purposes of discussiom, be classified as followsi
1. "ss is staffed by persomnel completely afemiliar with silk
problems, and lasy, imcompetent, and cerrapt to beet. There-
fore their prepocals are to be disregarded without discussioa
These charges are always so general that they cannot be checked
in any specific way. I have seen mo evidence to substastiate
8
them. What I have seen refutes them. In any ease they are
irrelevant to the problems at iesue - and by the same tekem te
Nagagaa's mission in Japan - mamely the development of a sound
silk pregrem for Japen. Mowever their offect on Ess morale and
P
their petestial muisaace value if publicised unscrapulously im
the Uzited States eamnot be overlooked.
2. "Japan is baakrupt and iafltiomary collapse is immiment unless
drastic measures are takem promptly. primarily production and
importation of large quantities of food, clothing, esc."
This charge is aleo usually in such vague and confused terms that
it is difficult to discuss it. It is also relevant only imdirectly
to the silk problem. Inflation tends to retard all types of
preduction, imcluding silk, and silk importe at maximum levels
will help to pay for meeded imperts. There is mo issme kere.
The respozsible autherities in Ess, the Japamese Gevernnent, and
in Washingtom as fully aware of the situation and doing every-
thing possible along these end many other limes to correct it.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2
3. "Present whelly wasound policies with respest to the distri-
bution and sale of Japasese silk mast be changed".
This demand centers on three points:
a. The use of the Uscc to sell silk in the United States
b. The methed adopted by the Usc0 to dispose of silk in the
United States.
c. The lack of arrangements for shipping silk to ether countries.
At present decisions on each of these points is the responsibil-
1ty of a Washington agency and not of saar. Strictly speaking
Hagagma as a sCap employee has no responsibility in these masters.
but if he wishes te attack present arrangements he should direet
his fire at the State and War Departments and not at soar.
4. "The SCaP program for production and export of silk is unsound at
three poinss.
a. Not as mach silk has been made available for export as should
have been because of the assumption that the U. S. market would
follow the pre-war pattern with only a limited markes for the
lover-grade fabric types of raw silk, whereas in fact anything
can be sold in the present seller's market for textiles of all
kimds, and because of too much concern for the Japanase weaving
industry and not enough for that of the U.S.
b. The Japanese industry. in so far as it has received any direc-
tion at all as to the longer-range requirements of the U. S. for
silk, has been directed to guide its output by grades and types
on the basis of pre-war use patterns which are in fact obsolete
as a result of the great wartime expansion of capacity for the
produstion of mylon and other synthetics.
o. The Japanese should export ober the longer-term future all poss-
ible silk as faw silk, using as little as possible for weaving
for either the domestic or export markets.
When the wheat is separated from the considerable volume of chaff.
these as the only issues left, in my judgment, on which there can be
real issues between the silk programs of Nagagna and Ess. In several
respects even on these points Ess is not always a free agent but is
dependent on other egencies, especially the USCC.
These three points are closely related. For example, the anewer to
"a" must in the end come from the USCC which is xmmmamth respomsible
for sales in the U.s. It can be expected to authorise export omly
of that silk which it thinks it can sekl. On the other hand, what
it is offered for sale by SCAP is affected directly by the answers
given in the field to "a" and to "e". and in the longer run by the
directions given to the Japs under "b".
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3
 persomal comclusioms as to she poliay issuss raised by shese
three poiste are as followe:
1. Por the short-run present only the Usc0 cam specify what grades
and typee of ray silk they can sell and therefere what can be
exported.
2. Bvery effort should be made to export as raw silk or fabrio all
silk prodaced in Japan, maring the Japanese depend on other tex-
tiles for domestic needs. The purpose is to maximise foreigs ex-
change proceeds of Jap exports. This imjumctiom applies to the
USCC, to sCaP, and to the Jap Government and producers. As
applied to sCAP, the USCC should be given an opportamity to sell
if it can all the raw silk available, rather than comfining the
offers made to them to types and grades marketed in the pre-war
years as was apparently done at one time(See May memo of March
26, subject "Magagna Silk Report". par. 3, and May memo of April
3. subjeet "Magagna Nemo for Record, 29 March 1946", page 2.).
Of course until the Uscc with full information on all grades and
types available currently has had an opportunity to test the U.s.
market and tell you what it can sell, you have no better guide.
But it is a guide to be abandomed in favor of something better as
rapidly as possible. I am not qualified to say that too mmch
of too little silk is going into Japanese consumption at present;
I merely urge that it is an important point which the experts
should contimue to watch carefully.
3. The Japanese must be permitted to export fabric as well as raw
silk, partly because it employs labor in Japen and brings them
more foreign exchange, partly becanse in some countriee like
India and probably even the U. S. there is a demand for Japanese
fabrics. I am not impressed by the tariff argumemt under present
high price and shortage conditions. What portion of Japanese rew
silk should be woven in Japan I cannot say - ome might start me-
gotiatioms with prospective purchasers on the assumption that raw
silk will be allocated on a pre-war besis between export as such
and as fabric.
4. So long as wo forbid contact between the Japs and the outside
world, we mmst give them guidance as to what kinde of raw silk
they should plan to produce over the next several years. Orig-
inally I think Washington expected that Nagagna's main contri-
bution would be that oert of guidance. It is clear to me now
shat that was a mistake. It is even clearer that in view of
what has happemed siace his arrival in Tokye it would be an even
more serious mistake to procede from here on out on that basis.
The right mmm might heve corrected to a largs extent the origimal
Washington error if he had gone at his job with an adequate sease
of its bigness and drawn fully on all the talent available in
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIA
scaP, on all bramches of the industry in the U. S., and em the
UsCC for help and guidamce. Magagma has mot seen the situatien
this way. By mow his personal relations ia Tekyo are such, en-
tirely due to his owa efforts, his relatioms with other sectiems
of the industry in the U. 3. have besm diseevered to be se ws-
satisfactery, and his lack of comfideace in the Uscc is so pre-
found that it would be a great mistake to expect him to be abls
to do a good job even if he were disposed to try. I think the
jeb must be done in the U. S. by the War Dept. and the Usoe, in
consultation with all branches of the industry and with comsumers
in other countries, and acting in close cooperatiom with the ex-
perts of SCar with their knowledge of the capabilities of the
Jap silk industry. Until such a report has been prepared there
is no basis for giving the Japanese adequate instructioms, and
ScAP mmst, as it has done, improvise. It sseme clear to me that
scAP was wise mot to accept uncritically the only source of ad-
vice proffered by Washington to date - namely the views of Ma-
gagna.
To summarise with respect to Magagna, I feel that his conduct can
most charitably be described as uncooperative. There seems to be mo
basis for believing that he can contribute more to the Japanese silk pro-
gram in the future than he has in the past, and for a variety of reasoms
which do not mecessarily reflect on his knowledge of the silk industry.
that has been negligible.
I can find no evidence on the other hand that 3s has mot beem com-
stantly seeking to carry out, in more and more effective fashiom as its
knowledge and experience grew, U. S. policies as they apply te Japanese
silk problems. Moreover I feel strongly that in such matters the beme-
fit of amy doubts mast go to the man with operating responsibility. Me
has to take the rap for anything that doesn't work. mgx
8HKKKKKKIKZZBEZXK8KIKKXZKHIKKZSKKKXXHK8XKK8XBS3JBKXIK9XGKXXIKKZKEKKEP3KKU8
Hagagaa makes a mumber of other points which I have no discussed.
Bither I could find no real difference between his positiom and that of
Ess, or I felt that his points were too unimportant or too technical
to be explored carefully in the brief time I had available. These in-
olude the magnitude of the program for expanding Jap silk production.
the testing issue, the question of how SCaP and the Jap Governmont can
best organise their silk activities, and the meed for reorganising the
silk industry to eliminate the influence of "combines".
I em sending a copy of this memo to the State Department for its
information.
CONFIDENA

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Danielf. Flood
HouseofRepresentativesU.S.
PUBLIC DOCUMENT
FREE
M.C.
Mr. John Carter Vincent, Director
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
NIEL J. FLOOD
COMMITTEE:
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
HOME OFFICE:
1015 MINERG NATIONAL BANK
Congress of the United States
WILKES-BARRE, PENNBYLYANIA
Douse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
Agst 6, 1946
Henorable Dean Acheson
Asting Secrstary of State
Department of State
Washingtan, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
You will recall our earlier conversationg with and about Hr. Peter F.
Liagagma, who subsequently went to Japan to join tho staff of General
llacArthur as a silk expert and advisor.
You will recall that I suggested ta Hr. Magagna that he feel free to
write me of his experiences during thy eparse of his volunteer work in the
Japanese occupation.
From time to time, I have heard Mp ür. Magagne, and after his early
trials and tribulations, mich I haye mentioned to you from time to time
and to attaches of the tate Jepartppnt here in Hashington, ür. Nagagna,
in association with General arquat of General Macarthur's staff, prosesded
to devote himself to the tpxtile problems of the occupation govermment,
with special referance to silk. To that end, I an anelosing a copy of a
plan or program preparkb by y. Magagna, dealing with the silk and textile
Needless to say, u. Magagna's communications to me by letter and cable
and several telephone calls fron Tokyo since his arrival in Japan the latter
part of February of this year, indicated clearly that he was experiancing
many of the difficulties I felt sure would be snoountered. Some of thess
were quite natural and to be expected under the difficult circumstances to
be experienced in the military occupation of an Army country; other of his
diffieulties apparently ware the result of the actions and reactiens of
various individuals of the Any and Civilian personnel associated with the
Japanese Occupation Govermment. Apparently an imediate and very important
matter celling for re-xemination is that of the relationship between the
United States Commercial Company, the War Department and the State Department.
Unquestionably, necessity being the mother of invention, the United States
Commercial Company was properly created to fill a very important need and
to perform a vital service. Especially was this so with reforence to the
econony of enemy-occupied territories.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
Honorable Dean Aahesen
2
Angust 6, 1966
This is not intended in any way as a oriticism of the fine work done by
United States Comseroial Company under the presideney of the distingished
Mr. Deitt C. Sehieek. The problem, rather, is whether or nes under all ef
the cireumstanees, United States Commercial Company, at this time, has served
its purpose with reference to the Japanese cscupation - more partioularly with
reference to that part of the Japanese esonony which concerns the silk industry
both in Japan and in the United States.
In view of the recognized abilities of lir. lagagna as an expert on problems
dealing with the silk industry, and in view of the additional faet that be was
accredited by the Army to General lacarthur's staff for the purpese of advising
on silk, I feel that I should tranemit to you, at this time, copies of letters
recently received by me from ür. Magagna dealing with this problem. I am
attaching, as well, copies of communications bearing directiy upon this particular
subject which you may have already received through channels; but which I am at-
taching nevertheless as a matter of convenience.
I am sending copies of this lotter to you and all of the other matters at-
tached hereto to General Hilldring, in view or the faot that he ms Chief of
the Army Civil Affairs Section at the time Magagne was assigned to General
Macarthur's staff; to John Carter Vincepk of the State Department, since he
had some corversations with Magagna befopy he left for Japan; to Edwin Martin
of Mr. Clayton's conamic Section, siboe he, as well, participated in these
earlier conversations with Magagna; to the Secretary of War; and to General
Echols, since he is now Chief of tha Civil Affairs Section, and with whom I
had some conversations with réferend to sagagna's duties; and to Mr. DeWitt
chieck, who is aware of the dxire situation as the result of a recent conver-
sation I had with him and gne of Bis associates in hie Washington office.
I felt that a caretul reading of iagagna's letters and the mupporting
attached documents, plum information I have obtained with raference to the silk
industry's market and production in the United States, especially from Ur.
Paolino Gorli, would indicate very strongly that a conference of the officials
directly concerned of the War Department, State Department and United States
Commercial Company should be held without furthar delay to consider whether or
not Magagna's opinions and conclusions have sufficient merit to warrant eliminat-
ing of the United States Comneroial Company in the Japanese ailk trade at this
time and the substitution of some other method, either that suggested by lagagna
or some other in order that the declared objects of the Japanese occupation can
be best served. Needless to say, I am greatly impressed by the case made out
by tr. Magagna. I feel that a conference of the State Department, Var Depart-
ment and United States Commercial Company should call in representatives of the
silk industry of the United States and get their reactions on the problem of
testing, ahipping and disposal, either by sealed bids, open auctions, et cetera,
and, as well, obtain the views of the industry on silk generally.
I understand, of course, that neither the Army or the State Department, or
both together, have any desire to became merchandisers. That is commendable.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Henerable Dean Achesen
-3
August 6, 1946
Henee the United States Commereial Company. But, by the same taken, the
United States Cemmereial Company may ne longer be the proper agenay, and is
under the diroumstances, can be the best judge, at this time, of the taxtils
sconexy, especially in silk, of the present and future Japanese-United States
cconomis relations. It is, of course, impossibie to separate this element from
the political probleme involved.
I am aware of your intense interest in this situation and, as you know,
I have implicit confidence in your understanding of this one phase of this
extremely involved Far Eastern picture.
I would like to reiterate that, in my judgment, Mr. Magagna is intensaly
sincere in his desire to serve lhis Country in the field in which he is best
qualified - as a silk expert and advisor to SCAP. I feel any statements or
reports he makes will be made honestly to further the work being done by
General Macarthur in the difficult task of the Japanese occupation. I am sure
the various Government departments concemed till melooms any infomation that
will aid them in exscuting the policy of onr government with reference to the
Japanece economy and if and when the facts warrant it, to revise that poliay
accordingly.
If, in the opinion of the silk fajastry and the advice of the experts and
tuxtile people with General Macarthurfs staff, the United States Commeraial
Company has served the purpose for which it was created, as far as this item
of sils, at least, is concerme, and possibly other items, than I believe
Ir. Schieck of the United States Compercial Company, for whom I have a very
high regard and who has been vary eourteous and cooperative with me, would be
the first to agree to the dessation of activities of that organisation. If
the contrary is concluded, that is all vory well; but it seems the situation
is such, at the moment, that the problem should be most carafully re-mxamined
and detemined.
But, under no circumstances, should the opinion of r. Magagna be ignored
because of the clashing of porsonalities which may have resulted during as-
sociations in the past several months in the occupation government.
Magagna is able and experienced in the silk field, and what is most im-
portant, has been on the ground in Japan since February; he has lived in Japan
for years heretofore and is reasonably conversant with that nation's economy.
Keeping in mind our conversations to the same point of view - it is the long
range program with reference to the Japanese economy and its relationahip to
our own vhich must be paramount and take precedence from time to time as these
difficulties arise.
The silk industry in the United States has the right to a renaissance and
the peopie in the industry, both managemant and labor and the cammunities
chiefly affected, to profit reasonably when it is consistent with the high

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.90)
Numosable Deen Asbeson
Angast 6g 1946
pelicy of our Govesmment. At the same time, the relatdonship of the allk
Àndnstry in Japan to the entire Japanese econony is kisterically and taadle
tienally of majer importance. It is, therefore, neseesary end immediate tint
this preblem be sonsidered seute in contributing to the rebirth of ths dapamss
nation as a country that can live among the free demoeratie nations of the
world.
Sincerely yours,
DanielJ. Flood
DanieI J. Flood, M.C.
DJF1ah
Enclosures
CC: General John H. Killdring, Department of State
John Carter Vincent, Department of State
Edwim Martin, Department of State
General Oliver I. Echols, War Department
DeWitt C. Sohieck, U. S. Commercial Company
Hon. Robert . Patterson, Sooretar f War

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY OE CABLBGRAM SENTTO HAGAGNA
ADGUST 3, 1946
MR. PETER F. MAGAGNA
HEADQUARTERS, SUPREME COMAANDER AL ID POWERS
ADVANCE ECHELON
APO 500, C/O POSTMASTER
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFCRNIA
GERLI SEND THIS MESSAGE STO QUOTE STEADILY DECLINING PRICE TREND STIFLING
DEVELOTMENT EXPERIMENTATION RECONVERSION BACK TO SILK STOP FEAR COMPLEX
MAIN FACTOR STOP ADDITIONAL BOTTLENECK OF SITUATION IS LDITED THROWING
CAPACITY THEREFORE USELESS TO FORCE QUANTITIES UPON MARKET UNABLE TO
ABSORB THEM QUICKLY STOP MANY TRYING TO RESEL ALLOTMENTS FIRST SEALED
BID INEVITABLY EACH SUCCESSIVE CFFERING WILL GQFOR LESS ADDING TO FEAR
COUPLEX STOP WHOLE METHOD PROCEDJRE MEEDÀ RESTUDY REVISION DLMEDIATELY
OTHERYISE INVITING COILAPSE WITH ECOJLIC REPERCUSSIONS CHINA ITALY
AS WELL AS CUR POLICY WITH JÁPAN TOP DELICATE ITUATION SHCULD BE HANDLED
BY SYAPATHETIC EXPE I ENCED PEOPIR WITH COMPLETE KNOWLEDGE WORLDWIDE SILK
PICTURE IF IT WERE POSSIBLE PERMIT DIRECT CONTACT JAPANESE REELERS UNDER
SUPERVISION CONTROL SCÁP BELIEVE CCULD ACHIEVE EASY ORDERLY FLON AND SOUID
PLANNING STOP EXPERIENCE NOT UN IKE ITALIAN SITUATION LAST WINTER STOP
REAL MARKET FLOW OF ITALIAN SIL HUSINESS STARTED WHEN USCC WITHDREW STOP
END OF QUOTE
CONGRESSMAN DANIEL J. FLOOD
11TH PENNA. DISTRICT

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREIE COLMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Tokyo, Japan
2 July, 1946
Congresaman Daniel Flood
Old House Office Building
Washington, D. C.
Dear Dan:
This is the first chance I have had to write you a typed letter in
quite some time. As you know I hold no brief for any illegibility and
unfortunately the last letter I wrote you was given in such a hurry that
it was perhaps not as clear as it might have been.
In your letter of 14 June you aaked me, to write you a long letter.
I am doing so now. I see no reason, howevar, why you cannot take exserpts
from it if you want to pass some of thesm ideas along for further considera-
tion.
Personally, of course, I think it is reprehensible that so little
thought is devoted to this theatre.  have literally spent billions in
the Philippines. We have now libarabed them as of this July 4th but in the
same way have liberated them with free trade which will mean entry of their
products duty free and on a tradtylly rising seale. For many years American
industry and agriculture will have to foot tho bill. Candidly this whole
set up in the Philippines, since ke the American people are so generous, has
given me food for thought in the hature of manufacturing enterprises to
manufacture on the Pbilippine low wage scale and ship to the United States
under little or no duty.
At any rate to carry my thought further as regards this theater w have
literally spent billions in China and have lost many thousands of lives in
attempting to help these people, and I refer to our many conversations, I
still maintain they will never be able to reconcile their viewpoint no
matter what we do, even if give them this loan or grant of many hundreds
of millions of dollars such as is now being contemplated. Apparently some-
body in our nationa: and political life in the United States feels that
this field in the Philippines and China should be held or clse these billions
of dollars would not be spent. Now the only thing that we can think of is
to keep the coumunistic influence ss far away from our shores as possible.
If that is the case then we certainly must give greater consideration
to the complex situation in Japan because in reality this country is really
the dividing line between the Fussians here and the Angelo Americans and,
therefore, most certainly deserves much greater consideration than has been
given.
In my opinion and obviously if we had followed the concept of the
democratic principles that we have spent many millions of dollars in
broadeasting to the several nations of the wor d, if we had followed the
concept of the Potsdam Agreement and had maintained the principles of the

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
a
Jeint Chiefs of Staff's operating instructions to General MaeArthur, JOs
1380/15 there is no doubt in my mind that we would have demilitarised this
country not only in actuality but in spirit. We would have breken up
gradually and without undue hardship or bleodshed the fuedal system.
However, unfortunately because of methods and actions of War Department,
State Department and SCAP, this is not true and we are pushing them inte
communism. On May first there was a parade here celebrating May Day. It
was engineered by the uussians and 250,000 people marahed. It ms orderly
but certainly the whole situation as they marched by lacarthur's Head-
quarters gave one a great deal of concern for the future.
In the first place this whole theater is treated at such subnormal
low level in the War Department, State Department and Navy Department in
the States, that it is just pathetic and it raflects itself in the controls
exerted under the policies of SCAP. Apparently the whole question of oceu-
pation here is a football with none of the respective governmental depart-
ments wanting to hold on to the ball. Consequently it is being passed from
one to the other and the whole situation had bogged dowm.
Of course no one seems to realize that when Japan was stripped of her
territories and islands that she depended upon for so much of her raw pro-
ducts and foodstuffs, and she was pushad back into the confines of the four
islands of Japan we were pushing 75 to 80 million people or roughly 58 per
cent of the population of the United States into territories 4. plus per cent
of the area of the United States. Most of this country is of such a nture
that it absolutely cannot be used for agriculture. In addition to this after
five years of war what littile supplies they had stored up have been completely
used up. Consequently, and tery definitely take my word for it only 60 per
cent of the people are getting nearly encugh food the other 40 per cent are
just existing. There are many deaths from starvation and the situation grows
woree daily with little or no hope for any respite. Don't be deluded by
what you read or hear fram these brainstormers who come out here and in two
days size up the situation in this country even though they had nevem been
here bafore. Now on the other hand since last November we have been telling
them that terrific shipments of food and raw cotton would be made to help
them over the bad period we are now comin; to. of course this was a false
promise. The MacArthur grou is resentful that these promises have not been
kept by the War epartment and nobody outside of myself and I have bean doing
it ever since I arrived here, has taken the time to tell the SCAP officials
from General liacArthur down that the fund that the War Department had been
using to buy essentials had been depleted and they they could buy nothing
else and further that the War Department had gotten in so deeply they were
afraid to go any further. On the baais of these promises of War Department
to SCAi and SCAP to the Japanese Government and Japanese Government to the
Japanese people and consequently non-fulfillment of these promises has made
overybody doubt the other in this series so that anything the Japanese
Government tells the Japanese people is not believed and the same thing goes
from SCAi to the Japanese Government and instead of operating along the Lines
of the Potsdam Agreement and J.C.S. 1380/50, people of no business or economio
experience are setting up policies and ideas of their owm and even within the
ranks of the higher-up generals of SCAP no one keeps the ship pointed in the
right direction and utter confusion results.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
3
Added to that the stupid arrangement of selling through U.s. Cemmersial
Company has in the one case throttled the national cconomy of Japan and im
the other case in the United States has threttled the export econesy. I
wired you to review my program and memorandums and the recerd and you will see
that unfortunately what I had predicted has actually come te pass. Now maks
no mistake about all of this we can either reverse our footsteps and our
actions immediately or else we can and should get the hall out of here and
let the Pussians take over because erentually we will have to get out.
The Japanese themselves are shocked at the type of people we are sending
over here in key positions. Don't forget the Japanese ran an economy that
was so well run that it built up the largest textile business in the world.
Their banking system was built up on international trade. We will grant that
it was built up at the expense of the majority of the people of Japan but
let us first face facts, the same thing was done in the early days of the
United States. To be concrete they had a man here who was revising the entire
financial banking structure of Japan. This man was the second or third
assistant manager of the Yokohama Branch of the National City Bank. Now
contrast the ridiculouaness of this situation with actual roality. In addi-
tion an edueation mission came over here and in thirty days were going to
change everything and the same thing goes on and on. Nobody seems to take
into consideration that this country built up a economy, partioularly in
textiles that could supply their so cakled empire, most of Latin Amorica and
even jump over the tariff barriers tntd the United States. That is how big
it was and that is the ridiculous situation that exists here where we have a
group of communistic civilians who ax here in positions of responsibility and
at salaries that they have neyer before come anywhere near approaching. Then
we have a group of fomer officer and officers who all of a sudden branoh out
as tycoons without the slightest khowledge of what it is all about. The majority
of these are staying on becausd as I told you in previous letters they could
not stand the competition and are afraid to meet it in the United States.
Now if you will roview, as I hope you will all of my letters, program and
memos to you in order to rofresh your mind these facts should be of some
importance to you. The Import-Export Division of Economic and Scientific Section
of the Supreme Comander for the Allied Powers has operated without any control
or without any rhyme or reason. Goods have been shipped to various countries
of the world and there has been no settlement as to payment or contemplated
payment, goods has been shipped to the United States but actually as of today
not one dollar has been realized from these shipments. The way my silk program
his been butchered makes it doubtful just what sums will be realized.
As I have told you previously the lussians are a riving and infilitrating
in greater numbers daily. There are now about 500 here and more coming daily,
in addition you have other nationals coming in. They are all intelligent and
actuated by the desire to take care of their om country first which is so
strangely in contrast with the attitude of our people here. At any rate they
are travelling throughout the theater getting information and they are now
beginning to ask very pointed questions at the Allied Council meetings. If
you remember I sent you a newspaper cli ping relating to the charges made by
the laussians that we were systematically looting the country. I feel that
the contention of the fussians had a great deal of merit, because we are
seizing or having caused to be seized assets and camodities of Japanese
individuals. These commodities such as silk, rice, wheat, etc., that are

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
seised by SCAP direstives to the Japanese Goverment and the Japanese
Government by foroe if necessary takes these things for export abread. No
fair basis of reuneration back to the producer has been made. These pro-
ducers constitute the mass of the Japanese people. I have stated repeatedly
that we preach democracy byt are prasticing nationalism and socialism beeeuse
in seising these things we are definitely doing it at ruinous priess to the
producers and farmers. You will remember that under no conditions wms there
to be a seisure or implied seisure of such things without proper arrangements
and fair remuneration to the owmers. Now these seisures are not to be confused
with anything belonging to the former Japanese Goverment or its militarists.
To get back to the Allied Council meeting held recently. At this meeting
the Faussians delegate wanted to know just what Import-Export Division of
Economic and Schantific Section was doing and what the situation was. Mr.
Lee Fleming, Chief of Impart-Export Division, the gentleman whom I asked you
to investigate gave a statement at the open meeting before all of the delegates
which at any rate portrayed the fact that there was a twenty-three million
balance in the SCAi-Japanese account. I had questioned Mr. Fleming about
this previously as well as General Marquat, pow after diligent questioning
the following are the facts. There are no twenty-three million dollar
balances but rather a huge deficit. As I toid you before materials were
shipped to other countries of the wopld and no payments had been made and I
doubt if they ever will be made. Now these amounts are set up as assets but
the most amazing phrase of this phoney bookkeoping is that 5, 200, 000 pounds
of silk has been shipped to the United States and also not one pound of it
was sold as of the day of the meeting. Nevertheless they used the figure of
ten dollars per pound as the selling price and promptly put fifty-two million
do lars on their balance shemet as if it were already there. Nor did Mr.
Fleming or anyone else take into consideration the fact of the deficit of the
special fund of the ar Department not of the terrifio and mounting cost of
the occupation which in reality is being paid by the American taxpayers and
the Americans of any type here in SCAP.
I called Acheson the day before the meeting because I knew the above
questione were going to be aaked and I wanted to warn him and I gave him the
actual status of things but he did not seem to be over anxdous and stated
he was busy and it was arranged I would meet him on Thursday but when I saw
the newspaper article I saw there was no point in discussing it as he had
already made the statement to the newspapers and it was already troadoast to
the world and I assure you that the Pussians are not dropping the subjeet and
this uestion will arise again because it is simply a series of mislsading
statements made deliberately and with full knowledge. Now candidly I doubt
very much if the American people want to lose face by such actions of this
ty,e. Certainly I can't think the average American, the average Congressman
and Senator will uphold such actions on the part of mediocre employees of
State Departmant and War Department. Based on this premise I am preparing
a memo with factual evidence for General MacArthur. My honest opinion is
that General MacArthur does not realize nor does he have the slightest
conception that these statements are absolutely untruthful and that these
facts were fictious in every respect.
Naturally to me the pity of the whole thing is that if the program I
had advocated had been put in operation and these small opportunistic petty

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
~5
characters had not hamstrung me in my efforts there would not have been five
million pounds in the United States now but at least twenty milliens. Yow
talk about thirty-five thousand bales of silk. There could have been shipped
on the program I advomated about fourteen thousand bales in April and twenty
thousand bales monthly thereafter. Do you realise that added to everything
else and in spite of the drastic shortages of fibers in the taited States
there hasn't been any mamples of forty-two denier and sixty-two denier and
various other types of raw silk that I know could have been used and would
have been very readily by American mamufacturers and it is criminal, parti-
cularly, when you think of the low grades of silk from China and Italy and
from Brasil that have been flowing into the United States at fabulous priees.
Why the lowest possible grades of silk that they consider only fit for
domestic use here are far superior to silks of the above three countries.
Nevertheless, U.S. Commercial Company, SCAP and the U.S. Testing Company in
their little tie up together have arbitrarily ruined what should come into
the United States from Japan and what should be kept out. A great deal of
silk has been released here for domestic use that should have been exported.
And what makes me laugh it that it was your work and my work that gave sCAP
the opportunity to export the silk and becaue of our joint work they can
place this fictitious price of ten dollars per pound on silk. Incidentally
I have definitely determined that Ur. Dotty gave instructions to ship the
silk to the United States for testing because a the fact and he stated that
the American purchasers would not use the silk unless U.S. Testing Company
made the tests. This is entirely srrommous because U.S. Testing Company re-
ceived only a small segment of the tosting in the United States and most of
that was rechecking. The tests of tha Japanese testing companies were
accepted on the Commodity Exphanga. And further by this method wilk was
bottlenecked in the United States much to the detriment and possibility of
mhabilitation of the industry.
Dan you show rare perception in any case and in a spirit of candor and
no ill temper I must say I an amazed at the lack of your follom-through on
these most vital thingt. Since I have sent back anough factual evidence
that time has proven me right on I am surprised that you have not followed
through to a greater extent than you have. I am surprised you would let
the small petty people disrupt and destroy an economic rehabilitation that would
have materially assisted the peace of the world and from its dowmri ht sound
business principle would produce a continuing cutlet by the use of the dollar
exchange created in the United States by silk for the products of our agrioul-
turists and cotton growers and rest assured that within two years both of these
commodities áll be uarplus.
I have by, you might say, brute force of continually punching out here
driven into the heads the fact that they are jeopardizing thei: om position
by not giving conaideration to the strangle hold that U.S. Commercial Company
has on their attempts to do anything concrete. The enclosed are some drafts
and radios to the War Department that we are getting out on this U.S. Commercial
Company question. I have already been asked to make a recommendation on
something to replace U.S. Commerical Company. I have proposed that well-
financed selling and buying organizations be placed in various countries of
the wcrld. These organizations to be civilian groups well financed with
stringent control placed upon thm. Perhaps somewhat of a group that Gerli
suggested last December and which proposal I placed before General Hilldring.
Only at that time they had already signed with U.S. Commercial Company. If

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
not this above method then SCAP should have its own selling organisations and
buying organisations in three or four stragetic parts of the world being
operated by civilians who would do it in a business like way. There is so
mush that can be done by direct sale of raw silk and silk goods on world
markets as well as by barter for badly needed things. All of the souatries
of the world would take raw silk on some basis or another. These matters should
rot be handled by War Department or State Department but by somebody who knows
raw silk markets and the balance should be settled in American dollars or the
equivalent of other products based on average world market prices.
A program of silk piece goods for export to the United States was embarked
upon by State Department and Import-Export Section here. Millions of yards of
goods have been made. I have repeatedly stated as you wdll not in my program
that silk piece goods cannot come into the United States under the tariff
barriers. It is only now at this late date that I was able to dispatch offi-
cially a radio to War Department asiing them to discuss this matter and solve
the problem with the Treasury Department. I know that we can't get very much
of this silk cloth into the United States but I know that any businessman could
barter this cloth in Fussia for wood pulp so necessary to try and get the rayen
industry going. Salt from North China also fis necessary and you could go on
throughout the world and you would find the warious things that are so badly
needed here in Japan that we could get on e fair and oquitable basis by bartering
fabrics. As it is everything is at a standstill and industrial activity is
between 8 and 1 percent. In other wonds just as low as it was on the day of
occupation. The yen is worth about 12a to a dollar. SCAP is operating on the
fictitious theory of 15 yen to a doller. Why something isn't dane about this
is beyond my comprehension. In addition to all of the above the mhale country
is in a chaotic state and bedaus of the lack of judgment in setting up a
formula for taking over compoditiae and products a vicious cirele has been
started which cammes
so that syerything including silk is tied up at the
source. Even the Japanese prodioers have enough sense not to produce at
ruinous bankrupt prioes.
I have asked you to talk to various people. Bogden could give you a
great deal of information. I have asked you to secure the Inspector General's
report. I wanted you to send me a newspaper clipping as to graft. Nobody
questions that there was thought in this report which perhaps very conveniently
disappeared. Some heads will be chopped off but fundamentally the old order
carries on.
All of this leads up to the point that when I came out here I went to
Dean Atcheson, Hilldring, and it was agreed that I would have full cooperation.
You have preached it time and time again. If you are all serious about this
matter and that Japan means anything to the United States, which I am seriously
beginnang to doubt beyond that it is occupying it, then I make this statement
flatly and irrevokably that the Economic and Scientific Section of CAP should
be taken out from under Army domination and hould be operated by a civilian
with a great deal of leeway, and it should be operated by a businessman, to
coordinate it with the occupation an officer of general rank with some knowledge
of civilian affairs and business should be placed on General Macarthur's staff
to handle just these things and to coordinate a civilian economy with the
military occupatiom. And I urge that you take steps to do this at once. I
have talked it over with General Marquat who incidentally is in the States for
a few weeks but it is my opinion that he should be placed on the staff to

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
7
coordinate the economic side of the occupation whiah will be operated by
civilians with the military side. Otherwise it is pointless. Every divisien
in Economic and Ssientific Section has a different ides and when the ides has
been forwarded and battled around in Economic and Scientific Sectien and gees
up through the staff of General MacArthur it never gets to MacArthur usually
except in a palliative fomm becuase this staff who haan't the slightest
concept of economic rehabilitation or, in plain words, of business procsdures
tosses it around and usually discards it.
I have told you that 80 percent of the economy of Japan both intemally
and in the foreign trade angle will depend upon textiles of every type and
kind. Don't forget that these people have been stripped of everything but
their four islands. It is because of the fact that these textiles are the
keynote that I feel there should be a place on the Far Eastern Committee
for someone that knons textiles and theconomy, of the rest of the South
Pacific.
Now I am through punching at you. You are a Congressman of the most
powerful comnittee in Congress. Apparently fou haven't had the courage to
tell me that to take this appointmant yoy have given up foreign relations
which of course I think is a damn shame that you did.
You have stated that you hear I am loing & good job. I presume that the
fact that we have actually sent a pound of silk through this mess of red tape
is a good job but unfortunately my nature is not of the kind that can rest
on such nelulous laurels. I feel that a good job can be done here. I feel
that we can srect a bulwark of In luence a ainst the Russian influance by the
simple expedient of using gadd judpnent. This occupation could not only pay
out occupation costs but reparatiens if handled properly. The job imsofar
sim ler than. that of Gemmny, here you have vast potantials that are available
and badly needed on world markets that can create dollar credit of many
hundreds of millions. These for the most part are non-competitive to the
industry or agriculture of the Allied Nations, and just some plain common
business ideas could carry it through. These people are thrigty, industrious,
disciplined, and need very little to live on while they rehabilitate and pay
these necessary debts. Contrast this to Germany with the complexity of Allied
control and where anything you might export from Germany will run contra to
the industrial activities of the Allics.
This idea of beconing a professor ineconomy and busineas administration
to the people I have mentioned is fast becoming irksome. The job of beute
force punching ideas into the heads of general officers dowm is very trying.
The fact of trying to drill home to you things that you, I am sure, are fully
aware of is also a burden. I have never worked harder and believe brother I
have arraingned against me damn near every general officer down in the theater.
Fortunately not having any axes to grind I could take them apart and I did.
You have accused me of a lack of diplomacy and tact. Persanally I think it
was a wonderful thing I lacked those two characteristics because if I had
been delicate you would not have the fictitious two million dollars even.
Incidentally, I told some i these high ranking officers in Economic and
Scientific Section about the proposal Gerli had made and authorized me to
make for him last December. However, this proposal would now have to taks
in more than silk. If Gerli is interested I might re-make the Propsoal to you.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
8
Ay the way yeu kow that Japan cannet trade frealy, Chine has beem trading
frealy ainee the first of the year and she has seld all of her funk silk at
fabuleus priees. Somebody engineered the deal here to export to Chimm tam
adllien pounds of coooens where they would have prodused 1,h00, 000 pomeds of
silk. w the ides that I tried to promote was that they were ald eeesems
and therefore should not be sued to produse silk for Amerisan markets. Is
the first place if you gave Chine the best cocoons in the warld they would
produes the worst silk. In the second place no matter how bad these cessens
were the silk thay would have prodused would have been for the United States.
The only reason Chins wanted the cocoons was because she has dumped in the
United States all of her available silk at high prices and this would have
been a fine little steal for her. Because obviously the United States was
the only market that she would have reeled this silk for, and God knows what
kind of silk it would have been. The Japanese silk industrialists were demeral-
ized when the thing came up. Portunately I was able to put a stop to it and
I am trying to find out who started this thing and why. This should give you
a pretty good idea of what goes on out here.
Sincerely,
Poto
(PeterF. Magagna)

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
CENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREIE CCLIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
(No date on letter)
Dean Dan,
I am getting this off in a hurry as my friand Captain Conamay is
flying to the States this afternoon and will mail it.
f
Dan, something must be done about the Uscc matter, it is a grave
mistake to continue the contracts between War Departwent and Usoc. As
you know, USCC is a throwback from F'EA the give away boys most of them
are on the pink side or reds but they are by their methods stifling the
industrial and ecnnomic life of Japan.
Now ES3 is bad enough the Lord knows but UsCC setup is disgraceful.
Do you realize nothing can be exported out of Japan unless UscC gives the
vord. On the silk picture this is particularly bad. Uscc in Washington
are with the United States Testing Company  when SCAr asks for information
on silks instead of USCC contacting industry In the U.S. it contacts Mr.
Douty who never manufactured a pound of silk in his life. They have a closed
corporation and nobody can break through.
Before the war Japan exported yearly about one billion dollars of goods,
1,000,000,000 valued in U.3. currency. Today, eleven months after the end
oi the war, industrial levels are lesa then l0 percent. Ecnomio life is at
a standstill, the CAP account ha a rictitious sum of $83,000,000, eighty
three million, actually it hs 23,000,C00, twenty-three million, and that
not from exports but fram funds and liquid assets seized from the Japanese
all over the world. The other 60,000,000 is an estimate of silks receipts
if and when the sill: now in the States is sold, with the testing production
of 200 bales daily.
At any rate contrast this above with the $1,000,000 ,000 exports
nommally. Now we have here about 30,000 bales of 42 denier fozen by us in
SCAf. U CC has not sampled world markets that badly need silk fibers and
al thoy say is use it domestically. Every pound of silk used domestically
in Japan is a terrible waste, it sould be converted, so dollar exchange can
be accunnlated for necessary food stuffs, etc. Also frozen here are millions
of yards of silk piece goods that I now can not be exported because of high
duties, and here it lays.
Now remember the fictitious credit account of 3,000,000 says nothing
about the cost of occup. tion to the United States. 0ver $400,000,000 or the
fund in War Department that is broke but at ny rate amounted to many millions.
Further look at what tremendous disadvantage Japan our responsibility is
placed under, China who deals direct is and has been expo. ting goods from the
first of January to the U.s. and these here have  iven to China exortable
rotentials that could have been used to export to the nited States for
Japanese crodits.
too
Now because General Hilldring and State and War Department are/tied up
to properly run this occupation, and want to foist the job of running the

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
export economy of 80,000,000 over on Us00 a bunch of rank amateurs and pink
teas and the internal economy over on a group of third rate civilians and
Amy officers, all of this I say is a rank and poor excuse and certainly
reprehensible to say the least. That these 80,000,000 people should be
tossed all over hell's creation. It violates all decent principles of
democracy and should be sto ped.
Either let us do the job under the concept of true decent Christianity
and democracy or let's give it back to the Japanese who made a good job of
running thedr own sconomy. The American Army would be the first to raise
hell if it was proposed to get rid of all higher officers and let civilians
run the Army. Then why do they think they can run business.
First maie the UCC mample the American markets particularly with the
42 denier. Second get id of Uscc. I have already been asked what I suggost
end I an sending or taking rather a memo to LacArthur. I feel either a setup
as Gerli suggestod, the same as the Chinese have done, a group of businesamen
here aport under the government control of sCAp to a roup such as Gerli
suggosted in the States, probably headed by Garli who would sell on a Commission
basis all goods consigned to the States and the World, or a group such as
Ammtorg which handled all Russian buainese-ia the U.S. At any rate get Gerli
and others working on it and have him cable me deas and write them also ideas
on silk prices and quantities, etc.
Now as to running s do you as an American of your intelligence want to
do this job right or not. Ess under ax Anmy officer wants to operate on anmy
basis. The sume red tape, same negative ap roach, same delays, same fear of
higher ran ing officers. iet tarjust operete as head to coordinate but myself
as hiu deputy to take care of the butiness end. If this is not done all
collapses. arquat is home in the States. You had better get mord to him
that he will accept that principal or you will move to get rid of military
in Ess. I an suggesting thia same plan to lacarthur.
The only reason I want to stay i because of the herd work and battle I'vo
put up and because I do feel I inow more b ut the economy of the Far East
than nybody around here. This is nat the time for nodesty but for facts. The
eyes of Macarthur and ali the other generals are on me. I've got a new taxtile
division sponsored by MacArthur. Everybody is watching out here to see if I am
just a lot of talk or if I'll make sood. You realize my nature. I feel I
can right this situation. I vish I had never come but after this battlie I hate
to run. I wish you would impress all of tlis on my family.
Inflation continues to rise as it would with 10 percent industrial activity.
The foolish business of the yen at 15 to 1 when it should be 100 to $1 gives us
all hell and disturbs the picture. The CA? policy pre ches damocracy but
actually practices and forces ocialism. We by indirect methods force the
Japanese peo le to tum foodstuffs and commodities to the government for
distribution to other classes. The producors do not et anything for their
ef orts but yen of little or doubtfui value. But they cannot buy anything.
Sincerely,
Pete
(Peter F. Magagna)

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
20 Marah 1946
SUBJECT: Report and Recommendations on Rehabdlitation of
Japanese Raw Silk Industry
TO:
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
1. The rahabilitation of the Japanese raw silk industry with a view
to regaining some portion of her former export markets, has not been given the
consideration or caraful planning that it properly merits. For some strange
reason, this industry, which was the foundation dt Japan's economic growth and
which is the only non-warlike, non-competitive potantial export commodity of any
great magnitude, has been relegated to a minor and insignificant position in the
general overall plans of reconstruction or Japan and as outlined and agreed upon
at Potsdam.
2. It is obvious there ie laoking to date in SCAP a full and compre-
hensive understanding of the vital part the raw silk industry assumed in the
general overall national ecenomy of Japan, both from the standpoint of mployment
and revenue. The industry employed directly or indirectly more than 12% of the
total population and from 1918 to 1940 exported on an average of over THREE
IUND RED FDF TY MILLION ($350,000,000) DOLLARS annually of ra: silk, with 85% of
the total taken by marmfacturers in the United States.
3. Further, raw silk is the only major export commodity of Japan which
is not produced or processed from imported raw materials, but is all produced
within her owm economy, and the proceeds from raw silk exports represent a clear
gain in foreign exohange. Therefore, it is apparent that this industry should
be given first considoration in future planning and immediate firm energetio
steps should be taken to rehabilitate it with emphasis placed on the long range

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
2
viewpeint so as to insure a centinued econamy. The industry has beam allowed to
drift and toe mmch time has been lost already.
4. It might as well be recognised here and now by all eenserned that
it improper planning or administration jeopardises rehabdlitation of the raw silk
industry, there is no other esoncay of any sise for Japan to fall beek upen in
order to create the foreign exshange necessary to pay for badly needed foodstuffs,
raw cotton, etc., and to pay reparations. Raw silk is non-competitive in most
countries and, therefore, enters most countries dutyfree as, for exmmple, the
United States. Anthing else Japan might attempt to export - silk, rayen or cotton
fabrics, or any combination fabric, will not only have to jump high tariff barriers,
but because they enter competitive fields will tend to encroach upon the textile
is bound to be tremendous opposition to any plans to eoport fabrics from Japan.
We have a historic background for the above statement. In the Thirties, violent
unwarranted speculation in raw siik in Japan caused such great fluctuations that
American consmers turned to synthetic fibers more and more because of price
stability, and Japanese silk axports declined. In turn, Japan expanded its rayon
and co ton industries and because of low labor costs, flooded world markets with
cheap rayon and cotton fabrics, causing tremendous disallocation of employment in
the other textile mamifacturing countries.
5. To SCAP has been given the task of advising and directing Japan
in its effort to rebuild that portion of its economy that dll not at some future
time emerge as a danger to the people of the world. Nevertheless, SCAp has per-
mitted the Japanese to embark on a plan to rebuild its most lhgical non-war industry,
raw silk, without any attempt to bring to the Japanese a realistic picture of what
confronts them.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
6. The Japanese raw silk produsers have been allowed te resme epere-
tions just where they stopped them at the time the United States breke eff
relations with Japan in July, 1941. Field surveys and independent researeh,
coupled with & ccmplete analysis of the files in the Economie and Seientifis
Section of SCAP, reveal the Japanese are thinking completely in terms of pro-
dustion of raw silk for the American hosiery industry and are concentrating their
afforts in that direction. Further, reckless individuals in SCAP without the
necessary training and experience have injected themselves into the situation and
conducted meetings with raw silk producers and given ill-founded advice which,
unfortunately, is being followed not only by Japmese producers, but by SCAP
itself.
7. For some strange reason, ar has seen fit to follow the advice of
these people who have never had any experience whatsoever in production, experte-
tion or sales of raw silk on any markats. It would seem that the so-called progrm
now in operation under SCAP has been st up by the above people, coupled with the
advice of Japanese who were former office holders and large share holders in the
big silk combines.
8. Various radios with regard to a silk program consistent with basie
policy have been received from and dispatched to Washington in the past several
days. Since there was no supporting evidence in the files of the Eanamie and
Scientific Section of SCAP to indicate t at directives were given establishing
a properly coordinated silk program or silk export program, or to indicate just
what the basio policy was, the Chief of the Section was aaked to give same in-
fonuation on the subject. He first stated that there was no program. Later, he
said that SCAp was working under the directives Iven in Radio IX 74059 of 11
October 1945, which also set forth the basic policy.
9. It would ap ear that the Radio2A 6846 of 12 October 1945, disproves

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
this contention sinoe this radio asked the War Department to sand to Japen silk
advisers to advise the basis upen which the silk industry in Japan should be
re-establimbed, discuss price and stabilisation plans and types of silk to
be prodused, etc. A technical testing adviser did coame in response to this
request, but the other adviser did not coms until later because it would have
been an impossibility to advise on the other phases of the raw silk industry in
an intelligent manner until the PA had acted on the price of Japanese raw sdlk
imported into the United States. The OPA did act on 16 Jamuary 1946, and lifted
price restrictions on Japanese raw silk. Subsequently, the silk adviser selected
His advice to date has been by-passed, and badly conoeived advice and plans given
by persons not relevant to the situation
all the ground work that had been Laid to ingure the continuance of a Japanese raw
silk economy might well be destroyed.
10. In the United States, maby advances in the field of textiles have
been made since July, 194l, and those advances have not been woxplained to the
Japanese producers of raw silk. The DuPont Corporation invented nylon in 1939.
That corporation focused its attention on developing a fiber to compete with raw
ailk for hosiery markets. Up to l94l, their production was limited. However,
the adaptability of nylon to so many vital war needs was so wide that our Govem-
ment requested DuPont to increase drastically their production. Today, DuPont can
produce about twenty-eight million (28,000,000) to thirty million(30,000,000) pounds
of nylon yearly and they expect to restrict the  reater portion of this production
to the hosiery trade.
11. Actual tests show that mylon hosiery outwear silk hosiery by a two
to one ratio, so economy will dictate and the average consumer will buy nylon
hosiery. Forty eight million (48,00,000) pounds of silk was the largest con-

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
saption of Japanese raw silk in one year by American hosiery mills.
12. Taking into consideration the above fasts and realising that a
pertion of the nylon produotion will be sold as a matter of paliey by DuPent te
other trades, and allowing for an expansion of the hosiery mamfacturers' business
and the fact that a segment of the consmer will buy silk hosiery out of preferense
for silk or an allergy to nylon, the best the Japanose raw silk produsers can hope
for is a market of not over eight million (8,000,000) pounds yearly to Ameriean
hosiery mamfacturers, or about sixty thousand (60,000) bales.
13. Despite the urgent need of Japan for dollar exshange and the acute
shortage of raw yams necessary for American weaving and warp knitting mills
necessary in the production of badly needed consumer goods in the United States,
raw silks that could be used by these abeve namufacturers in the United States are
ariitrarily set aside and cassified as non-axportable and in many casss these silks
are released for Japanese consumptión, mo the Japanese sacrifice a portion of the
badly needed dollar exchange necemdery to buy food, raw cotton, etc. All concerned
seem to have lost sight of the fast that the exportation of these silke could help
the American textile amployee end the general buying public because these yarms
would help in the operation of over five hundred thousand (500,000) weaving looms
and thousands of lmitting machines that are either idle or on a reduoed working
schedule. Insofar as the weaving manufacturers and warp knit manufacturers are
concerned, they can look only to Japanese raw silk to relieve permanently the present
acute fiber shortagea.
14. It is not intiended, nor would it be equitable, to ignore the American
hosiery manufacturers. They are badly in need of Japanese raw silk and they should
have it, and in the proper sizes and grades. However, their need on the whole is
only temporary. The DuPont Corporation is daily converting more and more nylon from
the war sizes to the finer sises required by the hosiery manufacturers. At the same

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
time, high tenscity rayon jmas been preduced whish is suitable for hesiery and
will be used in that industry on a continuing basis. The Ameriean hosiery indastay
estimates their annual requirements on a permanent contimuing basis will be abous
25% to 30% of their pre-war annual consumption of Japanese raw silk. Therefore,
the Japanese industry should be directed to produce sises and grades of raw silk
for hosiery on the above basis. To produce a greater percentage of raw silk in
hosiery sises andgrades just to relieve a present temporary shortage dces not
contribute to the building of a sound contimuing Japanese raw silk economy, and
may militate against the building up of other permanent raw silk markets.
15. In the meantime, all stored raw sis of any type should be tested
and graded and the records sent to Washington for r lease to raw silk purchasers
in the various world markets so it can be debenmined just what silk should be
relieve the present fiber shortages now affeoting operations of both weaving and
hosiery mamufacturars in the United States and also help relieve unemployment in
certain textile centers of the United States and gain immediately for Japad as much
foreign exohange as possible.
16. Raw silk speculation in Japan and the United States has done more to
destroy and limit markets for Japanese raw silk than all other factors combined.
The great losses sustainod by manufacturers and distributors due to price fluctuations
of raw silk caused mostly by speculation and unreliable statistics furnished by the
Japanese Government agencies forced the American manufacturer to turn more and more
to aynthetic fibers because of price stability.
17. This above fact was explained to and underatood by both the War and
State Department so, although 3CAP had since December 1945 frequently asked for and
recommended clearances permitting shipments of raw silk from Japan to the United
States, the War Department and the State Department were prevailed upon by Congressman

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
7
Daniel J. Floed of Pennaylvania (Member of Foreign Affairs Cemittee, sub-
emmmittee for Far Fastern Affairs) to delay such action as be realised a shaetls
situation rife with speculative danger would coour if shipments of raw silk ware
ade prier to clarifisation of the Office of Price Administration price poliey em
raw silk, or before an orderly marketing program was agree upon, and more partieu-
larly until a comprehensive silk program had been established in Japan.
18. Congresaman D. J. Flood's efforts were responsible for the removal
of the Oifice of Price Administration price limitation of $3.08 per pound on rew
silk as of 16 January 1946. In connection with his presentation on the subjeet
of silk to the Office of Price Administration, he had gained a thorough and
somphete understanding of the Japanese raw silk economy through study and research
could irrevocably damage or impede the erfarts to reestablish the Japanese raw
dlk economy on a continuing basts. At recent meetings in Washington with General
lldring, War Department, and his Aides and Under-Secretary Dean Atchisan of the
State Department and his aides, the following policy was enunciated with regard to
the disposition of Japanese raw silk; namely, the United States Commeraial Company
which apparently will dispose of the silk in American markets, is a temporary
agency created by the exigencies of war. The War Departmant and the State Department
have been in existence since the start of our democracy and will permanently contimue
as policy making and functioning departments of the United States Government; and,
therefore, since they have a vital interest in the rehabilitation of the economy of
Japan, they should establish policy for the United States Commercial Company, under
which the War Department and the State Department will have a continuing interest
in the disposition of raw silk, realizing that the proper disposition will mean a
continuing economy for Japan.
19. This policy was accepted by both the War and State Departments and,

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
asserdingly, thay sent the above notifisation to the officers of the Uaited states
Commereial Company. Therefore, since SCaP is the recognised agensy to carry cut the
pelisies of the War and State Departments in the field, it would be in erder fer
SCAP to lend its weight and influenee to the poliey by conveging to United states
Cemmercial Company officials in Washington its agreement with the poliey. There is
sound reasoning for advocating the above policy. The proposed method of the United
States Commercial Company of selling raw silk with sealed bids is fantastic and
unorthodox, and it is feared that the sales methods will cause wide flustuatiens in
price. This is the most important thing to control because it was the unstability
of price that drove many American manufacturers from the me of silk.
20. It was further proposed to State and War Departments that the United
States Commercial Company be instructed to sell Japarèse raw silk in the United
a percentage of the total purchases of raw silk over a selected base period. There
is historical background for this above proposal. When raw silk was frosen and
seized by the War Production Board in July 194l, the abote mothod was used as a
basis for War Production Board directives to rayon producing companies making rayen
available to the raw silk users affected by the freezing and seising order. Also
the same method is contemplated by the State Department in determining quotas of
Japanese raw silk stored and presently being manufactured to be allowed to other
Allied Powers, who were pre-war purchasers of Japanese raw silk.
21. Thorough analyses of world markets for raw silk have been carried on
for the past aighteen months by recognized silk authorities and reveals that a world
market of THIRTY MILLION (30,000,O00) pounds anmually is possible with caroful
planning and orderly marketing. This production, based on the last quotation from
New York, which is the leading market of the world, means a revenus in exmess of
THREE HUNDRED NILLION ($300,O00,000) DOLLARS. It is not to be assumsd that this

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
-？
price will centimme begend the first year, but it is thought by the same autherities
that if the distribution of the present stoskpile here in Japan and this yearts
prodestien of raw ailk is orderly and well planned, then in a gradual orderly
manner aynthetie fibers will foree silk to its proper level as a lwary item,
somewhere at a range of FIVE ($5.CO) DOLLARS to SIX ($6.CO) DOLLARS per pound and,
at that price, conoeivable the consumption of raw silk may raise and compensate in
revemes to some extent for the drop in price from present levels.
22. The methods embarked upon by SCAP of shipping silk to Amerisan
markets without any thought as to proper combinations of sises and qualities,
further, without regard to insuring for continuity of shipments, coupled with
contemplated unorthodox methods of selling by the United States Commercial Company
in the United States can, with the very first shipmerts, cause such great flustuations
raw silk industry; and, consequently, badly needed revenues for Japan will not be
23. This proposed silk program aims not only at stability of price of
raw silk in world markets ad that a continuing raw silk economy for Japan will result,
but it should be obvious to all that by the continuance of the Japanese raw ailk
oconomy we are creating a continuing market for American cotton and this market
is badly needed by the cotton growers of the United States. We have a surplus of
cotton non, and there is no doubt that we will have difficulty each year in disposing
of raw cotton. The last large markets for cotton have been breached now that
synthetic tire cord has replaced to a great extent cotton cord. What is more natural
than the United States purchasing as they did formerly the bulk of the Japanese
raw silk and selling to her former largest purchaser of cotton, namely Japan, that
surplus cotton which we will have each year. It was recognized many years ago that
a natural free exchange of trade existed botween Japan and the United States, We

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
-10
purehased frem her the non-competitive commodity of silk and seld to her the nes-
competitive commodity of cotton. For this reason we permitted raw silk to eeme
into the United States duty free.
24. At this point serious attention should be given to the faet that
long before the end of the war China was making strong representations to the other
Allied Powers to the effect that she, China, should administer and control the
Japanese economy, more particularly the silk economy. These representations were
based on many strong factors. China herself was a producer and seller of rew silk
and familiar with all phases of the silk industry. China's economy had beem ravaged
and destroyed by the Japanese. China had been longest in the war and her losses in
men and material were greater than any of the bther Allied Powers, and she had the
largest and strongest claim of any of the lied claimant nations. There is merit
in China's represantations. It is only the fact that the United States would be
relegated to an inferior position that preveited acceptance of China's representa-
tions. China had always, as she now has in the United States, many friends. This
group of influential American citizens constitutes a large bloc. This bloc has
always been overzealous and overaympathetic to the many demands and needs of the
Chinese. This bloc, if convinced that sCAP was not administering properly the
Japanese silk economy, would give their support to a program that would permit
the Chinese to take over and administer the Japanese silk economy, using our
occupying forces as policin: agants. The manner in which the silk economy of
Japan is now being administered by SCAP, if continued, will open the door for China
to again press these representations and this time possibly with suocess. If this
should happen, American prestige would sink to a new low.
2). Fact after fact could be marshalled with statistical data from
recognized authorities to austain the above premises, and further recognition must
be givan that any other type of industry that might give production for export

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
-110
mest likely weuld fall into the classification of a war petential. Further, the
statement of Secretary Bymes saveral days ago to the effect that no funds wald
be loaned to rehabilitate industrial plants in Japan makes it apparent that rew
silk produetion must be concentrated upon. It is evident that this is not being
done now. The reckless course now being pursued by SCAp threatens to destrey the
well laid ground work for a continuing Japanese raw silk econamy.
26. Therefore, in view of all of the above, and clearly realising that
an orderly, busidess-like program must be planned and put into effect immediately
to rehabilitate the raw silk industry in Japan, and at the same time give confi-
dence to the minds of potential customers that thare will be a continuity of
supply without violent price fluctuation, the following recommendations are made:
1. That SCAi immediately establiabes a planned and coordinated program
range policy to insure a continuance of the Japanese raw silk economy vitally
needed by Japan to gain foreign exchangb. Past history clearly shows that
speculation and subsequent price fluctuation will destroy any chance of continuing
raw ilk export markets on a large scale. The program, therefore, should inolude
stringent measures to keep speculation at a minimum.
2. The encroachment of aynthetic fibers in the past six years has been
so great that surveys of potential world markets for raw silk by leading authori-
ties makes it doubtful if the Japanese raw silk exports can exceed thirty million
(30,000,000) pounds yearly. The Japanese producers are concentrating on the pro-
duction of much larger quantities of silk, as evidenced by the fact that they are
building large quantities of reeling machines and contemplating increased mulberry
acreage. To produce the thirty million (30,000,C00) pounds for foreign markets,
fift -one thousand (51,000) reeling basins and two hundred thousand (200,000) chobu,
or four hundred ninety thousand (490,000) acres, are sufficient. Reeling equipment

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-12
presuntly in use together with those being prepared for operation in additiem to
those coming out of hiding, make it un-necessary to build any large additienal
quantities of reeling besins. The mulberry production should be inereased alightly
and intensively cultivated. Directives should be given immediately to diseontims
the mamufacture of reeling machines that will put in operation basins in exsess of
the fifty-one thousand (51,000) and to convert any mulberry acreage above the four
hundred ninety thousand (490,000) acres to other agricultural products. In the
event it is found that larger productionaf silk can be used in world markets, it will
be an easy matter to increase mulberry production and arrange for the msnufasture of
additional reeling machines.
3. A planned controlled export program shbuld be initiated. On the basis
of pre-war quotas, approximately one hundred sixty theasand (160,C00) bales of the
available to the markets of the United Stabes. The export program should be
fourteen thousand (14,000) bales in April and appraximately nineteen thousand
(19,000) bales each month thereafter for the remmining eight months of 1946. Ship-
ments should be made if possible in equal amounts at intervals of every two weeks
and should contain a combinatfon of sizes and qualities.
4. After the above shipping program is cleared and approved by the War
and State Departments, it ahould be announced publicly in the United States and
every effort should be made to keep this schedule of shipments. This will give
necessary oncouragement to manufacturers as to a continuity of supply and will curb
speculation. My investigation discloses that the above program can be met if full
cooperation is given by all concemed.
5. Immediate consolidation in the building of the Imperial Testing Company,
Yokohama, of all present testing facilities now scattered throughout Japan at the
following various points:
Kobe, Kyoto, Maeabashi, Okaya and Kanazama.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-13
Sufficient equipment and personmel will then be available to test preperly seves
hndred (700) bales daily insteed of the seventy five (75) to one hundred (100)
bales now tested daily under unsatisfactory, time wasting, inefficient cenditiens.
The Tokohama Testing Company building was especially built to test and store rew
silk. It is fireproof and carthquake proof and can take care of present contemplated
annual production.
6. Since dollar exahange is needed badly in Japan and it is doubtful that
silk piece goods can be axported to the United States because of existing tariffs,
domestic consumption of raw silk should be curtailed drastically and immediately.
This curtailment should be extended to the short langth silk spinning fiber industry
because both the raw silk weaving and the raw siik spinning production reduces the
quantity of raw silk thnt will be available for export. Over five hundred thousand
weaving looms and hundreds of knitting mmonines in the United States are either idle
or on curtailed production due to the lack of raw yarns. Consequently, this situation
is producing considerable unemploymant ix the textile industry. The American factories
can use prectically all of the types and grades of the raw silk stored here and now
being produced so that the banefits extend not only to accumulation of foreign ex-
change by Japan, but to employment and the production of badly needed consumer
goods in the United States. It will be far better to ship from the United States
to Japan raw cotton to be manufactured for clothing needs than to continue to waste
and inefficiently utilize silk fibers now badly needed in the United States.
7. The arbitrary method now in use of determining which silk should be
exported should be discontinued immediately and a sensible approach substituted,
one thet will take into consideration the urgent needs of all types of silk fibers
in the United tates, the current prices of silk in the United States, namely,
TWELVE DOLLARS ($12.00) a pound. These exportations of silk will bring foreign
axchange immediately. The adoption of this program should stabliize rew silk

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
7
-14
priees at TWELVE DOLLARS ($12.00) a pound. Then in a gradually orderly mamer
synthetic fibers will force silk to its proper level as a lwxary item.
8. Immediate steps should be taken to reach the reoommended thirty millien
(30,000,00) pounds annual raw silk produstion as quickly as possible. Besause ef
pre-war preparation, the war in Japan and its chaotic aftermath, all phases of the
Japanese raw silk industry from the mulberry fields to the manufacturing equipment
have been neglected badly. An immediate program must be planned and coordinated
to remedy this condition at once.
9. Raw silk producers and everyone now connected with the silk indastry
are in a state of bewildered uncertainty as to the sises, quantities and qualities
of raw silk to be produced. Proper directives should be given to them at once. A
meeting of the producers should be held as seen as postible so that the planned
be outlined and explained to them.
10. Conferences shouldbs inaugurated at once with the other Allied silk-
consuming nations to determipe definitely their requirements in sizes and qualities
and to settle the quantities to wiich they are presently and respectively entitled,
and at the same time to determine if they are willing to meet the current prevailing
prices in the United States for raw silk. It may be that they will recognise that
for the current year they do not wish to meet these prices and they may waive their
claims for this year in expectation of lower prices next year. This wdll allow
larger quantities for export to the United States and result in a larger dollar
balance for Japan. In turn, this would mean the first step of Japan to help herself
externally. These questions should be settled here in the field.
1l. Conferences should be held with claimant nations to determine the
sizes and qualities of raw silk they require, the precentage of production to be
allocated each, in order that proper directives may be issued to the raw silk

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
-15
predueers. Alse, the price to be allocated for silk fer effeet against their repase-
tion alaims should be determined.
12. With lack of funds and the inflationary trend in Japan, some basis 
understanding in Japan mist be reached at once. This understanding with the Govermmest
and silk indnstry of Japen must cover suah fundamentals as to the method of equitably
taking over the raw silk, arranging for interim payments or finaneing to enable
manufacturers and farmers to commence or contimue operation and to meet payrolls.
This is a most important point for the mulberry grower. He will not continue to
produce unless some equitable arrangement is provided since the growing of agrieultaral
products for the black market presently offers him an immediate and lucrative profit.
It is important to settle this question at once and ina manner which conforms with
the Potsdam Agreement.
13. A new department of the Japanese Government should be created at once
consolidating under one administrative head all phases of the silk industry in Japan
from mulberry production to the final production of piece goods. This will permit
proper control of the industry. Under the present Japanese Government organization,
control is not efficient. Under the present aysten there is too much overlapping of
bureaus, too much time and effort are lost in attempting to achieve results after plans
are formulated.
14. Similarly, such a consolidation should be made in SCAP. A separate
administrative head under Ess should be authorized to plan and direct all phases of
the raw silk industry from mulberry production to piece goods. This is a highly
technical subject in all its phases. Considering the importance of the raw ailk
industry in Japan, it needs a full time administrator representing SCAP who understands
all the technicalities of the business and can build up a staff to handle and control
the industry. It is quite obvious to date that because of the press of duties on the
other administrators, it has been impossible to date to exercise proper control and

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
-16
chesks over the industry.
15. While the simplisity and orerall desirakdlity of the present metheds
of giving directives to the Japanese Govarmment is appreciated, the nesessity fer
occasional exseptions thereto must be recognised. This is particularly true with
regards to directives given the raw silk industry. It must be remembered that mest
of the mulberry farmers are peasants. The producers in the country are, themselves,
not overly educated and it is hard for them to understand that they. are taking orders
and directives from the officials of the former silk combines who were the very people
who brought them to their present plight. The silk combines, through owmership of
branch banks throughout the country, financed the thulberry farmer, the ailkworm pre-
ducer and the silk producer at exorbitant rates ef tnterest so that it as virtually
impossible for the farmers or the independert producers of raw silk to edss and the
silk reeling plants were taken over one by one and amalgamated into the combines. It
would be wall to give the SCAP silk admigistrator direct control to assure the farmer
and the producer that we are not aiding the Zaibatsu to re establish themeelves at
their expense. It is obvious from letters received in the United States, as wall as
letters in the files of the Beonexic and Scientific Section, that the silk ecmbines
are still thinking of control of the industry and operation on the New York market
with their owm control offices there. So it is not to be presumed that SCAP will
receive full and eympathetic cooperation on this program from the former silk
combines.
Peter F. Magagna
Silk Adviser
GHQ, SCAP

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
TO1 CINCAFPAC ADV (MACARTHUR) FROM WASHINGTON NR: WX 74O59
1. QUESTIONS RAISED IN URADS SEPTEMBER ZA 5509 AND ZA 5739 HAVE BKN
CONSIDERED WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT WHICH ADVISES THE POLLOWING
POLICY TO BE FOLLOWED FOR JAPANESE SILK PRODUCTION:
2. EXCEPT FOR PLANTATIONS JUUTA FBHCNGOOR BUSHES ARE READY BECAUSE OF
AGE OR POR SOME OTHER REASON TO BE REPLACED, IT IS CONSIDERED ON BASIS
INFORMATION AVAILABLE HERE THAT MULBERRY AREAS SHCULD NOT BE REDUCED
EXCEPT IN CASES WHERE THEY OCCUPY LAND WHICH WOULD BE ESPECIALLY
PRODUCTIVE IF USED FOR FOOD. WHILE A MAJOR AIM IS TO MAXIMIZE FOOD
PRODUCTION, IT IS RECOGNIZED THAT 3IIK CONSTITUTES AN IMPORTANT
FOREIGN TRADE ITEM AND THE MOST READILY ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF CREATING
FOREIGN EXCHANGE TO PAY FOR IMPORTS AND, THEREFORE, SILK PRODUCTION
SHOUID NOT BE REDUCED WITHOUT CORRESPONDING ECONOMIC BENEFITS.
3. WITHIN BROAD POLICIES LAID DOWN BY YOU, MAXIMUM RESPONSIBILITT FOR
FO.ULATING AND EXECUTING FOOD AND AGRICULTURE PROGRAMS SHOUID 
PIACED UPON JAPANESE UTHOPITIES. HOWEVER, THESE PROGRAMS, INCLUDING
MULBERRY ACREAGE, SH UID BE FOLULATED BY JAPANESE WITH THE ADVICE AND
APPROVAL OF YOUR AGRICULTURAL. EXPERTS.
4. BNTIL SUCH TIME AS FOOD IMPORT E UIREMENTS ARE CALCULATED AND EXPERT
TARGET FC:. SILK ESTABLISHED, UNABLE TO GIVE DEFINITE POLICY GUIDANCE
BASED ON RELATIVE CONSIDERATIONS OF NECESSITK FOR FOOD PRODUCTION AS
AGAINST MULBERRY PRODUCTION. FURTHER UNTIL. ITENT OF FULI. IMPORT
PROORA FCR JAPAN IS KNOWN, UNAHLE TOREACH DEFINITE CONCLUSIONS ASED
ON EVALUATION OF MECESSITY FOR SK PAODUCTION AS MEANS OF CREATING
FOREIGN EXCHLJKI ITH WHICH TO PAT DOR DPORTS. FOR THE PRESENT, IN
VIEW OF GREATER ALOUNT OF DETAILED INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO YOU,
PCIIC UANTITY UF MULHERY ACREAGE IS LEFT FOR YOUR DECISION
WITHIN THE GENER:L POLICY QUTLINED ABOVE. REFER PART ABOVE.
5. DI ECTION TO CONTINUE P ISE STABILIZATION PROGRAM, RIFER PART 4
URAD ZA 55O9, IS NOT CONTAINED IN PRESENT DRAFT OF ECONOMIC DIRECTIVE
DIRCTIVE NO: UIDE ACTIVE CONSIDERATION. IN ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH
3 ABOVE DETERMINATION CONOBRNING REVIVAL FRICE STABILIZATION PROGRAM
SHOULD BE HADE BY JAPANE AUTHOIL IES SUBJECT ADVICE AND APPROVAL YOUR
AGRICULTURAL EXPERTS.
6. NOT Y T POSSIBLE ADVISE CCHCEHIING QUANTTTY AND TYPES SILK DESIRED AS
TARGET FOR EXPOIT. WILL BE TRANSMITT D TO YOU AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
7. ADVICE ON CHANNELS TO BE USED FOR EXPORT WILL BE CONTAINED IN REPLY
TO URADS SEPTELBER ZA 551O AND CCTOBER CA 52579. PIICES FOR BILK WILL
BE FURNI HED YOU ON SI CT BASIS AT YOU E UEST.
11 00TOEER 1945
EXHIBIT 1.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
IN CIEAR
P1le 423
PRIORITY
Eoon & Se RCK/kms
12 OCTOBER 1945
FMs SCAP
121213
TO: WARTAG (FOR JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF) - PRIORITY
RE UEST PAOLINO GERLI CMA ONE NINETEEN WEST FORTY STREET
NEW YORK AND MISTER DOUTY OF UNITED STATES TESTING COMPANY HOBOKEN
BE RE UESTED TO COAE TO JAPAN FOR T IRTY DAYS TO ADVISE ON BASIS
UPON WHICH SIIK INDUSTRY IN JAPAN SHOUID BE DIRECTED EMA REESTAB-
LISH TECHNICAL ST..NDA DS SUITABLE FOR AMERICÁN TRADE CMA DISCUSS
PRICE AND STABILIZATION PLANS CMA TYPES CF SILK TO BE PRODUCED PD
DEPARTURE FROM UNITED STATES OONEST PD AIR PRIORITY
ZA -6846
OFFICIAL:
Approved by:
18/
R.C. KRALER
Colonel, GSc
Chief, Econ & Sc Section
B. M. FITCH
Brigadier Ganeral, U.S. Army
Adjutant General
Copies to:
0-1
AG
c/s
ESS (Return 7 copies)
IN CLEAR
EXHIBIT 2.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
OFFICE OF PRICE ADMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Offiee of the Adsinistrater
January 15, 1946
The Honorable
Daniel J. Flood
House of Representatives
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Flood:
This is to let you know that I have
signed the order decontrolling raw sils and sent it
to the Secretaryts office
fon ofricial publication.
Sincerely,
101
Cheater Bowles
Administrator
XHIBIT 3.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
DANIEL J. FLOOD
COMMITTEE:
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
HOME OPFICE:
1015 MINERS NATIONAL BANK
Congress of the United States
WILKES-BARRE, PENNGYLVABA
Douse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
Jammary 28, 1946
Honorable Chester Bowles, Administrator
Office of Price Administration
Washington, D. C.
Ly dear Mtr. Bowles:
I have just returmed to Washiptton after the recess
and recaived your letter with referenmy tb the silk price
exemption.
May I compliment you
the action taken by your
office, and I feel certain ib will aid materially in the goal
you strive to achieve through the OPA.
Sincerely yours,
10/
Daniel J. Flood, M.C.
DJF:ah
EXHIBIT 4.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
DMPERIAL JAPANESE TELEGRAPHS
WASHINGTON DC TO-360 65 13 1553
L PETER MAGAGNA HEAD UARTERS SUPREME COLGMANDER ALLILD
POWERS APO 5OO CARE PM TOKYO
OUR ORIGINAL PROPOSALS REAFFIRMED EY WAR STATE USCC STOP
MC ARTHUR ADVISED TODAY STO USCC WILL NET AUCTION
SILK HERE CONFTIMED IN PRESENCE OF ALL  P ESIDENT USCC
STOP KEEP FIGHTING FOR RIGHT I VYBACK YO THE LIMIT
STOP PLENTY ACTION
CONGRESSIAN DANIEL J. FLOOD
1 PA DISTRICT
112S SL
XHIBIT 5.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
.
WOMEN'S WRAR DAILXMFb 18 196
EXAGGERATED EARLY DEHAND FOR STLKS SEIN
Present conditions are quoted in the silk and rayon fabric marksts
as tending to favor an exaggerated demand for silk on the part of mills.
Chief reasons for this are not only that silk in any quantity has been
out of the domestic market for such a long time but also the lifting of
price restrictions on silks which have fomerly been "frosen" or had
dollar-and-cent ceilings - and more important still, the parmission
given mills to develop and weave silks outside of the MAp regulation.
Market speculation is that it is quite pqssible for prices of silk
goods to go completely out of bounds - as happened with luary hreaious
furs when ceiling on them were lifted last ymar
The govemment attitude is that th total amount will be mall anough
to be unimportant and because silk is completely a luwxary artiele, the high
prices paid for it do not necessariiy afect the cost of living for the
nation as a whole.
To what degree garment manufactarers will be able to use high-priced
silk goods and still stay within their MAf's is debatable. The answer
of course, rests entirely with the Anal yardage prices attached to silk.
Silk mills, however, exsbet a tremendous demand for it over the counter
in piece goods departments, eppecially in prints, chiffons, lingerie
silks and scarfs. Alrdady sibce the Lifting of OPA price control on
silk, silk scarfs have appeared in considerable quantity, all in the
higher price brackets, retailing from $5.95 for the cheapest to 12.50
and $13.50. Piece goods are not to be held down by price control on
silk items and will be free to purchase on a cost-plus basis, observing
the prescribed mark-ups.
EXHIHIT 6.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
Statistics were taken from several sources:
Department of Commerce data and statistics examined
before leaving Washington.
Statistics of the Commodity Exchange in New York.
Statistics of the law Silk Exmhange in New York prier
to its amalgamation with the Commodity Exmhange of
New York.
Silk Association statistics up to the time of its
amalgamation with Federated Taxtile Assodiation of
New York.
Yokohama and Tokyo Foreign
of Trade statistics
and year books.
Rayon Organon
"Japanese Trade Stydies" M Mtuth E. K. Peterson.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
Purpese of, reasons for, and advantages of having only
one single Raw Silk Testing House in Japan, and that
In Yekoham
26,1946
1. To have only one Testing House in Yokohame is most important for the
purposs of obtaining absolutely uniform mechanical and visual tests,
especially those of seriplane tests, and of the visual inspections.
2. The ahove said is most practical from the points of:
a. Absolute unification
b. Simplified supervision
c. Econamy and cheaper running expenses
d.
Important convenience for SCAP and the Japanese Government
with regard to their supervision, tho interpretation and
axecution of orders and directiyes issued by them, only a
short distance from CAP Gtit: and the Japanese Govermment.
e. Closest proximity to the shiprtng port of Yokohama.
3. Yokohama possesses excellent, moderfesting and storage facilities,
specially built for the purposes and far in exsess of requirements
for many years to come.
4.
In l897, two Japanese offietat testibg houses were opaned - one in
Yokohama, and the other iny Kobey That of Kobe was closed in 1902 dus
to the lack of business and expofts. In 1923, Yokohama was destroyed
by earthquake and fire, Kabe tried then again to accaparate Tokohama's
exports of raw silig anti an official testing house was reopened there.
It handled at first(about 60% of the total tests, which declined
gradually to only  before the outbreak of the war. Whereas Yokohama
was more than self-supporting, Kobe kept on making deficits that had
to be covered by Yokohama. It proves that between the two, Yokohama
is the more suitable place, and it stands to reason that it was only
a matter of time until Kobe would have had to be closed again.
Formerly, every exporter made and did business on his owm tests. These
tests vaiied so much fram one another, as to be to the detsiment of the
whole trade, in Japan and abroad; they created untold confusion in the
qualities. In addition, there was 10 to 12 testing houses in the U.S.
with no better results, causing still morse confusion. In January, l931,
the Japanese Government decreed that henceforth no business could be
transacted in Japan for export purposes, unless on the basis of the
official tests, to the grest satisfaction of domestic producers and
sonsumers abroad. Tnis forced also the testing houses in the USA to
go out of business one by one, until only the United States Testing
Company remained, eking a dwindling existence because American manu-
facturers found it less reliable than the official Japanese tests.
Even the New York SIIK XCHANGE admitted transactions and deliveries
on the basis of official Japan tests, until the outbreak of the War.
All this proves the reliability of the Japanese official tests .

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
6. The some reliahle, experiensed testers and inspesters still exist and
are available.
7.
Test-tiekets ean be sert to the United States by fastmail, arriving
well aheed of the goods. The manufactarere are thus plased in the
fortunate position of knewing well in advanee what is coming, to
melost what they want and to make their plans ascordingly, in geed
time; a sonsiderable fasility and & very impertant advantage, whish
no testing house in the United States can affer, or eompete with.
8. Conalusion: Only one offiaial Haw Silk Testing House is to be most
stsengly recommended for both Japan and abroad, and that only in
Yokohams, Japan, to be put into effect and operation without further
dolay.
J. Kom

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
13 June 1946
SUBJECT: Export Program for Silk Fabrics and Rayon Fabrios
To
: Chief, Economic and Scientific Section, GHQ, SCAP
1. An export program has been proposed and accepted, presupposing the
sale of great quantities of fabrics to world markets, particularly finished
ailk goods. Nevertheless, in making up the program nobody has had the fore-
sight to study tariffs that would be placed on these silk goods by the various
countries considered as potential customers. This has been overlooked, in
spite of the fact that the Import-Export Division is supposed to know all about
the ramifications of exporting.
2. Before the war Japan badly needed foreign exchange to build up her
war machine. She threw all thought of values to the four winds. She had silk
textiles of all kinds to sell, and with silk olling at a price average of two
dollars and a half per pound (2.50) her totak exportation of these fabries
was approximately sixty-four (64) million yen per year. With the yen being
worth about twenty-five (2) cents at that time m arrive at a figure of
sixteen million (16,000,000) dollars por year. Tariff barriers throughout
the world limited the quantities sold.
3. I had a great deal of contact ith the Customs Division of the United
States Treasury Department whep I served on various textile tariff committees.
In my opinion they will take the attftude that tariff duties will not be waived.
Undoubtedly, they will try to figure the tariff on the basis of raw silk at its
highest price. Unfortunataly, that has just been set by the sale of the surplus
raw silks of the ar Conwodity Reserves, and that price was twenty-three dollars
($23.00) per pound.
4. Therefore, it is impossible for Japan to dispose of silk piece goods
in the tramendous yardages now being contemplated. Certainly we lnow she can
ox ort to the countries that cannot pay for them and further have no intention
of paying for them, unless they borrow themoney from the United States to do so.
However, exportations of that kind do not help the Japanese or SCAP.
5. Already reat yardages of silk piece oods have bean seized and are
being held throughout the country. Additional silk yardage is being manufactured,
all for exg ort, and nothing has been done about the vital question of tariffs.
I urge that further production of silk piece goods or combination silk fabrics
for domestic or export use be drastically curtailed and that all efforts be made
to send that raw wilk to the United States where it will quickly build up dollar
exchange and relieve the tremendous shortages of fiber which is curtailing pro-
duction and causing unemployment, and because of the lack of consumer goods
is creating dangerous inflation in the United States.
6. It is the opinion of your silk Advisor that all raw silk of any type
whatsoever in Japan can be axported to the United States and will find ready
markets at good prices. The exgortation of this raw silk will aid tramendously
in stabilizing raw silk prices. It is idiculous at this particular time to

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
2
talk about "exportable qualities" when it is a well known fact that the
United States mills need and will use anything today. It is inequitable
to deprive them of its use. Certain of the personnel hating to do with
textiles, raw silk and blends have set their owm course as to what should
be used and what should not be used. It is regrettable that some af these
bleeding hearts who weep such tears over the plight of Japanese unemployment
have arbitrarily, and against directives, permitted mills to operate on that
premise. They have lost sight of the ali-important fact that there is un-
amployment in the United States because of a lack of these fibers, but more
particularly of the fact that these fibers and blends will accomplish a
greater good for the Japanese people as a whole by creating dollar exchange
to purchase badly needed food and other cormodities on world markets.
7. I recommend that the attached radio be dispatched immediately to
Washington to settle, if possible, this question of tariff, or better still,
that someone be sent to Washington at the earliest possible date to clear up
this matter of tariffs because so much hinges on it. It would be most advisable
that someone be sent who actually has had experience with the Customm Division
of the Treasury Department so that he can conduct necessary conferences and
come back with the right answer. It may be that some concessions may be
granted by the Treasury Department on silk yains or blended yarns of various
types because they are so badly needed in the United States just now. But
I seriously doubt if any concessions ml be made on fabric of any type due
to the protest of the various textils goeds producers.
3. Prior to 1929 Japan did enjoy the benefit of comparatively free
markets on silk piece oods to tke United tates, but in 1929 the Smoot-
Hawley Tariff Bill was passed that avernight wiped out these markets because
of the high duties this act imposed upon imported fabrics of all ty es. It
is most doubtful that any change can be made without action by Con ress and
the Senate.
9. If these piec goods cannot be exported to the United states they should
be disposed of partly through our post-exchan es, and I am quite sure a good
portion of this yardage can be disposed of by barter to other countries. How-
ever, if any such arrangements are made they should be carried out by experienced
persons so that we do not end up as we did with the silk eggs to Russia. In
other words, if we barter we mu t make sure without question of doubt that wo
receive whatever goods we have bartered for.
10. It is also recom ended that this str ngle hold of U.CC over the
exportation of commodities from Japan be immediately broken. It was their
stupid policies and recommendations that unfortunately were carried in con-
junction with Import- port t at las made it impossible to date to sell the
raw silk in the Uni ed States because of lack of testing. U Cc iaán the
osition of having nothing to lose on their recommendations and they are
victimizing CAP and the economy of Japan to try out their crack ot ex-
porimental ideas.
11. The following radio should be dispatched immediately to USCC forcing
them to sample the silk markets of the United States with the various types
of silk that they have over there. As I have stated, all raw silk presently

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
in the United States and in Japan as well as that now being predesed will gind
of silk, particularly the so-called "non-exportable" types in the lewer grades
and in the higher deniers such as 28, 42 and 68 deniers. They ean readily
sample the markets either through Textile Federation in New Terk or any ether
of the recognised associations such as the Silk Gulld in New Tork. In the
meantims, samples of all types of raw silk now in Japan should be dimpteshed
to these associations so that they can call in their members to examins the
types and they can therefore make their demands knowm to USCC and to SCAP
with the hope that very quickly some other method than working through UscC
will be found. At any rate, the quantities of raw silk that would thus be
made available in the lower grades and higher deniers would swell the total
volume of raw silk exports for the year 1946.
12. On the subject of these so-called exportable silks Uscc here in
Japan has contacted UsCC in Mashington who, in tum, contacted United States
Testing Company, a commercial testing company for advice as to types and
grades of raw silks required by the United States manufacturers. United States
Testing Company are not users of raw silk or kerohandisers of silk goods and,
therefore, have little or no knowledge as te the subject of sizes and grades.
It is unreasonable that their recommendations anould not only have been
followed here in Japan but have actually been fotsted on the Japanese to the
utter demoralization of the silk producting areas. It is such crackpot ideas
and directives that will wreck thig ocgapation and the policies of SCAP. This
should be changed immediately.
r. F. Magagna

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREVE COMIANDER POR THE ALLIED POWERS
D
R
APO 500
A
F
T
FROM
: SCAP
TO
WAICOS.... ROUTINE
IMFORMATION: U. S. COLMERCIAL COMPANY
THE ET STING UF RAW SILK IN THE UNIT D STAT  Y TIHE U.S. TESTING COMPANY
CONSTITUTS A CTTLNECK CF TH F FD AND ITICINCY WITH WHIC IIK SHOULD
MOVE PD IIE LK ADVISOR ST.TES THAT U.S. COMERCIAL COL ANY IS USING ONLY
CNE F THE TSTING COMPANI S TESTING SILK A IS ALSO USING U.S. TESTING
COMPANY TO DETENIIE MARKETS ND GRADE AND TYBE OF SILK MARKETS WILL USE PD
U.S. TESTING CU ANY IS. COMME CI TTINI COMPANY AND IN SO FAR AS TESTING
IS CONCE WED ANY UESTIONS C TH UIQT DIRECTED TO THEM HOST CENTAINLY WILL
MOT EC IV A UNDIAS.D ANSÉR IN THEY AE INTEESTED PEOPLE PD FURTHER
AS EG EDS THE A F TS U.S. TSTENG CUMPANY HAS N T THE RENOTEST IDE CONCERNING
THIS 3 THEY TITHER BUY SEL C LANUFACTURE SIIK CLOTH PD ANY STATEMENTS ON
THIS SCOLE THEY LAKE  RE THE RESULTS OF THE ATTITUDE OF A SALL SECMENT OF THEIR
CUSTOMERS PD SIIK ADVISOH STATS TIAT THE U.. T STING COM ANY DOES NOT RIPRESENT
THE IIK INDUS TRY FD SIIK INDU STHY SH UID B C NTACTED DIRECTLY THROUGH ITS
ACCREDITD CRADE ASSCCI TION SUCH AS THS TIK CUILD CMA FEDERALED TEX TILES
ASS CIATION CLA THE HOSI MRY ISTIIUTE AS WELL AS OCHER INTER TED GR UPS PD
YOUR HDED BY SOAP THAT TSTIR EY U.S. TESTIIG COHANY NOT ODLY CONSTITUTES
A FOTTLEN CY EUT AISO RADUCES PHG MONETARY HETURNS OF SCAP PD.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.93)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME CODLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
IN THE CLEAR
ESS/TD
WFH/HST/mm
DATE:
2 July 1946
FROM
1 SCAP
TO
I ARCOS. ... BOUTINE
INFORMATION: U. . CCAMERCIAL CONPANY
GUBJECT
: Raw Silk Testing
THE DPERIAL JAPANESE GOV RNIENT TESTIN HOUSE AT KOBE NOW TESTING
COMFLTELY CMA FOTH VISUAL AD M CHANICAE WO NUNDRED ND FIFTY BALES CF
 SILK DAILY CHA XPECT TO ACH FO AUNDD BALS DAILY HY UGUST FIRST
1946 PD THE YOKOHALA THPERIAL. JAP ANS GOVERBENT TSTING HOUSE VILL BEGIN
COPLETE TSTIG CA BOTH VIAL ND MHANICAL CMA BY ONE UGUST AT THE
RITE CF FIVE HUNDIRD DAILY PD TE TIG WILL RACH SIX HUNDRED BALES CF RAW
ILK DAILY BY ON SEPODER D AIL  SILK RECAFDLESS CF GRADE AND TYPE
ILL BE COPLTEY TESTND EE ND TESTING CERTIFICATS N SUCH TESTED SHIK
WILL EE FORARD D TO THE UNITED SP.TES BY AIITLAIL PD TESTING EQUIPMENT HAS
BEEN THO OUGHLY INSP T D AD F UD R BE I STIFACTCIY COIDITION CMA
THEFOE CMA IT ILL BE FOSSIELE  LL R SIIK IN THE E YORK MARKET
ON TIHE DASIS OF GUA ANTLEED IHPRIAL JAP S GOVERLLTT TESTS IN THE SANE
MAN AS BFONE FL PD TESTL CI IN THE UNITED STATES CMA
SUCH S U. TSTIG COLPANY EE USD ONLY FO CHLECK TESTING CMA ARBITRATION
CMA AID FOR SPLCIAL KINDS CF TESTS ID ANY CH NIS WHICH YOU BELIEVE NECESSARY
T BE ADE T THE JAPANSE GR DIR D TESTIRY SPECIFICATIONS TO MAKE THEM
STHRIOTER SHOUID BS FOR RD D T SOAT WHO VILL ILAV UCE CHANGES INCO PORATED
INTO THE JAPANESE TSTING PHOCEDU E T CNCE PD SILK ADVISOR TATES THAT

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
1
AN OFFER HAD BEEN MADE BY THE SILK DEPATMENT OF THE COMMODITY EICHANGE OF
NEW YORK TO SELL RAW SILK FOR THE WAR DEPA TMENT PD THEY WILL SELL IT AT GP
AUCTION SUIJECT TO ANY CONTHOLS PD THIS PROPOSAL HAS ALREADY BEEN SENT TO
STATE DEPARTMENT AS OF LAST MARCIH TWENTY EIGHTH PD IF THIS PROPOSAL ACCEPTABLE
IT SHOULD ELIAINATE ANY FURTHER FOTTLENECKS OF FETESTING AND WILL BLDINATE
CUMEE SOME UNSATISFACTORY MLTHOD OF SEALED BID SELLING WHICH STAGNATES THE
MOVHMENT IN U.S. OF THIS BADLY EEDED COLDITY ANDDLAYS ACCUMULATION OF
HADLY EED D DOLLAR EXCHANGE PD FOR YOUE INFOR ATION COLLJODITY E CHANGE IS
UNDER SUP VISION OF SEC FD SINCE U.S. TSTING CUM ANY IS A COMMERCIAL TESTING
CIGANIZATION AND THLREFORE VITALLY INTERSTED IN THE UESTION OF SECURING FOR
LSEIVES TESTING CONTACTS AND FURTHER SINCE D. TESTING DOES NOT REPRESENT
TH INDUSTRY ND IAS ONLY HEA S Y KATIGE CF MAHKETS ACCEPTARLE GR DES ETC
CHA SCAP CA NCT UNDE STAID HY THEY LY ARE CUNSULTED ON AL OF THESE ABOVE
VITA LATTERS PD WHY ISNT INDUSTH CONTACTD DIRECTLY THRCUGH ITS ACCREDITED
TIADE ACI TIONS SUCH A IN DÍD CHA FDERALTED PESTILES CMA COMODITY
EXCHANGE CHA HOSIY ISTITUE  L AS OHERS PD YOU ARE REINDED THAT
TESTING BY U.S. T. STIIG OOM ANY OT CHLY CON TITUTES A BOTTLENECK BUT REDUCES
THE N T RY TU N T SCA
Latest draft rewritten 7/3/46

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRIME COLMLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
13 June 1946
SUBJECT: Payment for Export Commodities in Kind.
TO:
Chief, Economic and Scientific Section, GHQ, SCAP
1. After a series of conferences held with leading Japanese silk
industrialists, who are well knomm and recognized as authorities on the
subject, both in Japan and the United States, the only conelusion that
can be arrived at is that the raw silk industry of Japan is deteriorating
rapidly because of the lack of a woll organised and definite policy.
Imediate action must be taken to remedy this condition, to revive the
industry and to regain the ground that has been lost.
2. Cocoon farmers and the producers of maw silk have not been placed
in a position to receive in kind remuneration qual at least to their
expenditures and efforts. These silk people advise that they are en-
countering great difficulty in purchasing silk pioce goods and raw silk
for axport, and that the supplies are arying up at the source. kulberry
acreage is being destroyed and the fiside are being diverted to the growing
of food products for self use and the back market. Therefore, Japan's
greatest single source of dollar exchange is being destroyed and the
largest non-war potential on a sentinuiag basis is also being destroyed.
3. If this trand continties thre will be nothing to offset the cost
of occupation. It is doubtful that the American people will ish to spend
the money necessary to pontinue the occupation. The fact that the United
States could not contimu a spccessful occupation after the magnificent
invasion and oocupation by Geheral MacArthur would be indeed disastrous
to the prestige of the Amariean people at this time when more than ever
the United States is the keystone and hope of the world for the maintenence
of future peace.
4. Cne way to recover lost ground quickly and the one way that I have
continually advocated is that interim payments be made to the Japanese
producers both in the essential commodities they need and in yen. This
will give a great incentive to the Japanese people whom we have promised
assistance and liberation under the declaration of Potsdam.
5. Since the start of the silk industry in Japan it has been the
custom of the reeling mills to erect domitories and bring to the factories
the required operatives. Fart of their increment has always been in the
form of food and lodging. This system ahould be expended to permit payment
in kind in other fields of the silk industry.
6. Let us revert to this principle and utilize the canned food of all
types that is stored here and is now deteriorating, and mechanical equipmant
of all types badly needed by the agriculturists and which is stored here
and on adjacent islands. Why not collect them and barter them to the
producers of silk. A system could be set up without too much difficulty

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
2
in the various silk-producing prefectures so that equitable barter precedure
sould be carried out for both silk and silk piece goods. The same patters
sould be adopted for various other commodities that are actuslly in the
country but are not coming out to the markets because of the inequitable
arrangements now in force for making payments.
7. All of this food and mechanical equipment is rapidly deterierating
and it is not worth the effort or expense to re-ship it to the United States.
Why destroy these things as Mr. Royall su gested, or why sell them to the
Philippines or China for virtually little or nothing. We badly need silk
and silk fiber in the United States. This arrangement would be an equitable
arrangement and would bring immediate results. The job of the American peeple
and the American forces is a successful occupation of Japan for the future
peace of the world. lie should not hesitate or delay action in any way if
that action will serve to assist this occupation. It is irrefutable that the
aims of the war and the Potsdam declaration are now being defeated. We are
literally and by indirect method violating the Potsdam Agreement by seisure
of commodities of various kinds. The indirect mathod we use is SCAP direetives
to the Japanese Government to make these seisures. These seisures are made
and proper provisions are not taken to see that an equitable return is made
to the original producers.
8. The actions outlined above wiar have a salutory effect on the Japanese
producers of not only silk but of evexy sther commodity.
9. During ten months of ocoupation in a country that did have and still
has large stocks of non-war commodities for export the Import-Export Division
under the direction of Mr. R. May, hes not utilized properly these potentials.
As a result, we find today that littie or no dollar exxchange has been created.
The only axshange that hae Been created has been by seisure of Japanese liquid
assets both hereand in the United States.
10. Unfortunately, the morst element in this situation is that the methods
unwisely embarked upon have literally disorganized the entire industrial and
agricultural life of Japan. These methods will make the accuulation of
exportable commodities more difficult, since the sources of supply have become
alarmed at the inequitable methods set up for payment. It is becoming more
difficult each day to secure these necessary commodities for dollar exchange.
11. Anyone making a careful study of this situation must come to the
same conclusion. Therefore, it is necessary that immediate steps be taken to
right this condition.
P. F. Magagna

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
DRAFT
GENBRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTOOING MESSAGE
IN THE CLEAR
ESS/ PFM/RAH/mna
DATE: 17 June 1946
FROM: SCAP
TO:
WARCOS
UBJECT IS DUTY ON TEXTILE CLOTHS
IT IS URGENT THAT CUST(M DEPA TMENT
BE LMEDI TELY CONTACTED REG: RDING DUTY ON ITK CLOTHS, MIXED SILK CLOTHS
AD OTHER CLOTHS PD WHAT C URSE OF ACTT WILL THEY TAKE CONCERNING DUTY
ON PIECE GOODS PD ANSWER IS URGENT SCAUSE IT AFFECTS ENTIRE JAPANESE
EXPORT PROGRAM PD IF ECESSARY SOA WILLSEND COMPETENT PE SONNEL FROM
HERE TO DEFINITELY SETTLE UDSTION AD
Approved by:
W. F. MARQUAT
Major Genoral, U.S. A my
Chief, ESS
OFFICIAL:

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARPERS
SUPHEME COMMANDER POR THE ALLIED POWERS
Boonomie and Scientific Section
APO 500
19 Jume 1946
ADMINISTRATIVE OFOER)
NUMBER
TEXTILE DIVISION
1. The Textile Division of the Economic and Saientifio Section is
hereby created with functions and responsibilities as outlined below:
a. Advises, recommends and supervises all matters relating
to the operation and control of the textile manufacturing industry of
Japan. Textiles as used herein includes spinning, reeling, weaving,
braiding, and knitting of all textile fibers and yaram, finishing
(including coating) of fabrics, and fabrication of textiles into
finished articles of which the textile matarial is the major component.
Allied with textiles in this Division, for purposes of administration,
are hides, leather, skins, furs and manufactures pkoreof, buttons and
other closures and findings.
b. Advises and recommanda
the distribution of the available supply of textile raw materials and
finished products. Advises Import Ex ort Division as to kinds, types
and quantities of textile raw(paterials and finished products that could
be made available for export. Trunajers control over export portion of
aupply to Import-Export Diyision for sale and further disposition.
c. Advises ad recphmends policies for establishing levels of
production of all kinds af textiles and related products conaistent with
the policies of the occupation.
d. Advises and recommends upon the type og govermment controls
over operations and capacity required so that the industry may not exxeed
the desired levels of production.
e. Advises on and recommends comprehensive programs for domestio
production and domestic distribution of all kinds of textiles to include
necessary controls and releases of products.
f. Supervises the production of all textiles covered by special
agreements between the War Department, USCC, and any other U. S. Government
agency.
.F. MAR UAT
Major General, U. S. Army
Chief, ESS

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.93)
4
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
D
IN THE CLEAR
R
A
KSS/ PFIG/ RAH/mmm
F
DATB: 25 J 1946
T
FROM
 SCAP
TO
WARCOS
INFORMATION: U. S. COMMERCIAL COPANY
REQUEST THAT YOU SEND IMGAEDI TELY TO THE SILK QILD CMA THE FEDERATED
TEXTIE ASSOCI TION CMA THE HOSIERY INSTITUTE CLA THE COLMODITY EXCHANGE
CMA ALL LOCATED IN NE YORK CA ND
ARE POTENTIAL USERS UF SILK CMA SAMPLE OF ALL TYPES AND GRADES OF SILK
STORED IN THE UNITED STATES AND JAPN AND ALSO BEING MANUFACTURED IN
JAPAN PD SILK ADVISOR PHLIEVES FORIT TWO DENIER SILK ACCEPTABLE ON THE
DENIER HERE PD.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
DITHE CLAR
ESSI
PFM/RAH/mGa
DATE: 26 June 1946
FROM
: SCAP
TO
: WARCOS
INFORMATION: U. S. COMMECIAL CCMPANY
REOURAD
SIIK ADVISOR FEELS THAT IN ADDITION TO AIL
ALRICAN MARKETS CMA LATIN AMETICAN AND EUROPEAN MARKETS SHOULD ALSO
HAVE SAMP LES OF ALL TYPES AND GRADES OF SILK STORED IN THE UNITED
STATES AND JAPAN AND ALSO BEING MANUFACTRED IN PAN PD ESPECIALLY
SAMPLE SKEINS OF FORTY TWO DEMIER C
ARE TEN TO TWENTY THOUSAND BAL  THA DENIERNAILABLE IN JAPAN.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
Kebe Daperial Japanese Government Testing House now testing complete
both visual and mechanical 250 bales raw silk daily - expested to reash
400 bales da1ly by 31 July, 1946. Already
bales have been tested.
Yokoham will begin complete testing both visual and mechanieal by
at rate of
daily. Testing to reach
bales of raw silk daily
by
. All raw silk regardless of grade and type will be completely
tested here and testing certificate will be forwarded by airmail.
Testing equipment has been thoroughly inspected by SCAP officials and
by Japanese silk testing technicians and found to be in first class condi-
tion. Therefore, it will be possible to sell to New York markets on guaranteed
imperial tests. This breaking the bottleneck of U.S. Testing Company retesting
of all allk in the United States. Silk Adviaor states that U.S. Testing Company
only.
In the past silk mas sold(on basis of Japanese testing certificates, which
U.S. Testing Company and gthers wore used only for chock testing.
specifications should be forwarded to SCAP who will put such changes into
effect at once.
Since U.S. Testing Company is a commercial testing orgenisation and
therefore n interested party we do not understand why Uscc contacts them
relative to markets and tests. They do not represent the industry. Why isn't
industry contacted dircctly through its accredited trade association such as
Silk Guild, Federated Textiles and Hosiory Institute as well as other.
You are reminded that testing by U. S. Testing Company not only con-
stitutes a bottleneck but also reducos the monetary return to SCAP.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
COPX OE CABLBGRAM PROM MAGAGNA
1946 JUNE 27 AM 11:33
WC 183 PN 2496/JR 2439 TOKYO 301 RCA 27 115S
CONGRESSMAN DANIEL FLOOD
OLD HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING WASHINGTON DC
REFER YOUR RADIO 6 MARCH I CCNSIDER IMPERATIVE NO SEALED BID SALES
SHOUID BE HEID SOP CONSIDER YOU SHOUL HOLD UP THIS ACTION STOP
ONCE AND FOR ALL LETS SETTLE THESE THINGS HAVE PATTERSON RADIO THAT
I ASSDLILATE RANK OF GENERL OFFICER STOP RE FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
PLACE SHOULD LE LMADE ON AME ICAN SIDE FOR TEXTILE AND FAR EASTERN
EXPERT YSELF STOP FOOLING AROUND GET ACTION THN MAKEUP OF THE
AMEHICAN SIDE COMMISSION GET . LITTI B
OF SOUND BUSINESS THINKING
ON IT AGAIN MYSELF STOP YOU HAVE MISD ERSTOOD I HAVE SEEN FORTY TWO
DENIER AND CLOTH THERE ARE THIRTY THCUSAND BALES HERE NEITHER AME ICAN
MARKETS OR WORID MARKETS HAVE SEED SAMPLES RAW FORTY TWO DENIER USCC HAS NOT
SAMPLD THESE MARKETS (INSIST THEY DO SO IMMEDLATELY STOP THEY ARE AGRKEING
WITH ME HERE SONETHING SHOULD BE DONE TO REPLACE USCC IMEDIATELY STOP GET
SOME SOUND THIN ING AND PLAMNING AS PER LETTER SENT YOU STOP IF NECESSARY
I CAN COME OVER TO HEIP GET SOMETHING CONCHETE SHAP D UP STOP PLEASE REVIEW
CAREFULLY MY SILK PROGRAM STOP WRITING YOU FULLY BUT DONT WAIT GET INTO
ACTION.
P F MAGAGNA

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COLGLANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
IN THE CIEAR
ESS/TD
WFM/HST/mna
DATE:
2 July 1946
FROM
 SCAP
TO
I WARCOS... . ROUTINE
INPORMATIONI U. S. COLMECIAL COMPANY
SUBJECT
: Raw Silk Testing
THE DMPERIAL JAPANESE GOVERILIENT TESTING H USE AT KOBE NON TESTING
COMPLETELY CMA BOTH VISUAL AND LECHANICAL TWO,HUNDRED AND FIFTY BALES OF
RAW SIIK DAILY CWA EXPECT TO  EACH FOUR HUNDRED BALES DAILI BY AUGUST FIRST
1946 PD THE YOKOHAMA DAPERIAL JAPANESE QVERNMENT TESTING HOUSE WILL BEGIN
COMPLETE TE TING CMA BOTH VISUAL ANDMAANICAL CMA BY ONE AUGUST AT THE
RATE OF FIVE HUNDRLD DAILY PD TESTING NL PEACH SIX HUNDRED BALES OF RAW
SIIK DAILY BY ONE SEPT MBER H ALL RJW SILK REGARDLESS OF GRADE AND TIPE
WILL BE COMIL TELY TESTE HERE AD TSTING CERTIFICATES ON SUCH TESTED SILK
WILL BE FORVIAIDED T TNA UNITD STATES BY AIRA IL PD TESTTNG EQUIPMENT HAS
BEEN THOHOUGHLY INSP ECTED AND FOUND TO BE IN SATISF CTORY CONDITION CMA
THERE ORE CMA IT WILL BE POSSIELE TO SELL RAW SILK ON THE NEW YORK MARKET
ON THE BASIS OF GUARANTEED IM ETIAL JAP ANESE GOVERNMENT TESTS PD BEING ABLE
TO SELL BAS D ON JAPANESE TESTS WILL BREAL THE BOTTLENECK NOW EXISTING IN
THE UNITD STATES WHEYE LETLSTING F ALL STLK HAS T BE DONE PD IN THE
PAST IK WAS SOLD ON THE ASIS OF JPANESE TESTING CERTIFICATES MHILE
TESTING COMPANIES IN THE UNITLD STATES CMA SUCH AS U.S. TESTING COMPANY
WERE USED ONLY FOR CHECK TESTTNG CMA ARBITR TION CMA AND FOR SPECIAL KINDS
OF TESTS PD ANY CHANGES WHICH YOU BE TEVE NECESSARY TO BE MADE IN THE

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.95)
*2*
JAPANKSE GRADING AND TESTING SPECIFICATION TO MAKE THEM STRIOTER SHOUID
BE POHWARDED TO SCAP WHO WILL HAVE SUCH CHANGES INCORPORATED INTO THE
JAPANESE TESTING PROCEDURE AT ONCE.
SILK ADVISOR STATES THAT AN OFFER HAS BEEN MADE EY THE SILK DE ARDENT
OF THE COM DITY XCHANGE OF NE YORK TO SHL THE SILK BASED ON JAPANESE
LMPERIAL TESTING COIUPANY TESTS PD THEY WILL SELL IT AT OPEN AUCTION SUBJECT
TO ANY CONTROLS PD
THIS PROPOSAL HAS ALREADY BEEIN SENT TO STATE DEPARIMENT AS OF LAST
MARCH 2STH PD IF THIS PHOPOS L ACCEPTABL: IT SHOULD ELIMINATE ANY PURTHER
BOTTLENECKS OF RETESTING AND ILL ELIIINATE CUMBERSOME UNSATISFACTORY
MAHKET OF SE LED BID SELLING WHICH ST GNATES THE OVEMENT CF THIS BADLY
NE DED COMODITY PD.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.94)
BRITISH EMBASSY.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
August 27, 1946
L
Dear Mr. Whitman,
894.6552/8-2746
Japanese Silk
I noticed ir a recent Associated Press dispatch
from Tckyo the statement that the first shipment of silk
cloth from Japan since the Japanese surrender is said to
be scheduled to leave for the United States before the end
of August. You will recall that in my letter of August 6
I drew to your attenticn the fact that the U.K. may possibly
be interested in supplies of thrown silk. I should oe
grateful for any information you can let me have regarding
the quantities which may be available for export, as well
as any plans which have been made regarding the destination
of these exports.
Yours sincerely,
Ame
O ocsugal
M. McDougali,
CS/V
MMcD:ms
Raw Materials Section
Mr. R. Whitman,
State Department,
d 9/3/4 6 is je
FILED
901 - 1818 "H" Street,
hashington, D.C.
1946
cc: H.A. Graves
1

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
SEP 5 1946
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/8-2746
My dear Mr. MeDeugall:
It is our understanding that SCaP has made the export target for
silk fabries 78,000,000 sq. yds. for the 1ast half of 1946. Mowever,
no silk fabrics had been experted from Japan this year up to Aagust l4
and om that date SCAP reported that 5,000,000 yds of habatae were avail-
able for early shipment. Sabsequently, there was the press anmeuneememt
to this offeet to whish you refer im your letter of Augass 27.
Although SCAP has been authorised to ship habutae and silk lining
fabries to the U.S. and arrangements fer such shipments are being made,
if the U.K..interest in ailk fabrics was made known to SCaP by your
liaison mission in Tokyo we believe there would be mo difficulty in
arranging purehases.
Sineerely yours,
Rosswell H. Whitman
CSN
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs.
Mr. M. MeDougall,
A true coby f
Raw Materials Sestion,
the slgned orki-
British Embassy,
nal.
Washington 8, D.C.
JK:a1g7bcb)N/N
SEP
9/3/46
4 1940

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
43
In reply refer to
JX
894.6552/8-2846
xy dear Mr. Sohneeberger:
This is in answer to your letter of Auguas 28,
1946 requesting advice on how the Swiss firm, De
Sohulthess & Company, silk exports, can be permitted
to ship from Japan silk that was purohased in early
1941.
At the present time all alien property in Japan
is blocked with the exoeption of certain classes of
property such as houses which the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers has been authorised to release
to persons in Japan for their own use. Consideration
is now being given to a poliey which would permit
restoration to non-Japaness of other types of property,
including merchandise purchased for export before
December 7, l94l. Inter-Allied agreement must be
obtained before the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Fowers can be permitted to release such property.
It is hoped that in a few months such an agree.
ment can be reached. In the meantime it might be noted
CS/V
that the pre-war Japanese silk did not deteriorate suf-
ficiently to prevent its ready sale in United States
markets. Is is trusted that no serious loss will ocour
to De Sohulthess & Company during the period required
for a deoision on this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Edwin M. Wartin, Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Roonomic Affairs
Mr. Ernst Schneeberger,
Sccond Secretary,
2/8-28
Legation of Switserland,
8E1
Washington, D. C.
18 AUP
JK:RHWhitman:emh 9-3-46
WB
JA
Le
f.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
2900 CATHEDRAL AVE., N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
Please refer to file
No.
H.249 N1/1b
August 28, 1946
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAD
Mr. E. M. Marten, Chief
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Division of Japanese-Korean
DEPARTENT OF STATE
Economic Affairs
Department of State
AUG 291946
894.6552/8-2846
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Marten:
I should appreciate your advice in a case
which was brought to my attention by Mr. A. Kobelt
of the Charles Rudolph Corporation, 220 East 42nd
Street, New York, N. Y.
During the first half of 194l the Swiss raw
silk exporters, De Schulthess & Co., Yokohama, pur-
chased 38 bales of Japan raw silk for shipment to
Switzerland. Subsequent developments made it impos-
sible to ship the merchandise abroad and it 1s still
stored in the warehouse of De Schulthess & Co. in
Yokohame.
Several attempts to obtain permission to
ship the silk from Japan have been unsuccessful. On
February 19 the SCAP denied the request of De Schult-
hess & Co. "in light of current regulations restrict-
ing Japanese foreign trade to a government to govern-
ment basis and permitting no private commercial trade
at this time". The representative of De Schulthess &
CS
Co. in Japan, Mr. Max Pestalozzi, a Swiss citizen,
again approached the SCAP in this matter on June 6,
6/V
1946, unt11 now, without success.
Mr. Pestalozzi feels that the shipment for
which permission is requested cannot be regarded as
"foreign trade with Japan" in the light of the fol-
lowing explanations:
E
1
The 38 bales Raw Silk are recognized Swiss
ED
property, the owners being de Schulthess &
8
Co., Zurich. Switzerland, Swiss raw siik
merchants;
7
have been paid for by remittance from Swit-
6552
zerland prior to the outbreak of the war in
the Pacific;
2846

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
not being Japanese property sale to the
Japanese Government does not enter into
the picture; no domestic or foreign finan-
cial transaction is involved in the ship-
ment;
were bought by De Schulthess & Co., Yokohama,
for account of de Schulthess & Co., Zurich,
in Spring 1941.
In view of the fact that the silk cannot be
stored much longer without serious deterioration, it
would seem to be a case of real hardship if shipment
could not be granted. I should be very grateful for
your information on whether the current regulations
allow the granting of export permission in such a case
and for your advice as to what the appropriate steps
would be in order to obtain such permission. If any
further explanations should be desired, Mr. Niehans of
this Legation would be glad to discuss the matter with
you or any one you may suggest.
Yours very truly,
For the Charge d'Affaires a.1.
of Switzerland:
Iduukiu
Secretary of Legation

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP019
In reply refer to
JX
My dear Mr. Eaig:
This is in reference to our telephone conversa-
tion of September 3, 1946 concerning an informal meeting
of representatives of interested governments on the
export of raw silk from Japan. The meeting is to be
held at 10:00 a.m., 1n my ofr100, Room 215, 1818 H.
89
Street, 3eptember 9.
94.6552/9-646
The topics to be covered at the meeting inolude:
1. How should each country's quota be divided
up between the various grades of raw silk?
This issue is the most important of all
since the better grades of silk are most in
demand.
2.
Can and should arrangements be made whereby
importing countries with differing require-
ments trade allocations of various grades?
To illustrate, for example, India might get
togother with ustralis and New Zealand to
adjust their grade quotas.
3. Before the war New Zealand purohased its raw
CS/A
silk through Australia. How should a quota
be established for New Zealand?
Is it correct to set prices for each purohasing
country on the basis of the last sale of raw
silk in this country by the United States
Commeroial Company?
In
7
Mr. M. O. A. Baig,
First Seoretary,
Indian Agency General,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.93)
- 2-
In addition the United States Commeroial Company
whom I have asksd to attend this meeting may be able te
give the group more information about the progress of
silk sales in the United States.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman,
Associate Chief
Divislon of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
A /true
the
1o1.
R/cm
JK:RHWhitman:emh 9-4-46

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
11-M
Tokyo
JK
ESP
Action:
Dated September ll,
Lofo:
FE
SECRET
0916|5:35 ρ.m..
2th
/L
2953
SP
Contro1 3916
DIVISION OF JAPANESE A
946 SEP 13
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
-H
io paraphrase
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
POLICY
CSTATE
AM 9.21
PRIORITY
Tong
Septemben1
894.6552/9-11
wenk
P Frederiek Magagne (PrMEPTEL l29 February6
aenv aa WAR SvC C758 and Dept's ConfidentiaT mail
instrvebion 87 or Pebruary 13) as a result of his
310
recent public eocusations coneerning SCAP officials
anc. Dnived Seatoa tommerels1 Combany, has been under
Rig'nx coolieontialScAp lavestigation. During course
ór :uventigation the mesoranda or convereation enelosed
vith Dept's instruotion under reference and mantioned
in velegrem under reference necesaarily came to attention
of cpproprinte investigating officials. In effort
to establish when Hagagne Cirst began to take exeep-
t on to United States Commercial Company polieies,
investigating officiels reed to Magegna certain extracts
from the memovanda in which Magsgne is recorded as
expressing strong opposition to United States Commereial
Company distribution of Jap silk in United States.
Magagus, who stated to investigeting officials that
his objection to United Statea Commereial Company began
In May arter his arrival in Japan, characterized the
statements attributed to him in the memorande as "highly
inaccurate and malicious" and as "highly frregular
on the part of somo nembar of the State Department"
Pe asked thet he be given copies of the memoranda
or identifging data in order that "an investigation in
Confidential File
Vashington" could be made.
Megagne has apnroached us and esked that Dept give
OC:151946
copies of
FILED
SECHET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRFT
-2- "400, Fentem er 11, from Tokyo
copies of memorunda to Congressman Flood. We informed
hin that for purposes of record memoranda are customarily
made of important conversations, thst we are not at
liberty to give him couies of classified documents,
that the menoranda in uestion vere of conversations
held on November 1 1945 ond January 1º, 1946 and
that no further identifying syubols are necessary.
Reports of the iniest gation of Hagagne end his
charges are be ing telepraphed by SCAp to the Secretary
ofar
ATCFPSON
STTL:JB
PECRET

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
JK
SEP 121946
My dear Mr. Schieck:
This is in reference to prices to be charged pur-
chasers of Japanese raw silk when such purohases are
part of quotas established by Inter-Allied agresment.
894.6552/9-1246
The price is determined by the most recently
establiahed United States price for the same type and
grade. When the United States price is established by
sealed bid method the price should be the weighed
average United States price for the same type and
grade.
Intor-Allied negotiations with respect to es-
tablishing quotas by grades is now proceeding and the
U. S. Commerolal Company will be instruoted as to any
agreements which would effect sales by the U. 3.
Commercial Company to other countries.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whi tman,
Associate Chief
Division ofJapmese nd Korean
CS/ V
Economic Affairs
Mr. Dewitt C. Sohieck,
President,
SEM
U. S. Commeroial Company,
Washington 25, D. C.
SL. 1
1946PM
814.6552/
2Am
JK:RHWhitman:emh 9-10-46
19-12%

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
C
ne
0
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Fil
P
Y
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
894.6552
one
DATB: September 23, 1946
SUBJECT:
Silk Quotas
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. McDougall, British Rmbassy; Mr. Habert, French Economic Mission;
9-2346
Mr. Cronin, New Zealand Supply Mission; Mr. Trout, USCC;
Mr. Whitman, State, JK; Mr. Paige, State, JK.
COFIES TO:
The participants,
Mr. Banerji
(India Agency)
Col. Hartman
(CAD)
Mr. Martin
(JK)
This meeting was a sequel to the one held on September 9, 1946.
Mr. Whitman distributed a table prepared by USCC showing the number of bales
of various deniers and grades each country would be entitled to purchase under the
previously announced percentage quotas,.assuming the export target of 130,000 bales
is reached and that the unshipped portion proves to have the same composition by
grade and denier as the shipped portion. It was emphasized that this table had been
C
prepared merely to illustrate what the quotas percentages might mean in terms of
S
numbers of bales; distribution of the table did not imply that countries had now
been given quotas consisting of specific nu  ars of bales of the various grades and
deniers. The table also indicated approximately what the result would be if
(1) India's allotment of high grade silk was transferred to Australia and New Zealand;
(2) India's quota was raised at the expense of United States, France and the United
Kingdom to permit procurement of 15,000 bales, all grade C and below.
2
Mr. Habert and Mr. McDougall stated that they could not approve the Us broposal
that Australia and New Zealand obtain their quotas--1.3 % of the total xportprogram-
all in the scarce high grade silk unless it was clear that this could bdondwrithout
depriving France and the U.K. of any of their requirements in the grade Information 
contained in the table prepared for the meeting did not permit an answer to this
552
question.
No objection was raised to the proposal that India be given an allocation of
15,000 bales all grade C and below.
19-2346
After

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
After extended discussion of many aspects of the problem Mr. Whitman stated
he realised that the matter was complicated but that he was inclindd to the view
that the Australian requirement of i00 bales per month all Grade A or better,
13/15 denier should be met and that New Zealand should be permitted to prooure up
to 200 to 250 bales of this quality silk with proviso that other deniers would be
explosed as alternatives. He stated that it seemed reasonably clear that Australia
and New Zealand could be taken care of in this way without depriving either France
or the U.K. of their proportionate share of this high quality silk and he proposed
to advise SCAP accordingly.
Mr. Whitman pointed out that the methods by which silk is allocated to the
various markets could appropriately be raised by any government dissatisfied with
present methods at a meeting of the Allied Trade Board which it now appears will be
set up on the near future.
JR:RUPaige:bcb
H
9/24/46

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.96)
S271946
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/9-2346
My doar Mr. McDougall:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
17
Indian, Australian, and Ne Zealand dlk quota problems.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
CS/V
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Enclosure:
9-2346
594.6552
Copy of Ninutes.
894.6552
A tnpe copy os
the sluked engh
nai.
Mr. G. E. M. McDougall,
British Embassy,
/9.2346
Washington, D.C.
RNm
JK:RMPaigezbcb
9/26/46

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
r07106
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Colonel Hartman:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
Indian, Australian, and New Zealand silk quota problems.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman,
Associate Chief,
Division of Japanese and Korean
Enclosure:
Economic Affairs
Copy of minutes.
Lt. Colonel R. F. Hartman,
d ortgl
NF
War Department,
946
Civil Affairs Division,
The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.
JK:Ruraige:bcb
9/26/46

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.97)
SE 71946
S27 46
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Lieutenent Habert:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
Indian,Australian, and New Zealand silk quota problems.
Sineerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Enclosure:
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Copy of Minutes.
Lieutenant Roger G. Habert,
  1946
Chief, Leather and Textiles Division,
A rue copy of
the ned origi-
French Economic Mission,
nai.
1711 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D.C.
JK:RMPaige:bcb
9/26/46

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
SFD 271946
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Colonel Powlos:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
Indian, Australian, and New Zealand silk quota probloms.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economie Affairs
Enclosure:
Copy of Minutes.
SEP 27 1946
Colonel G. R. Powles, First Seeretary,
A. true copy of
New Zealand Legation,
the adgned origl-
nal
19 Observatory Cirele,
Washington, D.C.
JK!RMPaige:bcb
9/26/46

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
SED 271946
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Mr. Trout:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
Indian, Australian, and New Zealand silk quota problems.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Enclosure:
Copy of Minutes.
A the copy of
e
SEP 27 1946
Mr. W. H. Trout, Chief,
ostgi-
Commersial Transactions Division,
U.S. Commorcial Company,
Tempo "T Building,
Washington 25, D.C.
JK:RuPaige:bcb
9/26/46

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.97)
SFP27194
In reply refer to
JX
My dear Mr. Balloak:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conferense in my office last Monday on the
Indian, Australian, and New Zealand silk quota problems.
Sineerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Eeonomic Affairs
Enclosure:
Copy of Minutes.
Mr. H. W. Bullock, Third Secretary,
Australian Embassy,
Mashington, D. C.
9/26/46

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
30154b
In reply refer to
JK
My dear Mr. Banerji:
I enclose for your information a copy of the memorandum we
prepared following the conference in my office last Monday on the
Indian, Australian, and New Zealand silk quota probloms.
Sincerely yours,
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Enclosure:
Copy of Minntes.
à trup copy o?
ted origl
IndianAgent Generel,
2107 Massachusetts Ave.,
Washington, D.C.
JK:RMPaite:bcb
9/26/46

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
CHARGE SLIP
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARG TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remarks
八
--6-46
1
U.S. GOVERRNXNT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1433

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.89)
6o
BRITISH EMBASSY,
OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
YOMIC AFFAIRS
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
FNT OF STATE
October 3, 1946
-11946-7 10
Mr. R. Whitman.
State De artment,
201 - 1918 "H" Street.
Washin ton, D.C.
Dear ar. Whiteen,
silk
Ar. cloucl. has frem time to time diseussed with you
894.6552
the way in whien the allocaticn of Jar anese siik to the United
Kin dem in to be divided as to grades and deniers. I understand
that it is th wish of vour Government that so far as possible
the recicient ccuntri-s sreuiu accet their share of the exports
from Jupan bre ken down as t. frades and deniers in the same pro-
rortion us the rades und deniers cecur in total Jaranese exports.
52/10-346
After  cureful examitation of the United Kingaom re-
tuirements and pteens, the Eoard of Trade find toit they will be
unvtir to wree to tris su, pesticn fer the following reasons:
(a) H.l.C. stil. hold ccnsiaerable stecas of Eurovean and
Mioure t t eire weich wae tourht for war purooses and
which wi have t be baorbee by the U.a. trude. These
stoeas re rmeet entireey low prade zoy e2 denier and cen-
o enliy the Unita si de ro airmento fer Japenese raw
silk wi be wimost whoiry For hosiery. T is is in contrast
to the U.s. re pirument, ich wir, I understand, be 50%
for hosiery und 5 for ether uses.
C
b) Befere the ar.  of the U.. purchases were of grace
0
C and u.
0
H.p.G. therefore feet that on the basis or present 
ppiroments, the u.t. is antitled t a  rper rocorticn of the
higher prades :nd lower ceniers than the U.S.
I unuerstand that for the present your Goveroment res
unvbie to arr e th t tne entire Unitoe Kinpuwm reguirement alioca-
tion or 6f of totar availubilities siotis be made up of the nigher
prades and finer deni ers, ane in oraer te ret r guler shipments
start d t the U.r. the Beard o Traue are prepared t. nece,t specific
/quantities

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
quantities of the qualities needed by the U.K. industry and not avail-
able from stocks there. They calcuiate that from current availabilities,
their firm reauirement would be 1,679 bales of 13/15 denier v grade and
up and 882 bales oi 20/22 denier grade B and upt This requirement is
stated on the assumption th:t within the ranges indicated above the U.K.
wculd receive their prorortionate share of the available grades and on
the furtner assumption that the extra quantities of nigher grades made
available as a result of the submissicn of India's requirement for lower
grades will be divided prorortionately between the cther claimants, par-
ticuleriy those cinimants whose reguirements are mainly for higher grades,
e.E. the U.K., Austra ia un: New Zealand.
pnioments t. the U.:. are reouired at the rate of 500 bales a
month in the foliowinr proporticns:
(a) In the first four months 400 bales of 13/15 and
100 balas of 20/22;
(o) In the fifth menth 79 bales of 13/15 and 482 bales
of 20/22.
The silk should be consisned tc the Board of Trade, Silk and
yon Contrcl, Macelesfield. The basis of payment has already been
agreed, i.e. the siik is to be inspected cn arrival by G.H. Heath & Co.
and payment made cn the resultent grading. The price will be the f.o.b.
equivalent cf the weighted U.S. average of the latest prices at the
time the siik is graded and available for distributicn in the U.k.
The foregoing proposals should, in our opinion, enable sCP
to prepare nis shippin: programme for U.R. shipments for the next five
months. I should be gratefui to learn as soon as possible if you agree
to them. In view cf the fact that no silk has so far been snipped from
Jaran to the U.K., the Board of Trade urge that the first consignment
be shipped as soon as possible.
Yours sincerely,
J.AVE. Smart,
Haw Materials Section

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
1946
OCT1619
In reply refer to
JK
894.6
y dear Er. Smart:
Thank you lor your letter of cetober 3 giving us infermation
regarding the Uk's immediate requirements for Japanese silk. he have
5
asked the ar Department to advise the Headquartere of the Supreme
5
Commander for the Allied Fowers of the recommended eempesitiom of eash
2
of the first 4 monthly shipments which you have requested. He
/10-
suggect that you arrange to have London instruet the UK Liaison Mismien
in Toxyo to confirm these requirements. e alse believe that mow mhip-
ments of silk to the UK have started, Londen should camamieate futare
monthly requirements to CAp via the Uk Liaison kission. we have mot
(N
advised  CAP of your recowmendations as to the composition of the Sth
4
monthly shipment and unless we hear from you to the contrary wall assme
9
that you have arranged to have this information sent to your missien in
Tokyo.
e consider acceptable the terms of saie outlined in the next to
the last paragraph of your letter of cotober 3 and nave mo advised sCAP.
On the basis of our discussions wdth UK Treasury representatives here,
C
we assume that the Uk is prepared to make payment either in dollars, or
S
in sterling convertible into dollars after 6 months if it should prove to
1
be excess to Car needs.
A
The queation of an equitable alloe tion of the relatively searee
high-grade, low-denier silk is proving somowhat troublesome. e do not
have figures mhowing the prewar jupanese silk export pattern in sufficient
desall to verify your statement that duri.g this period 99 pereent of
Us silk purchases were of grades " " and up, and to determine the compare-
ble percentage figures for the purohases of the U.. and various other
countrles waich figured in the Japanese silk trade. In the absenee of
statistice of this kind we believe that the previously accepted pereentage
quotes based on total siik exports during the period 1934-38 hould be
used as a guide in determining an equitable division of ihe mupplies of
those gredes and deniers of silk which appear to be in strongest demand.
e do not see how we could agree to the pro,osition thet the Uk is
entitled to a larger proportion of tha high grades and finer deniers than
the U.s.
M. J. A. . Smart,
You
Raw keterials"eetion,
British Embassy,
ashington 8, D.C.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.88)
Lou raser to the extra questisies of the higher gredee and fieee
desiare made available as the resnls of India's decisien to take lar
grades enly. Bovever, sinee the Us and Frense as wall as the U,
Australia, and üow Zealend waat partdealarly te preeure these gredes and
deniere the rediotri butd en of the Indian qusta coald mam caly è very
few additiemal bales of high grade ailk for the Uk.
ne feal that it will be necessary fer SCap to &ake a large measure
of respomsibility for adainistering the silk expert allesstiom plam and
wo are ceafident that suar will ondeaver to admiaister this plam in s
equitable a manner as pessible. e trust that mipmente te the  eam
be arranged whien will mest Ua requirameats to the eamplete satiafuetien
of Board of Trade autnorities in onson.
Sinserely yours,
Reswell H. hitman
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economio Affairs
JK:RMPaige:bcb
IR
origi-
10/15/46
HRB
08

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.96)
OCT 4 194€
894.6552/10-446
My dear Mr. Sahieck:
Please refer to my letter of September 12, 1948
regarding priees to be charged purohasers of Japanese
raw silk when suoh purohases are part of quotas es-
tablished by Inter-Allied agreement.
it the time of writing the September 12, letter
I assumed that if prices were establiahed by open
austion there would be only one price fer a given type
and grade. It appears, however, that open auotion
method of bidding also results in considerathim vari-
ation in prices even for the same grade depemding on
specific oharacter of the silk offered. Accordingly
the prices to be charged foreign purohasers must be
determined by averaging the mited states prices for
the type and grade for open auction as well as for
the sealed bid method of determining prices.
cincorely yours,
CS/V
Roswell H. Whitman,
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese nd Korean
Economio Affairs
Xr. Dewitt C. Sabieck,
President,
U. S. Commercial Company,
washington 25, D. C.
JX:RHWh1tman:omh 9-30-46
NRB
10-446

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.89)
6)
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
BRITISH EMBASSY,
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
October 22, 1946
894.6
My dear Mr. Whitman,
Jananese Silk
7
5
Than: you for your letter of Cctober 16th,
2
hier I ave sent to oncon for comments und will be
plnd to et vou knew what wondor's re etion is as soon as
I en in a  osition to uo so. I have only one immediate
10-
content, whicn concerns vour varatrooh 2. I am informed
by the U.h. Tressury peleretion th t the assumotien in
2246
the second sentunce of the marugrach under r ference is
not corveet, since the t.. sosition i not that pavment
shouid be made eitrer in dol ars cr in sterline cenvert-
ible into aoliars, but thut payment should be made in
ster inr and that any st rrine tot used by sCAp in paying
for im orts into Ja on sh . be convertible into doluars
at interv ls of six : onths.
I a sendinr  cory or tis letter to Mr.
Christelow of the d.. Tressury beleration.
C
Yours sincereav.
n
1
A
J.A . Smert,
J:
Raw Materi is Section
OCR
111
Mr. F. n,
Stot. Devartrent,
051-14 8" 8. .
oh ten. p.c.
a
ce: Mr. Christelon

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/10-2246
My dear Mr. Smart:
I have your letter of Cetober 22, 1946 and am glad to correet
the misunderstanding arising from the ambiguity in the sesond pare-
graph of my lstter of October 16. My intended meaning will be
perfeotly clear if you will insert in the second sentenee of this
paragraph after the phrase "the UK is prepared to make payment",
the words "at its option."
Sinserely yours,
GS
A1
Roswell H. Whitman
ga
Associate Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
894.6552
Mr. J. A. E. Smart,
Raw Materials Seetion,
194
British Embasay,
Washington 8, D.C.
true copy of
the sigeed ertyl-
2γ
JK:RkPaige:bcb
10/24/46

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.93)
001T28194B
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/10-2846
My dear Mr. Menon:
We are enclosing herewith the table which was distributed to
those present at the meeting in my office on September 23.
The delay in replying to your roqusst for this table was due to
the fact that e had to secure additional copies from the U.S.
Commercial Company, the agency which prepared it for us.
Sincerely yours,
C
Roswell H. Whitman
Associate Chief
Enclosure:
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Table
DCR
nit
A
Mr. F. A. Menon,
E
Secretary,
91
N
India Supply Mission,
0
2107 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
-2846
Wc.shington 8, D.C.
sid rigi
JK:RPaige:bcb
10/25/46
nak

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
8
STANDARDGORM NO. 
11a
2
TO
: A-II - JK Secretariat
DATE: December 17, 1946
R212.
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitmen
SUBJECT: Pricing Silk Sold.
The British Empassy has inquired regarding the deductions which should
be made from USA auction pricesto arrive at a system of prices for raw
silk f.o.b. Japan. In our telegram WARX 86354 of November 26this
subject in general teris but authorized SCAP to make a specific sales
agreement with the British trade representative in Tokyo. We feel we should
not discuss this problem with the British here until we know the exact terms
of the sales agreement offered by SCAP to the British. It would also be
helpful to know the exact terms of the sales agreement covering silk shipped
to Australia.
A further related matter is raised by this inquiry. Something should
be done to speed up tne sale of silk to countries other than U.S. We have
little information on what SCAf has done or is doing in this connection.
The following messae was discussed with ir. Joyce of UScC who expressed
general approval:
DRAFT TELEGRA..
SCAP
TOKYO
1. British here inquiring re formula for pricing silk. In view
our W 86354, llov., para 7 leaving certain aspects this matter your
discretion do not wish discuss with British until terns you offered
are knowm. Please forward soonest terms silk sales agreements con-
cluded with or offered to Australia, U.K., New Zealand trade represen-
12-1746
tatives in Tokyo.
2. That status Australian account? Has payment been received
for silk shipyed?
3. Have negotiations with India suggested ourad W83344 Oct 17,
para 2 been opened and if so what is stacus?
4. Can Australian, Hew Zealand, U.K., and Indian trade
representetives now acvise their countries firm requirements raw silk
next six months?
5. Would welcome your suggestions vhat can be done here to help
market silk countries otner than U.S.
ccqr.
Joyce - UScC; r. Bramble - It.
Inde
aige:bcb
ESP
JA
A-H
17/h/x46
Cleared in
cleared SKE
draft - Bramble
by phone al: 168

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
ASSICTaNT Sc
A-H
TO
: General Hilldring
NOV 221946
Nov. 21, 1946
GENFIAL HILLORING
SUBJECT: Shipment ofSilk to British.
In C-66710 (CM IN 5706, 30 Oct. 1946). SCAP outlined a program
for shipping raw silk to the United Kingdom and asked for approval of
this program. This cable crossed one fron Washington (WAR 84255, 28
Oct. 1946) which approved this shipment of silk. Another cable on the
subject was WAR 84686. for November, which stated that there was no ob
jection in Washington to releasing to Australia some additional bales
of silk and which recommended quotas for the distribution of Japanese
silk to countries other than the United States.
The attached draft cable reaffirms approval of the British deal
and recommends suspension for the time being of the quota plan under
which up to now Japanese silk has been distributed to countries other
than the United States. This recommendation is made because the U.S.
silk industry is not able at present to process all the raw silk to
which the U.S. is entitled.
The proposed cable goes on to outline a U.S. proposal which is
being presented to the Inter-Allied Trade Board that all silk, begin-
ning at some future date yet to be determined. be sold in New York at
auctions conducted by the Uscc. payment to be made in sterling and
other acceptable currencies, as well as dollars. The details of this
proposal are being sent to SCAp for his considet tion and comment in
a draft cable which is now awaiting War Department concurrence. I
am not recommending that the enclosed cable and the one now awaiting
Wer Department concurrence be combined because JK is very anxious to
have this proposed cable dispatched as rapidly as possible.
The proposed cable further comments on C-64433 (CM IN 5196, 23
Aug. 1946) from SChP, which is now understood to propose in effect a
method by which silk prices f.o.b. a Japenese port is to be deter-
mined. This method would set the price in Japan at the current U.S.
price, less eight per cent.
The proposed cable has been cleared in substance with Uscc (Messrs.
Gardner and Joyce). with Commerce (Mr. Nones), with Treasury (Mr. Gun-
ther).
War Department concurrence has been secured for this cable through
Lt. Col. Nagle, Ext. 72252, and I recommend your approval.
AH-465
27

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Mr. Lewis
TO
: A-H - JK Secretariat
DATE: November 8, 1946
FROM : JK - Mr. Whitman R. W.
SUBJECT: Reply to SCAP's C 66710 of OctOber 29.
This Division proposes the following reply to the telegrem cited above
which was assigned to this Division for actions
DRAFT TELEGRM
SCAP
TOKYO
Reurad C 66710 October 29
1. State approval British referred to forwarded ourad 84255 October 28.
Your proposal to ship U.K. 1000 bales silk plus 200 cases odd lots in
immediate future has our full approval. See also ourad 84686 Nov ember 2.
2. View present limitations capacity U.S. silk industry to process as
much raw silk as U.S. entitled to receive of current availabilities under
quots plan Ammediate suspension quotas time being.
recommend
3. Unless you perceive objection, inform governmental purchasing missions
accredited SCiP quotas suspended and for time being at least they may procure
their full requirements without restriction as to grades or deniers at prices
based on average prices obtained most recent New York auctions. To protect
position believe necessary to insist governments take delivery shortest
practicable period after acceptance order by SCAP.
4. U.S. advising Inter-Allied Trade Board quota plan has ben suspended
at least until such time as supply deemed less than requirements. U.S. also
proposing to Trade Board that beginning some future date yet to be determined
all silk be sold in New York at auctions conducted under USCC auspices. This
proposal contemplates sale of slk located in Japan for delivery in Japan or
later delivery in US as well as sele of silk in US. Also contemplates sales in
sterling and other acceptable (i.e. convertible) currencies as well as dollars.
Full details US proposal as presented Trade Board follows for your consideration
and comment. Pending receipt your reaction and Trade Board recommendation,
several weeks at least, we recommend you continue to arrange spot sales to
governments having purchasing missions in Tokyo.
5. British proposal for pricing and payment after arrival and inspection
in UK outlined ourad 84255 para 3. Believed here British could make good case
for your
A·H 460

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
for your acceptance this proposal. Should be possible and probably desirable
to agree on maximum time which could elapse between date shipment and dates
pricing and payment. What this time lapse should be left your judgment and
negotiation with British.
7. Have considered further urad C 64433 August 23 which we now understand
proposed in effect that silk prices f.o.b. Jap port be determined by discounting
New York prices not only to allow for (a) freight and insurance, but also for
(b) other actual expenses to recipient governments of storege, testing and
marketing silk, (c) length of time after shipment before proceeds of sale are
available for SCAP use (d) tendency of Japanese to overgrade, and (e) USC C's
three percent commission. We believe in interest of equitable relationship
prices paid for raw silk by silk industry in various countries item (e) above
should be disregarded. Item (d) should be disregarded on grounds existance
such tendency not fully established. Item (c) should be disregarded except
to extent recipient governments are given privilege of deferring payment to
SCAP for approximate length of time they require to obtain psyment from their
silk industry. Allowance of discount for expenses actually incurred by
recipient governments, item (b), appears fully justified. However, we leave
to your discretion question whether allowable discount should be predetermined
by agreement with British in Tokyo or determined after U.K. Government knows
exactly whet these charges will be. Allowances for f reight and insurance
should be based on current costs these items rather than fixed percentage.
Freight on silk from Jap port to warehouses in U.S. now approximately 8.65 per
100 pounds. Marine and war risk insurance 70 cents per hundred dollars
valuation.
8. Para 2 our 84255 was not meant to imply objection to shipments to
U.K. via Canada. We assume U.K. Liaison Mission has instructions or authority
from London to arrange shipping.
9. Acceptance by you of British proposal for payment after silk arrives
in U.K. and on basis Heath grading may appear to Australians to be unfair to
them. However if such objections develop terms of future sales to Australia
can be reconsidered if necessary to bring them into line.
JA+S-JK
IR
11/8/46
clearcd ly Pramble
78.
hared ivilh
cc: Mr. Gardiner ...... USCC)
Cleared in draft
Mr. Joyce .........
USCC)
Mr. Nones ........
Commerce - Cleared in principle
phone nF.
Mr. Gunther
Treasury

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.93)
352
BRITISH EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
GEIVED
February 18, 1947
Mr. R. M. Paige 7
Room 17,
DIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAN
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
.0
nashington, D.C.
1C
261947
4.6
Dear Mr. Paige:
Japanese Silk
5
This will confirm our telephone conversation
7
regardin the proposals made at a rec at meeting in vour office
CC
attended by representatives of SCAP ad by Mr. Percival and me.
3
You will recall that it was proposed by the
1
representetives of SCAP thet the Japanese silk which had been
1847
shipped to the United Kingdom should pe paid for on the basis
of the U.f.A. market price preveiling et the time the silk was
shipped.
In the course of ihe meeting I referred to my
letter of ay 13th, 1946 to Mr. Whitman in which I had recorded
our agreement that silk shipped to the U.k. from Japan should be
paid for pi the f.e.b. equivalent of the oreveiling U.C.A.
market prices after the silk had been inspected in the U.K. and
was available for aelivery to U.K. consumers. 1 said that the
Government oi the U.K. had always regarded this as a firm agree-
ment with the U.s. Government ana that until the matter was
C
raised at the meeting in vour office we had no reason to suppose
1
that any uiiferent basis of valuation would be suggested.
0
As a result of the meeting, and at vour suggestion
and that of the representatives of sCAP, I cabled to the Boaru
of Trade pointing out that there had apoarentlv been some mis-
understending betveen the vepartment of tate and SCAP and saying
that it was now suggesteo by the U.. Covernment that es e
compromise, it shoulc be assumed that the silk which had peen
shipped to the United Kinguom had arrived or would arrive in
1
January, and that the f.o.b. value should be taken to be the
1
f.o.b. equivalent of the United States market prices at the date
of assumed arrival. I understano that in fact none of the silk
/shipped

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. R. M. Paige
-2 -
Feb. 18, 1947
shipped to the U.K. has yet arrived. The total quantity en route
is said to be 3,000 bales ana 212 cases.
I have now had a reply from the boaru of Trade which
makes the following coints.
The Boara of Trade point out that there has been,
since May 13, 1946 a firm agreement between the U.S. Government
and the U.K. Government on the basis of veluation for silk
shippea to the United Kingdom and that this agreement is confirmed
in my letter of May 13, 1946 to Mr. Whitman.
Even if there had not been this agreement they point
out that the United Kingoom seeks only equality of price treatment
with U.s. consumers. The buyer of silk in the U.s... receives
uelivery of tested silk at the time of his purchase at current
U..n. prices. The Boara of Trade feel that any procedure unaer
which U.k. consumers woulu receive dirferent treetment would be
discriminatory. They are unaole therefore to agree to the formula
proposed by the representatives of :CAP.
They point out that since the Government of the U.K.
have so far as possinle returned trading in raw silk to U.K.
private traue, it has been necessary for them to make extraorainary
arrangements for the disposal of Japanese silk ana that it is being
bought through Government channels for the sole reason that private
transactions with Japanese sellers are not yet permitted. briefly
the arrangements are that the U.K. trade have unuertaken to take
over from the U.K. Government their purchases of Japanese silk at
the current U..n. market prices prevailing after the silk has been
inspected in the U.K. and is available for consumption there. The
Board of Trade therefore could not ask U.K. buyers to pay a higher
price for their purcheses particulerly since the buyers are obliged
to export a large proportion of their output.
At ou meeting it was suggested that the U.K. might
consicer taking some part of their purchases on the basis of the
grading or the Japanese Conditioning House. 1 put this suggestion
to the Boara of Trade who say that U.K. buyers feel that it is
possible that there has been some chenge in Japanese standards
auring the war years. They point out that the latest results, as
outlined cy Mr. McDermott at our meeting, show that there is a
60% variation hetween the rading of the Japanese Conditioning
/House

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
Mr. R. M. Paige
-3-
Feb. 18, 1947
House and that of the U.S. Testing Company. Before agreeing
to buy any Japanese silk on the basis of the grading of the
Japanese Conditioning House, U.K. buyers would wish to make tests
of their own in order to ascertain to their own satisfaction
how dependable the current Japanese grading is. The Board of
Trade also point out that ell silk sola at the last auction in
the U.s.n. had been tested in the U.S.A.
They also point out that none of the silk which
hes been shippea to the U..n. will be paic for on the basis
of its value in the U.s.n. market at the time of shipment, but
will, in fact, be paid for on the basis of its value at the
time of celivery to U.s. consuners. This is precisely the basis
on which the U.K. wish to buy silk from Japan ana the Board of
Trade emphasize again that any aeparture from this rormula in
the case of U.k. purchases woulc, in their opinion, be a clear
discrimination against U.K. consumers.
It was suggested at our meeting that the new policy
of the U.s.. to stabilize prices by guaranteeing minimum prices
at which silk would be sold from U.s.A. stocks should ao away with
the basic aifficultv of cooruinating sale prices in the U.K. and the
U.:.A., and that in light of this U..A. policy, the U.K. should be
able to fina it easier to agree to accept a valuation of the silk
on the basis of its value at the time of shipment. The Board of
Trade point out that this assumption aepenas to some extent on
whether or not U.K. buyers are able to agree to accept the certi-
ficates of the Japanese Conuitioning House, but that in any event,
if, for example, a consignment of silk were to arrive in the U.K.
on sav, Julv 10, and testing were not completed until sometime in
August, U.K. buyers might well be paying aifierent prices than
their competitors in the U..A.
Yours sincerely,
O.onue
M. Mclougall
MMcL/la

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR: 5
CONEIDBNTIAL
In reply refer to
JK
8
My dear Colonel Nagle:
5
4
I enolose for your information a copy of the letter from the British
Embassy, dated February 18 and addressed to ir. Paige, on the subjeet
of pricing silk.
5
5
As you know, it. lihitman is in Japan and is not immediately available
for consultation. It appears, however, that the British have misinterpre
ted whatever remarks ir. Whitman may have made in his oral response to 
ir. MoDougal's letter of ay 13, and have assumed that the Department of 
State had aut crity to make sales agreements which were binding upon the
Supreme Comander for the Allied Powers. Sincs we do not have this
00
aut ority I am confident r. lihitman did not tell the British that w
4
did have it. ir. Vhitman undoubtedly assumed that prior to the release
7
of silk to the U.K., ScAP would enter intc a sales contract covering all
terms of sale and not simply those which were mantioned by ir. MoDougal
in his letters of ay 13 and Ootober 3. e enclose for your informtion
copies of t ese letters, to ether with a copy of our letter of Ootober 16
acinowledging ir. eDougal's letter of Uctober 3.
In y opinion me should advise SCAP to enter into negotiations with
the British through the U.K. Trade Representative in Tokye and come to full
agreement as to pricing, terms of payment and all other terms of sale
covering the first and subsequent shipments of silk to the U.K.
As to shipments which have taken place to date I believe we should
advise SCAP that unless they can successfully aintain that the U.K.
through its trade representative in Tokyo agreed to accopt silk on terms
C
other than those offered by the British in r. eDougal's letters of
Hay 13 and October 3 and outlined to SCP in our telegram War 84255 of
October 28, we see no alternative but for SCAP to accept the payment terms
offered by the British or to work out some other pricing formuls which the
British are willing to accept. As to future shipments, we believe the
British will continue to insist upon equality of price treatment with U.S.
consumers. We suggest you telegraph SCAr the substance of their arguments
on this point. We believe SCAP should endeavor to find some plan for
handling future silk sales which will ue mutually acceptable, to he
Lt. Colonel F. W. Nagle,
iritish
War Department,
Civil Affairs Iivision,
Waahington 25, l.C.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.89)
British and to sCaP. A firm understanding as to future ahipmeate aseulé
facilitate a sattlasant for the ahipmsnts whioh have beem madle to date
and in additien, an understanding of this kind is an wrgent matter if
British silk industry purahases of Japasese silk during l947 are te be
mtimiged.
Sincerely yours,
Edrin M. Martin
Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
4 Enclosures:
1. Letter fmm-Nebougall
2/18/47
2. Letter from Raw Materials
Section 10/3/46
3. Letter from MeDougall
5/13/46
4. Letter to Smart 10/16/46
 true copp
És sgaed ericà
5
2
BeAr
1947
HRB
JR:RuPalige:bcb
2/25/47
ESP
IR
A-H

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
358
In reply refer to
1087
J
894.6552/2-2447
My dear r. Joyce:
A recent cable from SCaP in reply to one drafted in this Division
which you discussed with Mr. Paige advises as follows regarding SCAP
sales of silk in 1947.
Although trade representatives in Tokyo will not make firm
commitments Australia-New Zealand requirements are reported to be
approximately 200 bales (all high grade) per month. U. K. requireasnts v
are reported to be 600 to 1,000 bales, grades c and better and Indian
requirements 500, (all low grades) per month. This suggests an anmual
consumption in these markets of from 15,000 to 20,000 bales.
SCAP reports negotiations are in progress with official represente-
tives Switserland and France regarding the sale of silk to these
countries.
Sincerely yours,
10
thT
894.6552
Edwin N. Martin
Chief
Division Japanese and Korean
24 347 F.
Economic Affairs
Lür. Walter E. Joyoe,
1625 K Street, N.W.
JK:RMPaige:bcb
Washington 25, D.C.
2/18/47
P2

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
329
FEB 25 1947
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/2-2547
30
My dear Mr. Badger:
In the paper T-005/1 the U.S. representative on the Inter-
Allied Trade Board put forward for consideration of the Board the
proposal that:
"In the future raw silk be sold only at open auctions
conducted by the USCC in NewYork City."
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers has subsequently
commented unfavorably on this proposal and since representatives of
several countries on the Inter-Allied Trade Board have indicated
informally that the proposal would not be acceptable to their
governments, the US representative now withdraws this suggestion.
Will you please bring the substance of this letter to the
CS/V
attention of members of the Trade Board.
Sincerely yours,
894.6552
Edwin M. Martin
Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economic Affairs
Ar. Donald Badger,
Secretary, Inter-Allied Trade Board,
2516 Massachusetts Ave., N. W.,
PET
25
Washington 25, D.C.
JK:RMPaige:bcb
2/14/47

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 5190
In reply refer to
JK
894.6552/3-547
My dear Mür. MaDougall:
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter of February 18,
addressed to r. Paige.
As you know, r. Whitman is in Japan and is not immediately
available for consultation. I believe, hovever, that you have mis
interpreted whatever remarks r. Mhitman may have made in his oral
response to your letter of May 13 and the statement in his letter of
October 16 to the effect that we co:sidered acceptable the terms of
an
sale which yoy proposed. I an aure that itr. Bhitman meant to make
clear to you that all silk was to be obtalned under speoific sales
agreenents workey out in Tokyo between CAP and the UK through the
UK liaison mission
874.6552/10.346
We are co uunicating with the ar Department regarding this
misunderstanding and will advise you urther regarding the pro
cedure proposed for resolving the issue.
CS/V
Sincerely yours,
Edwin artin
Chigf
Division of Japahese and Korean
Economil Affairs
M..bougall,
Raw terials Section,
Hritish Embassy,
5
Washin to, D.C.
NRB
JK:RMPaige:bcb
ESP
IR
A-H
2/25/47
CC: Mr. Whitman (Tokyo), Col. Nagle (WAR)

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.95)
72532
OIVISION OF JAPANESE AND KOREAR
B
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Ret
BRITISH EMBASSY,
1947
3/27/47
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
Tike
894.6552/3-1947
March 19, 1947
Mr. Edwin M. Mertin,
APR
Chief, Div. of Japanese and-Korean
Economic Affairs,
Department of State,
Vashington, D.C.
My aear Mr. Martin:
Thank you for your letter of 5th March about raw
silk Irom Japan.
It woulu, I think, be useful to summarize the
sequence of events leading up to the shipments of this material to
the U.K.
In late 1945 anc early 1946 there were several
proposals for the aistri ution ano aetermination of the value of
Japenese silk made et meetings of Mr. lhitmen with the representatives
of several interested governments includin: thet of the U.K. One of
the suggestions made by lr. hitman for settin, the value of shipments
to destinations other than the U.s.A. was that these shipments should
be sol' at the f.o.b. Tokyo equivalent of the verage merket price
in the U... at the time the silk was shippeo from Japan.
CS/V
I put this suygestion to the Board of Trade in
London who replied saving thet they coule not &gree to it since it
seemed to them to involve Jiscrimination against U.K. buvers. They
vere also not willin to accept eny silk on the basis of the certi-
ficetes of the Jepanese Governinent Silk Conditioning House. They
therefore proposed th: t shipments to the U.K. shoula be inspected on
arrival in the U.K. by G. H. Heeth an Co. ana its value to U.K.
buyers determined on the basis of the Heath inspection at the sterling
ecuivelent of the U.K. market prices  reveiling for similar grades
of Jacanese silk at the time or sale to the buyers in the U.K.
I ciscussed this proposel with lr. Vhitmen who told
me thet this procecure woul be agreeable to the U.S.h. provided the
U.S. Government departments concerned had no objection to inspection
by,G. H. Heath and Co. He uniertook to discuss this point with the
11
2
/depertments

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
Mr. Edwin M. Martin
- 2 -
Mar. 19, 1947
departments and to inform me later of the results of his discussions.
I confirmed this conversation in my letter of 13th
May to Mr. Whitman.
There were no further conversations on the subject
until the one confirmeo in my letter to Mr. Vhitman on 20th June. In
this conversation Mr. Whitman said that the U.s. would agree to
inspection in the U.K. by G. H. Heath ana Co. and egain confirmed
U.s.A. agreement that the basis of payment vwould be the sterling
equivalent of the U.S.A. market price at the time of completion of
such inspection. On the basis of this &greement I recuested that
the first shipment of the U.K. share of Japanese exports be shipped
and this ves subsecuently arrenged.
At no time in our conversations wes any reservation
made to the effect that any sales arrangements which might affect any
of the basis of the existing agreement were to be worked out in Tokyo
between SCAP and the U.K. through the U.K. liaison mission, nor did
we heve any reason to regard the rirst sentence of the second paragraph
of Mr. Vhitmen's letter of 16th October to Mr. smert as creating any
such reservation. The first indication we received that any altera-
tions in the existing egreement were desired by the U.S. was at the
m eting held in Mr. Paige's office on 3lst Jenuary.
I communicated to the Boara of Trace in London the
proposals made to us at the 3lst January meetine and I passed the
substance of their reply to Mr. Paige in my letter of 18th February.
The Boara of "rade in Loncon heve therefore asked
me to say that they regret they ere unable to agree to depart from
the agreement entered into vith the vepartment ani confirmed in my
leiters to Mr. Whitman on 17th May and 20th June since -
(s) they have already made firm commitments to the U.K. trade
to sell to them the silk already shippea on the basis
of this agreement and -
(b) the pro osals made by the representatives of SCAP at
our meeting of 3lst necember would, in their view,
involve a clear discrimination between U.s. buyers and
U.K. buyers.
They therefore propose to sell the silk shipped to
/the U.K.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. Edwin M. Martin
-3-
Mar. 19, 1947
the U.K. from Japan under these arrangements on the basis of the
f.o.b. Tokyo equivalent of the upset prices specified for the
auction held on 7th February in New York by U.S.C.C. since these are
the current U.S.A. market prices for all grades except AAA and AAA
special. Since speciel arrangements are being made in the U.S.A.
for sales of AAA and AAA special the formula for determining the
value of these grades will be determined by the current market prices
for them in the U.S.A. If it is found possible to accept the
certification of the Japanese Government Conditioning House for any
of the silk shipped to the U.K. the appropriate reduction of the
equivalent of 15¢ a 1b. will be applied as in the U.s.A.
Yours sincerely,
Moocsenu
M. McDougall
MMcD:1a

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
592
APP
47
894.6552/3-1947
In reply refer to
JK
ky dear tr. MoDougall:
I desire to acknowledge and thank you for your letter of Marah 19,
1947, in which you set orth the position of the Board of Trade with
regard to the price of Japanese silk purchased by the Board.
It is my understanding that the various points mentioned in your
letter are to be the subject of disoussions looking towmrd a solution
which will be, I hope, agreeable to all.
I deeply regret the unfortunate misunderstanding which appears to
CS/V
have arisen in this matter, and I an hopeful that an agreeable solution
will be reached quickly.
Sinoerely yours,
2A
Edwin M. Martin
Chief
Division of Japanese and Korean
Economio Affairs
A. M. HoDougall,
Raw atarials Section,
British Embassy,
APR
1947
Washington, D.C.
A true depy or
tsgned rig
3/27/47
cc: Mr. Gardiner - USCC
1947
Mr. McDermott - USCC
(Cleared with Mr. McDermt)

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.84)
whit
26.3
E
International Statistical Bureau,Iuc.
EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
35O FIFTH AVENUE
New York 1. N.Y.
OFFICE OF
A. W. ZELOMEK
ECONOMIC COUNSELOR
May 11, 1948
Reply d ropted
5/28/47
Dek/jile
Ir. arti
Deve rtwent f State
btor..
Jor d
I  corry that e ot teari fro you in response
to  reo t rote. T  pderstend, however, from y aosociate
r. be am thet wo red an i teresti diseussien with hin.
In line with  licy eo ree ir you inforoed, I
thoueht on won?I te iaterosted in kmowinr thet he silk tex-
tile picture as irproved consi i rebly. T faet, we could uso
at  wil tis voar then will  veilable. Phe
sher Tower ri eo pa eeu e  at stoplant. They have
e oueed s e hrowstere od wany weyvers to turn to silk.
Joncidentislly, the sellin priccs f cilk finishe
ito s are relatiyel hichr thr warrooted on the basis of
ror sil. The tarude is. T meee, lat as lon as the
suy is not co plenticul, t ere ie ustificeta for
rettinm cll the trafric will rear.
Px ic a roor, and T pt it striethy in the rumor
cle, thet  vjew r br oell sopy of wow silk coning
throurh rom opan, the  cent my inerease the price when
the peried of he uoranteed pri xpires. I thoucht you
micht be irterertei in this rumor. y cwn crinien is that it
woul e ich better or the Jananese economy if prices w re
beut at current levele and preductien were juoreased.
I will be very hapy to diseuss the sily situation
094.6
vith yon Further, and I will be rlel to cive you eaditiunel
ioformatior.
CS/
552
for a short neric as a ropresentative of tho State Ders rtrent.
Sineerely yours
79
A 72:m

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
JUN
21948
In reply refer to
My dear Mr. Zelemsik:
894.6552/5-1148
This is in further reference to your letter of May 11, to Mr. Martin
and your telephone convereation with me on the subjest of the Japanese
silk problem. You asked me for some additional material with regard to
the situation in Japan.
I think the follouing data may be of interest to you, although I
must urge upon you the fact that these data are subject to later revision,
and indeed they include, in some instances, our best estimates based upen
such infermmtion as is now availables
Stocks in Japan
January 1, 1948
121,000
Steaks in U.S.,
January 1, 1948
54,000
Produotion,
January through April 1948
29,000
Total Supply Available January-May 1948
204,000
LOSS
Consumption for fabric produetion
28,000
Raw silk exports from Japan
15,000
Raw silk males from U.S. stooks
16.000
Total reduotion in supply
59,000
Stooks in U.S. and Japan May 1, 1948
145,000
Stooks in U.8.
May 1, 1948
38,000
Stooks in Japan
Moy 1, 1948
107.00
CS/V
Thus taking into account current production, net reduetion of stocks
thus far this year is in the order of 6,000 - 8,000 bales par month die-
posed of as raw silk for export, and an amount of about the same magnitude
dispesed of in the produotion of fabrio in Japan. The sales of raw ailk
thus far in 1948, from beth Now York and Japan, already appreximate trise
894.6
the entire exports of 1947, although it is not anticipated that the rate of
sale of the first four months of the year will be mmintained threughout
the yoar
.A. W. Zelonek,
552
Economic Counsalor,
International Statistical Bureau, Ino.,
Empire State Building,
350 Firth Avenuo,
New York 1, Now York.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.95)
2
the year. Nevertheless, sOar hes besm ispressed by the sale of fabrie
and the mele of raw silk at the ourrent prioes and be now has wedee
astive censideration the possible expansion of the serisalture imdustry
in ender te maximise all peesible returns frem the industay. It is ef
course possible that SoaP will resonsider his príee peliey in view of
the mevement of silk in ralation to his stock pesitien and the speed
with whioh produatian can be expandeds as yet, however, such price paliey
reconsideration has not come to my attentien.
You also suggested you might be able to give m some more informe
tien on the silk prospects in the U.S. I would be very interested to
know your estimates of:
1. 1948-1949 consumption of raw silk at present prioes.
2. 1948-1949 cansumption of imported Japanese silk fabrics at
approximately present price levels.
I an particularly interested, of course, in knowing whether the
present demand for silk is due to a temporary fad, or to a dalay in pre-
curement while waiting fer a price decrease, and can not reasonably be
expected to sustain iteelf.
If you are in Washington I would be very glad te disouss the matter
with you further.
Sinoerely yours,
RM
Robwall H. Whitman
Acting Chief
Division of Occupied Areas
Economic Affairs
 1948
OE:DOBowman:bcb
5/28/48

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.94)
International Statistical Bureau,Inc.
EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
350 FIFTH AVENUE
Ries in 02
New York 1, M.Y.
OFFICE OF
A. W. ZELOMEK
ECONOMIC COUNSELOR
June 4, 1948
DINASION /oF GECUPIED AREAS
JUN89948
894.6552/6-448
Mr. Roswell H. Whitman, Acting Chief
Division of Occupied Areas Economo Affairs
U. S. Department of State
894.65545-1148
Washington, D. C.
Dear Whitman:
Thanks very muoh for your letter of June 2
giving me the data on silk. I found it extremely
interesting.
I will be in Washington Monday and Tuesday,
June 7 and 8. I shall call you on Monday morning
with the hope that we can discuss the silk situation
further. I have some ideas on the subject that
might be of interest to you.
Again, thanks very much for the information.
Kindest regards.
894.6552/6
Sincerely yours
flomed
CS/ V
hap
AWZ:mm
fl

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
=N
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
RECEIVED
PATERBON 1, NEW JERSEY
01
LAMBERT 3-7300
tipto Sno pee
DEPT. OF STATE
OCT1946
DC/R
MENOESTA
September 29, 1948.
894.6552/9-2948
Honcrable George C. Marshall
Secretary of State
The White House
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Secretery:
For many years the City of Paterson has been the
17
heart of the silk textile manufacturing business.
94
As a matter of fact Paterson is often referred to
as the "Silk City of America". In the period pre-
611.
ceding World War Two, what was once a great in-
dustry was almost obliterated by the introduction
611.
of synthetic fabrics such as rayon and nylon.
This revolution in the silk textile business in-
volved radical changes in the dyeing and finishing
industry. In the period preceding World War Two,
the si lk industry as such had practical ly dis-
appeared and almost all the raw silk imported from
Japan and other countries was used in the manufacture
of silk stockings. With the introduction of nylon
this market for imported raw silk was adversely
effected.
With the ternination of hostilities against Japan
FILED
the government through an agency known as SCAP stab-
ilized the price of Japanese raw silk which brought
about a modest rebirth of the silk industry in this
city. Many manufacturers who were familiar with
CO
L
the manufacture of silk goods again commenced to
CrD
manufacture silk goods and hundreds of skilled silk
weavers found employment. Furthermore, the shortage in
textiles was greatly relieved by what amounted to the
introduction of a new cloth which was in fact an old
S
894.655264-2948
friend in this area.
V
Up to this point the government's policy was helpful
and useful. It now appe ars that SCAP is not only sell-
ing raw silk in America, but is dumping millions of
yards of woven silk goods on the American Market at
prices ranging from twenty-five to thirty-five cents
a yard less than what the same goods can be produced
in Paterson or the United States, this, notwithstanding
4903

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
PATERSON 1, NEW JERSEY
LAMBERT 3-7500
-2-
Honorable George C. Marshall (continued
the payment of a 25% duty upon the imported Japanese
goods. Furthermore, these Japanese woven goods,
(commonly referred to as "momme" cloth) arrives in
the United States in a condition which deprives the
local dyeing and finishing industry of at least one
process, namely, the boil-off process, so to this
extent the importation of Japanese cloth is also
seriously and adversely effecting another local and
American industry.
In order that you may properly understand what is
happening permit me to cite the following figures:
"Momme cloth American price
(before "boil-off")
..$1.40 per yd.
Japanese Cloth with 25%
duty paid
1.15
n
Japanese differential
.25
Value of boil-off
.10
Difference in price between
American Cloth and Japanese Cloth .35
As an indication of how serious this hes beoome the
Tokyo office of SCAP discloses that a total of 5,594,000
linear yards of cloth were contracted for during the
months of May, June, July and August, for delivery in
the United States before the end of 1948.
The Industrial Commission of Paterson, New Jersey, which
is an official arm of the government of this city, has
conferred with a number of manufacturers in this area,
all of whom are greatly concerned with what is happening.
It seems to those of us who are interested in this
matter in Paterson, that the sele of raw silk by Japan
to the United States should be sufficient and that direct
competition in manufactured cloth should be eliminated
immediately. It seems to be the unanimous opinion of
all persons consulted by us, that unless the further im-
portation of Japanese woven cloth is halted, the silk

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
PATERBON 1, NEW JERBEY
LAMBERT 3-7500
-3-
Honorable George C. Marshall - continued
industry in the United States, which has been recently
reborn, will die aborning.
Under the circumstances we appeal to you to intervene
in this matter and to make such representation as is
necessary in order to safeguard vital and legitimate
American interests.
With kind personal regards,
Respectfully submitted,
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
Charbs H. Poemer
CHARLES H. ROEMER
chr:pk
Commissioner
encl1

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
FABRICS
Use of Silk by Distributors
Follows an Upward Trend
Sales of Jap Silk Fabrics in August Show Sharp Rise—Total
for Last Four Months at 5,594,000 Linear Yards—Raw
Silk Consumption in August Increases—Converters Plan
Higher Output.
By PAUL MENNEG
Use of silk in converter's and o00 yards being purchased. Sales
fabric house lines is on the increase.
in May were 827,000 yards, June
Figures from the SCAP office in
51,000 yards, and July 314,000 yards.
Tokyo on export sales of Jap silk
On individual fabric types, the
fabrics and raw silk consumption
flgures show crepes and georgettes
figures prepared here by the Amer-
as being the leading sellers with
ican Silk Council attest to the con-
twills and satins second. United
tinuing trend toward re-establish-
States buyers purchased 5,240,000
ment of silk in the American fabric
yards of crepes and georgettes dur-
market. In addition, a number of
ing the four-month period and the
converters report that they have
twills and satins total was 263,000
either added silk or increased the
yards for the same period. The num-
percentage of silk in their spring,
ber contracts including those for
1949, fabric lines.
habutae also show a rise during the
period increasing from 21 in May to
Figures on sales of Jap silk fabrics
99 in August.
(exclusive of habutae) in bleached
The SCAP foreign trade office
state to United States buyers com-
piled by the Tokyo office of SCAP
here which has merely been acting
in advisory and assistance capacity
show that a total of 5,594,000 linear
yards were contracted for during the
during the past few months since
months of May, June, July and
direct sales with Japanese buyers
August for delivery here before the
were authorized reports that con-
end of the year. August was the
verters have recently placed orders
heaviest month in sales with 4,402,-
for 75,000 yards of flat crepe while
other types of firms ordered 300,000
yards. When SCAP was handling all
orders for silk fabrics from Japan.
converters purchased 30,000 yards
llied..
of flat crepe, 30,000 yards of satin
crepe, 50,000 yards of plain satin
and 85,000 yards of twill habutae.
Raw silk consumption figures dur-
ing August also showed a rise from
July. Figures from the American
Silk Council place the total for Au-
gust at 6,742 bales as compared
with 4.191 in July.
The breakdown on Jap silk fabric
sales to United States during May.
June, July and August follows:
Thousands of Linear Yards
Type
May June July Aug. Total
Crepes &
Georgettes
724 31 249 4,236 5,240
Twills &
Satins
95
60
106
263
Fuijsilk
5 5
0
20
30
Others
3 13
5
40
61
827 51
314
4,402
5,594
WI 7-0963
ALLIED TEXTILE PRINTERS, INC.
Royon Acotote
Prints
1450 BROADWAY, N. Y. C.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.92)
 STANDARD FORM NO. 4
DATE: NoV 8, 1948
ha
To : E - r. lize
FROM : CP- Yr. Gay
SUBJECT :
after obtaining the necessary clear-
ances on this lebter, we discovered quite
by chance that taenbi cal letters were written
by ir. Roener to several agencies, including
General acartnur. de hear that achrthur
replied to the effect thmt it was thought in
Tokyo there should perhans be a review of
the ilk textile prices, and hs asved Roemer
to formrd all relevant data. Since that is
in line with the a ivice diven hin in the at-
tached lotter, we coul send shis wi thout
indicabin: our kmowledgo of the other let-
ters. or we can rewrite this, suying we
understand that General YacArt'ur has re-
plied, offering to revie his orices.
Pard
E
Sign this, ghrta. Gay agues
Sd luartin
TTP:CP:BlleCornick

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
 894.6552/9-2948
My dear Mr. Roemer:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated Ostober 4,
l948 concerning the effect upen the Amerioan silk textile in-
dustry in Paterson, New Jersey of imports of finished silk
textiles from Japan.
The Department's attention was partioularly drawn to the
statement in the third puregraph or your letter that "Scap
1s not only selling raw silk in America, but is dumping millions
of yards of woven silk goods on the American market at prioes
ranging from twenty-five ts thirty-five cents a yard less than
what the same goods can be produoed in Paterson or the United
States, this, notwithstanding the payment of a 25 per cent duty
upon the imported Japanese goods." In this referenee, it is
net known whether you intended to use the term "dumping" in
1ts usual technical and rather preoise meaning, that is, the
practice of some foreign countries or nationals to take unfair
advantage of a domestio monopolistic position with oontrolled
high prioes to "dump" large quantities of a produot abroad
at near cost of produotion or below. The Government or the
United States is opposed to such praotices, even where the
foreign exchange omergenoy may be severe, so that in the event
T
it seems probable that Japan, whether with or without the oen-
sent of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, is "dumping"
finished silk textile to the detriment of the Amerioan industry,
the Department of State will be glad to request its representatives
in Japan to investigate the matter.
5
However, if by "dumping" you mean a price or cost advantage
naturally acoruing to a foreign producer, even in the face of
tariff or other obstaoles to trade, then it would be diffioult,
if not impossible, to subatantiate a oharge of discrimination
by Japan against American interests. As you are doubtlessly
aware, any dollar inoome earned by Japan will have the ultimate
offeot of reducing the tremendous drain upon the fiscal resouree
of the
Mr. Charles H. Roemer,
The Industrial Commission
Room 37 - City Hall,
Paterson 1, New Jersey
4/1

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
of the United States, which is committed to a program of eur-
tailing the financial dependence of Japan upen Amerisa at the
earliest praetieable time. Thus, if Japan is to return to some-
thing liko sconomic stability, that country must be allewed, in
fact snoouraged, to inorease her dollar-earning exports.
You are probably also aware that a modification of the
effective military conversion rates between Japanese yen and
other ourrencies has been undertaken, though at present it
does not amcunt to a commercial or rull remittance rate, since
there are not suffioient foreign exchange resources available to
Japan which could be used for this purpose. Hewever, it is
to be expeoted thet any developments approaohing a realistie
or free oxohange rate for Japanese ourrency will ultimately be
reflocted in offioial or other appraisals of the correct or
best prioes for current Japanese exports and imports, in terms
of dollars and other foreign currencies. No relier can be
promised on this score but the probabilities should offer
some encouragument to the American silk textile industry. In
any event past experience migtt indicate that with the passage of
time the American publio will elect to place its reliance upon the
spuciulty goods and quality of produots manufaotured in the United
States.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretury of State:
SWD
Edward W. Dohorty
Assistant Chief
Division of Finanoial Affairs
CP
0
NA
gs
FN:GStrong:alj
10/7/48
4902

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
 OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
N 894.6552/a-2948
My dear Mr. Roemer:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated Octeber 4,
1948 concerning the effect upon the American silk tertile in-
dustry in Paterson, New Jersey of imports of finished silk
tertiles from Japan.
The Department's attention was particularly drawn to the
statement in the third paragraph of your letter that "SCAP
is not only selling raw silk in America, but is dumping millions
of yards of woven silk goods on the American market at prices
ranging from twenty-five to thirty-five cents a yard less than
what the same goods can be produced in Paterson or the United
States, this, notwithstanding the payment of a 25 per cent duty
upon the imported Japanese goods." In this reference, it is
not known whether you intended to use the term "dumping" in
its usual technical and rather precise meaning, that is, the
praotice of some foreign countries or nationals to take unfair
advantage of a domestic monopolistic position with controlled
high prices to "dump" large quantities of a product abroad
at near cost of production or below. The Government of the
United States is opposed to such practices, even where the
foreign exchange emergency may be severe, so that in the event
it seems probable that Japan, whether with or without the con-
sent of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, is "dumping"
finished silk textile to the detriment of the American industry,
the Department of State will be glad to roquest its representatives
in Japan to investigate the matter.
However, if by "dumping" you mean a price or cost advantage
naturally accruing to a foreign producer, even in the face of
tariff or other obstacles to trade, then it would be difficult,
if not impossible, to substantiate a charge of discrimination
by Japan against Ameridan interests. As you are doubtlessly
aware, any dollar income earned by Japan will have the ultimate
effeot of reducing the tremendous drain upon the fiscal resources
of the
Mr. Charles H. Roemer,
The Industrial Commission
Room 37 - City Hall,
Paterson 1, New Jersey
411

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
of the United States, which is committed te a program of our-
tailing the financial dependence of Japan upon America at the
earliest practieable time. Thus, if Japan is to return to some-
thing like economic stability, that country must be allowed, in
fact encouraged, to increase her dollar-earning erports.
You are probably also aware that a modification of the
effective military conversion rates between Japanese yen and
other currencies has been undertaken, though at present it
does not amount to a commercial or full remittance rate, since
there are not sufficient foreign exchange resources available to
Japan which could be used for this purpose. However, it is
to be expected that any developments approaohing a realistio
or free exchange rate for Japanese currency will ultimately be
reflected in official or other appraisals of the correct or
best prices for current Japanese exports and imports, in terms
of dollars and other foreign currencies. No relief can be
promised on this score but the probabilities should offer
some encouragement to the American silk tertile industry. In
any event past experience might indicate that with the passage of
time the American public will elect to place its reliance upon the
specialty goods and quality of products manufactured in the United
States.
Sincerely yours,
For the Sooretary of State:
Eaward W. Doherty
Assistant Chief
Division of Financial Affairs

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
17P
NOV101948
In reply refer to
CP
8
My dear Mr. Roemer:
9
4.6
Please accept my sincere regreto at the delay in
this reply to your letter of September 29, 1948 concern-
ing the effect upon the American silk textile industry
5
of imports of-finished silk textiles from Japan.
5
2
As you point out, it hes been the policy of the
1
occupation authorities to maximize the export of raw
6
silk in order to satisfy a world demand and to improve
Japan's extremely precarious foreign exchange position.
2
The Japanese find themselves in a situation today where
9
they must export in order to acquire the exchange to
4
pay for their essential imports, and the occupation
8
authorities must facilitate their exporting activities
or else pay for mounting Japanese deficits from the
United States Treasury. The war-torn Japanese economy,
struggling under the handicaps of greatly decreased
geographic boundaries and a greatly increased population,
must depend aimost solely upon exports in order to be-
come self-supporting. Any dollar income will of course
have the ultimate effect of reducing the tremendous
draw upon the fiscal reserves of the United States, which
is committed to a program of curtailing the financial
dependence of Japan upon America at the earliest prac-
C
ticable time.
(1)
1
You in the silk industry of Paterson are undoubtedly
aware of what has happened to Japanese raw silk exporta
894.6
due to the change in this country to rayon and nylon,
particularly
Mr. Charles H. Roemer,
S,
The Inaustrial Commission,
Room 37 - City Hall,
2.
Paterson 1, New Jersey.
ODH
9-2948

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
partieularly in the hosiery industry. Since the Japanese
have lost an immense market for raw silk due to this
technological change, it is not surprising that they are
making an effort to develop the production of silk tex-
tiles. I understand that in spite of that effort, their
exports of silk fabrics to the United States in 1948
probably will not exceed or even equal those of represent-
ative prewar years. I am told that there is at present
a lively market in this country for silk textiles, due
to their recent unavailability, and to the switch of many
manufacturers to rayon and nylon. It is said that there
is a greater demand than the present limited output can
supply.
The placing of an embargo upon all Japanese silk
textiles entering this country, as you suggest, would
hardly be consistent with the objectives outlined in
paragraph two above and would in fact be inconsistent
with the commercial policy of this Government, which
seeks an expansion of world trade in order to promote
employment and raise the standard of living.
I do not want you to understand by the foregoing
that the Department is insensitive to the interests of
American industry in this connection. As a matter of
fact, concerning the prices of Japanese silk cloth as
compared to the American, it is the policy of the oceu-
pation authorities to place floor prices upon all exports
fron Japan. It is contrary to the policy of the occu-
pation authorities and of the United States Government
to permit Japanese goods unfairly to underaell competi-
tive products throughout the world. The Department of
State is anxious that no American industry is hurt by
unfair competition. It is suggested that if there has
been what you consider an infraction of the policy out-
lined above, you present the facts in a communication to:
Foreign Trade and Commerce Division
Economic and Scientific Section
General Headquarters
APO 500, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif.
If

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
If you have further questions you would like to
bring to the Department's attention, please do not
hesitate to write again.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Paul H. Nitze
Deputy to the Assistant
Secretary for conomic Affairs
gs
IP:CP:WMcCornick;cw
11-4-48
FN
ITP
OFD:FN:GStrong:cw
pes
wSes)
CR
NOV  948PM.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.91)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
PATERSON 1, NEW JERSEY
LAMBERT 3-7500
D/K
November 17, 1948.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
OFFICE OF
Honorable George C. Marshall
NOV 19 1948
Secretary of State
The White House
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D.C.
894.6552/11-1748
My dear Mr. Secretary:
In connection with recent correspondence con-
cerning the silk ind stry in the Paterson area,
I am enclosing herewith a letter which I have
directed to Senator Albert W. Hawkes, which we
believe is self-explanatory.
We shall anpreci te your re-action to t'is
matter at the earliest possible time.
JAN 13 194
Very truly yours,
FILED
THE TDUSTRIAL CO MISSION
Charles N. Poen
948 N0 1A  11 38
9.17.
FAN
工
CHARLES H. ROEMER
412
chr:pk
C2
Commissioner
encla.
5
INTERNATIONAL RESOUROES DIVISION
LE
REGROO
5.
NOV? 3 1948
De/R (3 109 4P pur
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
894.6552
FAK
Chafted ly JC Montgomay
2c0
C
S
8
4/24/48
J.
2041

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.96)
C
November 12, 1948.
Honorable Albert . Hawkes
United States Senate
Senote Office Building
Washington, D.C.
Dear Senator Hawkes:
This will acknowledge recaipt of your letter of t'e 4th,
with accompanying letter of Colonel S.T.Wulker, GsC,
Chief Liaisn Group, Legislstivo nd Liaison Division,
bearin date of "ov mber 1, 1 48.
Frankly, Colonol Walker's letter is most disconcerting
to us. His leter bears oven-tones of sympethy to the
Japan se ceu e and utterly 1 gnores genuine Amerioan in-
terest. He writes "It is the presont polioy generally
to sell cr market Japanese e ports at curront world
prices or at prices cons de ed rea neblo in the Interest
of inoreasing Jupanece tr d. Colonel Wa'ker without
knowled~ of the t rue acts  al es roference in another
paragraph of his letter to "th se prices commonly ob-
tained In the no-called "cray Market" within the United
tates and in other countriec, to". The Industrial
Co ission of Paters n, ew Je sey has made a study of
tre silk clo'h silk cloth situat'on and has fo'nd no
evidence whatsoeve of t e existence of a "Gray Market"
in silk in the Unite State . On the contrary our evidence
would seem to ind cate that the man facturers in the
United States, who ave o nverted to silk, are having
difficulty in disrcsing of their products even at normal
competitive prices.
In another paragraph Colonel alker writes; "The Supreme
Commander, llied Powers for Japan is now in the process
of building up Japan's exports so as to evantually lessen
the burden unon tie Americ n taxpayer, etc.". This
Commission is thorouly familier ith the directive to
the Supreme Commander for the lliod Powers (SCAP) which
reyuired him to maximize the procoeds from exports, in
order that Japan may be in a position to pay part of the
cost of occupetion. It is obvicus thet Colonel alker, in
49

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
HONORABLE ALBERT W. HAWKES
interpreting the directive, is placing full emphasis upon
the necessity to maximize proceeds of exports but ignores
the necessity of protect'ng our domestio industries from
unreasona ble competition.
It is our understanding that so e time ago the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers (SCAP) was influenced in
his present policy by a group of Americun Converters and
Importers,who went to Japan not only to purchase Japanese
woven cloth, but lso to secure same at prices which were
admittedly lower than the minimum prevailing prices in
the United States. It may be that no oriticism should
attach to the few o nve ters and importes who took the
trouble to go to Japan for the purpose of arranging for
the purohase of Japanese textile. It is obvious they
did so in their own self interest, and while this may not
be subjeot to criticism the ract rem ins that the interest
of dislocating an American Industy which involves the
employment of thousands of American workers engoged in
warping, winding, throwing, weaving, procossin, dyeing
and finis in in numerous plants throu-hout the United
Statas.
In order to secure exact information of ppice differentials
the Industrial Cormission of Patersrn, Now Jersey, reguested
ond received from the Supreme Commender for the Ailied Powers
(SCAP) three available samples of woven cloth being sold at
present b the upreme Co mander for the llied Powes (SCAP)
and the prices thereof, for the purpose of comparing same
with abrics woven y Americ n manuf cturer.
A representative group of Amerion toxtile manufucturers
located in the metropolitan area of N v Vork, were requested
to submit competitive vuotations on the three cabrics. A
schedule, along with a sm ll sar le of t'e fabric is sub-
mitted herewith.
Comme t was made that Aterican Industry was slow to convert
to silk. The fact remaing that the American weaving industry,
because of World War Tro, had not beon weaving silk for a
number of years. O viously som delay was inevitable, due
tc technical difficulties, suc! as ro-training of weavers,
ac luisition of machinery etc. Ho ever, the present American
consumption of eoproxim tely 5,00o balas of raw silk per month
would ind c te a preciabls strides toward the reostabliahment

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
HONDBABLE ALBERT ". HAVKES
of a silk weaving industry in the United Staten. In
fact if we refer to official consumption statistios for
the years just prior to the war we ind that the weavers
in the United States absorbed on the average of 5,000
bales per month. In other words, the silk industry of
Amerioa is, today, as large as before the wer and we
can therefore deny all a sertions that the industry was
slow to convet However, the panic caused by the im-
portation of large luantities of Japanese woven silk
cloth is not only creating hardship to the American
manufacturer but is the rentest deterrant to an even
larger silk manuf cturing industry here in the United
Stat s.
A copy of this lotter lon: with a supporting schedule
is being forwerded to t'e folloving:
-Ma Jor General  illiom .  r urt, Chief ESC,  SCAPTEY
Foreign Trade and Corrmerce Division, conomio  Scientific Section
Paul . Mitze De uty to thc A sistant Secretary for Tornomio Affair
- Honorable Charles Sawver, Sec'y of Comverce
Honorable Ceorge C. liarahall, Sec'y of St te
Honorable H. Alexandor Smith, United Statos Senator
Honorable Gordon Canfield, Cn ressman
Ye sin erely hope that upen deliberation of the matter
you will see tre necessity of recormending that the
Supreme Co unonder for the llied Powers revise present
prices so that unfiar competiticn will be elimin ted
at the earliest possibl moment.
Very truly yours,
THE INDUSTRIAL COLISSION
CHARLTT H. ROTER
chr: pk
Commissioner
enc.1
1.3

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
SCHEDULE
QUALITY #1 TWILL HABUTAE
RHD
FINISHED
JAPANESE PRICES
RUOTATIONS BY AMERICAN
WARP
FILLING
"IDTH
WIDTH
UOTED BY SCAP
MANUFACTURERS
48/2/1 5 thread
88 p:cks
raw 20/22 tram
5 thread raw
7/8 turns
20/22 tram
7/8 turns
389
36"
$.68 per yd.
Manuf cturer A $1.48 per yd
Manufacturer B
1.41
Manufact rer C
1.45
Manufacturer D
1.50
Manufacturer E
1.51
QUALTIY #2 PLAIN HABUTAE
WARP
FILLING
48/2/6
72 picks 8-
raw 20/22
thread 20/22 tram 38"
36"
.70
Manufacturer A $1.54
Manufacturer B
1.34
Manufacturer C
1.52
Manufecturer D
1.34
Manufacturer E
1.58
QUALITY #3 FUJI
WARP
FILLING
38/2/1 40/2
72 picks 40/2
spun sil
spun silk
warp twist
warp twist
39"
36"
.75
Manufacturer A $1.85
Manufacturer B
Manufacturer C
1.93
Manufacturer D
1.66
Manufacturer E
1.664

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
DFC 8194Q
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Roemer:
I refer to your letter of November 17, 1948
894.65
enclosing a copy of & letter of November 12, 1948
to Senator Albert W. Hawkes, regarding the prioing
policies now being followed by the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers in selling Japanese silk
textiles in the United States.
5
The Department of State's susgestions and views
2
on the matter were outlined in Mr. Peul H. Nitze's
letter on November 10, 1948 which may not yet have
been received by you at the time of your writing to
Senator Hawkes. It is not believed that anything can
be added to the points outlined in  r. Nitze's letter.
The Department of State is &lad to receive your
comments, but decisions regardin the pricing and sale
of the products of Japanese industry are the responsi-
bility of the Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers.
Since it has been noted that copies of your letter were
sent to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
the Department of State has not forwarded copies to the
authorities in Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
For the Lecretary of State
WAS
Charles J. Shohan
Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
Mr. Charles H. Roemer, Commissioner,
The Industrial Comnission,
CR
Room 37 - City Hall,
Paterson 1, New Jersey.
DEC 8 1940 PNCe
ITP:IR:JCMontgomery:kd
12/3/48
Has been cleared by telephone with Commerce - Mr. Lubin
To be routed for clearance to
E

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
2575
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
PATERSON 1, NEW JERSEY
LAMBERT 3-7500
BEPMTMENY EF STATE
December 21, 1948.
894.6
Charles J. Shohan, Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
The Secr-tary of State
5
Washington 25, D.C.
5
2
My Dear Mr. Shohan:
Refer to IR
11
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of December 8,1948. The
2
Industrial Commiss on, frankly, was disturhed by your letter in
2-2148
view of the fact that you made reference to the suggestions and
facts outlined in P ul H. Hitze's letter of November 10, 1948.
Mr. Nitze's letter was before our Co mission when we forwarded
our letter to Senator A.W. Hawkes. In Mr. Nitze's letter of
November loth, he makes reference to the fact that " The State
Denartment is not insensitive to the interests of American in-
dustry." In fact Ir. Nitze says "It is the policy of the occu-
pation authorities to place floor prices upon all exports from
Japan. It is contrery to the policy of the occupation author-
ities and of the United Stotes overnment to permit Japanese
goods unfairly to urdersell competitive products throughout the
world. The Department of St te is anxious that no American in-
dustry is hurt by unfair competition."
S5
The foregoing has been the basis of cur representations up to this
1
point and at no time has The Industrial Commission cr the silk
industry of Paterson made any attempts to estab ish an embargo on
the importatien of Tamanese silk goods. Our position has been pre-
dica'ed upon he fact that Jananese woven cloth is not being sold
at fair and competitive prices in the United States and that
Japanese woven cloth is being sold in the United States at ices
approximetely 50% less than comparable American silk cloth riogs.
In view of the fact that the pres nt situation has operated sois-
h
astrously insofar a the American silk industry is concerne, the
silk industry has appointed a special con ittee to implemenb the
work of The I dustrial Commission and a joint meeting will be held
on Januory 12th, next. Up to this point The Industrial Commission
has with-held publicity concorning this subject matter. The
Committee representing the silk indus ry and Taterson is strongly
favor of bringing this matter out in the open. Up to this point
The Industrial Commiss on has been successful in restraining the
industrial committee and reascuring them that a price adjustment
1318

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
THE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
ROOM 37 - CITY HALL
PATERBON 1, NEW JERBEY
LAMBERT 3-7500
-2-
CHARLTS . SHOHAN -(Cont inued)
will be made at a competitive level and in conformance with
what we believe is the government policy.
Since Mr. Nitze's letter of November 10, l948, he has received
from this Commissien a letter end exhibits demonstrating conclus-
ively th t conditions prevailing at this time and for some time
past have not been competitive in accordance with the policy of
our government.
The same infornation and exhibits were forwarded to the Supreme
Commander "or t'e Allied Powors (SCAP) but up to this writing
The Supreme Comander or the Allied Powers (SCAp) has neither
acknowledred nor indicated that it has any intention of com-
plying ih t ovr  directives under which they operate
and which reguire the unreme Conder for the Allied Powers
(SCAP) to eliminate unfair competition to American industry.
We sincerely hope that you will review the situation in the
light of more recently submitted facts and data and that we may
receive some reassurance from you as to future competitive prices
so that the Industrial Co mittee,whic': will meet on January 12th
1949,will not be prone to engage in activities which may be
beyond the control of this Commission.
Respectfully submitted,
THE IUDUSTRIAL COMMISSION
CHARLES H. ROEER
chr:pk
Conmissioner
188

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
JAN 10 194S
In reply refer to
R
894.6552/12-2148
Dear Mr. Roemer:
I refer to your letter of December 21, 1948 regarding the
pricing policies now followed by the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers in selling silk textiles in the United States.
Primary responsibility for policies followed in prising
5
silk textiles and other commodities for export from Japam rests
with the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, whose viess
in this matter were expressed in a communication to you of
December 9, 1948 from the occupation authorities in Tokyo.
In the opinion of the occupation authorities Japansse silk
textile exports are not unfairly priced considering the many
factors involved.
If you feel that further review of the matter is necessary,
it is suggested that you present all additional facts you feel
pertinent to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
Sincerely yours,
For the Searetary of state:
V.!A.
Charlee J. Shoban,
CS/A
Assistant Chief,
International Resources Division.
Mr. Charles E. Roemer, Commissioner,
CR
The Industrial Commission,
JAN 10
Room 37 - City Hall,
168
Paterson 1, New Jersey.
力
IRP:IR:JCMontgomery;kd
CP
E
0
Lubin-Commerce
1/4/49
(by phone)
O:AIXeyessfa
1/7/49
(See other blue attacked)
4903

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
IR
Dear Mr. Roemer:
I refer to your letter of December 21, 1948 re-
garding the pricing policies now followed by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in selling silk textiles
in the United States.
Primary responsibility for policies followed in
pricing silk textiles and other commodities for export
from Japan rests with the Supreme Connander for the
Allied Powers, whose views in this matter were expressed
in a lotter to you of December 9, 1948 from the occupa-
Commmen-
tion authorities in Tokyo. It o underotorthahe
veahn
Civil Affairs Division, Department of the Army; has also
written you ivine the- views of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers- In the opinion of the occupation
authorities Japanese silk textilo exports are not unfairly
priced considerin; the many factors involved.
If you feel that further review of the matter is
necessary, it is su ested that you present all additional
facts you feel pertinent to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
Sincerely yours,
Charles J. Shohan,
Assistant Chief,
Internatlonal Resources Division.
Mr. Charles ... Roemer, Commissioner,
The Industrial Commission,
Room 37 - City Hall,
Paterson 1, New Jersey.
ITP:IR:JOMontgomery:kd
CP
Lubin-Commerce
1/4/49
nen
(by phone)
cTW
CAI

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
orr
Tokyo, January 3, 1949.
No. 1
CDIVWSION OF
VORTHEATSIAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
JAN 1 31949
DEPARIMENI UI STATE
Subject: Increased Prices for Japanese Silk.
894.6552/1-349
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward a
copy of a SCAP press release of December 23, 1948, announcing
price increases for Japanese raw silk. Base prices, F.O.B.
Japan, will be from ten to twenty cents per pound above 1948
prices, depending on the grade.
As in 1948, a discount of fifteen cents per pound will
be allowed on purchases of 300-bale assortments. Specifica-
ACTION
FE
tions for two such assortments, one for the European and one
for the American market, have been drawn up by SCAP.
COPIES
TO:
The price increases do not apply to stocks held by the
1TP
SCAP New York office, at present totalling 23,O00 bales. Silk
from such stocks will continue to be sold at 1948 prices until
0
March 31, 1949, at least 15 days prior to which date prices for
Cave
the succeeding quarter will be announced.
a(
Enclosure:
Copy of GHQ. SCAP Press Release
dated December 23, 1948 on the
10 AM 9 03
above subject.
/FAA
Original and hectograph to Department
555.5
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:mis
UNCLASSIFIED
CS/B
lw
0.1

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1 dated
January 3, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Increased
Prices for Japanese Silk."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Press Release:
1630
23 December 1948
INCREASE PRICE FOR JAPANESE SILK
Nominal price increases for Japanese raw silk, except for stocks
now held in the United States, were announced by SCAP's Textile Division
today. It was also announced that the present guarantee that prices
will not be lowered was extended as detailed hereunder.
The following table shows the price differentials between this
year and the floor prices FOB Japan guaranteed as minimums for shipment
from Japan during 1949 for the various grades of raw silk. Column (1)
is Grade; column (2) is 1948 prices; column (3) floor prices.
(1)
(2)
(3)
Special AAA 96% and up
$3.45
$3.60
Special AAA 95%
3.35
3.50
Special AAA 94%
3.25
3.40
Special AAA 93%
3.15
3.30
Special AAA 92%
3.05
3.20
Special AAA 91%
2.95
3.10
Special AAA 90%
2.85
3.00
AAA 89% and 888
2.75
2.92
AA
2.65
2.85
A
2.60
2.77
B
2.55
2.70
C
2.50
2.62
D
2.45
2.55
E
2.40
2.50
Two 300-bale assortments, one patterned for the United States
market, the other for the European trade, were announced at the same
time. On purchases of assortments there will be a 15 cents per pound
reduction, a continuation of the 1948 policy. The two new assortments
are listed below. Column (1) is Grade; column (2) is Number of Bales
of 13/15 Denier; column (3) is Number of Bales of
Assortment I 300 Bales
(1)
(2)
(3)
AAA
10 bales
20 bales
AA
10 bales
100 bales
A
10 bales
70 bales
B
10 bales
30 bales
C
10 bales
10 bales
D
10 bales
10 bales
Assortment II
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 1
January 3, 1949.
-2-
Assortment II 300 Bales
(1)
(2)
(3)
Special AAA
100 bales
AAA
100 bales
AA
30 bales
20 bales
A
30 bales
20 bales
No further sales of raw silk from Japan will be made at the 1948
price levels, according to SCAP's Tertile Division. Sales of raw silk
from stocks in the United States will contimue to be made at the 1948
official prices guaranteed as minimums to 31 March l949. Minimum
prices guaranteed on stocks in the United States for subsequent 1949
quarters will be announced at least 15 days before the end of each
quarter.
** END OF ADVANCE RELEASE**
-0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.86)
76
199210
894.6552/2-249
84162
Tompe
ULFARIMENT OF SIATE
4
DC/L
ECA
FRP
Tar
FEB 8 1949
H

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.90)
DEUS01
SECRET
No. 555
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission
London.
894. 6552 5.274
The Secretary of State refers to the Department's telegrams
Nos. 3771 and 4169, of Ootober 20 and November 18, 1949,
respectively, and encloses for the information of the Officer in
Charge a copy of A-764, of October 27, 1949, from the American
Embassy at Praha, and a copy of A-1397, of November 2, 1949,
from the American Embasey at Warsaw.
110/274
Enclosures:
/1. Copy of A-764 from Praha.
60A
Copy of A-1397 from Warsaw.
21K
DEC 80 19
HCU
FE:NA:CTWhite:hb.
BNA
EE
12-21-49.
SECHAT
SS
