894.602 Industrial Matters., Japan, Monopolies. Concessions. Franchise. Contracts. Bounties. Subsidies. Cartels. Where Practicable, Concession, Ect., Are Classified Under Their Specific Subjects., March 16, 1945 - August 6, 1949 (File 1754), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.602-1754-1   Pages: 446   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.602-industrial-matters-japan-5/894.602%20Industrial%20Matters.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Monopolies.%20Concessions.%20Franchise.%20Contracts.%20Bounties.%20Subsidies.%20Cartels.%20Where%20Practicable%2C%20Concession%2C%20Ect.%2C%20Are%20Classified%20Under%20Their%20Specific%20Subjects.%2C%20March%2016%2C%201945%20-%201754-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
: FC - Mr. Jack Noa1
DATE: March 16, 1945
FROM : CD - Mr. Robert Terr1ll
RPT
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
Subversive Activities of Japanese Businesses in the U.S.
The Comnodities Division of the State Department 1s
7R
preparing a Civil Affairs Guide and a policy study for
the Department on the subject of Japanese cartels and
894.20211
combines. In studying the extent of the coordination of
activities between Japanese private business and govern-
ment, the Division wishes to gather appropriate evidence
as to the espionage activities of Japanese business con-
cerns or their representatives in the United States.
894.602/3-1645
The Department's files reveal that it is in receipt
of material from the Bureau on the espionage activities
in the United States of such Jerge Japanese business units
as the Mitsui Dussan and Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha. How-
ever, the material appears to be of a fragmentary character
based on separate reports coming into the FBI.
The Division would like to inquire whether the Bureau
has prepared a single study on this subject giving the
Bureau's judgment of the extent and importance of these
activities. If such a study has been prepared or is con-
templated, the Commodities Division would appreciate it if
the Bureau would make this material available.
CS/LE
WEA
MAR I 9 1945
file
0CT121945
4,60
mtH.
ω.
CD:EMH:MC

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
WLT
NO. 64
DATE:NOVember 29, 1945
TO
AC: Mr. Fisher Hole
FROM :
Ik: Mr. Walter M. Kudolph
SUBJECT:
State-war Mission to Study Stenaards for Disestablishment
of Jspencse Comtincs
d martin of uK has been negotiating vith the War
be artment to have thet department finance a 3 month
mission to Tokyo (leaving Washineton December 15) to
study the Zaibatsu problem end to recomnend to the State
cnd war Depert eats standards Por disestablishing the
a anese combines. Mertin has esked the Industry Branch
end the Antitrust Livision of Justice to recruit experts
for this mic: ion. A copy of the letter requesting the
se artlent f uustice's assistance is attached. The
follovin men hsve bean selected:
Corwin Ldverds
State
cenes Henierson
Justice
willier Dixon
Justice
willirm Dutz (tentative)
Justice
Benjemin sllace
Tariff Commission
FTC
hobert Dawnint
169
Remond Vernon
SLC
894.60
STATE
46
Sauel Neel
Robert Hunter
At  meetine yesteraey with the War Department,
Martin ana I  ere a visea thnt the Jer Department would
rinance the miscion with the exce tion of the salaries
of tiose memoers wro are cn the payroll of a government
aeency. Consequently it is necescory thet we get clear-
11-2945
ance from t ose eencies on this point.
I called Er. phnston Avery this mornin to inquire
whether Justice would be willin to permit the custice
men, indicated above, to wori vith the mission and keep
thet on its payroll during the 8 months' of mission work.
He suc ested thet in sraer to expeiite this mstter, it
Louls be desirable to have Mr. Thorpe telephone Mr. Berge
and obtain ay rovel. In the event thet My. Berge ap roved,
Hr. Avery could, he seid, make the necessary arrangements.
It sula further expedite the metter if Mr. Thorpe
woula be o  enoueh to telephone the folloving to ctear
the arransument vith respect to the salaries of the men
from

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
-2-
fom the Tariff Commission, Federal Trade Commission,
end the Securities na Exchange Comnission:
Oscer Ryde , Chairman, Tariff Commission
Robert E. Freer, Cheirmar, Federal Trade Commission
Ganson Purcell, Chairman, SEC (Philedelphia)
Attechnent
In:.Rudolph: amm
11--15

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
ABSISTANT ATTERNEY GENERAL
ASSISTANT 'SECRETARY
Department of Justice
W. L. CLAYTON
Mashington
NOV 1 3 1945
5411
A-C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
November 9, 1945
Honorable William L. Clayton
ODITIES DIVISION
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
NOV 16 1945
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Clayton:
This acknowledges your letter of October 31 in which you request
my cooperation in selecting a group of five to ten experts to spend two
or three months in Japan preparing a statement of criteria to guide this
Government in breaking up and destroying the influence of the large family
combines commonly known as the "Zaibatsu".
I heve given considerable thought to this situation and am now pre-
pared to nominate the following lawyers from the staff of the Antitrust
Division:
William Brinton Butz, 43 years old, born in Alburtis, Pennsylvania.
Mr. Butz received his B.A. from Yale College in 1926 and his LL.B. from
Yale Law School in 1929. He.was engaged in private practice, mostly of
a corporate nature, in Allentown, Pennsylvania, until 1942 when he joined
the staff of the Office of Economic Warfare on a part-time basis as a
consultant and attorney at $25.00 a day. In November 1943 he transferred
to the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice as a Special Assistant
to the Attorney General on a part-time basis although rated as a P-8 Principal
Attorney. He has had much experience in the cartel field during the past
three years.
William Cornelius Dixon, 41 years old, born in Dexter, New York.
Mr. Dixon received his A.B. in 1925 from the University of Michigan and
his LL.B in 1928 from the University of Michigan Law School. He had an
outstanding academic record. He engaged in private practice in Cleveland,
Ohio, and at one time was elected to fill an unexpired term as Associate
Justice of the Supreme Court of Ohio. He joined the staff of the Antitrust
Division in April 1944 as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General at
$79l0 per annum. I have recently recommended that his salary be increased
to $8500. He prepared, tried, and won in the lower court the Titanium
international cartel case which involved Japanese monopolies as well as some
of the most powerful corporations in this country.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Posey Thornton Kime, 50 years old, born in Petersburg, Indiana.
Mr. Kime received his Art's degree in l9l5 from Purdue University, his
LL.B. in 1922, his LL.M. in 1934 and his J.D. in 1937 from the Indiana
Law School. In 1938-39 he took additional work at George Washington
University. From 1930 to 1938 he was Judge of the Indiana State Court
at a salary of $10,O00. He joined the staff of the Antitrust Division
in June 194l as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General and has a
salary of $7175. Judge Kime hes conducted some of the most important
Antitrust investigations in recent years and is thoroughly familiar with
these techniques and procedures.
As you suggested, I got in touch with the Securities & Exchange
Commission and they have nominated three men well versed in the enforcement
of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act. I have made inquiries of each
of these men, all now in private practice, and I think I wili be able to
nominate at least one of them in the next few days.
I have also had several discussions with the Chief Counsel of the
Federal Trade Commission and efforts are being made to select one top
man from their legal staff. When this selection is finally determined
I shall nominate him.
I have also been in touch with the Federal Tariff Commission and
have suggested that they select one of their best economists, thoroughly
familiar with the export phase, who could serve as Economic Advisor to
the mission. When this selection is finally determined I shall nominate
him.
I have also talked with Dr. Frank Graham, President of the University
of North Carolina, who is no doubt known to you and respected by you. He
will not be able to give us an answer on his availability before next Monday.
In addition we are carrying on conversations with two or three other
men, notably Professor Walton Hamilton of the Yale Law School. It is pos-
sible that at least one of this latter group may be available and if so I
shall meke that additional nomination.
I think I should inform you that the Department of Justice has received
a letter from Major General J. H. Hilldring, Director of the Civil Affairs
Division of the War Department, in which he asks us to assist him in select-
ing a staff to be sent to Japan for the purpose of advising the Theatre
Commander along lines suggested in your letter of October 31. General Hilldring
2

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
has specifically asked for three officials experienced in Alien Property
Custodian matters, six lawyers experienced in the enforcement of the
Antitrust laws, and six lawyers experienced in Securities & Exchange
Commission affairs, three of whom should be familiar with the enforcement
of the Public Utilities Holding Company Act and three of whom should be
familiar with registration statements.
On the basis of telephone conversations with members of your staff
I assume that as a broad general proposition the plan contemplates that
the State Department's mission shall prepere the statement of criteria,
or the policy, and the War Department group shall take over the execution
of that policy once it is established. Proceeding under this assumption
I have been devoting my first efforts to the recruitment of the mission
for the State Department and after that is completed I will turn my atten-
tion to the task of recruiting the requested personnel for the War Department
in so far as the Antitrust requirements are concerned.
As regards the mission for the State Department, we feel that certain
clarifications of detai:: are necessary. I would greatly appreciate it,
therefore, if you would clarify, in so far as it is possible for you to
do so, the following points:
1. It is felt that the scope and authority of the State Department's
mission should be defined in more particularity. It should be known to
the mission the source of its authority and to whom it will report. It
is also suggested that there should be a letter from the State Department
to the head of the mission or to each member thereof defining the nature
of the assignment and establishing their status in the Japanese theatre.
2. It is felt that provision should be made for the recruitment of
a junior steff on the ground. Each member of the mission should have
available a small corps of assistants, including junior legal assistants,
research assistants, file searchers, translators, and stenographers. We
will be glad to draw up specific proposals in this respect if you desire.
3. It is felt that whatever material has been assembled in this
country on the "Zaibatsu" should be mede available to the members of the
mission at the earliest possible moment.
4. It is felt that some understanding should be reached concerning
living conditions for the mission while in Japan and that the head of the
mission, if not all of the members thereof, should be given the assimilated
rank of Brigadier General.
3

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
I would be glad to discuss this matter with you personally were it
not for the fact that I am compelled to leave this afternoon for the
West Coast. During my absence however you or the members of your staff
may deal with Mr. Johnston Avery, my Administrative Assistant, who is
fully authorized to represent me in this matter.
Sincerely yours,
WhudellBege
WENDELL BERGE
Assistant Attorney General

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
WENDELL BERGE
marten
AGSINITANT ATTORNEY GEDHERAL
Department of Justice
Rudregh C.
Mashington
December 28, 19
COMMODITIES DIVISION
JAN 7 - 1946
JAH4-3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Honorable Willard L. Thorp
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
for Economic Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Thorp:
This acknowledges your letter of December 7 in which
you ask that Mr. James McI. Henderson, Mr. William Dixon,
Mr. William B. Butz and Mr. Samuel E. Neel be continued on
the payroll of the Department of Justice during the time
they are working under the direction of the State Department
on the "Zaibatsu" mission.
This is to inform you that the Department of Justice
will be glad to accede to your request in this matter,
provided transportation, housing, meals, per diem and
other expenses, exclusive of salaries, are paid by some
other agency.
MindellBerg
Sincerely yours,
WENDELL BERGE
Assistant Attorney General
FORVICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
Martant
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION
 Uepenty tu r. sy
WASHINGTON 25
DEC181945
December 14, 1945.
EWIN L. DAVIS
CHAIRMAN
CEPARTMENT OF 1ATS
My dear Mr. Thorp:
I am writing in reply to your letter of Lecember
7tn, in vwhich the services of Attorney Robert B. Dawkins of
our staii are requested for assignment for a period of not
more than ninety aays, to assist a mission of experts which
is bein: sent to Jupan by the vepartment of State and the
lar Department, about ecember 15th, for work in connection
with the aisestablishing of tne Japanese business monopolies,
etc.
t is noted that the Wur epartment has undertaken
to finance the nission, witn the understanding that the
saleries or tho:e members on the payroll of the Government
agencies will be paid by the agencies, and other expenses
will be covered by the War vepartment, and also that the
Bureau of the budget nas auvised that it would have no
objection to the Federal Trade Commission paying Mr. Dawkins'
salary while engaged on the work of the mission.
Your letter of December 7th was received December
lOth. On the same day the Commission requested a decision of
the Comptrolier General as to whether epproval would be given to
the payment by the Federal Trade Commission of Mr. Dawkins'
salary during his assinment to this work. We are informed,
however, that the Comptrolier's decision cannot be rendered
prior to the date - December l5th - on wnich the mission is
scheduled to leave for Tokyo.
In its desire to facilitate the work of the mission,
the Co mission has authorized the deta:l of Mr. Dawkins, as
requested in your letter of December 7th, and this letter may
be taken as its certification to that effect, and with the
understanding that the Commission will pey Mr. Dawkins' salary
during this assignment.
by direction of the Commission.
ODITIES DIVISION
lours sincerely,
Dav1945
ewin .
Ewin L. DaVis, DLlARTMENT OF STATE
Chairmen.
Hon. Willard L. Thorp,
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
P.S. A copy of the
for Economic Affeirs,
Comptroller's decision
Department of Stete,
dated December l4th, which
Washington, D. C.
was received late this
afternoon is attached.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
Nn
DEC 2 0 1945
UNITED STATES TARIFF COMMISSION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25
December 10, 1945
Mr. Willard L. Thorp
mC
Deputy to the Assistant
Secretary for Economic Affairs
Department of State
DEC141945
Washington 25, D. C.
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Thorp:
In compliance with the request contained in your letter of
December 7, the Commission is agreeable to the detail of Mr. Benjamin
B. Wallace to be a member of a mission which the Department of State
and the War Department are sending to Japan to study the problem of
disestablishing the Japanese business monopolies and destroying the
influences of the large family combines.
The Commission will pay Mr. Wallace's salary, it being under-
stood that the War Department will take care of other expenses.
Sincerely yours
Oreanhyder
PORYICTORY
Oscar B. Ryder
BUY
Chairman
UNITED
heay.
STATES
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Philadelphia 3, Pennsylvania
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN
January 75 1946
COMMODITIES DIVISION
JAN10 1946
The Honorable Willard L. Thorp
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
for Economic Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Thorp:
Reference is made to your letter of December 7, 1945, re-
lating to a mission of experts to be sent to Tokyo under a joint
arrangement of the Department of State and the War Department for
not more than ninety days for the purposes ofstudying the problem
of disestablishing Japanese business monopolies and destroying the
influences of the large family combines commonly known as the
"Zaibatsu." In your letter you request that Mr. Raymond Vernon,
a member of the staff of this Commission, be made available for
this assignment.
You are informed that this Commission has formally authorized
the loan of Mr. Vernon's services for the above mentioned assign-
ment with the express understanding that his salary will be paid
by this agency and that transportation, housing, meals, per diem,
and other perquisites will be paid directly by the War Department.
Sincerely yours,
GannAmuel
Ganson Purcell
Chairman

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMODITIES DIVISION
NOV 2 0 1945
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
5458
November 14, 1945
ASSISTANT SECHETAHY
W. L. CLAYTON
NOV 15 1945
Honorable Villiam L. Clayton
Assistant Secretary of State
A-C
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Vashington, D.C.
Dear r. Clayton:
In compliance with instructions from ür. Berge, who is out of the
city, and in further reference to your letter to Mr. Berge under date
of October 31 and his reply of November 9 concerning the selection of
a group of experts to assist in the preparation of a statement of
criteria to guide this government in breaking up the influence of the
"Zaibatsu", we are prepared to make two additional nominations as
follows:
Dr. kobert . Hunter, 50 years old, born in Urbana, Ohio. Dr.
Hunter received his B.A. from Wesleyan, his J.D. from Ohio State and
his J.S.). from Yale in 1932. He was elected to the Order of the Coif.
He was wounded in World ar I, but his injury does not interfere with
the performance of his duties. He engaged in private practice and was
Assistant Prosecuting Attorney for four years, and in 1925 became
Professor of Law at Ohio State University. He joined the staff of the
Antitrust Division on a part-time basis in October 194l and participated
in many of our most important cartel investigations. Several months
ago he transferred to the Federal Power Commission on a part-time basis
and is heading up their investigation of the Natural Gas industries.
Dr. Benjamin Bruce nallace, 62 years old, born in wooster, Ohio.
He was educated at Macalester College, St. Paul, Minnesota, Oxford
University, and University of Wisconsin. He taught at Northwestern
University and Georgetown School of Foreign Service and in 19l8 was
appointed special expert in the United States Tariff Commission. He
later became Chief of Division of International Relations, 192l-28;
member Kemmerer Commission and adviser to ministry of finance of National
Government of China, 1929-3l; office of economic adviser, Department of
State, 193l-32; chief of Division of International Relations, United
States Tariff Commission, 1933-38, and adviser on foreign commercial
policies, 1938--. He is joint author of "International Control of Raw
FORYICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Materials", 193l, and was technical adviser with U. S. delegation to
the World Economic Conference of 1933. Dr. Wallace would be available
for assignment to the Japanese mission any time after December 1.]
I regret to inform you that Dr. Frank P. Graham, President of the
University of North Carolina, has telegraphed us that he cannot be
considered for this mission.
As you suggested, we got in touch with the Securities & Exchange
Commission and they recommended three men versed in the enforcement of
the Public Utilities Holding Company Act. We have heard from two of
these men who are not available and we have not heard from the third.
We are continuing our effort to get one qualified man from the
legal staff of the Federal Trade Commission but have not yet received
a recommendation from that agency.
re understand that the Department of State has been successful in
securing the services of Dr. Corwin Edwards as head of the mission and
we are, of course, very pleased with this arrangement.
Faithfully,
gon.im
JOHNSTON AVERY
Administrative Assistant, Antitrust Division

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRESS REPLY TO
AND REFER TO
INITIALS AND NUMBER
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
WASHINGTON, D.C.
November 23, 1945
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. RUDOLPH
In response to your telephone call today I am giving
you nerewith the following biological sketch:
James cl. Henderson is 34 years old, born in Dainger-
field, Texas. Mr. Henderson went to tne University of Texas
from 1929 to 1932, majoring in accounting and pre-legal work,
and his LL.B. in 1938. From 1933 to August 1938 Mr. Henderson
was Assistant Secretary to Senator Sheppard of Texas. He
joined the staff of the Antitrust Division in 1938 and nas
gone the whole course from law clerk to Chief of the three
west coast offices of tne Antitrust Division, succeeding
Attorney General Clark in tnat position. He is a man of
sound judgment and has had fine experience in antitrust and
cartel cases. Moreover he nas a rare faculty for getting
things done. He is regarded as one of the half dozen best
men in the Antitrust Division.
JOHNSTON AVERY
Administrative Assistant
Antitrust Division
FOPDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
ANDSTAMPS

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
:Mr.Martin
DATB: December 6, 1945
FROM :
Robert W. Barnett
SUBJECT:
Bill Lockwood and Henry Owen believe that the Zeibatsu mission
would be reatly strengthened by inclusion of Frank Tamagna on
its staff. I tried to contact tudolph to inquire what complications
would be involved in adding his name to the group now being
processed to go to Japan. udolph hed left for the afternoon.
Frank must ive his answer to the Jar Department within the
next two or three days at the latest. He believes that the
4cibatsu mi sion would offer hi more interesting and profitable
opportunities in Japan even than those which Cremer might offer.
If you wish to have Frank go on the Zaibatsu mission, will
you take the matter up with oidolph pointing out the necessity
for fairly swift action. As Frank must give the War Department
his reply al ost i mediately and as the Zaibatsu mission is
leaviny elmost as soon it may be impossible to make the necessary
602
arrange ents immedictely. Frank will be telephoning this office
for so e indicetion for what we have done and our view of his
preference in this matter between 10:30 and 11:30 to orrow
(that is Thursday).
2
645
JK:..B:il

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
My dear Mr. Eáwards:
You have been appeinted head of a missien to make
resemmendatiens semeeraing poliey for effestively dis-
894.
the War and State Departments Jeintly. It will prepere
a Pepert for the Sesretaries of Var and State, setting
forth its recemmemdations.
602/1
This mission will proeeed to Japan as seen as the
War Department eak arrange for transportatien. While
in Japan, the mission will eperate wnder the smatherity
and control ef the Sepreme Cemmander. Every effert
should be made to complete the missiea's repert befere
2
Leaving Japak in erder that it may be transmitted te
心
2945
by sueh semments as be may vish to make.
Arrangements for transpertatien, hozsing, and
rationing Gutside Japan will be made by the War Depart-
ment, and arrangemeats for these matters and fer effise
spase and fasilities, interpreters, and stemegraphers
SS5
Supreme Gommander has been asked to make relevant data
L1
pertimemt iaformation frem the Japamese and to fasilitate
contasts with Japanese effieials and businessmen. Sele-
m
ries ef members er the mission will be paid by the
6
various
4.602
DCB
1t
Gervin D. Eáwarás, Censmltant,
Department ef state,
Waskingten 25, D.G.
:al.
-2945

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.84)
to retura te the Waited states met later then 
sineerely yours,
willard L. Themp.
for Beememie Affeirs.
DEC 29 1945
5T
JA
JK
OFS
IR:WMRudolph:amm
Tunche
urt
12-28-45
it will
being 2sta
thin

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
25
FEB 27 10
Ia roply refer to
Ny dear Golomel Woodward:
I a enelosing an urgent message te Mr. Cervia
D. Edwards, Read of the Zaibatsu Missien in Tekye.
Mr. Kdwards is working elesely with Celenel Wheeler
894.602/2-2746
of the Esomemie and Seientirie Seetien ef sGλP. It
will be appreeiated if you will have this message
traasmitted to Mr. Edwards by eable.
Sinserely yours,
1.2745
111.693/
Robert P. Terrill
Assistant Chief, Intermational
Resourees Divisien.
894.602/12.2945
Enclosure:
Draft of eable to
Mr. Corwin D.
Edvards
13
3
Colomel &. M. Woodward,
CS
Givil Affairs Division,
N05
OR
Room 3-B-863,
PEB 26 1946
Pentagon Building,
Washington, D.C.
ww
Ched mica m. Gr
2
JK
JAng tphome 2125/46.
IR:WMRudo1ph:amm 2/25/46

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
DATE: Apr11 11, 1946
TO
: FE and JA
FROM : H. K.
suject: Recommendations of Mission on Japanese Combines.
1. That large companies be sorutinized for possible connection with
Zaibatsu and that this be followed by dissolution, not only of top
holding companies, but of Zaibatsu corporate combines.
2. Enterprises based upon Zaibatsu family ties should be broken; mem-
bers of Zaibatsu clans should be divested of their holdings and ejeoted
from all responsible business positions. However, after lo years under
aoceptable conditions they may re-enter business activities.
3. While Zaibatsu should be compensated, compensation should not be
large enough to enable re-entry into Japanese economy. Taxation,
possible partial confiscation or overly large sale of Zaibatsu pro-
perty, and funds frozen in government bonds for 10 years suggested as
means of preventing such come-back.
4. Zaibatsu holdings should be liquidated within two years and sales
soreened to exclude guise for Zaibatsu.
5. Financial alliances should be broken by restriotions prohibiting
large stockholders from holding office or of holding large investments
0
in several companies.
2
6. Termination of all legislation controlling monopolies exoept in
cases of public usefulness, and enactment of such legislation allowing
for free enterprise.
7. Inside control of corporations can be reduoed by requirements that
management give a full accounting for its stewardship and by prohibiting
officers and directors from holding interlocking positions or from
holding investments in other companies.
8. Income and inheritance taxes should be steeply graduated and pro-
perty inherited by the Head of a House should be subject to rates
applicable to other heirs.
9. Cooperatives should be encouraged by removal of restrioting legis-
lation and termination of government participation in affairs of
agricultural associations.
l0. In order to gain Japanese support for this program, recent English
literature about problems of industrial organization should be made
available; SCAP's findings regarding the Zaibatsu should be publicized;
a Japanese commission should investigate the Zaibatsu and publioize its
findings; revised educational system should direct attention to danger
of excessive concentration of economio power; and provision should be
made for contact between Japanese antitrust and similar bodies in
other countries.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 19 1946
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Pureell:
In Jammary the Securities and Exehange Gommissiem
was kind enough to permit Nr. Raymond Fermem to sellab-
orate in the work in Tokyo of the State-War Pepartment
zaibatsu mission wnder the direction of kr. Cerwin B.
Edvards.
On behalr of this Department, I wish to express
894.602/4-1946
my thanks to you for your cooperation im this matter
and my appreciation to Mr. Vermem for the outstanding
services whieh he has rendered. The results ef the
mission's investigation will be imvaluable in cenneetien
with the development of a positive course ef astiem te
solve important problems concerning Japanese eombines
and other ooncentrations of economie power.
I should like to add that Major Gemeral Marquat
of General NaeArthur's staff has highly commended the
mission for functioning as an integral part ef that
staff and assisting in the solution of preblems that
were beyond the immediate seope er the mission's work.
Sincerely yours,
Willard L. Thorp
CS/VJ
K
Deputy to the Assistant Seeretary
for Economie Affairs
412
A tree py
the
The Henorable
Garson Purcell, Chairman,
894.602
Securities and Exchange Commission,
Eighteenth and Locust Streets,
Philadelphia 3, Pemnsylvania.
18
14-1946
IR: WMRudolph: amm
4/10/46

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
APR 19 1946
Ny dear Mr. Ayres:
Last December the Federal Trade Cemmission was
kind enough to permit Nr. Robert Dawkina to eellaberate
for three months in the work in Tokyo of the State-War
Department zaibatsu missigr under the direetion of
894.602/4-1946
Mr. Corwin D. Edwards.
994 602/11-2942
Om behalf of this Departmemt, I wish to express
my thanks to the Commission for its eooperatiom in
this matter and my appreciation to Mr. Dawkins for the
outstanding services whieh he has rendered. The re-
sults of the mission's investigation will be invalmable
in connection with the development of a positive eourse
of action to solve important problems comeerning
Japanese combines and other concentrations of ecomomie
power.
I should like to add that Major General Marquat
of General MacArthur's staff has highly commended the
mission for funotioning as an integral part of that
staff and assisting in the solution or problems that
were beyond the immediate soope of the missien's werk.
Sincerely yours,
CS/VJ
Willard L. Thorp,
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
for Lconomic Affairs.
The Honorable
CR
William A. Ayres, Chairman,
Federal Trade Commission,
602
Washington 25, D. C.
IR: WMRudolph: amm
4/10/46
17?
pf
4.1946

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.67)
rea rmur ito
ds i
 des
af thr concentati

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
Mr. Willard L. Thorp
FROM :
Mr. Walter M. Rudolph - IR
aPh 19
SUBJECT:
You may recall that last December I prepared for
your signature letters to Mr. Berge of the Justice De-
partment, Mr. Purcell of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Mr. Ryder of the Tariff Commission and
Mr. Davis of the Federal Trade Commission, in which
they were requested to make available the services of
certain experts in their respective agencies for work
in Tokyo with Corwin Edwards on the zaibatsu mission.
As you know, the roup has returned from Japan
and the men are back at their regular work. The report
M
which Corwin brought back is being stencilled and
duplicated.
It occurred to me that you may like to send the
enclosed lettere to express the Department's apprecia-
tlon for the cooperation of Mr. Berge and the others
in makin the men available and for the good work per-
formed by the men themselves.
Cat.
Dist.
RPT
1.117
IR:WMRudolph:amm
4/10/46

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
AP19 1946
In reply refer to
IR
Ny dear Nr. Berge:
Last December the Department of Justiee was kind
enough to permit Mr. James M. Handerson. Mr. William
Dixon and Mr. Samuel E. Neel to collaborate for three
months in the work in Tokyo of the State-War Departmemt
894.602/4-1946
zaibatsu mission under the direetion of Mr. Gorvin D.
Edwards.
On behalf of this Department, I wish to express
my thanks to you for your cooperation im this matter
and my appreciation to these gentlemem for the out-
standing services whieh they have rendered. The re-
sults of the mission's investigation will be invaluable
in connection with the development of a positive sourse
of action to solve important problems concerning
Japanese combines and other soncentrations of economie
power.
I should like to add that Major General Marquat
of General MacArthur's staff has highly commended the
mission for functioning as an integral part of that
staff and assisting in the solution of problems that
were beyond the immediate seope of the mission's work.
Sincerely yours,
CS/VJ
Willard L. Thorp,
Deputy to the Assistant Sesretary
for Esomomic Affairs.
PA 15
The Honorable
894.602/
Wendell Berge,
Assistant Attorney General,
Department of Justiee,
Washington 25, D. C.
RT
IR: WMRudolph: amm
4/10/46
IT
Pt
1946

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
7104
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
PREPARING OFFICE WILE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
TYPE HERE CLEARLY THE
collect
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
Department of State
MESSAGE:
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Washington
Cherge to State Dept.
NO DISTRIBUTION
AUG 281946
Professor Corwin Edwards
1719 Hinman Avenue
Evenston, Illinois
Sherwood Fine's vacation requires postponing your trip
to tshin ton from sept 3 to Hon., Sept 9. Making reservation
at Hay Adams. Unless hear from you will expect to see you
Mon. morning. Fron Henry Cwen.
人
2duin(rlhatin
Edwin M. Martin, Chief
Division of Japanese end
Korean Economic Affairs
291
94.602/8-2846
DIVISION OF
Usaix
5
C
N.x: Howen:il
2775
8/28/46

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION COP
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
 fice of
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ASTERN AFFAIRS
020 1946
17
Moscow
10:200n
varmment of State
Action
FE
Dated Ootober 28, 1946
Info:
S
PL\IN
Rec'd 5:38 a.m., 29th
U
C
Control 9589
LE
EUR
DC/L
SECSTATE
ITP
OCT2918467
ESP
OFD
3991, To y ght
894.602/10-2846
A--B
UE
PRAVDA,  ot 28 ditorial by M. Markov
A-H
SAM
we leading rore rui ng oligarshy, which included
SPA
el:e militaris'  cat andlordr nd Lmperor (himseif
OCD
a reat stocknc d in  nopolistio concerns) and that
FC
do ing war col b. vion betwcen za:batsu and militarists
OIC
wu casy to oe ar tha zaioatsu e cumulated great profits
PA
n in finer wa
It Is a= sounding, therefore,
DC/R
tht Anglo-Amo ct pres has supported propaganda
campaign Zaine u , sho Japanese capitalists had
no hing to co  th ilit rists and id not know of
aguressive piums11  is shamefu lie of the
Ja anese is mmpi. by . prtainty o' support by foreign
co panies in t : an Us From very first merican
dc upation 
Japan ori nted themselves toward
business
moas ate clomen's" allegedly ready to
cooperate in  o ng  Liturism ard reorganizing Japan
democretical
onf panese monopolistic bossos
was tried es a n, rim al, dospite perfoctly obvious
ro ponslbiixy f ibar a ror aggrc ssion Moreover all
Ja anese pos er  bines havo had persons very closely
as ociated v ch Ze atsu
Japanese Government has done
ev rything  t in vlate positions of those
concerns and nes  n p i out to them 40 billion yen
in compensation f "we anages"
MacArthur's
di ective on i u  tio: of zaiba su appeared in 1945
bu in yoar strce en  panes monopolists have taken
ne essary ste 
istr butc tosks of thoir ccmpanies so
thet they ce  1ly ought up again.
Another naneuver
is appeai te A ri. u mo opo ist capital ith which
NOV
Raibatnu havo
FILED
1
PI/IN
-61946
C
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAIN
-2-. #3991, Twenty-eighth, from Moscow.
Zaibatua have long term connections, Berore war American
firms bought larg3 share stocks in Mitsui, Mitsubishi
and Sumitomo companies. Tnirty percent or electric company
Mitsubishi belongs to vestinghouse ana Mitsui concern is
closely connecced with General Electric. Many other
connections are mentioned between Jepanese concerns and
American, and it is stated American monopolies are
interested on one nand in obtaining their share of
pror'ics as sherenolders in 7aibatsu concerns aud, on the
other hand, by retaining economic foundations of Zaibatsu
aystem. in subordinating entire Japanese economy to
itself with aid Zaibatsu. So-called Edwards plan
worked out by special State Department mission pursues this
purpose in particular, Policy of American occupational
authorities is cloarly directed toward establishment of
Amorican monopolisti positiona in Japan. Amorican
practice there 1s very far frem principle proclaimed by
Us in relation to othor powers of "equal opportunities
end activit non-American foreign enterprises in Jepan
1s limited or pro ibited on grounds that this may
"complicete probloms of occupation'.
Since war Zcibatsu continues to control policy
Japanese Goverrnment. opposing democratization of
country. Destrvntion of its influonce demands decisive
nd radical measures. No matter how raptuously Bevin
referred to administrative abilities General MacArthur,
fact remains fact and domocratization of Japan is as far
away as heaven from earth.
Department repeat to Tokyo.
DORBROW
Note: Repeated to Tokyo 10/29/46 CWO-np1
JMSgPPM
PLAIN

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
NOV 1 4 1946
TO
:A-H - General Hilldring
DATE: November 12, 1946
GENERAL HILLDRING
FROM : JK - Mr. Martin
suject:U.S. Program for Reaching Level of Industry Decisions for Japan
I understand from ir. Barnett that in a conference with
Sir George Sansom you expressed concern over delay in submitting
U.S. proposals with respect to the Japanese level of industry to
the FEC. I should like to clarify the U.S. position on this matter
by outlining the status of our program, involving four separate
steps.
1. Narrowing the scope of debate:
(a) The interim reparations program, involving sharp
capacity cutbacks in ten major industries, submitted to
the FEC on 9 May 1946 and approved by it on 13 May 1946.
(b)
The assured retention program, involving minimum level of
industry guarantees for the same ten industries, sub-
mitted to the FEC on August 12, 1946. It has not been
approved, due, largely, to Chinese objection as a matter
11-1246
of politics and not of substance, a position with which
you are familiar.
2.
Statement of general policy to govern the level of particular
industries:
(a)
The "determination of Japanese peaceful needs paper pro-
viding a base period to which Japanese consumption and
capacity should be adjusted in order to provide security
and to provide equipment for reparations removals was
submitted to FEC on July 22, 1946. It has not been ap-
proved due to Chinese political objections and Soviet
lack of positive instructions.
(b)
The reduction of Japanese war potential paper, specifying
those industries which, for security reasons, must be
completely eliminated, and those industries which, for
security reasons, must be cut back to reach the over-all
level stipulated by the paper in 2(a) above, was presented
to the FEC on August 13, 1946. It has been held up by
debate on a minor point which we hope to have resolved
shortly.
2. The

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
3.
The final determination of the level of capacity to be
permitted in particular industries:
(a)
There is involved just one paper which would, for the
industries listed in the paper 2(b) above, determine
their capacities in terms of principles set forth in
2(a). This paper, based upon the conclusions of the
Pauley Comprehensive Report and adjusted for the de-
tailed and difficult forecast of the Japanese foreign
trade position which is required by our policy, cannot
be finally formulated until there is FEC decision on
2(a) and 2(b) above. Nor did the U.S. wish to
finalize its position without full comments from SCAP
on the Pauley proposals and on studies in progress
here fbr two years on the future of Japanese foreign
trade. SCAP comments on Pauley report, given him in
May were not received until September. Due to various
difficulties a satisfactory forecast of the future
Japanese balance of payments was not available until
last month. On the basis of these documents a U.S.
position has been agreed to at the working level;
final action by SWNCC is delayed for SCAP comments on
the detailed balance of payments data which War Depart-
ment thought should be secured. They are expected
daily. It was our hope that as soon as final SWNCC
action was taken the U.S. would submit to the Repara-
tions Conference the proposed levels of the industries
to be cut back, together with as full factual data as
possible, to permit other countries to reach conclusions
of their own. The time and manner of presentation will,
of course, be determined in the light of the decisions
on reparations procedure now being reached.
4.
Permanent restrictions on Japanese level of industry:
(a)
Apart from the proposals in the draft 25 year demobiliza-
tion and disarmament treaty, applying only to direct
military production, the question of permanent or long-
term limits on Japanese capacities has been discussed
only in preliminary form in connection with a study of
U.S. position on a Japanese peace treaty. SCAP proposals
were requested in the basic directive issued a year ago,
but have not been received. He has recently been
prodded on this.
I hope

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
I hope this outline of the situation will be helpful. All four
of the documents on which there is a U.S. position have been before
the FEC for a considerable time and one of them has been approved.
These include the two basic policy papers of most interest to and
most appropriate for FEC policy decision. The remaining documents
required to implement the basic policy can be put before it as soon as
the U.S. position has been reached. It will be a subject of great and
prolonged controversy, if our preliminary information about the views
of some of the other countries turns out to be correct. This makes it
important that we submit cur proposal only after we have full agreement
on it and complete statistical backing for it. I believe we shall have
this within the next week or so.
The whole matter has been handled in conjunction with the repara-
tions program because of the long-standing U.S. view that reparations
removals should be confined to capacity made available by the new
levels fixed for Japanese industry by security considerations.
11/13/46
JK:EDiartin:jph:el

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
4
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Action:
ESP
PIAIN
Info
S
DIVISION OF IAPANESE AND KODA
U
Contro4491
ECOLOMIC AFFAIRS
C
OFP OTMENT OF STATE
LE
Rec'd November 15, 1946
EUR
8:35 a.m.
ACT
151946
INF
FE
ESP
DC/L
FROM.
MOSCOW
ES
ITP
2
GA
OFD
TO
Secretary of Stal
JK
A-B
3
U-E
NO
4141. Fifteenth
A-H
SA/M
Summery follous. 22 colutu I2VEsTIYA November 14 article by
894.602/
SPA
V. Yarovot. "Postwar Ecohomy of Jhpan and Amerlcan
OGD
ionopolies
FC
OIC
"Polley of Japenese ruling circles since capitulation
PA
has been direeted tovard doing everything poasible to
DC/R
subwert thoir fulfillment *r* one means for attaining
this purpose vas tendeney of Japanese monopolies to
Fees tablish their pre-war tles with commercial
XR
indusrr tal end banking eireles of Us and Britain **
from first days following capitulation of Japen many
Lceders of influentiel American firms began to consider
how c restorr Japen ss suppller of number of products
546
" 1t is culte underatandeble that American monopolies
shoved iittie interest in fact that pre-war stream of
gocds from US to China assisted Japanese military
production and therefore had direct effect on Pearl Harbor
carastrophy **: tendency towards expansion, considera-
tion of military-strategic nature and elso business
have pressed and continue to press American imperiaiists
tovard contact with Zaibatsu and tovard maximum penetra-
tlon of Jepanese postwar econony.
"Anerican businessmen relytng on support of occupetional
autho ities are already making coneiderable efforts
to extract profit from restored Japanese foreign trade."
(flgures foliow on current Jepanese American foreign trade).
"Amerlcen capltal seeks not only to gain possession of
Japan as market for its goods. Amerlcan monopolies are
NOV 1 9 1946
extremely active in quention of capital investment in
FILED
varlous branches
R
PLAIN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
C
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
PLATN
-2- 4141, F1fteenth, from Moscow
varlous branches of postwar Japanese economy. This
1s case both with companies which had capital
investments in Japan prior to war and with those
which evidenced interest in Japen after 1ts capitula-
tion.
"*** total amount of Amerlcan cepitel investment in
pre-war Japan varled between 4 end 5 million dollars.
"Under circumstances and in vlew of growing interest
of American cepital in postwar Jepanese economy
Japanase magnates of rinance welcome in every way
Increasing ectivity of American business circles.
" it goes without saying thet Japanese concerns
are in no way dlsturbed by fact that realizatlon of
thoir appeals to American capitalists will inevitably
lead to enslavement of Japanese economy by forelgn
capltal. Japanese monopolies are anxious to preserve
their positions in country's economy. Cherishing
reams of rebirth of Jepanese 1mperlalism, concerns
seek to :interest' American industrialists to
higneet degree. This finds very broad response
among latter sinee they approach policy from their own
expansionist desires.
"In l1ght of this 'rapprochement' between Japanese Interests
and Amerleen monopolies it becomes clear that during
year since Japen:s capitulation dissolution of Zaibatsu
has been slowed down in every way.
"It is knovm that in 1945 MacArthur issued order for
Zaibatsu's dissolution and drew up measures to this
end. Practical fulfillment of this directive was en-
trusted to Japanese Jovernment which reflected interests
of those very coneerns which it should liquidate. It
Is clear that Zaibatsu clique made broad use of this
circumstance and during yeer since MacArthur's directive
has been able to protect their interests to maximum
and actually to disrupt fulfillment of this directive.
Indeod American oscupation authorities themselves adopted
no severe measures for directive's implementatlon which
was therefore tentamount to a demonstratlon calculated
for foreign corsumption.
"*** on October 1, 1946
PLAIN

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAIN
-3- #4141, Fifteenth, from Moscow
"s** on October 1, 1946 representative of so-called
l1quidation commission under Japanese Government
announced that work had begun to liquldate Zaibstsu.
As result three concerns-Mitsut, Mitsubisht and
Yasuda-stated that they are terminating thelr activity,
in which connection commisslon is receiving from
these concerns securities amounting to 1.7 billion yen.
Representative further indicated that 1l remeining
major Japanese companles will shortly cease their
activity and surrender all their securitles to com-
mission *** 1s this so?
"By end of war, capital of varlous industries banking
and commercial companies controlled by only 4 concerns-
Mitsul. Mitsubishi, Yasuda and Sumitomo- reached total
of about loo billion yen. All these conserns held
not less then 40 percent of country's total national
wealth.
"Thls is why 'self-dissolution' of Mitsul, Mitsubish1
and Yasuda concerns and thelr transfer of securitles
in amount of 1.7 billion yen seems not to be llquidation
of monopoly but common maneuver calculated to deceive
world public opinion. Such 'dissolution' gives
Japanese monopolies opportunity to preserve their
economic end political positions in country.
"But this is primarlly related to policy of American
occupation authorities who according to CHICAGo SUN
correspondent consider that 'adoption at. present of
any radical measures against zaibatsu wouid seriously
reflect against rebirth of Japanese economy'.
"*** it is scarcely surprising that representatives of
these monopolies feel extremely free and, willingly
greeting American axpansionist designs, consider
exploiting with them jointly both popuiation of Japan
and peoples of other Asiatic countries.
"Thus desire
PLAIN

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
PLAIN
-4- #4141. Fifteenth, from Moscow
"Thus desire of American capital to seize Japanese
sconomy meets wide response among mandates of
Japanese finance capital who count on strengthening
their position by satisfying American designs.
All this creates conditions hindering execution of
Potsdam Declaration whlch demands democratizatlon
of Japen and its transformatlon into peaoeful
state."
Departmont please repeat Tokyo.
SMITH
Note:
Repeated to Tokyo, 11.15/46 9:30 e,m. TEM
DU:EJS
PLAIN

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
JA - Mr. Borton
FROM :
IR - Mr. Rudolph vm .
NOV 2 1 1946
EPAMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT:
I am afraid I did not make myself sufficiently clear in my
previous memo. I meant that, so far as I knew, the Commission
had had no reaction to SCAP's comments on the Edwards Mission's
recommendations. Reference was made to these comments last
summer in the U.S. press. The reference to the difficulties
894.602/11
being encountered in the deconcentration program in Tokyo was
primarily for your information. As a result of my vagueness,
the phrasing in your letter to Professor Colegrove will doubtless
lead him to believe that the liquidation proposals, based on the
Edwards Mission's recommendations, were presented to the Com-
mission and no repercussions followed. This is not the case.
May I suggest the following substitute for your second
paragraph.
"The United States program for deconcentration, based
upon the recommendations of the Mission and upon SCAP and
046
other proposals, has not yet been considered by the Far
Eastern Commission. It is not known, of course, how the
Commission will react to the proposed program, but as far
as I know there is no reason to expect adverse consideration.
CS/A
22
81
C
FILED
121946
TW
IR:WMRudolph:oms

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
èECRETARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
JA
Dear Kenneth:
In answer to your letter of October 29, 1946
asking for a copy of the Zaibatsu Mission Report, I
am sending you a copy of the Report together with the
press release of October 24th. This Report consists
actually of findings and recommendations but as SCAP
has continued as classificd material the Mission's
recommendations, they are not contained in the Report
I am sending you.
As far as I know, there have been no repercussions
from the Far Eastern Commission arising out of the pro-
posal for the liquidation of the Zaibatsu. Actually
the big obstacle to moving ahead on this program 1s
money and personnel and when this budget matter 1s
settled and the necessary directives have been 1ssued
the dissolution of the Zaibatsu should be speeded up.
With personal regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
High
Hugh Borton
Chief
Division of Japanese Affairs
Professor Kenneth Colegrove,
Political Science Department,
Northwestern University,
Evanston, Illinois.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CIVIL AFFAIRS DIVISION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
WDSCA 387.6 (23 Nov 46)
3 December 1946
L.TLANATIONAL REROUROFS DIVISION
DE01)1946
Mr. D. D. Kennedy, Chief
DETANIMLAI UI JIATE
International Resources Division
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Kennedy:
894,501
Inclosed are copies of contracts between Zaibatsu and
foreign firms which are forwarded for your information in
accordance with agreement with Judge Spencer of the Civil
Property Custodian's Office, Supreme Commander Allied Powers,
presently in Washington.
894.602
Sincerely yours,
O.P. Echol
1 Incl
O. P. ECHOLS 
Copy of contracts
Major General, USA
w/list attached
Chief, Civil Affairs Division
12-346
PM/R
Anal.
Rev.
Cat.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
INTENEATIONAL CONTRACTS
1. Asahi Glass Ce.
Blue Ridge Glass Gerp.
USA
2. Asaki Glass Co.
Nississippi Glass Co.
3. Asahi Glase Go.
Societe Verrerides de La Gare
et A. Belette Reumies
Prense
4. Fuji Denki Kabushiki Kaisha Siemens Sehuekertwerke
Sismens & Malske
Germaing
5. Furakava Eleetrie Co.
Algemiene Elestrieitates
Gesellsehaft
6. Furakawa Eleetrie Go.
Aluminimm Laboratories,Ltd.
Cammdle
7. Furakawa Eleetrie Co.
Siemems & Halske Aklougesellsehart Sermeny
8. Furakawa Eleetrie Co.
Vereinigte Leightmetall Werke Gesmeny
9. Gadelims & Co., Ltd.
Aktiefalaget Eamyr
Srebem
10.
Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
Allmanna Ingeniemsbyras
11.
Gadelius & Ce., Ltd.
Area Regulators
12.
Gadelims & Co., Ltd.
Exstrom Nenkinaffer
13.
Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
A.B. Industrimeteder
14.
Gadelims & Co., Ltd.
A.G. Ljungstrome amgtmim
15.
Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
Northerm Equipmemt Co.
USA
16.
Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
A.B. Rosenblade Patenter
Sreden
17.
Gadelins & Co., Ltd.
A.B.Superior
0
18.
Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
A.B.Syrefast Murming
19. Gadelius & Co., Ltd.
A.B.Vaporaskmmalater
20. Gadelims & Co., Ltd.
Yarnall-Waring Co.
USA
20-a Gadelims & C0., Ltd.
S.A.Siadisato Cellulosa Pomilia Italy
21. Hidachi Seisaku-jo
Solex Co.
Franee
Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
22. Kokusan Kegyo Kabushiki Kaisha Sosiete Anoayme Solex
23.
Kokasam Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha Soslete Anoayme Solex
Hitashi Seisakusko, Ltd.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.91)
24. Kabuekiki Kaisha Kyesen Unien Switeh & Sigmal Go.
Se ieskuo je
25. Kabnekiki Kaishe Tokye SvensakmAktiebelaget Legs
Keiki Seisakushe
26. Laste Sanse Kabuskiki Kalsha-Noeker Eleetroshemieal Ce. Usa
27. Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki
Kaisha Titan Kogyo Kabushiki-Daitsu Semrye Gomei Kalsha
Kaisha
28. Kokasan Kogyo Dabushiki Kaishi - Daitsu Senryo Gomei Kaisha
29. Mitsubishi Airerart Co.,Ltd. - Nandley Page, Ltd.
Eagiend
30. Mitsubishi Aireraft Co.,Ltd. - Le Sesiete Henry,Naurise
et Diek Farman
Prepee
31. Mitsubishi Eleetrie Co. Natiomal Pmeumatie Co.
USA
32. Mitsubishi Elestric Co. Westinghouse Airbrake Go.
33. Nitsubishi Eleetrie Co.
Westinghouse Elestrie &
International
34. Kitsubishi Geshi Kaisha Asscslated O1l do.
Nitsubishi Shoji Kabushiki Kaisha
Nitsubishi Shoji Kabushiki Kaisha
35. Mitsubishi Jukogyo Kabushiki - Robert Macgregor and King. Eaglamd
Kaisha
Ltd.
36. Mitsubishi Jukogyo
Soclety Anomyme Advelphe
Franse
Kabushiki Xaisha
Sourer
37. Mitsubishi Jukogyo
Willy Salge & Co.
Germemy
Kabushiki Kaisha
38. Mitsubishi Kogyo
Friedrieh Krupp Grasomwerk A.G.
Kabushiki Kaisha
39. Xitsubishi Neinenk1 Kaishi,-Soelete Anomyme des Carburateurs
Ltd.
et Appareils Glaudel
Franse
40. Mitsu1 Bussan Co., Ltd.
Axtieselshabet Burmeister
Demmark
Wain SMasking-eg
41. Nitsu1 Bussan Co., Ltd. United Aireraft Corporatiom Usa
42. Mitsui Bussan Co., Ltd.
Namiltom standard Propeller Co? "
43. Mitsu1 Miming Col,Ltd.
Gonselidated Nining and
Gamaka
Smelting Go.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
44. Nitsui Zosen Kabushiki Kaisha James Howden & Ge.,Lod.
45. Mitsu1 Zesen Kabushik1 Ka1sha Gotaverken
Switserle
46. Nippen Chisse Hiryo Kabushik1 Kunstdunger-Patent-
Kaishe, Ltd.
Verwertange A.G.
47. Nippon Chisso Hiryo Kabushiki
S.I.B.I. Sosieta Itallama
Italy
Kaisha
Researeh Industriali
48. Nippom-Columbia Co. Ltd.
Elestrie & Nusieal
Eagland
Industries, Ltd.
49. Nippon Columbla Co. Ltd.
Electrie & Musical
Industries, Ltd.
Germany
50. Nippon Deaki Kabushiki Kaisha International Standard
Sumitomo Densen Kabushiki Kaisha
Éleetrie Co.
51. Nippon Denki Kabushiki Kalsha International Standard
USA
Eleetrie Co.
Helland
62. Nippon Denki Kabushiki Kaisha Nolybdemum Co.
USA
53. Nippon Denki Kabushik1 Kaisha Westom Eleetrieal
Instrument Corp.
54. Nippom Jinzohiryo Co.
Montecatini Co.
Italy
55. Nippon Cey. Ltd.
Montesatini Co.
56. Nippon Jinzohiryo Co.
Hontecatini Soeiete General
per L'Industria Mineraria ed
Agrieola
57. Nippon Keikinzoku Kabushik1
Koppers, Heinrish,
Germany
Kaisha
Gesellsehart
58. Nippon Mining Co.
Lurg1 Gesellschart Fuel Chemi
and Husttenswesen m.b.h.
59. Nippom Pitek-coke Kogye
Koppers Co.
Kabushiki Kaisha
60. Nippon Vistor Chikuonk1
Radio Corp.
USA
Kabushiki Kaisha
61. Nippon Vietor Chikuonk1 Kabushiki - Westinghouse Elestrie
Kaisha
International Co.
62. Sumitome Denk1 Kogyo
Algeminene Electridates
Germany
Gesellsehart
Kabushiki Kaisha

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
a1
65.
Sum1tame Denk1 Kogge
Interaatiee/standard
Kabuskiki Kaiska
Eleetrie Ge.
64.
Sumiteme Kikal Kogyo
Gyele Go.
Kabushiki Kaisha
65. Sumitome Kabushik1 Kaisha
Deuteshe Edelstaberwerke
Aktiengecellsehart, Krefeld,
Siemens & Halske, Siemens-
Sehuekertwerks Aktiengeselleshars
66. Sumitome Kinzoku Kogyo
Deutsehe Metallwerke
Kabushiki Kaisha
67. Sumitomo Shindo Kokan
Masehinenfabrik Meer
Switserland
Kabushiki Xaisha
Aktungesellsehars
Gladback, H. Singer, Frits
Sumitomo Elestrie Wire and
Furakawa Eleetrie Company,
Cable Works, Ltd.
Ltd.
69. Sumitomo Machinery Works,Ltd. North Amerieam Cyanamid,Ltd. Usa
70. Sank1 Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
Dour Go.
71. Takeda Ohemieal Industry Co.
Sosiety of Chemieal Industry
in Basle
Switserland
72. Tokyo Keik1 Selsaku-jo
Sperry Gyroseope Co., Ine.
USA
73. Tokyo Shibaura Engineering
Ajax Netal Company
Works Miteui Bussan,Kaisha
Ajax Eleetrothermie Corp
74. Tokyo Shibaura Denki
Ajax Eleetrothermie Corp.
Iabushiki Kaisha
75. Tokyo Shibaura Denki
International General
Kabushiki Kaisha
Electric Co.
76. Tokyo Shibaura Senk1
Radio Corp.
Kabushiki Kaisha
77. Tokyo Shibaura Denki
United Engineering &
Kabushiki Kaisha
Fohndry 00.
78. Tokyo Shibaura Denk1 Co. Ltd.
Warem Teleehrom Co.
79. Tokye Shibaura Denki
Westinghouse Elestrie
Kabushiki Kaisha
International Co.
80. Yanase Automobile Co. Ltd.
Cities Serviee Export O1l Go. •

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.93)
Correspondanoe a Adresser
a IUsne de BLANO-MISSERON(MOrd)
Servioe: DIREOTION
Reference: R0/r
SIBGE SOOIAL:
Date: 3/12/1935
S-10, Place Saint-Gery
VALENCIENNES
Blano-Misseron, le 3 décembre 1935
MonBieur K.MORITA
3 rue Daloud
PARIS
Monsieur,
Comme suite à nos pourparlers, nous, soaIrE
VERHERIES D LA CAR T A. BELOTTE REUNIES, CiaPré dénomme
Ste V PhIs, vous confirmons ce qui suit:
1º) Nous C6done par la presente è 1'ASAHI GLASS COUPANY
cimapres dénommée Sté  iI, la propriété, pour 1'exploi
tation exclusive, cour le JaFoN, ses colonies, territoires,
posses ions et protectorats, la CHIN, et le MANDOHUKUC, de
i'invention faisent l'oojet du brevet depose en Franoe au
nom de notre Sociate 1e 14/10/1935 sous 1e n° 391,181 pour
"FCUR A BASSI POUR LA FAHRIJATION SIMULTANEE DE DIPFERENTS
AnTIJLES EN V hll" svec aroit pour te ASAHI de déposer
dee demandes de brevets correspondentes dens les pays
susvises, c'este-dire JuCN, ses colonies, territoires,
possessions et protectorats, JhInE t ManDunUxuoen revendi-
quant la priorité accoriee r ler conventions Internetionles.
2°) sté Vn EI eignere, è preniere requisition de sté
ASAnI, toutes pieces dcstinées a pernettre a Ste AsAnI de
déposer des demandes de brevete daus les pays oonoédés, sot
à son nom, soit su nom de toutes personnes ou sooiétés
qu’elle indiquera.
3°) sté Vuh I renettre à  té Asail une copie certifies
confome au texte du urevet déposé en France, afin que
Sté ASahI puisse devoser en temps voulu, si elle le désire,
des brevets correspondants dans lee pays conoédés. Les
fraie entrainés par ces dénots de trevets et leur
obtention et leur maintien en vigueur Eeront supportes
por Sté ASAHI.
4e) sté VEtIs remettra en outre à sté AsAhI sans
suoun frais pour cette derniere trois exemplaires de
tous les deseins et plans de construction dp bassin

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
actuellement existant, etabli suivant le preeédé breveté
chaque serie de dessins et plans accompagnés d'une deserip
tion détaillée. Jes trois exemplaires de dessins, ess,
plans avec descriptions seront remis par Sté Venrekiss é
Ste ASAhI dans un délai de quatre semaines á partir d
jour de la signature de la presente entente.
5°) sté Vlls s'engage é communiquer gratuitement 
Sté Asil lee tours de mains et les perfectionnements ou
ameliorations qui pourraient etre ultérieurement apportes
au brevet dont il s'agit; de son côté, et réciproquement,
Sté VanRh Is les toure de mains et les perfectionnements
ou amélioratione qulelle pourrait apportsrulteriéurement
elle-mome é ce procédé.
60) s1 Sté VEllatI dépose un brevet pour une invention
se rapportant eu procéde faisant l'objet du brevet suevisé,
elle accordere & té AcAflI pour l'acquisition de l'inven-
tion et du droit au brevet aorresoondent é déposer au
JaPo, lee colonies, lerri toires, possessions et protecto
rats, la JHIn et le .Uki, un droit de préférence,
á des conditions no :upérieures a celles cu elle obtiend-
rait d'autres acquereurs eventuels, de même ei sté AsAhI
depose elle-meme un urevet pour une invention se rap-
portant au dit procécié,elle accordere à Sté VERHERIEs,
potr l'acquisition de i'invention et du droit aux brevets
correspondants s jénorer pour les autres pays que coux
qui viennent c'atre emumeres, un droit de préférence a
des conditione non supérieures à celles qu elle
obtiendreit d'autres rccuéreurs éventuels.
En ponséquence, chacune des deux sociétés ne pourra
traiter avec un tiers pour la cession du droit á une inven-
tion nouvelle et sux nouveaux orevets protégeant cette
invention, sans en evoir avise au orealeble l'autre
Bociété et lui avoir offert un dreit de préférence é
condition é alen pour le: territoires qui interessent
respeotive ent chaoune aes deux suciétés,c'est á dire le
JaPoN, Fee colonies, tcrritoirce, possessioms et
proteotorate,le Ju l , en ce qui concerne
Ste AsadI, tous ler cutrer ays en ce qui concerms Ste
VERILLliIAS.
7°) Chacune der ccux voslépés sure la liberté complete de
vente des produits fauricués d'aprés le procédé dont il
s'agit, mêze dans les peys ou l autre nociété sera propri
tairé de l'invention et es revets.
so) sté vs s enpere é conner  re tuitement a sté
Asahi toute aide toutes instructions et tous conseils au

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
cas ouv Sté AsAhI projetterait d'établir des installasiom
au moyen du même procédé mais sur une autre éahelle.
9•) Sté VERRERIEß autorise Sté ASAHI à envoyer un techmiem
faire un stage unique de 15 jours au maximum dans ses
usines et donnera lo possibilité à ce technicien de pre-
oéder á des travaux pratiques dane oette usine. e
technioien recevra pendant son sésour, la direotion, les
conseils et les instruotions dont il pourra avoir besoin.
Par la suite et pendent une durée de trois anmées,
sté VIs autorisera de simples visites de l usine
par des représentants de Sté ASAhI trois fois par an en
moyenne.
10°) La presenté cession d'invention et de droit au brevet
est faite sans auoune garantie de l'invention ou de la
validité du brevet. La présente entente est définitive
entre lee partice et la Sté SsaHI ne sera jamais admise
à exercer aucune revendication à l'ágerd de Sté VERRERIEs
même si des anteriorites etsient decouvertes a l'invention
présentement cedee. té ASliI ne pourra jamais demander
le remboursement partiel ou total cu prix qu'elle s'engage
à verser plue loin, té Auali devra d'autre part supporter
personnellement tous procés ou revendications de la part
de tiers se rapportant a l'oujet de l'invention gédée et
en aucun cas ne pourra appeler te VtRERIEs en garantie.
11°) La présente cereion est feite moyennant le prix de
1CO,Co frs (JNI: 1L FRAN0S) peyebles comme suit:
5 fre (sT l ) u mont de
la remise de la precents lettre ver te VERREIEs  sté
ASAHI.
Su. frs (i , Il Fno) contre remise
des plans at deseriotions vises su os ragraphe 4 de la
presente lettre.
Veuillex, ur le sonne régle nous confirmer votre
accord et at réer, onsieur,nos civilités empressees.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
3 Dé0embre 1935
Verreries de la Care et
A. BELOTTL Réunies
BLANO-MISSERON.NOrd.
Messieurs,
J'ai pien reou votre lettre du 3 Décembre 1935
ainsi oonque:
"Jomme suite é nos vourpariers, nous, Sopiete
VERRERIES UE LA GARL et A. SL ITL éunies, ci-apres dénomée
Sté VERRRIs, vous
confir ons ce qui euit:
"P) Nous cécone per la présente é 1 ABAHI GLASS
Joay ci-aorés dénommée té Asanl, la propriété, pour
l'exploitetion exclusive, pour le JArON, ses colonios.
territoires, possessions et protectorate, la OHINE et le
ANDOhUkuC. de l'invention faisant l'objet du breve t
déposé m France au nom de notre Sooiété le 14/10/1935
BOUS le NO. 391,17 DOUr "FOUE A BAS IN POUR LA FABRIJA
TION SIMULTANME DN OIFNTO ARTIOLLS EN VERRE" VE
droit pour té saI ie déposer des demandes de brevets
correspondantes dans les pays eusviscs, c'est-á-dire
JAron, ses colonien territoires, vonseesione et proteot-
oratsOhIN et   en revendiquant la priorité
accordée par les Jonventione Internationales."
"20) sté vsaIs eignera, á premieré réquist-
tion de sté AsalI toutes piéces destinees a permettre 
Ste AsAhI de dénoser des demandes de breve ts dans les
pays conoedes, soit á son nom, soit au nom de toutes
personnes ou sociétés ou'elle indiquera."
"30) sté V Elle remettra á sté AAHI une copie
certifiee conforme eu texte du brevet déposé en France.
em France, afin que té Ajail puisse deposer en temps
voulu, si elle le désire, des brevets correspondants
dans les pays concédés. Les frais cntralnes par ces dépôts
de brevets et leur obtention et leur maintien en vigueur
eeront supportée r té AsaiI."
"4) té vl remettra en outre à sté s

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
sans suoun frais pour cette derniére trpis exemplaimee
de tous les dessins et plans de construetion du bessán
chaque série de dessins et plans accompagnés d'une des-
cription détaillée. Des trois exemplaires de dessims,
pes plans aveo descriptions seront remis par Sté vekirIs
é Sté ASAHI dans un delai de quatre semaines à partis du
jour de la signature de la présente entente.
"5°) st'e VaR Ellls s'engage á communiquer gratuite-
ment à sté asanI les tours de mains et les perfeotionne-
ments ou améliorations qui pourraient @tre ultérieurement
apportés au brevet cont il s'agit; de son oôté, et réel-
proquement, Sté Aßahl s'engage á communiquer gratuitement
a Sté VtExIs les tours de mains et les perfectionnements
ou ameliorations qu elle pourrait apoorter ultérieurement
elle-même a ce procédé."
"6o) si sté v l dépose un breve pour une
invention se rapportant au orocede faisant l'objet du brevet
susvise, elle accordere d té Alll pour l'acquisition de
1'invention et du droit de brevet correspondant a déposer
au Jhron, ses colonies, terri toires, possessions et pro-
tectorats, la JaINs et le Albulukuo, un droit de préférence.
á des conditions non supérieures a celles qu'elle obtiend-
rait d'autres acquéreurs eventuels, de meme s i Sté AsAíI
depose elle-même un brevet pour une invention se rappor-
tant au dit procede, elle accordera a Sté VERERIEß, pour
l'acquisition dc 1'invention et du droit aux brevets
correspondants á deposer pour lee autres paye que ceux
qui viennent d'êtr énumérés, un droit de préférenoe á des
conditions non superieures à celles qu elle obtiendrait
d'autres acquérurs éventuels."
"En conséquence, eus cune des ceux Sociétés
pe pourre traiter aveo un ticrs vour le cession du droit
a une invention nouvelle et aux nouveaux brevets protégeant
cette invention, sans en avoir avisé au préalable l'autre
Société et lui avoir offert un droit de préférence a
conditions égales pour les territoires qui intéressent
respeotivement chacune des deux Societes, c'est-á-dire
le JAPoN, ses oolonies, territoires, possessions et pro-
tectorats, la ChlNE et le MANJoliUnUC, en ce qui conogrne
Sté AsaHI, tous les eutres pays en ce qui concerne sé
VERRERIES
"7°) Jhacune des deux sociétés aura la liberté
compléte ce vente des proçuite febriques d'aprés le
procédé dont il s'acit, meme dans les pays ou l'autre
- 2 -

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.95)
Société seta propriétaire de l'invention et des bsevots
"ge) Sté VERRERIES s'engage a domer gatuitem
seils au cas ou Ste ASÁhI projetterait d'etablir des im-
stallations au moyen du meme prooede, mmis sur une autse
eohelle."
"9°) Sté VERRERIES autorise Sté ABAHI a envoyez
un technicien faire un stage unique de 15 jours au mmzimam
dans sesusines et donnera la posmibilité à oe technielem
de procéder à des travaux pratiques dans cette usine. Ge
technicien recevra pendant son séjour la direotion les
conseils et les instruotions dont il pourra avoir besoin."
"Par la suite et pendant une durée de trois
années, Sté VERRRIs autorisera de, simples visites de
l'usine par des representants de Sté AsAHI trois fois
par an en moyenne."
"loº) La présente cession d'invention et de droit
au brevet est faite sans aucune garantie de l'invention
ou de la validité du breve La présente entente est défi-
nitive entre les parties et la Sté AsAiI ne sem jammis
admise a exercer augune revendication á l'égard de sté
VERREHIEB meme si des antériorités étaient découvertes
a l'invention presentement oédée. sté AsAnI ne pourra
jameis demander le remboursement partiel ou total du
prix qu'elle s'cnage a verser plus loin, Sté AsaíI dove
d'autre part supvorter personmellement tous procée ou
revendications de la part de tiers se rapportant é l'objet
de 1'invention cédée et en euoun ee ne pourra appeler
Eté VR It en gerantie."
"1l°) La présente cession est faite moyennant
le prix de l, France (CENT MILLE FRANOS) payables
comme suit:
"SC, fr (OINUANT ILL FRANOS) au moment
de,le remise de la presente lettre par Sté VERRERIEs á
Sté ASAHI."
"5O, frs (INUAN TE ILLE FRANOS) Contre
remise des plans et descriptions visés au paragraphe 4
de la présente lettre."
"Veuillex pour la bonne régle, nous confirmer
votre accord et agréer vonsieur, nos civilités empressées."
-3-

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.94)
Je suis bien d'accord sur les termee de
lettre. Toutefois, il y aure lieu de restifier le
de techniciens admis à faire wm stage unique de 1ã
dans votre usine. Il a toujours été questio en effe
entre nous, lors de nos pour parles, de deux o treis
technicie et non pas d'un seul. Je vous prie one de
bien vouloir m'adresser, songforme d'app endice au p-
ragraphe 9 de votre lettre precitee, votre accord éorit
sur oette rectifioation qui consistera a mentionnex "dems
ans cette attente, je vous prie d’ágreer
Meesieurs, mes salutations les plus distinguées.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
Jorrespondance a Adresser
a IUsine de BLANO-MISSERON (Mord)
BerVicel DIREOTION
SIBGE BOOIAL:
Reference: RG/
S-10, Place Saint-Gery
Date: 17/12/1935
VALENOIENNES
Blanc-Misseron, le 17 décembre 1935
.onsieur MORITA
 rue Javioud
PARIS.
16éme
Cher Monsieur,
Nous vous acousons réception de votre lettre
du 3 courant et sommes tout a fait d'accord pour porter
d 2 personnes le nombre de technioiens a faire un stage
unique dans nos Usinee.
Nous vous ferons parvenir procheinoment les
plans que noue devons vous fournir.
Vouillez croire, Jher Nonsieur,á nos sontimonts
les plue distingués.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.96)
④
Tokyo, Oet. 27, 1946
Fuji Denki Seizo K.K.
(Fuji Electric Mfg. Co., Ltd.)
No.6, 2-chome, Marunouchi,
Aojimachi-ku, Tokyo.
To the Minister of commerse and
Industry.
J. loshijima.
-xcellency.
In accordance with the note "21-Ren-55" (dated on Oot.
le, 1946) we beg to notify your excellency the following:
1. Contents of actual contracts cxisting on Dec. 7th 1941.
(a) Contract party and his nationality:
Siemens Schuckertwerke, A.. Berlin, Jernany.
Siemens i Halske a.., Serlin,
(B) Contents of contruct:
(a) Characteristics, secrets, methods as well as patents
past and future concerning the manufacfuring a the
undermentioned machines and apparatuses.
Electric machines, motors, generatora, controllers,
switch boards, instruments for electric equipments,
electric instruments, telephone apparatuses,
telegraphic instruments, signal apparatuses,
watermeters, medical instruments and other eleetrieal
instruments and apparatuses.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) In validity for twenty years from Jume, lst 1922,
but prolonged to the termination of war.
(c) During the validity of the contract free from royalty.
Even after disaolving the contract the patents may b
utilized against payment of royalty.
(d) The patents are registered in the name of Siemens and
belong to the possession of siemens Expenses for
registration and maintenance are to be borne by Fuji
Electric Wfg. Co., itd.
In case the dividena exceeds 10 a royalty of 1
of sales is to be paid to siemens.
(c) Registration No. registered acoording to ths above are as
per separate snects.
2. in case alterations have been made since then in the contract
atipulations, the stipuletions to be given :-
None,
3. in execution of the contract, royalties paid and royalties
to be paid since on 7th Dec., 1941.
(a) Royalties Faid.
date of payment
2
74,384.12
Feb. 25, '42.
1,080,963.59
May, 25, '43.
578,930.75
July, 20, '44.
171,552.59
NoV. 7, '44.
rotal ¥1,905,831.05
(b) Royalties to be paid
887,698.54

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
4. Methed of payment of royalties.
(A) The royalty to be paid to Siemens, Berlim.
up to July 20th, 1944 was applied to the paying meme
of Siemens for the increasing capital of our cemper
(B) The royalty to be paid to Siemens, Berlin on Mevember
7th, 1944, which had beej paid to Siemenan Sehuckert Bem
Kabushiki Kaisha. Tokyo, was paid back to our compe
as the paying amount of Siemens, Berlin.
(C) The amount not yet paid is remaining in the Aocount
payable.
FUy

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.86)
Resistrstion No. of patent
Puji Elestrie Mfg. Ge.,
34347
9245
33993
100780
84408
92811
97700
100980
84486
62812
98702
101224
85852
2032
8704
.01225
858
33737
7003
101226
8592
7070
101650
85870
3340
707
101651
85686
3241
57072
101652
86630
34
707
101653
88838
34
7074
101654
87217
2544
3775
101705
87427
45
7076
102155
87427
335.
7077
102156
87427
335
7.77
102156
97875
44
707
102157
38712
6.3
7:7
102158
98714
7
73
102159
33717
33715
7003
102161
38720
£376
75
102182
387
£357
7089
102183
382.4
8337
7:8
102535
32218
23973
7.7
102538
39210
£3575
7.71
102537
30+64
2770
7.7
102538
3467
773
7.74
10253€
387..
2430S
7.7
102983
358
430
7.7
102965
3023.
131
1029
30337
42
3
102967
9340
431
102988
S0530
147
3304
102969
90542
518
3363
102971
50542
1
3317
103399
3C548
33136
103400
80758
9017
3.2
103402
3833
103314
80830
334
103817
1032
8
87
103818
21512
61
103819
01517
8
103921
C1521
81
104234
C1685
847
104285
61666
3470
104598
6863
1€4599
668
346
104601
1663.
027
104802
141
36
1.07
104603
15
66.
12087
104805
42
66
105001
141
7
105003
44
6655
170
105338
440
309
176
105341
47
667
1.0707
105342
443
100708
105777
41
44
6888
100709
105778

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.85)
105776
107882
110476
107801
105782
108207
110477
110172
105783
108211
110478
112947
105735
108212
110786
1129
105736
163602
115707
110181
105788
1883
10763
112950
15789
11771
1 6257
1177
106258
111802
12
106259
1.6
12624
1 65
13.07
15
166
1 3968
111898
1668
1:633
111688
1666
1034
111800
166627
15326
112034
126623
197
119065
1086
78
113066
106615
112067
197026
12000
137627
11207.
107020
17
1:7898
11075
740
11
112070
74
110013
77
743
1.0414
113078
74.
11001
11842
74.3
110015
11424
1074
110017
112425
10750
110013
11245
1:7358
11:020
112427
10785
110081
112430

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.88)
1:809
113800
118630
117007
113901
115431
117830
1:3862
115432
117402
113383
15795
117436
1:3884
..5736
117437
1:3060
5707
117438
:13366
15788
:17443
..3565
37
17445
114:90
1 571
117440
114202
11072
117881
114203
110703
17583
214204
110727
117586
114205
.15783
117385
114206
11655
117886
114:07
118 56
117887
114238
1
.17888
114:10
1.7899
11414
.66.5
.18267
1:4251
1878
1827
11425
..87.5
118271
114600
375
118274
14803
17.76
18275
..4604
7.77
1.8293
1:4605
1.7078
.:5006
5.4595
117:30
1:9828
115004
117CB1
118629
5.6
119630
115007
118531
.15008

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
180080
188378
120379
181806
128407
120382
121800
118070
120383
121000
118972
120304
121060
118974
130385
121848
118975
120388
121551
118876
120387
121860
118977
12C388
122261
113978
120336
122262
119052
12039
122263
119053
120392
122204
119315
130325
122265
116317
12 384
122268
119318
120415
122269
119315
120816
122270
119320
120837
122271
7
119321
838
122272
119322
12034
2
122273
119324
121121
122290
115615
117
122715
110616
1212:8
122716
119618
121210
122717
119080
121211
122718
119621
121212
122719
116669
121214
122978
119764
121216
123069
12003€
121633
123081
120042
121890
123082
120044
121591
123089
120049
121592
123006

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
198806
128609
123580
125208
123590
12010
123591
125211
19100
183592
125212
189588
123594
125213
187050
123695
125565
127051
123596
125566
127912
123811
123812
125587
127915
123815
125568
128036
123819
125775
128037
123824
125776
12.87
123828
125777
130601
123850
125911
128402
123833
125912
128603
123840
126917
128635
124122
12681
1280g6
124237
126323
128637
124242
128324
12865s
124575
128325
128040
124576
128473
128041
126577
126476
120042
184578
126611
120843
124078
126612
120864
124880
126613
126645
124591
126614
128907
124582
126745
128808
124589
126979
180008
12204
126980
189140
100005

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
129287
131499
133899
129507
131510
133709
129835
131511
134011
125933
131518
134012
128934
2163
134013
120035
12078
134014
159096
183458
134076
129088
134C84
188382
145
134081
130382
1451
134082
130383
130408
134083
130393
139424
13484
130395
14
134378
17
5.
134377
1401
134418
12042
134561
1346
134563
13345
154586
130346
134587
130347
134858
130848
100007
13436
15845
1100
154861
151088
111
134930
101008
133118
135127
131101
103185
1551:8
131437
183138
135129
131488
133197
135130
1464
133468
135131
11466
133495
135132
11467
133898
135133
151468
135134
135135

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.89)
135136
137193
136515
135138
137194
138553
135197
137198
138776
135801
157196
18777
135802
177197
138778
135803
15720
138779
135784
17201
138850
17766
703
138851
135779
17
138854
13846
1
38855
136847
207
138856
178248
178857
138249
647
138858
138750
17348
138859
1:3257
13784
138860
1080
7803
19994
0:61
17654
138995
168.
7857
139203
1167
1177
139205
178-64
112178
135208
136687
31
139300
136688
139347
136686
1.
139348
13689
139349
16691
106
139379
178666
16
139380
6815
8007
139381
136318
11978
139391
13681€
139392
178819
18239
139592
138824
11823
179393
17018
138233
139394
137192
138248
139395
138514
139396

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.90)
139397
140846
141940
139393
140847
111941
19396
14 953
141949
139400
14854
142185
139401
1485
14138
138408
110856
142780
158800
140857
142261
146900
1:0858
482
139901
40855
1183
139602
1:36
142064
139907
88
42285
139678
1686
11266
130978
149967
1467
139980
1411
147268
140060
14:1
142 69
140070
14:4
14070
140C7
11
14272
140072
141425
142073
140.7
1414
1474
14C828
141507
142275
140134
14508
42276
140135
141509
142277
140148
14:511
14288
140147
14151
14-288
14143
141538
142290
14015
141587
142291
14C151
1415
142873
140152
1415.5
142874
140153
1415.6
142879
140380
1413.7
142880
140802
1
142881
14034
14131
140841

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.94)
142882
144807
148395
142953
144808
140746
143182
144810
146751
143218
144814
146782
143201
145192
146753
143
145193
146890
14
1524
146898
143567
1404
188899
143565
145
146900
14778€
4
146901
143854
145245
146902
143855
145.46
146905
143856
145247
147377
14959
145749
147875
143363
145246
147878
143384
145281
147877
143998
14538
147378
144177
1458
147879
14490
14594
147882
144S1
11838
147884
144292
14086
148474
14423
138
148478
144284
14584
143476
144295
140835
143795
144257
148038
148796
144298
1483C4
149797
14499
146314
148798
2443.0
146375
1A8799
144701
148376
148800
144304
146391
148868
144305
146393
148869

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.91)
148870
149946
150957
152578
148871
149847
150958
152768
148872
148849
151310
152323
148873
14984
151311
152825
148874
119950
151312
152826
149875
153
151356
152828
143876
145357
101287
152829
149877
14.303
.01353
152830
143878
14850
1016
152831
14:879
1.36
10176
152832
145890
15
7
101501
152833
148881
15.75
101137
153334
149882
10020
101103
152335
148883
15253
2.15
152836
143394
15254
15148
152837
143385
15235
151461
152338
143888
15.56
151772
152839
143387
157508
101773
152840
148901
15:88
151774
153411
143627
15:31
18.79
153412
143628
15:314
101776
153413
145104
13 315
151777
153414
149105
15 818
151773
153415
148108
15087
15177.
133416
146107
150874
1305
153673
14518
15.875
102717
153674
140021
150876
132214
153936
146338
150877
15315
153540
149385
150955
152216
154049
149595
150558
152317
154259
1524C8
154434

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.89)
18197
15622
158026
159781
154738
156293
158027
159782
154803
156294
158029
159783
154304
156435
158030
159807
154805
156797
158031
158019
155082
158788
158032
159920
155243
1867.
158033
159921
165244
100
158:34
159922
155245
1.72
15835
159923
159924
150246
1870
1536
155247
1574
108037
160234
10903
160430
155243
107
15524
1074
15861
160431
155250
157423
158615
180432
155415
10744
189616
168433
155650
1745
153817
160434
15368
15572
176
160435
155730
18747
15885
160436
155771
743
86
160862
155738
1008
160884
135733
13.392
160865
155734
1074
160866
155735
1077
1011
160867
155756
107731
10202
160888
155737
207708
160889
156286
77
13
180870
156287
200001
160801
156098
108
13708
160873
18889
188
150807
160873
156290
188034
159308
18C874
158261
158025
152780
180875

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.90)
180876.
182424
164583
185072
161353
162425
164364
165621
161355
162426
184365
165743
181453
182427
164386
185744
161454
162428
184387
185745
181455
163430
184768
185746
161458
162431
16456
183747
161457
18242
1348
165748
161458
1884
164371
165749
18148
16.84.
184372
185750
161461
16:54
1847
165751
18148
183543
174374
165752
161463
163545
164775
185753
161484
133546
164376
165754
161465
157347
164377
185755
162776
1804
164378
165756
182377
181540
184878
168420
1677.
183550
164301
186421
16240
1835
18505.
187051
162401
16554
1606
167645
140
182555
1881
167850
16403
1633.7
18508
167651
144
164354
16308
167652
5
16355
165064
16765
10 18
13400
165085
167854
1841
1847
165083
16765
15
164753
165087
167518
164255
185088
188341
14
1618.
185088
18834
184
1648
185070
168343
16462
165071
188344

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.87)
168345
188346
172497
17250
.7260
73
27.6.
17.61
17 617
27
70
17.030
1:84
Total

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.85)
Registration Ne. of utility model
Puji Electrie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
191828
212865
232801
246422
191829
214481
232610
243855
193285
214482
232612
248856
184363
214483
232613
248857
194388
215868
232614
248858
184389
218697
233721
248859
16437
17437
233727
248800
154374
017470
233724
248861
124375
74
C3 78
248878
194376
2174.
34744
248879
10578
217.48
174
250180
13527
17456
74
251193
195231
7407
3
251198
1.6382
21740.
554
251197
126333
21840
5541
81198
1.7662
218460
554
251599
17707
21953
75547
253070
17006
30
0045
253087
167229
554
3054
106332
18380
57101
100340
18
54225
1042
16887
3542c6
200427
27
254227
200428
7
C54228
-74
23429
398
747
373 5
254230
200.7
7.
376
334397
4686
77
254987
183
361
C17328
254995
518
9
54696
66
7
254867
C5963
44
28663
5871
4575
256640
5874
2 619
31
25664
205875
61
43
257411
25391
226111
48
257412
05863
6875
284
23741
717
7
7414
7171
272
4707
57415
 7841
2724
114
258442
207345
7225
68445
3784
7718
438
58446
7344
2937
238447
7846
18.
42406
59448
231
18
17
844
2313
01
158450
00326
39078
211554
18
14.7
260112
1535
+1
260155
11586
143
440
260126
211559
4
1641
260127
1160
1426
748420
260128
1861
51427
84
260120

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.82)
260437
275507
284186
295956
261170
275508
94748
295997
281171
275508
385186
295958
26117
275616
285436
295959
261173
275511
285437
295060
263336
75312
85445
297591
283391
7551
3544
397592
7501
9540C
397593
8
731
397584
6323
70.
0802
7595
858
7671
6853
7596
63..7
7877
18371
27597
657
297716
71
85
28 S4
345.
333.
84968
78
:04
0.0000
48
7858
300001
04
7575
105002
851
7
78
30000
C88225
79
4
301869
6826
7
40
1870
257365
73
J01871
37381
7.6
3 365
301872
367734
78
07
1673
287
301874
267767
31675
88567
301876
68565
75
301677
6507
70.8
31878
8357
77
34
302183
6937
17.80
302849
168575
60
:6
30285
263576
1 33
302851
69577
1
285
68579
133
1315
2953
6957
201 8
511
854
0353
313 7
61
2855
063581
2111
130
32356
6353
911
12955
12937
26686
381
417
11
36
04587
754
177
25111
71718
0172
80
35112
2717
2173
511
2714
17
45
3883
37174
17
37.8
271743
3178
404
721
7275
30774
405
72
372757
77
8
73
7754
77
74
307024
270755
33
40
1047
74
:.3
179
146
37431.
3330
5417
147
274-10
015
310048
716
3418
314
7353
31
0855
310050

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.85)
310256
321814
331934
330108
348888
312818
321715
331935
339110
348558
314150
322802
331936
340921
348800
314152
200803
371037
340922
348561
314153
384
3375
34623
345507
314165
94
:14
740624
345568
314170
34
01
325
349558
31415
6
6
46559
315050
7
49560
315051
746561
15741
73
46562
318070
78
316077
C33814
570
Total
316073
70381
30
31678
3922
38004
3168
395
2447
318.9
38:
74
34474
1643
328825
7
24741
1867:
396
37.6
34474
317177
85
3
4472
317175
76835
33
764
18184
10087
76
3:332:
330880
1
4765
3.9574
30861
04
48.
1863
348 58
471
19496
088
08
:7
5124:1
964
8.37
7
1740
1817
30
7
1776
6.1
347354
7153
1
343506
52171
3.950
23108
348557

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.89)
Registration No. of design
Fuji Klectrie Mfg. Co.,
7155
90481
2481

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
MENORANDUM OF AGREENKNT made this 14th day of June, 19s9.
BETWEEN:
ALUYLINIUI LABORATORIES LITTED.
a corporation organized and existing under the
"Companies Act" of the Dominion of Canada, and
having a legally established offioe in the City
of Montreal, Provinoe of Quebec, Canada, here-
inarter called the "Licensor", which expression
shall inolude its suooessors and assigns when
the content so requires and admits;
AND
TURUKAWA EIEOTRIC COMPANY. LUITED.
a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of the Japanese Empire, and having a legally
established ofrice in the City of Tokyo, Japan,
hereinafter called the "Lioensee", which
expression shall include its suocessors
WHEREAS the Lioensor has by assignment dated January 15th
1937, acquired all the right, title and interest of Aluminium
Limited in and to oartain letters patent of the Japanese Empire
and Manchukuo, hereinafter referred to as the "said patents",
and described in the list attached hereto whioh is made a part of
this agreement,
AND WHEREAS the Lioensee is desirous of entering into an
arrangement with the Licenser to make, use and vend to others the
inventions desoribed in the said patents,
NOW, THEREFORE, this memorandum of agreement witnesseth that
the parties hereto do hereby mutually convenant and agree as
follows:
(1) The Lioensor grants to the Licenses a non-exclusive license
to make, use, and vend to others the inventions desoribed and/or
claimed in the attached list or patents with power to grant sub-
licenses thereunder. The Licensor will grant a license to mke,
use, and vend the inventions under the said patents to no others
in Japan and Manchukuo except the Lioensee and Sumitomo Kleotrio
wire & Cable Works, Ltd. without the full kmowledge and consent in

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
writing of the Licensee.
(2) In consideration of this license the Licensee shall pay
the Licensor royalties in Japanese currency at the following rates:
- One percent (1%)
Patent No. 77,443 (Japan)
Patent No.
4,071 (Manchukuo)
- One percent (1%)
Utility Model No. 249,859 (Japan) - One quarter of one
per cent (1/4%)
Royalties as above shall be calculated on the net invoice value
(excluding transportation charges and sales commissions) of any
and all articles in the attached list sold by the Licensee during
the calender year 1939 and royalties at the same rates every year
thereafter during the life of any of the patents in the attached
list except that no royalty shall be payable on account of a patent
which has expired. The royalties payable on account of articles
invoiced during the calender year 1939 and each subsequent year
shall be paid on the 3lst day of January of the year following the
year in which the articles are invoiced.
(3) The Licensee agrees to issue no sub-licenses as provided
in clause (1) hereinabove without the written consent of the
Licensor.
(4) The Licensor agrees to pay or cause to be paid all renewal
fees for keeping the said patents in force.
(5) This license is personal to the Licensee and shall not
be assignable, except to the purchaser of substantially the entire
goodwill of the business of the Licensee or its successor in
business.
(6) This agreement shall be deemed to have been effective and
shall be effective as from the first day of January 1939.
(7) Unless otherwise terminated as provided in clause (8)
hereinbelow, this agreement shall continue in full force and effect
until the expiration of all patents which now appear on the list

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
attached hereto.
(8) It is mutually agreed that the Licensee may terminate
this agreement at any time by giving ninety days written notice to
the Licensor. It is mutually agreed that the Licensor may terminate
this agreement at any time by giving ninety days written notice to
the Licensee.
(9) The Licensor agrees to grant to the Licensee similar non-
exclusive licenses under other letters patent of the Japanese Empire
and Manchukuo, which the Licensor may latter acquire, and which patonts
cover some form of aluminium cable or accessories for use with aluminiu
cable, at a further royalty or royalties mutually agreeable to the
parties hereto.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties here have caused their corporation
names to be hereunto subscribed and their corporate seals to be hereto
affixed and attested respectively by officers duly authorized to do so.
Attest:
ALUMINIUM LABCRATORIES LIMITED
SECRETARY
BY VICE PRESIDENT.
FURUKAWA ELECTRIC COMPANY,LIMITED.
Attest:
BY

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF LETTERS PATENT OF THE JAPANESE EMPIRE
AND MANCHUKUO, OWNED BY THE LICENSOR
PATENT NO.
DATE OF PATENT
DATE OF EXPIRATION
SUBJECT
77,443
July 14, 1928
April 20, 1943
Fittings for
transmission cables
(Japan)
(Compression joint
and dead end)
4,071
Oct. 4, 1937
April 20, 1943
Fittings for
transmission cables.
(Manchukuo)
(Compression joint
and dead end).
Mar. 14, 1948
Smooth Body A.C.S.R.
Utility Model Mar. 14, 1938
249,859
(Japan)

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
The Long Distance Cable Agreement.
This Agreement is entered between The Furukawa ELectric Co.,
Ltd., Tokyo (hereafter called Furukawa) and Siemens & Malske.
Aktieugesellschaft, Berlin-Siemensstadt (hereafter called Siemems)
for the purpose of renewing and continuing the existing Agreemenss
concerning the Long distance cables.
Article 1. Scope.
(1) The term "Long distance cables" mentioned in this Agree-
ment comprises Land cables, which are used for communication
between two pointe and equipped with Pupin Coils or cable apparatus
as defined in (3) of this article or every praoticable combination
of such equipments.
The Long distance cables are classified into the following
three kinde:
(a) Paper-insulated land cables.
(b) Land cables which are not included in.(a) and are suited
for long distance communication having a frequency up to
100,000 cycles per second, and for which Polystirol or
other special insulating materials are used.
(c) Land cables which are not included in (a) and are
suitable for Long distance communication having a
frequency of 100,000 cycles per second or more; and for
which Polystirol or other special insulating materials
are used.
Submarine cables of all kinds are excluded.
(2) The term "Pupin Coils". of the present Agreement is that
which is inserted in long distance cables and ∞mprises the Pupin
Coils themselves including the Pupin Coil case or muff, in which the
Pupin Coils are mounted.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Pupin Coils for submarine cables are ezcluded.
(3) The term "Long distande cable apparatus" mentioned in the
present Agreement comprises the low frequency repeater equipments
or the carrier frequency terminal and repeater equipments for
telephony and telegraphy over Long distance cables.
Long distance cable apparatus for submarine cables are
excluded.
Article. 2. Territories.
(1) This Agreement covers the following territories:
(a) Furukawa's territories:
The Japanese Empire and Manchukuo.
(b) Siemens' territories:
All European countries, except the U.S.S.R. (soviet Russia)
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain.
(c) China.
(2) The Colonies, dominions, protectorates and mandatory
territories of Japan or of Germany are included in the respeotive
home country. The political demarcation of a territory shall be
defined according the political boundary actually in foroe there at
the time of signing this Agreement. In the event of any change in
the political demarcation of any of the territories during the
period of the validity of this Agreement being likely to affect the
mutual interests seriously, the parties to this Agreement shall,
according to the cirommstances, confor and change the territorial
definition stipulated in (1) of this article.
(3) In the event of any important change taking place in the
future in the political relation between the Japanese Empire and
Manchukuo, as it exists at the time of signing this Agreement,
Yanchukuo may be ezoluded from Furukawa's territories after
consulation. In such case, Manchukuo shall be subjected to the same

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
treatment as China.
Artiole 3. Rights of Proteotion.
(1) The term "rights of protection" as used in this Agree-
ment includes patents, patent applications and all other rights
protecting the inventions in respect to Long distance cables.
(2) During the period of the validity of this Agreement,
Siemens grants to Furukawa exclusive Licenses in Furukawa's
territories and non-exclusive Licenses in China, but only insofar e
Siemens is in a position to do so, on the respective righte of
protection for long distance cables, which Siemens nom bolde or
which they zay hold in future. By granting this license, Furukawa
is not entitled to offer or sell lng distance cables manufactured
under Siemens' rights of protection in any territories other then the
Furukawa territories and China. This restriction is also applicable
to those countries where Siemens have no corresponding rights of
protection.
The grant of exclusive licenses includes the right of
issuing sub-licensee to thirdparties under the provisions of this
Agreement and Furukawa is responsible for the fulfilment of all
provisions of this Agreement by the party or parties receiving such
sub-licenses.
(3) During the period of the validity of this Agreement,
Turukawa grants to Siemens exclusive Licenses in Siemens'
territories and non-exclusive licenses in China, but only insofar as
Furukawa is in a position to do so, on the respective righte of
protection for Long distance cables, which Furukawa now holds or.
which they may hold in future. By granting this License, Siemens
1s not entitled to offer or sell long distance cables manufactured
under Furukawa's rights of protection in any territories other tham
the Siemens territories and China. This restriction is also

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
applicable to, those territories where Furukame have me
corresponding rights of proteotion.
The grant of ezclusive licenses inoludes the right ef issus
sub-licenees to third parties under the provisions of this Agree-
ment, and siemens is responsible for the fulfilment of all
provisions of this Agreement by the party or parties receiving sush
sub-licenses.
(4) Licenses under rights of protection whioh are subjeet
to any royalties or restrictions from a third party or parties,
shall be granted only upon request and agreement in writing by the
party to be bound by such restrictions and to pay to the granting
party License fees at a rate not exceeding that which the latter
is obligated to pay to third parties by reason of the grant of
such License. In the third parties above mentioned are also
included the inventors who are employees of the licensor and who
have the right of receiving a remuneration for their inventione fres
the Licensor in mccordance with the Law.
In case one of the parties acquires a right of proteotion
from a third party for use in the territories of this Agreement,
it shall use its best endeavours to make acquire such right of
protection for the other party on equal terms and conditions.
(5) The parties spall exchange a list showing all rights of
protection coming under this Agreement within three months after
1ts being signed, unless such lists have already been ezchanged/
These Lists shall be revised every three months.
Each party is obligated to keep strictiy confidential any
and every invention for whioh a patent application is not yet made
or which is still under application and not yet announced and
enumerated in the liats.
(6) All applications for the rights of proteotiom shall,

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
5
in prinoiple, be made in the mame of the eriginating party.
The costs for filing and maintaining of righte of
protection shal! be paid by the originating party, ezeept tmat 
territories, in which exclusive licenses are granted, the party
having auch exclusive license shall pay the ∞ ste for filing d
maintaining of all rights of protection coming under this Agr
In case one or the parties hae no desire to apply for or t
maintain a right of protection originating from the other party in
territory where the first party receives exolusive licenses, the
other party has the right to apply for such right of proteotion
and/or to maintain it at its own expense. In such u case the first
party shall have no license on such right of protection and it shal
be alone at the disposal of the originating party, who at ite
discretion may grant such license to any third party.
(1) During the period of the validity of this Agreememt.
neither of the parties shall bring suit against any of the
rignts of protection coming under this Agreement, whioh are owmed
or controlled by the other party, except the cases where one
party has renounced to receive a license in aocordance with the
provisions of (6) of this article.
The parties shall assiat each other as much possible,
without compensation, in aoquiring, defending and contending the
rights of protection.
Article 4. ixperience.
During the period of the validity of this Agreement,
Semene will place at the disposal of Furukawa, but only insofar
as Siemens is in a position to do so, all their experienoes they
have or will have with regard to the manufacture of long-distance
cables. Furukawa shall keep such experiences secret and not
disclose them to any third parties and sub-licensees, only

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
applying them to the manufasture of long distance eables,
it manufactures, offers or sells in the Furukave territeriee 
China.
Artiole 5. Compensation.
(1) Turukawa shall pay to Siemens for the supply of the
experiences mentioned in article (4) above, Twenty-Five Thousand
Yen (3 25,000) per calendar year during the period of the
validity of this Agreement, i.e. Yen of the standard of weight
and fineness prevailing on the day on which this Agreement
becomes effeotive as stated in article (&) hereafter. Should the
gold value of such yen be changed by more than l0%, the said
payment shall be increased or decreased accordingly.
(2) Furukawa and its sub-licensees shall pay to Siemens a
royalty on every Long distance cable manufactured and sold by
using one or more of Siemens' rights of protection, at the
following rates on the net selling price of the respective long
distance oable:
One per oent (1%) on cables (a) Art. 1
(b)  
81z *  (6)"
(3) Siemens and its sub-licensees shall pay to Furukawa a
royalty on every long distance cable manufactured and sold by usis
one or more of furukawa's rights of protection, at the following
rates un the net selling price of the respective long distance
cable:
One per cent (1x) on cables (a) Art. 1
TWO
(0) 
(0) 

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
7
(4) The account of the royalties mentioned in (2) and (3)
of this article shall be made every half calendar year and a
statement be rendered to each other on February lst and August
1st for the previous half calendar yeer. The respective paymemte
shall be made direct between Furukawa and Eiemens on the dates
when such statement is due.
Article 6. Associsted Companies.
The aesociated companies of each of the parties are those
which ere controlled by it directly or lndirectly or those which
control themselves one of the parties directly or indireotly.
The Liets A and B attached to this Agreement contain the names of
the associated companies of the parties and, in case there is any
change in them, the parties wirl inform each other.
This Agreement is applicable in ite terms to the respeotive
associated compenies of the parties and each party is responsible
for the fulfilment of a!l provisions or this Agreerent by their
associated companies.
Article 7.Arbitration.
Any difference in opinion or dis ute which may arise in
reference to this Agreement during the period of its validity or
after its termination shall be eubmitted to arbitration and no
Legal steps shall be taken. The decision awarded by the
arbitration shall be final and binding on both parties. The
arbitration shall be carried out by an arbitrator and two jurymen.
The jurymen shall be appointed by the parties, one each, and they
shall appoint the arbitrator.
In case the party, who is requested by the other to appoint
a juryman, does not do so within two months, or both jurymen do
not agree on the appointment of the arbitrator within one month aft

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
the appointment of the second juryman; a: request fer the appoím
ment of the jurymen or the arbitrator shall be made to the Pres
of the International Chamber of Commerce.
The arbitration shall be conducted in Switserland and the ssat
law of zurich, Switserland, be applied.
Article 8. Duration.
This Agreement shall become effective on the day on which it
is finally signed and sealed by the second of the partiee and romat
in force for ten years from such a date.
Unlese rescinded within one year prior to the date of
termination, this Agreement shall automatically continue in foree
for another two years.
All business transactions and negotiations pending at the
time of the expiration of this Agreement shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provisions thereof.
The Supplementary Memorandum to this Agreement, which
stipulates business relations between the parties, forms an integral
part of this Agreement. The following agreements shall be null and
void simultaneously with the conclusion of this Agreement:
Long 1stance Cable Agreement in Japan dated January 24/1923
and May 18/1923
Long Distance Cable Agreement in China dated January 24/1923
and May 18/1923.
Tokyo, 9th August 1937
Berlin-Biemensstadt, 24 May 1937
The Furukawa Eleotric Co.,Ltd.
Siemens & Halske Aktiengesellscha
President.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
Supplesentary Memoramdum
to the Long Distance Cable Agreement between Furukawa
and siemens dated . .
Article l. Conmon Obligations.
Furukawa and Siemens co-operate with the objeot of supplying
to the utmost the equipment of Long distance cable plants in
all its branches in reference to the design and mamufacture
thercof (long distance cables, pupin coils and pparatus of long
distance cables).
Article2. Siemens' Obligations.
.(1) Siemens agrees not to manufacture, offer or sell,
directly or indirectly, Long distanoe cables in Furukawa's
territories.
(2) Siemens agrees to offer and sell preferentially Furukmwa's
I ong jistance cables in Chine. In case a buyer prefers Long
distance cables other than those manufactured by Furukawa.
Siemens may offer and sell its om manufacture or a third party's.
In such a case, Siemens will use their best endeavours to
assimilate the selling prices as much as possible to those whioh
Furukawa has offered for long distance cables in other cases in
China.
(3) In the event of Siemens being unable to sel1 in China the
Pupin Coils and long distance cable apparatus of ite own manu-
facture, Siemens agrees to quote and sell those which are mamu-
factured by Fusi Denki Seiso E.I. Tokyo or Fusi Tausinki Seiso
I.I., Tokyo, (both called hereafter simply Fusi).
Siemens shall supply to Furukawa the Pupin Coils and Long
distance caole apparatus for China at the usual prices for the
Chinese market, except the special cases provided for in Art.
3. Item 4.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
2
Article 3. Furukawe!e Obligations.
(1) Furukawa agrees not to manufacture, offer er sell,
direotly oriindirectly, Long distance eables in Biemens:
territories.
(2) Furukawa shall supply to Siemens the Long distance cablee
for Chine at the usual prices for the Chinese market.
(3) Fururawa agrees to give preference to Fusi's manufacture in
offering and selling pupin coils and long distance cable apparatus
in the Furukawa territories.
(4) In China, however, Furukawa agrees to offer and sell pupin
colls and Long distance oable apparatus of Siemens' manufacture
only, except the special cases where Furukawa ia partioularly
permitted or requested by Siemens to offer and sell pupin coile
and Long distance cable apparatus manufactured by Fusi.
Article 4. Compensation.
(1) When Siemens has sold in China and Long distance cables of
its owm manufacture or a third party's, in such a oase as
stipulated in Art. 2, Item (2), or this memorandum, Siemens Agrees
to pay to Furukawa a compensation of three per cent (3) of the met
selling price of such long distance cables.
(2) when Furukawa has sold in China pupin colls and Long
distance cable apparatus manufactured by Tusi, in such a case as
stipulated in Art. 3, Item (4) of this memordndum, Furukawa mgrees
to pay to Siemens a compensation of thres per cent (3%) of the
net selling price of such pupin coils and Long distance cable
apparatus.
For the Long distance cables supplied in accordance with Art.
3. Item (2) of this memorandum, the Siemens-China in Shanghai,
shall, as Furukawa's sales agent, receive direetly from Furukawa

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
3
one per cent (1%) of the net selling price of such leng distmee
oables.
(3) The compensation stipulated in Items (1) nd (2) ef this
article shall be paid together with the royalty payments stipulated
in Art. 5 of this Agreement.
Artiole 5. Polystirols.
In case Furukawa requires polystirols necessary for the manu-
facture of long distance cables mentioned in Art. 1, Item (1) (b)
and (c) of this Agreement, from outside the Japanese Empire, it
agrees to have them supplied by Siemens or a manufacturer desigmated
by Siemens, who shall make its best endeavours to enable Furukawa to
buy Polystirol on reasonable terms. Polystirole shall generally
be supplied in such state and type that they can be applied direotly
to the manufacture of long distance cables.
Siemens agrees to enable furukawa's sub-licensees to procure
Polystirols necessary for the manufacture of long distance cables in
the same manner as they are procured by Furukawa itself.
The supply of Polystirols which Furukawa receives from Siemene
or a manufacturer designated by Eiemens is made on the condition that
Long distance cables made thereof are manufactured, offered and sold
only in Furukawa's territories and China.
Tokyo, . . . . . . : . .Berlin-Siemensstadt. ..

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Memerandum Concerning the Amerdment of Artiele 5
of the Long Distence Cable Agreement.
Siemens and Furukawa agree to amend Article 5, (1), of the
Long Distance Cable Agreement, concluded between them wader date
of May 24th, 1937, and August 9th, 1937, the text of the said
Item from the eighth word of the fourth line to the end being
altered as follows, and, therefore, undertake to draw up the pre-
sent memorandum concerning the amendment and annex it to the afore-
said Agreement, thereby making it a part thereof:
Article 5. Compensation.
(1) Furukawa shall pay to Siemens for the supply of the
experiences mentioned in article (4) above, Twenty-Five Thousand
yen (8 25,000) per calender year during the period of the validity
of this agreement, and in paying this amount the yen-Pound Steiling
exchange rate of one shilling and two pence per one yen shail be
taken as the standard. Should the official rate of remittance by
Telegraphic Transfer on London Published by the Yokohama Specie
Bank on the day when Furukawa makes its payment show a difference
of more then ten peroent as compared with the said exchange rate of
one shilling and two pence per one yen, the amount to be paid shail
be increased or decreased according to the difference.
Tokyo,
1937.
Berlin-Siemensstadt,
Furukawa Electric Co.,Ltd.
Siemens & Halske, A.G.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
Liet (A) of "Asscoisted Cempamiee".
Siemens and Furukawa agree to magister the follosing
companies as Furukawa's associated companies in accordemee wish
provision of Article 6 "Associated companies" of the Long Dist
Cable Agreement concluded between them under date of May 24th,
1937, and August 9th, 1937:
Furukawa's Associated Companies:
1. Fusi Denki Seiso Kabushiki, Kaisha, Tokyo.
2. Fusi Teushinki Seizo Kabushiki Kaisha, Tokyo.
Remarks: The Dainiohi Densen Kabushiki Kaisha, Osaka,
is not included in the above (list), because i€
is not engaged in the manufaoture and sale of
cable, coil, apparatus etc., for Long distamse
communioation at present, but, in case it embarke
on the above-mentioned business in future, it
shall be additionally registered in the list.
Tokyo, 9th August, 1937.
Berlih-Siemensstadt, 24 May,1937.
The Furukawa Electrio Co.,Ltd.
Siemens & Halske, A.G.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Agreement about co-operation
between
Vereinigte Leichtmetall-Werke G.m.b.H. Hannover-Linden
and
The Furukawa Electric Co.,Ltd., Tokio.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
This AGREEMENT is made on the
between
Vereinigte Leichtmetall-Werke G.m.b.H.,
Hannover-Linden, Germany,
hereinafter called "VLW"
of the one part and
The Furukawa Electric Co.,Ltd., Tokio, Japan,
hereinafter called "Furukawa"
of the other part
in order to-co-operate with each other for improve-
ment and development of light metal semi-manufactures
by exchanging their patents and experiences.
General
Article 1
VLW shall grant Furukawa the right to use all
their present and future Japanese patents, and shall
undertake to place all their present and future
experience of fabrication at the disposal of Furukawa
so long as this Agreement is v-lid, to the extent
that Furukawa may be able to use in their works all
VLw manufacturing processes which are exploited by
VLW in their German factories, subject to the
following conditions:
1
Furukawa have the right to use the said VLW
Scope
processes not only for their present works, but also
for their works which are expected to be enlarged or
newly erected during the period of this Agreement.
Furukawa are furthermore entitled during the
duration of this Agreement to exploit the casting
processes to be submitted by VLw in those aluminum
manufacturing works which in future belong to the
concern of Furukawa if and when Furukawa possess the
majority therein. In exception thereto the Aluminum
manufacturing works of the Nippon Keikinsoku K.K.,
Tokio, now under construction shall be included unde
this paragraph al though Furukawa do not hold the

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
majority therein.
2)
Territory
Furukawa undertake to supply the semi-masufestusee
produced by using the said vLx experienses and patemts
for consumption only in Japan, Mandschukue and Caima.
as far as this latter is under Japanese rule, these
regions to be called hereinafter the "Territory".
Should Furukawa intend to deliver semi-mamufeetures
whioh are fabricated using VI.w's Japanese patents to
countries outside the Territory separate arrangements
are to be made beforehand with vLw in each case.
3)
Furukawa are entitled to participate in the use
Periode of
the Agree-
of the patent rights of vLw in Japan for the dura-
ment
tion of this Agreement. The royalties to be asked
for by VLw for the use of their processes and patents
during the continuance of the first period of this
Agreement are settled by the amounts as fized under
olause 10) of the present Artiole 1.
A prolongation of the first period is provided.
At the request of Turukawa, VL will decide, at the
latest six months before the expiration of the firet
period if a prolongation for a further additional
contractual year is possible. Further prolongations
for one year each are foreseen in the same manner
with six months' notice. The technical stipulations
for such a following second period are exactly 'the
same as in the first period. The amount whish is due
for such a second period is set forth'in clause lob)
in the present Article 1.
4)
Furukawa undertake to recognise and not to
Patent
oppose either directly or indirectly the VLw patents
rights
applied for in Japan as set forth in the enolosure
1) attached hereto. The same refers to the patents

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
for which applications are filed during thie Agao
ment. vuw will bear the costs for their patents in
Japan. In case of any difficulties in ebtaiming 
granting and in the maintenance of the patents,
especially such of formal nature, Furukewe umdertake
to sssist vlf free of charge.
5)
a) After this Agreement has come into foree, VLW
working
instructions
will submit to Furukawa in concise form instruetiems
for the produotion of light metal semi-manufestures
for general consumption and especially fer the
airoraft industries. These instructions shall sover
in detail, and shall conoern the most up to date
working instruotions for the following items:
1) the production of cast ingote and slabe fer the
rolling, extruding and forging fabrieation range.
2) the produotion of sheets and coils in all gauges
and dimensions.
3) the produotion of plated sheets and coils in all
gauges and dimensi ons.
4) the produotion of plated and unplated seotions
on extrusion presses and drawing benohes
respectively.
5) the production of tubes by extrusion preses and
drawing benches.
6) the production of round and seotional bare in all
dimensions.
7) the production of wire and rivets on speeial
machinery required for this purpose.
s) the produotion of small artioles by drop forging
in olosed dies.
9) the production of larger forgings in epem and
closed-up dies, especially orank cases, pistens

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
10) working up light metal seraps.
11) making of dies and other accessesies.
12) general instruotions for sand eastings and
other oastings.
b) In addition hereto Furukawa are entitled te
delegate three expert engineers to Sermany whe
will be instructed by vLw in one of their werke
in all branches of the production of light metal
semi-manufactures. vLw will aoquaint the expert
engineers with all vLw fabrication precesses whien
are used by them. The practical t raining of the
expert engineers shell not exceed 6 conseoutive
months in the first year of the Agreement. The
three engineers are to be trained at the same
time. Turukawa are entitled to send one engineer
for instruction to vLw in each contractual year
subsequent to the first one. The period of such
subsequent instruction is to be confined to three
conseoutive monthe in each contractual year.
o) should Furukawa request, so VLw undertake to
send after the Agreement has come into foroe one
expert engineer and one foreman to Japan with a
view to advising the engineers at the Furukawa
works. The engineer and the foreman will be at
the disposal of Furukawa in the first contractual
year for a period of six months and in the
following contractual years for a period of three
months in each year. The exact date on which the
German experts are to be at Furukawa's dispesal
is to be agreed upon at least three monthe in
advance.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
6)
The travelling expeases fer the experte wilz
Travelling
be for the account of Turukawe. The travelling
and living
expenses_
expenses during the voyage are te be paid in
English  Sterling. During the stay in Japan
504 of the expenees are to be paid in English
& Sterling, and 50x in Japanese ourreney. The
travelling expenses during the voyage and the
rates whioh vLw charge Furukawa for their ezperts
for the time of their absence from Germamy will be
in accordance with the stipulations of the VDMA
(Verein Deutecher Maschinenbau-Anstalten). These
expenses are to be prepaid by furukawe in each ease
for four weeks in advance. The mount for the
passage from Germany to Japan may be paid in
Reichsmark as far as vLw are able to book their
expenses in Reichsmark.
7)
The instructione of Lw will be given in sush
Quaranty
a way that semi-manufactures of light alleye cam
be produced in the Furukawa Fastories with the same
mechanical properties as presoribed by the Nome of
German Industry provided that the machinery
equipment and the working oarried out by the
Japansse workmen correspond to the requirements
stipulated in Germany.
Should these suppositions not be fulfilled
VLW will submit suggestions for the improvement
of the machinery equipment and the working
procedure. If Furukawa are for one reason or the
other not in a position to carry out such
suggestions especially with regard to the mechinery
equipment, VLw can not be held respensible by

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
Furukawa for inferior quality of the semi-memufeste
or insufficient working respeetively.
8)
The VLw experiences and rights given to Purukawa
Ezclusivity
are destined exolueively for the Furukawa works
detailed under clause 1 of the present Artiele 1.
Furukawa undertake to keep all instructione and mnu-
facturing processes submitted by vLw striotly seeret
from all third parties at home and abroad, and te use
these exclusively for the said fabrication in Japan.
Furukawa are in particular not entitled to pass on or
sell to any other quarters the experiences and details
of the proceeses submitted to them by VLw. Nevertheless.
Furukawa are entitled to enlarge to any desired
capacity the existing factories and those works which
will fall in future under this Agreement acoording to
the conditions under 1).
9)
VLW reserve for themselves the right to grant
Further
licences under their patents to other Firms in the
licences
Territory as well. VLw undertake to inform Furukawa
in advance of the etipulations of Japanese licence
agreements, if any, before the conolusion nd to allow
Furukawa to participate with a share of % of the net
proceeds received therefrom.
vLw bind themselves not to sell their fabrieation
experiences to any other interested third quartere in
Japan for the next ten years. But in oase of a
licence granted following the first clause of this
paragraph VLw shall have the right to give any
practical advices as far as they concern the proper
use of sach licepce and are necessary for the lieensee
to exploit his licence to best advantage.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
. 7 
10)
a) Funkawe will pay for the rigate to be
Remtneration
acquired under the first pesied of this Agreems
lst perted
AM 1.000.000.-- (one mill1on Re1ohemark)
payable in & Sterling. The conversion to be. based
upon the official mean exchange rate queted in
Berlin on the day before payment. The comverted
amount must not be less than & sterling 85.000.m.-
(eightyfive thousand). Furukawa undertake to
establish an irrevocable confirmed eredit at the
Reichsbank in Berlin for the total amount of .
1.000.000. -- at least & ster1ing 85.000.-.-
through the Yokohama Specie Bank.
This total amount is to be remitted as felloms:
a 1st instalment of 343 - MM. 340.000.--
on ratification of
this Agreement.
In case the first transfer eannet be
effeoted immediately with the satifieatien
Furukawa undertake to deposit at the due
date the first instalment at the Yokehame
Specie Bank in the exclusive favour of
vLw. However this tranefer, with 5%
interest included, has te be effeeted in
April 1940 at the latest.
a 2nd instalment of 33% - RM 330.000.--
one year after the
date of ratifieation,
a 3rd instalment of 33% = RM 330.000.--
two years after the
date of ratifieatien.
Furukawa shall be entitled to pay one third of
the respeotive inetalments in raw aluminum with
minimum 99.5% purity, delivered free Geman
place of consumption. settlement is to be based
upon the market price prevailing in Germany en

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
the day befere payment. vLw reserve the sighs te
decline the acceptance of payment in alumimum in
later years, as far as such payment sxceeds the
firet inetalment paid in aluminum; in other words,
if Furukawa paid in the first year only five per eemt
in aluminum VLw is not expected to accept mere them
5% in aluminum in the following years.
2nd period
b) Furukawa have to remit to the Reichsbank im Berlim
for each prolonged contractual year the counter-ralue
in  Sterling of Reichemark RM 200.000.-- equal
minimum  Sterling 17.000.-.- on the first day of eash
additional year, at the latest on the first of April.
Conversion and payment in raw material to be subjeet
to the conditions as in the preceding paragraph. By
these payments all stipuintions of the first peried
remain in force. Separate royalties will not be
charged for the VLw patents.
11)
a) Should both parties not consent to a 2nd peried
Conditions
for a 3rd
of this Agreement as set forth under 3, or should
period
this 2nd period be finished Furukawa shall nevertheloss
be entitled to exploit the VLw patents used by them as
termination of the first or second period as long as
such patents are valid. For such continued use of
VLW patents a separate agreement is to be drawn up by
both parties, wherein VLw undertake not to ask for
any higher royalties from Furukawa than VLw is them
asking from third quarters.
b) Should a licence agreement on this basis seem to
be impossible and unsuitable, Furukawa however are
entitled in any oase to acquire finally by payment of
maximum RM 1.000.000.-- (one million Re1chsmark) in
moderat, rates conversion and payment in è Sserling

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
or in mw aluminum respectively acserding to 10a)
- the right of expleitation for the them existing
patents under this Agreement up to their expiny.
If Furukawe make use of the possibilities
of a new licence agreement or a final payment VLW
are no longer obliged to put further experienees
at the disposal of Furukawa.
12
If the co-operation is terminated as set
Future patente
forth in l1), Turukawa still have the right
of firet preference of negotiating with Vw during
ten years after ratification as regards vis's new
patents which are expected to be aoquired after the
expiration of the first and/or secend periede of
this Agreement during the remaining time up to tem
years after ratifioation.
Furukawa
Article 2
patents
In case viw desire to utilise those
experiences, improvements, inventions and German
patente which Furukawa have already aoquired os
will acquire in the course of a duration of ten
years after the ratification (within the sphere
of production set forth in clause 5 of the Artiele
1) Furukawa shall offer to VLw the firet preferenee
of negotiation of the same. Terme and conditions
shall be stipulated by each separate case.
VLw undertake to recognise and not to eppose
either directly or indirectly the Furukawa patents
which have been already applied for or will be applied
for in future in Germany. Fururawa will bear the
costs or their patents in Germany. In ease of aay
difficulties in obtaining the granting and in the
maintenance of the patents, especially such of formal
nature, viw undertake to assist Furukawe free of

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
charge.
Ratificstion
Artiele 3
On signature of this Agreement beth parsies bind
themselves to its stipulations up to the 3let Massh,
1940. By this date the Agreement is to be ratified
by both parties by a separate document. with this
document the sanotioning of the respeotive autherities
and the granting of the irrewooable transfer permit fez
the total amount according to 10 of Artiole 1 shall be
confirmed. At the same time the necessary bank oredit
shall be established.
This Agreement finall comes into foroe after
ratification doouments have been exohanged and the
first instelment has been paid.
Duration
Article 4
The firet period of this Agreerent shall rum for
three years after ratification, at the latest until
the 31st Maroh. 1942.
The foreseen second respeotively third period of
this Agreement shall run until ten years after the
date of ratification.
Arbitration
Article 5
Failing other methods of agreement all differenees
of opinion arising out of this Agreement shall be
finally settled in accordance with the rules of adjuet-
ment and arbitration of the International Chamber of
Commeroe by one or more arbitrators appointed according
to the rules of the International Chamber of Commeree.
Official fees
Artiole 6
Each party shall pay the taxes and all other dues
for this Agreement as required in the respeetive countri
The Furukawa Electrio
Tereinigte Leichtmetall-Werke
Co..Ltd.
Gesellsehaft mit beschräskser Nartung

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
t∞ 2).
VIN Patent applications riled in Japan
1. No. 6355
Casting prooess for the production of ingots of
aluminm.
2. No. 6247
Alumimm alloy for the production of bearings.
3. No. -
Process for the production of non-oorroding
aluminum- and manganese wrought alloys.
4. No. 8466
Prooess for the produotion of non-oorroding high
strength compoundmaterials by plating with
alloys.
5. No. 8459
Process for the production of non-corroding high
strength coapound materials.
6. No. 6421
Process for the plating of metals and alloys.
7. No. 5694
Process for the casting of hollow billets and
tubes.
8. No. 5693
Process for the casting of metal billets.
9. No. 6529
Process for the inoreasing of endurance limit of
sheets and coils by plating with special mterials.
10. No.11779
Process for the production of non-oarroding
material.
11. No. 5068
Alumimum alloy for the produotion of bumbes for
bearings.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
CODIOIL mde on the 6. 1. 1941
to the Agreement of the 21. 8. 1980
concluded between
Vereinigte Leightmetall-Werke G.m.b.H.,
Hannover-Linden, Germany,
hereinafter called "VIJ
of the one part and
The Furukawa Electrio Co., Ltd.,
Tokyo, Japan,
hereinafter called "Turuiama"
of the other part.
For the final ratification of the Agreement the
following has been agreed upon.
Artiale 1.
2
Territory
Countries or part of them whioh during the duratl
of the Agreement are cr may be put under Japanese
supremacy shall be inoluded in the Territory.
3
Periods of the
Agreement
The following is added at the end of the first
paragraph:
Furukawa undertake to pay royalties for the last
one contractual year of the first period for the
patent-rights whioh may be applied for in Japen
by VIX after the ratirication as far as Purukame
exploit them. The amount of the royalties will
be fixed in acoordance with the stipulations of
clause lla.
Patent-rights
A list of the present Japanese patents and patent
applications of vIs is attached hereto.
-2-

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
the German application.
5
Working In-a)
struotions
The general instructions for sand casting and other ea-
stings as provided for under item 12 are deleted.
VIW undertake to show the Furukawe engineers the mohi-
nery equipment of the VIN laboratories and will acgumins
then with the mein problems then under researoh.
If the laboratoriss of Furukame intend to study the one
or the other problem, Furukawa are entitled to ask VIS
whether the same problem has been already dealt with by
VLW and with which result. In return VIJ can approach
Furukawa in the same way.
If required VLw will deliver designs of those mmchineries
and apparatuses construoted by themselves.
b)
The stipulations are altered in so far as in the first
year of the Agreement the three engineers will be in-
structed during 4 consecutive months only, and in return
for it in the second year two engineers during & conse-
cutive months. For the subsequent years the stipulations
remain the same as provided for in the agreement, i.e.
that Furukawa are entitled to send each year one engi-
neer for 3 consecutive months.
fall seriously ill for more than two weaks the time thus
missed from the practical training can be added by him
at the end of the contractual training period.
a)
Should in consequance of the present European war
the engineers of VIF or Furukame not be in a
position in one of the contractual years to carry
out the reciprocal visits in safety, the visits
can be made up for in the subsequent contractual
years.
10
Remmeration
lst Period
a) This paragraph is altered as follows:
Furukawa will pay for the rights to be acquired
under the first period of this Agreement
BX 1.000.000.-- (Be1chamark one milion)

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
at the conditions as stated hereafter:
a 1st instalment of 34 % =  340,000.
on the ratirleation of the
mediary of the Biemen
werke A.-G., Barlin, whe will
forward the amount to VIS.
a 2nd instalment of 33 % = RM 330,000.- in Free
one year after the date of the
ratification:
a Brd instalment of 33 % = RX 330,000.-- in Free
two years after the date of the
ratirication.
The conditions for this tranafer regulation are,
firstly, that the ooupetent Japanese Government
authorities oonfirm to the German Eabassy, Tokyo,
in writing that they have given their consent to
transfer at the due dates the 2nd and and instal-
ments in Free Reiohsmark and, secondly, that at
the same time the irrevocable confirmed letters
of crsiit covering the 2nd and Srd instalments are
opened at the Deutsche Bank, Berlin, free of charse
in favour of VLW.
2nd Per1od
b)
Furukawa have to remit to the Deutsche Bank, Berlin,
in favour of VL for each prolonged contractual
year RM 200,000.-- (Reichsmark twohndredthousand)
in Free Reichsmark on the first day of each add-
tional year i.e. the lst of January at the latest.
By these payments all stipulations of the first
period remain in foroe. Separate royalties will not
be charged for the VIW patents.
11
Conditions for
a 3rd Period
a)
The words "used by them at termination of the first
or second period" are deleted. The ssparate agree-
ment as provided for shall be signed at the latest
3 months befare the expiration of the first or
second period.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.95)
2
Artiolet.
Duration
This clause is altered as follows:
The rirst period of the Agreement expires five
years after the ratirication, at the latest on
the 31st of Deoember 1945.
The foreseen second period of this Agreement shall
rum not longer than to the 3lst or Deoember 1950.
Bay Aluminiu
In view of the fact that the first instalment will
be fully paid in cash the stipulations as provided
for in Artiole 1, 10a, 10b and 11b for the
payment in raw aluminium will not come into foroe.
五-Sterling
As far as the stipulations made in the Agreement
on basis of English L - Sterling are not yet
altered by this Codicil, Free Reiohsmark shall
be valid instead of English & - Sterling.
Patents
It is understood that wherever in the Agreement
and in this Codicil the word patent is used it
includes patent-applioations and registered
designs.
The Furukawa Electric
Vereinigte Leichtmstall-Werke
Co., Ltd.
Gesellschaft mit besohränkter Hartung

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
GADELIUS & CO.,LTD.
TOKYO OSAKA DAIREN
LIST OF FIRMS WITH WHOM WE HAVE
CONTRACTS FOR MANUFACTURING LICENSE.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
License Agreement between Aktiebolaget Kemyr, Karlsted,
Sweden, holders of the worlds-license for the Kamyr
bleaching & acid treatment system for pulp mills, o the
one part (hereafter called the "Licenser") and Gadelius
& Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Osaka & Dairen, Japan, on the othor
part (hereafter called the "Licensees").
1. The Licensers appoint the Licensees as their Sele
Representatives for Japan with Dependoneies as
well as for Manchukuo for the sale and introdue-
tion in the said territories of the Kamyr system
for pulp mills.
2. The Licensees have to pay the Licensers a lieense
of 1 Sw.Cr. per ton of the yearly capacity for eaeh
Kamyr system delivered or installed by them in the
above mentioned territories.
3. This agreement is to remain in force until the end
of 1943 with mutual right of termination after that
times with six months' notice.
Two copies of this contract have to-day been signed and
exahanged between the parties ooncerned.
STOCKHOIM, September 9th, 1958.
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
(Signed)
(Signed)

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
COMTRACT
called GADELIUS or the first part and Messrs. Aktiobolaget
Kamyr, Karlstad, below called KAmYR or the seeond part have
the following agreement been concluded.
Par. 1.
Kamyr transfers to Gadelius the Sole manufaeturi
rights on the Japanese market (Japan and its dependeneies and
Manchukuo) of all their constructions of Kamyr oirculation
pumps and transport pumps for mechanical or chemical pulp,
the following called pumps.
The agreement includes Kamyr's present designs and
construotions of pumps and those whioh Kamyr will have to dis
pose over during the validity of the oontract and all improve-
ments and alterations which may be made during the time this
agreement is in force.
Kamyr will not either directly or indireotly compete
with Gadelius with similar pumps on the mentioned market.
Par. 2.
Gadelius will in best possible and business-like way
try to introduce the pumps on the above mentioned market and
will not take any interest in pumps competing with those of.
Kamyr.
Gadelius will sell the pumps for their own account
and has the right to buy all details belonging to the pumps
from wnerever Gadelius want, also from Kamyr's.
Par. 3.
In order to facilitate Gadelius' work for selling
and manufaoture Kamyr will supply Gadelius at their requost
with the following drawings of eaoh standard size and type
of Kamyr pumps:
l set sepia negatives
1 " white copies
both with English text.
The copies will include complete detail drawings
with necessary instructions for the manufaeture of all Kamyr
newest standard types pumps made from common motal as well
as from acid proof steel or bronze or made rubberlined.
For further copies Gadelius will have to pay Kamyr's
selfcost.
Kamyr will place all their experience of pumps to the

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
dispesal or Gadelius and advise Gadelius regarding memmsins
a.s.o. er the pumps.
For the assistance of Kamyr's engineers and work
of drawing in excess of what is mentioned above, and whieh
may be specially requested by Gadelius they will have to pay
Kamyr their selfoost.
Gadelius bind themselves to treat Kamyr's drawings
and instruotions as business sorets and must not make them
known to their party exoepting what is necessary for the sale
and manufaeture of the maohines.
Gadelius bind themselves not to sell or manufaeture
pumps for other markets than mentioned in this agreement with-
out Kamyr's consent.
In case Gadelius should arrange with other works to
manufacture pumps or details of pumps Gadelius must in regard
to those works take suoh necessary precautions as before-
mentioned.
Par. 4.
As compensation for the mentioned right of use trans-
ferred to Gadelius, Gadelius will pay to Kamyr
a sum once for all of U.S. 95.0o0.-.
whioh was paid on March 18th 1940 and
a license fee of 10%
for every Kamyr pump or part of pump, whioh Gadelius
will sell on the above mentioned market and whioh is
not bought by Gadelius from Kamyr's works.
The license fee is to be paid in Swedish Crowns
based on the price list free factory packing exoluded, which
at the selling moment is used by Kamyr for export sales f
such pumps. Kamyr shall keep Gadelius posted about the prioes
valid.
Gadelius in Japen credit Kamyr half of the license
fee when an order is plaoed and the remainder when the pump
is delivered to the customer in Japan.
Settlement of license fees orddited shall be effedt-
ed on the 3oth June and 3lst Deoember and Gadelius in Japan
shall do their utmost in order to try to obtain from the Japa-
nese Government soonest possible threafterr remittanoe permit
for the sums due to Kamyr.
Par. 5.
This contract shall be in foroe up th and inoluding

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
Mareh 1sth l950 and is renewed one year at a
it skould not be annylled at 6 months' noties
When the contraet termimates Gedelims' migh
use Kamyr's construetions and experienee terminates
Gadelius has right to effect orders on mand against
ment of above mentioned license fee.
STOCKHOIM, March 15th, 1940.
KARLSTAD, Mareh 15th, 1060
P.P. A. B. KAMYR
GADELIUS & CO. AKTIEBOLAG
(Signed)
(Signed).

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
10
Trenslatiom
AGRERMOUNT
between Messrs. Allmanna Ingeniorsbyran
H.G.Torulf, Stookholm, and Messrs.
Gadelius & Co., Stoekholm and Tokyo & Kobe.
1.
Ingeniorsbyran engage Gadelius on the terms given in this cemtr
as sole representatives for Japan and China for exploitation of the
sintering system A.I.B. This system is patented in Japan under pat.
No.50880, and further 4 patents have been applied for relating to the
system, oharging device, ignitionapparatus and fan arrangement. Tmis
agreement covers also such future patents as well as any additional
new patent relating to the sintering systew of Ingeniorsbyran, during
the validity of this agreement. This agreement eovers also Ingeniors
byran's pot patented special construction for sintering.
2.
Gadelius undertake to work energetioally for the introduotion in
Japan and China of Ingeniorsbyran's sintering system through 1) propagam
pamphlots and engineoring calls at prospective plants 2) making
preliminary designs for sintering plants and 3) giving oustomers serviee
consultations and supervising starting up of sintering plants, and are
all expenses incurred hereby to be bone by Gadelius.
Ingeniorsbyran undertake to furnish Gadelius with 1) full partioulai
regarding the sintering system 2) Lay-out drawings in seale l:loo or
1:500 of sintering plants, 3) detailed drawings of sintering maohinery
viz. pans with pipe connections and valves, eharging devices, fans,
ignition apparatus and filting device. Ingeniors byran further under-
take to place expert at disposal, whenever necessary, aceording agreemem
from oase to case, for ∞nsultation and starting up of sintering plants
in Japan; and to make are sintering tests at their pilot plant in Swedem
at self cost.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.89)
3.
The lleense for utilization of Ingeniorsbyran's patents and
censtruetions, drawings in seale 1:l00 or 1:50 and design and
tation will be eharged as below:
Plant designed for
License ets.
100 tons sinter per 24 hours
¥20,000:-
200
n
n
¥33.000:-
3oo
n
n
3
n
¥45,000:-
400
n
n
¥55,000:-
500
n
99
¥65,000:-
of seid amcunts 25% is for Gadelius obbigations according
paragraph 2, and remaining 75% shall be paid to Ingeniorsbyran.
If a higher price than above is obtained the exoess to be equali
divided viz. Gadelius 50% and Ingeniorsbyran 50%.
4.
Ingeniorsbyran undertake to furnish complete building drawing
(for iron or conorete) for the sintering plants and buildings aceording
speeial agreement f rom case to case.
of the fee charged in suoh cases 50% shall be for account of
Gadelius and remaining 50% por Ingeniorsbyran.
5.
Gadelius take the responsibility that Ingeniorsbyran's eonfidential
drawings or copies thereof of machinery are not given out to third
parson without written approval from Ingeniorsbyran, and Gadelius
guarantee not to avail themselves of Ingeniorsbyran's sintering syst
or drawings and eonstruotions relating thereto after the expiration of
this agreement.
This agreement is valid for a period of 2 years and is prolonged

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
for 1 year at a time, provided written metice  saneellat
nst besm given by either party at least 6 menths befere
7.
Gadelius undertake to keep Ingeniorsbyran fully infemmed
regarding their work in regard to sintering a in Japam and Chima,
shall seonest possible report all contracts for sintering plamts
maehinery entered into by Gadelius.
Gadelius undertake further not to work for any other briquetti
mothod for or but the Ramen briqueting method.
8.
Ingeniorsbyran undertake to sell to Gadelius necessary sintesi
machinery. Gadelius shall, however, have the right to buy sintemis
maehinery from manufacturers outside Europe, and Ingeniorsbyran shs
in such eases furnish Gadolius with the detailed drawings aceording
paragraph 2, and Ingeniorsbyran shail be entitled to a commissiom of
5% of the manufaeturer's price, to be paid them by Gadelius.
Two copies of this agreement have been signed and exohanged
between the signatories.
Stookholm, April 15th 1926
(Sign.)
(Sign.)
As in Swedish
As in Swedish.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.92)
Particulars
Name of eompany
of comtracts.
Area Regulators, Sweden.
As per attached sepy of
Steam Regul
contract.
Desuperheates
Ekstrom
Maskinaffar, Sweden.
1”
Brobeek Ciroul
System.
nn
Svensson Chip
"
re
Jonssen Knot Sei
n
As per attached copy of Salle Regulators
letter
AZimanna Ingeniorsbyran,
As per attached copy of Sintering plant
Sweden.
contract.
AB. Industrimetoder,
Sweden.
10
Acid produoing
Artiebolaget Kamyr,
Sweden.
1"
Kamyr Bleaohing
system & Aoid
ment system.
19
Pulp Cireulation
Transport pumps.
A.B. Ljungstroms
Ljungstroms Air
Angturbin, Sweden.
19
88
Preheaters.
Northern Equipment Co.,
U.S.A.
Alkali-ohlorine
system.
A.B. Rosenblads Patenter,
Sweden.
9e
Spiral Heat Exehan
A.B. Superior, Sweden.
18
Soot Blowers.
A.B. Syrefast Murning,
Sweden.
1"
1"
Acid preof mortar.
Yarnall-Waring Co.,U.S.A.
Steam Traps.
A.B. Vaporaokumulator,
Sweden.
"
Ruths steam
accumulator.
GADELS  CO., LTD,
株式會社
rsarda
ガデリウス商會
MANAGING DIREOTOR

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
AGRkmNT between Aktiebolaget Ared Regulateres, Stee
Gadelius & Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Osaka & Dairen, Japan, of the s
part (Hereinafter called the "Licensees") in regard te the
faeture of the Aroa apparatus in Japan.
1) Conditions: Only such Aroa apparatus are to be manafaetusse
by the Licensees in Japan for whieh it is met
possible to obtain import permit.
2) Drawings:
Area agree to supply the Lieensees wish mamu-
facturing drawings of their different types of
apparatus, which drawings, however, remaim the
property of Area and are to be 'returned te them
when this agreement is eancelled.
3) Reports:
Eaeh order for Area apparatus obtaimed by the
Lieensees to be manufaetured in Japan is te be
reported immediately by mail to Area statins
full specifieation, buyer's name and royalty
amount.
4) Payment:
Royalty amounts for the Area apparatus are to
be paid by the Lieensees to Area in ascerdanee
with attached lists of August 25rd 1938.
Payment is to be made to Aroa as soom as paymeas
is received from the oustomer in Japam and shall
be net, free of any taxes payable in Japan ete.
5) Trade Mark:
The Licensees agree that before delivery to the
customer in Japan each Area unit shall be marked
with the name "Area".
6) Cancellation
of agreemant: This agreement ean be cancelled by either party
by three (3) monthe' previous notiee.
7) Two 'copies of this contract are signed and erehanged by the twe
parties ooncerned.
Stookholm, September sth, 19ss.
AKTIEBOLAGET ARCA REGULATORER
Signed.
GADELIUS & CO. AKTIEBOLAG
Signed.
R. Thune
Attached list of royalty amounts.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.90)
Reralty Ancuats fer Area Regulate
manuraoturedn Japen uaerAeease
Pressure Regulators
Type
Royalty
Type
ARS-W-8/25
Kr.
95.-
ARS-W-30/25
r.
38
38
n
50
110
50
00
65
120
11
65
e
80
130
80
e
n
100
140
"
100
n
125
00
160
125
3
150
180
150
n
175
205
19
175
200
235.
200
2
825
270.
n
225
250
310
n
250
19
405
300
420
10
300
580.
Type:
ARS-W-40
Royalty as for ARS-W-20
Plus 20%
Steam De-Superheaters
Type
Royalty
Type
Royalty
AOS
Kr.
100.-
AOB-1
290.-
AOB-2
Kr.
390.
AOH-B-1/80 mm
205.-
AOH-B-2/150
280
99
100
210.
n
175
290.
"
125
n
225
200
310
150
235
225
9"
350
99
175
19
250
19
250
345
1"
200
n
270
e
300
18
370
"
225
9"
285
350
9"
295
850
305
"
400
n
430
9"
300
1e
325
450
n
470.
"
350
n
350
500
550.
400
880
550
90
585
n
450
420
8"
600
655.-
500
465
550
90
520
n
600
99
585
The Royalty Amounts are given in Kmonor (Swedish Crowns.)
Stockholm, 23 Aug., 1938.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
Lieense Agreement between A/B. A. Ekstrems Maskimarf.
Stoekholm, Sweden, holders of the worlds-lieense fer the
Brobeek sireulation systems for digesters, on the ome part
(hereafter called the "Licenser") and Gadelius & Ce. Lt.,
Tokyo, Osaka & Dairen, Japan, on the other part (hereafter
ealled the "Licensees").
1. The Licensers appoint the Licensees as their Sole
Representatives for Japan with Dependeneies as well
as for Manchoukuo for she sale and introduetiem in
said territories of the Brobeck cireulatiom system
for digesters.
2. The Licensees have to pay the Lieenzers a license
of 25 on the Cif value of eaeh Brobeek syste
delivered or installed by them in the above men-
tioned territories.
3. This agreement is to remain in foroe until the end
of l943 with mutual right of termination after that
time with six months' notice.
Two copies of this contract have to-day been sigmed and
exchanged between the parties concerned.
STOCKHOIM, September 9th, l9s0.
AKTIEBOLAGET A. EKSTROMS MASKINAFFAR
signed:
GADELIUS & CO. LD.
Signed: R. Taume

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
Stookholm, Sweden, holders of the worlds-lieense fer the 
chip filling system for digesters, on the one part (Mereartss
called the "Licenser") and Gadelius & Co. Ltd., Tokye, Osakm 
Dairen, Japan, on the other part (hereinafter ealled the "Lieem
sees")
1. The Lieensers appoint the Lieensees as their Sole me-
presentatives for Japan with Dependeneies as well as
for Manchukuo for the sale and introduction in the said
territories of the Svensson ehip filling system fer
digesters.
2. The Licensees have to pay the Lisensers a license ef
£62.5 per l00 m3 of digesters net volume fer each
Svensson filling system delivered or installed by them
in the above mentioned territories.
3. This agreement is to remain in foree until the end 
1943 with mutual right of termination after that time
with six months notice.
Two copies of this contract have to-day been sigmed and
exehanged between the parties concerned.
STOCKHOLM, September 9th, 1938.
AKTIEBOLAGET A. EKSTROMS MASKINAFFA
Signed:
GADELIUS & CO. LTD.
Signed: R. Thune

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
By and between Gadelius & Ge. AB, Steekkelm,
referred to as "GAdkLIUs", and AB A. Ekstroms Maskinaffar,
and Mr. Nils W. Jonsson, Obbola, both hereinafter refesred ta
"EkSTRoMS" the following agreement is entered inte.
1). EKSTROMS hereby grants to GADKLIUS the exelusive
and lisense to make, use and sell in Japan cearse sereening maem
in Ekstroms sales program specified as the type Ps with seseem 
Letters Patent No.129547/38. This right to make, use and sell swa
sereeming maehines is only valid for Japan itself and for ne ethee
country. It is not valid for Manehukuo. As long as this eemtmmst
remains in foree GADELIUS agree to use its best efforts to sell me
sereening maehines ineluded in the agreement and not te make, use e
sell ang competing vibrating sereening maehines in Japan.
under the sum of Nineteen Hundred and Seventy Swedish Crowms (Sw. Gr.
l970:-) for each eoarse soreen made and sold herounder. This.royal
to be valid for the above specified type of sereening maehiner sold
EKSTRoMs; in the event that new maohine types of considerably high
production and/or selling value should be constructed and brought
the market by EkSTROMS; and manufactured by GADELIUS a eorrespendi
higher royalty would have to be paid. Ir the parties should not 
to an agreement about said royalty the matter is to be settled as pes
paragraph 7. For the right to make, use and sell the said soreening
maehines GADELIUS has further to pay to KSTRoS the sum of Swedish
Crowns Nineteen Thousand and Seven Hundred (Sw.Cr. 19,700:-). mis
sum to be payable in parts with Swedish Crowns Sixhundred and Fiftyss
& 66/100 (Sw.Cr.656:66) at the sale of eaoh soreen made and sold
hereunder until thirty soreens are sold.
3). The royalties provided in paragraph 2 shall be payablo
immediately at the sale of each screen in Swedish Crowns in bank in
Stookholm.
4). GADELIUS agrees that it will keep clear, full and aeeu-
rate records of sales of licensed apparatus, which records shall be
open to the inspection of any duly appointed representative of
EKSTROMS at all reasonable times, and will render to KkSTRoms on the
thirtieth days of January, April, July and October of eaoh year
during the life of this agreement, a sworn statement showing the
number of licensed machines sold by GADELIUS during the last period,
and the amount payable to EKSTROl for did period under the tom
of this agreement.
5) EKSTROMS shall put to the disposal of GADELIUS the
necessary construction drawings and instructions for the manufaetur-
ing of the soreens under this contraot.
6) This agreement shall be in force until the end of l944,
and both parties shall thereafter have the right to termimate the
agreement at the end of any calendar year by written notice mailed
within thirty (so) days from the end of such year. GAnELIUs agrees
not to make, use or sell within three (3) years after the terminatiem
of this contract vibrating soreening machines competing with those
included in this oontract.
7) All disputes arising in eonnoction with the presemt
contract shall be finally settled under the Swedish Law of Conoilia-
tion Arbitration of June 14th 1929.
This agreement is written in three copies and signed by
the parties:
AKTIEBOLAGET A. EKSTROMS MASKINAFFAR. GADELIUS & CO. AKTIEBOLAG
By
By

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
TOKYO
STL.No.1037
EL-1
U/KE
EKSTROMS -
Manufaeture of Sall regulators in Japam.
With reference to TSL.No.9607 we beg to confim that the
Makers are willing to aceept the following terms in regard to a
Japanese manufacture of the Sall regulators to be sold in Japan
and Manchoukuo /Makers letters of 8/7, 10/7 & 24/7/:
1/ For cach Sall regulator s old a license of Sw. Kroner 4oo:-
is to be paid /usual comm. included/, but the lioease will
be converted into Ten as per paragraph No.2.
2/ The lioense amounts due until further to be deposited in a
Japanese bank for Makers aceount in Yen half-yearly at the
rate of exchange valid when respective regulator is sold.
The license sums will be remitted to Makers as soon as Ga-
delius get a remittance permit.
3/ In January respectively July each year Gadelius shall sond
a list of deliveries made stating the names of the buyers
as well as a statement of accounts.
4/ Makers will supply Gadelius with all information roquired
for the manufacture.
5/ Makers undertake to examine Gadelius installation drawings,
if desired.
6/ Should Gadelius want makers to make installation drawings
and schames, Gadelius would have to pay •rtra for this work.
7/ The offer is valid until December 3lst 1945 and ean them
be terminated with 1 year's notice given by either party.
Kindly notice, that in STT.No.295/2 enelosed w have cal ou-
lated with a rate of exchange of l.- Yen •qual to l:- Sw.Gr.
Awaiting your further information with intrerest we are
G. & Co. AB., Stoekholm.
STT.No.295/2
T
0
8
Air mail copy for Osaka sont to Tokyo.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
B3
Lieense Agreement between A/B.Industrimetoder,
Stookholm, Sweden, helding ef the worlds-license fer the
Haglund acid producing system, on the one part /mereartes
ealled the "Lieenser"/ and Gadelius & Ce.Ltd., Tokyo, Osaka
& Dairen, Japan, on the other part /Hereinafter ealled the
"Licensees"/.
1. The Licensers appoint the Licensees as their Sole
Representatives for Japan with Dependenoies as well
as for Manchukuo for the sale and.introduotion in th
said territories of the Haglund system.
2. The Licensees have to pay the Licensers a lioense of
f l2.-/- per ton capacity per 24 hours of unbleaehed
pulp by the Mill using the Haglund syatm.
3. This agreement is to remain in force until the ond
of 1943 with mutual right of termination after that
time with six months notice.
Two copies of this contract have to-day been signed
and exohanged between thhe parties conoerned.
STOCKHOLM, September 9th, 19
AKTIEBOLAGET
INDUSTRIMETORDER
(Signod)
GADELIUS & CO. LTD
(Signed)

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
PA/AP
i0 eopies.
Agreement between rtiebela
26.1.1928.
Ljungstroms Angtafbin of
holm, owmers of the Lette
and applications fer Patents
merated in the annexed liss fe
the Air Preheaters "System Lju
rom", of the one part /hereimmr
ealled Ljungstroms/ and Messrs..
Gadelius & Co. Ltd. of Tokio, of
the other part /hereinafter eall
Gadelius/.
Par. 1.
License.
Ljungstroms hereby grant to Gadelius upon
the terms and conditions and with the limitations
inafter set forth for a period of 15 years from the
date of this contract the exclusive rights to manuf
ure and sell for use in Japan and territories the 
Preheater "Systen Ljungstrom" in accordanoe for the
inventions covered by the Patents and applications
Patents specified in listannexed and signed as rolat
hereto for stationary boilers but not for other purg
Par. 2.
Territory and
Gadelius agree not to manufacture, have manu-
License for
factured or sell Air Preheaters or parts of the same in
Parts.
aceordance with said inventions in any country or countri
other than Japan and territories without the writtem eem
of Ljungstroms. Gadelius further agree not to supply any
Ljungstrom Air Preheater or parts of the same without
having obtained evidence that these are intended solely f
use in Japan and territories, and that they will not supp
parts of the Air Preheaters except those to be used in Ai
Preheaters delivered and installed by them in Japan and
territories.
Sub-Licenses.
Par. 3.
Gadelius have the right to give a sub-license
or sub-licenses for the manufacture and sale of the Ljun
strom Air Preheater to other firm or firms on the conds
that tne Air Preheaters are for use only in Japan and
tories and on the condition that all stipulations in 
contract are valid for the sublicensees. No subliconsd mj
be sold for less than Swedish Crowns 65.0oo:- apleee wish
Ljungstroms consent.
If Gadelius receive cash payment for sold sub-
license or sub-licenses Ljungstroms shall be paid firstly
50.O00:- Swedish Crown of the amount obtained by Gadoliu
Of the amount exceeding 50.000:- Swedish Crowms Gadelius
shall have the right to retain lo0.000:- Swedish Crowms
The amount exoeeding 150.000:- Swedish Crowms, paid for
licenses sold by Gadelius, shall be divided in suoh a
that Ljungstroms receive two thirds and Gadelius one t
of this amount.
If a manufaoturing contract is concluded
giving Gadelius a eash sum, this contract ham to be con-
sidered as a sub-license. This, however, does not apply

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
a temperary agreement as to orders fer a 
facture for the use of this manufaetumer
the approval of Ljungstroms has to be obsaimed.
Above mentioned payments have te be made
immediately to Ljungstroms and as the amounts are
by Gadelius.
Technieal
Par. 4.
Assistance.
Ljungstroms agree to place at the disposal
of Gadelius during the continuance of this Agreement blw
prints of their principal drawings for the Preheater,
also blue prints of their drawings of tools and mashimes
which are necessary for the manufaeture of separate part
of the Air Preheater, and also to supply Gadelius, at
Ljungstrom offices, witn their principal teehineal data
experience, especially such as can be communieated by me
of copies of calculations, curves, reports and test ro-
sults in connection with construction, tests and opera-
tion of the air Preheater, Gadelius agree to mupply Ljum
stroms from time to time and free of oharge with similar
information, especially as regards teohnical data and er
rience, and also with drawings of alterations and improvo
ments tnat may be made by them, Gadelius further agree tod
supply, on demand and free of cnarge, one set of blue pri
of the working drawings of each prevailing type of Air Pme
heater they have manufactured, and of the dirferent instai
tion drawings tuat may have been made in comneetien with
manufacture tnereof.
Improvements.
Par. 5
The parties hereto mutually agree that should
either party develop useful improvements or methods for the
manufacture of tne Ljungstrom hir Preheater, suoh party
shall be bounu forthwith to inform the otner party of su
improvement whether it be patented or not, and Gadelius 
be entitled, during tne continuance of this agreement, to
make use in Japan and territories of such improvements free
of charge. Ljungstroms and any other person to whom hey
may communicate the right shall also be entitled to mploy
and use such improvements in Japan and territories for my
purpose other than for stationary boilers and in any of the
other countries of the world for any purpose whatever free
of charge.
Sale and Manu-
Par. 6.
facture.
Gadelius agree to do their utmost to intro-
duce the use of the Lungstrom Air Preheater, diligently amd
continuously to exert tneir best efforts to create a domana
therefore, and to increase and extend the sale and manuree-
ture of Air Preheaters "System Ljungstrom" and to manufad
ture of Air preheaters in accordance with Ljungstroms draw
instructions and method of manufacture and to arrange for
manufacture of the preneaters generally in the manner out
lined by Ljungstroms. Further, Gadelius agree not to selr
manufacture, or cause to be sold or manufacture, Air Pre-
heaters of any other system than Ljungstroms, during the e
tinuance of tnis greement or during a period of three year
after the termination of tnis Contract.
Gadelius agree to have in their employ an on-
gineer, approved by Ljungstroms, wao has to devote his time
exlusively to the exploitation of the Air Preheater.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
Should during the year l9zs or any
year during the peried the license remains im
sales of Air Preheaters not mount aleast se sù
dish Crowns, Ljungstroms shall have the righs to p
Air Preheater sales organization. However, the sel
of the engineer in question has to be mede in eomeers
Gadelius.
Access to
Works.
Par. 7.
Gadelius agree tnat during the continuation
of tuis agreement tney will be permit or arrange for I
stroms to visit the plant and works at whion Air Prame
may be manufactured for use in Japan and territories, at
reasonable times, and to see, examine and wateh the oper
ons and processes tuere carried on in conueotion with the
manufacture of Air Preneaters under this Agreement. Fur
Gadelius agree to assist Ljungstroms and other interested
persons, so as to enable them to examine the installed pi
Maintenanoe of
Par. 8.
Patents.
All costs for maintaining present and future
Letters Patent and for obtaining new Letters Patent relati
ly to the Ljungstrom Air Preheater and within the time thi
Contract is valid will be advanced by Ljungstroms and oha
to Gadelius account.
Infringoments.
Par. 9.
and Protections
of Patents.
Gadelius agree not to dispute the validity of
any Letters Patent nerein or any future Letters Patont relu
tive hereto. Gadelius also agree forthwith to communieate
to Ljungstroms every infringement of Letters Patent as well
as of any future Letters Patent and ingerference of any
nature with applications for Letters Patent that may eom
their knowledge. If it comes to Ljungstroms' knowledge t
any-body is infringing on existing Letters Patent or future
Letters Patent, Ljungstroms have the right, if they so
consider advisable, to start legal prooeedings and all
expenses relative to such legal proceedings are to be divi
equally between Gadelius and Ljungstroms. If Ljungstroms do
not consider it advisable to take legal aotion, Gadolius
the right to take such action but in such oage Gadelius 
to pay all expenses in connection with such legal aotiom.
Cash Payment
Par. 10.
and Royalty.
In consideration of tho rignts granted by
Ljungstroms under this Agreement, Gadelius agree to pay t
Ljungstroms a cash payment of:
Sw. Crowns 50.000 at the signing of this Agreement and
50.000 on the 3lst of December 1928.
Further Gadelius agree to pay to Ljungstroms
royalties on each Air Preheater installation "System Lung-
strom" manufactured by Gadelius or their sub-lieensees as
follows:
On Preheaters with integral fans
On Preheaters with separate fans
On Spare Parts for Preheaters

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
The royalty is to be caleulased om th
price of the complete Air Preheater ineluding d
gement of fans and rotor, provided suem driving
ments are made according to Ljungstroms' desigm
of electric motors, steam turbines or reciproeat
for driving fans or rotor, and freight, packing,
piping, duct work and such other misoellaneous eher
Royalties shall be paid in the same ourreney
as that in which payments are reoeived by Gadelius and
ments shall be made during the beginning of eaeh memth
payments received by Gadelius during the previous month
Royalties shall be paid to Ljungstroms in Stockholm 
any tax in Japan and territories.
Royalties shall also be paid for Air Prehea-
ters which though not actually sold are let out on tem
of hire or are made use of in any other way. The prioe
which royalties on such ir Preheaters are to be caloula
shall be based on list selling prioes of such Preheatere.
Should these Preheaters be afterwards sold at that prie
royalties paid thereon no further royalties shall be paid
If, on the other hand, the Air Preheaters in question sh
be sold at a nigher price, the royalties shall be paid 
the exoess amount. There shall, nowever, be no restitusi
of royalties that have once been paid.
Fixing of Prices.
Par. 11.
Prices of each Air Preheater installation
tendered are subject to approvai of Ljungstroms and should,
for the purpose of a correct estimate of the royalty to be
paid for same, be fixed independently of any work or deli-
veries made under the sane tender or contract, and indopen-
dent of such other work and deliveries according to correet
conditions of manufacture and delivery in each separate ease
prevailing at the time and place of such delivery. Should
the introduction of such separate price in the tender be
considered as inconvenient under the circumstanoes, the pri
of the Air Preheater plant shall be estimated to the atis-
faction of Ljungstroms.
Gadelius bind themselves not to make any prioe
convention with competing ir Prheater manufaotures or
sellers without Ljungstroms' approval.
Delay of Pay-
Par. 12.
ments.
Payments may not be delayed. Should there oeour
in spite of this stipulation a delay in the payment of sums
fallen due, and should this delay extend beyond one month.
Gadelius shall pay interest at the rate of 6 / six/ pereont
per annun from the date on which the payment in question wam
due plus any loss which Ljungstroms may sustain in oonsequer
of the delay in making the said payments arising from any
adverse fluctuation in the rate of exchange which may have
taken place in the interval.
Records.
Par. 13.
During the continuance of this Agreement, Gade-
lius shall keep true and must accounts of all Air Proheat

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
and parts of Air Preheaters whiek they have
under this license, and whioh they have delive
let out on hire, put to use or metified to the
ready. Those shall be entered in a parsieular
and other prinoiapl partioulars of each Air Prehe
factured, together with the name and address of the
ser, as well as the date on whioh the Air Preheaterw
lent or let out on hire and delivered from the works.
date on which the ir Preheater was placed at the dis
of the customer together with the dates of payments.
shall be sent to Ljungatroms monthly extraots of this
containing all the details necessary for cheoking the
that have fallen due the preceeding month for paymemt.
the request of Ljungstroms, extraots from above partiou
book shall be supplied duly verified by a Chartered Aoe
ant appointed by Ljungstrons.
Name Plate.
Par. 14.
Gadelius agfee that before shipment from the
manufacturing plant each Air Preheater will have affix
thereto in a conspicuous position an approved name ple
which shall be cast or engraved the number of the manu
ture of the ir Preheater together with the words "Sy
Ljungstron" as well as the name of Gadelius. In ordor
proteot the patents each Preheater shall be marked in
way as the patent laws of the country of destination 
fy or recomnend. No ir Preheater may be sold or par
with without being provided with such name plates.
Default of Pay-
mont and Breach
Par. 15.
of Contraot.
Should Gadelius auring the continuance of
this greement, in spite of reminder in writing, 
or other moneys payable by them under this Agreement, o
they should, in spite of reminder in writing, fail to fulr
the conditions of the greement within a respite peried
fixed by Ljungstroms, but whion respite period shall not
less than three calendar months, or should Gadelius to in
liquidation - unless such & step be taken for the purpose
of reconstruction or of amalganation with any other Co
which takes over the benefits and assumes'the liabiliti
arising under this Agreement - Ljungstroms shall be entitr
to annul this Agreement by notioe in writing to Gadelius,
and the Contract shall thereupon terminate accordingly, but
without prejudice to the rights or liabilities of either
party.
Reports.
Par. 16.
Gadelius bind themselves to send Ljungstroms
reports regarding the following items:
1. a) Monthly royulty statements acoording to Par. 13.
b) Preheaters started during the previous month and
copies of as well preliminary as final tests.
2. a) uarterly list of spare parts and replaeement cost.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
b) General experienee relativet
meehanical working of the preke
the effeet of preheated air
diffioulties whioh may be expriene
be reported on in detail.
Par. 17.
Termination
of License.
If, on the expiration of the priod of firt
years mentioned in Peragraph l. hereof, either party
wisn to bring tnis Agreement to an end on the expimm
the said period of fifteen years, they shall be enti
do so, but, in that event, they shall be bound to i
the otner party twelve months previous notice in wi
of their intention to terminate the same, and fallim
give such notice, this Agreement shall continue in
on the same terms and conditions for another year and
on from year to year, until twelve months written 
be given by the party wishing to terminate the Agre
to the other party hereto.
The termination of the License shall not
prevent Gadelius from delivery, subject to the terms
this Agreement, any Air Preheater or parts thereof ord
before, and not delivered at the expiration of the Li
Royalties shall also be paid for suoh Air Preheaters or
parts thereof.
Arbitration.
Par. 18.
Any dispute which may arise between Ljung-
stroms and Gadelius as to the interpretation of this A
ment, or in regard to the fulfilment thereof, or in re)
tion hereto in any way, shall be referred to Sveriges
niskt Industriella Skiijedomsinstitut for deeision and
dedision shall be final and binding on both parties wit
further recourse.
The cost of the arbitration has to be carried
by the parties in accordunce with the decision of the Cou
of rbitration.
In Witness whereof finally approved:
December 31st, 1927.
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
AKTIEBOLAGET LJUNGSTROM ANG.
(Signed)
(Signed)

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
5
AGREEMENT
A. Northern Equipment Co. Erie, Pa. owmers of the Copms
patents herewith grant Gadelius & Co. Ltd., Tokyo
the right to manufacture and sell in Japan regulator
•quipments in accordance with Northern Bquipment's
present and/or future design and construetion.
B. For the above right Gadelius shall pay Northern Equip-
ment a royalty of 5% and for specialized engineering
information and consultation a service charge of 7t%
of Gadelius' selling price.
C.
Whon Gadelius selling price includes transportation
outside Japan proper or cost for supervision of ereetion
the price subject to royalty shall be Gadelius selling
priee less the cost for such transportation or super-
vision.
D. The payment of said royalty shall be due 3 months
after corresponding equipment is ordered.
E。
The royalty and service charges shall be remitted tax
free in U.S. at the rate of exchange current, when
order for corresponding equipment is received.
F.
Northern Equipment shall as long as this agreement is
in force have one capable engineer placed at Gadelius
disposal to supervise the manufaoture.
G.
The salary for this engineer and traveling expenses for
him with fanily to and from Japan shall be solely for
Gadelius account.
H.
Northern quipment shall have the right to make invest-
ments in the shop Gadelius have under construotion for
making equipments of Northern quipment's design and
construction or to organize a joint company together
with Gadelius for the same purpose.
I.
Gadelius has the right to sell the equipments manufaotured
in Japan under this agreement in Japan and Manohukuo.
J.
This agreement shall continue in full force and effeot
as long as Gadelius manufactures and sells in Japan,
either directly or through others, equipments of
Northern quipment design and construction.
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
 Northern Equipment Co.
(Signed)
By
Tokyo, 28th February 1940.
Date Apr. 5, 1940.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
16
License Agreement between AB.Rosenblade Patenter,
Stockholm, Sweden, holders of the worlds-license for the
Rosenblad spiral heat exonanger, on the one part /hereafter
called the "Licenser"/ and Gadelius & Co. Ltd., Tokya Osak
& Dairen, Japan on the other part /hereafter called the
"Licensees"/.
1. The Licensers uppoint the Licensees as their Sole Re-
presentatives for Japan with Dependencies as well as
for Manchukuo for the sale and introduction in the  aid
territories or the Rosenblad spiral heat exohanger.
2. The Licensees have to pay the Licensers a license of.
50 Sw.Crs. per m2 heating surface for each Rosenblad
heat exchanger delivered or installed by them in the
above mentioned territories.
3. This agreement is to remain in force until the end of
1943 witn mutual rignt of termination after that time
with six months notice.
Two copies of this contract have to-day been signed
and exchanged between the parties concerned.
Stookholm, September 9th, 1938.
A.-B. ROSENBLADS PATENTER
2
(Signed)
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
(Signed)

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
①
Tresalatien
To
Gadelius & Col Aktiebolag
Stockholm.
Re: Manufacturing license for soot blower
SUPERIOR for Japen.
Referring to negotiations as above we thank yeu fem
letter yesterday with enolosed cheok for Sw.Cr.2.2ll:43
corresponding to 5% license on a sales amount of 39,l05:-.
According agreement we shall receive a manufaeturl
license of 5% of the selling prices in Japan, to be paid us
monthly through you. You have agreed to pay us said lieense
now and in future from your free currency funds before reeeipt
of corresponding remittances from Japan.
Aceording your information by telephone the presemt
volums of orders under manufacture for soot blowers in Japan
totals ¥207,000:-, and we therefore do hope that future lieense
fees to some degree shall compensate the loss we suffer from
present import restrictions in Japan on our equipments.
The manufacturer in Japan has undortaken to discontinu
the manufacture of soot blowers as soon as normal import
conditions have been restroed in Japan and neither direotly nor
indirectly compete with us in regard to these quipments in Jap
and dependencies.
We are expecting your confirmation of the agreement
as above, and remain,
Yours faithfully,
AKTIEBOLAGET SUPERIOR
T. Hoglund (Sined)

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
B
LICENSE AGREDMENT
of the one part (hereinafter called "Syrefast") and Gadelium
Co. A.B., Stockholm, Sweden, on behalr of Gadelius & Co., Lsm.,
Tokyo, Osaka and Dairen, Japan, of the other part (hereinaft
called "Gadelius") in regard to the manufacture of acid proof
mortar in Japan and Manchukuo.
Par. 1.
Syrefast herewith, against a cash payment by Gadolius
to Syrefast of Sw.Crs.10.0o0:-, grant Gadelius the right to manu-
facture and sell in Japan and Manchukuo acid proof mortat in
accordanee with Syrefast's composition and manufacturing methods.
Par. 2.
It is understood that Gudelius shall not manufacture or
sell other acid proor mortar than Syrefast's and if this agreement
between the parties will be cancelled it is understood that Gade-
lius will not manufaeture or sell aciu proof mortar of Japanese or
other make except Syrefast's during five years after the termina-
tion of this agreement.
Par. 3.
Only one or two of Gadelius' people in Stockholm rosp-
Japan should get knowledge of the composition of the mortar and
Gadelius is responsible for the damage that can ocour to Syrefast
if the composition of their mortur by the fault of Gadelius will
be known to other people.
Par. 4.
Gadelius should pay a license for acid proof mortar
manufactured and sold by then in Janan and manchukuo as follows:
10 ore per kg. for l-l00 tons a year
7
18
following 101-150 tons a year
5
1"
1
151 tons or more a year.
The yearly periods are to be counted from the date when
the first lot of acid proof mortar, manufactured in Japan, is sold
by Gadelius.
The cash sum of Sw.Crs.l0.Ooo:- paid Syrefast under this
agreement, is to be deducted from the license amounts to be paid
to Syrefast.
If the agreement terminates before the license amounts
have reached total Sw.Crs.lo.Ooo:- Gadelius shall have the right
to deduct the balance from orders on mortar placed by them with
Syrefast.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
Par. 5.
Every third or at least every sixth month Gadelims
should give syrefast an account showing the result of the
and remit to Syrefast their part.
Par. 6.
The remittance of the license amounts is subjeet to
remittance permit having been obtained from the Japanese Govor
ment and until such permits have been obtained the lioense
amounts are to remain deposited with a Japanese bank in Tokyo
in Yen to the account or Syrefast.
Par. 7.
This agreement is valid until the end of 1942 and oan
thereafter be terminated by either party within six months' no-
tice.
Par. 8.
All disputes arising in conneotion with the presont
agreement shall be finally settled by arbitrators chosen by
sveriges Tekniskt Industriella Skiljedomsinstitut.
Three copies or this agreement are signed and exchange
by the parties concerned, of which one is kept by Syrefast and
each by Gadelius' offices in Stockholm resp. in Tokyo.
STOCKHOLM, 18th of March 1941.
STOCKHOLM March 15th, 1941.
AKTIEROLAGET
GADELIUS & CO. AKTIEBOLAG
SYREFAST MURNING
(Signed)
(Signed)
The own signature of the firn of Mr.
certify:
The own signature a the firn of dr. Rob. Thune certify:

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
G
AN AGRkkkNT made this 25th day of Jume eme
Thousand Nine Hundred and Twentysix between AktrrmeLea
VAPORACKUMULATOR of Stoekholm (hereinafter called "Tme
Lieensor") of the one part and the firm GADkLIUs & Co.IFD.
Tokyo, or its successors (hereinafter ealled "The Lieenses
of the other part.
The parties have agreed and hereby agree as fell
FIRST.
The Licensor being the owner or the Patents and Patent app)
eations (herein ealled "The Patents") for Japan comeerming
Ruths' Steam and hot Water Aeoumulator, all specified in the
sehedule attached hereto, agrees to furnish the Licensee
with one set of drawings and to give the Lieensee the benefis
of all experiences and information asquired and possessed
by the Lieensors and further hereby give and grant to the
Licensee the full sole and exolusive right and lieense for
Japan with colonies and proteetorates to make and sell the
apparatus in assordanee with the Patents of the Lieensor.
SEOOND.
The agreement shall continue for the period of Firteem
years from the date hereof and shall be terminable on the
completion of the said Fifteen years or at any date
thereafter on six months notice in writing by either party
provided that the Licensee may complete any apparatus it
has contracted to deliver to eustomers in the reasonable
expectation of delivering the same during the terms of
this Agreement notwithstanding the termination of the
Agreement.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
一 8 .
TORD.
During the continuance of this Agreememt the
Lieensor on the one part and the Lieensee on the ethem
part shall at all times communieate te eeek other any
improvements on or additions to the said patents and in-
ventions which they may respeotively make or beeeme pes-
sessed of and they may each respectively use the mame bat
the manufacture or sale of suoh improvements or additiems
shall be the exolusive right of the Licensee withim
Japan and of the Licensor for the other world for himself
and his Licensees. Neither the Licensor nor the Licensee
shall make any additional payment for the use of such im-
provements or additions as aforesaid. Should the Licem-
sor purchase from third parties any patent. invention or
improvement on the patents and should the License desire
to use the same he shall be entitled to do so on paying
to the Licensor a reasonable share of the priee ealeula-
ted by the proportion of business in Japan sompared with
other Lieensees but having regard to the time at whieh
the transaetion takes place and when the patenfs expire
and this Agreement ends. The Licensee shall aequire a
proprietory interest in any such purehase of inventions
to the extent of its interest. The parties shall fort-
with notify each to the other improvements or additions
to the patents and inventions whion they may make and
the Lieensor shall notify any purehase from third paties
without delay. In the event of the Lieensee making im-
promements or additions notwithstanding that these are
to be available to the Licensor for all countries exeept
Japan during the term of this agreement, the Lieensee
may apply for patent rights in conneetion therewith but
in the event of the Agreement terminating the Licensor

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
shall have right to buy from the Licensee susk patext
rights with all privileges conneeted therewith on paymems
of the self cost price therefor. If the Lieensee refraims
from applying for patent rights in any partioular eoumtry
or countries in respect of any inventions by it sueh righss
shall pass to the Licensor free of charge.
FOURTH.
The Licensor warrants that the patents are his
own property free of inoumbranoes and that ne has no kmow-
lodge of any fact threatening the validity or novelty of
the patents and that he has granted to other Lieense for
Japan but he does not warrant validity or novelty. The
Lieensor shall do all acts necessary to keep the patents
in force and generally shall do all things neeessary to
protect the same and to have patented so far as valuable
any relative inventions. Supervision of payment of taxes
shall be assumed by Patent agents, I. Kusaba and A.F.
Cahusac or other Patent agents approved by the parties.
The Lioensee shall pay all amounts necessary to mmintain
said patents and pending and new applioations, whioh pay-
ment may arise after the 12th of May 1926.
The Licensor shall not be under obligation to
take legal or other proseedings to protest the patents
but the Licensee may take all legal proceedings he sees
fit to proteot the patents either in name of the Lieensor
(the latter getting a reasonable indemnity for costs) or
in his own name but shall not be under obligation to do so.
FIFTH.
The parties agree to use all reasonable endeavours to
secure that their Managers and Employees will treat all
information in regard to the patents as ∞nfidential and

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
shall mot disclose the same to any party or parties
whomsoever and they further agree to the other to refmaim
from interfering or hindering, direetly or indireetly, the
other party from using to the best advantage the patents
and inventions, the subjeot of the Agreement, and all
information relative thereto. The Licensor shall supply
to the Licensee free of charge all reasonable informatiom
in conneetion with the patents and inventions and all
teehnieal and standard working drawings and prints in
regard thereto and shall give such reasonable assistamee,
erplanation and information when asked for as he may be
able to do but he does not guarantee the accuraey or take
responsibility for the information supplied.
SIXTH.
The Lieensee shall have the right to grant sublieensee to
other firms under the present license agreement, except in
regard to royalties which shall not be less than 7%, and
oash payment, but the Licensee shall have to pay to the
Licensors half the casn and half the royalty above the seven
per cont mentioned in clause eight.
The Licensee shall not have the right to transfer
this Agreement to any third person without written permission
of the Licensor.
SEVENTH.
In consideration to the promises and to the obligations
undertaken by the Lioensor the Licensee is to pay the
Licensor or its assigns.
a) 100,000:- One hundred thousand Swedish Crowns
on signing this agreement.
b) 100,000:- One hundred thousand Swedish Crowns
before the 5th of January 1927.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
The Lieensee or their assignees shall pay to the
a reyalty of seven per cent on the selling prise
mamufactured under the patents or inventions, the subjees
of this Agreement, and sold within the territory of this
Agreement. The royalty shall be caloulated on the selling
price of the apparatus including supports, insulation,
easing steam and water mountings, regulators, govermors
for turbines and engines and fittings and spare parts
ereoted at site.
The royalty shall not be paid upon the priee of
foundation, buildings, pipings, ordinary steam boilers,
steam engines and steam turbines, eleotrical genorators
and switches, nor on transport, packing, expert or import
duties or taxes.
In the event of existing plant being made use of
the royalties shall be the same as for a new plant of the
same capacity. The royalty to be paid as and when correspem-
ding payments are received from the customers. The Licensee
grarantees that the total royalties for the three first
years amount to a sum not less than 75,0o0:- Sw. Crowns.
NINTH.
The Licensee shall without delay after each 30th June and
3lst December render to the Licensor a statoment of accounts
for payments which have become due during the previous half
year and shall pay the net amounts thereof to the Licensor.
The Licensee shall keep accurate records of the transactions
with name and address of the Customer and size of apparatus
and such records shall be accessible to the Licensor or
their duly aceredited representatives at all reasonable
times. The Licensee shall also, if required by the Lieenser.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
at every 30th June and 3lst December send to he Lem
complete copies of the record for the preseding half yeam.
TENTH.
The Lieensee shall number the individual installatiems and
fix a name plate in a suitable position showing the mumbes
and insoription "Rúths Patent Steam Aecumulator", the
number to be obtained from the Licensors.
ELEVENTH.
This Agreement shall be interpreted in aceordanee with the
Law of Sweden, and if any dispute, question or differenee
should arise between the parties or any party claiming
under the Agreement concerning the same or the construction
thereof or any matter in any way connected threwith or the
working out thereof or the rights, duties and liabilities
of parties thereunder inoluding claims or damages then and
every such case the matter in difference shall be referred
to a Board of three Arbitrators of which one shall be chosem
by both Arbitrators. The Board shall meet in Sweden.
TWELFTH.
The Licensee hereby appoints GADELIUS & CO., of Stoekholm or
its suecessors as its attorney and representative to do all
acts and things necessary or required to be done by the
Licensee in Sweden in connection with the performance of this
Agreement.
Signed and delivered to the parties hereto this
25th day of June one Thousand One Hundred and Twentysix .
all in presence of the witnesses hereto with the parties
subscribing:
For and on behalf of
GADELIUS & CO. LTD., of Tokyo.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
e0
AGRERMSNT
1. The Yarnall-Waring Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, herowit
grant Gadelius & Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan, the exolusive right to
facture and/or sell in Japan and dependencies Yarway steam plam
quipment, in accordunce with Yarnall-Waring Company's present
or future design and construotion.
2. For the manufaoturing rignts, Gadelius shall pay Yarnall-Waring
royalty of Ten Percent (lo,) or Gadelius selling prices f.o.r. at
their workshops in Japan.
3. The payment of said royalty slhall be due when corresponding equip-
ment is delivered, and Gudelius shall upply for remittance permit
from the Japanese government on the date of delivery, and guaranteo
the exohange rate between the United States Dollar and Japanese Yon
of that date until three months after due date for payment.
4. Gadelius guarantee to work to the best of their ability to proour
remittance permits. as uickly as possible. Should, however, a
permit not be obtained before tne due date for payment, the royalty
amount shall be deposited ror Yarnall-Waring's ac :ount in Yen in
Tokyo, Japan, for remittunce wien poasible.
5. In case the rate of excnange between the Ten and the United States
Dollar should change before accuaulated royalties in Japan have boen
converted into United States Dollars and remitted, and later than
three months after due date of remittance, the firat Ten Perment
(10%) of loss, if any, in exohange shall be borne by Gadelius & Co.
Ltd., and any further losses by Yurnall-Waring Company.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
Pago g.
6. Gadelius shall have the right to adjust their selling
suit the Japanese market, and to give diseeunts on theßr
priees when they consider this advisable for promoting sales
7. Yarnall-Waring agree under this agreement to furnish Gadelsm
detailed shop prints and working instruotions for the manufa
of their equipment. All resonable expenses inourred by Tar
Waring in this respect are to be paid by Gadelius.
8. If certain parts of, or material for, Yarway equipment could
be manufactured or procured in Japan, Yarnall-Waring agree to
sell such parts or material to Gadelius at approximatel cost
plus Ten Percent (l0%).
9.
Gadelius shall use their best efiorts to promote the sale of
Yarway equipment anu manufacture with good workmanship and mat
rials exactly in accordance with tne detailed shop prints furm
by Yarnall-Wqring. The equipment is to be sold under the tradd
mark of "Yarway", which trude-murk shall always remain the pro-
perty of Yarnall-Waring Co. Gadelius & Co. Ltd. shall assist
in having the trade-mura registered in Japan.
10. Gadelius shall nunber each piece of equipment made under any
patent coming under ti: license ugreement consecutively, begin-
ning with number 6,50l, said nuabers together with trade-mark
"Yarway" to be lsgibly placed on a plate suitably attached.
11. Gadelius shall keep a full and separate account of all sales,
whion acoount shall be open to the inspection of Yarnall Waring
or their duly accredited agent at all times. A monthly report
shall be rendered to Yarnall-varing showing the name and addros
of the user and the serial nuaber and kind of every pieee of
equipment sold under tnis license.
12。
Gadelius will send to Yarnali-Jaring a full statement on or
the fifteenth day of each month of all equioment despatohed fi

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 3.
works during the preceding month, giving the serial mumber and
kind of eaeh piece of equipment despatehed, together with the
name and full address of the user, and the selling priee to
the user.
15.
The license herein granted shall not be transferable, and is to
run for a minimum period of three (3) years from the date of
signature and thereafter until notice is given by either party,
ix (6) months in advance.
14.
Gadelius agree at all tines to use their best efforts to maintain
the trade-mark of "Yarway" in Japan, with the exoeption of bring-
ing actions in court.
15.
The license herein granted and all rights under it shall become
forfeited and voiu on a default of Gadelius as to the statements,
payments, or other conditions of the license, provided notice is
given by the Yarnall-varing Company to Gadelius in writing of
such default, and such defuult shall continue for a period of
sixty (6o) days ufter such notice, but the ternination of the
license shall not relieve Gadelius from the obligation to pay any
royalties and service charges then accrued.
IN TSTIMONY uREOF, the parties hereto have set their
respective hands and seals on the dates sèt opposite their res-
pective signatures below:
Date:
GADELIUS  CO., LTD.
Date: YARNALL WARING COIAPANY
by
by
President
President
Attest:
Attest:
(Seal)
(Seal)
Secretary
Secretary

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
SUPPLEORTTAL MOEDRAMDUM
parties upen the same date as the Agreement between them of evemd
herewith, and relating to the use of the trade-mark "Yarway" and to
the marketing of Yarway produets in Japan, WITNKSSETH:
1. That all of the terms hereof are hereby made a part
of the Agreement in all respects as if contained therein in detail,
2. That all material manufaetured under the lieense shell
bear the proper reference to United States and Japanese patents and
shall not be exported to the United States of Ameriea or to other
countries, to whion United States patent protestion ertends. The
license shall be striotly limited to the territory under eontrol of
the Japanese Government including Manohukuo and that part of Chine
which may be under Japanese jurisdiction and control.
3. That in case the Gadelius & Co., Ltd., Lieense, is un-
able at any time to arrange for the permit for remittanee of funds f
Japan to the United States, referred to in paragraph 4 of the
Agreement, witmin a period of three months after any payment becomes
due under the terms of the Agreement then Gadelius & Co., Ltd., shall
arrange to pay the Yarnall-Waring Company the amounts due in Umited
States dollars from other funds of Gadelius & Co., Ltd., in the
United States or elsewhere, which are not under restriotion - it being
understood and agreed that Yarnall-Waring Company shall not be subjoet
to delay in payment beyond the said period, by reason of failure or
impossibility of obtsining remittanoe permits or otherwise. Upon
receipt of suoh payments in funds, other than those held in Japen,
Yarnall-Waring Company shall release to Gadelius & Co., Ltd., the

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 2.
funds held in Japan to the ertent of the payments made f
 Co., Ltd.'s other funds.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set thes
respeetive hands and seals on the dates set opposite their resp
ive signatures below:
Date:
YARNALL-WARINGA
Date:
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
By
By
Presidont
President
Attest:
Attest:
(Seal)
Secreatry
(Seal)
Secretary

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
20A
AGREEONT
Between S.A. Sindicato Cellulosa Pomilio of
Rome, Italy (hereinmater called "Pomilio" only) and Gadelims
& Co., Ltd., of Tokyo, Osaka, andDaIREN (hereinarter ealled
"Gadelius" only) it is hereby agreed as follows:
1.
Pomilio appoint Gadelius their sole agent in
Japan with Dependeneies and Manchukuo for the purpose of
handling all business relating to the Pomilio alkali-emlori
system of making cellulose.
2.
Gadelius agree to work energetieally for the
introduction of the Pomilio system in the oountries mentione
in 1, and not to work for any similar competing alkali-ohlor
system.
3.
Pomilio agree to hand over to Gadelius any
direot inquiry they may receive from the oduntries mentioned
in 1.
4.
Pomilio agree to hand over to Gadelius all
necessary technical data as well as detailed manufaoturing
drawings of apparatus required to build plants according
to the Pomilio system.
The drawings reaain the property of Pomilio,
and shall be returned to them at the termination of this
Agreement.
Gadelius agree to keep information and drawing
confidential and not to hand them over to any outsiders.
The net license to be paid to Pomilio for using
the Pomilio system shall be as follows:
At a calculated output of pulp of
50 tons /24 hours U.S.100,000.-
19
150,000.-
150
1"
19
200,000.-

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
At intermediate outputs the license shall be
ealculated in propertion to above.
No royalty per ton of pulp is to be paid in
addition to this license.
6.
The license stated in 5 shall be paid as
follows:
50% when contract signed with client.
30% when factory started, but not later than
12 months after the first payment.
20% 3 months after starting, but not later than
15 months after the first payment.
7.
Gadelius shall make necessary applioation to
the Japanese Government for remitting the license amounts
to Pomilio when due.
In case the required permit should not have been
obtained within 3 months after aue date for payment, as
stated in 6, Gadelius shall deposit the license amounts
with a Japanese Bank, subject to Government permit, in the
name of Pomilio, whereafter these amounts are for Pomilio's
aceount.
8.
The machinery required for the Pomilio system
is intended mainly to be built in Japan according to Pomilio'
drawings.
In case some special machine or apparatus should
have to be imported, Ponilio agree to supply such machinos o
apparatus from abroad, if possible, at their cost price  lo
delivered free factory.
9.
al oosts for applying and maintaining present
or future patents in Japan and Manohukuo within the peried
of validity of this Agreement shall be paid by Gadelius.
Gadelius agree to assist Pomilio to obtain and maintain
patents on the Pomilio system.
Present patent applications are acoording to
Appendix 1 of tnis Agreement.
10.
This agreement shall be valid for
imonths from
the date of signing.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.89)
We, the undersigmed, do heseby guarasted
centract so far as Gadelius & Co. Ltd., or theár
are oonoorned.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
As soon as Gadelius have received on order
for a Pomilio plant or an essential part thereor tmis A
ment shall automatieally be valid for & years from the ds
of signing. Thereafter it will continue to be in foree with
3 months' notice, in advance, from either party.
In ease Gadelius snould not be able to develop
the business so tnat reasonable prospects of order oan be
proved within 6 montns from the date or signing this Agreeme
pomilio snall nave tue right directly to approach olients in
Japan witn Dependencies and Manchukuo, after naving given
due notice to Gadelius of tneir intention to do so. In such
a case, however, Gadelius shall be entitled to continue and
complete the negotiations that tney may already have started
with tneir customers, subject to satisfactory explanations
being given to Pomilio for approval.
11.
Any dispute about tne corect interproation
of this Agreement shull be subjected to arbitration whereat
each party appoints one trustee and these twoappoint a third
trustee to serve as arbitrators. The deoision of these
arbitrators shall be final and binding for both parties.
12.
In order to sign this Agreement and to carry out
their part of the obligations, Pomilio have given full powers
to Dr. Ernesto Salvatore according to their letter of July
30th, 1940, and telegram of October 23rd, 1941, copios of
whioh are attacned to tuis Agreement (appendix ll & III).
13.
This Agreanent has been made out in 4 sigmed
copies, 2 of wnich have been given to Dr. Salvatore for handing
to Pomilio, and 1 of whicn has been taken by Gadelius and
Dr. Ernesto Salvatore, eacn respectively.
TOKYO, Ootober 27th, 1941.
For S.A. Sindicato Cellulosa
GADELIUS & CO., LTD.
Pomilio:
(Signed)
(Signed)

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
AGREEMEINT BETWEEN
GOCIETE ANONYME SOLEX
ND
KOKUSAN KOGYO K. BUSHIKI K ISHA
MEMOR NDUM OF AGREEMENP mede this third day of June Ono
Thousand Nine Hundred nd Thirty Six Botween SOCIErE ANONY
SoLx. whose rogistored office is t 190 venue de Neuilly.
Nouilly sur-Seine, France (herein fter called "the Solex Co.")
of tho one part und KOKUS N KOGYO K. BUSHIKI KaISHA, whoso
rogistered office is at o.16-2 Marunouchi ic ome, Kojimachiku.
Takyo, Japan, (hereinafter called "the Kokusan Kogyo") of the
other part, WHEREAS the Solex Co. re the sole manufacturor of
Solex carbure tors for engine, uutomotive and viation industri.
N WHER S the Kokusan Koyo re desirous of manufacturing Sol
carburettors in Japan for supylying the ppar tus to engine.
automotive and viation industries ir Japn under theterms an
conditions horeinafter set forth, HOW I IS HEREBY AGREUS AS
FOLLOW:
1. The Solex Co. hereby grant to the Koltusen Kocyo the
xolmsive rights for   ct ri in Japan, Corea, Taiwan or
Manchukuo Solox corburettors of ll types d models for gasoline.
alcohol or nixed uel, d rts t ereof wnder the brand "solEx.
which re to be  bed to utomotive, aviation arine or stad
ary ensines.
It is mutu ll undorstood tat owir to the f ct that

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.95)
autherising them to manufacture Solex carburetters intened f
thair moters cctually built in Japan, this egreement ean 
way interfere with their rights nor can entitle the Eeknsan Kegge
to any advant ges en Solex carburettors to be fitted to Hispane
Suisa motors.
2. The Solex Co. hemoby agree to entitle the Kelmsan Keg
to grant to a third party, uring the centinuanee of this agremmt
a license for manufacturing Solex carturettors in Japan, 
Taiwan or Manchukuo under suc!: terms nd conditions as they eem
adequate and expediont, provided that the Kokus n Kogyo should
romain responsible for thefulifillment o their obligutions a
prescribed.
3. The Solex Co. shall prepare for the Koltusan Kogyo such
matters as undermentioned (herein fter called "the Documontation")
and ship seme for taem as soon s possible, so that it can reach
them by the end of August 1936.
(a) All drawings and descriptions necessary for the
munufacturing of Solex c rburettors of ll type and
models and parts thereof for cutomotte, aviation.
marine or stationary engines.
(b) All drawings and descriptions for the installation of
the manufacturing plant  nd its equipments togother
with detailed instructions for the oporation of the
plant.
4. The Kakusan Kogye shall pay the Solex Co. mm of
Yen Sixty Thousmd (¥60.000.) us a compensation for the sail
Doeumentation, which is payable as follows:
10:000...
.... On the signing of this greement
¥50.000.
Payable on presentation of a detailed
list of the documentation nd shipping
document to a bank in Parlm hich will
be nomin ted by the Kakusan gy.
-2-

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.94)
5. The Salem Ge. hareby grant to the Kekussm Kegye the
exelusive right fer wsing the brand "soLEX", with an exseptien
made in faveur of Hispame-Saisa as per the foregeing Clmme 1,
for the sale of sarburetters and spare parts, whieh will be
mamufactured by the Kakusan Kogye in accerdance with Bekex
drawings enly, being clearly understood that the brand molex
must not be inserporated in the neme under which the Kn
Kogyo or uny of their subsidiary br nches or factories or thr
sales organisations are operatin.
6. The Kokusan Kogyo hereby ree to pay the Selax Co.
royalties on the sale of all Solex c r urettors and spare parts
on the basis as follows:-
(a)  Pereant (l0%) on the sales amount of units.
or stationary engines, sun: lied to buildors.
(b) Fifteen Percent (15%) on the sales amount of units,
replacements, spare parts for automotive, marime
or stationary engines, upplied to retailers.
(c) Tem Pat (lo) on sales mount ef aviatien units.
replaeements, spare parts, supplied to buihmpers.
(d) Pifteen Percent (15%) on s les amount of evlation
its, replacements, pare parts, smpplied te retailer.
7. The Kolnsan Kogyo hereby  ree to pay the Selex Ce.
royalty on the preceeds of license they may grant to a third par
according to the foregoing lause 2. an the basis as fallemt
Yen Three and Sen Fifty (¥3.50) per litre on cylinder
capacity of notors. to hic: Bolex carburettors are
fitted.
. The Kckusan Kogyo hereby guarantee annual minimum
roy 1ties for the Solex Co. the guaranteed smounts nd mode of
payment to be as follous:
-3

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.92)
(a) Minima Rayaltys
For the FIRer YRAR cemmencing
at the 1st Jamuary 1937 ......
Yen Thirty Theassnd
(30,000.)
For the snCoND YEAR eommenc ing
at the 1st January 1938
Yem Thirty e
(835.000.)
For the THIRO TRAR commencing
at the lst January 1939
Yen Thirty Five Theasand
(35.000.)
F the FOURPH YEAR and ollowing
every year
(¥50,000.)
(b) Mode of Payment:
The minimm royalty for the first your shall be paid
of January 1937 at the latest. This mode af paymant
and further years fellowing during the sentimmanse of
MA
this agreement.
It is understoed that in cuse arrival of the documentation
be delayed for oe time rino unforeseen ciroustanees ch
commecements ef the workin year or the minimum eyalities
and also such paymants s iv n in  foregoing sub-clauses
8a and Bb respectivel, rould be postponed accordingly.
9. The Solex Co. hereb under  ke to assist the Kokusan
Ko yo in every pos il n  he studying of Solex carburetter
of different types del, hether gasoline or eleohel or
mixed fuel. supplyin 1l tec nical iniormation nd datas for
t  propor handlintheratus.
10. The Solex o. horeb undertake to supply t cost priee
the Kekusan Kogyo with a complete set of samphe Solex o rburetters
-4

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
of all types and models, which are manufactured by the Sale
Co. furnishing the Kekusan Kogyo with a list of the samples to
shew their respective prices before shipment is ffected.
11. The Sole Co. hereby undertake to procure for the Kelmmam
Kogyo such special machines or quipments that may be unavallable
in Japan oreelsewhere, at the lowest prices, nd to ship me
fer the Kekusan Kogyo, for which they shall be paid in Paris by
the Kokusan kogyo against shipping documents.
Tho Solex Co. shall submit to the Kokusan Kogyo partieulars
of such spocial machines or equipments showing respective priees
of same in order to get their approval of the purchases beforehand.
12. The Solex Co. hereby undert ke to give one of the Kokusm
Kogyo's engineers in thoir head factory in France a training
necessery for initatin: him to the technicue of carburation.
13. The Solex Co. hereby undertake to send a qualified
engineer to the Kokus n Kogyo's f ctory for the installation of
their carburettor mamufc turing plant, setting machines and
equipments in operation to start the nanufacturing, and alse
send onother qualified engineer to the same factory for fitting
corburettors to motors of different types and for the testing
and adjusting of units so s to get a perfect tuning of s
with motors.
The Kokusan Kogyo hereby agree to pay the said two engineers
the first class return passage and other necessary travelling
expenses, and also to pay them monthly allowance of Yen Ome
Thousand (1,Oo0.) each during their serviees in the Kaksm
Kogyo's factory.
-5-

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
The Kekman Kogyo mey send baek either er beth ef the
said engineers with ene month previeus netiee when they ralime
that their own engineers are sufficiently trained up.
14. The Kokusan Kogyo hereby undertake. if requested by
tho Solex Co. to apply for patents ad itional or now to be
rogistered in the name of the Solex Co. by the Japanese Patmet
Office, all expenses necessary for the purpose to be  by
the Solex Co.
15. The Solex Co. hereby undertake to grant to the Kem
Kogyo, without any edditional charges to such royalties or c
1
pensations as provided for in this greement licenses for all
improvements or inventions in relation to Solex carburettors
and for such patents additional or new in connection with Sel
carburettors that rnay be ra ted to the Solex Co. in Japan 
Franoe.
16. The Kokusan Kogyo shall keep detailed records and
accounts on actual  les of units, replacements and par par
end also on the proceeds of liconses they might have granted to
a third prty, nd shall allow an accountant authorized by the
Solex Co. to check such records and accounts, provided that
the said accountant shoul  of Japanese nationality.
17. The Kokusan Kogyo hereby undertake to render monthly
accounts covering the roy lties on sales of units, replacoments
and spare parts and also on the proceeds of licenses, which shall
be submitted to the said authorized ccountant for approval.
The Kokusan Kogyo shall vork out n annual account of tho
said royalties by the end of evemy year to show whether tho
correspondin annual minimun royalty is exceeded by the annual
-6-

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
ascount. The Kekusan Kogye shall immediately square up 
a surplus if there by any.
18. The Kekusan Kogyo shall effeet remittanoes through 
bank in Be. for the payment of roy lties, compensations or
purchase maney. hic re due to the Solex Co. in the ti
of this agreement.
The Kokusan Ko yo my ke romitt ces in Franse. if 
requested by the Solex Co., rate of exchange to be what is
prevailing in Tekye on the day when remittance s r.
The Kelnsan Kogvo shall take steps tar obtaining the
Government permissions for such renistances if necessary.
19. The Kokusan Kogyo shal1 coniine themmelves to the
manuf: ctueing of c rburettors of Solex ypes only and not to
make alternatives of any kind, nd alse to confine thmselves
to the selling of carburettors in Japan, Corea, Taiman and
Manchujuo end to take such measures as to prevent export of
ame by builders or de lers to other countries except when
attached to actual motors.
20. The Kokusan Kogyo shall sell carburettors and spare
parts under the brand "SoI x" exclusively nd not to uso their
brand for othor articles.
21. The Kokusan Ko yo hereby undertake to manufactur
Solex carburettors themselves in fos Electric Works, one of
their factories and not to transfer the benefit of this agreement
to other party or as ign the mamufacturing to other factory
without the Salex Co.'s written consent.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
The Koksan Kogyo shall remsin in case ef such trantte
 signment jointly with the transfere er asigmee 
ponsible temards the Selex Ce. for all the obligatiens pres-
ribed in this agreement.
22. The Kekusan Kogye shall take immediate steps. whoth
requested by the Soler Co. or not, to check unfair cmmpletitiom
by cutsiders, any prastices er attempts to copy. imitate Solem
carburettors and spare parts thereof or any infringoments f
the rand "soLEx" or the Solex Co.'s patent rights, regardle
of any actions that might be taken by the Solex Ce. themmelves?
23. . This agreement will remain effective for a peried f
fifteen years, ending at the 31st December 1951. It my.
however, be shortened at the Kokusan Kogyo's optien if the
become discoujtinuing to manuf cture earburettors in Japan
Corea. Taiwan or Manc fulmo, as follows:-
(a) Tas agreement will come to n end on the 31st
December 1939, 1f otice be iven by the Kolsan Kogye
to Solex Co. at least twe months before that date.
(b) This greement will come to an end on the 31st
December 1940 1f notice be given by the Kakusan 
to Selex Co. one year before that date, and so forn
for the rest of years.
24. This agreement may be brought to an end at y
the Solex Co.'s roquest, should the Kokusan Kogyo fall to fulfil
their oblig tions provided for in the foregoing Cl4..7
& 8 after having been requested to do so by a registered letter.
and this action will automatically ive Solex Co. a freedem to
withdraw their licenses and br nd and dispose of same as hey y
think proper, without prejudice of any cl im which the Solex Co.
might have ainst the Kokusen Kogyo for collection of over
royalties.
一3 -

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.87)
25. The Solex Co. my at any time transfer to me f th
subsidiary companies or te  holdi company of the Selem Ce.'
interests, the benerit ot tis a reement, remaining themselves
rspensible fer the ul i lacn. of eir obligations previd 
in this greem n.
26. It is utu 1reei re mnt is de
be a Japa ese co truct o e i erpreted acording to the
Law nd Regulations or Jupaee  pire Japanese Courts 
2
Law.
Copy  this  ree en ill be deposited to the Cretl
Attache of the Prenon nbs i ok o.
I. WI S W R dwur Jea ep ty n!  
have herounte st their and o1f of the Slx C. and t
Kokusn Koyo res ively d year first ab
SO: TE A ONYE SOLX
4
Edw..Jenaty. Author
KOKUSA KOIYO KABUSHIKI KAIBHA
M. Murakami, President.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
2
MEORANDUM OF ASSIGNMENT
Whereas KOKUSAN KOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA, No. 16 Nichome
Marunouchi Kojimachiku, Tokyo (hereinafter called "the Kokusan
Kogyo") acquired from SOCIETs ANONYLL SOLEX, Neuilly sur
Seine, France (hereinafter called "the Solex Co.") an exclu-
sive license for manufacturing and selling Solex carburettors
in Japan, Chosen, Taiwan and  anchukuo as per an Agreement
made on the 3rd June 1936 between the said two parties, and
whereas it has lawfully been agreed between the Kokusan Kogyo
and Kabushiki Kaisha HITaChI SLISAKUSHO, No.20 Nichome Maru-
nouch, kojimachiku, Tokyo. (hereinafter called "the Hitachi")
to amalgamate the Kokusan Dogyo with the Hitachi, dissolving
the Kokusan Kogyo ano to take all necessary steps in the pro-
secution and completion of the saio amalgamation on the lst.
May 1937, and whereas in consequence of the amalgamation, all
rights. privileges, interests, assets, liabilities, goodwill
and other things whatsoever may belong to the Kokusan Kogyo
shall automaticall De transferred to the Hitachi on that date,
inclusive of the aforesaiu license, and whereas the Hitachi
are desirous of manufacturing and selling Solex carburettors
under the said license, and whereas the Kokusan Kogyo have
ap liec to. the Solex Co. in accordance with Art. 21 of the
saio Agreement for their consent to the forthcoming transfer
of the license, against which the Solex Co. have announced
their consent in a letter addressed to Edward J. Depaty,
their representative for Japan, under date of 22nd Gebruary
1937.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
NOW, THEREFORE, TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN, BE IT
KNOWN THAT the Kokusan Kogyo hereby declare that the said .
license is duly transferred to the Hitachi prior to the pro-
secution of the said amalgamation having been consented by
the Solex Co. and that the Hitachi hereby declare that they
shall manufacture Solex carburettors in one of their fac-
tories and sell the same under the said license, holding them-
selves as licensees fully responsible towards the Solex Co.
for all the obligations as prescribec in the said Agreement,
and that the Solex Co. hereby declare that they shall confer
on the Hitachi all the benefits and privileges by virtue of
the stipulations of the said Agreement in like manner as they
have thereinbefore conferred on the Kokusan Kogyo.
1N WITNaSS WHEREOF, Namihei Odaira and Edward Jean Depaty
have hereunto set their hands on behalf of the Kokusan Kogyo
as well as the Hitachi and of the Solex Co. respectively, this
26th March 1937, every party herein concerned holding a dup-
licate hereof and depositing same to the Commercial Attache
of the French Embassy in Tokyo.
Namihei Odaira, President of
Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
and
Kabushiki Kaisha Hitachi Seisakusho
Edw. J. Depaty, Japan Representative
for Societe Anonyme Solex
Neuilly sur Seine, France.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
WHEREAS by virtue of an assignment made by Kokusan
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisla on 26th April 1937, HITACHI SEISAKU8HO
LIMITE) (hereinafter called "the Hitachi") are responsible,
taking the place of t e said Kokusan Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha,
for the fulfilment of the obligations as prescribed in an
AGREEMENT entered into between the SOCIETE ANONYME SOLEX
(hereinafter called te olex Co.") and the said Kokusan
Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha on the 3rd June 1936, AND WHEREAS the
manufacturing of Solex carburettors under the license has
become impossible for t e Hitachi urin the year of 1937
owing to the fact that  dif icult conditions now prevailing
among domestic and forei i. manufacturers have caused con-
siderable delay in the procurin; of the machinery required
for the erection oi the Hitacli's carburettor works, AND
WHEREAS the Hitachi have been caused by such unfavourable
circumstances to desire to have the payment of every annual
minimum royalty as per Article 8 of the said Agreement, post-
poned respectively for a period of one year, AND WHEREAS the
Solex Co. have accepte: the postponement as desired by the
Hitachi on condition hat he term of the Agreement as per
Article 23 thereof should be extended by a period of one year,
which condition has been agree upon by the Hitachi.
NOW THEREFORE, the Solex Co. and the Hitachi hereby declare
that they mutually agree to read henceforth Articles 8 and 23
of the said Agreement as follows:

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTICLE 8.
(a) MINIMUM ROYALTY.
For the first year comuencing at
the 1st January 1937
No Royalty payable
For the secol year commencing at
the 1st January 1938
Yen Thirty Thousand(30,000)
For the third year. commencing at
the 1st January 1939
Yen Thirty Five Thousand
(¥35,000)
For the fourth: year commencing at
the 1st January 1940..
Yen Thirty Five Thousand
(¥35,000)
For the fifth year comencing at
the 1st January 141
Ten Fifty Thousand(¥50,000)
For the following years uring
the continuance of the a reement. Yen Fifty Thousand(50,000)
annually
(b) MODE OF PAYMENT.
This sub-clause remains unaltered except "the first
payment taking p uce it te mi ddle of January 1937 at the
latest" shoul! re! the first payment taking place at the
middle of January lo3. at she latest"
IT Is MurUAmY   sro at u sumn of Yen Ten Thousand
(¥10,O00) which vas renit ed  the Hitachi to the Solex Co.
in May 1937 shoul. be automutically transferred so as to
cover the first installment of the second year's minimum
royalty as above mentione.
ARTICLE 23.
This agreement will remain effective for a period of
SIXTEEN YEARS ending at the 31st December 1952. It may, how-
ever, be shortened at the Hitachi's option if they become dis-
burettors in Japan,. Cerea,
continuing to manufacture Solex car
-2-

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.98)
Taiwan or Manchukuo, as follows:
(a)
This agreement will come to an end on the 3lst
December 1940, if notice be given by. the Hitachi to the
Solex Co. at least two months before that date.
(b)
This agreement will come to an end on the 3lst
December 1941, if notice be given by the Hitachi to the
Solex Co. one year before that dte, and so forth for the
rest of years
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, te parties hereto have hereunto t.
their hands the 22ne y or ovember 1937.
SOCIETE ANONYME SOLEX
iw, J. vepaty,
Representative for Japan.
"itness:
HITACHI SEISAKUSHO LIMITED
M. Akita
II. Odaira, President
-3-

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.89)
C O N T R AC T
0CT. 20 1946
Kabuehik! Kaisha Eyozan Seisngu-jo
(Kyozan ngIneering Worke Ltd)
No.l30 Kamieueyoeh1-mach1 Turum1-ku
Yokohama City

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.93)
THIS AGRKAXNT mede the sixteenh dey of mas,1se.
beTween BHE UNION SWITCH & SIGHAL COKPANY, & eSSPeVaSSOn
erganined and existing under the lams of the state ef Pemmayà-
vanin, in the United States of Americn, hevins its heed afriee
at Swissvale, Peansylvania, United States of Ameriee, (herein-
after referred to as the Union Company), and the Kabushiki-
Kaisha Eyosan Seisakajo (or Kyosan Engineering Works, Limited),
a corporation organised and existing under the laws of Japan,
(hereinarter referred to as the Kyosan Company).
WITNRSSETH:
WIRSA3, the Union Conpany by reason of cortain patemts,
manufasturing processes, specirications, extensive engineering
and commercial facilities, good will, etc., is in a positiom
to render substantial assistance to the Kyosan Compeny in eem-
nection with the manufacture and sale of railwmy sigmal appe-
ratus and parts thereaf, and
WHEREAS, the aforesaid Kyosan Company, by reason ef
its facilities for manufacturing railway signal apparatus and.
parts thereof, is desirous of acquiring the right to mamufae-
ture and sell such railway signal apparatus and parts thereef
under the patents, and of securing the benefits and advanteges
to be derived fram the manufacturing processes, teahnieal
informmtion, assistance, and good will of the Umion Company,
and
WHERKAS, GEORGE A. BLACDMORE, of The Union Switeh
& Signal Company, having been duly euthorized by said Company
to sign this agreement on its behalf, and
KHRRKAS, Tokio Kobayakmme of the Kyosan Company,
-1-

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
一一
has been duly mstherised by said Cempany te sian this agree-
ment on its bebalf, and
WHKREAS, all things necessary to make the agreememt
when exeouted the valid, binding and legal obligation of the
Union Company and of the Kyosan Company for the enforoement
of the performance and observance of tho covenants and stipu-
lations set forth in this agreement have been done and per-
formed each on ite own behalr by the Union Company, and by the
Xyosan Company, respectively, and the execution and delivery
of this agreement have in all respects been duly authorized.
N, TO, in considerution of the premies and
of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained, it is
agreed, as follos:
1. This agreement relates to Rmilway Signal appe-
ratus and parts thereof and sigml circuits, (hereinafter
referred to as "the Apparatua"), in the manufacture of which
the Union Compuny is engaged. The term "the Apparatus" as
used in this agreement is, therefore, to bo undarstood to
inglude all apparatus having for its object the safe and
efficient movement of cars, trains or railway switches, on
raiiroads operated by steam, electricity or other motive
power, as well as other apparatus for the protection of life
and property on railroads; such apparatus usually comprising
autonatic signal systems, highway crossing signals, inter-
looking plants oparated by olectric, electro-pnoumatic, mechani-
cal or electro-mechanical means, autmmatic train stopping or
speed controlling apparatus (except the air brake oquipment and
preumatic apparatus forming a part thereof or used in conneo-
tion therewith).
2. The Union Company, as far as it Lewfully may.
- 8 -

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
granted and agreee to grent, to the Eyesen Cangant, subjees to
the provisiens of this sgreesent, a liesnee to mesufasture
"the Apparatas" in the Eapire of Japes, imalading Nemshm,
Shikeks, Xyushu, Hekkaido, the Looshoe Islands, Fersess, and
Karee, and the Railway Zome ceded to Japan by China under the
convention relating to the South Kanchuria Railwey (all of
which is bereimarter referred to as "the Territory"), and not
elsewhere, and to sell in "the Territory" and not elsewhere
"the Apparatus" so manufacturod by the Kyosan Coupany, under
any and all existing patents of "the Territory" whiah the
Union Company mow owns or is entitled to pertaining to "the
Apparatus", and any and all patents of "the ferritory" taken
out or msquired by the Union Company or to which the Uniom
Company may beoome entitled partaining to "the Apparatus"
during the term of this agroement. The rights and licenses
granted or to be granted under the provisions of this Section
are not to be assigned, and sub-licenses are not to be granted
in respeet thereof without the consent of the Union Compeay
first being bad and obtained in writing. The Union Company
shall promptly after the execution of this agreement give the
Kyosan Company powers of attorney and other doouments as may
be neceesary for registering in the Japanese Government Patent
Office that the Kyosan Company is the licensee of the patents
of "the Territory" owned by the Union Company pertaining to
"the Apparatus".
3. The Union Company during the term of this
agreement, shall so far as it lawfully may, comnunicate to the.
Xyosan Company upon request all the technical and manufastur-
ing data and infonmatiom which may from time to time be
acquired or be in the possession of the Umion Company, and
- 3 -

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
whieh mmy be messssery for the mamsfesturing eperetien ef the.
Eyesan Cempany in eonnection with "the Apparatus".
Whenever the Kyesen Compasy foresses a requiremené
to proesed with the manufacture of any of "the Apparatus".
and wishes to make preparation so that it may proceed with
the manuracture, the Union Company undertakes to communicate
to the Kyosan Company all the technical and mamufacturing
dute and information necessary for such manufacture, in antiei-
pation of and preparatory to the actual manufacture by the
Kyosan Company.
It is the intent that the Kyosan Company shall only
be entitled to demand and receive from the Union Company
technical and manufacturing data and informtion relating
solely to "the Apparatus", the manufacture of which the Kyesmm
Company intends to begin forthwith after the reoeipt of such
data or information.
The Union Company assumes no responsibility in
connection with any of "the Apparatus" that may be manufactured
by the Kyosan Company under the technical and manufacturing
data and information furnished by the Union Company.
The Union Company undertakes to supply to the Kyosan
Company, blue prints from its owm standard drawings and
eirouit plans showing the oustomary use and application of
"the Apparatus" to be manufactured in accordance with the terms
and provisions of this agreement.
It is underatood and agreed that the Union Company
will not communicate to the Kyosan Company any informtion as
to the processes which may be to the property of the United
States Govermpent; or processes or patents in regard to which
the United States Goverment has plseed injumetion on the
-4 -

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
zighs to comenisste to ethers; or pressssss or patenés
eeguired witheut the right of commmication thereef.
4. In comsideratien for the liesmses, teekmieel and
manufasturing deta and infermstion, ete., provided for is this
agreement, the Kyosan Company shall promptly upon the exmeeutiem
of this agreament pay to the Union Compamy the sum of Twe
Humdred Thousand Yen (¥200,000). Upon receipt of the said
paymont, the Union Company shall immediately subsoribe and
pat for capital stock in the Kyosan Company to the amount of
Two Hundred Thousand Yen ($200,000) face value, and the
Kyosan Company thereupon will 1ssue to the Union Cempany fally
paid eapital stock having equivalent face value.
For the purposes of this agreement, "paid in capital"
is defined as the amount paid in on subsoription for capital
stook, whether such amount be in full or on aceount of sush
sutsriptions.
The Kyosan Company hereby represents that its present
capital stook does not axceed One £illion Yen (¥1,000,000).
In the event that the capital stook of the Kyosan Company be
1nereased from time to time beyond One Million Yen (¥1,000,000).
then in further consideration for the licenees, technical and
manufacturing data and information, otc., provided for herein,
the Union Company shall be entitled to twenty per cent. (2ox)
of such additional issuos of capital stock. Accordingly,
the Kyosan Company shall make furthor cash payments to the
Union Company of sums equal to twenty per cant. (20%) of the
total amounts to be paid in by all subscribars (including the
Union Company) to the additional capital stoek authorised as
and when, and so aften: as such payments are called for by the
Kyosan Company, and the Union Company upon reoeipt of each
-5-

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
sech paymest shall subeeribe fer fully paid eapital steek ef
fase valme equivalent to the moums so reesived fres the
Kyosas Cempasy, and shall thereupon pay to the Xyosan Cempasy
in full of its said subsoription an amount equal to the amewms
mo paid to the Union Company by the Kyosan Company. Upen
reesips s eaah suah payment the Kyosan Company will imsue to
the Union Company fully paid capital stock having face value
equal to the mount of the emah paymont received. It is
understood and agreed that there shall not be any liability
at any time or in any event on the part of the Union Company
to pay any subscription for or call upon shares of said
capital stook, whether now or old mhares, until the Kyosam
Company shall first have paid to the Union Company the full
amount of suah subsoription or oall so to be paid.
It is the intent and purpose of this agreeuent that
the Union Company shall at all times during the life of this
agreesent own not less than twenty per cent. (zos) of the
paid in capital of the yosan Company, and shall receive the
same proportionate dividends on its fully paid oapital stoek.
whether payment be made in stook or in oash, as paid on the
other paid in capital of the Kyosan company; provided, however,
that if in any fiseal year the caah dividends paid by the
Kyosan Company on its capital stock are less than five per
cent. (5p), then as further consideration for the licenses,
technical and manufacturing data and information, etc., pro-
vided in this agreesent, the Kyosan Company shall pay to the
Union Company in cash a sum equal to the differance between
five peroant. (5%) of the total amount of the fully paid
capital stook in the Kyosan Company secured by the Union Cempany
under the provisions of this agreement and the actual amoumt
-6-

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
of the ensk dividends paid by the Xyesen Canpany to the Uaten
Cemphay en 1ts satd eapital steek in sueh year. It is undes-
aseed and agreed that the Kyosan Company will pay dividends
on not to exseed the total amount paid in for sapital steek
and will not pay dividands on any unpaid portion of the par
valus of the total capital stock issued and outstanding.
5. During the term of this agreement, the Union
Company shall retain the capital stook in the Kyosan Company
secured by it under the provisions of this mgresment, previded,
however, that if, after the termination of this agreement or
at such prior time as may be mutually mgreed upon in writing,
the Union Cempany desires to dispose of any or all of the
said stook, the nominees of the kyosan company shall have the
first right to purehase the said stook from the Union Company
at a priee equivalent to the highest firm offer from a respons- .
ible prospective purehaser whicn the Union Company may have
received therefor.
6. The Union Company further agrees to comply with
the requirements of the commeroial law of the mpire of Japen
with respect to the appointment of an gent for the capital
stook secured by the Union Company under the provisions of
this agreement.
7. Should the yosan Company desire to appoint
agents for the sale of "the Apparatus" of its manufactuse in
"the Territory", it is understood and agroed that such appoint-
ments must first be appeeved in writing by both the Union
Oompany and Mitaui & Company, Limited.
8. It is further agreed that Mitsui & Company,
Limited, shall have the right to import into "the Ferritory",
the Uaion Company's masufasture which eannot be supplied by
-9-

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
the Eyessn Caspasy er whiek may be preferred by the eustesere
of Mitsui & Campary. Linited.
9. The Uniom Cempany, at the request of the Eyesem.
Compeny, shall supply to the Kyosan Company at factory cost,
1meluding packing, plus twenty per cent. (20) f.o.b. Union
Company factory, fabricated parts of any or "the Apparatus",
provided that such apparatus or the parts thereof are then
regular producte of the Union Company.
10. The Union Company ahall pemit one representa-
tive of the Kyosan Company to be in attendance at the mannfac-
ture in respect of whiali the Kyosan Company shall be entitled
to technical and manufacturing data and information.
The Union Company shall also permit from time to
time the attendance at its works of special representatives
sent by the Ryosan Company in respect of specifio matters,
whose visits shall be limited to the time required to meoure
the spestal information necossary. The Union Company reserves
the right to determine the number of special representatives
that are to be sent to the works of the Union Company.
11. The Union Company shall durin: the torm of this
agreement apply for and paintain patents in "the Territory"
at its own expense on such inventions as the Union Company
may be entitled to when, in the opinion of the Union Company,
such inventions are of sufficient importance to be covered
by patents for the protection of the rights of the Union
Company and the interests of the Kyosan Company under this
agreement.
12. The Kyosan Company agrees that it shall upon
erecution of the during the term of this agreement, offer for
sale, aecept ordars for. and manufacture any of "the Apparatus".
- 8 -

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.90)
2
18. te Eyessn Cengeny chall s at ay time sall
o sgply eny of "the Ayparatus", exeept to persens, firme er
eempesies carrying on business in "the rarritery, me to
Gevermess er Lunicipel bodies within "the Territery", 
aaly for the purpose of being used or worked therein.
14. The Xyosan Company, as licensee of patents of
the Tarritery" owned by the Uion Coapay partalains to "the
Apparetue", shall durins the tarx of this agreememt, at its
oum expemse and without furtior comsideration from the Uniem
Cempany, eemdust lagal prosecution for any infringement of
sueh petemts ccourring within "tte Territary" wherein patents
of "the Tesritory" obtain. It is understood that, in ease of
such legal prosesution Leing eondusted, the Union Cempany
shall give the Eyosan Coapany powers of attermey end ether
doeumemts es may be required for that purpose. It is fursher
understeed trat in the event of failure of the yosan Company
to prompely institute ard diligently conduct legal prosecution
against infringenent of any patent of "the rerritory" emed
by the Umien Corpany portaining to "tho Apparatus", the Uniem
Company shall have the right to iustitute and condust sush.
prosecutiem ut its owm expense, and thst this right shall not
be waived by any pewers of attorney or other documents which
may have been siven to the Kyosan onpany for the purpose of
enabling the lattar Company to concuct such proseeutiom.
15. The Kyosen Compeny agrees that, ess the -
sent in writing ef the Umion Cempeny be first obtained, it will
not make any wse of the mase "Taien" mor will it make any wse
of the tredemarks, tredenemes or memegrems of the Uaiom Cempemy,
or any imitatien thareet, during the tam ef this agreement,
or thereefter, either as a part of its eerperate. or fim neme
- 9-

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.90)
 tese, egt thas the Eee Gogey may stake, ing
the eemsimeee of this egremens, smbjess to the epprevel
af the taion Canpany as te the fomm in thish the eeme shall be
deme, that "the Asperatus", the subjees of this egreement, is
made by it wander Lieense fren and in assestanse with the
desigme and teekmieal inforzation furnished by the Umien
Ceapesy, and the xyosan Corpasy sbell apee the request of the
Unien Cempary, further affix to all "the Apparatus" suitable
notiees saticfactory to the Uhion Cempany, to indieste the
fast ef saok licenses and the respective patents involved.
16. The Tniom Company, during the term of this agree-
ment, mhall not grant to aay other party a lieense to mm-
fasture is "tke Territory:, or to manufaeture and mell in
"the Territory", "the Apparatus" for whieh the Union Company
mow ens or may owm patents of "the Territery".
The Uaian Company, during the term of this agree-
ment, shall not eormunicate to ay other party for wse within
"the Terrisery", mamufacturing data and speeirieatiens as
provided  this romont.
19. The Eyosan Conpmay agrees that it will not
during the life ef this agremvent, make agreements with other
mamfesturers to camufacture "the pparatus" of such ether
manufectarers' types or designs other then the Kyosen Cempany's
oum or thes of the Union Company.
The Kyesan Company shall not cammmicate to any third
party withees the consont of the Union Company first hed and
obtained in writing any teehnical or mamafacturing data or any
infermatien siven to er ebtained by the Kyesen Cempany, as
aforesaid.
18. In the event of the Kyesas Cempany being manageß
-20 -

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
er esstselled uy a liquidating trestee er ether etriesel er
representative asting in similer eapesity, this egreemeas,
at the eption of the Untien Company, mmy be termimated end
eanselled by the Union Compary, in which event all rights
of the Kyosan Company hereunder shall cease.
19. Bubject to prior termination, by mutual comsent,
this agreement shall remain in foroce for twenty (a0) years
from the date hereof.
Immediately upon the termination of this agreement
for any cause whatsoever, all rights and licenses granted to
the Kyosan Company by the Union Company under this agreement
or under the patents of "the Territory" owned by the Union
Company shall terminate and cease, and the kyosan Company shall
promptly execute and deliver to the Union Company such powere
of attorney and other documents as cay be necessery for regis-
tering in the Japenese Government Patent Office to effect the
cancellation and nullification of the similar documents pro-
vided for in the last sentence of paragraph 2 hereof.
20. All notices provided for in this agreement shall
be in writing and may be given by peraonal delivery or regis-
tered mail addressed to tho Union Company at wissvale, tate
of Pennsylvania, United 3tates of America, and by personal
delivery or registered mail addressed to the Xyosan Company at
No.3,. Heiancho Nichone, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Japar.
2l. If any question shall arise concerning the con-
struction or performance of any part of this agreement or any
matter conneoted with same, such question ahall be decided by
arbitration. If the request for arbitration arises with the
Union Company such arbitration shall take place in Tokyo,
Japan, if the request for arbitration arises with the Kyesas
-1 -

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
。
eempary sush arbitration shall taks place is Pittebungh,
remmsylvania. Kach party mhall appoint an arbitrator end if
either party ahall fuil to appoint its arlitrator within thirty
(39) days after notice in writing so to do from te party
desiring the arbitration, then if such failure be on the part.
of tie Union Company, the yosan Compay shall request the
President of the Chamber of cosmorce of rittsburgh, Pannsyl-
vania, to appoint the socond arbitrator to represent the Union
Company, and if such failure be on the purt of the Kyosan
Company the Union Company shall requast the residont of the
Chamber of Commerae of Lokyo to appoint tho second arbitrator
to represent the yosan Company. In the ovent of failure or
refusal of the Fresident of the Chanber of Commerce of Pittsburgh,
Pennsyivania, or of the President of the Chaaber of Commeroe
of Tokyo as the oase may be, to namo such second arbitrator
within thirty (30) days after receipt of a request so to do,
the first arbitrator selectad may select the second arbitrator.
The two arbitrators selected as aforesaid, shall within sixty
(60) days designate a third arbitrator or uapire.
he throe arbitrators shail within two months after
the selection of the third arbitrator or wapire, as herein
provided, moet and hear the atters submitted to thes and
shall give each party reasonable notice of tho time and place
of such meeting. after hearing both purties and taking such
testimony or naking such invostigation as they may deem neces-
sary, they shall within six (6) months after their first meet-
ing make thair award in writing upon the questions so submitted
to them, including the division of the expense of the arbitre-
tion, and shall serve a copy of such award upon each party.
Tho avard of a majority of such arbitratora shall be final
-12 -

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.94)
form thereto.
2. The interpretation, the effest ef this agmée-
mest and all rights and obligatiess arising thereunder shall
be governed by the lam of that state or country whisb, by.
the primeiples emmmsiated in desisions of the Supreme Court
of the State of Peaasylvanie, is the lam applicskle therete;
and in the event that ascording to the,prineiples contained
in the foregoing decisions the law of Japan is the proper lew
governing any question at issue, but according to the
prineiples of the law of Japan, the law of Japan in its turn
holds that the question at issue is goversed by the lew of
the State of Pennaylvania or any law other than that of
Japan, then the law of the State of Fenmsylvaaian shall geverm.
IN WInhkSS WikREor, the parties herete have caused
this agreement to be exeeuted this mixteenth day of Mareh.
1988.
TLHE UHION SWITCH & SIGNAL COLPANY
George A. Bleckmore
By
Vice-Presidemt.
ATTEST:
Seoretary
KABUSHIKI-HAIHA KYOSAN SEISAKJO
By
Tokio Kobayakawa
Wanaging Direetor.
ATEST:
Kan Masuda
Auditor.
-13-

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.95)
STATE OP PESISYLVANIA
S8:
COUNTY OF ALLEGHENY
On this 18th day of February, 1928, befere me
perecmally eeme GEORGE A BLACK:ORE, to me known and knowm to
me te be the individual described in and who executed the
foregoing agreement; and be aoknowledged to me that he exseuted
the same.
(Signed)
Notary Publie.
ACKNORLBDOELKNT ON BEHALF OF KYOSAN COMPANY
Empire er Jaan
Prefecture of Tokyo
City of Takyo
SS:
Consulate Gemeral of the )
United States of America )
Om this 30th day of March, 1928, before me persomally
came Tokio Kobayakesa, to me known and known to me to be the
individual deseribed in and who exoouted the foregoing agree-
ment; and he meknowledged to me that he exsouted the same.
(Signed) ....
Vice Consul of the United Stases
of America at Tokyo, Japan.
Fee No. 754
AME RICAN CONSULATE CENERAL
MAR. 30 1988
TOKYO, JAPAN
-14-

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.94)
Union Switeh & Signal Cempany
Geozge A. Maekmere
Swissvale, PA.
President
September 9. 1940
Kabushiki-Kaiska Kyesan Seisakuso,
The Industrial Bank of Japan,
No. 8, Marumeuchi Itchome,
tokyo, Jaym.
Deer Sirs:
Referring to eur agreement with you of
March 16, l92s, and to owr recent correspemdenee with
Miteui & Company or Bew Yerk, it is our umderstanding
that the said agreement is medified in the following
respeots:
1. We will continme to send to you
promptly every month through Mitemi& Company
two coples of eaeh of our patent applieatioms.
Iiled in the Umited States, and falling within
the seope ef the said agreement.
2. You will investigate the aforesaid
patent applications and will apply in your mame
and at your expense for Japanese and Manehukmou
patemts en suck eases as you consider tobe
aávantageous both for you am us.
S. In the event of the termimation
of the said agreement of March 16, 19zs. you
will promptly apply for the registration of
assignment from your Company to us ef sach
patents whieh have beem applled for and granted
as abeve.
4. You will pay all exponses for
maintaiming the patente and utility models which
We possess at the present and whioh fall withim
the seepe of the snid agreement of Mazch 16, 1l92s.
and all patents and utility models whieh, you shall
secure for us in the futare.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
L-L. X. S.
-2-
9-960
5. In Sempemsatiom for the above
items, we agree to caneel our right previded
for in Itom 4 or the eforesaid agreememt te
receive twenty per eent (so%) of mmy inereases
in your capital stock which are intended selely
for manafaeturing and for selling other limes
of goods than reilway signaling appeotms enl
parts thereof.
If the foregoing is in accordanee whth your
understamding. will you rimdly sign one copy of this
letter in the space below mnd return it to us.'
Yours very traly.
THE UNION SWITCH AND SIGNAL COMPANY
By
G. A. Blaokmore
President
Aecepted:
Dabashiki-Kaishe Kyosan Seisakage
8. Higuehi.
Managing Direetor

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.91)
COHTRACE
Date 1000
hereafter wsede-
A - Svemsm A/B Logg
B - Yamtam Kogye I.X.
C - X.X. Tekye Keild Seisalmshe
TEXT.
part I.
"A" and "B" agree to have "C" use the patent rigate fer 1og
Item (1) the patent righte can amly be emplaged fer mamafacture
received directly frem the Navy.
(2) The remmeration fer the patemt rights 1s T 15,000.-
(Fifteemtheusand Yens) and it is mitually agreed that
with the executiem af this ceatract.
(3) "C" sheuld fully underatand that the use ef the patemt
rights has been specially allewed upem cmsideratiem
ef the request made by the Imperial Japamese Navy, in
this agreememt will terminate at mce in case the
beeeme pessible.
The means of tranapertatiens, ef course, lavelve the
-1-

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.89)
Imperial Japanese Navy.
PriH.
af the patent rigate dees zet mean to give
meratiem mamed wnder part No. I, item (2).
Part III.
Is ls clearly to be understeed that the cameemt fer the use
benefits Ln law.
Part IV.
"A" and "B" have eptiem to cancel this asreememt at-right a
the futare witheut metice in such as stated below;-
(1) When ins trustiem is received frem the Swedssh gevermment
(inc luding such a case as that whch is governed by law).
named wnder Part I, item (2).
(2) Whem the terme of this agreememt are met fulfilled by "c"
Part v.
The arraagoment aet ferth ln part Iv dees not give "A" er "B"
latiem right, which are to be given to "A"
"A" er "B" te suffer aay disadventage in using the right in mking
Paro VI.
If the terme ar this centract are zet preperly met, by "o"
by C" at the rate ef 4 1,000.-(Ome thoasand Yens) per plece ef leg
installasion.
Part VII.
The items mot memtioned in this agreement are all te be judged
in acserdenoe with the Imperial Japemese law.
-2-

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.80)
M区.
statiamed in Jay
Poro x.
as final.
me eegy ef each respestively.
Demamixatien of patent rigats:-
Patemt Nupber 104231 S0laya
2
126020 3a1-14
"A" Svenska Aktiebelaget Leg
Bwedem.
"B" Yama take Kegye K.K.
Sole apoate in Japen and repeesentatér
fer "A No.6 Mmrmamaki 2-shome,
Kojimacki-im, Tolye.
Presiéemt
"c" K.K. rokye Leild Sedmmahe
Kamataku, Tokye.
President
witmeses
-3-

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.79)
-1 -
AGRETNT made this 27th day of Angust. 1918
DOKER LECTROH IC  Y. Ne York orporalon.
after culled the "Company" and T AN XAUSHIXI XAISA.
of ji, Jupan, u corporation of the mpire of Japan, herein
efte: os 1led the ", alohe":
eJaane
No.25. 64 dned prl 22. 1.14 x  o1red valuabl 
perience in the ur:  makin o tic l! is and ohloride of
l imeypeenr o eleutrl1rid and the
elshe is desirou o:  crati vue t  a oreseid satont and
of util izin the ex ience o: te  ia connegtion thore
rtove namod do mtually
apree a: tolloe:Thernt e inin coneidration
of ne oller ln hand t11.ot t ti other. the recoipt of
hie is hecoty aotnovleip  in conrideretion of the matual
covenant: her:in:
irat. - he on y  ree to latruct one or or
rapresent:liv a or nominee of t e ai he i the raotioal op
errt lie olent  te omoan situntee t iarre Pall
i ine
lat  r or, w lch urse the ompany age
tlotllan compent gi
eers o e e i t to t t roce ad make aran lnga and de
clgne for o ciretr
rrotrbte aieha in
Jb.tatItviceand
Infortetio the re re. cs t  iocinees of tc aiaha is
er by expresl exemst pin royin or inourring

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.84)
- 2 -
any expense er liability for or on aceount ef smek m
tives or neminees. The Company further agrees to 
the expense of the aishn n to ship to the Kalahe in 
two full sized eleotroi tic e l. es model. to be usod by tho
Zaiahe for fture construct in apen, payment for the ost
price ther t to oe r i us   ork aainst receipt
of Ll1l of la.
eoiroceedith all du
diligenoe to crret t  atrol tic olent in Japan
cepeble o: turnin t lm
1101 2. 10 pound
eaor) per dsy of tt leat ixt: ne   csustio sode
(Noo) or the ecuival nt  uutit, corre pon ing amounte
of tlenoh or othe elroo
 inoreese said plamt
to a minimum o  te toundn ceoh) per
de ae soon  mrrk t colillon: varr.n order to faoilitate
the ereotion n orereti ot suer l  t alshe, the
Company areee to ermit tsi  n e one of the Compamg
competent foremn i  te i ith raotioal auvice for
period oft1tiont it urther ard
thet ll theue
lall
to Japan and retur. ruee s Lr  seiu foroman are to
re pai ty the aishn  thnt so lon  the eid foromon io
nder tho control,  pervi ion, utiorit or in an way connoote
with or , otin 1 or on tei of or tarough the aishe. the Compm
is he eby expr sl xe t r il n every expenae. liabllity
reoponaltility toue) loreme
Third. - he ompeny agree o rrt td. the Kaiohe tho
ril snd ezclurive Licenve under its ur ic exieting Japanes
otent  patonte and under any further Japenese patent or pat

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.89)
● 8.
 ents er imprevements relating directly thereto as well
and exelusively to inform and inetruot the Kaishe in els
of ssid eleetrolytic processes and of all matters cemmeetel
therewith for use in plants to be operated by the kaishe in
Japan or Japanese por ions, but not elsewhere.
Fourtt. - he  n frees to eneble the Kaishe to
inform iteelf at il  s  to an an ll imprevements of t
Company in ite o ic cl ctrol tis roce es for the mammfaoture
of alkalie. ohlorine   i) jue or lie d all apparatus or
ecuipment reletin. thereto. c elsin grees not to divulg
or pernit to be divul ed to an. other f iy vithout the express
written onsent of the omprn. on i for'stion ss to any suoh
prooesses, manufeoturin etro, erui meut or confidential in
forstion relrtin to the urme, wtether parted direetly or
inireotly t or lerru . mean of or through the Com ny. 1
agents or representetiver or  ny infomstion reaulting from the
sanc ,  to take sll r one'lc recuutions to prevent any such
information from bein ivul,  d. If and whenever eithe party
desire t inapect or cxa ine work wnec or controlled by the
other. there shall be,t  ress natlr nd convenient times.
upon presentation of rove: atroauct! ne na oredentials, full
and entire liberty an: rovi L or one) inaneotion or exam
nation as to all procduees. ors  meehine reletine to the
manufnoture oforeuei. i il exueae  nd rrounerrtion of
euoh inapeotore shull i ove cssr e Is  t perty on
whose behalf suo i eotfon i rde.
Fifth. - he atsh: n recs to rurnish the Company
free of un, onarge un. end :11 informetion and improvemonts or
simnlifioatione conce niny the processes, a neratus or enuip

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.86)
●  -
ment, direetay relating to the eleetweiytte ma
Xalis, ohlerime or onloride of lime by the preeess ef
pany whien the Kaisha has or may intreduse er invemt in mose
prooessee, apperatus or enuipment, and to allow the ase of e
Bame ty the Compan wit out chert. The ompeny agrees mot 
divulge or permit to be  ivul ed to u other permon exoept 
the coprese consent in wrlti ot :alah any suoh 
tlons ae to an rocess,   freturir metrod, ccuipment or 
fidential co municntio. irt  ts pane imparted direotly
or indireotly by or lear e  r t or througch the Kaishe.
ite aeonte or re reee tetive: r  oformstion rosulting from
the same and to take ll reour?
tions to prevent ny
such informataon from ve .ivul
1xth. - The . ie  r to pey to the Company
within one (1! month afte rvr. i o1 oc tod of e1x (6)
monthe ns ro alt. for t  tonts and impmoomont.
processe and informti antin to twe ty-five por
cent. (25) of the al:  i ri Por the preceeding 
(6) monthe resultin fro  ccetrol; tin manufaoture of
alkalis. ohlorine or oi rt e o c or roduots produosd direetay
through the operet! eil of which said 
Iness anell be oonduotou trr a separate unit for
wir ich unit a seneret   ins ivi ual vet of books shobl bo
reot and saie net rt  trtrt ther of to be roeeived
by the Compen oortmore fu ls et out in
rtioleevereo.
.thst, if, during ang
of tie aforewee rix  t us of six (6: tont's the not profit
 t.aisne resulting fr the aforeeuic eleotrolytie manu

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.85)
festure after deduoting seld tweaty-five per o
suen net prorit sbell amount to a sum less thes Tem
(10) per amnun on tne capital invested by the Kate 
sueh manufaoture, then in that event, the Kaimhe ei 
to the vompany tronty po: cent. (2)') or its net profit f
aforesala manufect ur as ropalt, for the use of said petemts
and improvement, prcces. cs as infur ati . inatead of the
twenty-fivo rer cort. (2.  sinhefore reserved.
ovont. - it is t reod by the parttes beret
that the aforesai: not prerl  ivision of the me betwem
the partios us sui i rt. i. .rt: ie ixtn shall be caloulated
as follows;
l.  Cres uceinte:
(1)t
(2) Interost,
311 terce.
2.alp
f1lo8.
(1) an : i e perating pen
2)rdio.irnintenanee whinll
Inoluae onl   cponses as are negossery
 iuitable condition to
oper:te  is oripinal cupacity and efriclemer.
(3) driistr len and onoral penses
(4) n: upn tie Land used for this moparete umis
u le yoariy rut i fivo per cont () or
the resent land value;
S) egul exconsus, taxes and foom;
c) ommercia cisoounts whion hall Inelude all
the discounts deducted by purehesere in pay-
runt of lavo lees;
7, interost al not more then the provaili
market ruto un neoussary louns in edaitle
to the ori ar: vorsing capital or investmeme
uppropriuteu to this particular uait; imtorost
on neither of wnion is to be dedueted;
(o) eprecia lion of rixed capital, exelusive 
work ing ompital vdiich ahall in the average men
exceed ten per cent. (lo%) yearly en m
fixed capital investment.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.86)
In o t hll  iires
penses and maid legal expenses, taxes and foes
separate unit of the Aaishe's business be greater is
age than stailar items charged to other umits of the
businass proportionately to the res eotive amounte ef e 
Ital invosted in this unit and i the remaining units of e
Kaimha's business, and r  resented by cupital stook ismed ame
outstanding. me baialnce r in uftor deduoting the abve
said total expenses fror ai s raceipta shall be takem 
the gross profit fre io to in itens shull be d
ductd,the reinue  prorit:
l.-  resorve   exceuuine an average of ton por
cent.yur the gross profit or this wmit
z.- onus s r irtor  inspectors m xeedin
tan per cen:. , ot the ross profits of this
anit
S.  poni  xceedinan average t rive per
cont. or  rss rorits of this unit.
n n event ! io   lotal deduotion n
account or reserve fune, or  aiructors und inspeotor.
wnd pension rund, ohurre:  s ate unit of the Kaicha
busineas oe greater an t c ar d to otuer unito or the
Kuisha' business, pror alo to the rospective mounts
of capital investes i t is unit unu n lo romaining unite of
the alsha's business   rusonod by cupitul stook issed
and outstandin.
Heath. -  i rees to subit the Jompany
senl-annual staterents o: account certiried under oath and fur
ther to allo lo o a t deigate a ropese tative to v
iry taese stetement of accounts irom the booke of the Kaiche.
!Inth.- The ulshe ngrees that the partiolpation in

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.90)
the mat prefite referred to in artiele sizth of mãs
small never be less, from future ealargements
the life of the aforesaid Ja unese patents or improvemomts
theroon and is nut limitod to the first or initial plant of
the Ralsha but eitends to an/ and all inoreaso or enlargement
thereof and to un mi. i tho piants or busineas anthorimd.
operated or controilou iruct. I i direotly by the Kaimha in
whlah this process or a rit, is directiy or indireotly ud.
The falshe rurther areee . e  uut of all thi buoi
ne it hall be id is li    evory liability, 
ponse und loss Incurreu    . uny is hereby expre
ly exoapted fro the e,   til agreed thet no
parthership obligution js  o li arise s a reoult
of tese prosents.
Tenth. - Tho ais ree:  se it does not ort
or perate in Jepan kithl tire yeurs fre tie dste hereof
a lant of ut least five l
ous euoh:ally
(24 hours) prouuctlon of ut josst si:ty per cent. (s') caustie
sode ( c) or the oculvaiont r saic uuntity, and corrospond
ing amounts of bleach or cler culorine produots, then the Cop
shall se entitled to interaict t n fur nor use of its processes
or apparatus by t aisha.
loventh. - The  aishs admits tue validity or sald
patont No. 2,tsc and agroes never oy un) manner, mothod or
forn to gontest the validity of tis same nor to aid othere di-
reotly or indiractly to Infringe these putents or to contost
the validity thoroor und still further that any invalidity of

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.90)
serms thereof mor in any manner relesee the ssta Xaid
eurred direetly or indirectly by reason of or threu  
treot.
welftn. - it is utually aroed by both partios
that this reement sall ind und shall inure to the bm
of the parties lhereto, teir successors und ussigns, and the
partios horeto furtner egrue tnst lüey, their successors and
assigns, wlll executo, uocaleage and tellver suen other or
furtuer instruments us may ve necessary from time to time to
ive effeot to this ugree ent, sccording to the true intent .
moanilin tnereof.
hirteentn. - n to event laut the Kaiaha shall
abandon the use uf sniu rocesu Dy reuson of the feet that 1
is not successful or becuuse c petiti o reval undertaking
or other impedimonts, notwitnstundin he aiahe's sineere d
iligont efforts, shull runu ie vusinose unprofitable, both
purtles to this ugreement utlly gree to cancel this on
tract witnout companenti to cither arty. This contreet
sh Imo be terminab! ompany ror the wilful and per
sistont fallure of the iain to carry ut any or the obll
i ns ussuned by it herounder. In the event of oueh eameelle
lion or termination votn :artles agree not to divulge to any
tner arty any inforantio or impart any experionee or traim
ns ubtninnd oy ither purt, i relation to this business.
Jnlose so cancelled or teiainetod it mhall remain in full foree

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.89)
and ofteet uatil terminated by mutual sonsent.
Pourteenth. - In ease of any disngreedent 
regard to the construction or meaning of any of the
of this contract, or the vulidity thereof, or uny alleg
breach of any of the provisions hereof, or any disegrememt o
to the performance n tis contraot, or dispute in any way
arising under t, uny urt to vis ureement, or thelr m
mors or assles, ns tue rit t. demand that all suen que
tlons, utters and clsputes shall ve submitted to arbitreetiom.
me rurt, derand ine suc aroitration shall duly name one of e
一
arbitrutors. he otner part,  t is agreenent is to neme 
second arbitrator un the tro titraters no named mhall hear
and determine the matter in : i lerence, and if they can aree,
they sheli decide it. t.  canot agree, then sueh 
bitratore shall nure a ti r ratur as umpire who shall 
oide ac matter.f, eve, e  arbitratore o nd
cannot agree. n such s s mpire, thn the c
pan sall throu  ee of thett of 
York nouinate a aiector f Pinl urbitretor und tho Keishe
through the har:ber of o me e f te ity of roklo hall like
wise nominate un elector or . rinn arbitrator, and such
eleotors so numed s.ail a ree upon und nane a person who hall
act us final arbitrator ud  re eno suoh final arbitrator d
umpire suail declde all matters in dispute and differenee be-
tween the pur:les licreto. it is expressly agreed by both par
ies hereto tnt te loclslun of lno first mumed urbitrators.
if tuey shalt agree, or of tne final arvitretor in case of aio
ugreament between the arbitraters firet namad, shall be fimal

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
and binding upon all the parties hereto, their successers and
.assigns, with the same force and effect as a decree of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
IN WIRNESS WHERFOR, the parties hereto have caused
these presents to be signed in duplicatè by their officers
thereunto duly authorized and their respective corporate seals
to be hereunto affixed as of the day and year first above write
ten.
HOOKER ELECTROCHEMICAL COMPANY,
BY
E. H. Hookor (Signed)
President
Attest:
D. (Signed)
Secretary.
KAN TO SANSO KABUSHIKI KAISHA,
BY
Y. Tanaka (Signod)
President.
Attest: Uichiro Ishikawa (Signed)
Director and Secretary.
State of New York
S.S.
Country of New York )
On this 31 day of august, 1915, before me personally
appeared E. H. HoOKER, to me kaown, who. being by me duly sworn.
did depose and say; that he resodes at New York City, N.Y. :
that he is the president of ooker Electrochemical Company, the
corpcration described in and which executed the foregoing in-
striment; that he knows the seal of said corporation;,that the
seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it
was so affixed by order of the Bord of Directors of said corp-
oration, and that he signed his name thereto by like order.
C. B. N.
(Signed)
Conmissioner of Deeds, New York City
Empire of Japan
City of rokohama
Consulate General
S.S.
of the U. S. A.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.92)
. 11 -
New York ---------- No.17ooo.
---March 23 - 1917.
On this first dey or aron, l9l5, before me personally
appeared Y. Tanaka to me knowm, who, being by me duly worm,
aid depose and say; that ne resides at Tokio. Japen, that he is
the president of the anto anso Mabushiki Kaishe, the eorperation
descrlbed in and which executed the foregoing instrument that he
knows the seal of sui: corporation; that the seal affixed to smid
Instruments is sucn corporate seal; that it was so affized by order
of the ord of irectors of said corporation, and that he simed
his nase thereto by iixe order.
(Signed)
Dor ul cenerel of the
ni d tate of merica
at Yokohana, Japan.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
LICENCE CONTRACT
BETWEEN
Messrs. KOKUSAN KOGYO Kabushik1 Ka1sha, at TOYO/J
herearter reforred to as "koktsan "
and
Liessrs. TITAN KOGYO Kabushiki Kaisha, at TOKYO
hereafter reforred to as "TITAN KoGYo"
the folloving agreement is made and antered into, binding the
perties as well ns their legol successors.
1.
TIrA koGYo h ve tl.is dey made a c ntract with the Dorhg
SERYO GO! EI KAIHA of KOBE/TOKYO, b Whiol. the tWo companu agree
to grant each ether licences for the production of Titanium Pigment
at the terms described in detail in the contract "D". Referrin to
that contract, KOK SN KOGYO u.dertake to grent TITAN KOGTO exmu-
sive licences within the scope of the "licensed field" a herein-
after defined under all patents, processes and subjecet ma ser
available to KokA KogYo now or lter with the right for TTAN
KOGYO to grant sublicences.
The term "lioensed field" Wherever herein employed
meas and includes
a) All methods, processes nd apparatus in the field of
manufacture of ll Titunium ompounds, containing two
per cent (2%) or m re of the element Titanium in a
chemically, mecla ically or physically combined state
and mixtures thereof, which cen be used as pigments,
whether or not edepted for other uses and
b) All such Titeniu co pounds an d mixtures, whioh con be
used as pigments, whet! er or not adapted for other uses.
2.
Whenever KoKuuA KoGYo file an a pplicstion for letters patent
on an invent ion i the licensed field kOkUsAN KOGYo shall within
two months from the date of filing send a copy thereof to TInN
KOGYO with information as to the cou tries in which KOksAN oGYO
will file an applicetion or such invention.
TITA KocYO and thc ir licensees or sublicensees shell be en-
titled to apply for patents in all other countries and kokUSN
KOGYO will on request supply TITAN KOGYO with all necessary papers
and powers for tliet purpose and so far as possible under the
provisions the Internntional Convention for the Proteotion of In-
dustrial Property.
KokusA KOGYo shall prosecute with all possible diligence
and cere, all potent spplicctions wihich KOkusAn koGYo have announoed
will be filed by them ond in the case of difriculties confer with
TITAN KOGYo their licensces or sublicensees in the respeotive
monntries as instructed by TITAN KOGYO.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
3.
KOKUSAN KOGYO undertake to make in"düe t ime a1l
neceseary to ma intain and prolong the patents in the
unless TITAN KOGYO expressly renounce their olaim on
lioence.
4.
The expenses inourred by KonSAN KOGYO in obtaining, main-
taining, prolong or defending any patent in the "Lioensed Field"
in future will be refunded by TITAN KOGYO. TITAN KOGYO is,
however, relieved of this obligation when the exolusive lioence
is renounoed by them or otherwise terminatee in which case TitAN
KOYo shall be entitled to a non-exclusive licence under the
petents in question.
5.
 KoKUBAN KOGYo agrec that they Will as far as poss ible
require their officers, agents and employees to assign to them any
and all invent ons within the licensed field whioh may be made by
them or any of thom prior to the t ime fixed for the termination of
the exclusive licences or.d of any extension of such time.
6.
The exclusive licences hereby granted shall last as long
as KOKTSAN KOGYO cont inue to own shares in TITAN KOGYO in acoord-
ance with the contract mede between KOk Sall KOGYO and DOITsU.
Should such ownership cens, TITal KoGYo will receive a non-
exolusive licence in respect of all inventions, patents and patent
applications of which XonAl KoGYo are then the owner, such
licences being available to PITA KOGYo as well as their liöensees
and sub-lioensees who heve received or
subscquently receive
a lioence from PITAl KoGYo.
7.
TITAr KoGYO or ar y exclusive sublicenscc under any patent
hereunder shell be entitled et tlcir ovn expense to take any legal
steps for the proteotion of such patent and recover dameges,
penalties and profits for infringements of such patent and to
receive for their own benefit any sums recovered by suoh steps.
They are for such prupose entitled to use the name of KokAN
KoGYo as owners or the patents but th gives them no right to
cla im reimbursement from KOKsAl. KOGYo of the expenses inourred
by the procedure. The perty taking such steps shell, however,
provide for Koksa KogYo satisfactory security against all
expenses and liabilities which ney res ult for KOkUSAN KOGYO from
such proceedings.
KOKUsA KoGYo shall be notified of such steps inmediately
and shall be entitled to intervene at their own expense in such
litigation,
8.
TITAN LoGYO shall never direotly or indirectly question or
contest the validity of any patent under which it is licensed by

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
mAN KoGYo nör use nor infringe the same ex
bonniwe with or afford any peoumiary or other
any contostant or questioner of such validity.
KoKusAn kDGYo assume the same obligations with regssa so
the patents of TITAn Kogyo and of the companies cooperatimg wi
TITAN KOGYO in the "lioensed field".
9.
KOKUSA: KOGYO undertake that, in case they invent or
have at their disposal as owners or licensees any process which
involves the use or Titanium Pigments, they will stipulate whem
granting licences in respeot of suoh processes, that the lioenseem
shall cover their requirement of Titanium Pigments solely and
exolusively from TITAl KoGYo of their licensees or sub-lieensees,
or such other firms designated y DOITSU, unless KOKUSAN KOGD
setisfies DoITsU that suchh stipulution is impraoticable.
10.
rONSAN KOGYO undertake to provide thet tho Vippon
Saneyo Concern undertake for itself end use all endeavours and
take all measures in its power to ensure that its associated
and affiliated companies shall respeot this agrecuent as if they
were parties to it and that t ey shall do nothing contrary to
the interests of TITAN KOgYo and the oompanies oooperating with
TITAN KOGYO in the "licensed field".

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
DATED 14th June 1989.
MESSAS HANDLEY PAGE LIMITED
- to -
MESSRS MITSUBISHI KOKUKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA.
LICENCE
Brash Wheeler Chambers Davies & Co.
16 Paternoster Row.
London, E.C.4.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
made the Fourteenh ay f
wood in the Ceuntry of Middlesex England (Hereinafter called "the
pat entees") of the one part and MITSUBISHI KOKUXI KABUSHIXI KAISA
a Company incorporatea in Japan in accordance with Japanese Law
whose registered office is at Tokyo Japan and whose Agents in Lendem
are Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha Limited of Cory Buildings ll7 Femehureh
street in the City of London (hereinafter called "the Lieensees")
of the other part W H E R E A S the Patentees are the owners ef
certain Letter Patent in Japan in conneotion with wings for
aeroplanes the partioulars whereof are set forth in the Sehedule here.
to A N D wHrREAs by an Agreement made the twelfth day of June ome
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight between the Patentees of the
one part and the Licensees of the other part the Patentees agreed to
grant to the Licensees a Licence (as hereinafter mentioned) to demign
manufacture and sell in Japanese territories only aeroplane wings in
accordance with the said Letters Patent (hereinafter referred to as
Handley Page Slotted Wings) and any improvements modifications and
developments thereto upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
contained in consideration of the payment by the Licensees to the
Patentees of the sum of Fifty-three thousand seven hundred and fifty
pounds in part satisfaction whereof there was paid to the Patentees
on the exeoution of the now reoiting Agreement Ten thousand pounds
and on the Thirty-first day of Deoember one thousand nine hundred and
twenty-eight Eight thousand seven hundred and fifty pounds and as to
the balance of the said sum of Fifty-three thousand seven hundred and
fifty pounds namely Thirty-five thousand pounds the Licensees agreed
to give to the Patentees a Bond of the Licensees for the payment of
the sum of Eight thousand seven hundred and fifty pounds on the Thirty
1

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
One theusand nine hundred and thirty-one and the Thirty-first day of
December One thousand nine hundred and thirty-two N 0 W THIS
INDENTURE WITHESSETH that in pursuance of the said Agreement and in
consideration of the sum of Eighteen thousand hundred and fifty
pounds paid by the Lioensees to the patentees as to Ten thousand pounds
thereof on the Twelfth day of June One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-eight and as to Eight thousand seven hundred and fifty pounds
on the Thirty-first day of December One thousand nine hundred and
twentyeeight (the reseipt whereof the Patentees do hereby acknowledge).
and of the handing over by the Licensees to the Patentees of the said
Bond seouring payment of the said sum of Thirty-five thousand pounds
the Patentees hereby grant to the Licensees full and' exelusive licenee
and Authority during the terms of the said several Letters Patent now
to come and unexpired and any prolongation or extension thereof to
design manufacture and sell in Japanese Territories only (but not else-
where) in conneotion with airoraft now or hereafter belonging to the
Japanese Naval Department or to. be used by them for service with the
Japanese Navy only (except with the previous oonsent in writing of the
Patentees) wings construoted in accordance with any one or more of the
inventions the subjeot of the said Letters Patent for incorporation
in such airoraft whether constructed or reconstruoted by the Licensees
or by any other manufacturers and if desired of applying the said
invention in Japanese Territory to existing airoraft for use by the
Japanese Navy only and the parties hereto DO HEREBY COVENANT AND
AGRSE
eaoh with the other us follows:-
2

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
smch information and drawings as are necessary te emable she Lies
to proceed with the design manufacture and sale of Handley Page 
wings.
an engineer or engineers who shall be in their regular and permanems
employ to the works of the Patentees at reasonable and proper times
the Patentees will afford to suoh engineer or engineers facilities te
acquaint himself or themselves with the methods of design and details
of construotion of Handley Page Slotted wings and of the componemt
parts thereof in so far as suoh information shall be requisite te
enable sueh engineer or engineers to apply the same to the said
aireraft.
五
SHoULD the Licensees by notice in writing addressed and deliveret
to the Patentees so require the Patentees will on sueh terms as mmy
be previously agreed upon in writing and at the entire cost and
expense of the Lioensees.
(a) Send to the works of the Licensees a competent engineer to
advise the Licensees in matters conneated with the design
construotion and application of Handley Page Sletted wings
(b) Carry out for the Licensees wind channel tests so far as they
may require the same in conneotion with Handley Page Slotted
wings
(e) Design and or manufacttre parts of such Wings or slotted
wings
(a) Fly airoraft to which slotted wings have been applied by the
Licensees for the purpose of testing the same
 Licensees shall not at any time hereafter raise or cause
40
to be raised any question coneerning or any objeation to the validity
of the said Letters Patent on any ground wharsoever
THE Patentees hereby covenant with the Licensees that not-
5.
3

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
the same shall be enjoyed without interferemee by the Pasemtess r
and legally establish that the Lieensees have no right to the full
and exelusive lieence and authority hereby granted
Tht Licensees shall affix to eaeh Handley Page Slotted wing
manufactured by them and in a conspicuous plase thereon a Metal Plate
containing a statement in plain letters to the effeot that the wing
is manufactured under a Licenee to the Licensees from Handley Page
Limited the owners of Patents Numbers 40493,40882, 4088s, 40881.
40880, 60819 and Japanese Applioat1on Number 1969 Automatie Slot
stating the numbers of the Letters Patent used in the sonstruetion of
suoh wings and also stating the number of the eeroplane with whiek msk
wings are licenseed to be used
7.
THE Licensees shall give notice in writing to the Patentees
of any infringement or threatened infringement of the said Letters
Patent whioh shall at any time form time to time come to their.
knowledge
8.
THE Patentees shall so far as they may be entitled mo te de
communicate to the Licensees all improvements modifieations and further
inventions that they may aisoover or propome to use with respeet to
the said invention during the subsistence of this Lieenee (whether
such improvements modifications or further inventions shall be
patented or not) such improvements modifications and further inventioms
shall be deemed to include the inventions inoluded in the British
Letters Patent Numbers 223292, 167318 and 263290 The Patentees w111
so far as they may be entitled so to do fully diselose to the Licenseem
the nature and manner of performing the same and so far as they are
entitled so to do will permit the Licensees to manufacture and sell
4

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.95)
she seme ia Japanese Territeries fer use in cemmeésien
belenging to the Japanese Neval Departmens fer serviee wish s
Japanese Navy enly without payment of any kind
Lh Licensees shall so far as they may be pemitted by L
to do forthwith communicate to the Patent ees any imprevemems meétfe
repeat to the said invention during the subsistenee of this Lieemes
(whether smoh improvement modification or further invention shall te
patented or not) and will so far as they may be permitted by law fully
disclese to the patentees the nature and manner of performing the same
should the Lisensees whsther in their own names or that of any other
person persons company or firm patent any such improvement modifie-
ation or further invention in any part of the world the patentees shall
be entitled to use the same during the whole period of suoh patemt er
patents
10. THE Patentees shall pay all renewal fees and do all such acts
and things as may be nesessary to maintain and keep on foet the said
Letters Patent unless and until the Licensees shall asquire such
Letters Patent
11. THE Licensees shall not at any time use the said invention other
than in connotion with airoraft for use in the Japanese Mavy and shall
not disolose and shall use their best endeavours to prevent the
disolosure to any person pe sons firm company or corperatiem (ether
than the Patentees) without the consent in writing of the Patentees of
any seoret manufacturing process knowledge or information in conneetiem
with the said invention whioh may come to their knowledge (other than
improvements or inventions by the Licensees) during the continuanee
of this Licence always exoepting in mo far as it may be necessary for
the Licensees to produce drawings and submit information concerning
the said invention to the Japanese Navy in conneetion with speeifie-
8

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
whish they may require
 quostien er diapute shall arise between the pae
herete or their assigns with regard to their respeetive rights
liabilities or otherwise under these presents the same shall be
referred to the decisien of two referees or their umpire pursmast se
the Arbitratien Aot 1889 or any statutory medifieation or re-enastme
thereof
ã netice required or authorised to be given by either party
hereunder to the ether may be serveu by prepaid lester sent through
the post in the ease of notice to the Patentees to their registered
office for the time being and in case of notiee to the Lieensees te
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha Limited of Cery Buildings ll7 Femehureh ssreet
in the City of Lenden their duly appointed Agents er Atterney and it
shall operate and be deemed to kave been served at the expiratien of
Winety-six hours from the time of being put into the post Office er
a Pillar Box under the control of the Postmaster General and preef
that the letter was properly addressed and posted snall be surriciemt
evidence of serviee.
140
 THIs Licence shall be construed and take effeot according to
English Law.
IN WIT E S S whereof the Patentees and the Licensees
have hereunto caused their respeotive seals to be affixed to day
and year first above written.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.93)
SCHEDULE
Japanese Patens Jumber.
40,493
159,567
Originally ferwaraly
locatea alot.
40,882
166,428
Swivelling type of 
40.885
166,429
sliding type of slot.
Swinging gate type of ales.
40,801
166,480
40,880
172,109
Plurality of Slots.
60,819
176,909
Slet between sileron and
wing.
And Jajamese Applieation Number 1969
Automatie Slot.
THE COMMON SEAL OP MIT SUBI HI KOKUKI
XABUSHIKI KAISHA was herounto affixed )
in the presenoe of:

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
CONTRAT DE CESSION DE LICENCE DE PA
DES COMPRHASBURS & COMOJANDES MNCANIOUES DE CO
ENTRE LES SOUSSIGNES:
La Societe Henry, Maurice et Dick ERua dont L i
social est 149, rue de Silly a Billancourt (Seine), si aprem d
d une part,
Et MITSUBISHI AIRCRAFT CO.LTD., dont le siege social est
Monsieur MATSUMOTO, administrateur delegue de la Societe Anor
Prancaise MITSUBISHI, dont le siege est 7o bis rue d Amsterd
Paris.
d autre part,
IL A ETE AIRETH ET CONVENUE CE CUI SUIT
I.) CESSION DE LICENCE
F cede a M le droit non exclusif de fabrication par 1a
MITSUBISHI AIRCRAFT CO.LTD.. au JAPON et en MANDCHOURIh, sans.
droit de recession, d’un appareil suivant les inventions decrites
au brevet francais No.63l989 correspondant au brevet japonais
No.9150, au brevet francais No.654205 correspondant au brevet
Japonais No.96821, au brevet francais No.668021 correspondant a.
la demande de brevet No.76030 adressee au Japon le 23/I/30, aux
brevets Nos. 724.141, 726.162 (demande au Japon 11405), 738.130 et
750.976 (demandes en France 34634 et 352271) pour tous 1es moteurs
que la MITSUBISHI AIRCRAFT CO.LID., constuuit ou fait conatruire
comme pour tous ceux qu elle construira ou fera construire, a
lºaVenir. au JAPAON et en MANDCHOURIH.
Cette licence comprend, pendant la valiuite des brevets, le
droit d exporter en tous pays des appareils montes sur ou destines
a des moteurs FABRIQUES au JAPAON et en MANLCHOURIE par Is
MITSUBISHI AIRCRAFT CO.LT., ou par ses sous-traitants: "meme si
des brevets correspondant a ceux mentionnes ci-dessus sont deli-
vres dans ces pays
F s engage a fournir a  tous docunents pour la construction
des apparefls precites et a l aider par tous les moyens raisonnables.
F, sous reserve d approbation du Gouvernement francais, acceptera
dans ses usines, des Ingenieurs stagialres de M aux frais et sous la
responsabilite de M.
Du personnel technique pourra etre fourni par FaM pour
l aider, au Japon, a la fabrication des anpareils precite, a des
conaitions a debattre.
M profitera gratuitemont de tous perfectionnements brevetes
ou  apportes par F aux appareils stipules. Reciproquement M
fera profiter F des ameliorations qu elle pourra apporter aux dits
appareils brevetes ou on.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.97)
8
2.) PRIX
Pour remmerer F des avantages concedes et qui, en
du dreit de fabrication au Japon et en Mandchourie, eempert
benefice des etudes de F en general ainsi que des sais et 
experience technique, avec possibilite, grace aux dessims
serent remis par F. d'organiser immediatmment une rabricats
triello, M remettra a P:
a) une commande de doux compresseurs du mem
de 40.000 Francs 1'un plus 15 000 Francs d'indemmite
usines Farman, apres reception faite par un ingenieur delem par
, dans an delai de quatre mois, aux clauses techniques fixees
diautre part.
b) une somme forfaitaire de 30 000 francs (trente mille
francs) dans laquelle est comprisela fournituro des dessins d'etude
et de construction de trois compresseurs prototype, et qui sera
payable a la simature du present accord. Les dessi dewront etre
livres dans un delai de quatre mois.
o) la somme de 250. 000 francs (deux cent cinquante mille.
francs) payable lorsque M dosirera entreprendre elle-meme la cons
truction des appareils precites et destines a la vente en serie
F auterisera  a construire ses prototypes anterieurement au pafem
des 250.000 francs.
d) ane redevanoe calculee annuellement sur le prix de
facture du motour complet equipe de l’appareil precite, de :
1.50% jusqu' 100.000 francs (cent mi1le francs) pedevances
1.25% au dessus do 100.000 francs (cent mi1le framost) do
redevances et jusqu'a 250.000 francs (deux cent cinquante mille
francs)
1.00% au dessus de 250.000 francs (deux cent cinquante
mille francs) de redevances.
e) 5% (cinq pour cent) sur le prix de vente des pieces
detachies fabriquees par  ou par ses sous-traitants, wtant tendu
que ces pieces detachees ne serviront qu a la reparation d'appareils
pour lesquels la licence aura ete payee.
3.) PAYEMENT DES RHDEVANCES
 tiendra a la disposition de  une comptabilite de la
construction des appareils precites.
 enverra a F le 15 avril de cinaque annee le releve des
meteurs ou pieces detachees facturees au 3l mars: les payements
des redevances ayant lieu le 31 mai.
Les tats de redevances porteront le numero du moteur livre
et le numiro de la plaque de licence correspendante. Tout appareil

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.94)
Eeappesee d'ue facon apparente, ue plage
wurrie par F. Cette plaque de licence pertera
Les semmes prevues dans le present aséerd sux
et e) de l'article 2) ci-dessus, swivant l'etat anmsel
rémís par M., seront payables en especes au cours de je
en menmaie francaise.
Les payements prevus dans le present aecerd ment
serent verses a P sans aucuno retemue pour impots, sommli
.) DURKE
Le present contrat restera en vigueur jusqu'a l'extimauies,
en France et au Japen, des brevets ci-dessus mentfonnes.
B.) CLAUSES ADMINISTRATIVES
s’engage a ne pas discuter directement ou indirect
validite des brevets ci-dessus indigues, et quel que soit
ces brevets toutes les somes jusqu alors versees serent
partiem donnent attribution de juridiction aux Tribu aum
la partio attaquee.
Les frais de timbre et d'enregistrement sont a la charge de
celle des parties qui exigera cette formalite.
Fait en trois exemplaires a Paris le, 15 JAnVimR 1954
($igned)
(Signed)

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY
with
3D
MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA, (MITSUBISHI
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
AGREEMENT
The annexed copy of agreement is hereby identified
by'the signatufe of Mr. Harold Rowntree and by the signature.
of Mr. Frank Johnson, Secretary of National Pneumatic Company,
all pursuant to resolution adopted by the Board of Directors
of National Pneumatic Company, on the 14th day of May, 1925.
Dated May 15th, 1925.
(Signed). Frank Johnson.
Secretary of National
Pneumatic Company.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY.
COPY OF THE RESOLUTION ADOPTED AT
BOARD MEETING HELD MAY 14, 1925.
RESOLVED, that L. J. Musser, attorney for this company
be and he hereby is authorized and empowered by this Board
of Directors, in the name and on behalf of this company,
to negotiate, enter into, and execute an agreement or contract
for the manufacture and sale of power operated door control-
ling apparatus and parts thereof within Japan and Japanese
controlled territory, with the Mitsubishi Electrical.Engineo-
ring Company, a corporation organized and existing under the
laws of Japan, in accordance with the draft as per copy of
agreement attached, identified by the signature of Mr. H.
Rowntree, and by the signature of Mr. Frank Johnson, Secretary
of this company, and identified with the records of this Board.
I, FRANK JOHNSON, Secretary of NATIONAL PNEUMATIC
COMPANY, HEREBY CERTIFY that I am the duly elected, qualified
and acting Secretary of said company and in charge of the re-
cords of the meetings of its Board of Directors; that the
foregoing is a true and complete extract from the minutes of
a duly convened meeting of the Board of Directors of said
company held on the 14th May, 1925 at which a quorum of
the Board was present end voted in favour thereof
LN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of the company, this 15th day of May, 1925.
(signed) Frank Johnson.
Secretary of
National Pneumatic Company
(National Pneumatic Company
(West virginia.
(Corporate seal.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
MAPERE OF JAPAN
CITY OF TOKIO
CONSULATE GENERAL OF
THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
I hereby certify that on this 25th day of June. in
the. year of our Lord 1925, before me, the subscriber,
-Consul of the United States of America, at Tokyo, Japan,
personally appeared L.'J. Musser and Hideo Takeda, the
attorneys named in the foregoing agreement and by virtuo and
in pursuance of the authority therein conferred upon them,
.respectively acknowledged the said agreement to be/the act
of the NATIONAL PNEUMATIC CO., and the MITSUBISHI DENKI
KABUSHIKI KAISHA.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand
and official 'seal the day and year last above written.
(signed). J. W. Ballantine
Consul of the United States
of America at Tokyo, Japan.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
This agreement made the 25th day of June, 1925.
the NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY, a corpOration organizod
existing under the laws of the Sate of West Virginaia, in
the United States of Americal having its head office at.
Rahway, New Jersey (hereinafter referred to as the
"Technical Advi'sor".of the one part, and MITSUBISHI DENKI
KABUSHIKI KAISHA, (MITSUBISHI ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.
LTD,) a corporation existing under the laws of Japan (herein-
after referred to as the "Japanese Company")of the other
part:
wi、tnesseth +:
WHEREAS, the Technical Advisor, by reason of certain
patents, manufacturing processes, specifications, extensive
engineering and commercial facilities, good will, etc. is
in a position to render substantial assistance to the Japanes
Company in connection with the manufacture and sale of power
operatid door controlling apparatus and parts thereof; and
WHEREAS, the Japanese Company by reason of its faci-
lities for manufacturing power operated door,controlling
apparatus  and parts thereof is desirous of acquiring the right
to manufacture and sell,such power operated door controlling
apparatus and parts thereof under the patents, and of secu-
ring the benefits and advantages to be derived from. the manu-
facturing processes, technical information, assistance, and
good will of the Technical Advisor; and
WHEREAS, L. J. MUSSER, Attorney for the National
Pneumatic Company, having been duly authorized by said Company
to sign this agreement on its behalf; and
WHEREAS, HIDEO TAKEDA, Chairman of the Board of

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
Directors of the Mitsubishi Denki Kabushiki Kaisha has
duly authorized by the Japanese Company, to sign this
on its behalf; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the agreement
when executed the valid, binding and legal obligation of the
Technical Advisor and the Japanese Company, respectively, for
the enforcement of the performance and observance of the cov-
enants and stipulations in/this agreement set forth have been
done and performed each on its own behalf by the Technical
Advisor and the Japanese Company, respectively, and the exocu-
tion and delivery of this agreement has in all respects boon:
duly authorized:
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the permises
'and of. the mutual promises and covenants herein contained
it is agreed;
Section One. This agreement relates to power
operated door controlling apparatus and parts thereof, in the
manufacture of which the Technical Advisor is engaged,
Section Two. The Technical Advisor, during thè
term of this agreement, will so far as it lawfully may, com-
municate to the Japanese Company upon request, all the tech-
nical and manufacturing data and information which shall,
from time to time be acquired or be in the possession of the
Technical Advisor, and which may be necessary for the mann-
facturing operations of the Japanese Company in connection
with the apparatus coming within the scope of this agreemont
It is the intent that the Japanese Company shall only be ent-
itled to demand and receive from the Technical Advisor,
technical and manufacturing data and information relating
solely to power、 operated door controlling apparatus and parte
-5-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
thereef, the manufacture of which the Japanese Company i
actually engaged in or intends to begin forthwith aftor
receipt of such data or information.
Whenever the Japanese Company forses a requirement
to proceed with the manufacture of any apparatus falling
within the scope'of this agreement, and wishes to make pre
paration so that it may proceed with the manufacture, (when
and as such demand arises and the Technical Advisor is sat-
isfies that the Japanese Company is in a position success-
fully to undertake such manufacture) the Technical Advisor
undertakes to communicate to the Japanese Company all the
technical .and manufacturing data, and information necessary
for such manufacture, in anticipation of and preparatory to
the actual manufacture by the Japanese Company.
The Technical Advisor assumes no responsibility in
corinection with such power operated door controlling apparatus
and parts thereof as may be manufactured by the Japanese com-
pany under the technical and manufacturing data and informatio
furnished by the Technical Advisor.
2
The Technical Advisor undertakes to give to the
Japanese Company, in,accordance with the terms and provisions
of this agreement, designs, specifications and other manu-
facturing information in accordance with what is communicated
by it to its own manufacturing plants, and to give reasonable
assistance.to the Japanese Company to manufacture apparatus
therefrom.
The Japanese Company shall pay to the Technical
Advisor the: cost to the Technical Advisor of the preparation
of ail documents containing any technical and manufacturing
data and information communicated as aforesaid, provided that
any special or new designs of information requiring engineer-

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
ing development which may be communicated by the Technid
Advisor to the Japanese Company are to be paid for by th
Japanese Company at the cost to the Technical Advisor, plum
the percent. (l0%) of such cost. "Engineering Development
as herein used, means supplying to the Japanese Company
such manufacturing or other engineering informationaa is
not available in the records of the Technical Advisor but
which must be especially prepared at the request of the
Japanese Company, and also means development carried out by
the Technical Advisor upon such request and the furnishing of
experts in connection with such manufacturing development, by
the Technical Advisor to the Japanese Company.
The Technical Advisor will permit one representative
of the Japanese Company to be in attendance at its-plant in
order to study there the methods of manufacture in respect
of which the Japanese Company shall be entitled to technical
and manufacturing data and information.
The Technical Advisor will also permit from time.
to time the attendance at'its works of special represeita-
tives sent by the Japanese Company in respect of specific
matters, whose visits shall be limited to the tine required
to secure the special information necessary. .The Technical
Advisor reserved the right to determine the number of special
representatives that are to be sent to the works of the
Technical Advisor.
The Japanese Company in respect to the representa-
tive sent to secure information and to study in the works. of
the Technical Advisor will send only such representatives
as are proficient in the English lamguage.
The Japanese Company shall not communicate to any
-7-

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
third party without the consent of the Technical d
first had and obtained in writing any.technical or
ring data or any information given to or obtained by th
ese Company, as aforesaid.
Section Three. The Technical Advisor, so far as it
lawfully may, grants and agrees to grant to the Tapanese
Company, subject to the provisions of this agreement, an!
exclusive licens 'to manufacture in the Empire of Japan, its
colonies and dependencies, and not elsewhere, and to manu-
facture and sell in the Empire of Japan, its colonies and
dependencies, and not elsewhere, apparatus so manufactured by
it under any'and all existing patents of the Empire of Japan,
its colonies and dependencies, which the Technical Advisor
now owns or is entitled to, and any and all patents taken
out or acquired by the Technical Advisor, or to which they
may become entitled during the term of this agreement. The
rights and licenses granted or to be granted under the
provisions of this section are not to be assigned nor'are sub-
licenses to be granted in respect thereof without the consent
of the Technical Advisor first had and obtained in writing.
Section Four. The Japanese Company will not, at any
time, sell or supply any apparatus coming within the scope
of this agreement made partly or wholly under information,
specifications or drawings obtained from the Technical,Advisor,
expect to person's, firms or companies carrying on business in
the Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencies, and
to Government or Municipal bodies within the.said territory,
and only for the purpose of being used or worked therein.
Section Five. The Technical Advisor will, during
the term of this agreement, apply for and maintain patents
-8

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
in Japán on such inventions as, the Technical Advisor
entitled to when, in the opinion of theTechnical Advisor
such inventions are of sufficient importance to be covered
by patents and maintained for the protection of the rights
of the Technical Advisor and the interests of the Japaneso
Company under the-Agreement
Section Six. In consideration of the rights and.
licenses herein granted to it, and without further consider-
ation from the Technical Advisor, the Japanese Company, will,
following the signing of thi: agreement, pay to the Technical
Advisor an amount in American money equal to ten per cent.
(10%) of the selling price, F.O.B. factory, of all, power oper-
ated door controlling apparatus and parts thereof manufactured
and sold by the Japanese Company, payment to be made to the
Technical Advisor at its principal office at Rahway, New
Jersey, and in semi-annual instalments, and on or before the.
thirtieth day of July and January of each year from the. date
of this agreement. The Japanese Company agrees to estabrish
a special set of books to record orders and shipments of
power operated door controlling, apparatus and to render to
the Technical Advisor semi-annual statements during the
months of May and November of each year, setting forth the
sales of power operated door controlling apparatus and parts
thereof during the preceding six months, and further agrees
that the bdoks. of account shall be open to inspedtion by a
duly accredited representative of the Technical Advisor
at reasonable and proper intervals.
Section Seven. The Japanese Company agrees that
unless the consent in writing of the Technical Advisor is.
first obtained, it will not make any use of the name "National
-9

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
Pneumatic Company" nor will it make any use of the trade-
marks, tradenames or monograms of the Technical Advisor,
dr any imitation thereof, during the term of this Agreement
except subject to the approval of the Technical Advisor as
to the form in which the same shall be done, that the power
operated door controlling apparatus and parts thereof, the
subject of this agreement, are made by it under license from
and in accordance with the designs and technical information.
furnished by the Technical Advisor, and the Japanese Company
will, upon the request of the Technical Advisor, further af-
fix to all such apparatus or material suitable notices satis-
factory to the Technical Advisor, to indicate the fact of
the licenses and respective patents involved.
Section Eight. The Japanese-Company undertakes that
it will not, after the execution of this agreement, make
agreements with other manufactures to manufacture power
operated door controlling apparatus or parts thereof coming
within the scope of this agreement, of such other manufactu-
rers' types or designs other than the Japanese Company's own
or that of the Technical Advisor.
Section Nine. Subject to prior termination of'
this agreement by mutaal consent, this agreement shall remain
in force for ten (10) years from the date hereof, and from
year to year thereafter until terminated by not less than six
months' notice in writing goven by either party to the other,
such notice to be delivered six months prior to June 25th,
1925, or on June 25th of any subsequent year; neither this
agreement nor any rights thereunder can be assigned or
transferred by either party to a third party withput the
express consent of the other party first had and obtained
一10

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
in writing.
Section Ten. All notices provided for in this
agreement shall be in writing and may be given by persons
delivery or registered mail, -addressed to the Technicel
Advisor at Rahway, State of New Jersey, United States of
America, and by personal delivery or registered mail,
addressed to the Japanese Company at No. 1 Ichome, Yaesucho,
Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
Section Eleven. Wherevei in this agreement the term:
"Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencies" is used,
it shall be understood to mean Japan proper, including Hokkaido.
Kyushu, Shikoku, the Loochoo Islands, as well as Formosa,
Saghalien, Korea and the Railway Zone ceded to Japan by China
under the Convention relating to the .South Manchuria Railway.
Section Twelve. If any question shall arise concerning
the construction or performance of any part of this agree
ment or any matter connected with same, such question shall
take place in Tokyo, Japan, if the request for arbitration
arises with the Technical Advisor such arbitration shall
take place in Tokyo, Japan, if the request for arbitration
arises with the Japanese Company such arbitration shall
take place in Rahway, New Jersey. Each party shall appoint
an arbitrator, and if eigher party shall fail to appoint ita
arbitrator within thirty (30) days after notice in writing
so to do from the party desiring the arbitration, then.if
such failure is on the part of the Technical Advisor, tthe
Japanese Company shall request the Presidant of the Chamber
of Commerce of Jersey Gity, New Jersey, to appeint the second
arbitrator to represent the Technical Advisor, and if such
failure is on the part of the Japanese Company the Technical
-11-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
favisor shall request the President of the Chamber of Commei
AGREEMENT
This Agreement made this 31st day of August, 1936.
Between
NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the
State of West Virginia, in the United States
of America, having its head office at Rahway,
N. J. (hereinafter referred to as the Technical
Advisor) of the one part,
And
MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA (Mitsubishi
Electrieal Engineering Co. L.T.D.) a corporation
existing under the laws of Japan, (hereinafter referred
to as the Japanese Company) of the other part,
WITHNESSETH:
Said parties in consideration of the promises, covenants
and conditions herein contained made by them respectively, hereby
mntually agree as follows:
1- The purpose of this Agreement is to amend in some
respects and to supplement in others, and, as thus changed, to
continue the existence of, an agreement heretofore made between
the parties hereto dated June 25, 1925. All provisions of said
prior agreement, which are inconsistent herewith; are hereby
revoked. All other provisions of said prior agreement, as
amended and supplemented hereby, are hereby ratified and confirmed.
2- Said June 25, 1925 agreement,as amended and
supplemented by this Agreement, shall remain in full force and
effect for a period of 10 (ten) calendar years, commencing June 25.
1935 and ending June 24, 1945; provided, however, that either party
may terminate this Agreement on June 25, 1940, or on the 25th day
of any January or June thereafter, by giving to the other party
hereto not less than six (B) months prior written notice of the
disire to terminate.
-12-

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
3- Sa1d agreement dated June 25, 1925, as 
supplemented hereby, shall apply not only to the power
door controlling apparatus and parts thereof, mentionod in
June 25, 1925 agreement, but also to such other products
from time to time be mutually agreed upon the/identified by
parties hereto in writing. All such apparatus and parts
thereof and other products are hereinafter referred to as nch
products".
4- The territory within which the Japanese Company
shall have the exclusive right to manufacture and sell such
products, and within which such products must be used and worked,
shall include the Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencios,
and also all other territory in the Orient, except the
Philippine Islands and any territory owned or controlled by any
of the European nations.
5- The Japanese Company has represented that it has met
with very active competition in the sale of such products, which
has and may hereafter necessitate its selling such products at
reduced prices, with a consequent lowering of its margin of
profit. The Technical Advisor having full faith and confidence
in the judgement and integrity of the Japanese Company with res-
pect to the necessity for meeting said competition by reduced
selling prices of such products, and as an inducement to the
Japanese Company to maintain as large a sales volume as, posgible,
agrees to cooperate with the Japanese Company in meeting said com
petition, by accepting, whenever necessity therefor exists, the
commission mentioned in section (6) o6 said June 25, 1925
agreement at such lower rate than 10% as may bé reasonable
under the circumstances which may exist. from time to time.
6- The prisons who have executed this agreement
on behalf of the parties hereto, have been duly authorized
-13-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
for that purpose, as appears by copies of the rosolution
of the Boards of Directors of said respective Companiem.
attached hereto.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused
these presents to be executed, the day and year first
above written.
NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY
BY
Attest:
President
Secretary
MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
BY
-14-

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL PNEUMATIC COMPANY RE
RESOLVED, That Paris R. Forman, President of thi
corporation be, and he is hereby authorized and empower
in the name and on behalf of this corporation, to negotiat
enter into and execute a supplemental agreement or contraot
with Mitsubishi Denki Kabushiki Kaisha (Mitsubishi Electrical
Engineering Co. L.T.D.) for the manufacture and sale of power
operated door controlling apparatus and parts thereof and other
products, which said agreement shall contain the same or
substantially the ame convenants and conditions as are.
included, in the draft of agreement presented to this Board. on
this date, a copy of which the Secretary is hereby directed to
retain; and
BE IT FURTHER RSOLVED that Duncan A. Talbot, the
Secretary of this corporation, be and he is hereby authorized
and directed to affix this corporation's seal to such agreement
as may be signed by said president by virture of the uthority
contained in the foregoing resolution, and to attest the
signature of said president on said contract.
I, DUNCAN A. TALBOT, Secretary of National Pneumatic
Company, hereby certify that I am the duly elected, qualified and
acting Secretary of said corporation and in charge of the records
of the meetingsiof its Board of Directors; that the foregoing
is a true and ciomplete extract from the minutes of a duly coavens
meeting of the Board of Directors of said corporation held n the
13th day of August 1936 at which a quorum of the Board was present
and voted in favor thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereinto set my hand and affixed
the seal of the Corporation, this 31st day of August 1936.
Secretary of,National
Pneumatic Company
-15-

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
THIB AGREEMENT made the 28th day of November 1954
bétwoen THE WEsTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY, a corporati
organited and existing,under the laws of the State of P
vania, in the United States of America, having its head orri
at,Wilmerding, Pennsylvania, (hereinafter referred to a the
"Technical Advisor"), of the one part, and MITSUBISHI DENKI
KABUSHIKI KAISHA? (MITSUBISHI ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO., LTD.)
a corporation existing under the laws of Japan (hereinafter re-
ferred to as'the "Japanese Company"), of the other part,
W I T N E S S E T H :
WHEREAS, The Technical Advisor, by reason of certain
patents, manufacturing processes, specifications, extensive
engineering and commercial facilities, good will, etc. is in
a position to render substantial assistance to the Japanese
Company in connection with the manufacture and sale of brake
apparatus and parts, thereof,and
WHEREAS, The Japanese Company, by reason of its
facilities for manufacturing brake apparatus and parts thereof
is desirous of acquiring the right to manufacture and sell such
brake apparatus and parts thereof under the patents, and of
securing the benefits and advantages to be derived from the
manufacturing processes, technical information, assistance, and
good will of the Technical Advisor, and
WHEREAS, S. G. DOWN, Vice President of The Westinghouse
Air Brake Company, having been duly authorized by said Company
to sign this agreement on its.behalf, and
WHEREAS, G.. Kawai. Managing Director
of the Mitsubishi Denki Kabushiki Kaisha has been
duly authorized by the Japanese Company, to sign this agreement
on its behalf, and

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the agreement
when emeduted the valid, binding and legal obligation
Tochnical Advisor and the Japanese Company, respectively.
the enforcement of the performance and observance of the 
and ipulations in this ggreement.set forth have been done
and performed each on its own behalf by the Technical Advisor
and the Japanese Company, respectively, and the execution
and delivery of this agreement has In all respects been duly
authorized.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and
of the mutual promises and comenants herein.contained, it is
agreed:
Section One. This agreement relates to brake apparatus
and parts thereof, in the manufacture of which the Technical
Advisor is engaged.
Section Two. The Technical Advisor, during the term
of this agreement, will, so far  s it lawfully may, communicate
to the Japanese Company upon request all the technical and
manufacturing data and information which shall,. from time to time
be acquired or be in the possession of the Technical Advisor,
and which may be necessary for the manufacturing operation of
the Japanese Company shall only be entitled todemand and receive
from the Technical Advisor technical and manufacturing data and
information reisting solely to brake apparatus, the manufacture
of which the Japanese Company is now actually engaged in or
intends to begin forthwith after the receipt of suchdata or
information.
Whenever the Japanese Company foresees a requirement
to procedd with the manufacture of any apparatus falling withfn
the scope of this agreement, and wishes to make preparation so
that it may proveed with the manufacture, (when and as such
-2-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
mand arises and the Technical Advisor is satisfied
Japanese Company is in a position successfully'to under
manufaoture) the Technical.Advisor undertakes to communi
the Japanese Company all the technical and manufacturing
- and information necessary for such manufacture, in anticipation
of and preparatory to the actual manufacture by the Japanese
Company.
The Technical Advisor assumes no respbmsibility in
connection with such brake apparatus and parts thereof as may
be manufactured by the Japanese Company under the technical and
manufacturing data and information furnished by the Technical
Advisor.
The Technical. Advisor undertakes to give to the
Japanese Company, in accordance with the terms and provisions
of this  greement, designs,specifications and other manufac-
turing information in accordance with what is communicated by
it to its own panufacturing plants, and to give reasonable
assistance to the Japanese Company to manufacture apparatus
therefrom.
The Japanese Company shall pay to the Technical
advisor the cost to the Technical Advisor of the preparation
of all documents containing any technical and manufaeturing
data and information communicated-as aforesaid, provided that
any special or new designs or information requiring engineering
development which may, be communicated by the Technical Advisor
to the Japanese Company are to be pair for by the Japanese.
Company at'the coșt to the Technical Advisor, plus ten per cent
(l0%) of. such cost. "Engineering development", as herein used,
means supplying to the Japanese Company such manufacturing or
other engineering information as is not available in the rocor
一3一

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
of the Technical Advisor but which must be xpeetally
at the request of the Japanese Company, and also means
ment carried out by the Technical Advisor upon such requost
the furnishing of experts in connection with such manufactirin
development, by the Technical Advisor to the Japanese Company
The Technical Advisor will permit one representative
of the Japanese Company to be in 'attendance at its plant in
order to study there the methods of manufacture in respect of
which the Japanese Company shall be entitled to technical and
manufacturing date and information.
The Technical Advisor will also permit from time to
time the attendance at its works of special representatives sent
by the Japanese Company in respect of specific matters, whose
visits shall be limited to the time required te secure the
special information necessary. The Technical Advisor reserves
the right to determine the number of special representatives
that are to be sent to the works of the Technical Advisor.
The Japanese Company in respect to the representative
sent to secure information and to study in the work of the
Technical Advisor will send only much representatives as are'
prificient in-the English language.
The Japanese Company shall not communicate to any
third party without the consent of the Technical Advisor first
had and obtained in writing any technical or manufacturing data
or any information given to or obtained by the Japanese Company,
as afbresaid.
Section Three. The Technical Advisor, so far as it
lawfully may, gpants and agrees to grant to the Japanese Gompany
subject to the provisions of this agreement, a license to manu-
facture in the Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencies,
the State of Manchukuo, and not elsewhere, and to.manufaeture

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
and sell in the Empire of Japan, its colonies and depend
the State of Manchukuo, and net eloewhere, apparatus so
factured by it. under any and all existing patents of the
of Japan, its colonies and dependencies, and the State.of
Manchukuo, which the Technical Advisor now owns or is entitled
to, and any and all patents takes out or acquired by the Tech-
nical Advisor, or to which they may become entitled during the
term of this agreement. The rights and licenses granted or to
be granted under the provisions of this section are not to be
assigned nor are sub-licenses to be granted in respect thereof
without the consent of the Technical Advisor first had and
obtained in writing.
The license gratted by this section is exclusive
except for the following reservations:-
(A) To the right to the Technical Advisor to
grant license to manufacture, use
and sell, the apparatus referred to in
this agreement to the Kabushiki Kaisha
Kobe Seikosh, or to its successor (or
to such company whose capital stock is
wholly owned or substantially owned by
the Kabushiki Kaisha Kobe Seikosho).
It is understood that the license,
referred to in section A will be granted to
but one of the company mentioned, at
any one time.
(B)
Upon request the Technical Advisor may
sell to the Japanese Company or to the
Kabushiki Kaisha Kobe Seikosho for use
in the Territories herein ceded to the
Japanese Company, any and all apparatus
coming within the scope of this agreement.
Thé following exception is recognized
even when no request is made for such
apparatus by the Japanese Company.
When Westinghouse American made goods
are demanded by the purchase; however the
Technical Advisor agrees to inform the
Japanese Company of such request.
Sectioh Four.
The Technical Advisor will to the
-5-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
extent to which the state of its engineering persomal
mits, and having due regard to the requirements of it
business, when from time to time requested by the Japan
Company, send to Japan and keep stationed with the latter,
fully qualified engineers whose services,may be needed by
the Japmnese Company to assist it in the manufacture of
apparatus falling within the scope of this agreement. In
such cases travelling expenses and allowanees, as well às
the salaries of such engineers shall be paid by the Japanese'
Company.
Section Fiwe. The Japanese Company will not at any
time sell or supply any apparatus coming within the scope of
this agreement made 'partly or wholly under information, speci-
fication's or drawings obtained from the Technical Advisor,
except to persons; firms or companies carrying on businese in
the Empire of Japan, it colonies anddependencies, and the
State of Manchukuo, and to Government or Muhicipal bodies within
the said territory, and only for the purpose of being used or
worked therein.
Section Six. The Japanese Company and the Nippon Air
Brake Company will during the terms of this agreement, jointly
assume the expenses involved in the maintenance of existing
Patents and Utility Models in Japan of the Technical Advisor
including. taxes and renewal fees, and the expenses involved, in.
the filing of patent applications and Utility Medels in Japan in
the name of the Technical Advisor and the maintenance of any
Patents and Utility Models which may be Issued. thereon: it being
und'erstood, however,, that the Japanese Company and the Nippom.Air
Brake Company reserve the right to determine what existing Patents
and Utility Models of the Technical Advisor shall, be maintained
一6

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
in force and to determine what patent applications and Uti
Models of the Technical Advisor shall hereafter be filed
Japan and the State of Manchukuo: it is further understood
that in the event the Japanese Company and the Nippon ir Bra
Company Advise the Technical Advisor that they do not wish to
maintain designated Patents, or utility Yodels in force'and do
not deem it advisable.to file patent applications and Utility
Models in Japan on Patent applications and Utility Models
hereafter submitted by the Technical Advisor during the term of
this agreement then the Tehnical Advisor reserves the right.to
itself maintain in force at its own xpense such Patents and
Utility Models, and to'file at its own expense applications for
Patents and Utility Models, it being understood that such patents
as are maintained by the Technical Advisor do not fall within the
scope of this agreement, and therefore should the Japanese Company
and the Nippon Air Brake Company desire to employ same at a later
date, this may be arranged for by subsequent agreement between
the parties.
Suction Meven. In consideration of the rights and
.licenses herein gra ted to it, and without further consideration
from the Technical Advisor, the Japanese Company will, during
the term of this agreement remunerate the Technical Advisor as
follows:
(A)
 No commissións shall be paid by the Japanese
company on Air brake material supplied to the Imperial
Gover ment Railways of Japan, Taiwan Government Rail
ways, nd. to Chosen Government Railways, except on
such items as re covered by Patents, Patent applica-
tions, or Utility Models of the Technical Advisorl
(B)... On Air Brake material sold to the Imperial Govern-
ment Railways, Taiwan Government Railways, or Chosen

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
Government Railways, wherein the material is cov
by Patents, Patent Applications or Utility Models or
the Technical 'Advisor,,the Japanese Company will pay
to the Technical Advisor an amount in American money
equal to seven and one-half (71%) per cent of the
selling price, F. O. B. factory.
(0)
On all Air Brake material sold to others than tho
mentioned in A and B above, the 'Japanese Company will
pay to the Technical Advisor in Americal money an
amount, equal to five (5%) per cent of the selling
price F. O. B. Factory.
Payment of the above amounts to .e made to the
Technical Advisor at its principal office at Wilmerding, Ponn-
sylvania, and in semi-annual installments, and on or before the
thirtieth day of July and January of each year from the date of
this agreement.
Section Eight. The Japanese company agrees, that unless
the consent in writing of the Technical Advisor is firt
obtained, it will nat make any use of the name "Westinghouse"
nor will it make any use of the trademarks, tradenames or monog
of the Technical Advisor, or any imitation thereof, during the
term of this agreement, or thereafter, either as a part of its
corporate or firm name or otherwise, except that the Japanese
Company may state, during the continuance of this agreement,
subject to the approval of the Technical Advisor as to the form
in which the same shall be done, that the brake apparatus and
parts thereof, the subject of this agreement, are mede by it
under license from and in accordance with the designs and tech-
nical information furnished by the Technical Advisor, and the
Japanese Company will, upon 'the request of the Technical Aditlsor

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
further affix to all such brake apparatus or material mul
notice satisfactory to the Technical Advisor, to indie
fact of such licenses and the espective patents invol
Section Nane. The Japanese Company undertakes that
it will not after the execution of this agreement, make agre
ments with other manufacturers to manufacture brake apparatus
or parts thereof coming within the scope of this agreement of
such other manufacturers' bypes or designs other than the
Japanese Company's own or that of the Technical Advisor: nor
will the Japanese Company seek the advice or endeavor to obtain
manufacturing or other engineering information from any other
manufacturer in regard to the appratus falling within the scope
of this agreement, or in regard to the execution of ordeers of
certain specific types or designs placed with the Japanese Com-
pany by the Japanese Government.
Section Ten. Subject to prior termination of this
agreement by mutual consent, this agreement shall be effective
September fifth, 1934. and shall remain in force for ten (10)
years from September fifth, 1934, and from year to year there-
after until terminated by not less than six months' notice in
writing goven by either party to the other, such notice to be
delivered six months prior to September fifth, 1944, or six
mont s prior to September fifth of any subsequent year, neither
this agreement nor a y rights thereunder can be assigned or
transferred by either party to a third party without the expross
consent of the other party first had and obtained in writing.
Section Eleven. It is lunderstood and agreed that the
Technical Advisor will not communicate to the Japanese Company
any information as to the processes which may be the property
of the United States Government: or processes or patents in
-9

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
regard to which the United States Government has placed
injunetion on the right to communicate to others: or pr
patents acquired without the rights of communication thereo
Section Twelve. All potices provided for in. this agreem
shall be in writing and may be given by personal delivery or
registered mail addressed to the Technical Advisor at Wilmording,
State of Pennsylvania, United States of America and by personal
delivery or registered main addressed to the Japanese Company at
No. 4 Nichome, Marunouchi, Kojimachi-ku, Takyo, Japan.
Section Thirteen: Wherever in this agreement the terms:
"Empire of Japan, ts colonies and dependencies" is used, it shall
be understood to mean Japan proper, including Hokkaido, Kyuahu,
Shikoku, the Loochoo Islands, as well as ormosa, Saghalien, kor
and the Railway Zone ceded to Japan by China under the Convention
relating to the South Manchuraa Railway.
Section Fourteen. If any question shallarise concerning the
construction or performance of any part of this agreement or any
matter connected with same, such question shall be ddcided by
arbitration. If the request for arbitratión arises with the
Technical Advisor such arbitration shall take place in Tokyo, Japan,
if the request for arbitration arises with the Japanese Company
such arbitration shall take place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Each party shall appoint an arbitrator, and if either parjy shall
fail to appoint its arbitratór within thirty (3o) days after notic
in writing so to do from the party desiring the arbitration, then
if such failure is on the part of the Technical Advisor, the Japanome
Company shall request the President of the Chamber of Commerce of
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to appoint the second arbitrator to
represent the Technical Advisor, and if such failure is on the part
-10

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
of the Japanese Company, the Technical Advisor shall
Prosident of the Chamber of Commerce of Tokyo to appoint
secondargitrator to represent the Japanese Compmby. In
of failure or refusal of the Presidant of the Chamber of
of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, or of the President of the Che
of Commerce of Tokyo as the case may be, to name such socon
arbitrator within thirty (30) days after receipt of a requost o
to do, the first arbitrator selected may select the second arbita
The two arbitrators selected as aforesaid, shall within sixty (60)
days designate a third mrbitrator of umpire.
The three arbitrators shall within two months after the
selection of the third arbitrator or umpire, as herein provided,
meet and hear'the matters submitted to them and shall give each
party reasonable notice of the time and place of such motting.
After hearing both parties and taking such testimony or making
investigation as they may deem necessary, they shall within six,(6)
months after their irst meeting make their award in writing upon
the questions so submitted to them, including the division of the
expenses of the arbitration, and shall serve a copy of such award
upon each party. The award of a majority of such arbitrators shall
be final and binding upon both parties and each shall promptly
conform thereto.
Section Fifteen. The interpretation, the effect of this
agreement and all rights and obligations arising thereunder phall
be governed by the laws of that state or country, which by the
principles enunciated in decisions of the Court of Appeals of the
State of Pennsylvania is the law applicable thereto, and in the
event that according to the principles contained in the foregoing
decisons the law of Japan is the prop r law governing any queetiei
t
Frecicef

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.92)
at issue but according to the principles of the law of Japan,
the law of Japan in its turn hold that the question at issuo
is governed by the law of the State of Pennsylvania or any
law other than that of Japan, then the law of the State of
Pennsylvania shall govern.
IN WITNECs sREeF, the parties hereto have caused thes
presents to be executed n behalf of Mitsubishi Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha in the City of Tokyo, Japan, this 2oth day of November
1934.
TTSUBISHI DNYI KABUSHIKI KAISHA
By
and on behalf of the Weslinghouse Air Brake Company, in the
Borough of lmerding, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., this 4th day
of January, 1935.
一
WESTTNCHOHEE ATP BRAKE CMPANY
1
By
1
-12

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
THIS AGREEMENT MADE the fifth day of Septembea 192
between the WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY, a corPorati
organized and existing under the laws of the State of P
in the United States of America, having its head ,offio at
Wilmerding, Pennsylvania (hereinafter referred to as the Techmib
Advisor"), of the one part, and MITSUBISHI DENKI KABUSHIKI KAIBHA
(MITSUBISHI ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO. LTD.) a corporation exiBti
under the laws of Japan (hereinafter referred to as the Japano
Company") of the other part:
WI T NES S ET H :
WHEREAS, the Technical Advisor, by reason of certain
patents, manufacturing processes, specifications, extensive
engineering and commercial facilities, good will, etc., is in
a position to render substantial assistance to the Japanese
Company in connection with the manufacture and sale of brake
apparatus,and parts, thereof, and
WHEREAS, the Japanese Company, by reason of its
facilities for manufacturing brake apparatus and parts
thereof is desirous of acquiring the right to manufacture and
sell such brake apparatus and parts thereof under the patents,
and good will of the Technical Advisor, and
WHEREAS, S. G. Down Vice President of the Westing-
house Air Brake Company, having been duly authorized by said
Company to sign this agreement on its behalf, and
WHEREAS, HIDEO TADEDA, Chairman of the Board of
Directors of the Mitsubishi Denki Kabushiki Kaisha has been
-duly authorized by the Japanese Company, to sign this agree-
ment on its behalf, and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make the
agreement when executed the valid, binding and legal oblig-
-13-

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
ation of the Teshnical Advisor and the Jap
respectively, for the enforcement of the performanow
observance of the covenants and stipulations in this.
ment set of forth have been done and performed each on its
behalf by the Technical Advisor -and the Japanese Company.
respectively, and the execution and delivery of this agroe-
ment has in all respects been duly anthorized.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises
and of the mutual promises and covenants herein contained,
it is, agreed:
SECTION ONE. This agreement relates to brake
apparatus and parts thereof, in the manufacture of which the
Technical Advisor,is engaged.
Section Two. The Technical Advisor, during the
term of this agreement, will, so far as it lawfully way,
communicate to the Japanese Company upon request all the
technical and manufacturing data and information which shall.
from time to time be acquired or be in the possession of the
Technical Advisor, and which may be necessary for the mann-
facturing operations -of the .Japanese Company in connoction
with the apparatus coming within the scope of this agreement.
It is the intent that the Japanese Company shall only be entirt
to demand and receive from the Technical Advisor technical
and manufacturing data and information relating solely to brake
apparatus, the manufacture of which the Japanese Company is now
actually engaged in or intends to begin forthwith after the
receipt of such data or information.
Whenever the Japanese Company forceses a requirement
to proceed with the manufacture of any apparatus falling
within the scope of this agreement, and wishes to make
preparation so that it may proceed with the manufacture
(when and as such demand arises and the Tochnical Adkieor

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
timfied that the Japanese Company is in & posit
successfully to undertake such-manufacture) the Tochn
Advisor undertakes to communicate to the Japanese Co
all the technical and manufacturing data and information
necessary for such manufacture, in anticipation of and
preparatory to the actual manufacture by the Japanese Company
The Technical Advisor assumes no responsibility
in connection with such brake apparatus and parts thereof
as may be manufactured by the Japanese Company under the teeh-
nical and manufacturing data and information furnished by the
Technical Advisor.
The Technical Advisor undertakes to give to the
Japanese Company, in accordance with the terms and provision
of this agreement,designs, specifications and other manu-
facturing information in accordance with what is communicato
by it to its own manufacturing plants, and to give reasonable
assistance to the Japanese Company to manufacture apparatus
therefrom.
The Japanese Company shall pay to the Technical
Advisor the cost to the Technical Advisor of the preparation
of all documents containing any technical and manufacturing
data and information communicated as aforesaid, provided
that any spedial or new designs or information requiring
engineering devèlopment which may be communicated by the
Technical Advisor to the Japanese Company are to be paid for
by the Japanese Company at the cost to the Technical Advisor.
plus ten percent (l0%) of such c'ost. "Engineering Development
as herein used, means supplying to the Japanese Company such
manufacturing or other engineering information as is not
available in the records of the Technical .Advisor but which
一.15-

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
must be especially prepared at the request of the Japanese
Company, and also means development carried out by the
Technical Advisor upon such request and the furnishing of
experts in connection with such manufacturing development,
by the Technical Advisor to the Japanese Company.
The Technical Advisor will permit one representative
of the Japanese Company to be in attendance at its plant
1.
in order to study there the methods of manufacture in respect
of which the Japanese Company shall be entitled to technical
and manufacturing data and information.
The Technical Advisor will also permit from tine to
time the attendance at its works of special representatives
sent by. the Japanese Company in re: pect of specific matters,
whosd visits shall be limited to the time required to secure the
special information necessary. The Technical Advispr reserves
the right to determine the number of special representatives that
are to be sent to the woras of the Technical Advisor.
The Japanese Company in respect of the representative
sent to secure information and to study in the works of the
Technical Advisor will send only such representative as are
proficient in the English language.
The Japanese Company shall not communicate to
any third party without the cansent of the Technical Advisor
first had and obtained in writing any technical or manufact-
uring data or any information given to or obtained by the
Japanese Conpany as aforesaid.
Section Three. The Technical Advisor, so far as
it lawfully may, grants and agrees.to grant to the Japanese
Company subject to the provisions of this agreement, a licedse
to manufacture in the Empire of Japan, its colonies and
-16-

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
dependencies, and not el'esewhere, and to i
in the Empire of Japan. its colonies and dependenel
eleewhere, apparatus so.manufactured by under any and all
existing patents of the Empire of Japan, its colonies
dependences, which the Technical Advisor nów owns or is
entitled tb, and any and all patents taken out or acquired
by the Technical Advisor, or to. which they may become entitle
during the term of this agreement, The rights and licenges
granted or to be granted under the provisions of this seotion
are not to be as igned nor are sub-licenses to be granted in
respect thereof without the consent of the Technical Advisor
first had and obtained in writing.
The license granted by this section is exclusive
except for the following reservations:-
(A) To the right to the Technical Advisor to
grant a license to manufacture, use
and sell, the apparatus referred to in
this agreement to the Kabushiki Kaisha
Kobe Seikosho, or to its successor (or
to such .company whose capital stock is
wholly owmed or substantially owned by
the Kabushiki Kaisha Kobe Seikosho).
It is understood that the license,
referred to in section A will be granted to
but one of the company mentioned, at
any one time.
(B) Upbn request the Technical Advisor máy
sell to the Japanese Company or to the
Kabashiki Kaisha Kobe Seikosho for use
in theterritories herein ceded to the
Japanese Company, any and' all apparatus
coming within the. scope of this agreement.
The following exception is recognized
even when no request is made for such
apparabus by the Japanese Company
When Westigghóuse American made: goods
are demanded by the purchase; however the
Technical Advisor  agrees to inform the
Japanese Company of such request
Section Four.
The Technical Advisor will to the

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
axthat to which the state of its engineesing p
and having due regard to the requirements of its
when from time to time requested by the Japanese Comp
Japan and keep stationed with the latter, fully qumlifi
gineers whose services may be'needed by the Japanese C
to assist it in the manufacture of apparatus falling within
the scope of this agreement. In such cases travelling ep
and allowances, as whel as the salaries of such engineers mhall
be, apid by the Japanese Company.
Section Five. The Japanese Company will not at
any time sell or supply any apparatus coming within the scope
of this agreement made partly or wholly únder information,
specifications or drawings obtained from the Technical Advisor
except to persons, firms or companies carrying on business
in the Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencies, and to
Government or Municipal bodies within the said territory, and
only for the purpose of being used or worked therein.
Section Six. The Technical Advisor will durfing the
term of this agreement apply for and maintain patents in Japen
-on such inventions as the Technical Advisor may be entitled to
when, in the opinion of the Technical Advisor,msuchsinwemtion
are of sufficient importance to be govered by patents for the
protection of the rights of the Technical Advisor and the interest
of 'the Japanese Company under this agreement.
SECTION SEVEN. In consideration of the rights and
licenses herein granted to it, and without further consideration
from the Technical Advisor, the Japanese company will, following
the signing of this agreement, pay to the Technical Advisor
an amount in American, money equal to ten percent. (10%) of the
selling price, F.O.B. factory, of all brake, apparatus and parts
manufactured and sold by the Japanese, Company, payment to be
-18

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
sade te the Technical Advimor at its principal orfl
Fennsylvania, and in semi-annual installments, and
thirtieth day of July and January of each year from the
this agreement. The Japanese Company agrees to estabkiah
set of books to record brake orders and shipments and to
to the Technical Advisor semi-annual statements during the
'of May and November of each year, setting forth the sales of
brake apparatus and parts thereof during the proceeding six
months, and further agrees that the books of account shall b
open to inspection by a duly accredited representative of the
Technical Advisor at reasonable and proper intervals.
Section Eight. The Japanese Company agrees, that unloss
the consent in writing of the Technical Advisor is first obtal
it will not make any use of the name "Westinghouse" nor will it
make any use of the trademarks, radenames of monograms of the
Technical Advisor, or any imitation thereaf, during the torm of
this agreement, or thereafter, either as a part of i s coroperat
or firm name. or otherwise, except the Japanese Company may
state, during the continuance of this agreement, subjectito the
approval of the Technical Advisor as to the form in which the
same shall be done, that the brake apparatus and parta theroof,
. the subject of this agreement, are made by it under licens
from and inaaccordance with the designs, and technical infomation
furnished by the Technical Advisor, and the Japanese Company
will, upon the request of the Technical Advisor, further effix
to all such brake apparatus or material suitable notices
satisfactory to the Technical Advisor, to Indicate the fact of
such licenses and the respective patents involved.
Section Nine. The Japanese Company under takes that
it will not after the execution of this agreement, (make
ments with other manufactures to manufacture brake appar
-19

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
or parts thereof coming within the scope of this
of such other mamufacturers' types' or designs other
Japanese Company's own or that of the Technical Advimor,
will the Japanese Company seek the advice or endeavour to
obtain manufacturing or other engineering information from
any other manufacturer in regard to the apparatus falling
within the scope of this agreement or inregard to the exocut
of orders of certain specific types or designs plaxed with the
Japanese Company by the Japanese Government.
Section Ten. Subject to prior termination of thi
agreement by mutual consent, this agreement shall remain in
force for ten (l0) years from the date hereof, and from year
to year thereafter until, terminated by not less than six
months' notice in writing goven by either party to the other
such notice to be delivered six months prior to September
fifth 1934, or on September fifth of any subsequent year,
neither this agreement nor any rights thereunder can be
assigned or transferred by either party to a third party
without the express consent of the other party first had and
obtained in writing.
Section Eleven. It is understood and agreed that the
Technical Advisor will not communicate to the Japanese Company
any information as to the proceses which may be the property
of the United States Government: or processes or patents in
regard to which the United States Government has placed in-
junction on the right to communicate to others: or processe
or patents acquired without the rights of communication thereof
Section Twelve. All notices provided for in this
agreement shall be in, writing and may be given by porsonal
delivery or registered mail addressed to the Technical Advisor
at Wilmerding, State of Pennsylvania, United States of Ameri

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
by personal delivery or registered mail addressed to
company at No. 1 Itchome, Yaesucho, Kogimachi-ku, Toky
Section Thirteen. Wherever in this agreement the
terms: Empire of Japan, its colonies and dependencies i
used, it shall be understood to mean Japan proper, including
Hokkaido, Kyushu, Shikoku, the Loochoo Islands, as well as
Formosa, Saghalien, Korea and the Railway Zone ceded to Japan
by China under the Covention relating to the South Manchuria
Railway.
Section Fourteen. If any question shall arise concern-
ing the construction or performance of any part of this agree-
ment or any matter connected with same, such question shall be
decided by arbitration. If the request for arbitration arises
with the Technical Advisor such arbitration shall take place
in Tokyo, Japan, if the request for arbitration arises with
the Japanese Company such argitration shall appoint an
arbitrator, and if either party shall fail to appoint its
arbitrator within thirty (30) days after notice in writing
so to do from the party desiring the arbitration, then if
such failure is on the part of the Technical Advisor, the
Japanese Company shall request the President of the Chamber
of Commerce of Ptttsburgh, Pennsylvania, to appoint the
second arbitrator to represent the Technical Advisor, and
if such failure is on the part of the Japanese Company
the Technical Advisor shall request the President of the
Chamber of Commerce of Tokyo to appoint the second arbitrator
to represent the Japanese Company. In the event of failure
or refusal of the President of the Chamber of Commerce of
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, or of the President of the Chamber
of Commerce of Tokyo as the case may be, to same such
一21-

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
tor within thirty (30) days after
so to do, the first arbitrator selected
melect the second arbitrator. The two arbitrators sel
as aforesaid, shall within sixty (60) days designate a third
arbitrator.or umpire.
The three arbitrators shall within two months after
the selection of the third arbitrator or umpire, as herein
provided, meet and hear the matters submitted to them
and shall given each party reasonable notice of the time and
place of such meeting. After hearing both parties and taking
such testimony or making such investigation as they may deem
necessary, they shall within six (6) months after their first
meeting make theiraward in writing upon the question so sub-
mitted to them, including the division of the expenses of
the arbitration, and shall serve a copy of.such award upon
each party. The award of a majority of such arbitrators shall
be final and binding upon both parties and each shall promptly
conform thereto.
Section Fifteen. The interpretation, the effedt
of this agreement and all rights and obligation arising thereunder
shall be governed by the law of that state of country, which
by the principles enunciated in decisions of the Court of
Appeals of the State of Pennsylvania is the law applicable thoreto,
and in the event that according to the principles contained in the
foregoing decisions the law of Japan is the proper law governing
any question at issue. but according to the principles of the law
of Japan, the law of Japan in its turn hold that the question at
issue is governed by the law of the State of Pennsylvania or any law
other than that of Japan, then the law of the State
of Pennsylvania shall govern.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have
-22 -

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
cased these presents to be executed this fifth day of
September 1924, in the City of Tokyo, Japan.
WHSTTHGHOUSE AIR BRAKE COMPANY
By
V:ce-Presidnet
NTTSUBISHI JENKT EAPUSHIKI KAISHA
By
Chairman of the Board of Directors.
-23-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
MMORANDUN OF AGREKMENT entered into this A
r eme thousand nine hundred and thirty
BETWEEN-
ROBERT MACGREGOR AND MACGREGOR & KING LIMITED Doth 
No.5 Lloyd's Avenue, London, England jointly and severally
(hereinafter called the "Vendors" ) of the first part: AND
MITSUBIS I ZOSEN KABUSHIKI MAI HA whose registered offiee i
situated in the City of Tokyo, Japan (hereinafter called
the "Purehasers') of the second part:
WHEREAS the Vendors are the exclusive owners severally and
jointly of certain inventions and Letters Patents relating
to Harah Covers for shipe in the United ingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and whereas the invention is
'inter alia' patented in the Empire of Japn under Patent
No: 86,963 dated 31st May 1930.
AND WHEREAS the Vendors have agreed to s ell and the
Purohasers ave agreed to acquire the Patent Rightson the
said iatoh Cover:
NOW THIS AGREEMENT NI TNLSSTH:
Clause 1. The Vendors shall sell enå the Purohasers shall purehase
Japanese Letters Patent No: 86,963 dated 31st May 1930 relating to
improvemen ts in Hatch Govers for ships and all rights and privileges
and advantages belonging thereto wi th the benefits of all improve-
ments thereon as far as relate to the Enpire of Japan its Colonies
and DOpendoneies For the sum of TWO THOUSAD FIVE UNDRED POUNDS
STERLING (f.2,500) payable on signing this contract.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
Immediately upon signing this agreement
jute a proper assignment of the said Letters Patent ia favees
Purehasers, and furthermore proper assignments of all impreve
ments in so far as they relate to the Empire of Japan will be maés
by the Vendors i mediately such improvements are made or aequired
by them whether they shall be patented or not.
Clause 3.
The Purchasers shall pay all renewal fees to maintain
the said Patent and on all Japanese Patents in respect of improve-
ments on the invention disclosed in the saidsJapanese Patent and
shall effeotively wotk the inventions in compliance with the
Japanese Patent Laws.
Should the Purchasers for any reason decide not to pay
the renewal fees on the Patent or any future patents or to effeetually
work the invention, the undertake to give due notice to the Vondos
of auch intention, who will again enter into possession of such
Patents and have fower to dis pose of it as they thinkrit.
Clause 4. In case of infringe ent of the Patent or Patents by
other parties in the Empire of Japan the Purohasers are required to
take all legal and other steps necessary to prevent such infringement
wi thout delay. The Vendors shall render such assistance as they
are a ble in such case.
Clause 5.
So long as the Letters Patent or Patents remeins or
remain in force in the Empire of Japan and are in the sole possession
of the Purchasers, they undertake to pay the Vendors the sum of
SIXPENCE (6d) per square foot royalty on all hatch covers mnufactured
and fitted by then in accordance with the said Letters Patent.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
Such royelty shall be paid twéce per year to the Vendé
month ealaulated from lst June and lst December, and shall
all hatch covers manufactured and fitted in the preeedime
Clayse 6. Immediately on signing this agreement the Ven
take to supply free of charge to the Purohasers all detail
and technical information to enable the: to undertake the demi
manufacture and fitting of the ha tch: covers, and also will mo lon
as soyalty is pa yable under the terms hereof prepare and make demi
of any pro ject which the Purohasers may require without any ohar
to the Purohasers.
Clause 7. All improvements and pa tents which the Vendors may
or aoquire in onnection with the hatch cover the subjeot of this
agreement shall be conmunicated to and made available exelusively
to the Purohasers 1 mediately they are made or aequired, and the
Vendors undertake to give prqctical training to the representatives
of the Purchasers should this be found necessary or desirable at
any time.
As WITNESS the hand and seal of Robert Maegreger and
Common Seal of Macgregor and ring Limited and Mitsubishi Zomon
Kabushiki Kai sha.
Signed sealed and delivered by)
the said Robert acgregor in
Robert Maogregor.
the presence of H.R. Athinson
57 The Grove
Vauxhall, S.W.
Clerk
7à Sq

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
She Gemmon Seal ef Maegregor &
King Limited was hereto
CigU:
kffixed in the presence of
Signature' C.W. King, Director.
Robert Macgregor, Direetor.
The Common Seal of Mitsubishi
10
Zosen Kabushiki Kai sha was
hereunto affixed in the
presence of
K. Sh1be
Managing
Director.
Signature
WITNESS:- K. GOKO
Director.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
THIS AGREEMENT made the first
day of Ostobee
Qne Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirtyseven BY and BETwEEN BO0I
ANONYME ADOLPHE SAURER whose registered office is situate in Amben
Switserland (hereinafter called the "Licensors") of the one part n
MITSUBISHI JUKOGYO KABUSHIKI KAISHA whose registered office is it
in Tokyo Japan (hereinafter called the "Licensees") of the other part.
W H E R E A S the said Societe Anonyme Adolphe Saurer have
invented and are the owners of various details of construe-
tion and appliances relating to Intermal Combustion Engines
on which they have sedured patent protection in Japan a
mentioned hereinafter:
AND W H E R E A S the Lcensees are desirous of taking advan-
tage of the aid inventions as well as of the Licensors
unpatented experience resulting from the Licensors' technical
development during many years and embodied in the Licensors
present drawings and constructions and manufacture of Internal
Combustion Engines have agreed to accept and the Licensors
have agreed to grant the Licensees the rights hereinafter specified
upon the terms and subject to the covenants and conditions
hereinafter contained:
IT IS HEREBY MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article1.
The Licensors hereoy grant to the Licensees a sole and
exclusive License and authority to manufacture anywhere in Japan its
Colonies and Protectorates and Territories under Mandate as woll as
in the State of Manchoukuo (hereinafter referred to as the Presribed
Territories") all the Licensors' present and future types of Internal
Combustion Engines (hereinafter referred to as the "Engines") for the
equipment of
Road Vohicles for the transportation of people and reight
Rail Traction Vehicles
Marine purposes
Stationary and Semi-Stationary Piants
and in general for any and all applications of the

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Engines both for land and marine uses.
The use of the ngines on or for the equipment of air-
planes or morial machines of any description is not included.
The Licensors also grant to the Licensees the ole and
exclusive selling rights in the Prescribed Territories on all the
Enginos with the exception for any and all applications of light
motors that is of engines for he equipment of passenger vehicles
(including taxi-cabs) up to eight seats not including the driver
and for the equipment of light trucks up to lt tons paying load
for which the selling rights hereby conferred are on a non-exclusive
basis.
This License also includes exclusive manufacturing rights
and exèlusive selling rights in the Prescribed Territories on piece
parts and spare parts for the Engi es in question with the same
exceptions as hereabove concerning the Engines.
Article2.
The Licensors agree to place at the disposal of the Lecen-
sees all their present and future designs pertaining to the Engines
together with all improvements and new developments whether those
designs improvements and new devekopments are patented or not pro-
vided that such improvements nd new developments are embodied in
the Engines as commercially produced and sold by the Licensors.
Within threemonths after signing this Agreement the
Licensors shall hand over to the Licensees at Licensors net cost
either y post directly in Japan or through Licensees representa-
tives in Eurppe indicated by them and at the Licensors' risk two
sets (one copiable) of all shop drawings and further information
pertaining to the manufacture of six types of engines of which com-
mercial production is going on in the Licensors' Works at the date
hereof. The sets of drawings will include the parts and assembly
designs and the information will include the corresponding lists
of material calculations operation sheets and drawings and all
other necessary data information and advice so as to enable the
Licensees to manufacture the Engines and parts thereof comered by
this Agreement. The six types of Engines hereabove referred to
will be specified by the Licensees on the signature of this Agree-
ment and the drawngs and information pertaining to the further
types of Engines now manufactured by the Licensors will be handed

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
一3一
over on the same terms on request from the Licensees withim 
able time after such request has been received.
During the continuance of this Agreement the Liceneems
will supply whenver so requested by the Licensees any drawings 
Engines at the actual cost of blue prints.
The above undertakings by the Licensors do no mefer to
drawings of Engines or their component parts or elements which
based upon patents of a third party and whieh the Licensors are
not authorized to use in the prescribed Territories. In sush eases
the Licensors shall on request assist and advise the Licensees
with a view to the Licensees' acquiring the rightsto the use of
such patents on the most favousable terms and conditionsavailable.
Neither does the abore undertaking refer to improvements
or new designs or developmentswwhich being Government's property
cannot be communicated to foreign countries.
Article3.
The Licensors bind themselves to maintain in their shops
during the continuance of this Agreement commercial produstion of
Engines for the uses enumerated in Art. 1 hereof and to maintain
furthermore a research department capable of developing the diffe-
rent designs included in this License Agreement and ofcreating
new types in these fields.
All Improvements and new development made or acquired
(except as stipulated in Art. 2 al. 4 and 3 hereof) by the Licensors
in regard to the Engines shall be communicated (at the net sost
of copies of drawings) to the Licensees without delay as stipulated
in Art. 2 al. 1 hereof for the Licensees' use under this License.
together with adequate information necessary to enable the Lieen
sees to put such improvements and new developments into practio
forthwith.
The Licensers will submit to the Licensees every half-
year on lst July and lst January during the continuance of this
Agreement a report giving full information regarding the process
and trend of their investigations experiments and develepmtns on
the Engines and parts covered by this ▲greement.
The Licensees will inform the Licensors of all improve
ments and new developments whether patented or not which may be
made by them or their employees in connection with the Engines.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
ings) shall be made for eommunieating sueh informaties.
from this prevision are improvements or new designs er de
which cannot be communieated to foreign countries by order ef 
Government. The Licensors have the right to dispose of sueh im
formation and drewings transmitted by the Licensees at their
diseretion and especially to make same known to their other lieem-
Article4
The Licensors bind themselves to assist the Lisensees by
placing at the disposal of the latter all their experienee in
organizing the manufacture selecting machine tools equipment md
personnel and to help in ganeral in any other problem of technieal
or commercial nature such as might arise in exploiting the present
Lieense Agreement.
The Licensors will furnish to the Licensees at  cost
of copies drawings of tools jigs gauges and fixtures developed for
their own use such as are necessary for the manufactuse of the
Engines provided that such drawings are in existence. For in
manufacture undertaken by the Licensees the Licensors will furnith
on request at net cost a complete set of gauges accompanied by
the necessary instructions to insure thetr proper use.
The contracting parties henceforth will communicate to
each other free of charge their manufacturing methods and technieal
experience developed in the production of the Engines. They will
also furnish upon request at net cost of the copies assembly
drawings of tools and fixtures which are used for the manufesture
in quostion.
Artic1o5.
Boon after the signature of this Agreement the Licensors
will permit not more than five engineers and not more than ten
workmen of the Licensees duly introduced by them to undertake a
course of study in their technical offices and those parts of
their works where the designing and manufacture of the Ingines
are carrid out for not more than three month each and the Licen-
sore undertake to give such engineers and workmen a thorough
training in order to enable them to become familiar with the pro-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
duetion in question.
The Lisensees shall also have the right to send to the
Drewing Offises Research Department and Works of the Licenscrs
from time to time during the continuance of this Agreement after
due notice being given in writing to the Licensors and with the
Licensors' assent members of their engineering staff (not more
than three at a time) for further study should difficulties be
met with in the design and manufacture of the Engines or should
the Licensees desire to study improvements or new developments.
The Lieensors undertake to give the training and in
struction referred to in the last two preceding paragraphs free
of charge to the engineers and wrkmen who be sent by t by the
Licensees to the Licensors' Works with the exception however that
should any of the engineers or workmen sent by the Licensees in
accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article memain longer than
the delay provided for the Licensees will pay the Licensors an
allowance to be agreed between the parties.
The Licensors will send upon request their fully quali-
fied and responsible engineers to the Works of the Licensees for
the purpose of imparting knowledge and giving assistance and
instruction to the Licensees' engineers the expenses including
salaries travelling out-of-poeket and other expenses of such 
structor or instructors to be paid by the Licensees such expenses
and their remittance to be arranged each time.
Article6.
The Licensors will on the request of the Licensees take
up the study - and if especially required experiments - on new
designs which may be proposed by the Licensees relating to the
Engines and which the Licensees themselves do not want to carry out.
The costs of such studies and experiments shall be paid for by the
Licensees on terms to be mutually arranged.
Any such constructions so studied by the Licensors shall
become their property and they will be free to exploit them for
their own account or to make same known to their other licensees.
The Licensors in communicating such constructions to their other
licensees shall grant the Licensees an appropriate refund. In view
of this possibility therefore the parties nereto will before such
studies are commenced agree upon the rate and the way of calculat-

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
一6-
ing sueh repeyment.
rticle7e
The Licensors shall take out at their own diseretien and
expense such patents as they see fit and are entitled to expleit
such patents anywhere except in the prescribed Territories with the
reservation however that this undertaking dose not restrict in any
way the non-exclusive selling rights of the licensors or their ether
licensees as stipulated in Art. 1 paragraphs 2 - and 3 hereef.
The Lieensees lickewise shall take out at their own dis
cretion and expense such patents as they think fit and will grant
to the Licensors and their other licensees the free use of such
patents anywhere except in the prescriged Territories with the re-
servation however that nothing in this clanse shall prevent either
the Licensors or their other licensees from exploiting the non-
exelusive selling rights as stipulated in Art. 1 paragraphs 2 -
and 3 hereof.
The contracting parties will place at each other's disposal
against payment of the net cost of copies of drawings but otherwise
free of charge all their present and future patents covering in-
ventions relating to the Engines the present Japanese patents owned
by the licensors being hereby confirmed to be :
Letters patent No.114 231 dated February 16, 1934
"Einspritzbrennkraftmaschine mit Strahlzerstaubung
und einer oder mehoreren Luftkammern" (Obj. 4159).
Longest duration up to February 16, 1949.
Patont application No. 14509/1934 dated Dec. 28, 1934
"Einspritzbrennkraftmaschine". Obj. 4191
Patent application No. 9756/1937 dated July 9, 1937
"Viertakteinspritzbrennkraftmaschine". Obj. 4228
They agree not to question the validity of ny patent taken out or
of any application for patent made by the other party and will ab-
stain from patenting in their own name a construetion or idea which
has been communicated to them by the other party. Should the
Licensees however renounce their right to take out a patent in the
territories outside the prescribed Territories within a period of

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
一7-
six months agter the first patent application the Licensems will
the right to take advantage of the priority claim to take out
at their own cost in the name of the Licensees and to expleit
in the said territories. Similarly should the Licensers net be
disposed to apply for patent protection in the Preseribed Territomies
on any invention they may make the Licensees are entitled te de
at their expense and in their own name.
The contracting parties mutually agree to aseertain as far
as possible before placing at the other party's disposal any im
provement or new development that this improvement or new develop
ment does not infrings upon any patent owned by a third party bt
nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a warranty by either
party to the other that any improvement or new development disclosed
by such party to the other under the terms hereof does not infringe
upon any Letters Patent granted to any third party.
Article8.
All Engines manufactured and sold under this Agreement will
have affixed to them a plate bearing the indication "Made under
Saurer License" or "Mitshbishi-Saurer" and the Licensees will also
print the said words on all catalogues and eirculars relating to an
Bngine or Engines manufactured and sold hereunder issued by the
Licensees.
Should the Licensees be asked for quotations on Ingines
which they themselves do not at the time manufacture they will use
their best endeavours to persuade clients to byy such engines made
in Arbon. A commission at the rate of five per centum (5%) on all
such sales consumated in this manner will be credited to the Licens-
ees which commission will be calculated at the same rate as the
royalty mentioned in Art. ll.
Article9.
So long as the Licensees are not in a position to manufast-
ure themselves sufficient quantities of the Engines to meet their
demands the Licensors are prepared to supply upon request whatever
parts groups or complets engines that may be needed the terms and
conditions of any such mupply to be agreed upon in each case.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
Artiole10.
The two contracting parties shall inform eash other of
all correspondence which may reach them concerning sales prospess
outside their respective territories.
The Licensors bind themselves not to manufacture or
a license or right to any other party or company to manufacture
the Engines in the Prescribed Territories. The Licensors alse
undertake to see that their other licensees shall not manufacture
Engines in the Prescribed Territories nor directly or indireetly
sell Engines in or for delivery to the territories hereby coded to
the Licensees except the right for the Licensors and their other
licensees to sell lignt motors and their piece parts and spare
parts as stipulated in Art. 1 paragraphs 2 - and 3 hereof.
The Licensors accept full responsibility for any violations
of these stipulations committed by themselves or other licensees
of theirs which infringe the exclusive rights hereby conferred on
the Licensees by this Agreement.
The Licensees bind themselves not to sell the Engines nor
their piece parts or spare parts directly or indirectly to or for
use in territories other than their own except on the strength of
special authorization to be requested and granted in each separate
case by the Licensors.
The Licensees shall include in the general stipulations
of their sales contracts (except in such contracts with the Govern-
ment) a elause binding the buyer not to resell any of the Engines
in or for use in countries outside the prescribed Territories
provided that the foregoing covenant shall not apply to any Engine
manufactured hereunder which shall ghve been sold and used for mm
than twelve calendar months prior to the date of sale thereof for
use outside the prescribed Territories.
▲ny violations of these stipulations will entail the
following penalties:-
1. In case the engine or part imported without permission originates
from either the Licensors or the Licensees the party hereto whose
territorial rights have been violated shali receive from the
other an indemnity of Swiss Francs one Thousand (Sw. Frs. 1,000)
for each case of such violation plus 20% of the invoiced price
of the engine or part imported in this way.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
2. Ia ease the engine or part is imported into the territesy of
the Licensees and originates from other licensees of the Lieen
sors or on the other hand if the engine erigimating from the
Licensees should be imported in the territory reserved by the
 the case may be the indeminity stipulated in the Licensee
ment subsisting between the Licensors and their other lisenseem.
Payment of the above mentioned indemnities does not auther
ize the two contracting parties in any way to continue supplying
engines to countries outside the territory reserved for them.
Article1l.
In consideration of the rights and privileges herebyeoon-
ferred and of the venants hereby mutually agreed the Licensees
will pay to the Licensors:-
1. A lump Bum of SWISS FRANCS THREE HUNDRED THOUSNAD ( Sw. r. 300,000)
which includes the payment already made by the Licensees to the
Licensors of SWISS FRANCS ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ( Sw. r. 10O.O00)
when the Provisional Agreement mubsisting between the parties
hereto was signed on 2nd July One Thousand Nine Hundred and
Thirtyseven in the following instalments:
a) SWISS FRANCS ONE HUNDRED THOUSNAD (Sw. Fr. 1OO, OOO) whon thi
formal License Agreement is signed by both parties.
b) SWISS FRANCS ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ( Sw. Fr. 10O,O0O) on roeeipt
by the Licensees of the drawings and information specified
in Art. 2 paragraph 2 hereof relating to six types of engines
2. A royalty of five per centum (5%) on the selling price ex-Works
on all complete engines ready for use (but with thecoxception
of the electrical equipment and of the fuel pump as long as the
Licensors have no fuel pump of their own design) and of their
piece parts and spare parts manufactured and sold by the Licen-
sees and incorporating any device whether patented or not of
the Engines as manufactured by the Licensors.
The Licensees will guarantee the following minimum royalty:
None for the first Agreement year
From the second Agreement year and during the oonti-
nuance of the Agreement a sum of SWISS FRANCS FIFTY THOUSAND
(Sw. Fr. 50,000) per Agreement year.
Business resulting from the sale of complete finished
engines or parts hereof which have been supplied by the Lieensors
to the Licensees under Art. 8 paragraph 2 and Art. 9 hereof shall not

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
be subjeest to royalty payment.
The License and royalty amounts are payable at the Ma
Bank of Switserland in Zurich or any other Bank that may be inds
by the Licensors.
The above mentioned fees are to be paid to the Lisensems
exempt from all taxes duties deduetions etc. which might be levied
for any reason by the authorities of any one of the countries im
which the Licensees exercise the selling rights as ceded by the
present Agreement or to which the Licensees may sell according to
the sales authorizations in Art. 10 paragraph 4 hereof.
Article12.
The Licensees shall submit to the Licensors at the latest
four weeks after the 30th June and 3lst December in each year a
list of sales and the amount of corresponding royalties taking into
consideration the minimal royalty for the corresponding pariod.
The amounts due and payable shall be settled by the Licensees at
the latest on the 3lst August and 3lst January of each year.
The Licensees shall keep detailed books of account showing
the amount of sales under the terms of this Agreement which shall
be avalloble for examination by a duly authorized representative
of the Licensors at any reasonable time.
In wiew of the difficulties existing in the international
transfer of funds the contracting parties promise during such
difficulties to assist each other to the best of their ability in
order to assure as far as possible the transfer at maturity of the
payments due.
Article13.
This Agreement becomes effective as and from the first day
of July One Thousand Nine Hundred and Thirtyseven in accordance
with the Provisional Agreement entered into by and between the
parties hereto dated second July One Thousand Nine Hundred and
Thirtyseven and shall remain in force for a period of ten years
viz. until 3Oth June One Thousand Nine Hundred and Fortysenven. In
the absence of a written notice by one of the parties addressed to
the other before June 30th 1946 the contract will be extended for
another year until 30th June 1948 and so on from year to year until

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
notice of cancellation the technical cooperation between the
ceasos forthwith.
In the case that after June 30th 1941 the Licensees' turm
over in engines manufactured and sold under this Agreement in one
year (July lst to June 30th) should not reach effectively the
amount foreseen in Art. 1l hereof as corresponding to the minimum
royalty the Licensors will be entitled to grant to any third party
or parties a non-exclusive license for the manufacture and sale in
the prescribed Territories or any of them of all Engines or any
one of them but not on a current royalty basis lower than that pro-
vided for in Art. 1l (2) hereof. Immediately on the grant of such
non-exclusive license the provision in Art. ll hereof for the
payment by the Licensees to the Licensors of a minimum yearly royal-
ty will be cancelled and the Licensors shall no more be entitled
for the future to such payment from the Licensees.
Should the Licensors be prevented from receiving the pay-
ment stipulated in Art. ll hereof becaase of difficulties in the
transfer of funds between Japan and Switzerland they are entitled
to terminate the present Agreement at any time with one year's
previous notice served by them on the Licensees and the Licensees
will be entitled to no claim demages whatsoever arising from
this cancellation.
Article14.
This Agreement cannont be transferred to another party
except by the transfer of the business or on reorganisation but in
case of such transfer the rights of the other party bereto shall
not be violated or affected thereby.
The Licensees may grant when requested by the Japanese
Government sub-licenses hereunder or the right to do any of the acts
which the Licensees themselves are hereby authorized to do to any
corporation firm or person in the Prescribed Territories for such
consideration as they may think fit but in any such sub-license or
sub-licenses the Licensees shall reserve royalties for thelsem-
sors at a rate not less than that stipulated herein and all royal-
ties accruing from such sub-license or sub-licenses shall be
considered as contributions to make up the minimum yearly royalty
payable to the Licensors as hereinbefore mentioned. Any such sub-
license or grant shall oontain the ame covenants and obligations

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
on the part of the sub-licensees to the Licensees as these
contained on the part of the Licensees to the Lieensors
murandie or as near thereto as circumstances will permit andt
Licensees will resain fully responsible towards the Licensors sor
the faithful observation of the terms of the sub-licens by the
sub-licensees.
In case the Licensors are asked to grant a license on the
Engines in or for the Republic of china the Licensors shall on
receipt of such offer give notice in writing hereof to the Licensees
and the Licensees shall have the option (to be exercised by notice
in writing served on the Licensors within 30 days after the receipt
of notice of such offer) to acquire such rights on the terms and
conditions of the offer which the Licernsors are willing to ascept.
Bach party will forthmith upon exercise by the Licensees of such
option do and execute all acts matters documents and things to give
effect to this clause.
Article15.
After the termination of this Agreement either by lapse
withdrmwal or cancellation of same all rights and obligations here-
under shall cease and the mutual right to the use of any existing
patents shall termdinate. The Licensees shall also cease to make
any use whatever of the indication "Made under Baurer License" or
"Mitsubishi-Saurer" as from that time.
Each party will however grant to the other party upon
request a non-exclusive license for the use by the other party (and
in the case of the Licensors also by their other Licensees) in each
party's reserved or prescribed Territories as the case will be of
the patents owned by them or applied for at the time of the notice
of eancellation of this Agreement relating to the Engines.
Such licenses will be granted on conditions no less favour
able than the terms granted to any other licensees.
Article16.
If any dispute shall arise between the parties hereto con-
cerning the construction of this license or the rights durties or
liabilities of the parties hereunder then and in every such case
the matter in dispute or difference shall be referred to a single
Arbitrator to be appointed by the prosident for the time being of

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
Te Sntermatisnal chember q Commerce whore de ssision h
and binding on the parties hereto.
The contracting parties themselves ahe their
tives undertake to do everything in their power to mai
dential all matters which are necessary to ensure and
their interenss.
Both parties hereto wish to emphasize that they will
together in a liberal and friendly spirit in the fullest eoej
and do everythang within their power to ensure the complete
cal and financial success of this Agreement.
Signed sealed and delivered by the above named
SOCIETE ANONYME ADOLPHE SAURER
Vice-Manager
Principal Manager

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.94)
A G R E E d E N T made thnis eleventh day of Neveer
one thousand nine hundred and thirty-six betweem wirr
Berlin #. 62. a company duly registered in Gemany
referred to as "the Patentees") of the one part and Mbishi
Jukogyo Kabushiki Kaisha, Tokyo, a company duly regiateed in
Japen (hereinafter referred to as "the Licensees") of
part,
N H E R E A S the patentees own patents in Japn (amomng dshor
Nos. 85080 and 95321) and elsewh ere and possess aímy domigs
and forms of construction and have extensive experince in 
neotion wi th the construction of Marine Engines fitted with
Boppet Valves of the Lentz 3ysten and which system is mpplied
th "LENT STNDARD RINE ENGINE" (hereinafter refo to 
"LES") and to the "TRIPLE EXPAN ICN M RINE ENGINE" (herointor
referred to as "LED"), and
W H E R E A 3 LEs is a Double Compound Engine with L
poppet Valve Gear, the said engine being designed in meven sizes
as referred to in the table S. 3325, nd Led is : Trimte Expan-
sion Engine with Low-Pressure-Uniflow-Cylinder, the mad engime
being designed in three sizes as referred to in the tale L
Co5a, and
A E R E A 3 the Patentees are the sole owners of thaworra
rights for the two types of engines referred to as
"LED”。
NOW TH REFORE THESE PRESENT WITNESSES
(1). in consideration of the premises and payment hermsmafeer

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.97)
8.
mentioned the Patentees grent to the Lieensees an
lieense for the onstruetion of LES and LED engines
sent and future patents for installation as recipres
gines in steam driven vessels, and also for any other
and applieations except for locomotives and locomobilem.
(2) The Licensees are hereby granted the exolusive licenme 
build the LES and LED engines in their Works in Japan and they
have the right, but not the oxelusi ve ri ght, to sell such
engimes in all parts of the world with the only exception of th
ritory is solely in the hands of the American Ship Building Com
pany, Ohio, it being understood that sales in Countries outsid
the Japanese mpire, Manchukuo, Chisa end Siam will be continu
only for the time during which such manufacture and sale can
proceed and remain unrestricted without any legal decision to
the contrary having been given throug. contravention of the
rights of any kind whetsoever. lowever, in no ciroumstances
can the Licensees be deprived of the right to supply the mgime
in question to vessels of eny na tionality, if the engines are
installed in Japan. The Licensees will be informed by the
patentees of all future menufavturing end selling rights granted
by the Patentees in all countries.
The rights hereby granted to the Licensees inolude that of com-
verting existing steam engines into Lentz engines.
(3). The Licensees agree and hereby undertake that all engimes
built and sold under the terns of this agree ent will have af-
fixed thereto in a conspiouous posi tion a plate showing in
legible characters the partioulars of the rights,. under whisk

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
一8-
sush engimes have been construsted and in addition
mesme "Salge-Lents-System".
(a). The Patentees hereby agree and undertake te
Licensees the drawings end plans for seven different
te Ls and for three difrerent sizes of the LED, all
Iatest design, as soon as possible after completion of
agreement and that drawings will confirm to the lists
No. 8.3280, 3281, 3282, 3283, 3284, 3285 and 3286 and to 11
of LED-drawings. The drawings and plons in question te coneis
of one set of copiable drawings and one set of blue prints for
emch size of angine. The Patentees undertake further to supply
purposes and for advertising the LES and LED engines as r a
suoh plans and drawings may be av:ilabhe.
(5). In consideration of the license and rights herein eom
ferred and of the information and data, including drawinga nd
take to pay to the Patentees a sun of USA Dollars TWENtY THoUsAm
(USA  20,000.-) in the following three instalments:
USA-Dollars 7,500.- on ∞nolusion of the agreementi
USa-Dollars 7,500.- ondelivery of the LES-drawing and
of one set of LED-drawings against
invosice after delivery to the Msk.
G.m.b.H., Berlin;
USA-Dollars 5,0cC.- on arrival of the remaining 2 so r
LED-drawings at our Works in Ja
No royalty is payable to the Patentees on any engine built or
sold by the Licensees under this license.
(6). Should the Licensees at any time mequire amd order from
the Patentees any special phans and drawings such plans 

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
drawings shall be charged to the Licensees at the
prsee thereof to the Patentees plus an additional
hundred per cent of suoh cost-price to cover overheed
charges of the Patentees and the Licensees undertake
such extre plans and drawings immediately on receipt of fvei
in respect thereof.
(7). The Patentees undertake and agree that upon requeae
against reimbursement of the cost incurred they will be prwsent
at and take part in all meetings, trials, etc., if and whe 
quired so to do by the Licensees for the purpose of giving 
vice and informmtion to the Licensees or their agents.
The Licensees have the right to send at their charge as
required to the drawing offic of the Patentees and, if pmminle
to the Horks of one of their Licensees a technical star
ceive instruction and training in the methods of desimi
manufacture, practive and workmansnip connected with the
coming within the scope of this agreement. The Patenteo
to afford all facilities and assistance to this technioal atarr,
including admittance to their own Drawdng Office and permission
for en try into the Works of one of their Licensees, and all such
services to be rendered free of charge to the Licensees. It ts
understood that such visists of engineers of the Licamsees hell
not last for e longer period than is necessary for their traim-
ing.
(8). If in the future the Patentees shell make or oquii the
use of any improvements (patented or not) in or aadisioms to
the LES and LED engines, excepting such improvet thay
be moquired from any party outside the group or the 

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
一5-
lieenpees. The Licensees shall have the benefit thereke
any adkitional or extra payment. In the event of the Lie
making or acquiring from any of their employees any impov
to the LES and LED engines the Licensees shall commumieate
to the Patentees for their free use.
Where improvements are acquired by the Patentees from partio
outside their group ofilicensees, in return for a cash consi
ation, the Licensees have the right, should they so desire,
acquire such improvements, the cost of puroahse being shared
•qually by such of the Patentees' licensees as may decide to
adopt and enjoy the benefits of such improvements.
For thq purpose of keeping the Licensees fully informed of
new developments made by the Patentees or their lieensees,
Patentees undertake to send the Licensees a half-yearly sum
of progress.
(9). The Licensees under take and agree that in consideration
of the axclusive building license for LES and LED engines hd
∞nferred, they will maintain the patents in Japan subject
this agreement, and which maintenance includes the fees of
patent agent so far as the Japanese patents are concerned.
The Licensees shall inform the Patentees of any infringements
the Patents in Japan of which they may become aware. Ir the
Licensees take action as is necessary to maintain the paton
in Japan, the Patentees shall, if called upon by the Liee
assist them in their endeavour and the Licensees undertake
bear the cost of suoh action and assistance.
(10). The Licensees undertake and bind themselves to reomm
and if possible adopt and use the LE3 ad LED construetio

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.97)
all suitable steam-driven vessels. To keep the
the Patentees up-to-date, the Licensees will infe
ees every half-year of all LES and LED engines buil
stalled and such information ahall contain the type
of the engine, the name of the vessel and owmers, t
developed by the engine and the nuaber of revolution
(11). This agreement comes into force on the date imed
and on reoeipt of the first instalment to be made by
sees to the Patentees. All oontroversies and interp
relating to this agreement when such cannat be settlek mmioable
between the parties hereto shall be r ferred to the Court for
decision which in the case of a plaint by the Patenteos shall
be vhe Court in Tokyo nd in the case of a plaint by the Lieen-
sees shall be the Court in Berlin.
SIGNED and DELIVERED for and on
behalf of the said willyvSalge
& Co. Technische Gesellschaft
m.b.H. by
#illy Salge & Go. Technische
Gesellschaft n.b.H.,
«. Salge.
Witness:
R. Scholz.
SIGNED and DELIVERED for and on
behalf of the eaid Mitsubishi
Jukogyo Kabushiki Kai sha by
their duly authorized agents
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha G.m.b.H.,
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha G.m.b.H.,
J. Watanabe,
Manager.
witness
....... M. Fujimuro.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
38
Agreement
Betwsen
Friedrioh Krupp Grusonwerk A. G.
and
Mitsubishi Kogyo Kaisha, Ltd. and Kabashiki Kaishaishewm Seikeshe
on
Renn Process Patent.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.93)
8 a
the Friedrieh Krupp Gruseawerk Aktiengesellschaft, Mmstebure-Bs,
Germany, hereinefter ealled the PAttE of the one part and the
Mitsubishi Kesyo Kaisha, Ltd. (in nglish, Mitsubimhi Msing Ge..
Ltd.), Tokyo, Japan and Kabushiki Xaishe Showa Seikoske (in English,
Showe Steel Maufacturing Co., Ltd.), Anzan, Manchukuo, hereinarter
called the SMELTERS of the other part.
witnesseth:-
(a)
WHEREAS the PATENTEE owms and has the right of dispesal ef
a eertain smelting prooess, known as the "Renn Process", wherein
iron and other metals are amelted direetly in a rotary kiln to
fesm "Luppe", patented and patents applied for as follews:-
Japanose Patent No.12l561.
Applijation No.12805 in 1954.
n
No. 5549, No.6554 and No.9576 1n 1988
Manohurian "
No. 2566, No.2406 and No.2554 in 195€
WHEREAS the PATENTEE has invented a process related to the
"Ronn Proeess" which enables the re-treatment of the "Luppe", 
prosess is patented in Germany as Patent No.Kl40674/V1/1s6 and
applied as Patent Application No.Kl44086/v1/186; correspending
applications for patents mde in Japan and Manohukuo, and respeetive
patent no.s will be informed the SMELTERS by the PATNTEE as soon
as approved in Germany.
(B)
WHEREAS the SMELTERS sent their technical erperts to Essen-
Borback to inspect the plant, treating iron ore on an industrial

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.95)
● 8 -
seale by the continueus operation of the process mentiemed besem
abeve, and to Frankenstein, Sohlesia, to study a plant treating
miokel-bearing iron ore on an industrial soale.
WHEREAS the PATENTEE carried out erperimental treatment in
its laboratory of the iron ores mines by the SuELTERS and reperted
results by letters to the latter.
And WHEREAS the SMELTERS were informed by the PATENTEE ebout
the contents of the Japanese Patent No.l&l56l mentioned hereimabeve.
Now, therefore, it is mutually agreed that the SMELrERs shall
obtain the right to utilise and dispose for commereial purposes the
process for the melting of iron in rotary kilns as deseribed here-
inabove, in accordance with the inspections and reperts of the
SMELTERS technical erperts, under the following terms and conditioms:
for the territories of Japan, Manchukuo and Mongolia whieh are under
Japanese influenee.
AGREED:-
Art. I. The PATINTEE shall transfer the PATENTS and PATENT
applications in Japan and Manchukuo, as mentioned preamble (A)
to the SMELTERS as soon as this agreement becomes in foroe,
and shall permit the SMELTERS to utilize them in areas,
4th, par. of preamble (B). In other words, the PATEnTkE shall
have the following obligations to perform:-
a) The Japanese Patent No.l2l56l and Japanese Patent Applica-
tions, mentioned lst par. of preamble (A), shall be ohanged
to the SMELTERS' name.
b) As the German Patent Application No.Kl40674/V1/1s b, men-
tioned in 2nd par. of preamble (A), has passed its prierity
term, the PATENTEE must submit to the SMELTERS date to
enable the SuELtERS to apply in their own names for the

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
- 5 -
cerrespending patents, in Japen and in Mamekakme. The
PATENTEE shall change the name of applisant fer the
Japanese and Manchurian Patent Applieations correspemding
to No.K1440s6/v1/1s b. mentioned in same par.
In case when the above-mentioned patents are granted, they
shall all belong to the SMELTERS.
When the PATEnTS granted extend to other metallie applieation
besides re-treatment of "Luppe" and the PATENTkE and his oustomers
shall carry out this additional application, the Sheirrrs shall
not be able to prohibit these applications according to the Pitm?
rights in the agreed areas.
The SMELTERs shall obtain the right to use and dispose the
"Renn Process" in Chinese Mongolia. This right shall, hewever,
not be monopolistio.
Art. II. The SMELTkRS shall bear expenses which will be paid by
the PATünTk arising from the transfer and conveyanee ef the
PATENT, PATENT applications and priority mentioned in Art. I.
Art. III. The SMELTERS shall henceforth carry out the proeedures
of the PATENT applications which shall be transferred to the
SMELTERS fron the PATENTEE according to paragraphs a and  in
Art. I, in which cases the PATENTEE shall be liable to help
the SMELTERS.
Art. IV. The PATENTEE shall submit to the SMELTERS the kmowledge
and experiences obtained up to today regarding the PAtnTs
mentioned in preamble (A) besides transferring the PArnts and
PATENT applications concerned as agreed to by Artioles I
to III.
Art. V. As compensation for the transfer of the PATNTs and
PATENT applications and the presentation of knowdedge and

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
experienses mentioned in preamble (A) or the transfer
rights in accordance with this agreement frem the Patmems to
the SMELTERS, the latter shall pay the sum mounting te
£400,000 to the former. This sum shall not be dedueted evem
1f it may be tared or be charged with any other duties in the
areas mentioned in this agreement. The payment of this sum
shall be carried out when beth parties sign this agreement
under the following sohedule:-
: of the sum : $100,000 in cash.
 of the sum : f100,000 in months' cheok.
 of the sum : £200,000 in 3 years cheok.
The sum to be paid to the PATENThE in accordance with th
artiole shall be in British sterling. The said two cheeks
shall have the authorized signatures of the SMELTERS' Cempemy
The discount charges of these cheoks and stamp duties shall be
born by the PATENTEE.
Art. VI. The SMELTERS shall have the right to transfer the right
of utilizing the "Renn Process", mationed in preamble (A),
in the areas agreed on to any third applicant on reasonable
conditions, except the monopolistic right of disposal. The
SMELTERS, howeyer, oannot transfer to any third party the
PATET and PATENT applications obtained in accordance with Art.
I. The SHELTERS shall never fail to inform the PATENTEs the
proceedings concerming the transfer of the right to use said
PATENTS and PATENT applioations and also shall submit a eopy
of the agreement made between the SMELTERS and any third party
to the PATENTEE.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
2
一 8 -
Then ary third party aaks the Patentee fer the transter 
the PATknTEE shall convey the request of the third party te
the SMELTERS.
Art. VII. If the SMELTERS shall make an agreement coneerming the
use of said patent and PAtnT applicatien with the third
party, the SMELTERS shall give one nineth of the agreed
remmneration. This payment shall be up to the smam of sso,000.
The sum to be paid by the SMELTERS to the PATENTKE shall be
sum reseived from the third party. The SukLrms shall be
respensible to prepare the book in which the mum receivel shall
be entered, and the PATENtEk shall have the right to leek over
the book at any time they need.
Art. VIII. The SMELTERS are bound to purohase from the PA at
their present quotation kilns and accessories whieh are
necessary for operation of the "Renn Poroess" and whieh are
mainly supplied by the PATENTEE. The SMELTERS are also beun
to make any thikt party, who will have the right to use the
PATENT or PATENT application, bear the same obligatien, and
the SMELTERS must impose upon the third party the same duty at
the time of agreement concerning the transfer of the right of
utilizing this process. The freedom with whioh the SMkLTERS
or sub-licensee can provide for by themselves shall be based
upon the list attached to the estimate, dated May Srd, l957,
as submitted to the Mitsubishi Kogyo Kaisha, Ltd. by the
PATENTKK via the Mitsubish1 Shoj1 Kaisha, Ltd. in Germany.
After having supplied first 8 kilns of 3.6 m in diameter and

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
SuELTERS can manufacture in Japan so far as it does met cemr
with the regulations of the Geman authorities of the day.
Art. IX. The PATENTKE shall be responsible to assist the first
two plants owned by the SMELTERS in order to start their epera-
tion completoly, by sending a minimum group of 1 engineer,
3 fire-men for kilns and 3 operating workers of mchineries
for 6 months at the longest after the completion of each plant.
These charges are fixed according to the conditions written
in the letter, dated Sept. 8th, l937, addressed to the
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Ltd. in Tokyo.
If the SMELTERS request the PATENTEE to send more experts
than said numberfor above-mentioned two plants or for any other
proposed Renn plants which will be built in the future according
to this agreement, the PATENTEE shall accept the request so
far as they can and send engineering experts or contracting
workersir there is no objection from the government authorities.
These despatch expenses are caloulated in aceordamce with the
general regulation of the PATENTEE and travelling expenses,
pass-port charges, insuranoe premium, outfit charges, eto.
are also inoluded.
The PATENTKE shall test the ores to be treated in the areas
agreed at the laboratory of the PATENTEk for the benefit of the
SMELTERS and sub-licensee so far as the PATENTKE can do when
the lieensees make a request.
In this case the SMELTERS shall pay the charges relating to
the test according to the charges fixed by the PATTEE.
The PATENTKE shall permit the SMELTERS to send Japenese techni
experts to withness the tests and shall give mough time to

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
them fer the study of the Renn Precess. The mi 
order these technical expents to keep the seerets frem the
experiences obtained during the inspection.
Art. X. The PATENTEE shall report to the ShELrERs the new know
hedge and experiences within the renges mentiened in Preemble
A during the term of agreement, and shall also pemit the
SMELTERS and sub-licensees to use in the areas agreed all
patents, which will be applied as new idea, at the PArm
discretion, without requesting any special compemmation.
provided that this artiole shall not apply to the Pa
if they have not the free disposal.
The SMELTERS are liable to report to the PATENTEE all the
The SMELTERS shall be able to hold the rights regarding the
PATENTS and PATENT applications in their own mame for the
improvement or changes in Japan and Manchukuo at their own
expenses, and shall permit the PATENTEE and sub-licensees to
utilize their improvements and changes at free charges
in the areas outside Japan and Manohukuo, no matter whether
these improvements or changes shall be patented or not.
with regard to the improvement and changes by the SumLrems
by the sub-licensee or by those two combined, it will be
outside Japan and Manchukuo.
Art. I. The kLTkRS shall not divulge any content relatine to the
Process mentioned in this agreement, and also shall foree
the sub-licensee and any other third party who are eoncerned

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
with the usage of this Process not to divulge aay sonsmt
relating to this Process. The PATENTEE shall net divel 
any information and content regarding the plans of Remn Prese
by the SMELTERS in the areas agreed.
Are. XII. The SMELTERS or sub-licensee shall permit at any time the
PATENTKk to inspect their Renn Plant and shall submit the in-
formation regarding the operation of Remn Prosess at their
plant to the PATENTEE except in case when the Japanese or
Manchurian government will not give the permission. In case
when the PATENTEE request the Licensees for inspection of their
plant, the Licensces shall strive to get the permission from
the government for the PATENTEE.
The PATENTEE shall endeavour to obtain permission from the
authorities to inspeot "Renn Plant" of the PATENTEE for the
SMELTERS or the sub-licensee.
Art. XIII. The SMELTERS shall not supply the • quipment and neees-
sary infomations to any third party outside the agreed aress,
viz., Japan, Manchukuo, Mongolia (see the 4th Paragraph of
Preamble B and Art. I). The SMELTERS shall not build or operats
a Renn Plant out side the agreed areas unless a special agree-
ment is made between the Licensees and the PATkNTkE or the
successor of the PATENTEE.
The SMELTERS or the sub-Licensee shall not infringe the patent
concerning this Process in any third country, and shall met
act in or out of the agreed areas against the PAtknr on
matters relating to the Process mentioned in Preamble A.
Art. XIy. In case when the Nihon Seitetsu Kaisha, Ltd. requests
the PATENTEE to join the SMELTERS after having agreed to the

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.97)
terms and conditions of this agreement, the Patmrms shall
accept at enee this proposal even after eeneludins ths
agreement with the SMeLTERS.
Art. V. The PATENTEE shall not be liable to the matter whether
the applicatien for PATkNT would be realised or net, and to
the continuation of PATENT granted or PATENT cranted in aseer=
dance with the lst paragraph of Art. I. Especially the PAtmtE
shall not be liable for taking part and carrying out the dis-
pute relating to the said PATENT or the right of application
for said PATINT, but the PATENTEE shall agree to support the
SuLtERs by giving advices for the purposes of carrying out
the dispute.
In cases where the PATENT is violated by any third party and
the SuELTERS do not want to aot for the proteotion of the
PATENT against violation, the SMELTERS shall make preparatioms
for the PATENTEkS who would be able to act against the violater
of the PATENT.
Art. XVI. Both the PATENTEE and SMELTERS shall not divulge any
content of this agreement, provided that this rule shall not
apply to when one of the parties obtained other's consent.
Art. IVII. This agreement is made in conformity to the German law,
and shall be executed in Berlin. Each party of the agreement
shall bear the expenses of legal procedures relating to this
agreement arising in each country.
Att. IIIx. This agreement shall be in force, when the cash fixed
in Art. V is paid after the agreement is signed by both
parties and two cheoks, mentioned in same article formally
completed are handed from the SMELTERS to the PATTEE, for
a term of 15 years.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.96)
- 10-
Beth the Parrtés and the swelrns agree te epress te eesk
ether thattrespective cempetent authorities have me ebjeetm
to the conelusion of this agreement.
Art. Xx. This agreement is made in German and in Jepamese am
each party have two soripts, one in German and the ether in
Japenese respectively. In case when we ask for elueidatiom
of construction of this agreement, we adopt the Germm serips
as a standard.
Art. XX. The SMeLtERS decide the Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Ltd.
in Berlin as their agent in executing this agreement.
This agreement in Japanese is quite the same with that mase em
Sept. 14th, 1937 in Berlin Between the PATENTEE and Mr. Juro
Watanabe, the agent of the SMELTERS, and this agreement was in
force from Sept. 14th, 1937.
In WITNEss whereor the parties above mentioned heve hereunto
set their hand on Dec. 30th, 1037.
Patentee:
Friedrich Kumpp Grusonwerk A.G.
Magdeburg, Germany.
Smelters:
Mitsubishi Kogyo Kaisha, Ltd.
No.4, Marunouchi-Nichome, Kojimachi-ku,
Tokyo.
Suteji Kawate
Chairman of Board of Directors.
Showa Seikojo, Ltd.
Steel Manufacturing Zone, Ansan, Manehakue.
Naoto Kobiyama
President.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendiz to the Agreement regarding the Transter of
Rezn Precess Patent dated Mmptember leth, l9sy.
Maneharian Rean Process Patent Joint Association, Tokyo, hereimafter
ealled the Asscciation of the one party and Friedrieh Xrapp Grusen-
werk A.G., Magdeburs, hereinafter called Grusonwerk, represented
by Dr. Carl Vogt, an attoney, in Tokyo.
WHEREAS it is agreed as follows:-
Both the Assciation and Grusonwerk agreed to interposing follew-
ing artioles instead of Art. vIII of the agreement made between
said parties on September 14th, 1937.
Art. I. The Association and sub-licenseeshall be able to
manufacture necessary kiln and accessories for operating
Renn Frocess by themselves in Japan or in Manchukuo. The
Association and sub-licensee agree to purohase solely from
the Grusonwerk at the present terms and conditions the
machineries, whioh they cannot manufacture in Japan or
in Manchukuo upon their own designs, when these machineries
belong to within the supply limits by the Grusonwerk in
accordance with the agreement dated September 14th, 1937.
Art. II. When a new addition of Renn Process plant is drawn
up at the request of the Association and sub-licensee,
the Grusonwerk shall assist them by stating the views
upon the plan made in Japan or in Manchukuo about their
seleotion, contents, arrangement, eto. of mchineries.
The Grusonwerk, however, has no responsibility upem the
plant built in this manner.
The Grusonwerk shall not supply any data of design for

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
or in Manchukue.
Art. III. At the time when this uppendix is sigmed the Am
tion shall pay to the Grusonwerk the lump mam meunting
to RM. 100,000.- from Imperial Japanese freimarke asoeans
as a compensation of cancelling the obligation to purehass
neccessary kiln and accessories for Renn Process eperaties
from the Grusonwerk as mentioned in Art. VIII ef the
original agreement on Renn Process.
Art. Iv. with regard to other articles of the eriginal agree-
ment dated September 14th, 1937, they shall comtimue Just
as they are now without any influenee by this appemdix,
except alterations mentioned in this appendix. The words
expressed "Japan" and "Manchukuo" shown in this appendix
shall be understood as the same states and tertitories
as expressed in the original agreement dated September
14th, 1937.
Art. v. This appendix is made both in Japanese and German,
and two parties possess respectively two seripts, one in
Japanese and the other in German.
The Japanese-Manchurian Renn Process
Patent Joint Assooiation:-
Member:
Mitsubishi Kogyo Kaisha, Ltd.
Sentaro Komura
President.
Manehurian Iron Mamufacturing Co., Ltd.
Ryotaro Shimamura
Chairman of Committees.
Friedrich Krupp Grusemwerk A.e.
Dr. Carl Vegt, and attamey
Agent.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
Remlties paid to the Iriedrish Irupp r
Date
Amount
Remarks
Apr. 21, 1945
55,555.55
Process Patent.
Aug. 22, 1944
¥257,400.00
Compensation for the right of
Manchukuo.
Total
¥312,955.55

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.95)
Entre les se
IA MITSUBISHI NANEGI KAISHA LTD. TE
atée par Mr. E. ITo, Adminiatrateur-Délégué de la
Anonyme Prancaise HITSUBISHI, 144 avenue des Che
Paris, cioapres dénommée "LA MITSUBISHI", d'une part,
- et la Société Anonyme des Carburateurs et App
CLAUDEL, au capital de 10.550.000 Francs, dont le Stage
cial est sis 17 bis, Boulevard de Levallois prolong
Levallois-Porret (Seine), représentée par Mr. L. MARoIux,
son Administrateur-Delégué, ci-apres dénommée "CLAUneL"
d'autre part,
Il a été convenu ce qui suit :
ARTICLE I
Claudel cede à la Mitsubishi le droit exolusif de
fabrication et d'exploitation, au Japon et en Mandohourfo,
de tous las types de carburateurs Claudel à combustfale li-
quide pour moteurs d'aviation existants ou à venir, on pare
ticulier, ceux sur lesquels il a des droits de propriété
industrielle, couverts par les brevets et certifieats a'ad-
dition ci-dessoue :
Brevet Nº 11.038 du 17/11/25, Carburateur démgntable.
rechauffage.
- Brevet N0 9.808 du 10/10/25, Corbecteur double.
 Brevet Nº 1.676/26 du 25/2/26, Gicleur tube souple.
intermediaire.
ARTICIE 
Claudel fournira, en trois exemplaires, à la Mitsu-
bishi, tous les dessins d'exécution bleus nécessaires  la
fabrication des appareils mentionnés ci-apres, au plus tard

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
1º. le carburatour type se aL.
2°- le carburatour type 60 SL.
30. le carburateur type 60 DL.
4º. le carburateur type 46 SH.
5°- le carburatour type T.C.G. 55
6° le earburatour type H.C. 8
70 le carburatour type 64 D.E.RR.
°- lo carburateur type C.7.B.R.
ARTICLK 3
Pour la rémunération de la présente cession de li-
cence, la Mitsubishi versora à Claudel la somme de Francs.
250.O00..- (DEUX CENT CINQUANT: MILLE PRANCS), payable de la
facon suivante :
- la moitié, soit frs. 125.000.--à la signature du présent
contrat,
- le solde, soit frs. 125.000.--à la remise des dessins d'.
execution ci-dessus indiques.
ARTICLE 4
La présente concession du droit d'exploitation des
appareils mentionnés ci-dessus est consentie moyennant une
redevance de dix pour cent (1o %) sur le prix de vente des
appareils fabriqués et vendus par la Mitsubishi. Cette rede-
vance entrera en application à partir du 150Iome appareil,
fabriqué et vendu par la lfitsubishi.
Le paiement des redevances aura lieu, tous les ans,
de la facon suivante :
- la premiore année partira de la date de vente du lçoIome
appareil;
- le paiement des redevances, dues pour la lore année, aura
lieu un an après cette date, d'apros un état des ventes,
dressé par la Mitsubishi et adressé annuellement à Claudel,

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.95)
mímei, de muite eheque année.
 r Claudel fournire, ratuitement, è la 
Mftsubishi, des plaques de lisence matrfeulées, dent
Stre mumis, obligatoirement, les appareils fabriqués
uitaubishi.
ARTICIE 5.
nirait à la Mitsubishi le personnel technique nécessaire à
mise en train de la fabrication. Les frais de déplacement et
de séjour dudit personnel seraient à la charge de la Mitsubishi.
D'autre part, Claudel accepte de laisser la Mitsubisht,
si cezte derniore le juge necessaire, envoyer, à sa charge, dams
ses usines, un personnel technique, ingénieur et mécanioiens,
Claudel s oblige à recevoir, dans ses usines, le personnel ei-
dessus, auss1 longtemps qu'il sera nécessaire, pour que ca der-
tuitement, dans toute la mesure possible, cette mise au courant.
ARTICLE 6
Claudel s engage à comminiquer immédiatement à la Mit-
subishi tous les perfectionnements, creations, inventions, se
rapportant aux carburateurs faisant l objet du présent contret,
qu'il pourra réaliser à partir de ce jour et pendant toute la
durée du présent contrat, lesquels seront déposés au Japan à la
charge de Claudel. A cet effet, Claudel remettra à la Mitsubishi
les bleus de fabrication relatifs à ces nouveaux appareils en
trois exemplaires.
La Mitsubishi communiquera, de son côté, è Claudel,
tous ses inventions, perfectionnements, créations, se repportant
aus earburateurs d’aviation à combustible liquide et donnera toms
pouvoirs pour les protéger légalement en tous pays, autres que

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTIOLRT
La Mitsubishi ne pourra, pendant la durée
contrat, s'intéresser directement ou indirectement
tre affaire pouvant faire concurrence aux carburate
ARTICIE 8
Le présent contrat est fait pour une durés
années et entrera en vigueur à partir de la date de sigrat
par les parties.
A l’expiration de le période ciodessus, le present 
trat sera renouvelé automatiquement, pour une nouvelle poride
trois (s) ans, et ainsi de suite tous les (s) trois ans)  
que la Mftsubishi, désirant y mettre fin, le notifie I Iatre.
partie, par lettre recommandée, six (c) mois avant l'expiration
de chaque période.
ARTICLE 9
Pour le règlement de tous litiges, relatifs à lintere
prétation ou à l'exécution du présent contrat, los pérties con
tractantes s'engagent à recourir à un arbitrage rondu conform
ment au reglement d'arbitrage de la Chambre de Commeree Interma-
tionale par et avec les arbitres désigmés par la Cour d Arbitrage
de la Chambre de Commerce Internationale à Paris. Elles aenga
gent, en conséquence, à exécuter les décisions du ou des arbitres.
En cas de désaccord, le Tribunal de da Seine, stegeant
: Paris, sera seul compétent pour toute action judicfaire.
ARTICLE 10
Le présent contrat pourra être enregistré
d'ue des deux parties contractantes, les frais d'eregtroment
étant payés par celle des parties qui aura domandé s Tormalité
Pait, à Paris, en trois exemplaires, le vingtoiny m

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
LICEMSE AGRHEMENT.
This agreement made between MITSUI BUSsAN KAIsHA.
LIMITED, Tokio, Japan (hereinafter called "The Lieemse of
on part, and AKTIESELSKABET BURMEISTER & WAIN'S MAK
SKIBSBYGERI? Copenhagen, Denmark (hereinafter called "Burmeiste
& Wain") of the other part,  HEREBY IT IS DECLARED AND AGRD
FOLLOWS:
1.
Burmeister & Wain hereby grant to the Licensee
an exolusive right for the Empire of Japan, (including Korea,
Formosa and Saghalien,) and also Manchuko (hereinafter called
"The Territory") to manufacture and sell for Japanese and Man-
chukuo owners the Purmeister & Wain Type of Diesel engines for:
a) Marine motors for merchant vessels.
b) Auxfary motors for merchant vessels.
c) Marine motors of high speed, light weight type suitable
for men of war such as cruisers and submarines.
d) Stationary mo tors.
It is reserved to Burmeister & Wain the full right
to sell and deliver in the Territory every kind of Diesel
engines made by them in Copenhagen.
It is reserved to Burmeister & Wain and their other
Licensees the right to effect in any port of the Territory
repirs (including supply of duplicate parts) to any vessel
using any kind of Diesel engines manufacturk  them.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
On the other hand the Licensee is entitled in any
port to effect repairs (including supply of duplieate
any vessels using any kind of Diesel engines manufactured 
Burmeister & Wain give the Licensee the benefit of
any patents in the Territory relating to the said yst
controlled by Burmeister & Wain. Improvements and new patem
concerning Marine type of Diesel motors taken out by one of th
parties during the period of this agreement are to be mutually
exohanged wi thout costs. As to any improvements to be made im
or respecting the said moters which the parties have used for
their Diesel engines during the continuance of this agrement
each party shall have the right to utilize the same, blueprint
and specifications to be exchanged against payment of the mat
cost of preparation and forgarding thereof. For all such in-
ventions and improvements to be made in or respecting the
a1
motors for which Burmeister & Wain are securing Patents for
countries after having made this agreement. Burmeister & Wai
are also to secure patents for Japan at their own expense.
2.
The Licensee will at Burmeister & Wain's cost assist
in maintaining or defending in the Territory any Letters Paten
of in respect to the said inventions or to improvements there

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
and the Licensee will in no case be concermed in comtestims
challenging the said rights of Burmeister & Wain ner will
anything to abrogate or invalidate suoh rights.
The Licensee will commnicate to Burmeister & Wain
every infringement or suspected infringement of the said Letters
Patents as soon as same shall come to his notice or kmowlodge,
will to the best of his ability (at the expense of Burmeister &
Wain)assist and support them in any legal proceedings taken y
them in respect of any such infringement or suspected infringm
Burmeister & Wain shall at all time during the
continuance of this license use their best
tually protect and defend the said Letters Patents or any impre
ments thereon from infringements, but with the provime that they
shall not be bound to institute or prosecute legal proeeedings i
any case which they shall think it inexpedient to do so.
3.
Burmeister & Wain agree to supply to the Licensee all
drawings and instructions for the manufacture of the abeve
named Diesel motors and to open their workshop for 4 engineers
4 skilled labour foremen and eventually necessary substituted for
them, who according to the opinion of the Licensee shall partake
in the detailed manufacture of the said Diesel mo tors amd to ive
these men assistance and advice of the Managing and Teehnieal
Directors and the Exp
Staff of Burmeister & Wain to enable the

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
men to learn thoroughly of the mamufacture of amd attemimee
the said motors.
The drawings, information and instruction which mrmeiste
agree to supply to the Licensee for the
of the above named Diesel engines are intended selely fer
the Licensees own use and consequently, the Licensee binds hir
not to give this information or sell sub-license to any other
whether company, firm or person.
The Licensee furthermore binds himself to take every
ordinary precaution to prevent information, which all will be
furnished him by Burmeister & Wain from beins made use of by
of his employees to the detriment of the parties to this contr
4.
The purpose of this agreement is to promote in the
Territory the use of the Burmeister & Wain's Diesel engines
Licensee binds himself to work energetically for intreducing the
Burmeister & Wain types of Diesel engines in the Territory and by
means of propaganda through advertising eto. to cooperate with
Burmeister & Wain and their mepresentative for the Territory to
promote the sale of the Burmeister & Wain Diesel engines, built
the Licensee or by Burmeister & Wain, Copenhagen.
5.
As remuneration fcr the rights given by this con-
tract the Licensee binds himself to pay Burmeister & Wain a roya

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
on all Diesel engines, whether they are of Burmeister &
design or not, manufactured or dealt in by the Licensee.
royalty to be calculated according to the indicated hore
normal working and normal number of revolutions, the brake
power to be fixed to O.75 times the indicated horse power.
The royalty to be:
1) Aroyalty of 5/-(in worda: Five shillings) per
indicated horee power for each main and auxiliary Diesel engin
Burmeister & Wain's desifn for merchant vessels built or old
the Licensee under the terus of this agreement.
2) A royalty of lc/-(in words) Ten shillings) per
indicated horse power for each main and aux. Diesel engine of
Purmeister & ain's design of high speed, light weight marine
iesel engines for men of var such as cruiser and submarine
built or sold by the icense under the terms of this agremn
During the first ? (two) years of the period covered by thi
ment the royalty is reduced to 7/6 (in words: Seven shilling
and six pence) per lu licatei horse power.
3) A royalty of 4/6 (in words: Four shillings and six
pence) per brake horse power for each Diesel engine of Burmeist
& Wain s design for stationary purposes.
4) A royalty et the rate of:
3/-(in words: Three shillings, per indicated
horse power during the period of this license agreement for
Diesle engine of any other design than urmeister & Wain's

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
6-
factured or dealt in by the Licensee in the said years umdor
terms of this agreement.
When according to this agreement a Diesel engine is
ordered from the Licensee a notice therof shall be posted by re
gistered letter to Burmeister & Wain within eight (8) days
the order has been given. The royalty is payable within 2
from the day of actual delivery of the vessefr of the Diesel
engine.
The royalties above mentioned are based on payment
in Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange valid on the dar of
payment to Danish Kroner. In case the rate of xohange is u
Kroner 18.159 for one Pound Sterling an additionsl royalty
in proportion to the difference in rate of exchange hall
in Pounds Sterling.
The royalties are payable in Bounds Sterling. ut
Copenhagen or other place according to instruction from mm
ster & Wain, but in case Pounds Sterling are not available or
inconveient for payment the Licensee has option to pay the
lent amount(s) of U. S.Do llars and or Danish Kroner, making the
conversions to the equivalent amount(s) at the rate of exchange
valid on the date of payment for Pounds Sterling to U.S.Dollars
and/or Danish Kroner. In case of payment in U.S.Dollars, how
the amount(s) when converted into Danish Kroner shall not be 
than the equivalent of the Sterling amount(s) payable converted

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
into Danish Kroner at the current rate of exehange and
than one Pound Sterling equal to Danish Krener 1s.159.
All payments are to be made net cash at Cepenhagen
free of any taxes and other payments if any.
6.
Per the drawingscef the main mngines,
engines, special toole (Jigs etc) and seneral
gments,
delivered to the Licensee from Burmeister & Wain - provided
drawings have been prepared previously - the ceet ef repredust
and forwarding are to be paid. Burmeister & Wain are to dalla
on request of the Licensee all such drawings of the Diesel
types necessary for starting the manufacture.
If the Licensee wants drawings of Diesel engines or
of engine arrangements, calculations eto. whioh at that time
not been made by Burmeister & Wain, such shall if possible be
delivered by Burmeister & Wain at their earliest convenienee,
the expenses incurred to be changed the Licensee.
All drawings are to be paid for in net cash.
7.
This agreement is irrevocable until the 13th of
August 195l, and after this time it may be terminated with half
a year's notice. In the event of the cooperation being mutually
satisfactory, the Licensee shall have the option to renew the
contract on such terms and for such a period as
beagreed

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
through negetiation between the parties coneermed.
In case of essential breach by one of the parties,
then the other party during the period of irreveeability
contract may also denounce same to expiration with a
3 months.
By any cessation of the contract the Licensee is
bound to return to Burmeister & Wain as soon as pomsible and
without compensation all drawings, specifications ete. suppl
for the construction of Diesel engines according to the syot
of Burmeister & Wain.
The cessation of the contract is without any effeet
on the claim due fer parment after the cessation.
8.
On each Diesel engine made according to the design
of Burmeister & Wain, a nameplate had to be fixed stating
the Diesel engine in question is die te the system of Burme
& Wain, Copenhagen, Denmark.
9.
This contract may not be transferred by the Licensee
without having beforehand obtained consent from Burmeister & Wad
nor is the Licensee entitled to appo int Sub-Licensees.
However, it is agreed and understood that the
Licensee grants and delegates all his rights with obligations
under this agreement lusively to his affiligted company
KABUSHIKI KAISHA TAMA ZOSENSHO, Tamano-si, Okayama-Ken, Japn.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
In the event of any difference or disagreement
between the parties hereto, arising ou of or connested with
this contract or the performance of the obligations hereef
by either of the parties hereto, such difference on request
of either party in writing, shall be submitted te and determimes
by arbitration of three disinterested parties, the arbitration
to be in Copenhagen. Each party hereto appoints one, and the
two so chosen appoint the third arbitrator, the appointment of
the first two by the respectie parties to be made within 2
months after the said request for arbitration and the appoint-
ment of the third arbitrator by the two chosen by the partiem
shall be within 3 months after the said written request for
arbitration.
If the two arbitrators first appointed fail to
agree on the appointment of the third arbitrator or if one of
the parties omit to choose one of the two first arbitrators the
third arbitrator or respectively the second arbitrator is
appointed by the chairman of the Marine & Commeroial Court at
Copenhagen, and in case of his refusal by the Committee of the
Merehants Guild at Copenhagen.
Thereafter the said three arbitrators being given
ll autherity te cause witnesses and aid
receive and consider such evidence as they deem pertinent to the
ismue and bear and determine the entire matter in controversy,
such determination and award to be made in writing latest s months

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
After the appointment of the third arbitrater. If me are
siven within this period or the court of arbitratiem has met
appointed within the period stated above, either party
recourse to the courts in Copenhagen, the jurisdiction ef whish
both parties are subject to. The arbitral award is definitive
and both parties are mubject to the decision of same.
The costs of the arbitration shall be paid as the
arbitrators may decide. The agreement has to be considered
made in Denmark and to be subject to Danish Law and Justice.
11.
This agreement is the fiaal agreement and merves
to replace the agreement of 7th September 1928.
12.
Of this agreement two(2) copies have been made
out and exchanged between the parties.
Each of the parties concerned has to bear his costs
in connection with the necessary stamping of this agreement
according to the laws of his country.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have here-
under set their hands and seals.
June. 17, 1941.
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Ltd.
R. Ishida.
Managing Director.
S. H. Nyholm
Representative of
a s Burmeister & Wain's
Maskin - og Skibsbysgeri.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.94)
SUPPLEENTARY AGREEONT
This AGREEmENT made between MITSUI BUBSAN KANA
LIMITED, of Tokio, Japan. (hereinafter called MITsUX)
the one part, and URMEISTER  WAIN'S MASKIN - G 
of Copenhagen, Denmark (hereinafter called BuRmErstay
th
other part, es a supplement to the Ageney Agreement terd imte
between the parties her to on the 4th day of September ls
(which MITSUI & COMPANY, LIMITE), of 31/33 Lime Street, Lomdon,
E.c.s, exeouted on behalf of their Head Office, viz. uI)
and the License greement entered into between the said parties
simultaneously with this  up lementary Agreement, WHRT IT IS
DECLARED AND AGRE D AS FOLLOUS:
1.
ITSUI shall, ns sole agents in Japan of BURMEISTERs.
always work to the best of their abilities to sell Diesel engime
manufactured in Copenhagen by BURMEISTERS when they oan not sell
engines of BUR EIST RS design built by Kabushiki Kaisha Tama
Zosensho under the License Agreement. In case Diesel engines of
any other makes than URtEI T RS are specified by any oustomer in
the Territory, ITsI have right to deal in such engines without
obtaining Burmeisters' consent as stipulated in paragraph 3
Agenoy Agreement, but Mitsui shall pay Burmeisters for suoh deal-
ing ths royalty stipulated in rticle 5, passage 2, part 4 of the
License Agreement for dealing in iesel engines of ther design
than Burmeisters' and Mitsui shall only quate those ongines as an

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
alternative to Kabushiki Kaisha Tama Zosensho's make of Bu
design and Burmeisters' make.
2.
Both parties will try to contimae the Ageney Agrememt
at least during the periof of the License Agreement.
S.
In case the Agency Agreement expires before the tormime
tion of the License Agreement due to notice from Burmeister in
accordance with Paragreph 1l of the Agency Agreement, Mitsui ean
after the expiration of the said Agreement deal, on commission
basis only, in Diesel engines of other design than Burmeisters
without payment of th rayelties stipulated in artiole 5, pessage
2, part 4 of the License Agreement for such dealing, oxcopt Diesel
engines of other design which are dealt in direotly or indireetly
for the use of or installation executed by Kabushiki Kaishs Tama
Zosensho or any concern affiliated with Mitsui, for which engimes
the said royalty must be paid under the terms of the Lionse
Agreement.
In oese the Agenoy Agreement expires before the
termimation of the License Agreement due to notice from Mitiin
accordanoe with paragreph 1l of th Agenoy Agreement, Mitsui shall
pay the royalty stipulated in the License Agreement without excop
tion during the period of the License Agreement.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
Mitsui shall in all cases when
deal in Diesel engines of other make or desigm than
notify Burmeisters without delay regarding these trems
and as far as possible furmish all informations regaraing the
rospective contract and specifications.
5.
This agreement shall remain in foree until
of both the Agency Agreement and the Licese Agreement 
be subject to the erbitration clauses provided in artiele 10
the License Agreement.
6.
This supplementary agreement is the final mple
agreement and serves to replace the supplemertary agreememt
entered into between the parties hereto on the sevonth day or
September 1928.
Of thi: agreement two (s) cepies have been mede out
and exchanged between the parties.
Each of the parties concerned have to bear his costs
in connection with the necessary stamping of this agrooment
according to the laws of his country.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the partieS hereto he
under set their hands and seals.
JUNE 17, 1941.
Mitsui Bussan Kaishe, Ltd.
R. Ishida
Managing Direotor.
Tokio, October 8th 1941.
S. H. Nyholm
This supplementary Agreement with License Agreement, which
duly signed by Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, Ltd., Tokio, on Juno 
194l, are signed and sea led by me on behalf of Aktiem
Burmeister & Wain's Maskin - oz Skibsbyggeri, Copenhagm,
lawfulpower ofattorney received by me on October th, 19
through the Regal Danish Legation, Tokio.
S. H. nyholm
Representative
A/s Burmeister &
Maskin - oSkibsbye

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.97)
business in the Towm of East Hartferd, State of Ge
eut, United states of first part, and MItaur mussa
a corporation organised md existing umder the lams ef
State of New York, United States of Ameriea, having its
No.350 rifth Avenue, Borough of Manhattan, City  Now
York in the said State of New York (hereinafter rederred
to as' "yitsui"), party of the second part,
WITNESSETH,
WHEREAS by written instrument dated April 5, 1934
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Lieemse")
Hamilton Standard Propeller Company, a corporation erge-
nised nd existing under the laws of the State of Dele
ware, United States of America having its prineipal plase
and conditions, therein set forth, upon Mitsul, a lieemse
to manufasture, sell, lease and/or nse prepellers, fer a
more particular desoription-of the terms of whioh lieense
reference shall be had to said written instrument, and
WHEREAS United has succeeded to all the rights and
duties of said Hamilton Standard Propeller Company under
said agreement and
WHEREAS the parties deem it desirable to amend said
agreement in certain respects,
NOW THEREFORE:
In consideration of the premises and of the mutual
promises and covenants hereinafter contained, it is
hereby agreed as follows:
ARTICLEI
Section l. Article I of said License is bereby
amended by adding thereto the following paragraph to be
lettered (1):
(i) The term "Affiliated Company of United" shall
mean any corporation of whieh a ma jority of the ontstand-
ing share capital shall from time to time be owned or
controlled by United and shall alse mean any corporation
which shall from time to time own a majority of the out
standing share capital of United.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
Lieensed territory shall have the right at any time er times to
ship out of the Lioensed Territory and to sell,
lease and/er use outside the Lieensed Territory complete air-
with ane Licensed propeller which shall have been mamufastered
in smch airoraft.
Section 3. Artiele II, Seotion 2, Paragraph (b) of said
License shall be amended to read as follows:
(b) That any manufacturer engaged in manufacturing air-
craft or airoraft engines within the Licensed Territory and,
subjeot to the Gonsent of Mitsui, any dealer in airoraft or
airoraft engines engaged in business within the Licensed terri-
tory shall have the right at any time or times to ship or take
out, to sell, lease and/or use outside the Licensed territery
each engine having as part of its bona fide initial equipment
one Licensed propeller whioh shall have been manufactured by
Mitsui.
Section 4. Artiole II, Seotion 2, Paragraph (e) of said
Lioense shall be amended to read as follows:
(e) Whenever any airoraft manufactured within the Licemsed
Territory having as part of its bona fide initial equipment me
Lieensed Pmeprller manufactured by Mitsui for each engime
installed in sueh aircraft or mny airoraft engine manufastured
within the Licensed territory having as part of its initial bema
fide equipment one Licensed Propeller manufactured by Mitsui
shall have been shipped or brought into any territory outside
the Licensed Territory pursuant to any of the provisions of
Paragraphs (a), (b) and (o) respectively ef this Seetion 2,
Mitsui, any manufacturer engaged in manufacturing aireraft or
airoraft engines within the Licensed Territory, and, subjeet to
the consent of Mitsui, any dealer in airoraft or airoraft engimes
engaged in business within the Licensed Territory shall have the
right to ship into, sell or lease within such territory outside
the Licensed Territery
(i) such spare or peplacement Licensed Propellers as my
bona fide, properly and reasonably be required for use
in connection with such airoraft or sueh airoraft
engine, and
(11)
such spare and replacement parts for sueh Lieensed
propellers as may bona fide, properly and reaseonably
be required for use therein in conneotim with swch
Licensed propeDers,

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.97)
but net otheruise.
geatiem 2. Artiole II, Section 3, Paragraph (a) as harehy
amended to read as follows:
(a) That United, any Affiliated Compamy ef United, ay
mamnfasturer engaged in manuf aoturing aireraft outside the
lease and/or use within the Licensed territery cemplete airerart
manufaatured outside the Licensed Territery having as part af
its bona fide initial equipment one Licensed Propeller which
shall have been manufactured by United, or amy Affiliated Compamy
of United, or under license granted by United outside the Li-
without the censent of United, or, in cases where United shall
have granted an exclusive liomse for the territory in whish
such dealer is engaged in business, the consent of such lieemses.
Section 6. Article II, Section 3, Paragraph (b) of satd
License shall be amended to read as follows:
(b) That United, any Affiliated Company of United, any
manufacturer engaged in manufacturing airoraft or airoraft en-
gines outside the Licensed Territory and any dealer in aireraft
or airoraft engines engaged in business outside the Licensed
Territory shall have the right at any time or times te ship er
bring into and to sell, lease and/or use within the Licensed
Territory, eaoh engine having as part of its bona fide initial
equipment a Liocensed propeller which shall have been manufastured
either by United, or by an Affiliated Company of United, er
under a License granted by United outside the Licensed territery:
provided, however, that no such dealer may exeroiss suck right
without the consent of United, or, in cases where mited shall
have granted an exclusive license for the territory in whieh
such dealer is engaged in business, the consent of such lieeases.
Beataon 7. Artiole II, gection 3, Paragraph (e) of said
License shall be amended to read as follows:
(e) That whenever any hiroraft having as part of its
bona fide initial equipment one Licensed Propeller manafaetured
outside the Licensed Territory by United, any Affiliated Gempamy
of United, or under a license granted by United outside the
Licensed Territory, for eaoh engine installed in suoh aireraft
or any airoraft engine having as part of its bona fide initial
equipment one Licensed Propeller manufactured outside the
Licensed erritory by United, any Affiliated Company of United,

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
inte, sell er lease within the Licensed rerritery
(1) such spare or repracement Licensed Propellers as 
be bona fide, properly and reasonably required fer
use in connection with such airoraft or smek akrerafs
engine, and
(1
such spare and replacement parts for such Licemsed
Propellers as may be bona fide, properly and rease
ably required for use in conneotion with such
Licensed Propellers,
previded, however, that no sueh dealer may exeroise such right
without the consent of United, or, in cases where United shall
have granted an exolusive license for the territory in whieh
and the omer, leasee or user thereof shall have the right to
use such spare and replacement Licensed Fropellers in cennsettem
with such airoraft and airoraft engines and to use sueh spars
and replasement parts in connection with such Licensed propellers,
but not otherwise.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.96)
ANTXGE_XX
 It is understoed and asreed, sinee uni
(a) The de Havilland Airoraft Compamy, Ltd. fer the
British Empire, exoept Canadaj
(b) Societe prancaise Hispano Suisa, for rmes;
(0)
Societe Anonimar.I.A.T., for the Kingdem of Italy
and her colonies;
(d) junkers Flugzeug-Und-Motoren Werke, for ermamy:
(•) Svenska Aeroplan Aktiebolaget, for sweden:
(f) Panstwowe Zaklady Lotniose, for Poland,
that the amandments hereinbefore set forth in Artiole I bereef
shall confer mo rights upon Mitsui to ship into said territeraes
not conferred by ssid original license, nor shall said lieenseem
have any rights by virtue of said amendments to ship into the
Licensed Territory Licensed Fropellers not conferred by said
original lisnse unless and until Mitsui has been notified by
United that said licensee or licensees have exeouted similar
amendments of their license agreements or that their liense
agreements have been terminated; and upon suoh notiogsaid
amemdments shall be fully effective as to the licensee referred
to in suoh notice, and the territory covered by the license ef
such licensee.
Seation 3. Except as herein modified said original license
agreement of April 5, 1934 between Mitsui and United's predeseseer
is hereby ratified and confirmed.
IN WITNESS WHEREDF the parties hereto have caused this
instrument to be executed in duplioate by their duly autherised
and empowered officers or representatives as of the day and year
first abeve written.
For and on behalf of
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Novemberlst, 1939
(signed)
By
Raycroft Walsh, viee Presidemt
For and on behalf of
MITSUI BUSSAN KAISHA, LTD.
By
(signed)
H. Yoshida

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
AGREEMENT, thi: 5th day of Apr11, 1954. between
HAMILTON STANDARD PROPELLER COEPANY,  OFPOP1  
extwting under the Taws of thc State of Delaware, United states ef
Ameriea, having its principal place of busineso in the Tome ef East
Hartford, state of onneoticut, United States of Ameriea (hereim-
after referred to as the " icensor"), party of the firet part, amd
ITSI BUSSAH AI HA, LTD. (Alo kno, in AmeriGa.  MItI &
Co., Ltd."), a corporation organized andexisting under the lawe of
the Empire of Japan, duly authorized to do business in the State
of New York, United States of America, having its head effiee in
the City of Tokyo, Japan, and a branch office at No.0 ifth
Avenue, Borough of Ymnhattan, City of New York, in the said state
of New York (hereinafter referred to as the "Licensee"), party of
the mecond part
IN CONSIDERATIC of the paymente to be made by the Licensee
to the Licensor in the amounts and manner hereinafter provided, and
of the mutual promiees hereinafter set forth, TH? FARriES HERETo
HEREBY AORPE as folloms:
AIUI1.
DEFINITIONO
The following definitiona shall apply to the terme employed
in this Agreement, wherever soch terms are so employed, respeotive
ly, unless a different meaning te cleariy indicated by the context:
(a) The term,  icensed ropollere", ahall mean light-metal
tlade controllatle-pitch propellere of any design or model which
at any time during the term f the lioense granted ty this Agre
ment may be manufacturen commercially ty the -isemmori provided,
that no propeller of any design or model and no propeller embody-
ing ans improvement in desin or construction ahall at amy time
ce deemed to be a  icensed : ropeller for any purpose of this
Agreement unless and until the overnment of the United States
of merica shall haveapproved and consented to the commercial
export of propellers of such desien or model or embodying sueh
improvement into the Licensed Territory, as herein defined. The
tern, "light-metal tlade controllatla-pitch propellers", as used
in this paragraph (a), shall mean aeronautical propellers of the
hydro-centrifugal controllacle-piteh type, having blades of
aluminium, magnesium or other light metals or alloye thereof,
solid throughout the outer half of their length, and having hubs
of éteel so designed that the pitch of the tlades may te chenged
from one position to another oy means of hydraulic pressure.
and the pitch changed in the reverse direction by the action of
centrifugal foroe, while in flight; but there shall not be inolnd-
ed within the meaning of the said term any propellers having
olades of mood, micerta or steel, whether or not of the contrell-
able-pitch type, or any propellers in which the hub is integral
with one or more of the blades or in which two or more blades
are integral with each other, or any propellers having blades of
which the pitch is adjustatle on the ground only, or otherwise
adjustatle or controllable in any manner except by the applieat-

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
iom of hyáro-centrifagal ferces.
(b) The tera, Lieensed Partes, shall mem aay mpere er
replacement parts for any Licensed Propeller.
(e) The term, "Licensed Product", shall ineluded in its
meaming any and all Licensed Fropellers and Lieensed parte.
(d) The term, "Licansed Territory", shall meam only (1)
the territory embraced within the present limits of The Empire ef
Japen including Korea (Chosen) and Dairen, with immediately eem-
tiguous territory now under direct control of the Impertal Japamese
Government, and (ii) the territory embraced within the prememt
limits of the State of Manchukuo.
(e) The term. "License", shall mean the party of the
second part hereto, and also any and all parsons to whom the par-
ty of the second part ahall grent suc-licenses under this Agree-
ment with the written approval of the Licenser, which written
appreval shall be a condition precedent to the validity of mmy
such sat-lioensee; provided, that the Licensor hereby approves
the granting by the party of the pecond part to the Sumltome
Steel Tube and Copper oriks, Itd., of the City of Csaka. Japm.
of a non-assignable sub-license under this Agreement.
(f) Worda and clauses employed in the diejunotive order
ahall be deemed to te employed also in the conjunotive order, md
vice versa.
(g) vords importing persons shall include also forms, assoo
1ations and corporations.
(h) ords importing the singular number shall also inolude
the plural number, and vice verea.
ARTIGIII.
Seetion 1. The Licensor hereby srants to the Licmeee, upon
the terms and conditions and sutject to the limitations, reserve
tions and rights of termination herein eet forth, the exalusive
rights or license for the term or period of ten years, cemmenoing
Apr11 5th, 1934, nd ending April 4th, 1944, to manufacaure, mel1
or otherwise dispose of any and all of the Licensed Freduet within
the Licensed Territory, but not clsewhere, except as herein other-
wise expressly provided; provided. that if any time any pereon not
within the control of the Licensor shall, without the proeurement
or consent of the Licenser, mhip into or sell or otherwiee dispose
of within the Licensed Territory any of the Licensed Propmot, mmch
shipment, sale or other disposition thereof shall not be deemed to
be a olation of the exslusive right granted to the Lieensee by
the provisions of this greement, and the Licensor shall be under
no liatility or rosponsicility to the Licensee with respect thereto.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
The right or lieense herety granted ineludes the right at all
times during the term of this Agresment to make wse of within the
pellers, er amy part or parts thereof, which may, from time te time,
be covered by letters patent, or applications therefer, omed er
controlled by the License-within the Licensed Territery; prevideds
that the Licensee shall have no recourse against the Lieeneor fer
any loss, liatility, damages or costs which may at any time be
suffered or incurred oy the Licensee by reason or in consequenee of
the exereiee by it of any of the rights granted or purported er es
pressed to be granted hereunder, or by reason of my suit or pre
ceeding against the  icensee by any third person beceuse er in een-
sequence of any such use, or by reason of the institution, presses-
tion ordefense of any suoh suit or proceeding, it teing expressly
agreem and stipulated that the  icensor makes no representation er
warranty of any character with respect to any rights kereby granted
or purported or expressed to te granted cy it to the Lieensee er
with respeot to the validity or incontastatility of my patents or
patent rights. Nevertheless, in case of the institution of my mit
or proceeding involving the validity of any patents or patent rights
omed or controlled by the icensee or ny a third person, the Lieen-
ses shall give to the iicensor prompt notice of the institution
thereof, and, at the request of the Licensor, shall permit the Li-
censor to intervene therein in such manner as it may ce advised fer
the proteotion of any of its rights or interests affected by meh
suit or proceeding; provided. that the  icensor shall not te under
any duty or responsibility to the Licensee so to interveme.
Section 2. Anything herein contained to the contrary not-
withstanding, the Licenmor expressly sgrees as follows:
(a) That my manufacturer of airplanes emgaged in business
within the Lioensed Territory shall have the right at my tme or
times to ship out of the Licensed Territory and to sell, lease
and or use outside the Licensed Territory complete airplanes mamu-
factured by it within the Licensed Territory and equipped at the
time of ahipment with one or more ~icensed ropellers which shall
have been manufaotured by the iicensee.
(t) That any manufacturer of airplane engines emgaged in
cusiness within the -icensed Territory shall have the right at amy
time or times to ahip out of the Licensed Territory and to sellor
lease outside the -icensed Territory airplane engines manufactured
within the -icensed Territory, each mgine having as part of ite
initial gone fide equipment  Licensed ropeller which shall have
been manufactured by the i.icensee.
(c) That any airplane equ1pped with one or more Licensed
Propellers manufactured ty the Licensee may at any time or times
be flom across or landed in any territory outside the Licensed
Territory.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
(d) That any purchaser, omer or lessee ef y airpl
airplane engine shipped out of the Licensed Territory, or flom
aaross or landed in any territory outside the Lieansed Territory
(e) That, in case the Licensor or a licensee of the Lieem
sor liasmsed by it to manufacture Licensed Propellers within
the territory into which an airplane or airplame engine shall
theretofore have been shipped or brought pureuant te amy of the
provisions of paragraphs (a), (c) and (c), respectively, of this
Seetion 2, shall te unable or unwilling to supply on oustomary
terme and conditions epar r replacement parts for ay Lieemsed
Propeller forming part of the eguipment of mch airplene or air
plane engine, the Licensee shall have the right to ship inte.
sell or lease within such territory spare or replacement parts
bona fide intended for use in connection with sueh Licensed Peo-
peller, and the owmer or leasee thereof shall have the right
to use such part or parts, but only in connection with meb
Licensed Fropeller.
No person shall be under any liability or responsibility to
the Licensor or to any licensee of the  icensor for my payment,
as demages, royalty or otherwise, with reapect to any Licensed
propeller or part thereof shipped out of the Licensed Territery.
or mold, leased or used outeide the Licensed Territory. pursuent
to any of the provisions of this Jection 2.
Section . nytning herein contained to the contrary not
withatanding, the Licensee expressly agress as follows:
(a) That any manufacturer of airplanes engaged in business
outside of the Licensed Tsrritory shali have the right at any
time or times to ship or tring into, sell, lease and/er use with-
in the Licensed Territory complete alrplanes manufactured by it
outside the Licensed Territory and equipped at the time of entry
into the Licemsed Territory with one or more Licensed Propellere
whioh shall have teen  anufactured ty the Licensor or under a
licensee granted by the Licensor outside the Licensed Territory.
(b) That any manufacturer cf airplane engines engeged in
business outside the Licensed Territory shall have the right at
any time or times to ship or bring into and to sell or lease
within the Licensed Territory airplane engines manufactured out-
side the Licensed Territory, each engine having as part of its
initial tona fide equipment a -icenaed ropeller mhich shall have
been manufactured by the -icensor or under a license granted by
the ticensor outaide thenLicensed Territory.
(o) That any airplane manufactured outside the Licensed
Territory and equipped with one or more Licensed Propellers man-
ufaetured outside the Licensed Territory either ty the Licensor
or under a license granted by the Licensor may at ny time or
times te flom aoross or landed in any part of .the Licensed
Territory.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
the Licensed Territory the Licensed Fropeller or Propellere wi
which such airplane or airplane engine was equipped at the time
the same was prought into the Liceneed Territory.
(e) That, in case the Licenses shall be unable or umwill-
ing to supply on customary terms and conditions spare or replase-
ment parta or ny icensed ropeller forming part of the egaip-
ment of any airplane or airplane engine theretofore shipped or
brought into any part of the Licensed Territory pursment te my
of the provisions of paragraphs (a), (t) and (e), reepeetively.
of this Seotion , cither the Licensor or the original mmufao-
turer or such Licensed  ropeller (if a licensee of the Lieemser)
shall have the right to mhip into, sell or lease within the
Licensed Territory epare or replacement parts poneefide intended
for use in connection with suon Licansed ropeller, and the
owmer or lessee thereof shall have the right to use sueh parts,
but only in conneotion with such icensed  mopeller.
No person ahall te under any liatility or responsibility to
the Licenaee for my payment, as damages, royalty or otherwice,
with respect to any -icensed ropeller or part thereof shipped or
crought into, sold, leased or used within the -icensed Territory
pursuant to any of the proviaions of this ~ection .
Section 4. The Licansor also expressly reserves to itself
the right at my time or times to grant to any person or persons
within the Licensed Territory rights or licenses to manufacture,
sell or othermise dispose of propellers of any one or more types,
designe or models other than prepailars with raspect to which ex
clusive rights or licenses for the manufacture, sale or dher di
posal thereof shall at the time pe owmed or controlled ty the
.icensee under grant from the Licensor. in case of the grent of
any such rights or licenses under the right herety reserved to
the Licensor, the Licensor shall ts free to furniah to the grantee
thereof any and all design date and technical or other assistance
which may te required or convenient in the design and manufacture
of the prepellers with reapect to which such rights or licenses are
aranted.
ATTICLE III
DESION DATA AND TFOENICAL ASSISTANCE
IN THE DESION AND LANUFACTURE OF LICENSED PROPELLERS
Section 1. Within one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreememt, the Licensor shall deliver to the
Licensae at its tranch ofrice, No.e Fifth avenue, sorough ef

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.95)
。6-
Kanhattan, City nd state of New Yerk, detailed witten mstrm
tions, in duplicate, relative to the desigm, mamafasture 
tamance of Lieemsed Propellers, as fellems:
(a) All such design data and technioal informatiem as may
to the Lieensor in the manufacture of Lioensed Propellers, imelm
ing the following:
(1) A detailed description of the methoda mployed 
the Licensor in caloulating the strength of the Lieemsed
Fropellers by ths method of stress analysis and empirieal
rules atruotural design as a result of the Lioenser's ex
tensive experience in the construction of propeller blades
ands.
(t0 Such aarodynamic date as may be deemed by the Li-
cemsor to be necessary to anmble the Licensee to produee de?
signs for Licensed ropellers of satisfactory effieiemey
for various comtinations of airplanes and engines, inolnd-
ing details and methods used in the aerodynamio desim of
suoh propellers.
() Detailed specificatione of the materials mterime
into the manufacture of Licensed ropellers, together. with
the mechanical properties necessary for such materials.
including teohnical informstion for the manufasture of meh
materials, in so far as such information is knomm to the
:icenzor and to the extent that the Licensor is free to
give snan specifications and information.
() etailed working drawings covering the design of
the blades and hubs of the -toensed  ropellers as now manu-
factured oommercially y the Licensor.
(v) A detalled statement of the manufacturing tolermee
limite deomed ty the vicensor to be neceasary in the inapee-
tion of the blades and huts of Licenaed Fropellere.
(b) Detailed information with respeot to methods employed
by the Licensor in the manufacture of -icensed Fmopellers, inelud-
ing the following:
(1) A detalled desoription of the method at present
employed in the manufacture of Licensed Propellers.
(a) A detailed list of machine tools employed in sueh
manufactare, giving a description of the type of saoh toel
and the name of the manufacturer thereof.
(m) A deteiled l1at of the special machine toels,
jigs and fixtures developed by the Licensor and now emp-
loyed by it is the manufacture of Licensed Propellers, toge-
ther with mch drawings of such tools, jigs and fixtures
as the Licensee may reasonably require.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
(s) A detailed desoription of special gauges required
for inspecting and cheaking Lioensed Propellers, tegether
with such drawings of the said gauges as the Lisensee may
reasonably require.
(v) Detailed operation sheets covering the operations
entering into the manufacture of various items of the blades
and huts of the Liceneed ropellers.
(c) etailed information with respect to the methode mployed
by the Licensor in the inspection and maintenance of Lioneed
Propellere in service.
Section 2. The Licensor ahall, so fará as reasonably pree-
ticable, essist the Licensee in developing its source of materials
entaring into the manufacture of Licensed : ropellers, except that
materials purchased in the United States of merica ahall be pur-
chaed from and inspected ty the -icensor, If thereto requested
by the Licensee, the Licensor shall, so fer as reasonably prao-
ticatle, upply forgings of tlades and huts for the manufacture
of Licensed rropellers, at such prices and on such conditions as
may te mutually agrred upon from time to time.
Section 3. From time to time, during the period of thee
years next wubsequent to the date of this toreement, the Lieeneee
shall have the right to submit to the icensor lists of the combi-
nations of standard typos of airplanes end engines for whieh the
Licensee may desire designs of Licensed ropellers, and the Lieen-
aor shall, as expeditiously as practicacle and without cost to the
Licensee, furnish to the iicenses clueprint coples of suoh exiet
ing designs of Licensed ropellers, t pether with forging drewinge
therefor and specifications thereof, as, in the Judgment of the
icensor, shall be suitable for use in such combinations, so far
ae auch designs, drawinge and specifications are available, or
in case where exieting designs of ; icenaed ropellers are not wite
ble, in the judgment of the iicensor, for use in any one or more
particular combinations of etandard types of airplanes and propell-
ers believed to be suitatle for use in such combinationa; provided.
that the icaneee shall pay to the icensor, at or beforsthe delivery
of the respective special designs. the sue of c0.00 for such
special design of tiade, and the sum of s. for each special
design of hut.
Saction 4. from time to time, during the period of three
years from the date of this greement, the Licensor shall, at the
request of the Licensee, review any and all designs produced by the
icensee which may ce submitted to the Liceneor for that purpose.
and suall make such recowmandatione with respect thereto, inoluding
criticisms thereof and suggestions of ahanges therein, as in the
judgment of the Liceneor may be desiraolefrom the standpoint of
Bafety and aerodynemic efficiency.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.95)
a
at its omm expense, to sause two engineers and twe prodmetien em
perts to visit the plant of the Licensor for instruetien in the
desien and method of manufacture of Licensed ropellere fer met
exceeding four months, in the aggregate, during the peried cemmeme-
ing with the date of this Agreement and ending Februery 28, 1935.
Subject, also, to such government regulations as may, frem time
to time, te in effect, the Licensee shall have the right, at its
omn expense, to cause one engineer or one production expert to
visit the said plant for not exceeding two weeke, in the aggresate.
during each succeeding period of. twelve months after Febreary 28.
195, for the purpose of studying the design and constreetion of
any improvements then covered ty the license granted by this ¿gree-
ment which may have been emoodied in or applted to Lieeneed Prope
llere.
Section 5. The Lioensor shall, if thereto requested by the
Licensee, endeavor to make arrangements for sending a produetion
expert to the Licensee's plant to assist the Licenses in initiat-
ing the manufacture of Licensed ropellera; provided that the
Licensee shall be responsible for and shall pay the salary and
expense charges of suah engineer, including travelling expenses
incurred in travelling in sach direction between Hartford, Connee-
tiout, and Tokyo, Japan; and provided, that, the payment of the
salary of much engineer ahall te pais in curreney of the United
tatee of America or in Japanese currency, or partly in the one
ourrency and partly in the pther, at the election of the Liemser,
from timo to tims.
Coction 7. Anything herein contalned to the contrary not
withstanding, the -icensor ahali not Da under any responsibility or
liability to the Licensee fer or in consequence of any mistake or
any error of judgment on the part of the Licensor or of oy of its
officers or employees in or in connection with or with rempeet to.
any design, design data, specification, drewing, calculation, des-
cription, atatement, recommendation or advice furniahed, siven or
made to the Licenseo pursuant to an, of the proviaions of this
Article Ill.
ARTICLE IV.
LICELSE FEES AND HDYALTIES
Section 1. in consideration of the license rights hereby
granted to the Licensee, as set forth in Artiole II hereof, the
Licensee agrees to make the following payments to the Lioensor:
(a) As and for an initial license fee, the Liceneee shall
pay to the Licensor the sum of Forty-Five Thousand Dollars
($45.000.00) as fo11ows:

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9 -
(1) $11, 250 at the t ime of the eecutlem and dezavery
of this agreement, the recsipt of whish sm is herekg
nowledged by the Licensor;
(11) $11, 250 at the time of the delivery to the Lieemeee
of the manufacturing data and technical information previded
for in Seetion 1 of Article I1l hereof;
(a1) 11,250 on the date on which the manufacture of Li-
censed Propellers siall be commenced ty the Lieensse, er, in
my event, within ine months after the date of this Agree-
ment, and
() 11,250 within wix months after the date upen which
the first test of propellere menufactured ty the Lleensee
under this greement shall have teen completed, or, in my
avent, not later than one year after the date of this Agree
ment.
(b) Cn or before  aroh 1, 175, and on or before Mareh 1
in each ealandar year theresfter, to and including Barch 1, 1939.
the Liconsee shall pay to the Licenaor the sum of
Two Thoueand Five Hundred ~ollars (2.50.00)
in consideration of mhich payment the Licensor shall, from time
to time, during the term of this agreomont, furnish to the
:icensee manufacturing data and technioal information (similar
to that provided for in ection 1 of Article III hereof) with
respect to any improvements then covered ty the tieense granted
by thie igreement which may te embodied in or applied to Licens-
ed ropellers, not ineluding, however, except as herein other-
wise provided, any data or information with respeet to the deviee
or improvement non in course or development, knom as the *Cen-
stant peed ontrol".
(e) When and if the Covernment of the United States of
America shall have approved and consented to the commercial ex
port into the Licensed erritory of propellers embodying the
devioe of improvement known as tas "Constant Speed Control".
the Licensor agrees to extend the license granted by this Agree
ment to cover such devics or improvsment, and the Lioeneee
agrees to pay the rafor, es an dditional license fee, the m
of Twelve Thousand Five Hundeed Dollars (S12.S00) of which sum
15,00 whall te paid within thirty (30) days after the Licen-
sor shall have given to the  icensee written notice that the
said approval and consent has teen granted ty the Government of
e mited States of merics, and the balance thereof shall be
paia in five (5) annual installments of S15oc, each, respective-
ly payable at the and of one, two, three, four and five yeare
after auch notice shall have been given. At the time of the
payment of the first instalment of $5o00 on account of mch
additional license fee, the Licensor shall deliver to the Lieem-
see, with respect to such "Gnstent Speed Control", mamnfao-
turing data and technical information similar to that provided
for in Section 1 of article IlI hereof.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10-
ARTICLEV.
SPECIAL AGRECMENTS OF THE LICENSEE
Section l. The Licensee recognimes the validity ef my md
all patents and patent rights now or at any time hereafter ommed
or controlled by the Licensor covering the Lieensed Preduet or my
part thereof within the Licensed Territory.
Tection 2. The Licensee shall comply with all the Liem
sor's reasonatle requiraments as to parking the product mmefee-
tured, shipped, sold or otherwiee disposed of by the Lieemsee
under the licenee granted by this greement, and, among ether things.
shall attacheto each hut and tlade so manufaosured and shipped
by it an appropriate legend to the effeot that such produet was
manufactured ander licenae from the Lioensor.
The Licensee shall not, however, smploy the Licensor's trade mark.
or any colorable imitation thereof, on any ef the Licemsed Prodmet
without the prior written consent of the Licaneor.
Section 3. The Licensee shall not make, manufastare, use.
license sell or otherwiae dispose of, either during the term of
the license granted ty this reement, or at any time after the
termination hereof, any type, modsl or design of aeronautieal pro-
peller, or parts thereof, emtodying the same or aubstantially
similar tasic principles of design or manufacture as these emplyed
in the design or zanufacture of the Liceneed Product or my part
thereof, other than such propellers, or parts thereof, as may be
wanufactured cither pursuant to the licenee, granted by this Agree-
ment or pursuant to ther licenses (if any) granted to the Lieem-
see by the Licensor.
tection 4. ?xcept as herein otherwise expressly provided.
the Licansce shall not at any time sell or export any of the Lieen-
sed product out of the  icensed Territary, or directly or indireet-
ly cause or prooure the same to te so sold or exported; provided.
that. if at any time any person not within the control or in my
way affiliated with the  icensee shall, without the proourement or
conaent of the Licensee, export any of tha Licensed Produet out of
the Licensed Territory, suah exporation shall not be deemed to be
a violation oi this covcnant cy the icensse.
Seetion 'S. The Licengee shall not at any time disolose to
any pereon outside of the Licansed Territory any design data.
technioal information or other information of any charaeter relat-
ing to the desian, manufacture or maintenance of Licensed Prope-
llers, whether such information te received from the Lieensor or
any ef its officers, agents or employees, or shall be information
derived from experience gained by the Licensee in manufacturing
Licensed Fropellera; and the Licsnsee shall not at any time dis-
closs any sueh information to any person within the Licemsed Terri-
tory, other than a person or persons at the time exereising rights
under sublicenses from the Licensee granted with the written app-
roval of the Licensor as provided in paragraph (e) of Artiele I of
this Agreement.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.96)
- 11 -
Section 6. The Licensee shall at all times use iss bemt
afforts to promote the demand for, and use of, the Lieemeed
Produet within the Licensed Territory.
ARTTCLE VI
TERYINATION
Bection I. if at any time the Licensee shall be in defamlt
in making any payment herennder at the time and in the manner
herein provided therefor, or shall te in default in ebeerving or
performing any other agreement or condition herein on the pert of
the Licensee to be obeerved or performed, and amy mueh default
either in payment or in observance or performance shall not have
been remedied within a period of sixty (60) days after noties
thereef shall have ceen siven cy the Licensor to the Lieeneee in
the manner herein provided, then, in any such case, the Lieemser
ahall have the absolute and unconditional right, at its option.
to terminate this greement by giving notice of meh termination
to the Licensee; and, upon the ziving of such noties, this Agree-
ment and all rights of the -icensee hereunder shall immediately
terminate and coms to an end, except as herein otherwise provided.
Section 2. Upon the tormination of this Agrement, etther
at the expiration of the ters of the license hereky granted or
upon notice as provided in ection 1 of this article vI, all rights
to menufacture the Licensse roduct, or any part thereof (inelud-.
ing all rights under any sub-license), shall immediately cease,
exoept that the Lioensee say thereafter complete, sell and ship
any of the Licensed roduct then manufactured or in course of
manufacture ty it at the date of termination. Upon my termine
tion of this Agreement, the Licensee thall forthwith return to the
Licensor eny and all design date, drawings, clue-printe, tille of
materials, specificatione, operation sneets and engineering data
then in its possession tith respect to the Lioensed Produet.
HISOFLLAVECUS PROVISIONS
Jection l. As one of the essential terms of this Agrement,
it Is hereby exprescly stipulated that, except as herein otherwise
expressly protided, the license grented hereby is limited to the
manufaoture and ssle of Licensed  ropellars within the Lioensed
Territory, and to the manufacture and sale within the said terri-
tory of epare and replacement parts for use in or in conneation
with the operation of any propellers so msnufactured nd sold with
in the Licensed Territory, and that nothing herein shall be inter-
preted as authorizing the Licensee to dispose of any propeller
parts for assemtly ty unlicensed manufacturers into complete pro-
peller units or partially complete unite either within the Liceme-
ed Territory, or elsewhere. The Licensee shall te responsible to
the Licensor for ny such unauthorized or unlicensed use of parts.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
- 12-
Seotion 2. Anything herein contained to the eeatrary met
withstanding, any and all payments mhich may at any time be made
by the Licensee to the Licensor hereunder shall be in New Yerk Gity
funde eurrent at the t ime of payment.
Section 3. In case any dispute, disagreement or mismder-
standing shall arise between the parties hereto in eonneetion mith
this Agreement, or with respect to the interpretation of my of
its provisions, such disputa, disagreement or misunderstending
shall be referred to arbitration in the State of Connectiomt, United
States of America, in the following manner:
Each party hereto shall appoint one artitrator, and.the
twe arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third arbitrator:
and the parties hereto agree to accept, stide by and carry out
amy decision arrived at ty a majority of the three arbitratore
so appointed. The cost of any such artitration shall be torme
by the respective parties hereto in such proportions as a ma-
jority of the arbitrators mey determine.
Seetion 4. In addition to any and all other remedies here
by or by law conferred upon the  icensor (whether for the reeovery
of damages in the case of treach of this greement ty the Licensee,
or otherwise), 1t is heraty expressly stipulated that, in ease of
breach or théreatened breach, directly or indirectly, of my of
the provisions of this Agreement on the part of the Lioemsee to
be observed or performed, an injunction may isans omt of my sourt
of competent jurisdiction, upon mhe suit of the Lieensor, rest-
raining the licensee, its successors, assigns and sub-licemsees,
and their respective successors and assigns, from any sueh breach
or threatened treach.
Section 5. mything berein contained to the contrary not-
withstanding, if, at any time prior to the termination of this
Agreement, the licensor shall cecome willing to grant & liemse
for the manufaoture, sale or other disposition within the Licemsed
Territory of any propellers not fallins within the definition of
Lioensed ropellers as set forth in paragraph (a) of irtiele 1
hereof, the Licensor, cefore offering such iicense to any other
party, will offer the same to the -icensee upon auch terms and
conditions as the iicensor shall then ce willing to aeeept. If.
within one hundred and twenty (12u) days after so offering wch
licanse, the parties bereto shall have ue'n unable to agree upon
the terms and conditions thereof, the Liceneor shall thereafter
be free to offer such license to any other person, association,
corporation or governmental department within the Lioensed Terri-
tory, or elsewhere, and, in negotiating with suoh other person,
association, corporation or governmental department, shall be free
to make any and all anch modifications in the terms and conditions
of the license as theretofore offered to the Licensee as the Lieen-
sor shall, in its discretion, deem advisable.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.93)
-13-
Sectien 6. Until further writtem metiee free the La
Mamhattan, City and 3tate of New York, or at its Head Offiee im
the City of Tokyo, Japan, or if sent by cable or radie to the
eable ddress, "WITKIEAI", TCKYO.
Until furter wAtten notice from the Liceneer, amy metive
er communication herein provided to be given by the Lieemsee
shall for all parposes te deemed to be duly given and reseived if
sent by meil, postage prepaid, addressed to the Lieenser et its
prineipal place of business in East Hartford, Conneatieut, United
States of America, or if sent ty catle or radio to the eable
address *STEELFROF", Hartford, Connecticut.
Sestion 7. This Agreament shall be interpreted in aecer-
danee dth the plain English meaning of its teras, and the com-
struotion thered of shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Connectiout, United Statee of merica.
Fection 3. All pronises and agrcements herein contained
by or in behalf of either of the parties herete shall bind and
inure to the tenefit of the respective successors md sssigms of
such parties, whether so expressed or not; provided that the
rights of the Liceneee tereunder ahall not be assignable without
the prior written consent of the Licensor.
IN wITMEss MEnTF, the parties hereto have cansed this
instrument to be executed, in duplicate, oy their duly anthorised
and empewered officers or representatives, in the Tom of East
Hartford, Etate of Connecticut, United States of Ameriea, as of
the day and year first above written.
IIT TANDARD PROPELLR COMPANY
BY
S.. stegart (Siened)
Secretary.
VITDI BUSBAN.KAISHA. LTD.
by
Rci suko Ishide (Signed)

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.92)
AQRT d the 1th day os p. LD. l
BETWREN:
THE CONSOLIDATED MINING AND SMLI
COMYANY OF CANADA, LIMITED,  B
with its Head Offics at Domien
=quare Building in the city ef
Mentreal, in the Frevines of mebed.
and a registered offiee for the
Frovines of British Columbia at the Gity
of Trail in the Said Provinee:
( Hareinafter Called the Vapder)
of the First Part
and
MT  LY  LIRITED.
( Mitsui Mining co.. Ltd.)
a corporation of Japan, with ita
ear ffice at No. i. 2-ohome Muromachi.
ihochashi-ku. in Tokyo. Japan.
i  crcinoiter called the " Purohaser " )
of the second Fart.
WHEn the Vendor has doveloped ond put into sue-
cesaful operation a procens und apparatus for the roasing or
burnine of sulphido wateriul. and in the eourxe of experimental
work in developing caid process and ppur tus andinahe operation
thereof has acquired vuluabla cng inccrine data. kmowledge and
experlenoe in the ethod of operation of said process and
in the oonstruotion'and operation of snid apparatus.
AND WHlt the purehaser desires to obtain the
ang inecrins data. khowledgc und cxpericnce of the vendor. to
the end that it may be enauled to build and uac any and all
said apparatus and uee said proccss throughout Japan and Man
chukuo. to the and that the purohaser ay be enabied to as
certain by actual test the applioability ef the said apparatus
and process to its purposs and. if said prooesr and apparatus
are fonnd successful and retained in operation by the purohaser
to surchase said angineering data. knowlecge and experlenee
upon the terms herainafter set fouth.
 Wh h the Vendor is willin to supply to the
purohaser the aforesaid ane incering data. mowledee and ex-
perience to enable the purohaser to make such a test and
thereafter. if found satisfacoty and ratained in use by the
purohaser. to vell the same to the purohaser upon the terms

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.94)
and eemditions hersinafter set ferth:
MO THRäFORE for and in eonsideration of the s 
One ( $1.00 ). Dollar now paid by the purehaser to the Vemßer
(The reecipt of which the Vandor doth hereby admit and
repkmowledge) and in further considerarion of and cenditional
wpen the trae and faithful performance by the parties berete
of all the undertakings and covenants hereinafter set forth to
be kept and performed. II l HBY MUADLY AGREED 
FOLLOWS:
The yendor hercby agrecs to i ve to the purghaser all
the information. ensincerine dnta and exparience in its
possessionoor power requircd to enublo the purohaser to eon-
struet and put into operation the apparutus and to operate the
procesm generally desoriged as an pparatus and precems for
Roasting or Burning ineral ulphidcs in uspension. in a
manner similar to the method of construetion and operatien
of said roasting or burning upparatus and process for Zine
coneentrates as pruotiscd at the plnt of the Vendor at or
near the City of Tmail.  revinoc of ritish Columbia. Canada.
to enable the purchaser to anke a trial by actual operation
of tho process and apuaratus at itr plant in Japan.
2。
The purahaser herehy arces with the Vendor that in
the avent of the tnal of the aforesaid procens andor appar
atus provine successiul. r in the event of the purohaser son
tinucing to operate thc uforasaid process and or apparatus
after an operutine trial cf cix (6) month: or after a period
of dighteen (l8) wonths frou the datc oí this agrecment. which-
ever ls the shorter period. then it shall be assumed that the
purohaser has noeepted the prooess and or apparatus as a
purohase from the Vendor nd shall pay the Vendor therefor the
sume of meney hereinafter mentioncd as royalties during the
pariod of fisteen (15) ycars from the date of this agreement.
The Vendor hercby anrec with the purohaser that
so long es it shall oarry ous in cood faith the covenante and
agreements herein pct farth. it will give to the pummmmer any
and all further information, cngincering data end experience
that the Vender mau obtain during the caid period of fifteen
(1s) years to the end that any improvaments in the said
apparatus and prooess that way come to the powledge of or be
put in use by the Vamter may be available to the purchaser.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.96)
It is mutaually agreed betweem the partiss herete
that the aforesaid information, engimeering data and expertems
to be supplied, given and or granted to the Purehaser by the
Vemdor shall be for the Purpose of enabling the Purekaser
to use the said method or proesss in their owm plamts
omly, thoroughout the Empire of Japan or Manohukuo, and
that the Purohaser shall not be entitled to use the said presees
and or apparatus in any other part of the world mot to soll or
grant the said information, engineering data and or experiemee es
the apparatus or proeess to any other person, company er govesm»
ment bither in Japan or Manohukuo or elsewhere in the world.
The Vendor doth hereby agree to give, grant and make
available to the Purchaser the aforesaid information, engimeering
and product on obtained, together with such plans, spesifieatioms
and drewings as the Vendor now has, as well as suoh full imfomats
comeerming its operating experience as is necessary to emable the
Purshaser to make full use of the said apparatus or prosees,
without amy cost to the Purchaser other than that set forth
hereafter; and further, should the Purohaser desire any additiemal
assistanee in designing or engineering or further imformatiem
( each or any of which requires additional work to be performed
by the Vendor ) sueh assistance will be given by the Vendor and
the Purehaser will pay the actual cost thereof.
6.
It is understood and agreed that should the Vender,
durimg the termof fifteen (15) yeare from the date hereef,
said improvemente to the purehaser and allow it to use same.
under the terms of this agreement free of charge, whether patentes
or not; and should the Purohaser during the term of fiftees
(15) years from the date hereof discover or make use of any
improveseats to the said process and or apparatus, susk im-
provempmss will be diselosed to the Vendor and the Vemder
shall have the right to obtain patents on suah improvememts
ether soumtry, and the Purohasss sill give all neoessary
assistamse to the Vendor to this end by assigming er trame-
ferring to the Vendor and by binding so far as practieable
its esployess to assign or transfer to the Vendor, amy im-
veatiome made, discovered or applied fer by itself or such
employees covering such improvements modifications or addi-
tiomss PRovIDeD, however, that the Purehaser shall have a
free lieemse under all sueh applicatioms for patent or
patemts as if such applioations or natents were not inoluded
in this agreement.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.96)
any ether the rigats, privileges and bened
rigate, engineering data and informmtion abeve mentiemss
as it sses fit.
from the Purchaser all engineering, soiemtific and es
operating data regarding the operation of the said prosess
and apparatus.
tinueing the use of the aforesaid process and or apparatus
(1s) months from the date hereof, whiebever is the sherter
period, then the Purohaser covenants and agrees with the
Vendor to pay the Vender as royalties and fees for the said
information, engineering data and experiense furmisked to it
or to be furnished to it by the Vendor and for the wee ame
right to use the aforesaid process and or apparatus withis
Japan and Manohukuo inoluding a license to use amy patemte
improvements thereon, at a rate in each and every imstamee
computed on the entire dry tonnage of sulphide material barmed
or treated by the Purchaser by said process and or appartus
as follows; and defining a ton for the purpose of this agreememt
as tmo thousand ( 2,000 ) pounds avo1rdupois:
Ten (lod) cents per ton for the first fifteen hundred
(1,500) tons per month;
Nine (9é) cents per ton for the next fifteen hundred
(1,500) tons per month;
Eight(8é) cents ver ton for any and all additional
tonnage ner month.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
The monthly tommage to be the average per poath ef the
nontks, Provinme, however, that in the event ef the parees
using the process and or apparatus under this agresmess
or iren subphide material for the resevery of the smem
and sulphur there from and not for the recovery commeretally of
per ton on all tommage so roasted, burned and or treated.
10.
The Purohaser hereby agrees to pay the Vendor
the fess or royalties aforessid quarter yearly, in funds of
the Dominoon of Canads on the last day of the month naxt
succeeding the last day of said quarter year, at such plame
as may be disignated by the Vendor, for all said mineral
sulphides burned roasted or treated as sforesaid by the Purebaser
during the priesding three (3) calendar months and within ome
month (30 daye ) after making eech payment the Purehaser shall
furntah to the Vendor a report stating the amount of such
material burned, roasted or treated during the peried covered
by suth payment; and if required by the Vendor, shall verify
the maiè report by affidavit.
11.
The Purohesar shall keep at lts works or plant
where the said procesa or apperatus is being usedy or at the
offiee where its aecounts are kent, proper books and asceumte
showime the full and comolete partioulars of all the ores,
semeemtrates, talllings and or other sulphide materials se
reasted, hmsmed or treated, in sufficient detail to emable
the royalty payable hereunder to be determined, and shall
permit sush books and records to bs examined by a eertified
publie ascovmtant designated by the Vendor, during busimess
hours, to the extent necessary to verify the record hereim previdal
for, sush examination to be ande et the exnense of the Vender.
12.
Opon the failure of the Furchaser to deliver
to the Vendor any statement or report or to pay the royalty
herein provided at the time when the same should, by the
provisioms hereof, have been delivered or paid, or if the
Purehaser shall make default in any other obligation on it
herein eomtaimed, and if within thirty (30) daya after 1t
shall bave been served with a notise in writing by the
Veader to make good suoh mon-payment or default; the Purahmser
neglests or feils to do ss, the Vendor may, at its option,
cameel this agreement by sixty (60) days' written notice to the
Puroheser at ite last known address, and this agreement shall
thereafter be null and vaid, but suoh canoellation shall
not operate to relieve the Purchaser from its obligation to
pay any royalty due prior to the date of such canoellatbon.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.96)
imstallation of the precesè and appartus, free of charge.
24.
te the valsdity or seope of any latters peteat that may
within the seepe of this agreement, ner the mevelty er
utility of the invention specified therein.
Ualess and until the Purchaser shall have asquired
any mashinery or appartus the subjeet matter hereef wéthout
the written censent of the Vendor, sush gomsemt mot to be with
held in the case of a bonafide sale of the Purehaser's undertakings
or a substamtial part shereef, to a responsible pereem
or company who will undertake to enter iato a lieense when
Galled upon so to do by the Vendor in the same terme as mear
as-may be, as are herein contained, and the Vemdor agrees te
exeoute if called upon such a license to suoh bona flde
16.
The Vendor hereby agrees that it will not
hereafter grant to any other party any license to use the sasd
prosess and or appartus upon any more favorable terms than these
herein set forth, without forthwith modifying this agreemems to
imolude equally favorable terms and conditions.
17.
Amy notice hereunder may be given by ekgher
party to the other of them by sending it thoreugh the post
in a prepaid registered letter addressed to them at the address
disignated by the other party and last known to the party
sending said notice, snd suoh notice shall be deemed to have
been served in due course of post, and in proving the service thees
1t shall be suffieient to show that the letter contaimimg the same
was properly addressed and registered.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.90)
hewever, thgt the Purehasar 
motaty the Vonder of the fast that any was
te elest as to mhether or mot suck other sompamy shail
er threugh the granting of a new lieense by the
such company, which said new license agreememt whell
imelude equally favorable terms and conditions as the
lieense mew held by the Purchaser.
Subjest to the above olauses, the agresmeme
29.
hereia graated shall be binding upon and shall emare te
bemefis of the parties hereto and thetr susedsders and
IN WITWESS WHEREOr the parties hereto have hereumte ses
in that behalf.
MITSUI KOZAN KAISMA LINE
Attooss-

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.92)
Report on International Centmaot fer the
Ratent Right Owmed by a Foreign
Corporaten.
Mitsui Mining Co.. Limited.
1. Contents of the Complete Doeument of the Intermational
contraot in of Lecomber 7th. 1941.
as given on separatc aheets.
2. alteration of the rtieles of the aid Contraet
Thereafter if bere is ny.
None.
3. keyaltics ans Fees raid by the mitsui Mining Company,
Liwited sinem Docember 6th. l941 and ths tame not yet paid.
(a) Faid for the term bctween cptewbar lst. 1940 and
November 30th. 1941.
Three thousané twe jundrcd and sixty-five
dollars nmd ałghty-three cente (s.265.as)
Paid for the term between ecember 1st, 1941
and September 16th. 1942.
Une thouaand acvan hundred and ninesy three
dollars und eighty fi ve cente ($1.793.86)
The paywent after -eptember 1940 was not ade
owing t the prehibition of purehasing forsigm emhange
by the Law for Centrol of roreign Sxchange. Sinee Mareh
l942, the Tokohama pecis Sank mae appointed the onmtedian
for enemy prepertiez (by the nomy Properties Cmetañy Lam).
the royaltiom and fecs for the tare, between Boptember lst,
1940 and  cptember 15th. 1942. wkre paid by the mitmsi
Mining Company. Limited diring tha course of the year
1942

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.93)
(b) Mot paid for the tere after September 1
an aocount of the taat that the maid es
for rutent No. l27985 was dissolved om
Bentioned day by the war-time Industrial Erepe
Lam in force as follous:
For the year 1942 (eptember 15th and th
Seven hundred and nine dollars and
forty omts (8709.40)
For the year 1943
Two thousund four hunarcd and twnty-eight
dol1 m nd nincty-tao cents (02.428.92)
For the bear 1944
two thonsnd tao hmured and sight dollars
and  1xty-fivo centn ( 2.208.65)
For the wear 1945
One thouoand ono handred and gighty-six
dollars ud p1xty-four cente(91.186.64)
For the your 1946
four hundreo and twenty-two dollars and
fifty-s1ght ccntn 1 422.50)
Potal .... ix thous nd nine hundred and fifty
cix dollars and nineteen cents
106.266.19
For the torn pril lot. 1946 and therafter
Under invectiaation at present
(The duty of puyment y thc itsui Mining Company.
Limited for the caid contract oxpires on September
18th.1950)
4. Method of ruyment for the bove-l entioned vontract.
The Litsui mining Company. Limited duly paid the said
amounts of royalties and fees s loneribed in Item (3) of
the present dooument to the Yokohama pooie Bank who is the
oustodian of encmy properties.
-The nd 

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.76)
OREENNT
bーtween
 HDN  PAN
LIMITHE
and
123

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.90)
.25/
AGREENENT DetWOn JANE HONDEN & CANY LINITED DaVA 
Reglstered Office at ane mmdred and ninety five Sootlend Streat,
Glasgow C.5. (hereinafter called "the Licensor")  the firest nant
MITUI & CPANY LiMITED having their Read Ofrice at Niohome-Monoho
Mikonbashi-ku, Totyo, vapan, and having a place of businese at Royal
Ne1l House, fourteen/nineteen Leadenhall 3treet, London, E.0.3.
hereinarter celled "the 1 ioeneees") r the second part.
WHEREAs the Iicensore omn the rignte for the Howden Sohmsen
Improved Sooton Botler with Air Jocket and the Air Jmoketted
Bootoh Boiler (as per schedule A annexed hereto) in rempeot of whieh
Util1ty Model Regietration has been applled for in Jepan and Wyensas
the Lieensors aleo own the rights of the Howden Turbulent Mow Air
Heater (as per Sohedule B pnnexed hereto) for whioh Letters Patent
have been grented (all hereinafter referred to as "the seid patente"
whioh term shall inol1de the Itil1ty Notel Regtetration) AND WHeRrAs
the Licensors have agreed to grant to the Licenseee a lioenoe to
manufacture and construot such bollers and air heatera on certein
terms and conditions whior 1t ie right and proper should be reduoed
to writing Ta Rer R: the parties have ngreed end do hereby agree as
?
followe, videlioet,-
ZIBT In conaideration of the fres and royeltlee to be peid by the
Lioensers to the Lioensore es hereinafter speoified end of
the other obllgntions end covenants hereby undertaken by
the Licensees, the I.icensore hereby grant to the Licenaees
11berty, lloene» and authority et thetr Torks in Japen to
make conatruet and sell in gccordenoe w 1th the snid Fatents
and/or des1gns, Boilers and Air Heaters for steomehipe the
hulls of whieh are conetrueted in the seid works in Japan
or for vessels the hulls or which have been previoualy

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.94)
一2
constructed in any cauntry and whion are being re-engimed or
re-hoilered at the said works together with the bemerit of
any extenslons and prolongatiomn of the terms and privileges
granted by the sald Patents whether present or future and of
any 1mprovements whioh may be made on the said Patente mm
desoribed in clause SEvinth hereof. The Lioence hereby grant-
ed to the Lioensees 1s expressly declared to be e mn-exelusive
Lioenee and the Licenaors shall be entitled to grant such
other Lioences in respect of the sald Fatenta and designs as
they may deelde from time to time, but the conelderatlone
for which such other I 1oences may b granted in Japen shall
not be more favourable to the other Japanese Lioeneees than
those stipulated in this Agreement. Motwithatanding the
Licence hereby g-anted the righte of the Lieensore themselves
to make conetruct end sell hoilers end air heatere in
accordance with the sain Faterte and/or designe shell not be
preJudiced or restrloted in any wny and the Licensors shall
be entitled to the bene it of any improvements which may be
medr es dencrlbed in olause SEV NTH bereof.
EXXUND
The Lloansees bind themselven to make payment to the Lioemsors
of:-
(1) a Lioence Fee of he Thouannd Founde sterling on the
elgning of thin Agreement if not praviously pain.
(2) A Royalty payment of one shilling per oquare foot of
heating surface on all goilere conatruoted under this
Agreement.
(3) A Technion) Asslstence payment of three pence per mquare
foot of heating surface on all Boilere cnstructed under
this Agreement.
(4) A Royalty payment end e Techmionl Assistance peyment in
reapect of all the Air Heaters construotd under this
Agreement. These Royalty and Technloal Asslatance pay-
mente shall be caloulnted on the henting surface of the
A1r Heatore in the followine mmnner. videlioet:-

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
For the firat One thousand quare feet of any Air Henter
five penee per quare foot.
For the naxt two bundred and fifty quare feet four pense
per quare foot.
For the next two hundred and fifty square feet three penge
per square foot, and
For the remeinder of the heating surface above one thousand
five hundred square feet two penoe per squere foot.
Or the total payment so caloulated seventy five per cent ehell
be reokoned na royalty and tuenty five per cent as teohnieal
aeeiatance paymrnt.
(5) The foregoing Royal ty end Technical Assistence payments
shall be due mnd payalle on the completion of mech and
every Bollder and/or ir Henter conetrueted under this
Agreement.
(6) All the paymente before apecified shell be mede in sterl-
ing and free of tay.
THIND
Any Boildre made or sun: lied under thia Licence for the Canadimn
pacifio stensships Liwitad cr the Canndimn Pecific Rallway
Company or any of ite subsldiary companies in exlstence at
the date of th»se presents (a subsidiary eompany being
hereby declared to be n company in which the Baid Railway
Company holds at lenst firty per cent of the voting rights)
shall be Pree from Payalty pnyhe]e under clause Jmo OND
paregraph (two) hereop but st: 1) ho subject to the fees
for Technical saaistancr mentionea in clause souND
peregraph (three) of thia lgreoment. Thia exemption shall
not.epply to Air Hentors.
FOURTH
The Lioensore shall surply gutarnce drawinge and Technical
pertieulers to enablo the I icenaees to construct the Boilere

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
have manufaotured under this Lieence tegether with 
Teshnloal partioulars and data regarding these es they heve
available.
The Licemsees shall keep at their Office in London a boek
into which shall be entered details of all Boilere and/er
Air Heaters contracted to be made of the types covared by this
Licence with the leading technical particulars and partieulars
of the Lteence Fees, Royalties and Technioal Assistamee fees
payable thereon, and shall make intimation of these partioulars
to the Lioensors immedintely the orier has been intimated to
them and the partioulars have been decided. The maid beek
shall be open at all reasonable times to the Licensors or
anyone appointed by them for inepection and the taking of
copies or extracts therefrom. The Licensees shall be bound
to give to the Lioensors or any one appointed by them such
informmtion and assistence as may be required in conneetion
with inspeotions of the said book. If desired by the
Licensors the Licensees shall be bound at the end, of each
year to deliver or send to the Licensors a statement certi-
fied as correct end venfied if required by the Licenseem'
Auditors showing the amounts payable to the Lioensors in
terms of this Agreememt.
B1XTH
Jo far as the regulations of the Japanese Government allow,
the Lioensees shall permit the Licensors or their Agents auly
authorised at reasonable times during the continuanse of tmis

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.93)
Lieenemms and/or the vessels where the 
Heaters covered by this Licence are belng
installed and to see, examine and watoh the opes
processes there cerried on and used in oonneetion wasm
manufecture and inatallation of the mald boilers and/
Air Reatere.
BEYXNTH
hereby granted to the benefit of all improvements in the 
petents and designs and the Licensors shell from time to
during the continuance of this Lioenoe communleate to the
Lieensees all such improvements. If during the contimmpe
this Licence the Lioensees shall diecover any improvemems
patentable or otherwien cono"rning the sald patents and
designs they shall immediately communicate sueh informataom
the Licensors who shell be entitled to make sush use of smsh
informatlon as they may think proper ineluding the taking ows
of patents in respect thereor.
EIGHTE
The Licensees shell not during th- continuance of shis Li-
cence-assist or (so far an they have power to prevent the
same) permit or suffer any person whether in their employ-
ment or not to epply for or obt in the grant of any Letsere
Patent or like previleges in reapeot of any of the improve-
ments or additions mentioned in olause GEVENTH hereor in
or for the United Fingdom Or any of 1ts Dominions Colomies
or Dependenoies or in any foreign country.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
this Lioence.
The Licensees shall not at any time during the contimemme
this Licence diapute the validity of the patants esvere
this lieence and they shall et the Licensore' expense mssdes
the Lieeneors in mainteining or defending the righte of the
Licensors by Legal proceedinge or otherwise in the mate Pate
or any patente in reapeot of improvements thereon and she
infringement of the sahd petente as soon as same shmll come
their notice or knowledge and they will in no oase direethy 
Indirectly be ooncerned in con testing or challenging the mate
righte of the lioensors nor will they do anything tending to
abrogate or invalidate such rights.
ELEVENT
Each installation of boilers and/or Air Heateré covered in
licence shall be fitted in some conap1cuous position with
metal plate upon which shall be case or engraved the mame of
the licensors together witn the numbers of the patents eomserm
ed if any and no installetion shall be sad or parted with with
out the said plate being fixed thereon and no such plate shall
be removed by or with the privity of the licensees without the
licensors' written comeent.
TWELFTH
The Licensors shall pay all fees and do all aots requisits se
maintain in foree the existing patants speciried im Sohedmlms

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.91)
pa1a.
 If the Licensees shall for the spece of three ealemdar 
make default in payment of any fees or royalties payabte 
them wder t he provieione of this Agrement or if they he
covenante and conditions hereinbefore odntaimed an her pere
or 1f they shall go into liquidation or shall comeund wa
their credisore or shall be wound up in Japen  under he
provisions of the Companies Aots for the time being tn furee
In Great Britain or other lawful authority the Liesnmers 
notice in writing to the Licensees may determine this Laeenee
and thereupon it shall determine accoraingly but witmout pee-
Judice to the liability of either party in reepeet of 
money then unpeld or of any covenant then broken or umperfer
Lnr Expept as hereinefter provided this Licenee shell eontimue im
foree for  parled of fifteen years from the lest date hereer
and nelther party ahall be bound to give to the other perty
notice of the terxination of the licence as at the expixy of
said period. In the even of the Licensems having beeome am-
titled during the subsistence of the licence to any iaprove-
ments made by the Licensore in terms of clause BEVENTH heremf
in respect of the Patents speoified in the Sohedulem ammemes
hereto this Lieence shall con tinus in force after tae expiry
of sald period of fifteen years unless elther party shall kave

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.91)
writing of their intention to terminate mis mg
any date subsequent to the date of expiry of sase 
when the Licmee shall cese and termimte  
terminabed this agreement shall continue in fal f 
the Liensees from delivering any boiler and/ar kir Mae
ordered before the expiration date but mat delivered mt
Sermination or the liceno-, subject to the fees and e
ties being pald to the licensors and all other terms 
this Agrasment beins obeervad.
It is expressly provided and declared that the hlimt
even should the application in Japan for a Beility Meaat
Registration in respect of the Howden Jommeen Impreve
Scotoh Boiler with Air Jaoket and/or the Air Jmekesed
Beotch Boller be unsuccessful as the obligatiens of the
Licensees are undertaken in respect of the teshmiemlskila
experience end designs which the Licensore shall supply
under this agreement but the licensors mball take all e
sonable steps to prooure that said applfeation shall he
grented.
Thie Agreement shall be construed scoerding to the Law et
Bootland.
and assignees of the main James Horden & Gampamy Limised

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.91)
these presents sensisting or
are tegether with the sald ßakedules
herete ezeouted in duplieate as falows
sealed with the corporate senl of kitevi à Gm
aforesald, London Branch, and subsoribed for them mmt 
Kaishe Limited (Nitaul & Company Limited In Marepe
thirty four at London on the eleventh day or Pekeear
hundred and thirty six before these witmewses Yoshihire
Ischiki and Yetsuzo Yamao both in the employment of Miemn
Compeny Limited afore sald and they are wonled with the
seal of James Howden & Company Limited aforesaid and
subsoribed for them and on their behelf by Crewford walsesm
Hume and James Howden Hume Junior two of thelr Direetore 
by Jemes Mack MeGillivray their secretary all at Masgw
the seventeenth day of the month and in the year last.
mentioned before these witnessen Nay Ogilvie sevem heetree
and forty five Dumbarton Foad, Glasgow, and Shella Lamoaley
Gordon nineteen Highburgh Posd, Olasgow.
(simed)
CRAWFORD # HUME Direeter
J. HOWDEN HÜME Jr. DireeSeP
May Ogilivie Witness
Jas. B. NcGILLIVRAY Seeretary
Shella Gordon witness
(EAL)
Fer PPO MITSVI & CO. LIMITED
YO&ABURO ITO
Y. IsshIkI witmess
Manager London B
F. Yameo witness
(SEAL)

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.89)
Data
385142
4th Warsh 1932.
Improvement
te stoes
tims.
30112
21st Apr11. 1932.
3team ganeretor
beilers).
434466
28th Mareh 1935.
stea
Water Wall
1997934
16th April 193%.
Steam Generstors.
RAGE
740
18th April 1935.
Stemm Gemeraters.
311956
9th January 1933. 5team Gemematers.
48051
10th November 1935.3tesn Gemerators (ml tie)
boilers).
511554
7th July 1933.
3team Genermtors.
82616
11th July 1933.
Steam Generaters.
HOLLAND
34139
16 th Oo tober 1934. Stemm Gemeratore.
MOBWAX
55140
30th September 1933. Steem Gemerators.
ARAN
Usility Model 1935.
Application No. 32553.
Registration.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.91)
295106
22nd June 1927.
316718
23rd May 1928.
327156
28th Decamber 1928.
ZRANCE
687845
8th Jamuary 1930.
sbrsuchsmuster
GEBNANY
1168955
4th Jenuary 1930.
H
23348
16th November 1930.
25173
16th August 1931.
ITALX
270953
2nd July 1928.
285570
10th January 1930.
SAPAN
69134
18th August 1930.
ao.
ASRWAY
5003
15th January 1930.
ao.
EDEN
74230
9th January 1930.
do.
..
1775103
9th Saptember 1930.
a.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.82)
THIEINDENTURE
of Deember Nnetecnknéredend tr be
ATIEBLAGT GEN of GOt, S, (
allLi
lld the Li")
 the Liee e the ere  
etters Fatent in Japan for sertain inventim relim
on beard ahips, vis:-
(1) Letters Patent No. 870s0.
(2) Letters Patent No. 1003.
(the said twe Lettere Patent bein all hr
ferred to as the said Letters Patent)  
Lieensers have agreed to grant to the Lisenseee amd te
Licensees have agreed to take a Lieense ms afsem
to mamafae tare and install on board ships in Japem and
to sell subjeot to the rentriotions aftd, 
eempressors and other appliances made uader ame in teres
32
of the said invention and Letters Patent m the terme
and comditions after specified: NOw MIs Impmtex
WITNESGETH s FOllOw:
2B2.
IN consideration of a eash payment of
z5000.-.-. Sterling to be made  the Lisemsees to the
7

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.89)
? (..) 
other paymente hereinafter stipulatd  
caligations of the Lieensees herein ,
Licensors hereby grant unto the Lieem 
cempressors, water praheatere, super
applianees of the types disclosed in the spesifiee-
tions of any of the said Letters Patent and  
mubsquent Letters Patent fallixe uder Cl
hereef and to sall and diapese of or use the me 
frem them on beard shipe in Japan upen the t
conditions contained in the said Letters Papems, 
well as these hereafter written:
But deelaring that the Lioensees shall mot be e-
titled to sell any appilances mamfactured der 
said Letters Fatent or any of them othemwime e
1nstalling them on board ships in Japan or for the
purpese of being installed on board ships in Japam.
SOD.
The Lioensore are at liberty to gremt st-
miler lieense for mammfeeturing, imstallimg and ssll.
ing turbo-compressors ete. in Japen, to ether fimms
er individuals in Japan, but they agree that in m
è case ne better terme sheld be given then es
cified in this agreement.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.87)
tee
am emslusive lieense er met.
EIRD.
The Lieense hereby onferrell
on the last date ef sigaing of these 
aay Letters Patent whioh may be take ut  sep
o? improvememnts as hereinafter referred to e any 
msh terme and during any further tere  
they or any of them may be prolonged. It is, .
agreed that the Lieensees shall have the  
of 10 years by giving six months' notiee ia tg. 
should the essential patents lapse or otherasse be
void at any carlier date this agreement shall temmtmmée
forthwith.
FOURTH
The License hereby conferred is persemal
to the Lisensees who shall not assign or morege th
same without the written consent of the Lieemsers fises
asked and obtaimed and does not confer  the Lieemsome
amy power or right to grant sub-Lieenses.
PISTH
The applianees made under the Lisense here-
b cenferred mest be construsted in a firet elams ae
workmamlike manner and the Lieensees shall mot imstml,

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.89)
ia the eyes ef the general puse.
Ixm
e Licenseße uadertake to pus the e
and diapeal of ppltaes ur 
when they have contrected for an installatiom for s
proving the steam engines on beard any shsp by the twme
tured under the said Letters Patent or any of .
supplying the Licensors with full pertieulare  te
type and power of such appliances. The Lism
take whenever requested by the Lieemsees to give e
Lismsees free of cost much techinical advime, ime
tion and assistance respeoting such appliamoes and
their installation as may be reasemakly mesessery fer
enabling the Licensees to quote for, memsfaeture and
instel the same to the best advantage. The Lieemsars
shall also at the request of the Lieemsees prepere ané
furmish to the Licenssss at the approzimate sstmal sest
thereer wueh designs, working drawings and prints esher
than the drawings of standard sises mentiened in alagte
Fifth, as the Licensees may required fer amy of these
purposes.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.87)
heLse hy 
ese Ineme Tar thereon be qual toate
per herse pover ealeulated on the seegoing I.N..
ship for which such installation is imbamded.
purpose of this agreement, seageing I.N.P. sl 
oulated on the following basis:
n2XWPXRXA
2
where B - Diazeter of high pressure sylimder n
w.P.- Boilder presaure in 1be per . 
R - Revolutions of propeller shaft per mim, m
sea of leaded ship;
8 - Stroke in imohes; and ? ls as fellowes
New
.200000 820000
Triple Engine Saturated Steam
Triple Engine Superheated Stemm
215000
2390
180000 200000
wadruple Engine Saturated 3team
Suedruple Engine Superheated Steam
195000 219000
Compound Engine
2700003000
Travelling expenses for engineers, eree-
ters, eto., who are travellim  Liemsees' e
will be charged by Licensers aesording te thstr a
shall be payable on the 30th Day of June and the 3

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.88)
perale to the Lienere ia re  1f
te
appoiat la Japen free of all dedtiom 
any royalty as aforesald net being made wh
days after the due date, the Lleensees hall 
the due date interest at the rate of aix por em
ammu on all monies due watil they are paid, am i
any payment shall romain umpaid for a peried or 
ealonder monthe frem the due date of peyent, th
Lieensers shall be en titled to eansel the Liesmse
enferred by sending to the Licensees at ther lems
tion of this Agreement, and on the thirtieth y 
the posting of sush letter the Lioense eenferred 
this Agreement shall cease and determine umlems
fore the thirtieth day after the date of peetin
notice the amount due shall be paid; mmeh cameellatiem
shall not, however, prejudies the right ef the Liemsees
to recover royalties and expenses dwe with laterest sh
on. Notwithstanding suoh terminatien the Lieensees h
be entitled to complete any installatien covered  sh
Agreement cantrsoted for hut not completed.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.84)
-7 -
The Licensors undertake from time te time
during the subelstenon of this Agreememt te eemmens-
onte to the Licensees detalln of all improvememts, pe-
tente' o otnem ixe, which the Lioansore my invent,
lsco er, pcutre or bec ore posaesaed of aprlioeble
to atr tur -oouy reasor and other prclianee mde 
ior nn  in terns of the said Lettere Fatent or any of
tham, and to nllo the Liceneore to use auch 1mprovm
montm to the "nire ertent mnd efrect ae if l.attere Fe-
tent coveriny the aame were speoifieally raferred to
in the preamble to thin Apreement and covered here.
and in the even of the Liceneans inventinx, aieeover
ing,  uirinhecoming poed in any y
any ucn lagrovement whother petentablo or not Auring
the suhalatono of th's greement, they hall be ,
ne they hereby bind therselves on eanh suoh ooeasion, 
communloate and explein such 1uprovement to the Lieemmer
forthwith and to alve avary tacility und mneistanse to
the I lcaneore to rak, out Lattere intant or other form
of protertion for such Lmprovemen: 1f the 1 joeneore think
fit to dn en, an thist 1n auch countries ae the Lioemeore
may docice nt tne : acenaore' exy enan and in Joint mmmeo
rn nucceagorg vithout further aoneent of and free of an
rmn hen or tho nomins and mmer
nufocturael ana or us aue 1moront
auteide of ueon (r) t krant 1ceneen to third perties
autela or Japer to rnnupenture, ell and/or  u

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.88)
-8-
improvement in sunh eountries and on suoh terms and
conditi ons ns the Lieeneers or their nominees er
suacessors may determine. In any country in shteh the
such improvement of the I.1ceneeen within thren momthe
after it hnn heen communicetnd to the Lioeneore as
"foresai, the I tceneees whall then he entitled to mae
such applicetim in their aule nemes or in the memee of
their nominers.
d
NINT
The licencees annll not durine the eontimmamee
of this ayrenment nor ot any time after the termimatiem
thereor dispute or object to to- valinity of tho ald
Letters Fatent or any of them, nor oppose amy moplteati
for extenslon of sair Lrtters i atont or any of bem, pr-
nor apome any ap,lication by the Lioensors for m
improvement patents or axtenaion thereor, nor ao any
met or thing ur Juaiclal or Petrimental to amid Lottere
Fatent or any of then. The Licanaeen shell mleo mee
their best endeavaurs to datect any infringement or
suspected infringement or the anid Iatters Patemt or
any of them end shall forthwith give th- Liesmeore
notior therno?. In th- event of any eunh infringement
during the continuance or thie Ag ement, the Liomeore
may mt thelr onm exr ene- but shall not be bownd te take
all such untionn or prooeeding es thev feem meseeeery
or exaatent c :rotact the sald Lettere Patent and
In the avent of the Liceneore intimating that they do
nut intend to take any such prooeedinge the Liomsess
shall be entitled so to do in their om namen am at

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.90)
agree to lond their name and afferd the Lid
0
asststamee as may be reasonably meeeemary fee 
sesution of such prooeedinga, eabjeet mly te s
Licensees first granting in favour of the Liesmeemes
in emch such case, a satisfectory intemmi agmimmé
any expenses, costs or damages whieh the Limm 
inour in conneotion with the procsedinge or for 
they may be found liable as the remlt he
covered by this Agreement are paid by the Laemeee.
The Licensors shall, however, have the right to er
any petents they my coneider unmecemeary for the 
teation of the invention, without prejudice to the
Licensees keeping up the patents in question  
of the fees.
TENTH
The liquidation of the Licensees whether
voluntary or in any other way except for the propome
of reconstruction or amalgamation, or the breash 
them of any of the stipulations of this Agreement hat.
at the option of the Licensore, intimated  mesime
manner foresaid, terminate this License; and in tme
event of its termination whether under this 
clause the Licensees shall still be limble fer she we
alties and expensen due up to the date of mae 
tion en all applianees sold or used up to ssk date 
for the reyalties and expenses on any fimiaked oplime
ces mamufactured hereunder in their posssemiem ms she
termination of this Lieense and theremfter snd or e

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.95)
-10 -
rest at the rate of six per centum per annum fr 
due date of payment till paid.
ELEVENTH
The Licensees shall during the ourrenoy
of this Agramment keer proper books of mooount at their
works or offices in which shall be entered full and
clear detalle regarding the number and type fof appllam-
oes and the noree power of each and the seagoing I.Nt.
and names of the ships ror which they are respeatively
Intended, whlch books of aoc ount shall be open for im-
wpection by the nominee of the Licensore duly mutherised
in writing at ell reesonable times and the Lioenseem
shall give seid nominees all such information as mmy
reesonably be requtred and shall allow him to take em-
tracts from said booke as he may require.
THELFTH
The 1.icensees shell during the ourreney
of this Agreement render to the Liceneors half yemrly
within thirty aays after ench of the dates speoified
in Articl- seventh hereof statements in writing showing
the numbers of enplianoes mnde, sold end delivered
and/or used by or for the Licengees under this Lieenee
and eccepted by the thipowner during the previone hatf
year, and the horae power of mach and the seagoing I.n.P
and name of the ship for whioh ench is intended and the
royalty payable thereon, and such ststement shall be fur-
niahed along with paymente of royelty then dae.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.94)
autherised in writing shall be masitled at
times during business hours to enter into the
the mamufaoture or sale or use of said appllame
ried on by the Licensees and shall be given ala
facilities in Order to encertain the state or 
such manufacture or sale or use and that all
of the Licenaees herein contained have beem  e
duly performed and observed. It is understoed e
Licensees camot be compelled to take any mtim 
against the Japanese Lew.
The Licensees shell fix on some i
FOURTELNTH
part of eaoh of the appliances manufaotured by the
under this Agreement a clear and legible netiriemem
which they are manufactured, and otherwise do mmy
necessary in thin respect to comply with the Leme
Japan end the Licensees shall not part with y f 
said appliancos or keen same in their possemsion whem
finished, without such notification being affimed
This lioense shall extend to and inelwde the
FIFTEENTH
assignees and succeasore of the Licensore mnd the pet
mitted assignmes of the Licensees.
The Licensore and the Licensees shall 
SIXTEENTH
bear their own legal expenses connected with and im-
dldental to the preparetion of these presents
Both parties hereby submit and refer mil
LA3TLY
dlaputes or differences which may arise betweem hm

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.92)
inelmding the assesemen't or aseerta
including damages, eempensatin, expenses
due by the one party to the other, to arbitrats
arbiter to be appointed by emch of the partiem wa
power to the said arbi ters to appoint an over
umpire to act in t he event of their differims m
and should the arbiters fail to agree as to th
ment of en eversmen, it shall be competent so 
the arbiters to apply to the ohairman of Lleyats 
ster of Shipping, London, to nomimate am
the overaman so nominated shell have the same pe
1f he had been agreed upon by the twe arbiterss 
WITNESS WHAREOF the Lioensors and the Liemmsees
ceused their respeetive common sesls to be herese
affixed the day and year firat above written.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
REPORT
1. Patent mabers: 73406, 74399, 96933,
100557, 106314.
2. Ommer of Patents:
Eunstdunger Patent Verwertungs Aktien Gesseleekers
Grarus City, Switserland.
3. Ezecuser:
Nippon Chisso Hiryo Kabushiki Haisha, Led.,
1 Sosé-cho, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan.
4. Date of Registrasion of Licenses:
10 Pebruary, 1933.
5. Contents of Contrast:
As is shown in the annex hereof.
6. There has been me change of the contents of the
original eontract simce 8 December, 1941.
7. There is no meet of payment for the use of the said
licenses, because we have never executed them sinse
8 December, 1941.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.95)
,he  ld 
hereinarter semetimes called "K. P. V."
WITNESSETH
1. This agreement is in addition to a certain agreemest
between the same parties dated the 22nd day of Nevember, 19ss,
whish agreememt of November 22, 1928 is hereby ratified and
confirmed, emsept insefar as it is changed, modified or altered
by the termes of this contract.
2. I. P. v. hereby mssigns to Nippon Chisso full might,
title and interest in and to Japanese patent applicatien Me.
7709 filed August 12, 1927 covering an invention set ferth in
French Patent No.621, 216, and a Japanese Patent applisatien to
be filed, if such filing is still legally permissible, eevering
an invention set forth in French Patent No.631, 421, tegether
with any and all patent or patents issued or to be issued en
either or both of said applications or any divisions or centimme-
tions thereof, said applications being set forth as 1 amd 2 in
Schedule No.l hereto annexed. It is understood and agreed that
Nippon Chisso is authorized and empowered to file the Jagamese
application c∞rresponding to French Patent No. 631, 421, if it
should elect to do so, and I.P.V. will execute any documents
and take any other steps necessary to the filing of said
applioation.
3. K.P.V. hereby grants to Nippon Chisso an exelmaive

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.97)
eevering additions and improvements to the presess cevesred 
phosphate and ammonium suphate. This license hereky sreated
granted under the patent applications specified as 3, 34 am 4 in
Sebedule No.l hereto annexed.
4. K.P.V. hereby grants to Nippon Chisso under the said
Japanese patent applications specified as 3, 3A and 4 in said
Schedule No.l and the patents to be granted thereon, a mem-
exclusive license to sell Ammophos, manufactured by Mippem Chisse,
in Japan and her present territories, under the pasemt appliee-
tions referred to herein and patents to be granted thereem. It
is understood that this non-exclusive sales license dees met
prevent the importation into Japan and her present territeries
of Ammophos manufactured by others outside of Japen and her
present territories, and X.P.V. hereby represents that it has
done and will do nothing to prevent the exportation of Ammephes
manufactured by Nippon Chisso in Japan and her present tesritesries
under the patent applications hereby conveyed and the lieenses
hereby granted. to countries other than Belgium.
5. In part consideration for the assignment set ferth
above, Mippon Chisso hereby grants to K.P.v. an enclusive

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.94)
2
Ammephes as defined herein. Nippon Chisse alme grants to Esr.w
under the patent applications assigned to Nippen Chisse umder
this greemnt, ay divisions or contiaations theres 
patemt er patents granted thereon a non-exolusive lisemse fer she
sale ef Ammephes in Japan and her present territories. It is
understeed that the intent of this agreement is to assure to
I.P.V., its licensees and assignees the right to impert inte and
sell Ammophes in Japan and her present territeries witheut in-
terferemce by Nippon Chisso under the rights conveyed herein.
6. It is the intention of the parties hereto that the
exclusive mmnufacturing license and the non-emelusive sales
license hereby granted by E.P.V. to Nippon Chisso shall pply
to any patent rights acquired in the future by I.P.V. in Japem
and her present territories relating to the manufasture and
sale of Ammophos, it being understood, however, that said
license rights shall be limited to the manufacture and ale of
Ammophos only.
7. I.P.v. hereby agrees that within the time pemitted
by law and, at any rate, before April 3, 1929, and Jume 3, 1929,
respeetively, K.P.v. will apply for Japanese patents covering.the
inventions covered by the Swedish patents Nos.1572, April 3.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.95)
8. This agreement and the payments as spesiráed herain
are not cenditiemed upon the filing or granting of the Jagamese
pateat applications set forth in Schedule No.1 herete amme
or upan the validity of any pa tents granted or to be remted,
nor upon the production of any Ammophos by Nippon Chisse wmter
the said lieense.
9. In censideration of the foregoing ussignments and
license rights, and in consideration of this agreemems Nippem
Chisso agrees to pay to K.P.V. the sum of One Hundred Perty
Thousand Dollars ($140,000) in United States curreney whieh sum
will be in addition to any and all sums mentioned in the agree-
ment of November 22, 1928, payments to be made in the Gity of
New York to The Dorr Company through Mitsubiahi Shoji Kaisha,
Ltd.,as follows:

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
On the signing of this agreement,
$ 28,000.00
On or before December 31, 1929
28,000.00
On or before December 31, 1930
$ 28,000.00
On or before December 31, 1931,
$ 28,000.00
On or before December 31, 1932,
$ 28.000.00
Total
$140,000.00
In WITNESS WHEREOF the parti es hereto have caused
this inatrument to be signed by their duly authorized repre-
sentatives the day and year first hereinbefore written.
NIPPON CHISSO HIRYO
KABUSHIKI KAISHA, LTD.
by
its duly authorized representative.
KUNSTDUNGER-PATENT-
VERWERPUNGS-A.G.
by
and
two of its directors there-
unto duly authorized.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.96)
Sanedule No. 1
British
French
Japanese
Swediah Application
Patent
Patent
Application
1 - 2673 of aug. 13, 1926
275,843
621,216
7709/aug.12,1927
2 - 4292, Doc. 23, 1926
282,619
631,421
will be Applied
for if not too late
3 - 2506, July 12, 1927
290,518
643.968
Numb er unkeown, but
applied for before
July 12, 1928
3a - 1572,
Ap11 3, 1928
will be applied
for before April
3, 1929
4 -2523。
June 5. 1928
Will be applied
for before June
5,1929

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.93)
REPORT
1. Pam es: 70979, 70996, 81776, 81867,
86614, 87877, 97462, 99837.
2. Oumer of Pasenss:
S.I.R.I. Sesieta Italiama Riceree Iadustriall,
73 Apesteri, Piasa S.N., Rome, Italy.
3. Eeeeuter:
Nippen Chisso Hiryo Kabushiki Kaisha, Lod.,
1 Sese-eho, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan.
4. Date of Registration of Idcenses:
14 September, 1933.
5. Gomtemss ef Gomsrast:
As is shemm in the annex hereof.
6. There has been no change of the contemts of the
eriginal cemtract since 7 December, 1941.
7. There is no need of payment for the use of the
said lieemses, because we have never executed them
since 7 December, 1941.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.91)
the following:
ALmONIA GASALE S.A. (hereinafter refesred to e LesA) & stenk
compeny censtituted unéer the laws of switserland, wit min
offiee ia Lagano, aeting in its quality ef Ezalusive Agent ef s
Sectete Italiame Ricerehe Industriali (hereimafter refesved to 
SIRI) a steek cempeny cestituted under the laws ef the Kängtem ef
Italy, with Main Office in Terme, on one side, and
NIPPON CHISSO HIRYO X.X. (hereinafter referred to as MISSO)
a stoek eompany eomstituted under the laws of Japan, with Main
1n Osaka.
It has beem agreed aad stipulated as follows:
ART.I.
ACSA deelares that SIRI is free and exelusive ewmer ef all
patents, ebtained and to be obtaized in Japan nd chine, in the
Rame of Dr. LUIGI CASALE and/or Dr. MARIA CASALE SACCKI, WiGem
and executrix or the late Dr. LUIGI CASALE aferesaid, amd/er in
the name ef SIRI direetly, which refer to produetiom of symtmetie
methamol and gas mixtures for produetion of syathetie mthamel.
The aforesaid petents obtained and under examimatien in Japanese
the following:
1 = N. 70979 = Process for eatalytie preparation of aleshels and
other exygenated organie compounds.
2 2 N. 70996 = Prosess and device fer ebtaiaing eireulatien es
cempressed gases in the elesed eyele of apperetuses in wmich asp
of earbon and hydrogen or gaseous hydroearboss.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.89)
--
I = I. aissp - Nothed tor peeperetien ef kptregse
menszide and kyáregen starting frem hyérecartens.
5 e N. asel4 - Apperatus fer carsgins eut resstéess mmich tabe
plase between flaids at high temperature.
6- . svav = Syathetie apperatus fer eatalytie resstiems 
pressure.
7 - N. l401/ze - Patent applieation for methed ef predmetiem es
gas having high content ef earbon menozide by means ef gasifieation
ef selid fuels.
6 & N. lozst/29 - Patent application fer gas gemerater fer
preduetien of gaseous mixtures ef carbon memoxide and hydregem by
centimuous sasifisation of solid fuels.
ART. II.
ACSA in her capaeity of Exelusive Agent ef SIRI grants to Gmrssé
and chIsso ascepts an exelusive lieense ef use ef the sIRI preees.
ses, epperatuses and patents, in so far as referring to predustiom
of syathetie mthanol and gas mixtures for production of syathètse
methamel, for Japan and Chine as well as for the use of all pateate
in course of being obtained, and of all improvements patentable
or met, in so far as referring to the same objest and fer the same
countries, which SIRI may obtain in future, ACsA ebligating itself
to give immediate and detailed communication thereef te chrsso and
upen request ef hisso to apply for the relative patents within the
time required to proteet the inventions.
CHIsso having informed A0SA that in order to avoid eharges ef
transpertatiem and customs in conneetiem with plant equipment,

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.94)
plans and epeeirications cenceraing a sr plant havtas eepeett
ef é tens ef methasel per day, to enable ahisso to have the e
aratases relatins to said plant construeted and to previde fer
its erestion.
In cenneetien with this arrangement chisso ebligates stself
to mmintain secreey abéut said drawings plans and specifisatiems
and further te exect same secreey from its mamufesturers, ebtais.
ing from them the obligation met to build fer third parties app-
aratuses or equipment contained in said drawings, plams and apesã
fieations, nor to avail themselres on behalr of third partiee of
the teehaieal date whieh Chisso will place at their dispesal.
ART. III.
At the same time ACSA grants to CHISSO and CHISSO aseepts the
exelusive right to produee synthetic methanol obtained by tme
SIRI precesses and apparatuses solely in the States ef Japem and
China.
ART.IV.
The rights of this license are computed on fixed premiums and
royalties as hereimarter; payements to be made during the emtare
duration of the centract in Italian Lire for the fixed premiums
and in Yen fer the reyalties.
FIXED PREMIUMS
The tetal amount ef premiums to be paid by chIsso te sIRI sa

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.91)
shell be due as hereisafter for the ealargomente of plante.
a) fer the sm ef Lire s.so.ose abeve mtened se will 
1st. Lire s96.000 during the meath ef May 10se.
2nd. Lire 595.00c on November lat, 1988
Sd. Lire 780.000 on liay 1st. 1935
4th. Lire 950.000 on Rovember lst. 19ss
5th. Lire 950.000 on May 1st. 1954
6th. Lire v80.000 en November 1st. 1934.
Fer the payments listed hereinabove at I, s, 4, 5 md 6 amisse
will deliver to sIni cerrespending drafts, assepted by Misse er
premissery metes drawa by ChIsso in Italian Lire, fer the respeetive
ameunts mentiened at . 3. 4. 5 6, plus 1aterest at s per am
maturing en each swm from the date of this contract watil due
date of each draft or mete.
b) fer the right to inerease the first plant frem ssse tess to
5000 tems ammmally of (FizOM, CHIS s80 wil1 pay BIRI the sum of
Lire 656.850m
s) fer the right to imerease the above plant from soce tems to
7800 tems aanually ef Chgon, chIss0 will pay SIRI the sm ef Lire
395,000.
d) for the right to increase the sbove plant frem 9see tens to
10,000 tons anmually ef CyCM, CHISS0 wil1 pay 3IRI the sum ef
Lire 187.500.* For amy inerease in exeess of 10,000 tems ammmally
no fixed premium shall be paid.
ROYALTIES.
Immediately in completien er the first plant with a yearly

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.90)
to srax the three fellewing reyalties en preduetion:
2) mes the first plant with e yearly eapesity of a, see to
ef g is la eperatien, CHIsso will pey sInI 1.s Sem (vás 
ceatime and e quarter of Yen) en every kilogren ef  pede
Lesever it is distinetly agreed upon that, after a peried ef s
moaths frem the time when the first plant is eetually/in eperetins
CHIsso guarantees SIRI the payment of a minimm royalty es 1.8s Sem
(eme emtime nd a quarter of Ten) on every kilogram of  on th
yearly predustion of 1,500 toas of CHg0H.
2) or preductien excooding 2,500 tons and up to 10,000 toms
ammmally ef Mgo, CHISEO will pay SIRI O.75 Sen (vis three
quartere of eme sentime of Yen) on every kilogram of gon predveed»
s) For produetiom exeeeding 10,000 tons annually ef Mgom ,
CHIsso will pay sIRI 0.50 Sen (viz half a centime ef Yem) en svery
kilegram öf CHgoß. predueed.
he reyeitiés shall be paid every six months at expiretien.
ChIsso ebligates 1tself to notiry ACSA the date on wmieh each
plant shall have started operating.
All peyments of fixed premiums and of royalties to be mede to 
SIRI through ACSA in its capacity of Exclusive Agent of SIRI,
and with a bank asceptable to ACSA.
ART. V.
ACEd guarantees the following operating data fer the SIRI plamt:
Unit eapecity of preduction in crude sethanoi, referred so
operatiem during 24 hours, 8 tons.
Spesifie comsumption referred to kilogram of crude methamsl
produced, whem aetual production of the unit correspeads to a toms

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.92)
(speslrie weight about 0.4s Ig/m5)
.84
2) ef electrie emeray, starting with mixture at atmespherss
pressure
K 2. 3
5) of water fer ceoling, at initial temperature of 109c  0.
(er in quaatities gradually larger if initial temperature is
aredually higher).
In respeet of caleulation of ceasumptien of gas mizture (0 s)
if the mixtare subtrasted frem the cireuit fer reesem of purgings
Ls met again utilised by sending it back to the suetien es the
cempressers, ite volume mmst be subtracted frem the velume ef
mixture eensumed.
Upen the abeve data ef guarantees a telleranee ef s shall be
allowed.
ART. VI.
For starting up the first plant and if so requested by miaso,
AcsA mmst send to Japan at the expenses of CHIsso, the teshmieal
personnel mecessary for starting operation, and so on, in the
event that diffieulties should develop in operation of the plants.
ART. VII.
If se requested by CHISS0, AC3A w1ll undertake to obtain frem
the Seciete TERNI the authorisation for a technieal representative
of chIsso to sojourn at the Nere Montoro plant, that he may learm
the systems of working of the SInI precesses and apparatuses fer
produstion ef syathetic methamel and of the gas mixture reguired
for said produetion.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.92)
ANT.VIII.
tie methanel caned by chIsso and sInI shell have the rigkt to
apply, wi theut eest, to its oum ayatem, all transfermatsems er
additiens useful to the pressss, which anisso may put inte wees
ART. IX.
L0sa ebligates itselr in the name of sIns to de everything in
ite pever so that patents ebtained and whieh may be ebtained in
Japan and China, relating to the SIRI proccess and apparatus fes
preduetiem ef syathetie methamel, shall be maiatained valid fer
the maximm peried of time, asserding to the lams of the twe
eountries.
chIsso obligates itself for the duration ef the eestrest, te
give all its assistance towards obtainning and mmintainins valld
the patents ia Japan and Chima, to communicate to Acaa anything
mhich may be eentrary to the patents, and mot to undertake
amything whatscever against maid patents.
In the eveat ef a protest being made against chisso by third
parties, for infringement of patents in conmeetion with the
operation of the SIRI Process and apparatuses in Japem and Chima,
ACSA obligates itselr in the name ef SIRI to defemd any such
astien under responsibility of SIRI and CHISSo obligates itselr
to assist AcsA with all the meams at its dispesal in the defemse
of sueh an mction. The costs of any action shall be berm by
CHIBso and Acs, for account ef sIRI, share and share alike.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.90)
1.
. • ● .
ART. x.
Dhe present eeatrest hall bo velsd se lang ae ell be e
ene ef the patente ebtained er to be ebtained by sznx as ees
the besefit ef mew patents whieh sini may have takem in ester to
protect mew and differen: precesses for productien of syathetie
mtheael or gas miztures fer preduetion of syathetie methamel,
each ef the eeztrestins parties, at the expiratien ef the esatrest
as fereseen in the first peried of this ARt. X., shall have the
right to request its proregation for the entire duratiem ef te
mew patents, and in this ease caisso will centimue to pay to szax
the premiums and royalties establisked in ARt. IV ef this cemtrest.
ART. XI.
All dirferenees er disputes whieh may arise frem the iatergret.
ation, exeeution or solution of the present agreememt, shall be
submitted te the judgement of three friendly arbiters, whe will
decide without form of procedure and without appeal. Each ef the
contracting parties will nominate one arbiter and the third shall
be neminated by mutual agreement by the other arbiters; and in
case ef disagreement by the Consul General of Great Britain in
Italy,, and in case the latter should be unwilling or umable to
accept, by the President of the Court of Appeal of the City where
A0sA has its Main Office.
Each of the eamtrasting parties shall be required to desigeate
1ts arbiter within the period of sixty days from date on whieh it
shall have received invitatien to do so from the other party by
registered letter.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.93)
- ● -
It for y res mteeever the invited pary 
arbiter shall be nemizated by the Ceasul Gemerel ef Greet mrtt
of Appeals of the City where ACsA has its Main Offise, upem
request ef the party which shall have duly meminated ite arbiter.
In ease the arbiter of one or the other party should fail to
attend the arbitration session on the day established by mtual
agreement, his memination shall be regarded as met hevins ecemssse
and amother arbiter will be nominated to take his plase by the
Consul General ef Great Britain in Italy, and sheuld be met aeeept,
by the President of the Court of Appeal of the City where Aasa
has its Main Offiee.
The eosts ef arbitration shall be born by the lesing party.
The deeision ef this board of arbitration, whieh will sit is the
City where ACsA has its Main Office, shall have the foree of
final judgement without appeal, and the contracting parties obli-
gate themselves to submit to its execution.
ART. XII.
The present contract obligates each of the contrectings parties
for itself and obligates also the heirs and successors of eaeh of
them under any title.
Done in double original.
Lugano, Maroh 17th, 1932. 
Osaka, May 24th, 1932. 
P.P. AMMONIA CASALE S.A.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.94)
GRAMOPHONE & RECORD AGREEMENT
be tween
ELECTRIC & MUSICAL INDUSTRIES, LTD..
COLIMBIA GRAPHOPHONE CO.,LTD..
and
NIPPNON OANY, D.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
THIs sakxmkNT made this 15th day of Sept.,l9
WOEM BLECTHIC & MUSICAL INVUSTRIKS, IFD., WROSE FPOGÉSSER
mI, (hereinafter called "Columbia") on the one hand, and Mipremoracs
CoupAnY, LTD., whose registered office is at 125 Kwnesaki, Kemasmkl.
Japan, (hereinafter called "Nipponophone") on the other hand.
1. Columbia and Mipponophone mutually agree that in so
far as the provisions of the agreement between them dated Februesy
l0th, l92e, Lave not already been fully performed and earried fnto
effest, everything therein cntained is hereby camselled as frem
the date hereof and neither party shall have or make any slaim in
respect of ang provision of said agreement, it being the intentiom
of Columbia and Mipponophone that the provisioms and terms of this
agreement shall superade any and all provisions of seid agreement
of February loth, l928, which may not have been fully performed as
of the date hereof, provided, however, that Columbia and Neppene-
phone shall continue to be liable to each other and shall disckarge
and pay to esch other according to the terms thereef, any imdebteé-
ness ader said agreement of February loth, 1928, or fromdher
sowrees that either may owe to the other as of the date hereef.
2. The following terms and phrases employed in this
agreement are defined as follows:
"RECORD" means a sound record not intended to be used
in the preparation of further sound records but for the re-
predustiom of sounds by talking machines.
"MATRICES" mean the metal impression derived from the
waxlike composition on which the original sound eagravings are made.
"ARTISTS' FOYALrY" means the royalty payable to an artist
upon the mle of records of his rendition or performance.
"COPYHIGHTROYALTY" means the royalty payable to a copy-
right ewner on the sale of records reproducing his works.
3. Columbia and EXI agree not to sell any gramophones,
sound records, accessories and parts thereof under Columbia er
Regal trademarks direct to customers in the Empire of Japam,
Mwantwms Leased Territory and Manchukuo, all as at present com-
stituted, and they respectively agree to restrain any coapany in
which they may own a majority of shares from selling any wmsh mer-
chandise or produst under said trademarks direct to custemers in
the Empire of Japan, Kwantung Leased Territory and Manchukao, all
as at present constituted. Wipponophone agrees to sell gramophones,
sound records, accessories and parts thereof in the Empire of Japas.
Kwantung Leased Territory and Manchukuo only, all as at presemt
constituted, and not elseghere.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
of an agreament dated January 5, l932, between Golumbim mad th
Columbia Phonograph Co.,Ind., of the United States of Ameries.
Columbia agrees to do its best so long as said agremment is in
force to secure the full benefit thereof for Wippomepheme.
4. Colunbia and I agree to give Nipponophone an 
clusive, non-assignable, lisemse to use all patents relating to
gramophones, sound recoras, accessories and parts thereof regis-
tered by either of them in Japan as of or prior to the date here-
of, provided, however, that this obligation shall be obligatery
only in respeot to sucn patents as C lumbia and/or mI are peraitted
to grant a license to Nipponophone.
Columbia and/or  furtuer agree to furnish Mipponophome
with a copy of the specification of any future patent applioatioms
relating to granophones, sound records, accessories and parts there
of which either of them way file in England with a statepeat of the
filing date as soon as possible after te filing of the eomplete
specifiotion for said patent, proviued, however, that this oblig-
tion shall be obligatory only in respeot to suoh application for
patents for whioh Coluabia and/or I are parmitted to grant a
lioense to Mipponophone. Upon receipt of notice from Nipponophone
of its desire that an applioation for a patent for sush invention
be filed in Japan, Columbia and/or ElI agrec to file an applieation
for such patent in the Japanese Eupire at the expense of Mipponophone
and upon the grant of a patent under any suoh application Columbia
and/or EI agree to grant Mipponophone an exolusive, non-assigmable,
license to use sugh patent in the Japsnese Empire.
Hipponophone agrees to furniah Columbia and DI with a
copy of the specification of any patent application relating to
gramophones, sound records, accessories and parts thereof, which
it may file in the Empiro of Japan with a statement of the filing
date as soon as possible after the filing of the complete spesi-
fieation for said patent. Upon receipt of notice from Columbia
or mI of its desire that an applicetion for such invention be
filed in England, Nipponophone agrees to file an application for
such patent in England at the expense of the party making sush re-
quest and upon the grant of a patent under any such applicatiom,
Mipponophone agrees to grant an exolusive, non-assignable, lieease
to the party making such roquest and to the associated companies
of sugh party to use said patent in the British Bupire.
5. Columbia and Nipponophone shall sach supply to the
other on dewand matricos of any solections which have been or shall
be recorded by them for their wn catalogues, or matrices of ssh
records which have been made available to them by their subsidiaries,
and which are available for use in the territory br whieh they give
to the other licenses as aforesaid, at the cost thereof plus ten (10)
percent, provided always, that the obligation to supply matrices
shall not apply to matrioes received by either Company from other
parties, and shall not apply to matrices of recordings made by
either company for other parties. So far as they shall have the
same available, they shall each supply to the other en demand at
cost plus (l0) pereent any gramophones, sound reserds, aceess-
ories and parts thereof which they may maxufasture or preduse as
well as with any resording equipment or any other mchines, de-

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
vices er equipment they may produse relating to the same.
The expression "cost" as hersin used shall be the fall
factory cost thereof to the producer inoluding a propertiem of
factory overhend, but no other overhead, plus export paeking and
all f.o.b. out-of-pocket expenses plus any royalties payable te
third parties. In áetermining the cost of sound records, recerd-
ing expenses may be added on an average basis as well as sush
royelties as are applicable to goods shipped into the coumtry to
whieh the goods are consigned under the order placed by the pur-
chasing eompany.
On all matrices ordered by Nipponophone it shall be re
quired to pay in addition a pressing fee as follows:
 all mtrices supplied to Nipponophone other than those
for which provision is otherwise made in this agreement.
Sipponophone shall pay to Colunbia a pressing fee of four
sen per double record on 75% of the records manufmctured
frem ssh matrices plus artist's and/or copyright royalties,
if any. Provided, however, that in cases of records retailed
under a cheaper brand than the Columbia brand, exsept recomds
from matrices of European olassical recordings, Mipponophome
shall pay a pressing fee per record calculated by maltiply-
ing 4 sen by the percentage which the list priee of said
cheaper brand record is of the list price of Columbia bramd
record of the lowest price classification. In eases where
the artist royalty on such cheaper brand record eawals or
exceeds the pressing fee falculated as hereinbefore just
provided, Mipponophono shall pay suoh artist ropalty per
reeord but no pressing fee thereon; but, if the artist
royelty on swh cheaper brand record is lens than the press
ing fee so ca lculated, Hipponophone shall pay the artist
rayalty and in addition shall pay as a pressing fee the
difference between the artist royalty and the pressing fee
calsulated as hereinbefore provided. Nipponophme shsll pay
Columbia any royalties Colwmbia is required to pay third
parties on rocords from matrices supplied to Hipponophone
by Columbia, which matrices Colunbia has obtained from
third parties with the right of supplying such matrices
to Nipponophone. Provided, however, that on matrices of
European classical recordings recorded on or after Movember
lat, l9ss, the recording cost of which has been paid by
Columbie, ipponophone shall pay a pressing fee of lo% of
the list price in Japan on 85 of records manufactured
from such matrices, suoh l0% to inelude any artist's ray-
alttes that may be payable, but not any copyright royalty
whioh shall be for accownt of Nipponophone.
Qa any Mipponophone matrices which may be supplied to
Colmbia, Columbia shall pay to Wipponophone a pressing fes of
four sen per double meed record on 75% of the records mmafastured
by Columbia from suoh matrices.
No pressing fees shall be payable by Mippeñopheme 
records pressed from xatrices supplied to Wippomophene by Colmabie
the recordings for which have been made at Wippomophone's reqwest

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.96)
and epeass, provided that Nipponophons shall pey all artiet
and sepyzight royalties, if any, on sush resords and, reserdim
Columbia and any essociated company of Coluabia shall have the
right to we the matrices of any recordings wade at Mippemophoms
request and expense and shall pay Mipponophone a pressing fee
thereon of lo% of the list price of the resord in the country im
whish the record is mmnufac tured from sush matrices, swsh lo% to
apply on 85% of the records manufactured. The 10% pressing fee
shall imclmde artist's royalties, but not copyright regalties.
It is mutually understood and agreed that any resording
listed by either Colunbia or Nipponophone in & elass higher than
the respestive ordinary price alass of Columbia or Nippomophone
shall be regarded as a classical recording.
Nipponophone will pay to Columbia a royalty of one
cent, United States Currenay, per record, free of all Japanese
taxes, on ss% of the records manufactured by Mipponophone from
trices of recordings made under ths so-called y" and "C"
aystems, or asy other royalty fr whion Columbia may become liable
for the we of recording systems.
No matrices supplied by any party hereunder shall be
sold or otherwise disposed of by the purohasing party and shall
be for the exelusive use of sucii party for the sole purpose of
mnufacturing records for sale b such purchasing company, exeept
that Columbia and MdI may allow any allied, associated and/er
subsidiary company and/or the succ ssor to such companies to use
mid matrices. At no time shall the prouucts of matrices so
supplied by Columbia be dealt with directly or indirectly outside
the Empire of Japan, Kwantung Leasod Territory or Manehukno and
at mo time shall the produots of te matrices so supplied by
Mippomophone be dealt with directly or indirectly inside the
Dapire of Japan, wantung Leased Territory or Manchukuo.
All pressing fees ani royalties are to be accounted fer
quarterly and payment is to be made on the twenty-fifth day after
the end of each quarter.
6. Columbia and I on the one hand and Nipponophem
o the other hand agree to give to each otrer general instrmstiems
regarding the operation or use of any equipment supplied to the
other hareunder and to advise each other from time to time of any
improvements made in or relative to any such eçuipment to the em
that at all times each shall during the tant of this agreememt have
complete possession of all information that the other may have re-
lative to the we and operation of the same. They further agree
frem time to time at the request and expense of the party requesting
the same to furnish each other special engineering service and as-
sistance in the use and opera tion of any e uipment supplied heremmder.
The party requestins information under the provisiems of
this Artisle shakè pay the other party for the cost of preparine
and sending such informm tion and shall bear all other axpenses sun-
neoted therewith.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
7. Colmbia and I on the me hed and Mappo
the other hmand mutually agree at the request of the other to
to sush other the fullest cooperation and assistamse se far es
ke avai lable for such other the results and benefits of the ro
searches of their research experts and departments relating to
gramophones, sound records, accessories and parts thereof. Thay
fis ther agree at the reyuest of the other without charge other than
charges for the provision of material and personnel to give to mmsh
other the fullest ccopere tion and advice in matters conneated with
business but not specified here in suck as finance and the keeping
of accounts.
The parties hereto fw ther agree at the request of the
other to give the otner general instruottions regarding the operatiom
and we of any meronandise purchased hereunder and further agree
fully to advise each other from tize to time of all imppovemats
made or acquired relative to said mercnandise to the end that sugh
party shall be in complcte possession of any information or impreve
ments developed or acquired by the other in respect of suoh merohané-
1s0.
8. Nipponophone shell uuring the continuance of this
greement assist Coiwabla to the best of its abllity in maintainins
In all countries of the world except the Empire of Japam, wantms
Leased Territory. and anchukuo the goouwill and high reputation ef
Columbia rc lative to its business anu goods, and its exelusive
rights in and to its corporate, trade names and/or trademarks, and
any others which it may subsequently have. Nipponophone shall not
without the specific consent in writing of Columbia use or lay
olaim to any trade memes outside the Empire of Japan, Krantung
Leased Terri tory or dancnukuo cnbodying the nane "Coluabia", or
the Twin Notes" device, or the name "Rogal" or any name or mark
similar thereto.
9. s a consiceration for the licenses grented and to
be granted to Nipponophone herounder and as a consideration for
the advice, assistsnce and information to be given to Nippenophone
fhereunder, Mipponophono shell pay to Columbia within thirty (so)
days after the close of eacn fisoal month an amount eyual to 3 (redmed
of the net aales by Mipponophone during such fiscal month, except ( 
the net sales or net receipts by Nipponophone from sales, lemses er( Ape.
other dispositions of television receiving sets and radio brondeast
Sound receiving sets. The amount of said paymente to Colunbia mhall
be net to Columbia, and in the event that any present or future
law ar Government regula tion nec esgitates a deduction from said
payments for taxes or the, like, Nippanophone agrees to pay to
Columbia such additional sum as ahall be e ual to the amount so
deduotod.
10. The parties bereto agree to keep and to cause to
be kept full and acourate records and accounts and either party
ahall have the right from time to time, and at all reasonable
times during business hours, to have a sertified public emountant
or chartered accountant of recognised standing and shility selest-
ed by it examine and andit the resords and accounts of the other
party for the purpose of verifying and determiming the mount due

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.97)
from sush ether party hereunder.
1l. The parties agree to acquire, to the tent thas
they may have the right so to do, from their respective mplogeem
swsh rigits for all countries in the inventions of their mpleyees
respectively made during the course of such employment, relatime
to or applicable to the objects set forth in Artiole 4 hereof, as
will enable them to grant to each other in respect of smsh imve
tions licenses and rigits of tne character and scope as hereim
provided to be granted.
12. Nipponopnone sisll not sssign the hemefit of this
Agreement or any part tnereof. The rights and licenses granted to
Nipponophone are personel and non-assignable and shall not develve
by operation of law or otherwise upon any other person, firm or
company. Codumbia or EI mmy essign this Agreement or any of
their rights, title end interests nerein to any essociated company.
but not to otuers.
13. Colurbia will supply to ipponophone full infoma-
tion concerning all artists' royalties and other obligations in
respect of the matrices which it supplies to Nippnophone which
obligations shall be observed by Nip onopüone and vice ver.
14. Bach cospany dgrees, whenever 'possible in making een
trect with artists to secure exclusive rights for the entire word
so that the benefits of its contracts nay be for both compamies
without any ore contritution than is herein provided.
Provided abways that neitner Nippononhone nor Colwmbia
shall wse recorus of royalty artists or exclusive artists of the
other Company for dutbing for the purpose ofspot broadcasting or
dubbing for reprouuction on filme.
Records of non-exclusive or non-royalty artists may mot
be ueed by either Company for any of thes above-mentioned purposes
waless written agreement is firat obtained from the artist throuch
the Company in question removicg any objection thereto.
15. sippnophone shall be responsible for and binds
itself to pay all copyrights on records manufactured from Columbia's
mtriees where such copyright subsists and vice versa and both eom
panies will supply to eaoh other full information concerning ssh
copyrights. Such copyrights however ehell.not erceed the maximm
amounts agreed upon in the existing and future arrangemente with
the Authors' Societies to whion both Columbia are signatories.
16. In the event of default by either party in the pay
ment of royalties herein specified or if either party shall commit
a breach ofny of the terns and conditions of this agreement and.
sush default or breach shall not be ade good within sixty days
after written notiee anall have been given by the other party
then the other party shall have the ztgasxrignt to determime this agree-
mant but suah determins tion shall not constitute a waiver of any
payments due by one side to the other herounder at that time.
17. Notwithstanding the determination of this agreement

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.94)
sontinue to be performed by both parties in reapeet of all
mde or seld after suah determination from matrices sapplied
mder.
18. In the event of the liquidation of Columbia whethe
volmntary or otherwise (except for purposes of reconstrusti er.
except for the pur pose of amalgamation with or absorption by  imte
ment other than a temporary taking over by the Government in time
of Mational emergency Nipponopione shall have the option at any
time thereafter of fiving six months' notice to Columbia to temmim
ate this agreement. In the event of liquidation of Wipponephome
whether voluntary or otherwise (except for purposed of reeonssmwst
lem or except for the purpose of amalgamation with or abserptiem
by or into añother corporation) or of tno taking over of Mippom
mphone by the Government otiler than a temporary taking over by
the Gevernment in time of Nationsl smergenay, Columbia shall
nave the option at any time thereafter of giving six months' motiee
to Mipponophone to tervinate thia a reement. Upon the expirmtiem.
of any such notice as aforegaid this agreement shall terminate as
of that date.
19. This agreement shall bo construed and the legel
relatioms between the parties hereto interpreted acoording to
the law of England.
IN WITNESS ah F, the partles hereto have caused these
presents to be executed by their officers tuereunto duly muthorised
the day and year first above written.
EL TAIC & MUSICAL INDUSTRILS, LD..
By L. H. White (Sga.)
Attorney in Fact.
  , 
By L. H. White (Sgd.)
Altorney in Fact.
NIPLONOPRONE COMPANY LIMITED.
by J. W. Murray (Sgu.)
hepresentative Director.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.83)
RAL1D & TVI1S AGIG EMNT
between
BCTIC & USIGAL INDUSTRIRS, LTD.
and
HIPPNOPH WE CMPANY, IFD.
Mi pon ol mbls Uxapany.
ies, mineto cho, xa

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.90)
sfrise is at Blyth Rosd, layes, Middlesex, mgland, (hareinerter
G I")  MIPPOOPNL CO., LD., wS rege ofse
La et l2s Kmmesaki, Kewasaki, Japan, (hereinafter ealled "Nippeno-
pheme").
 wésass,  was and controls sertain Japemese petente
or applicetioms for patents and inventioms, seeret infermation.
experiemse, teehnisal data, information and drewings relating
te televis iom reception and radio broadeast sound reseptiem and
is in a positlon to grent licmse for use of the same, and
WHkAs, Mipponophone is desirous of procurins & liesame
lisense wder said patents or applications for patents and the
right to wee ssh secret information, technical datm, esperimse,
dmwings, ets., in the territory here inafter named.
NO, THERRFORE, THIS AGRENMENT WITEESSETH, tt in
emsideratiom of the premises and the mutual sovemnts and agree-
mnts hereimafter contained, it is agreed betreem the pmrties
hem to as follows)
ARTICLEL
DEFINITIUS.
The field of this agreement is televisiem receptim
and mdio broadesst mound reception, and the follo ing tems and
parases employed in this agreement are defined as followes
Television reception means the recoption and reprodee-
tiom of treasitory visible images tranamitted by electrical mesns.
Radio broadoast sound ree eption means the receptiem and
reprodustion of sound broadoast by electramagnetie waves, but
imeludes also reproduetion of sound from phonograph reeords,
when the ayparatus for such reproluction is coabined with mad
partly sommem to the appam tus for the reception of sound broad-
st by electromegme tio waves.
Japanese Empire, Manchukuo, kwantung Leased Territory
and the British Empire means respectively the Japanese Empire.
Memshakno, wantung Leased Territory and the British Empire
as at pesent constituted, the latter inoluiling Egypst and
territories mder British mandate.
ARTICLE II.
HONSIS.
1. mI hereby grants mnd agrees to saat to Mippené
phone wader the patents or applicaté ons far pateats filed in
the Japanese mpire, Manchukmo and Kwaatung Leased Territery

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.93)
able, liesnse within the territory mentiomed in meb-sestéemte)
af this section 1 (with the right to grant sublieemses) to use
seid patents or applicati ons for patents for the mmamatmeture ané
reseiving sets, accessorics ané appurtemnt parts thermof fer
the purpose of distributing same in te territory mentiemed in
mb-sestion (c) of this mation l, but not elseshere, by le,
lease or otherwise, with the rigit to take mction for Lnfringe-
mnte thereof.
(a) None of the licenses herein granted or agreed to
be granted extend to any purpose other tham tele-
vision reception and radio broadoast sond recep
tion.
(b) The licenses haroin granted and agreed to be
granted are under the progent and future patents,
in respect of wnion is or during the
term of this agreement may asquire the right to
grmnt sush license in the territory hereef,
(exsept patonts hereafter acquired ay m by
purehase), in so far as and to the asteat that
sush ptents relate to the equipment herein
referred to.
(e) The territory for which the lieenses are greated
is the Empire of Japan, wantung Leased Territery
and Manchukue, all as at present constituted, aad
Eipponophone agrees not to soll, lease or othed
wise dispose of, either direotly or indireetly.
any equipment produced under this lieemse exsept
in said territory. Wipponophone further agress
not to sell, lease or otherwise sispose of any
equipent produced by it under any patents umder
whish  is entitled to licenses from Mippome-
phone hereunder, or whici is covered by amy serre-
sponding petents of the British Empire ewned y
ml or its associated ompany or companies exsept in
said territory.
2. Mippanophone agrees to grant to  licnses in
all countries other than the Empire of Japan, Swantung Leased
Territory and Manohukuo, all as at present constituted, ander
all patents and applications for patents covering ordinary
fmprovements of other than a major nature and relating to
the equipment mreim referred to for which licenses are hereim
ampressed to be granted, in respect of which patents er applisa-
tiens for pateats Nipponophone or any of isplessociated compaales
may during the term of tuis agreement have or contral the right
te geat such licenses, except patents hereafter asquired by
purejase. Sueh licenses shall be sa azelasive licemss te m
and/or any of its asscciated compamies, mbell be free of regalty

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.93)
一8
or other consideration, shell give ml er aany of iss assestatd
companics the right to mke, we, lease and sell the seapestsve
inventions covered by each patent or appliontiem for a patemé
in countries other than the mpire of Japan, Mwantmms Leased
Territory and Manonuxuo all as at present constituted, and shall
be for the life of the respective patents.
Sippanophone further agrees to offer first te ma the
right to purchase a license in all other ountries ether thes
the Empire of Japen, wantung Leased Territory and Manchakme,
all as at present constituted, for a consideratien to e agreed
apon at ahe time of each offer, under all patents and appliss-
tions for pa tents re lsting to the esuipment herein referred to
oorering improvennts whion are of an jor importanspmthat is to
my are of soh a mture that if adopted by ml, it wmald neses
eitate Enl mterially changing the desin of all sets mamefactured
by it. Mkiling an agreauant as to the consideration to be patd
by m for any such license, Wipponophone shall be at Liberty
to me mid patents in countries other than the Empire of Japan.
wantwng Leased Territory and éenchukuo or to lieense others to
use them. Sueh licenses, if granten to mil, shall be exelwsive
liuenses to l and, 'or sts &asociated companies, shall sive
MI or its associatou coapunies the right to mm ke, use, Lease
and sell the respective inventinns covered by each patemt ar
applioation forpe tant in countries other than the mpire of
Japan, wantung Leased Territory and Manohukuo, all as at presems
constituted, and atall be for thc life of the respective patent
3. R and Nipponophone mutually agree fully to mavise
each other of all improvements which either of them or their
subsidiary compenies make, or of wlich they may be informed,
in respect to television recoption and radio broadeast sound
reeeption to the end tuat each mhall be in cmplete possessiom
of all muoh inforwation possessed by the other.
4. If l hereafter acquires patents or righte uder
patents of the Hapanese Empire or manchukuo applicable to tele-
vision reception or radio brordcast sound reception and pays è
valuable considcretion therefor, it anail offer to Mipponophone
an opportunity to purchage fron it the rignts for the Japenese
mpire, swantung Leased Territory, and/or anehukuo for tele
vision reception and radio broaccast sound receptiom on papment
of a mir share of the total cost. similarly if Nipponophome
hereafter aoquires patents or riguts under patents of the Bri-
tish mpire auplicable to ts lovision reception or madie broad
cast sound rec eption and pays a valuaule consideratiom therefer.
it shall offer to Eil an oppor tunity to purohase frem it the
rights for all or any part of tile Britisn Empire for television
reception and radio broadcast sound reception on pyment of *
ir sare of the total cnst.
5. Whenever licenses under is agreement are based
upon rights hekd by the licensing party under any agreement
requiring the psyment of roya lties or other deferred payments
measured by the uwe of the inventi ons, the party acsepting
such lisense shall wa ke payments mmasured by its se of the
inventions at the same rate and upon the same terms as required

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.94)
by sueh agroeñent.
6. Such of the licenses herein granted and agreed to
be granted as are de sed upon pa tents which are subjeat to rights
in mavour of trird prtios, are subject to the same limitmtioms
and conditions as the rights of the grantor hereunder, and the
party entitled to receive licenses herounder in respeet of sush
patente sball have the option to accept or refuse or at may
time to surrender such licenses.
NTICL 111.
PATMIT APPLICATIONS.
1. As sn as possible after the filing of the com
plete specification of th: first putent applicatim by or im
bebalf of EI in any country on any invontion to whiah mn is
entitled, applicsble to television reception or radio bremdeast
sound reception, El will transmit a copy of sush complete spesi-
fiom ti ons to Dipponophne w'th a atatenent of the filing date of
the patent applicati on and the mame of the country in which it
bas been filed. Mi ponoulione shall have the right to ause carre
sponding applics ti ons to bo filed in Japan in the name of ma.
and I agrecs promptly to cause to be executed proper patemt
applicsti one for such inventions in and for the Japamese mmpire
and/or Manch ukuo then reguested so to do by Nipponophone.
Nipponophonc phall pay MI the out-of-pocket expenses ineurred
by  in oxeouting such ucuments, and shall also pay all
expenses connected wi th the prosecution of said petent applie-
tions, and the cmintonance of saiu patents hen granted.
2. As soon as possible after the filing of the com-
plete specifica tion of the first patent application by or 
bebmlf of Nipponophone in any cowntry on any invention to which
Sipponophone is entitled, applica:le to televisim reception er
mdio broadcast sound reception, with respect to whioh invention
Nipponophone is otligu tod by tho to rms hereof to grant a license
to I, Nipponophone shall trs omit a copy of suoh complete
specifion tion to El with a statotent of the filing date of the
petent application und the me of the country in shich it be
been filed.  all have tho rigt to use corresponding
Applioa ti ons to be filed in the name of Nipponophone in all
countries other than te mpir of apan, Kwantung Leased
Territory and wane hukuo, all as at present anstituted, and
Nipponophone agrees pr mptly to ca use to be executed proper
patent applicntions for snch invantins when reguested so to
do by EsI, l shall pay ipponophone the out-of-pooket expenses
inourred by Yipponophone in executing suoh documents, and shall
pay all expenses sonnected wi th the prosecution of said patent
applications, and the a inteance of said patents when granted,
Nipponophone mmall grant to I a license under any such patent
when granted, as provided in Section z of Article ll bereof.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTICLE L
TECHNICAL INPOMATIOL
1. Each of the parties agrees to furnish to the other
mehmical information witn regard to tolevision receptiem and
radio broadeaat souns reception and to receive the ether's
representa tives at its laboratories'to mcilitte their obtaim
ing at first mnd such informati on, provided, however, that
neither party shall be nbliged to disclose to the other inferme-
tion whioh it bas obtaineu from tuird parties and whieh it is
not at liberty to disclose to the otner, nor in ormation relating
to patentable inventins uefore tent proteotiom has been obtined.
2. All tecunical information and assistance so givem
by cither party to the other ehall be kept confidential at all
times, provided, however, that the parties may commwnieate the
same to their wholly wned sutsidiary conpanies engaged in
business in the rield of this a rceaent, but they will take
all remsonable precautions to eneurc such inforaation shall mot
otherwise be disalosed.
3. The party rrecivin: t cinical information horemnder
mhall pay to the party furnisuing it the cost of preparing and
furnisning it.
4. EsI agrees at tis re uest anú expense of Nippene-
phone fmm time to time to instruct, advise and assist any
engineers designated by Jipponoplone in the use and working
of any ptent, seoret inform tion anu data furnished or to be
furnished hereunder ana for tris purpose agrees that Nippone
phone may from time to tine send engineers to the works, plants
and laboratories wned by l. In any case where suah instruse
éon or assis tance neccssits tes the atsence of any engineer or
employee of Rml from England, Nipponophone shall pay the salary.
tmvelline and mintence expense of such engineer or emplayee
during the perind of his absence.
5. EMI agrees from time to time to deliver to Nipponophone
written deseription of all secret information and a copy of
all data and dmwings in its possession, provided it is not re-
strioted from so doing by the torms of acquisition of the same,
and further mgrees not to furnish any suoh desoription, doouments,
or informati on to others in tho territory for whion a licemse is
granted under this agreesont.
ARTICL V.
JONSILERATION.
As consideration for this agreemmnt Mipponophone shall
pay to MI the following. towit

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.95)
The um of Yom 3, 000, 000 payable ae te Yem 1, 000, 000
upon the esesutien of this agreements as to Ien
1,000,000 within 12 menths after the exeeutism of
this agreament and as to the remsining Ion L 000, 000
within  months after the execution of this agreement
the whole with interest fron the date of exeautim of
this agreement on the ba lance from time te time remmim-
ing unpaid at the rate of 4 per cant per ammum and the
whole free of all taxcs and duties of every deseriptiem
of the Japanese Empire, Awantung Leased Territory d
Manchukuo.
ANTICLE VI.
ROYALTIES
1. Commencing two yuars from the date hereof, ippeno
phone shall pay to mal within thirty (30) days after the clese
of esah fiseal month an amount equal to 3 per cent of the net
amount receivable by Nipponophone fron sales, leases or disposi-
tion of apparm tus for toi visin reception and/or raalo broadeast
sound reception. In addition Nipponophone shall pay to mI one
half of all royalties or other sums collected from lieensees
under licenses granted by Nipponophone in respect of patents
under which lioenses are hcrein granted or agreed to be graated
to Bipponophone, provided, that in no event shall a sub-lisense
be granted on a basis less than a royalty to I of 3 per cent
of the net amount received by sush sub-licensee from sales.
leases er other dimpositions of said eyuipment. In all sales,
Leases or other cispositims by Nipponophone to wholly owmed
or controlled subsidiaries, the 3 per cont shall be saloulated
on the prices at which ths articlee anld, loased or disposed of
by Nipponophone are quoted by such subsiùiary and not on the
amount receivable by Mipponophone from the subsidiary. For &
poriod of less than a fiscal month royalty payments mhall be
paid in the same manner and at the game rate for such fractiom-
al period.
2. The royalties payasle to l hereunder shall be
net to l, and in the event that any present or future lw or
government regulation necessitates a deduction from said pay-
ments for taxee or the like, Nipponophone agrees to pay 
such additional sum as shall be oqual to the amount so deduated.
3. Payment of the monthly royalties shall be mecom-
panied in eaoh oase by a statenent showing the net amount re-
ceivable by Nipponophone from gales, leases or Jispositions
during such month detailed in such manner as EaI shall from
time to time presoribe in writing.
ARTICIE VIL.
GENERAL PHOVISIONS
1.  agrees not to sell, lease or otherwise dispose
of, either directly or inuirectl, in the Japanese mmpire,
Ewantung Leased Territory or Manchukmo, all es at present som-

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.95)
stituted, aay television rec viving sets and/or radie bresdemst
sed receiving sets.
2. ipponophone shsil during the cmtinuanse of this
agreement assist I to te best of its ability in maintining
in all countries of the world except the territory of Mippems-
phene the godwill and ligt reputation of sI and its mabsi
diaries relative to its business and goods and their aslasive
rights in and to their respective corporate names, trade mames
and/or trade marks and any others which they may subseqeently
bove.
3. The rignts ana licenses herounder are persemal
and non-assigmable exoept with the written consent of MI.
Nipponophone may erant sul-licenscs in any part of the territary
in which the lisanscs granted heroby are effective, but Wippene
phone mhall ranain liable for any und all acts, and for any and
all amounts due frxm mach sub-licensnes.
4. Bipponopuono agrecs to keep and cause to be kept
full and acourate r corue tud aocounts of the net amount re
ceivable by it fras sales, leases or dispositions of the equip-
ment subject of the licenses herounder, and I shall have the
rignt from time to time, and at all ressonable times durimg
business-hours, t, nave a certificú publio acoountant or
chartered accountant of rec gnized standing and ability se-
Lectod by it axamine anu audit the rccorás and agcounts of
Nipponophone or of any sub-licensee for the purpose of veri-
fying and determining the anounts due hereunder.
S. Wipponophone shall not without the specifie
consent of mm use or lay claims to any trade marks or trade
names outside the Empire of Japan, Evantung Leased Territory
and Manohukuo embodying the name "Columbia" or "Regal" or the
twin notes device or any naze or mark similer thereto.
6. The arties will take sush precausions as are
reasonable and practicable in thc circunstances for preventing
the eport of their goods vhich would conflict with the provi-
slons of this lioense Agrecpent.
7. The parties agree to acquire, to tas extent that
they may have the right to do, frop their respective employees
suah rights for all countries in the inventions of their em-
playees respectively maae uuring the course of such employment,
relating to the objects set forth in Article 1 hereof, as will
enable them tn grant to cach other in respect of suoh inventions,
liuenses and rights of the character and scope as herein pro-
vided to be granted.
8. If oither party shall conuit any breach or be in
default in the performance of any of its obligations hereunder.
the other party mhall be entitled by notise to temminate this
agreament and any license granted hereunder at or after the
expiration of sixty (60) days from the date of smid notise, but
suoh terminatiom shall be without prejudiee to sush ather party's

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.96)
reason ef smsk demult or breach.
9. In the event of the liquidatiom of mI, whether
voluntary or etherwise, (except for purposes of resemstrustiem
or except for the purpose of amalgamati on with or sbserptiom by
er into another corporation), or of the taking over of mI 
the Government, other than a tamporary taking over y the
Govermment in time of Mational Emergeney, Nipponophome shall
have the optien at any time thereafter of giving siz momths'
notiee to il to terminate this agreement. In the event of
liquidation of Nipponophone whether voluntary or otherwise,
(exeept for purposes of reconstruction or except for the
purpose of amalgamation witn or absorption by or into another
corparation) or of the taking over of Nipponophone by the
Government, other than a temporery taking over of Mippemophome
by the Govornment in timo of Mational Amergenay, mI shall have
the opthom at any time thereafter of giving six months' motise
to Mipponophone to terminate this agreement. Upon the expire.
tien of any such notice aforessid, all lioenses granted or
agreed to be grmanted herounder shall forthwith cease and determime
and shall forthwith revert to the respective grantor as of the
date of such pimtion.
10. I and ipponophone caon mgree to supply to the
other on demand at cost plus 10 per cent thereof, any televisim
receiving sots, redio broadcast sound receptin sets, acsessories
and parts thereof whien they my manuracture or produse se ar
as they have same available. The azpression cost as hereim used
shall be the full motory cost thereof to the produser ineludims
* proportiom of faotory overhead, but noother overhesd, plws
eaxport packing and all f.o.b. out-of-pocket expenses.
11. All questions or differences whatsoever which mmy
arise at any time between the partion hereto toushing these
presents or the subjoct-matter thoreof or arising out of or in
relation thereto respectively and wnether as to constructim
or otherwise shall be subpitted to arbitration in Bngland and be
referred to a sinble arbitrator in case the parties can agree
upon one, otherwise to two arbitrators, one each to be appointed
by Mipponophone and I, and in cither case in accordance mh
and subjeot to the provisions of the Arbitration Aot of lseg, or
any statutory modification thereof.
12. This agreement is not assignable by either of the
partins hereto without the consent in writing of the other party.
13. This agreement shell be construed and the legal
latiom beween the partios herato interpreted according to
the ls of England.
14. Until written notice of ouange of address is per-
sonally served by either party on the other, any notice or re-
quest with reference to the subjest matter of this sgreement
shall be deemed to have been suffislently givem, whem, if givem

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.89)
ayes, Middloses, Eagland.
ush metiee shell be deened to have beem served
date when in the ordimery course of post it sheald mave beem
delivered.
In wITäks Whnsos, the parties hereto have eemee
these presents to be ezesuted by their officers thereunte duly
autherised, the day and year first abovo written.
ÉLECTRIC & MUSICAL INDUSTRIEB, NMITED
By
L. H. mite (sd.)
Attorney in Fast
IPPONOPHONE CONPANY. LIMITED
By
J. . Murray (.)
Representative Direster

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
THIS AGRKEAENT
Is mede the ses and day of Besambee
1985
B ET W E E  BLECTRIC & MUSICAL IHDUSTRIES EENET
whese registered office is at Blyth Rend dayee adélenen
Magland (hereimafter called "u") ef the firat part MIprom
INDUSTRIAL OMPANY LIMITED whose registered efTÉSe is se
Maranouehi Tokyo Japan (hereinafter called "Wisstm") of the
"Mipponophone") of the third part and COLRBIA GRAPROPMO
COMPANY OF JAPAN LIMITED whOSe registered offiGe is t
(hereimfter called "Columbia Japan") of the fourth part
SUPPLEMENTAL to sn AGRE MENT (hereinAfter called "the
Primsipal Agreement") made the 13th day of September 1955
between al and Nipponophone a copy whereof is met out in
the Sokedule hereto
# H E B X A S Nissan Nipponophone and Columbia Japan are
desirous that the rights granted to Kipponophone under the
Prinsipal Agreement ehall be transferred t Nipponophone to
Columbia Japan
A  D WHs E is agrecable to such transfer upon the
terms hereinafter set forth
N O W IT Is AKRKBY AGRED by and eetween the parties
hereto as follows -
with the aonsent of KiI testified by its exeaution
of this Agreement Nipponophone heroby assigns to Colwabia
Japan with effect from l4th September 1935 all the rights
granted to Nipponophone under the Principal Agreement and
Columbia Japan hereby accepts such rights and wadertmkes
the obligations expressed to be undertaken by Nipponophome
in the Principal Agreement
2.
NorwITisTAäDlNg the foregoing Mipponophone shll remmin
liable for all the obligations expressed to be undertaken by
it under the Prinoipel Agreement
Missan and Nipponophone jointly and severally garmatee
the duo payment of all royalties and other censidermtions
payable and the due performance and observamme of all
obligations undertaken by Nipponophone and Columbia Japan
respestively under the Principal Agreement and/or this
Agreezent
4.
Missan Nipponophone and Columbia Japan Jointly and
severally gumrantee that in the event of the liquidatiem of
Columbia Japan or the happening of any event whereky any of
the rights under the Prinoipal Agreement shall pass to asy
party other than Nipponophone or Columbia Japan they will
procure that such party shall make due payment of all
royalties and other consideretions and shall ebserve and

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.93)
this Agreement
The royalties expressed to be payable under Artiele v
B.
of the Principal Agreement shall be payable in respest of
the aggreg te weles and/or lieense royalties effeeted or
receivable by Nipponophone and Celumbia Japan amd any ether
party to whom any of the rignts uader the Prinsipal Agreement
may pass
the
This Agreoment and/obligations hereby madertakem ig
Nissan Mippenophone anu Columbia Japan shall be in additiem
to any other gazatas guarantees agreements or ebligatiems alrendy
existing
Clause 8 of Article 7 of the principal agrement ss met
7.
by altering the word "Sixty" to Winety" and by adaing at the 
thereof the following :-
"Provided horever tuat the party to whom swsh metise
is given may avoid suca ternination by mking soed
before expiry of such notice the breach or default
complaimed of"
IN WIThess whereof the parties herete have cawsed
these presents to be duly executed the day and year first
above written
For and an behalf of
ZIKCTHIC & MUSICAL INDUSTII LIMITED
Louis Sterling (Sgà.)
Director
(3gd.)
Jecretary
For and on behalf of
MIPPON INDUSTHIAL CONPANY LIMITED
I. A1kewa
(ssd.)
President
For and on behalf of
NIPPONOPHOEE COMPAHY LIMITED
Approved
M. Miho (Sgd.) President
G.Charlesworth(Sga.) Inspestor
For and on behalf of
COLIMBIA GHAPHOPBONE COPANY OF JAPA LINITED
J..urra(Sd.)
Approved
Vice president & Director
"G.Charleswerth(sgd.) Inepester

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.90)
DATED
THE MONTECATINI &C. COMPANY
54
and -
THE DAI NI PON JINZOHIRYO COMPANY
NT
- for -
USER OF L. FUS IN JAPAN
&c.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.94)
greement made the sixteentà day of March
Ome thousand nime kundred and twemty six B & T w & E W
SOCIETA GENERALE PER L'INDUSTRIA MINERARIA ED AGRIGOLA
Italy and caro of Banee Commerciale Italiana 39a Thre
London ingland (whioh ompany is hereinafter referred to s the
Montocatini Company" which expression shall wherc the contoxt ren
quires or admits include their successors in title) of the me
part and .  N.   Y  LI of Toko Jpn
and care of essrs Okure  o. of 53 l.ew Broad Street London Rngla-
nd (whioh Company is hereinefter referred to as "the Da1 Nippon Co")
which expression shall wher the contoxt so requires or admits
inolude its successors in tinle, of the other part nkas the
Montecatin1 Company has for certain countries other than Italy
and inoluding Japan and  anchuria the sole and unfettered con
trol or certain inventions Letters patents processes and techa
nical detalls for the procuet on of electrclytlc hydrogen and
aynthetio amaonis and for the roduction of nitrogen and for t.
the oxidisation of anmonia hion inventions und prooesses are
comonly known as und togetnar eith improvenents thereon the
subject of this greement sre nereinarter collectively referred
to as the Fauser process  certain ettere Patent ha
been granted or applied for in wuran and such Letters Patent
and applications in Japan ure set ut in the schedule hereto
headed "sohedule of Japanese atents  " as the Mon
tecatini Company hes for some time past either itself or by the
subsidlary or associated vomoanies controlled by it produced
electrolytic hydrogen and synthetic acmonia and sulphate of
ammonia at thefr various vorks ls itely in accoruanoe with the
Fauser Frocess on a conmercial scale Nd  the Montoce
tini Company and the Dai Nippon Company desire that the Fau-
ser process should be used and worked in Japan and the Monteca-
tini Company has agreed that the Da1 Nippon Company shall use 

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
the Pauser Prosess with all improvemeate  
which the Montecatini Company now use and wenk es
previously used and worked for the production of elestrelytle
drogren nitrogen synthetic ammonia eto. together with emy 
ments which shall heroafter be made thereon in Japan and Manehuri
(hereinafter more particularly specified and called the Japamese
Zone) upon the terms hereinafter ep earing N 0  THESE PREsNTs  I
T N E S 3 as follows/-
1. (a) The Montecatini company will us and when requested so to do
by the Dat Nippon Compuny grant to the ai Mippon Company
censes in accordance witn Japanese u" under all or any of the
Letters Patents referred to in the chodule of Japanese Patonts
or of any ratents subsocuenti grnnteu on any applioations refer
red to in the said sohedule nd such other Letters Patents as may
be granted in Japen in reopect of the Fauser Prooess or any part
of it suoh Lioenses to be in the fomn set out in the Third Sehodule
hereto or as similar thereto s mmy ce possible under Japamose
Law (b) The Montecatini Company herey authorise he Daiippon
Company to use and work the  suser rocess or any part thereof
in the Japanese Zone and to vend in the Japanese 2one all produe-
ts resulting from suoh manufacture.
2。
Ty Monteoatini Sompan will within four months from the
date hereof furnish the si ippon Jompany with a complete sot
of drawings and plans specificctions and full instruotions and tooh
teohnioal deteils for tho construetion end working of a mamufao-
turing plant capable of produoting by the Fauser Process three
thousand eight hundred tons of fixed nitrogem oalculated in the
form of sulphate of ammonie per annum at normal working conditions

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.96)
a will from time to time furnish the Dai Wippen Ge
ether imformation in their possission requisite or desirable
effieient and economical construction and working of mmeh plast.
THE Montecatin1 Company will also from time to time and a
as may be necessary during the continuance of this Agreement allow
the Engineere Chemists and other representatives of the Dai ippom
Company. full access to the vorks of the Montecatini Company in Italy
to enable suoh engineers chenists or other representatives of e Dai
Nippon Company to accuire the fullest technical information and mow
ledge of the Fruser frocese and the method or plant for the use and
werking thereof.
THm Montocatinin1 Company wiii cleo supply to the Dai Nippon Com
pany any part of the necessar, plant or en, ingredient or material in-
oluding catalysers recuired for the working of the plant or preeess
which the Montecatini Compan, iteelf manufectures or prepares the torme
of suoh suppl to the Dai Fippon Compeny shall be those on whioh the
Montecatini Company sunplies similr rticles to ito subsidiary
Compaiee or other Licensees of the suser Procese The Montecatini
Company will also provide and place at the disposal of the Dai Nippon
Companu engineers and foremen to assist in the erection and mounting
and starting of the said plant an will if so recuired by the Dai
Wippon Company use its best enueevours to assist the Da1 ippon Company
in obtaining other expert staff as may be recuired for the continued
working of the process The ri ippon Company shall pay to sueh engin -
eers and foremen ae may be so provided by the Monteoatini Company t
their proper trevellig expenses a subsistence allowanee ewuivalent
to the cost of euita le boerd snd lodging in Japan and a salary in
Japanese currenoy not less than the eguivalent of their salaries in

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
Italy Such payments by the Dai Nippon Company mhall be
peried of their employment in Japan together with
fide required for Journeying between Milan and Japan and rotura
to Milan.
3. (a) IN the event of the Nontecatini Company becoming possessed of
further informasion relating to the user of the said Fauser Procese
or any part of it or of any improvement in the said Process or any
part of it the kontecatini Company will at onoe communicate sueh in
formation to the Dal Nippon Company and empower it to make use of
such information If the infornation or improvement be such as to
oapable of being protected by etters . atent in Japan the Montecat
ni Company will use its best unoeavours to prevent any prior publi-
cation of the invention in  n f it the time of making applie
tion for any such Letters tent In Japan the Dai Nippon Company 
shall have by virtue of the terms of this greament become emtitled
to the sole and exclusive  icunses of the Jepanese latents then
such applioations shall e  e so the resulting atents (1f any)
granted in the name of the i 1 pon ompany In such case the Dai
Nippon Company shall bear te e ense of the application for and
grant of and license under n sue potent Frovided that if sube
quent to an, such epplicatlon s aforesaid the Dal Nippon Company
shall become entitled under the provisions of this agreement to an
exolusive license under uny Letters atent granted in pursuance of
any such epplication such Letters atent shall be assigned to the
Dai Nippon Company at their expense if however the Dai Nippon Com-
pany shall be entitled to non-exclusive Licenses of the Japanese

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
Patente then such application and Patents (if amy) mhail 
the name of the Montecatini Company and the Dal Mippem 
shall be entitled to Licenses thereunder in the form set out
in the Third Schedule hereto The Dai Nippon Company shall bea
the expense only of License under any such Patent to them.
(b) IN the event of the ai ippon Company becoming possessed
of further information relating to the user of the said auser
Process or any part of it or or any improve ent in the said
process or any part of it the i i ompany will at one
communicato suoh informt e ontecatni company and 
power it to make use of soo: informetion in its various works
in Italy If the informati  improvement be such as to be oa
pale of being protecteo yetters  atent in Italy the Dai Ni-
ppon ompany will use its st ndeavours to assist the Monteca
tini Company to obtain suc. protestion by the grant of Letters
Patent in Italy and in particutar  iil use its best endeavour
to prevent any prior puc to tin ef the information or invention
in Italy such Letters Patent as  y be obtainable in Italy shallb
be taken out in the name    onteeatini Company who shall
bear the expense of the polientions and Grant and shall as botwon
the Dai Nippon compeny e e ontecatini Company be the sol
proporty of the Montecatini Company.
4。
Thb Dai Nippon vompan, ill proceed to erect in Japan a works
or plant for the manufucture of the  roducts nd shell ereet and
shall commence produstion it such plant not later than the thirty
first day of Mecember One thousané nine hundred and twenty soven
The first plant so erected shall under the normal conditions have
an estimated end expocted output in tons of nitrogen caloulated in
the form of sulphate of ammonis equal to that mentioned in Clause
2 hereof per year.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.96)
Tmt actual eapacity ef the first plant may at any
be inereased to the extent of fifty per cent by the
Cemmeny and such first plant whether of the original or imei
ed capacity shall be operated by the Dai Nippon Compamy in.
accordance with the provisions set out in First Schedule heroso
and herein described us Project 1. PROVIDED AYS that if the
capacity of the plant as designed by the Montecatini Company mhall
be less than the capacity mentioned in lause 2. hereof the Dai
Nippon Company shall nevertheless ve entitled to inerease the
capaoity of such plant up to fifty per cent above such declared
capacityo
6.
IF the Dai Nippon Jompemy snall have before the thirtioth
June One thousand nine hunaret and twenty aight declared to the
Montecatini Company their intention or ereoting in aocordanco
with Project 1 or in accordauce  it: roject 2 a plant of a do
clared capacity exceedin ive thousund tons fixed nitrogon in
the form of sulphate of ammonia or other chemical compounds p
annum (inclusive of the production of the initial plant whether
increased by fifty per cent or not) and shall have during the
first six months of une taousand nine hundred and twenty eight
produced nitrogen at the rate of ive thousand tons per annum
And in the avent of the production neing under Projeot 1 thoy 
ahall have declared on or before the irtieth June One thousan
nine hundred and t enty nine weir intention of inoreasing the
plant to a declared capacity exceeding Ten thousand tons per
annum end shall have during the rirst six months of One thousand
nine hundred and twenty nine produced nitrogeßn at the rate of
Ten thousand tons per annum then the Dai Nippon Company shall
have the sole and excluseve right  to the Licenses or the said
Japanese Patents and shall be the sole grantees of all rights to

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.95)
-7。
use and work the Fauser process ar any part theresf im
se Zone PRoVIDED ALWaS that the said right ee have
exelusive License or Licenses shall not be forfeited by
any deficionoy in the Said rate or rates of produotion so long mes
any minimum rotalty payable under the terms of Projeet 1 Claume
B during the period or periods mentioned in this clause is duly
The Montecatini Company hereby agree that they will net prier
to Thirtleth June One thousand nine hundred and twenty eight grant
any license to any person fir: or ompany other than the Dai Nippon
Company to use the rauser process or any part thereof in the Japan-
ese Zone and that if prior to hirtieth June one thousand nine
hundred and twenty elgnt the ul M1ppon Company shall have deolared
their intention of erectin in accordance with frojeot 1 or Projoet
2 hereof a plent of declares a mcity of not less than Five thousand
tons per annum in accordano, ith the first part of this Clause thon
the Monteoatini Company will not rior to Thirtieth June one thousand
nine hundred and twenty nine grant sny lioense to any person fim
or Company other than the Da1 Mippon Company to use the Fauser Proeea
or any part thereof in the Japanese one. nd the Montecatini Com-
pany will in sucn circum- stances use its best endeavours to prevent
the information and knovled e in its possession or oontrol relating
to the Fauser rocess fron bein: communicated to any other person
Company or body for use in the Jnoanese Zome.
7.
IN the event of the bai Nin on Company proposing the construetion
of any additional plant other than the initial plant and the permitt
Fifty per cent inerease thereor nd any modifications or roplacement
thereof then the al Nippon Jompany shall make such proposal to the
Montegatini Company and the Montecatini Company shall for the period
of three months from the receipt oy them of suoh proposal have the

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
psien to require such further plant to be constrested 
sm meserianee with Project 2 as set out in the Secomd
to Pailing sueh eleetion by the Montecatini Campany fer Prejoes 2
within the said period of three monthe the Dai Nippen Cempemy mhels
te at liberty to make construct and operate such plant in seerdam
with Project 1 and thereupon the provisions of the preceding elause
hereof shall become operative. The Die Nippon Company shall deelar
its definite intentions within three months of such comianieation by
the Monteeatini Company.
8.
IN the event of Project 2 being put into operation the Dai Ni-
ppon Company shall be at liberty to continue to operate under the
provisions of Project 1 ell plant constructed under Projeet 1 whe-
ther oonstrueted before or after the coming into effect of Prejeet
2 and if the Dai Nippon Company shall have complied with the previ-
sions of Clause 6 hereof the Dai Nippon Company shall be the sole
and exelusive grantees of all rights for the Japanese Zome save omly
1n so far as it may be necessary to grant rights to the new Company
to be formed under Project 2.
9.
THE benefit of the contract may not be assigned by the Dai
Nippon Company to any person Company or body in the Japanese Zone
nor may sublicenses be granted without the previous consent in wri-
ting of the Monteoatini Company.
10.
THE*Dei Nippon Company for itself and for its permitted assigms
(if any) hereby agrees that none of the products manufactured by
them under this agreement shall be sold or exported outside the
Japanese Zone and the Dai Nippon Company will use its best emdeave-
urs to prevent any unauthorised exportation but such agreement by
the Dai Nippon Company shall not in any way render the Dai Nippon
Company liable in damages or otherwise in respect of any wrongful

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
male or exportation by a Purohaser from it over whosè
Dai Nippon Company has no ocontrol PROVIDED ALWAYS that moithe
this olause nor anything herein contained shall be deeme to
prohibit the Da1 Nippon Company from exporting mixed fertilt-
sers containing a percentage of sulphate of ammonia or other
products manufactured by the auser Process such percentage not
to exoeed five per cent of fixed nitrogen.
11.
SUBJECT only to the due fulfilment by the Montecatin1 Com-
pany of the agreements on their part herein contained the Dai
Nippon Company for it self end for the permitted assigns of the
benefit of the contract hereby agrees and undertakes with the Mo-
nteoatini Company that neither the Jai ipnon Company nor 1ts
permitted assigns will directly or indirectly produce by any me-
thod except the Fauser rocers In the Japanese Zone electrolyti
hydrogen (except as e by-product o other industries) or syathe-
tio ammonia or othor chemicnl prouucts obtained by means of the
Fauser Process or vend any such products so produced in the said
zone until the Thirty firat ecember One thousand nine hundred
and forty PRoviuiD that such undertakin on behalf of any pormitt
ed assigns shall be by way only of bind ing such permitted assigns
to these conditione and shall not render the Dai Nippon Company
liable in dameges for ony breach of such condition by any permitt-
ed assign PRoviup ss that nothing herein contained shall be
deemed to prohibit the e! ippon Company from continuing to manu-
faoture synthetic ammonia up to a meximum cuantity of Three hund-
red and sixty five tons per annum and to vend the same by the mo-
thod or process by whioh the Dai Nippon Company has for some time
past manufactured synthetio ammonia at its works in Japan or by any

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.95)
improvement thereon
12.
The paymonts to be made by the Da1 Nippon Company
pmäer this
Agreement shall continue until the Thirty first December one thou-
sand nine hundred and fort after which date the Dai
Nippon Company
smhall be at liberty to une ne vork the Fauser Process and all im-
provement theredf communicated
to them in purouance of the terms of
this agreement by the ontecatint ompan and cll improvements made
thereon by the Dai ipnon omoan. tthou any further payment by way
of royalty capital sum or otherwise ftor the thirty firet Degomber
One thousand nine hundred an orty the ontecatin. Compeny shall no
longer be under any obligetion to m ke further communioatione of in-
formation or improvements  thei
ippos Company save that they
shall if required communie te to the ai ippon ompany the manner
of making an plant materinl or  resicnt necessary for working the
said process or any part t  panese
Patents relating
to the Feuser Process and an i rovements thereon and in respeot
of whioh the Lei ippon onnan a been granted or could olaim to
be granted icenses by reeson or this reoment shslli
forthwith be
assigned absolutely to s i omen without further
pay-
ment other then the proper wort  otin such aseignment
13.
IT I   ny  D thet thi: oatreet shall be construed and
Interpre ted ceeoraine to the tm  iad and that the English
Courts of Law shall heve jurisdiction to try end determine all or
any dispute of disutes crisin betcen the parties in respeot of
this contract ens for thi purpose the p rties hereto eleot domioile
in London at the followins cadresses namel: for the Montecatini Com-
pany at ancs Comme ciale Iteliana 39e Threadneedle Street London E.
C. 2. and for theDai Nippon Company C/o Mersrs Okura & Company of 57
that all doou-
New Broad Street London E.C.2. IT IS HEREBY AGREED

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.94)
11-
ts and other preceedingsin any matter or dispute in
with the sontract shall be deemed to be velidly eerved on the re
speetive parties if left for them at their respective addreases in
London bove mentioned unless such adüress or addresses shall
been changed by the party concerned and notice in writing of suoh
ohange and of the new or substituted address shall have been given
to the other party when suoh new or substituted address shall be the
address for service in place of the former addrese.
In any matter in whioh either by the terms of this Agreement
or by the Laws of nglene or the ules of Frocedure of any Court
of Justice in England time sheli or deemed to run egainst the par
ty so served witn any notice document or proceeding theb suoh time
shall be deemed to be  ree o be xtanded by the normal time in
transit of a postel packet fro ondon to the address of the party
so served in Italy or Japan nn the cane may be and return by tho
next available mail to London ls ten daye.nd suoh extension
of time shall equally apply i the event of the service of suoh
notice dooumet or proceedin bin ccepted by any Solicitor in
England on behalf of eithe: ort, no the osse may be.
14.
trouowout thie gree ent the exerension "tone" means motrio
tons of one thousand kilogrnam.
 F bove referred to
1. The Dai Mippon Company shall esteblish either s special service
to be oalled "the Nitrogen rerice or a new Company for the ex
ploitation of the Fauser frocess in the Japanese zone and such
service or Company shall be devoted exolusively to the exploitation

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
ef synthetle ammonia and other produets by the Pamser a
2. This service or qompany shall keep separate aceeuntm
accounts so far as they show the quantities sold and priee of
sale shall be inspeoted by an Auditor appointed by the Mo
tecatini Company and anproved of by the Dai Nippon Company.
3. The payments to be made by the Lai ippon Company to the
Montecatint Compan n renneet of any plant or plants oporated
under this pro ject shall to ns followe.
(A) CAPITAL SU:
For the first plant of the estimated anaual output mentioned
in Chause four hereof the capital sum of 
200,000(two hundred
thousand yen) for the first 25'( tons or such estimated annual
output and 40 yen per ton of the balsnee of suoh estimated
annual output of whicn sum one third shall be paid on the ex-
ecutfon of this Agreement one third on the delivery by the
Montecatini Compeny of the matters referred to in lause 2
of this Agreement and the balance on the Thirty first Decem-
ber One thousand nine hundred and twenty seven For any inor-
ease in the actual output over :he ectimeted output of the
first plant or for eny svbsenuent plent agreed to be operated
under this project a pepital fum of 40 yen for eaoh ton of
nitro en caloulated in the form of sulnhate of ammonia per
annum output of the olant.
(5)
ANNUAL ROYALTIE.
n annual royalty of s (five per cent) on the sele pri-
ce of t e ulonete of ammonin manufectured under the Fauser
rocens and in the cas of other products produoed under
the auser rooess on the value of the nitrogen content cal-
culated according to the ourrent price of sulphate of ammonia

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.94)
-13-
en the basis that one ton of sußphate of ammonie sontes
of nitrogen.
The price of sulphate of ammonia shall for thie purpose
be the real average price at which Dai Nippon has mold to its
oustomers bu shall not be less than the real average wholemale
market price calculs as on the ba is of net price without tare
and F.o.. at the i ipon Somnmy's  orks. The Auditor appon
ted by the onteoatil onny l  siven all necessary fa
cilities for enouirin ints the veal average whotesale market
prioe and the bulletis i he ukogawa Fertilizer Associa
tion (Fukagawa Hiryo Yumtai) is ki shall be taken as referenee.
The annual royalt  clculated in half yearly in
stalments up to the th une md the lst December in eaeh year
and each instalment shall  asee on the average wholesale price
of sulphete of ammonis surins e rlr pear in respeot of which
the royalty is eo oeloulstea veh n tice shall be paid within
30 daye of the 30th Jone ne lat
ceember respectively.
The said royalty shall not  xeant us hereinafter provided
be less than 60 of 5 on the utt  hich the capital sum 1s
caloulated of the plant nd ue re lty or 1.e. 60 of 5%
shall be e minimum royalt not decendent on cotual output save
as hereinafter mont1oned
rethat in the event of
the production being reduced belor  of Quch output by reason
of force majeure or destruction of the plant which expression
shall for the pyposee of this cl mse include earthquakes flood
fire and general strires in the Japanese one then the minimum
royalty shell be pro tanto reduced  vr nevertheless that
such reduction in minimum royalty shall be conditional upon the
Dei ippon Company using its best endoavours to restore the pro-

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.93)
-14-
duction of the plant to at least 60 of such output At he be
ginning of eagh half yearly period in respeet of whioh royalty
will be payable the ai ippon Company shall pay in advanee to
the Montecatini vom any u ecusl to a minimum royalty on
such output f lnt end bosed on the everage wholesal
price of sulohate   ir for t e receding half year, and
such su shall e  io co tor or cresited in the payment of ro-
yalty at the end of t  tf yearly period.
4. The payments above mentio nco both as to capital sume and
annual royelties chall
De in
iian allowing the necessary
time for dabie transit from o io to ilan.
5. The te1 Eippon omosrt ehall have the right to apply for the
extension of any of the  Jaunese etters Patent so far as
permissible under e d the
Ontecatini Company shall
et the request and expense of the i ippon  ompany do all things
necessary to secure e xte io of the etters Patent and the
a1  inpon Company shall be entitled to en extension of any Li-
cense to them of sny such extended atent.
above referred to
3
EI
1. The ooiete ontecatini und tho n1  ippon ompany will
jointly from a new Japanese voupany sonstituted according to
Japanese
haw hereinafter called the "Joint Hew vompany" eaoh
of the perties contrihuting half the capital, and the amount of
capital of which will heve to be arranged by agreement between
the parties ach of the two vompenies shall have the right to
appoint h lf the Direotors of the Jo int New Company and half of
Company
its uditors Meither the Dai Nippon nor the Monteoatini Compa-
ny shall e liable for the commitments of the Joint New Company.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
-15-
2. The Da1 Nippon Company and the Montecatin1 Compamy may
transfer any of the shares allotted to them
3.
The Montecatini ompany will transfer to the Joint Mow
Company all its ri, hts for the
Japanese Zone in the Fauser
Process and all improvements thereon end will grant to the
Joint New Com any ieebees f ll Jepanese atents subjeot
only to such llcencsa
 reuired byth Dai Nippon
Companu under  vo jeot
und ill co munioate to the Joint
New Company all informetion and
improvements in like manner
as it shall comaunioete t to
the ei Mippon Jompany in
accordance with this
greement.
4.
The Dr ip on Domoan ndertaker to obbain for the Jo-
continaoas
int
Sew Sompany on its rormstion  contract for
the supply
of electric energy for enr ror at loast ight thousand
nours pornnst not more
than 1.2 sen per ki-
lowatt hour of ire
 delivereat the work and not
including tranfor tion co: ts or no: more than O. 8 sen
per kilowatt hour ireet vurrent delivered at the works and
not including transformatio costs if the wei ippon Company
1s able to control the priee of only. But the Dai Nippon
Compan. shall not be vouns to ootain  renewal of suoh con
tract or eny new contraet o itn deternination.
5. Tid Joint Mev Som any sll sive to the Dei Nippon Com-
pany the sole end exelusive 1  mgonoy for the produots
of the Joint ow Comnany in the Jepenese one. The Dai
Mippon shell under such ageney receive a commission of two
per cent of the amount of such sales. The prioe of the
produets for the purpose of computing the commission shall
be the wholesnle price for delivery at the Joint New Co-
pany's  orks on the besis of net without tare

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.93)
-16-
6. THE Joint New Company shall pay each year up to the thi
ty first December One thousand ninehundred and forty to. the
Montecatini Company by mey of ro alty e share in its profits
whioh shall be determined in the manner set out in Annex "A"
hereto
the votai prothali edueted in the
first place e five per cent vortion.vieh shall be carried
to the reserve renuire  ane  unti this reserve
shall have reached the re urileu lm in the second place
a sum equal to 8 per cent  tn o I vested in the Joint
New Company shall to carrira to the peerve for depreoiation
until this reserve shall tove cereoco the valve of the money
invested in the Joint
er oosn in he thivd olace a eum
ecual to eight per ce t o c t ves c ital. wnich shall
be divided among the harehe ue  we ef interest o di-
vidend. The balance of the ri  tor these deductions and
pa. ments shall be called the ir:t emainder
of which eight
per cent shall
be dietrtutu to a iveetors end employees
as bonus in the folloviaanr:  ree
er cent for the
ireotors eopointedhe
ontoer inl omoan three per cent
for the ireotore aphoites b tei
tonon ompany and
two per cent for tnc employec
A further eignt per cent or teirst emainder shall
be applled to the employees' penslon fund. fter this division,
the further balence or orofits shell be called the Second Re-
mainder, of this second remt inder there shall be paid 20%

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.90)
-17-
(twenty per cent) to the Montecatini Company as Royalty dwrime
the entire period of payments of such royalties as stated above
Ti rest of the profits shall be divided among the sharehol
ders.
TH
twent ber cent must never be below the amount of a
minimum royelty baseo on the prolucling canacity of the works
of the Joint mes onp e loul: te tn te ame manner as the
minium roy1t1un
ahove rererred to
   th
of
192
MONTEO1.
INDUSTRIA
 aheicensor) of
the one pert nd TaNY LmITD
(hereinsfter called theiceneer or  vther part w H
 by an greement me te on the iceneor and
the Lioensee on the
1926 it was
agreed that the icen or nt to the icensee (inter
alla) o Licence of unde
teas to
in manner
hereinefter oneevina
SD
as follows;
1.  pureuance of vor
creenl no in consideration of
the Licenseen olfetton oni tn rer cgreement the
Licensor hercby grante vnte the ieeneeo full License and
authority to make uee exereise mne vend the vroduet or pro-
duote or any of them and to do all things which ca  be made
used e ercised vended or done under and in accordance with
the specifioation of the said Letters Patent NO.
of
within Japan and Manohuris and sll other countries

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.91)
-18-
for the residue now unexpired of the term for whieh the mais
Letters Patent were granted end any extension or renewal
thereof
2. Tir Licensor her covenante with the Licensee that the
Liceneor hn fuil uar to rent the Lieensee the Lioence
hereby grente
Z.
e hicensor her b covenante vit: the Licensee that
during
the eei e roe  tee ters tor which the said
lettere Patent were r ted or any such extended term the
Licensee hall veacsetl:  cietly enjoy the rights and
privileges granted b. trese presents vithout any interrup-
tion or interference  t icen or or ny person or persons
or body corporate  rivi itle uader it
4. If shall be lwul or the icensee in the name of and
at the expense of the
leensor to take or defend all legal
proceedings neceser  tset the  iettere Patent and to
prevent eny infrin ement t ereer und tse icensor will toive
to the ioensee for suel r li inrormation and assistan
ce in its power
5.
Thr Licensor vill  : l reneval fees in fespeet of the
sa1d J tters
etent.
100
THI
IND
made the
day of
192
   MOTI CI TA NTRALS ER LINDUSTRI
II. 0 IcoL ( hereinafter called the Licensor)
of the one part and THE DAI NIPPON JINZOHIRYO COMPANY
LDMI
t (hereinafter called the icensee0 of the other part

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.90)
-19-
E A S byan Agreement madebetween the Licenso
Licensee on the 16th day of March 1926 it was agreed that
the Liceneor should grant to the Licensee (inter alia) a Li-
cence under Jepanese atent o.
in manner hereinafter
appearins
Is follo
1.
 mursurmee o ue e ment and in consideration of
the Licensees oh i tio contsined in such egreement the Li
censor hereby rants unto he ieensec full end exolusive Li
cenee and authori
ererciee ad vend the produet
or producte or an  tt thinge whicn can be
made used exeroised venuou or uove nder and in accordance with
the pecification o the i etter stent No. of
within Jepan and
erl other countries (if any)
in whioh the said lte tent snnlt nve effect for the
residue now unexpire c rorhieh the eaid Letters
ratent were ranteion orenewel thereof
2.
THh siceneor  itn the icensee that
the icensor
werttre icensee the Liceno
hereby grantec
3.
hieonsor
covemwith the bicensee that
during the snid re lowe ot the tera for vhich the said Letters
ratent were rane ene  e esteneed term the Lioensee
shall peeeoabl enjo te  sts pau urivilegee granted by
these presents withous ny tntervuotion or interference by
the Licrneor or m person or pereone er body corporate
deriving title under it
4.
It shall be Lewful for the loensee in the name of the
iccnsor to take or defend all legal proceedings necessary

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.92)
-20-
to protect the said Letters Patent and to prevent any 
ingement thereof and the Licensor will give to the Lieemses
for suoh purpose ell information and assistance in its power
but the Licensee shell pay end phall indemnify the Licensor
from and against all costs ana expenses inourred in so doing.
5.
Tim Licennee will . all renewel fees in respeot of
the said fettersatent
Tim. ot above referred to
JITOF
A T
PCRULLY
PATENT OF TICS ENCIH ER O TOOLO FRU
Apparatus Pauser Bystem tor the production of synthetic
ammonia (original iaventione)
Concesgion of 5th Mas 1924
207.129
597-14
apparatus for the production of syntnetic
ammonia (improvement In the column of syntheeis)
Concession of 7tn  otober 14
233.775
637-217
ump for injeetion of v ter into t colurne for
absorption of cmnontr
Concession of re etote l
234.199
642-95
Electrolyser,  auser systen for the brouuetion of hydrogen
and oxygen (original inventions)
'oncession of 6th Movember 1923
198.936
365-246
Concession of 6th May 1924
207.128
597.123

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.93)
-21-
Electrolyser for the production of hydrogen and exygen
(latest igprovement)
Conoess1on of 25th November 1924
8.26
Process Fauser yetem, for the production of NITRoGEN
extracted es  by-product from the residual gases of the
oxidation of mnoni
Conceaslon of 17th n192
207.127
T04.17
Process for preperine  irtur or ir d emmonia
intended for the produe i
Concesaion of and July 1d
231.808
601.109
Process for the oxidation  moni md the produotion
of NITRIC AC ID
Conoession of 25th November 1924
234.814
648.225
Electrolyser Fauser ymtem for the prouction of hydrogen and
oxygen Cranted on 29th entember 1924 (12th year of Taisho) No.
61.272
ccepted on lat sugust 19ar (lath yenr of aisho)
Apparatus, Fauaer system for the roduction of synthetio ammonia
Granted 15th pril 192e (14tl yeer of Ta1sho) No.63787
A 5
the hand of
the re ident of the said
Monteostini Company duly anthorised to execute these presents
for and on behalf of the said Montccatini Company contained in
this snd the fourteen preceding pages each of whioh has been
initialled by me

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.87)
DaT5D 16 February 1029.
BE NONT TEN COY.
- nd -
5
of  re, 1926.
.. Bryden & illiams,
3/4, Clements Inn,
strand, .C.2.
10.2. 1929.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.89)
T H I S AQREkmENT made the l6 Sixthrebruary day
B E T  E I N Montecatini Societa Generale per L'Industria
Mineraria ed gricola of Vilan Italy ( hereinafter referred to as
the mMantecatini Company" ) of the one part and The Dai Nippen
Jinzohiryo Company Ltd. ef Jepan ( hereinefter referred to as the
"Dai Nippon Ce." ) of the ther rt s  t to an are
relating to the working and sleitotion of the seuser process in
the Jananeae cone dated the loth y of ren l92e made between the
same parties and heretnefte referred  ad the ly2o egreament
NO T HY  l
1. The axpresslens Jauser precess and patents, Japanese one,
capital suns, capacities, r, tuns nirogen, declared capacity
and simitar terms snd exprea n seil have the sume meaning in
this ent us in the ls rr.
2。
The Dai Nippon Soy ill y itselr or throug its Subsidiary
Companles inorease the ca,c.
cintinlant by a capeoity
of 4, coo ton nitrogen minimu . in the yenr leas (making a total
oapacity, ith the existin ,  ,o tons nitrogen p.a. ) and
will further ineroune the ei  capcctty or 1l, coo tons
nitrogen minirum p.a. by the  ecember lo31 ( muking a total
minimum deolered capeclty, ss nitrogen p.e.).
such increases may be wude either by the extension of the
existing plunt or by the erection or new plant or partly by ono moans
and partly by the other.
The Inirum cupacity of zo,Coo tons

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.91)
nitregen p.a. shall be inelusive of all plamts ereeted selaly
Dai Nippom Cey and its Subsidiary Cempantes.
3. The Montecatini Cey agrees end confirms that on these eenditi
the Dai Nippon Coy 1s entitled to the sole and exeusive Lieemee 
the Japanese one of the Fauser process and of the varieus patents
mentioned in the l926 agreement and hereby grants and confirms to the
Dai Nippon Coy the sole und exclusive right to manufaoture and mell
under the Fauser process and the said patents in the Japse Zome
and it agrees also to execute suoh legal or formal deeds and deeuments
as may be necessary to give cfrect to this clause.
4. The Capital sums annual royaities und minimup royalties montiond
in olause & of the First ohedule to the l926 agreoment shall be
rovised as follows:-
( . 
mount per ton
nitrogen p.a. capacity.
on tho first 20,000 tons nitr ..
of tho tosal cap-city
40 yon
On the next 10, 00o tons nitr.
(1.. from 0, Cou to , son)
40 yen
1es8 25
on eny further oxteusicns 
(1.e. from 30,0c tons upwaris )
40 yen
less 50
The total dop sity mstinmu nosve tnoludes cnly che
plants in cluuse   the ciy  the plcnt in reopt
of whion payment ts alae.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
(b) The annual royalties shall be as follewas-
Annual reyal
Preduction
5 of sale price caleulated
On from 0-5,000 tons nitrogen
as provided in l92e agreememt
i or sale price caloulated
On from 5,000-20,000 tons
es above.
2 or sale price caloulated as
0n from 20,000-30,000 tons
ebove less 25
f sule price caloulated
On from So, ot tons upwards
above less 507
(0)
) The minimum reyalty shall be 60 of the royalty which
would have been payable if the plsnts had preduced to their deelared
capacitios.
5. The capital sum releting to te increase of 4, Oco tons in question
in clause 2 of these presents slull be payable
 on the 3 th June 1929, ( the vomainuer) on the 1st December 1929.
The royalty in respect of this increase sh ll be reckoned from the
date on which the extension sh borin preduction; in any case,
and for ruil production net lat tn the Blst December 1929, even
if the installeticn were  .
The capital sun relatin  the new plant or extension of
1l.ouo tons montioned in Sisu  er hese presents shallibe
payable; t on the 3lst wecember iss, und the balanee at the time
whon the installation hal  perate, und in ay case not
later than the Blst Lecember L1.
The royuity in pespeoet sereof shalt be payable rrom the dato

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
on which the new plant or extension mhall begin produotioms im
any case, for full produstion from the 3lst December l931, evem is
the installation were not runnin.
The minimum royalty of the 60,: either in the case of the
inoreass of 4, cot tons, or in the case of the increase of 11, 000
tons, mey unly be applleu after it nas been ascertained that the
installutions relating tnereto are in full industial operating
oondition.
PhuViDED HiaT the ai Nippon Company shall make every
effort to complete the new plant or extension by the 3lst December
l93l, if circumstances beyone its control or unusual dirrioulties in
the constructicn of this plant or oxtension ocour, which prevent it
being completed by the 31st  ecember i931, the capital sums shall
likewise be peia on the nci  the installation of 1ll, ooo tone
minimur. at the times specifieu, nd the balance by the 3lst December
l931. The royelty, ho sver, she ue due only frem the date on
whion the nes plant or oxtension sheis ve reedy to operate, and in
any case and for full prouucti n, From the 3oth June 1932, but the
reyalty shall be paid for e pa  of lo years, that is to say, if,
for example, the instailati i. rull oporetion on the 3oth June
1932, the royalty shsil : ue 1 to the 30th June 1942.
he capitel (principal) suns rekating to all other
plant or oxtension exceeding a total capacity of 2o, hoo tons,
shall be palc witnin a time to oe agreed, the bases on which the
time or payment for the first Zo,  tons was established remaining
unaitereu. it is agreod, in lixe manner, as regards the royalties.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.91)
- 5 -
6.
The Dai Nipren Cempany shall have the full right or
granting sub- concessione in the Japanese cone, on the basis of 
present egreement end that of March l926, on the condition, of eou
that the principai suns and the royalties shall be applied entirely.
that is to say, 40 yen for eeon ton of nitrogeu of annual capecity
of the inatallrtlon, und royalty of  up to 2o, coo tons.
epplying t veduoti  the b frou o,coo tons upwardo.
It th refor realo creurly reed that in no case will
It be possitle to taxe ds  oasis, in oruer to detormine tho
reduotions, the installutions e  the at Nippon or by other
sub-concesslonaires, it bein nleratooc that in rder to enjoy
the roductions, each concessionsir rust, in all cases, pay the
principal suns and royaltles untir ly vithout reduction until the
completion of co, occ tons of nitre on per unnum.
1 the clausss  tuns cf the agreement of
arh l        t cnl 
modiried y the presen
It i herbay aere v a sippon company
shall be bound to effcet e   tas prinoip sume and the
minimum royalty on a totl c  straightway declared of 2oooo
tone per annun of nitropen n  aven if it dees not inetal a
plant of thi: upxoity.=
 whe i on o  ces not make the poyment du
under the te t  eo  the Dai Nippon Company shall
surrender tan msclosivity tt vent it renounces, putting
forward eny ules justifiou u unjustiried us regards the applioation
in Japan or all or part of the Jauser processes, declaring,on the
contery, that it will facilitate in every way the solution of any
dispute whioh might arrise on this cuestion.=

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.89)
- 8-
In case of the loss of the esolusivity, the Montesatims
Company shall at all time have the right to recever the capital
sums and royalties due by action in the Courts of law.
"suoslulery Companies" shall been those in which the Dai
Nippon Company hus the nugerity ubsolute ofr power under the Japen
Laws neceusary t rent any o ration aiso with the special
rity under the Javan uu for tne malgamution dissolution eto.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
Dated 28 april1933
Montecatini
Seciete Generale per L'industria
Mineraria ed Agricola
and
Tme ei Mippon Jinzohiryo
Company Limited
AGREMENT

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.94)
THIS
AOREBMENT
BETWEEN
MONTEC.TINI SOCIET. GENERLE PER L'DNDUBTRIA
MINkKIn  AGRICOL. (hereinarter roferred to as "Mentecatini)
of the one part und T I NIP ON JINZOHIRYO COMPANY LIMITED of
Japan (hereinafter reforred to us "Dai Nippon") of the other part
WHnis Th, Montecatini Company have made proposals ror the
settlement by compromise f the disagreement with Dai Nippon
in the intorpretatien f th: contrect between them dated the
Sixteenth Februury One theusund nin hundred and twenty-nine
(hereinafter referred te us te iszs greement) which proposals
Dai Nippon have acoepted
NOIT
as follows:-
1. (a) In this Agreement the expression "Dai Nippon's capaeity"
meens the cotal capacity   uits from time to time installod
by Del Nionon and by any suosicl y company or companies and does
not include the capacity of ny h-concessionnaire which 1s not
a subsidiary company.
(b) The oxpression "subsiciary cempany"has the meaning defened
by the last paragraph of .rticle 6 of the l929 greement.
(c)
 The rates of royalty nd minimum royalty set out in artiele
4 of ths l929 -greement apply only to Lai Nippon's capacity.
Similarly it is Dai Nippon's capacity which is referred to in
Article 6 of such greement s being straight away deolared at
Twenty thousand tons and upon which capacity such Agreement states
that Dai Nippon is bound to effect the payment of prinoipal sums
and minimum royalty even if a plant or plants of this tetal
mapucity ure not installed.
2.
(a)
Therefore as Dai Nippon has already paid to Montecatini

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.87)
- 2 -
capital royalty in rospect of a total capacity of twenty thomeena
tons or nitrogen per annum, no cupitel royalty will be payable by
Dei Nippon or any subsidisry company in rospect of the capacity
of any plant whtch may be hercafter inatelled either by Dai Nippon
or by uny sutsici sy com any untess   vip on's cupacity shell
  er un. seyond this
excoed tr enty o 
limit val Nippon shalt bo w a vo  the cupital royalty
provided oy rtiere
i ippen to  orteestini
3.
Troduction royolt
: : .
ne aetu productiod of
upon the nnual production 
Dui Nipuon a capucity ut  woml royalty qual
to sixty yer cent er     yle would be paya
s copociuy were actually
ble if the tooat annuai proe
twenty thousana tons ni crogen  m.rou tetin royelty on the
above scele hus been puid up 
Dai lipoon ussumes the feic
(a) Dal Ni, pon will install or cause to so lostali  lent using
the Feuser Procese of the capacity f tut loas shn ton thousand tone
nitrogen per annum which plant is t. ce in operasin condition not later
than the thirtioth June One thousand mine hundreu und thirty-four.
Such plant may ve installed un tlie terms spcciried in ub-clauses
(b) and (c) belo of this present ricje y  apenese Company hold-
ing a sub-concessien from at xippen wndor the First paragraph of
artiole 6 of tne luey greement and nos beins  "subsiuiery company"
as defined by tie lust paragraph f srid artiole 8.
(b ) (i) bel mippon will pey or csuse to  id ontecatini
(instead of the forty yen rguisite under the first araeraph of

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
said Artiele 6) eapital royalty of thirty yeh for each tem of
nitrogen of annual capaeity of the installation, that is thirty yen
en ten thousand tons, namely three hundred thousend yen.
This sum of three hundred thousand yen is to be paid to Monteeatini
not later than the Thirtieth September one thousand nine hundred and
thirty three and a guarantee for such payment to be given by a London
olearing house bank within the neriod below mentioned.
(11)
) In oase of any further increace of the plant over ten thousand
tons per annum capaoity, Dai Mippon will pay or cause to be paid to
Montecatini as capacity royaity thirty yen for each ton of anmual eape-
oity over ten thousand tons nitrogen up to the first twenty thousand
tons of nitrogen less twentyfive per cent on the next ten thousand toms
(1.e. twenty thousand to thirty thousand tons) and less fifty por cent
on all further inorease (1.e. from thirty thousand tons upwards. )
(o) (1) Da1 Nippon also will pay or cause to be paid to Montecatin1
Annual Produotion Royalt: of two and ε half per cent calculeted on the
sale price obtained by the sub-concessionnaire on the actual produetion.
in the manner provided under the heading "Annuel Royalties" in Clance
3 of the First Sohedule to the 1926 greement, but in any event this
royalty shall not be less than sixty per cent of the full annual pro-
duotion royalty which would be payeble if the total annual produetion
of the sub-concessionaire wns cotually ton thousand tons nitrogen per
annum.
(11) If the installed capacity exoeeds ten thousand tons a year
of nitrogen, production royalty will be also two and a half per cent
(ealoulated in the menne above) up to & produotion of twenty thousand ton
tons a year.
(ii1) In respect of productions over twenty thousand tons royalty will
be payable at two and a half per cent less twenty five per cent up to

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.94)
-4-
thirty thousand tons produetion and at the rate of twe am a mai
cent less fifty per cent for productions over thirty themmemd tomm
nitrogen. The above annual roye ty or royalties shall be payable
for ten years from t
irst Jul, ne thousand nine hundred and
thirty four.
5。
(e)
In reepeet o ill u -conetona other then thet contomplated
by Article 4 of this preemeat thin shall be suotituted for
forty yer as the ce i1 mol
to ontectini under the
First paragraph of rticle 6 of to 1929 greenent, the annual pro
duction royalty payable under  ele 6 remaining unohanged.
(0)
It is to be underrt od that i er the first and second
peragraphe of Article é the ls re ment nor the present Artiol
5 of this ereement heve .
Lie tion to tao royalties payable
by Dai ippon snd/or "sut: idi ry coun  ier" of Dai Nippon. which
royslties peyeble by Dai ipmon snd/or its "subaidiary companies"
are to be regulated 
Articles 1 this present Agreement.
(c)
All rovelties, however. ere syable end to be paid to
Montecatini through Dai  ippon nd not direotly by eny subsidiary
company or sub-concessionaire.
(a)
In this connection Dai ippon i: cirectly liable to Montecatini
also for these payments cs fully as it  trectly due from Dai Nippon.
6.
(a)
In case of full or par iol inexccution of the payments
stipulated in  is pre: ent enent then it shall be considered
that no greement between
onttini na ai Hinpon has been come
to on the proposale upon  len
goaea has been come to
and particularly es to
Pticle or thisgrecment and Hontecatini
will reacquire ite full
1 nd entire liberty of action in conneotion
with
the divergencies between the arties and similarly Dai Nippen
will reaccuire liberty of action.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.94)
- 5 -
(b)
) In order to operate Article 6 (a) it 1s hereby provided
that if Monteoatini ghall coneider that there shall have been any
suoh inexecution of thc  yments stipulated in this present
agreement Tontecatini shell  ive to Dai Nippon a notice by cable
specifyine the particular non-payment compleined of end requiring
Da1 Nippon to remody tne inoxecutlon by making payment within
fifteen days after the date of said notice by cable. Upon Dai
Nippon continuing in default after the expiration of the said
fifteen daye it shail o considered that this  greement has become
null end void to all effeot. If thi. agreement should become
null and void to all effects. it shall not be relied upon and
referred to by Dai Nippon a: shov ing  ontecatini's interpretations
of the disouted cleuses of the reemant of the ixteenth February
One thousand nine hundred n tvent nine.
(0)
But so long as the  cttipulsted in this Agreement are
made Monteoatini cons ir t ii on has the sole and exodusive
rights for the
Japrnere zon  er process and patents
(inoluding sll imoroveme d uri  poriod in reepect of
which annual royalty 1s nd by mkins such payemente Dai
ippon shall be considered  eving fully complied with all
obligetions.
7.(a)
In order to sefesua  confirm the exclusive righte of
Dei Mippon in the Japenese zone to the auser Trocess. patents end
Improvemente., ontecatini hereby ce o rant to Dai Nippon
whenever recuired such senerel procurat ien or generel procurations
"ut alter eso" in such form as sai Nippon shall require from time

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
to time in order: to enable Da1 Nippon to aet aseerding
Lew against all infringements in Japan of the Fauser preeess ama
to prevent the manufacture or sale in the Japanese some of any
produets manufaotured under the Fauser process.
(b) The whole f this last. however, so far as it deals with
products manufactured in other countries by the Fauser proeess. 1s
subject to there being in Japan a legislative provision which
empowers Dai Nippon to prevent importations of these produets and
also provided that Dai Niupon beses only on the above mentioned
provisions of the law the legal proceedings whioh in the evont it
decides to take to as ert its rights at its own risk and cest nd
on its own sole responsibility.
(0)
Montecatin1 will als grant to Dai Nippon whenever required
suoh general procuretion or general procuration: "ut alter ego"
in order that Dai Nippon may have full end evident authority in
the Japanese zone as to cll mettere concerning the Fauser prooess
and patents inoluding the granting of sub-licenses and sub-con-
cessions and registering these and ther doouments in the Japanese
Fatent Office.
(a)
The cuestion whether any other deeds or doouments, beyond
such procurationa, are neeessary in order to give effect to the
exclusive rights of Da1 Nipoon is to be the subject of further
conaultation between Monteoatini and Dal Nippon.
8. (8)
This Agreement has been drawn up and signed both in the
Frenoh and English versions to one sole effect.
(b)
The Bank guarantee referred to in Article 4 (b) above is to (A)
be forwarded to Montecatini within fifteen days after. the 25 Feb. 19ss
(0)
Within two menths after the last mentioned date provided the
necessary Bank guerantee has been given Monteeatini will dispatch
to Dai Nippon at Tokyo complete drawings and plans for the proposed

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.95)
-7 -
plant of ten thousand tons and a period of fifteen months frem the
arrivel of suoh drawings and plans in Japan shall be allowed for
the installation of the plant though ending efter Thirtieth June
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-four.
(a)
) Dai Nippon will make every effort to have the new inataliation
complete by the Thirtiet: June One thousand nine hundred and thirty-
four or within the above fifteen months. But if the works shall
be delayed by the non receipt f the complete drawings and plans as
above stipulated or by other circunstances beyond Dai Nippon's
control or if unexpected difficultie: s out the delivery of
maohinery or the construotion of thc inatallstion shall prevent
the new installation being compl ted by the time stipulated a
reasonable extension of tine shsll be allowed and annual royalty
shall only run from the dete on  ich the new installation shall
be ready to operate but in no case shall the date of commencement
of annual poyalty be later than the Thirticth eptember One
thousand nine hundred nd thirly four nd nnuel royelty shall be
paid for a period or ten year trom its commencement.
9.
The greement of te went ixti: reh one thousand nine
bundred and twenty six (bes ore eferrd to an the 1926 Agreement )
and the 1929 Agreement remein 1 foroe. co far es not modified
by the present Agreement. (4) Cocicil : ead 28th april 1933
Milano Apr11 28th 1937
"MONTTCATINI"
LOITA GLNLRLN PER L'IADUETRIA
MTHERARIALD AGRICOLA
IL PRESIDENTE

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.97)
AGRREMENT
Meimrieh Koppers Gesellschaft mit besehramkter
Garmany (hereinunder called Koppers) of the first part
Nippon Keikinzoku Kabushiki Kaisha, Tokyo, (hereimunder mi
ed Keikinzoku) of the second part,
have, regarding the execution of electrode coke plant
system (hereinunder called Koppers system), entered
following agrement:
Art. l. Capacities and Soales of Plants.
Koppers shall, upon receipt of the order from
deliver to the latter all drawings and specifie
required for the erection and operation of one
plant for the manufacture of 50,000 metric tons
trode coke per year, having as much common equir
possible with regard to the two different raw materim
to be dealt with and thst: first with the capaoity of
manufacturing by Koppers system 30. 000 metrie tono per
year of electrode pitch-coke with not more than 0.
volatile matter out of ca. 60,000 metrio tons of ft itoh
of 700 - 8o0 c softening point, and second with the
capacity of manufecturing 20,000 metric tons of pleotrode
petroloum-coke with not more than .5% volatile matter
out of ca. 40. c00 metric tons of residue from the mimeral
oil distillation and shall sive to Keikinzoku all assis-
tance necessary for the operation of the two plants.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Art. 2. Substanee of Koppers System.
The equipment and devices, as well as the operatie
of, the execution of which Koppers permits to Keiki
shall inolude:-
1) Transporting devices for the raw materials.
2) Storage bunkers.
3) Plant for preparing the intermediate products
(hard-pitoh eto.) with condensation devioes for
volatile matter and recovery of the. products de
therefrom.
4) Rleotrode coke oven batteries with charging dev
and oven machinery.
5) Blectorde coke - cooling, - transporting, - so
ing, and loading devices.
6) Condensation plant for volatile matter, deriving 
the carbonization of electrode coke, with all the
apparatus for recovery of the by-products.
7) Coke gas producer plent for generation of hesting
for heating-up of the ovens and for operating plente
The heating gas is made of ordinary coke from bit
coal distillation, of small size and with a high
peroentage of breeze.
Art. 3. xtent of the incidental Deliveries by Koppers to
Keikinzoku.
Koppers shall deliver to Keikinzoku, besides the drawings
and specifications required for erection of the plents
in accordance with the provisions of the preseding
artioles, the undermentioned drawings and spesifiemst

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
in escordance with Keikinsoka's schedule of ereetiem
Keikinsoku to obtain in Japan the supply of all materiale
required for the erection of the plants specified in this
agreement and aohieve the construction in a period as short
as possible and shall give to Keikinzoku the instruetiom for
the ereetion and as much explanation as possible to Keikir
questions.
1) Drawings end specification of all foundations and ortimary
building work with statements about the load, meeording
to whieh local contractors, commissioned by Keikimmoku
with the execution, can design the final drawings, and
execute the work according to the ground conditions at the
building site, and according to the presoriptions of the
Looal Governments.
2) Drawings and specifications, according to which Keikimmok
can order the greatest part of the iron and steel parts
required.
3) Specifications only for a part of the standardized maehinory.
apparatus, instruments, valves, cooks, etc.
4) of all these Drewings Koppers shall hand over to Keikinmoku
at least four copies with wordings translated into English.
Of all the Specifications are to be handed one copy in
German and four copies in nglish.
5) In case Koppers is unable to put at the disposal of Kei
kinzoku the drawings and specifications of a certain pam
of special deliveries that the latter requires, Koppers
shall notify the fact and hand to Japanese makers the
drawings so as to enable Keikinzoku to obtain the supply
of them.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
4. Delivery Gommition.
of all the drewings and specifications that ey
deliver to Keikinzoku in accordance with the stipulatt
in the preceding three articles, the drawings emd speeifi-
cations relative to the equipments of the piteh-soke plamt
with the annual capacity of production of 30,000 metri
tons shall be delivered to Keikinzoku not later than eight
months after the conolusion of the present agreement, and
those relative to the petroleum-coke plant tith the ammual
capaeity of production of 20,C00 metric tons, not later
than twelve months after the conclusion of the present
greement, but in case the delivery of the drawings and
speoirioations relative to the equipment for produeing
petroleum-coke is delayed due to possible delay in the test-
ing of the sample of residue from mineral oil distillatiom
that Keikinzoku submitted to Koppers, the time of the
delivery shall be agreed upon later on.
In case, moreover, the residue submitted by Keikinzokm for
test proved either unsuitable or uneconomical for mamufastua
ing electrode coke, the plan may be changed from the potrolew
coke to pitoh-coke plant by consultation between the parties
ooncorned.
Art. 5. Terms of Payment.
Keikinzoku shall pay to Koppers for designing, drawiag ame
specifications as well as for execution regarding Koppers
System specified in this agreement
RM 775.000.-
(Free-German-Reiohamark-Sevenhundredseventyftyethousamd-only)

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5-
with an addition for deferred payment of total
125.000.-
(Free-German-Reiohamark-Onehundredtwentyrivethousand-omly)
according to the following instalments:
1) Rm 137, 500.- Immediately after taking effeet of the
present agreement.
2) " 137.500.- Upon delivery of drewings eto. required
for installing equipments for produeing
pitch-coke 30,000 metric tons per year.
3) " 62, 500,- At the end of eaeh year for ten conseou-
tive years, beginning wi th the day of
starting of the plant. In any ease,
however, the payment shall begin not
later than two and half years after the
first payment.
The transfor-permits for the irrevocable annual instalment-
payments must immutably be arranged ample time ahead and in
such a way that the annual transfers can take place on or
on about the fixed dates, without depending on any reserve
tions whatever, as f.i. on questions which could possibly
arise out of the operation of the plant. However, short
delays of payments due to possible delay in obtaining the
Government's permission shall be taken as foree majeure.
In case Keikinzoku executed only the equipment of the plant
for manufaoturing 30,000 metric tons of pitoh-eoke per year
for the reason stated in the last sentence of the first

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
Paragraph and in the second paragreph of the preeskima
artiole, Keikinsoku shall, taking it as (1) plant im the
estimate submitted by Koppers, pay to Koppers  46,876.
per year for ten consecutive years beginning with the day
of starting of the plants. Upon starting the operatiom of
the plant for manufacturing petroleum-coke or eventually
pitch-coke wi th a capacity of 20,00o me tric tons per yeer.
Keikinzoku shall pay to Koppers RM 15, 625.- (Differenee bet
ween R 62,500.- and R 46,375.-) per year for ten conseetive
years beginning with the day of starting of this plant.
Art. 6. Obligations of Keikinzoku.
1) Keikinzoku shall not transfer without Koppers' approval
to any third party the execution right of the Koppers systm
which he has acquired in accordance wi th the present agroe-
mont.
2) Keikinzoku shall deal with the drawings and all partiou-
lars of the plant, coming to his knowledge by the oreetion
and operation of the plant in such a way that no misuse ean
be made of them to the disadvantage of Koppers.
3) Keikinzoku shall use the drawings, etc. only for the
plants and to the extent provided for by this egreement.
4) Keikinzoku shall not give any information to a third
party, or make any publication about the plants or details
of it unless and until Koppers has given written consent
there to.
Art. 7. Enlargement and Further Construotion of plant.
Keikinzoku shall conclude with Koppers a new agreement
regarding licence in case the plant shall be enlarged,

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
or any further plant shall be built assording to 
system even when the same drawings could be used.
Art. 8. Patents granted.
Even when Koppers has been granted the patent right whiek is
now under application, he shall grant to Keikinzoku the ime-
lienable right to use the execution right to the extent provid-
ed for in the present agreement as long as the patent right
remains valid without any further charges.
Art. 9. Supervising Personal.
Koppers shall put at the disposal of Keikinzoku a staff of
skilled engineers and foremen for supervision and instruetion
of the ereotion, of the starting, and of the first time of
operation of the plant for payment of the travelling cost and
of daily fees eto. which shall be agreed upon lator on.
Art. l0. Time of Taking Efreot.
The present agreement shall take effect when Keikinzoku has
not only obtained the acknowledgement of the Japanese Goverm-
ment on the payments provided for in Art. 5. but also the
Japanese Government has formally granted the permission for
the purohase of the foreign exohange of the first payment of
RM 137, 500.- and has generelly consented to the further pay-
ments according to this agreement.

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
AGREEMENT
FOR
LURGI SULPHURIC ACID CONTACT PLANT
OF LOO TONS PER DAY CAPACITY AND
EACH ONE SET OF HOT AND COLD COTTRELL

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
AGREEMENT
Agreement made this 15th day of June 1939, in the City or
Tokyo, by and between the Lurgi Gesellsohaft fuer Chemie und
Huetten wesen m.b.H., Frankfurt a/M. (hereinafter called "Lurgi")
of the one part, and Nippon kogyo K.K., Tokyo (hereinafter ealled
"Nippon Kogyo") of the other part in regard to one lo0 tons
Monohydrate per day Lurgi Contact Plant to be ereoted at Hitach1
Kozan Jimusho.
Wherees, this agreement shall be signed by and between Dr.
C.Krayer, Representative of Lurgi, and Nippon Kogyo in Tokyo and
afterwards formally approved by Lurgi in Frankfurt a/M., it is
mutually agreed by and between the parties hereto as follows:-
1) Supply:=
Lurg1 grants to Nippon Kogyo the licence of the Lurgi Contact
Process in connection with the installation of a sulphurie acid plant
which is to be erected in accordance with the drawings of Lurgi
for a capacity of lo0 tons Monohydrate per 24 hours and which is
to be installed at the works of Hitachi.
Lurgi shall supply:-
3 complete sets of drawings, specifications and instructions,
further:
the vanadium contact mass according to the capacity of the pland
further:
1 hot and 1 cold Cottrell, both as per annexed specification.
The drewings shall be so detailed as to enable Nippon Kogyo
to manufacture, erect and operate the said plant completely in
Japan by thenselves. All drawings shall be in Englioh language.
In particular the delivery comprises:-

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
a) ell drewings fer the special epperatus, es cestect
further a list 8f all appurtenences, such as pipe rem
acid mixing tank, preheaters for putting the plant ist
meesuring instruments, etc.
b) a generel arrangement drawing showing the complete assembly of
the plant, further all data as regards buildings and foumdet
o) written specifications for the blowers, pumps and meesuring
instruments,
d) detailed specifications for the working method of the Lurgi
Contact Process,
•) ell information concerning the erection of the Cottrells by
means of brickwork drawings, specifications.
However, Lurgi does not submit:-
shop drawings of machines and apparatus, such as blowers, pumps,
eto., also detailldrawings for the buildings wherein the plant
shall be erected.
2) Time of Delivery:-
All drawings, specifications and instructions mentioned under
1 a b c d e), shall be delivered within 4-6 weeks from Frankfurt
from the date of this cmntrect. The delivery of the contact mass
can be effected within 3 months according to requirement, as soon
as the erection work has advanced so far that the mass is required.
It will be best to fix an exact date later on.
The hot and cold Cottrell delivery of Lurgi shall be made
within 5-6 months after signature of this contract.
3) Guaranty:-
a)
For the onntact plant with a capacity of loo tons monohydrate
per 24 hours, Lurgi guarantees a conversion of So, into S0, of
97% with an allowance or 1%. It is assumed that fyrite or of
38% sulphur contents, as shown by the analysis given to Lurgi on
the 17th of June l937, is used as raw material and that the roester
gas shall contain about 6 to 7% S0. With So, gas of about 5 to
6% an allowance of 0,5 to 1% lower conversion²efficienoy shell be
accepted.
It is underatood that the plant is erected according to
Lurgi's drawings and that all machinery, such as pumps, blowers,
etc. will correspond to the given speciriontions and that the
plant is operated in accordance with the instrustions to be
supplied by Lurgi. After setting the plant to work, the proof of
the guaranty is to be established by an uninterrupted and
continuous operation of one week to take place in the presence of
Lurgi's expert engineers.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
B)
If this acceptance test has proved that th
conversion and efriciency is reached, Lurgi's
sidered as fullrilled. But should the starting-up of
due to ciroumstances over which Lurgi has no cemtrol,
later than 16 months after the delivery of the drawing
under 1 a), then the plant shall be considered as deliv
acoepted.
c)
Should the guaranteed performance not be attained when o
ing out the acceptance test, then Lurgi undertakes to supply
of charge, CIF Yokohama, another new quantity of the necesmm
vanadium contact mass, whereas the old mass shall be returned to
Lurgi ex Hitachi's works free of charge.
a)
The life of Lurgi's contact mass will be l0 years at least
under consideration that the plant is operated according to Lurgi'
instructions and specifications and that the plant is run accord-
ing to the specified capecity) Nohon Kogyo shall keep running
records showing the performance of the plent.
4)
Price:-
For the total supply, enumerated under 1), viz. contact mass,
delivered CIF yokohama, complete drawings, hot and cold Cottroll
equipments, the lump-sum amounts to ¥338.000.--.
5) Terms of Payment:-
The following payments shall be made by Nippon Kogyo to Lurg1
respectively Dr. C. Krayer:-
(1) 50% with order
(2)
20% against delivery of the drawings, specifications and
instructions for the contact plant, however, not later
then 6 months after the firgt payment,
(3)
20% against delivery of the drawings and instructions for
the hot end cold Cottrell plants, however, also not later
than 6 months after the first initial payment,
(4)
l0% after the proof of the guaranty has been established,
but not later than 8 months after the second respectively
third payment.
Nippon Kogyo agreem to make the payments as follows:-
(1) 50% for the first payment - ¥ 169.000,-- in f ster1. /
= £ 9858.6.8
(2) 20% for the second rayment= ￥ 67,600.-- f ster1.
£ 3943.6.8
(3) 20% for the third payment = ¥ 67.600.--
(4) 10% for the fourth payment= ¥ 33.800,--

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
The above mentioned £-Sterling payments are to be semi
by Nippen Kogyo by cable to Raiohsbankdirektorium Berlin for
Reichsbankhauptstelle Frankfurt a/M. for account for Metall-
gesellschaft A.G. Frankfurt a/M. for Lurgi Gesellscheft fuer Chemio
und Huettenwesen m.b.H., whilst the third and fourth paymont will
be remitted by Nippon Kogyo in Yen to Lurgi's representative Dr.
C. Krayer, Tokyo.
6)
Nippon Kogyo will keep the drewings and technioal details
strictly confidential and use same exclusively for the erection of
this contracted plant with a capacity of loo tons contact acid per
day. In cose, Nippon Kogyo have the intention to put up further
contact plants of Lurgi's system, new negotiations regarding the
licencepayment shall be entered into. As an equivalent for this
obligation, Lurgi is prepared to notify Nippon Kogyo, free of
charge, for a period of 1o years of novelties and alterations that
may be developed by Lurgi or acquired fr m third parties, inasmuch as
Lurgi themselves shall not incur any charges for such inventions
and novelties.
7) Personal for erection and putting into operation:-
a)
Nippon Koggo shall pay for the erection and putting into
operation of the contact plant proper the sum of & 15.o00,--
to Lurgi, Tokyo Office, for which amount Lurgi shall put at
Nippon Kogyo's disposal for this purpose:-
1. 1 expert engineer for 4 weeks, including travelling expenses
from Germany to Japan, and retum,
salary and maintenance, such as
board and lodging
2. 1 expert contact erector for 4 weeks, including travelling
expenses from Germany to Japan
and return, salery and maintenance
such as board and lodging.
b)
For the erection and putting into operation of the Cottrell

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.98)
plent, Mippon Kegye shall pay the sum of Y G,O00,-.
amouat Lurg1 shall put at Wippon Kogyo's disposel:
1 expert Cottrell erector for 4 weeks, including travellins
return, salery end m
such as boerd and lo
for each day of longer stay than 4 weeks, Nippon Kogyo shallppeze
1.) for the services of the engineer ¥ 50,-- per calender day
2.) for the serfices of each erector Y 40,-- per calender day
under consideretion of 8 working hours per day; overhours to be
paid with additional 50% of the ordinary fees.
The payment of these fees shall be handled as follows:- Nippon
Kogyo will pay to Lurgi's Representative Dr. C. Krayer half of the
above mentioned lump-sums when calling for the engineer or erectors.
The second half shall be paid after the 4 weeks stay of the
engineer or erectors shall be paid slways at the end of each 4 weoks
of longer stay at the Hitac i's works.
8)
If Nippon Kogyo does not have recourse to the service of
Lurgi's expert personal, Lurgi shall not be bound to the guarnaty
stipulated above, and the article 3) shall become null and boid.
9)
In case of any dispute it shall be settled by a board of
arbitrators consisting of three members. Both, Nippon Kogyo and
Lurgi, shell appoint one arbitrator each and the two arbitrators
so chosen shall appoint a third arbitrator. Should the aforeseid
arbitrators fail to agree in the choice of a third arbitrator
then the third arbitrator shall be appointed by the American
Chemical Society.
Tokyo, July 7th 1937
CK/F

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.93)
Agroumant
、
Heinriah Koppers Gosellschaft mit besehreenkter Haftung,
Kesen, Germany (hereinefter called Koppere) Nippen Keillnsel
Kabuzhiki Kaisya, Tokio, Japen (hereinafter called Keikinsoka),
and Nippon Pitah-Coko Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisya, Tokio, Japan
(hereinafter called Pitch-Coke Kogyo) have entered inte the
following Agreepent on the trensference from Keikinzekm to
Pitah-Coke Kogyo of the ri hts and obligations, stipulated
by the Agreement concerning the exocution of the Koppers
system on the electrode coko  lant, which was coneluded
between Koppers and Ke1kinsoin on the 12th Cetober, 1940,
and became effedtive on the same day (horeinafter called
original Agreemont), and also on the right of execution of
the aforesaid Koppere systen on the Pitch-Coke plant of
Piteh-Cok Kogyo to be extended in the future:
Art. 1. Koppera, Keikinznku and Pitch-Coko Kogyo have
reached perfeet undmrstandiny and agreoment that the electrode
potroloum-eolto to be manufacturou at the second plant, pre-
vided for in Artiole 1 or the ori inal Agreoment, shall be
changed to electrode pitch-coke, ad, further, the capaeity
of the firet plant and trat of the second plant shall each
be changed to 25,000 motric tons per year, the combined
anmual manufacturing capacity of electrode pitch-coke of
both plante being 50,000 metric tons: that the provisions

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.98)
of the criginal Agreemont in this respeet ahall remain
unehanged: and that the name of the party of the seeand
part in the original Agreement shall be changed from Kei-
kinzoku to Pitch-Coke Kogyo, who shall oarry out the obli-
gations of the Agreement.
Art. 2. Inasmuch as the first and second instalments,
provided for in Article 5 of the original Agreement, have
already been paid to Koppers by Keikinzoku, there is no
necessity for Pitch-Coke Kogyo to pay them to Koppers, but
Pitch-Coke Kogyo shall carry out the terms of payment can-
cerning the third and subsequent instalments, or, in other
wards, Piteh-Coke Kogyo shall pay direct to Koppers Rm 62.500
at each year-end for ten years from the day of starting the
operation of the plant for the manufacture of 50,0o00 metrie
tons per year of electrode pitch-coke. In any case, heev,
the payment shall begin not later than two and half years
after the first payment. The licence fee provided for in
the present article as well as in Articles 3 and 4 of this
Agreement shall be paid to Koppers without any reduction in
Free German Reiahsmarik and the payment shall be made in
remittance to Berlin.
Art. 3. In return for the change, specified in Artielo
1 of the present Agreement, Koppers shall allow Keikinzolm
to execute the Koppers system on a plant for the manufaeture
of 20,000 metric tons per year of electrode petroleum-eoke.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
Except for those relative to the payment of the lieenes fee,
all the conditions to be stipulated between Keppers and Mmi-
kinzolou with regerd to the above-mantiened plant mhall be
based on the criginal Agreoment. In this ease, thare is no
necessity for the paymont of the first and second instalmonts
providod for in Article 5 of the original Agreement, but
Keikinzoku shall carry out the terms of paymant concerning
the thire and enbsequent instalments, or, in other words,
Keikinzolu shal? pay to Loppers Rk 15,600 at eaeh year-and
for ten years from the day of starting the operation of the
plant for the manufacture of 20,000 metric tone per yeer of
electrode petroleum-ccke referred to. in any case, hewever,
the payment shall be Ln not later than two and half years
after the conelusion of this Agreement.
Art. 4. In croctin, and exeout ing the Koppers system
on, a plant with the capacity of manufacturing 25,000 motrle
tans per year of electrode pitoh-coke, in addition to the
combined plant with the capacity of manufucturing 50,000
metrie tons per year of electrode pitch-coke provided for
in Article 2 of the prosent gree ent, Pitch-Coke Kogyo
mhall be assigned direct fron Koppers the right of exeeution
of the Koppers system on the dd icm plant.
Emeopt for those relative to the payment of the licenee
fee, all the conditions to be stipulated with regard to the
above-mentioned plant ahall be based on the original Agreement.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.96)
As the licanse feo for the maid additional 25,000
metric tams plent, Pitob-Colm Kogye shall pay direet to
Koppers RN 24,900 at each year-and for ten years fron the
day of starting the operation of the plant, but ahall not
becoalled upon to pay the firat and second instalmants pro-
vided for in Article 5 of the criginal Agreement. In any
case the payment sha?l begin not later than two and half
years after the conclusion of this Agreement.
Art. 5. Even in case the plant for the mamufacture of
eloctrode petroleum-coke assigned to Keikinzokm and the
plant for the manufecture of electrode pitch-coke assigned
to Pitch-Coke Kogyo by virtue of the present Agreement are
erected and the Koppers system executed thereon in any part
of the ternitories newly annexed to the Japanese Empire or
those of Itm wotectcretes, or any part of China Proper,
Manchukuo, French Indo-China, Malaya, Sumatra, Bornee, Jaya,
Celebes and the Philinnine Islands, not to mention the
Japanese Empire itself, Koppore shall make no objeetien
thereto.
Art. 6. Koppers shall give Pitch-Coke Kogyo an under
standing beforehand that, in case Pitch-Coke Kogyo or Kei-
kinsoku extend their oppers system electrode piteh-eoke
manufacturing plant in the future, Koppers shall accept a
licence fee for the extended and additicnal equipment at
a rate not higher than RM 9 per meotric ton of the anmual

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.94)
maufactaving capacity of sueh equipment, payable in yemrly
instalments for ten years. The understanding proviéed fowr
in the preceding Artiele shell also apply to the emse of
thio Artiele.
Art. 7. Before accepting any crder for the eatablimh-
mont of a piteh-coke plant or of a petroleum-eoke plant in
any part of the torritcries specified in Artiele 5 of the
present Agreement, Konpers shall bo bound to inform Pitah-
Cole Kogyo and Kelkinzola.
Art. 8. The prosent A reement hall take effeet only
When Koppers, Keilinzoku and Pitch-coke Kogyo have respeo-
tively afrixed their sienatures therete.
In view of tho current world situation, the signing
of the present Asreement s all be effected, and the signm-
tures of the contractins parties confirmed, by the mest
suitable and promtest mens available.
This Agreement shell Le made in three crigimal copies,
each cantractiny partoldi he criginal copy togother
with one coy of te  i i reement.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.90)
Dato of signature:
Heimrieh Koppers G.m.b.H., Esssm.
Date of signature:
Nippon Keikinzoku Kabusikd Kaisya,
Tokio
Date of sigatire
ipp on I itcn-Coke Logyo Eabusiki Maisya.
Toldo

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.94)
zwischen
Sumitomo Kinzokukoogye Kabushiki Kaisha (Sumitome Metallimau-
strie A.-G.) in Konohanaku Osaka, Jepan,
im folgendón kurz "Sugitemo" genannt,
einerseits
und
Allgemeine Elektrioitats-Ceselleehaft, Berlin Nw 7,
Felten & Guilleaume Carlswerk Aktiengesellschaft, Koln-Mulheim,
Siemens & Halske Aktiengesellsohaft, Berlin-Siemensstadt,
im folgenden zusammen "Deutsohe Gruppe" genannt,
andererseits.
1
Sumitomo erklart, über die folgenden Schutzrechte betref-
fend "sendust" allein verfugungsbereohtigt zu sein:
Deuteohland Patentanmeldung K 128 936 vI/18d, 2/10
vom 6. rebruar 1933
Frankreich
Patont Nr. 749 713
Schweis
n
n
170 146 und Zusatspatent r.185 8
Spanien
11
129 606
Holland
10
n
40 063
Belgien
19
1"
395 522
GroBbritannion
n
n
414 657 und zusatzpatent r.445 614
Brasilien
Unter "sendust" werden im folgenden die nach den vorge-
nannten Schutsrechten hergestellten magnetischen Teile, und
zwar sowohl gepreßte als sueh gegossene Teile und lose verwen-
detes Pulver, verstanden.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Die vorgenannten Schutzreehte lauten auf den Namen der
Kinsoku Zairyo Kenkyusho, Sendai in Japan, und bilden mit Aus-
nabme der_britischen und brasilianischen Schutsrechte die
"yertragssohutzrechte".
Weitere Schutmechte betr. Sendust bestehen nur noch in
Japan, den Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika, Kanade, Australion,
Mandsohukuo, sie bilden jedoch nicht Gegenstand dieses vert-
ragos.
Sumitomo erklart ferner, Sendust bereits selbst in
gröBeren Mengen hergestellt zu haben und imstande su sein,
Erfahrungen und Fabrikationsanweisungen fur die Herstellung
von Sondust vollständig und ohne Behinderung duroh Japanisehe
Behörden der Deutschen Gruppe bekanntgeben zu können.
2.
Sumitomoggewährt der Deutsohen Gruppe die aussehlieBliehe
Lizenz an den vertragaschutzrechten gemaB 1 für beliebige
anwendungsgebiete von Sendust. Die Deutsche Gruppe ist bereah-
tigt, Unterlizenzen an beliebige Firmen in Europa su vergeben.
Die ausschlieBliche Lizenz schlieBt das Reeht ein, Sendust
oder die mit ihm versehenen Spulen oder beliebigen aneren
Apparate oder deren Teile in beliebige Lander der welt mit
Ausnahme der in 1 Abs. 4 genannten Länder zu liefern.
Die britischen und brasilianischen Patente gemäB 1
werden vorlaufig aus der Lizenz ausgenommen, Sumitome ist

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
jedosh bereit, nach Beedigung des gegenwärtigen eurephtsehen
krieges mit der Beutschen Gruppe über die vergebung aasashli-
eBlieher Lisensen an den britischen Patenten und an dem brasi-
lianischen Patent an die Deutsche Gruppe m verhandeln,
3。
Sumitomo wird ihrer Verfügung unterliegende verbesserun-
gen oder Weiterentwicklungen von Sendust einsohlieBlieh der
yerfahren zu seiner Herstellung und einschließlieh seimer
Anwendungen und darauf etwa angemeldete Sohutsreehte umversüglieh
der Deutsohen Gruppe bekanntgeben. An solohen sohutsreehten in
allen Ländern mit Ausnahme der in 1 Abs. 4 genannten Länder und
vorläufig auoh GroBritannien und Brasilien raumt Sumitome der
Deutschen Gruppe ebenfalls die ausschlieBliche Lisons ein, ohme
daB sich die gemäB 5 zu zahlende Lizenzgebühr erhöht.
4
Sumitomo wird die Doutsche Gruppe durch obersendung aus-
führlicher Beschreibungen des oder der Verfahren sur Herstellung
von Sendust instandsetzen, selbat in laufender Fabrikation Son-
dust herzustellen.
Auf wunsoh der Dousohen Gruppe wird Sumitomo einem ihrer
in der Herstellung von Sendust erfahrenen Fachingenieure sur
Einarbeitung mindestens einer Werkstätte der Deutsehen Gruppe
nach Deutschland schioken, wobei die Deutsohe Gruppe die Kosten
der Reise und Aufenthaltsspesen dieses Ingenieurs übernehmen
wird.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.97)
-4
5.
Die Firmen der Deutschen Gruppe zahlen m Sumiteme für jedem
unter Benutsung eines oder auoh mehmerer der in 1 genannten
vertragsschutzrechte von ihnen oder von Unterlisenmehmern der
Deutschen Gruppe hergestellten und an Kunden gelieferten magmeti-
sohen Teil eine laufende Lizenzgebühr in Prozonten ds Vörkäuf-
preises der magnetisehen Teile, und zwar in Höhe von 8& (aeht
Prozent) für gepresste teile und lo% (zehn Prozent) für gegesseme
Teile und lose verwendetes Pulver.
Unter Verkaufspreis ist der Nettofakturenpreis absüglioh
Fracht, verpackung und dergl. zu verstehen.
Magnetisohe reile werden von der Deutsohen Gruppe in der
Regel nioht für sich, sondern stets in Spulen, Apparate oder de-
ren Teile eingebeut, geliefert. Falls ein wirklioher verkaufs-
preis der magnetischen Teile nicht besteht, wie z.b, bei Kernem
für Pupinspulen, wird der Lizenzgebührenbereehnung deshalb sur
rleichterung der Abrechnung bei gepressten Teilen eine Lisens-
gebühr in Höhe von RM 0,58 je kg gelieferte Teile zugrunde go-
legt. Bei gegossenen Teilen und lose verwendetem Pulver ist go-
gebenenfalls auf der B asis der Lizenzgebühr von lo% entspreehend
zu verfahren.
.Die Deutsche Gruppe wird Sumitomo am Anfang eines joden Kalend
jahres wahrend der Dauer des deutsehen vertragssohutzreehtes
den Betrag von RM 5, Oo0.- (Funftausend Reichsmark) als Mindostli-
zonzgebuhr zugleich fur sich und ihre eventuellen Unterlimonmehmer

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.95)
.. 5.
sahlen, weleher Betrag bei der  Ende eines Xalemderja
erstattenden Abrechmung über die jeweils verangegangeme Male
Jahr im ersten Vierteljahr des darauffolgendem Jahres durehf
 sich bemühen, die jeweils fälligen Zahlungen Sumiteme
der zwei nachsten Monate zukommen zu lassen, Falls eime transteri
erung der fälligen Zahlungen nach Japan zeitweilig nieht möglieh
sein sollte, hat die Deutsohe Gruppe ihre Lisenssahlungspflieht
dadurch erfüllt, dass der betreffende Betrag bei einer deutsehen
Devisenbank zu Gunsten von Sumitomo eingezahlt wird.
Die Deutsehe Gruppe wird über die lizenzpflichtigen Gesehärte
besondere Bücher führen, und Sumitomo ist berechtigt, auf ihme
igenen Kosten diese Lizenzbücher und sonstigen Abreehngemter
gen durch einen beiderseits genehmen Wirt schaftsprkfer machprhfe
zu lassen.
Falls die Deutsohe Gruppe Unterlizenzen vergibt, wird sie
ihren Unterlizensnehmer alle sioh aus diesem Paragraphen md
sonstigen Bestimmungendieses vertrages orgebenden verpflieh-
tungen auferlegen.
6.
Die Deutsche Gruppe übernimmt die Bearbeitung  Auf-
rechterhaltung der vertragssohutzreohte gemäss 1 für ihre
langstmögliche Laufdauer, Die Aufrechterhaltungskosten werken
ven den von der Deutschen Gruppe su zahlegden Lizenzgebuhren abge-
zogen.

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
Die Deutsché Gruppe wird Sumiteme béi der Verteidi
vertragssohutzrechte unteratütsen und ward die Vertre
chte weder selbst angreifen nogh Dritte.zu einem Angrief
lassen oder sie dabei unterstütsen.
7.
Der Vertrag tritt in Kraft, sobald er unterseiemet
deutsche Reichspatent auf Grund der Patentanmeldung K 128 936
endgültig erteilt werden ist. sollte das deutsche Reiehspatent
nieht oder nur mit einer wesentlioh engeren Fassung als dor
bekanntgemaohten erteilt werden, so kann sieh dib. Deutsehe
Gruppe binnen zwei Monaten nach Erhalt der entspreo mden Mit-
teilung von Sumitomo entsohlieBen, ob sie den Vertrag denneeh
in raft setzen will, wobei sich die jährliche Mindestlisensgebl
gemaB 5 bei Fortfall des deutaohen Patentes auf RM 2ooo.- (swei-
tausend Reiohsmark) erniedrigt.
sollten sich während der Dauer des vertrages wesentliehe
Anderungen im Wert der Vertragsschutzreoßte ergeben, se werdem
sich Sumitomo und die Deutsche Gruppe über eine angemessene An-
passung der Lizenzbedingungen an solche Anderungen verständigen.
Nach seinem Inkrafttreten dauert der vertrag mit oültigkeit
für jedes der in 1 genannten Lander solange, bis das oder die
in diesem Land bestehenden Vertragsschutgrechte erloschen sind.
Sollten über diesen zeitpunkt hinaus jeweils nooh Sohutsreehte
gemaB 3 betehen, so serden sich Sumitomo und die Doutsche
Gruppe rechtzeitig vorher über die Bedingungen fur eine Fort-
setzung des vertrages verständigen.
