894.72 Japan, Telegraph. Concessions. Construction. Equipment., February 16, 1942 (File 1333)
ID: 894.72-1333   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.72-japan-telegraph-concessions
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.91)
COORDINATOR OF INFORMATION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
February 16, 1942.

Mr. James Dunn,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Dunn:

We are supplying all members of the Committee on War Information with the attached memorandum, so that the problem of the Japanese broadcasts will be fully understood.

I hope some action will be taken. We are very much concerned over the large amount of gratuitous publicity being given this enemy propaganda weapon.

Sincerely yours,

Irving Palaum
Chief, News Division
Foreign Information Service

811.42990
X2
894.72/2-1642
CIC
814.72/2-1642
Received
Department of State
894.72/2-1642
Department of
Japanese
894.72/2-1642

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
February 16, 1942.

MEMORANDUM

To: Mr. Robert Sherwood
From: Irving Pflaum
Subject: Censorship of Japanese prisoner broadcasts.

This is our third or fourth attempt to bring about a solution of the problem. We fully realize our effort may be making this office somewhat unpopular. Some solution of the problem, however, is far more important than the popularity of this office.

1. It is accepted that the American press should not give aid or comfort to the enemy's war effort. It is also accepted that we must not underestimate again the enemy's ability to wage war. What does not seem to be sufficiently accepted is that psychological warfare is as real as physical and economic warfare--and that the enemy can effectively wage psychological warfare as well as physical and economic warfare.

2. We submit that gratuitous advertisement in U. S. newspapers of the Tokio prisoner broadcasts gives aid and comfort to the enemy. We would not let an ill-informed junk dealer, who hadn't heard we were at war, give scrap iron to the Japanese. But we are letting newspapers which don't understand the situation, give new listeners to the Japanese radio. (We are in a position to prove that the Tokio prisoner broadcasts have received more publicity in the news columns of the American press than any other radio program, foreign or domestic.)

3. Our understanding of Mr. Price's problem is that he questions his authority to censor references by American news agencies and newspapers to the prisoner broadcasts. We respectfully suggest that Mr. Price consider himself authorized, in view of the foregoing, to censor material of aid to the enemy in the psychological as well as the physical and economic fields of warfare.

4. We submit that publicity for Japanese broadcasts to America is aid to the enemy's psychological war. It is not important whether or not the particular broadcast

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

are effective in America. It may be true that few people listen to them or believe them. If we continue to fight this war by assuming that the enemy is ineffective and weak in the field of psychological warfare, we will be repeating the mistake that led to Pearl Harbor. We submit that we must assume the exact opposite. It follows, therefore, that to increase the number of listeners to enemy broadcasts is to give him aid and comfort and to open the door for effective enemy propaganda and psychological warfare, such as the creation of rumors, dissension, and division within the United Nations.

We respectfully suggest that the matter can be handled in this way:

1. Mr. Price can ask the press associations, the editors of newspapers not served by press associations, and the listening posts controlled by private enterprises to withhold information concerning the prisoner broadcasts.

2. Arrangements then can be made with the War Department, the Federal Communications Commission, or some other Government agency to release the names of American prisoners mentioned by the Japanese broadcasts immediately after each broadcast. The release could be preceded with a warning that such lists are necessarily subject to error and that these errors will be rectified by the War and Navy departments as soon as more positive information is available.

3. With the information released by a government agency instead of obtained from monitoring reports of the enemy radio, American newspapers can proceed to process local interest stories obtained from relatives of the captured men in their localities and print them exactly as before. The only losers will be the Japanese.

(I am sending copies of this to Mr. Price, Mr. Mellett, and other members of the Committee on War Information.)

IP:
