894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., August 1, 1931 - July 2, 1934 (File 822), part 2 of 3
ID: 894.00-822-2   Pages: 419   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-17/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20August%201%2C%201931%20-%20July%202%2C%201934%20822-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
Tracing the origin af narcotic
Monthly political report for Jany
Diplomatic visa report.
Survey on Manchurian Inoident.
10.
Singer Sewing Machine Company's difficulties.
Pages for Consular Regulations.
Cipher tables for Consulate General at Seoul
League of Asiatic peoples.
885
10,
Japanese mandated islands.
286
10,
Diplomatic visa report.
287
10,
Japanese radio stations.
288
15,
Laying of keel of U.S.S. WORDEN.
289
15,
World's Fair, Chicago.
290
25,
Home leaves of absence.
291
17,
Beneficiaries of Veterans' Administration.
292
18,
Diplomatic visa report.
293
21,
Mutual waiver of taxes on diplomatic and
consular property.
294
A study of Japanese psychology in regard to
treaties and other agreements.
295
21,
Visit of Mr. H. Hisayasu to the U.S.
296
21,
Japanese mandated islands.
297
21，
Trensmitting copy of JAPAN TIMES YEAR BOOK.
298
23,
Socony-Vacuum gasoline tank at Uozaki-machi.
299
23,
Convention of St. Germain en Laye.
300
24,
Arrival of U.S. military officers in America.
301
17
24,
Relationship between the Washington Conferenee
of 192l-22 and the London Naval Conference of
1930 and present situation in the Far East.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
Income tax rsturns
Diplomatic visa report
Manohuria and Ohi
24
Assigning contraot symbol numbe
300
25
Japanese budget for the fiseal
April 1, 1933
307
27, Japanese Foreign Orfice offioials.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SKH-
May 4, 1933.
Tokyo's Monthly Report for Maroh,
1933:
I suggest that page 1 of the report
(not of the summary) be read in full.
Page 3. "Although the atmosphere in
Tokyo during the month has been outwardly
charaoterized by goodwill toward and inter-
est in the United States more than by
evidence of hatred or malice, yet signs
have not been lacking that anti-Amerioan
feeling, and even fear of the United States,
still exist among important elements of the
Japanese."
Page 4. "Among the causes of friotion
ahead might be the passage by Congress of
the Arms Embargo Aot and recognition of
Soviet Russia. Either of these moves by
the United States would give ammunition to
the Japanese military in their propaganda
oampaign against the United States. Both
appear to the Japanese to be efforts on the
part of the United States to better her
ability to enter into combinations against
Japan. Wide publioity is given to all
press despatohes from the United States
bearing on these two matters."

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Beginning at the bottom of page 7 there
is a review of Japanese attitude toward dis-
armament, which might be glanoed over (pp.
7,8,9).
Page 12. The British embargo on ship-
ment of arms to the Far East was not used
by the military and the press to tir up
the people against Great Britain, though
less unfriendly aotion than this on the
part of the United States would probably
have started a tremendous commotion.
Page 13. The press again reports (there
was a similar report a year ago) that a
diplomatio counoil will be oreated in the
Foreign Ministry with duty somewhat like that
of the General Staff of the Army, that is,
formulation and development of polioies.
Page 15. It appears that the Prime
Minister and the Finanoe Minister, who
form the baokbone of the Government, will
probably saorifice their health and their
personal desires to give up their positions
for the sake of their country and will
carry on until some sort of orisis arises
or until their health gives out.
Pages 19,20. The Diet passed four
important economic laws: Steel Merger Law,

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Exohange Control Law, Farm Debt Read justment
Law, and Rioe Control Law. These two pages
should be read.
Page 2l. Aooording to Mr. Moss,
President of the Japan Steel Produots Company,
Limited, the recent strike in that company
was the result of general anti-Amerioan
propaganda and the feeling that the Amerioan
officials of that company were paid too high
salaries. The strike was broken up by the
polioe and two leaders were dismissed.
Page 24. Aooording to press report,
20,O00 Japanese migrated to Brazil during
the past 12 months, the greatest number in
any year.
LES:CLS

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF
UNITED STATES OF AM
(LEGAL AD)
131933
Tokyo, April 1, 193
DEPARTMENT OF STADE
No. 346.
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
WE
during the Month of March, 1933.
7
SA
VD
F/HS
May,8,933
APR22 83
le
TE
3
141
Atiro of Frenaew. Adviser
MAY 15 1933
SEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEFARTMENI OF STATE
C
C
11933
WESTERN EUHOPEAN AFFAIRS
Fi./64
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 24 1933
Department of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
MAY
With reference to the Departnent's instruction No. 93
FILED
2
1
of July 23, 1926, I transmit herewith the Embassy's monthl9
19
report on conditions in Japan for the month of March, 1933
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report No. 78
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Legation, Peiping
1!
" Consulate Genera1,Shanghai.
" Consulate General, Mukden
11
" Consulate Gencral, Harbin
In cuedruplicate to the Department
800-Japan
SwW:r

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Apr1111
Mupthtyteport
during the Month r Marel
The financial crisis in the Umited State
the California earthquake brought forth from the
nese press expressions of admiration for Americaf
rulers and sympathy for her people. A great demohs
of friendship was made in the presence of the Ambas
on American Day at the International Women's ana Chil
dren's Exhibition. A large section of the press cailm
upon President Roosevelt, as well as the Japanose Govern-
ment, to take advantage of the inauguration of a ne ad-
ministration in the United States and Japan's withdrawal
from the League of Nations to institute better relations
between the two countries. The Osaka MAINICHI marred
the general atmosphere of goodwill during the month
by criticizing the commercial inquiries of the American
Consul in Kobe and creating a false impression of the
reaction of the Japanese business men toward them.
On March 28 Japan's resignation from the League
was formally transmitted to Geneva. That seetion of
the press which reflects the opinions of the military is
optimistic about the future but many papers express grave
apprehension regarding Japan's international relations.
In spite of violent discussions Japan remains adamant
in her determination to retain control of her mandated
islands in the South Seas. Germany and the United States
are

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
gousad in the press. pr
deprive Japan or
the Disarmament Conrerence though he
robahly be concentrated on increasing her
forces and raising her ratio of naval strength
lation to the other powers. The MacDonald Plan
cold reception here.
The Japanese Army conquered Jehol with apparent
ease but are meeting trouble in their tactical position
on the Great Wall. It appears very possible that they
will go into North China.
With the arrival of a new Russian Ambassador ther
Is more talk of a Japanese-Soviet non-aggression pact.
The raising of the arms embargo by Great Britain was well
received in Japan. A "Great Asia Association" has been
inaugurated in Tokyo. The Privy Council has recommended
that a Diplomatic Council be created in the Foreign
Office.
With the adjournment of the Diet rumors continue
to be heard regarding a change of government but it is
difficult to see who could form a successful government
if the present one should resign.
The Diet poss ed  great many bills submitted by
the Government, a few of which are discussed in this
report.
The American financial crisis caused the Tokyo ex-
changes to close for several days but did not greatly
affect the yen exchange rate.
An American steel firm successfully broke down
a strike of its employees.
The

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
Tientain a shipmebt or Ford trucms which
for the use of Chinese military forces.
ere landed at Dairen and eventually wold to the
noso army
Japanese emigration to Brazil for the fisealy
ending March.31, 1933 established e record for sime.
On March 3, the northern prefectures of Japan were
visited by a severe earthquake and tidal wave resultim
in many deaths and much loss of property.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.89)
1078
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF MARCH, 1933.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
POLITICAL RRLATIONS WITH
GMITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHE
(a) Japan and the
(b) The Status of the Japmse
Mandates
(c) Japan and the Dissrmament
Conference
(d) Military Operations in Jehol
(e) Manchuria
(f) Relations with Boviet Russia
(g) Relations with Great Britain
(h) Inauguration of the "Great Asia
Association".
12,18
(1) Creation of Diplomatic Council in the
Japanese Foreign Office.
13,
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
14,15
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
16
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
17
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) The effects on Japan of the American
Financial Crisis.
18,19
by the Diet
19,80
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS:
(a) Strike of the employees of the
Japan Steel Products Company, Ltd.... 21
(b) Difficulties encountered by the Ford
Motor Company in delivering trucks to
China.
21,22,23
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
24
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
The earthguake in Northern Honshu
25

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITE THE UNITED STATE
During the month of March the Ameridd
 dial orlsis and the California earthquake c
for headline space in the Japanese press with Jai
earthquake and her withdrawal from the League or N
It is believed that the Japanese reaction to Amerid
troubles and, more especially, to her manner of meeting
them was one of goodwill and sympathy. After blaming
the financial crisis on the "short-sighted" economio
policies followed by America in the past, the Japanese
press expressed nothing but praise for the courageous
manner in which President Roosevelt handled the situation.
When the Economy Bill, slashing government expenditures,
was proposed and then passed by Congress, the United
States was held up by a large section of the press as
an excellent example for their own rulers to imitate.
The earthquake in California, coming two weeks
after the earthquake and tidal wave in northern Honshu,
evoked many expressions of sympathy from the Japanese.
Several relief funds were started in memory of the aid
which the United States extended to Jupan after her big
earthquake in 3.* Th contributions will necessarily
be small but it is significant that this is the only
occasion during the last eighteen months of criticism
of the United States that any section of the Japanese
public has been heard to cull attention to the many
philanthropic acts nerformed in the pust by Americans
* Embassy's despatch No. 3:4 of March 16, 1933.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
th tho Ambas
Miniater and expressed the sympat
Government and people on accoum't ot the
ad tieat wave ih Sortherd Honshu and
an appreciative reply.*
A remarkabIy enthusiastio demónstration of
ship for the United States was seen on American Day 
the International Women's and Children's Exhibition.
Ambassador delivered an address and presented the
bition with an American fleg and two dolis dressed-in
American colonial costume. On the playing of the Btar
Spangled Banner the very large audience, composed of
middle and lower classes, arose and waved small American
flags. The incident at least showed that it is as easy
if not easier, to stimulate enthusiasm for the United
States among the Japanese as it is to incite hatred.*
The coincidence of the inaugurat on of President
Roosevelt and the withdrawal of Japan from the League
have brought forth many appeals to the Governments of
both countries to pay special attention from now on to
Japanese-American relations. Several Japanese news-
papers call upon the new President to try to repeal
that part of the Immigration Law which the Japanese
consider discriminatory.***
 The HOCHI SHIMBUN of Tokyo,
in its issue of March 3l, carried an especially strong
appeal
*Embassy's telegram No. 56,Mar.6-4 p.m; Despatch
No. 320 of March 11, 1933
*# Embassy :s despatch No. 335 of arch 20, 1933.
*** Embassy!; despatch No. 317 of March 10, 1933.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
to tho two nation to get
aditor stated that there is no reald
between them and blamed the present to
of confidence which could be restored if the rul
would make a sincere effort to accomplish it, He
Mr. Matauoka's visit to America and expressed the
that he would be more successful than he was at Geneva
Although the atmosphere in Tokyo during the month
has been outwardly characterized by goodwill toward and
interest in the United States more than by evideace of
hatred or malice, yet signs have not been lacking that
anti-American feeling, and even fear of the United
States, still exist among important elements of the
Japanese. The OSAKA MAINICHI early in the month carried
a·report that certain important Japanese firms had re-
ceived inquiries regarding their business from the
American Consulate and that they, being greatly sur-
prised by the nature of the questions asked, had re-
fused to asnwer. The truth was that the Consul in
Kobe had received complete replies to his World Trade
Directory inquiries from all the firms which were
mentioned in the newspaper article. He was later in
forueu y the manager of one of the principal firms
that the article had come up for discussion at the
Osaka Club umong about twenty of the leading business
men of Osaka and they had all termed it an example
of the paper's at empt to curry favor with the military.
The Consul was assured that the leading business men of
Osake understo I the nature of his inquiries and were
glad

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
 to tho two nations to get to
between then and blamed the present ton
of confidence which could be restored if the rul
would make a sincere effort to accomplish it.
Mr. Matauoka's visit to America and expressed the
that he would be more successful than he was at Geneva.
Although the atmosphere in Tokyo during the month
has been outwardly characterized by goodwill toard and
interest in the United States more than by evideace of
hatred or malice, yet signs have not been lacking that
anti-American feeling, and even fear of the United
States, still exist among important elements of the
Japanese. The OSAKA MAINICHI early in the month carried
a·report that certain important Japanese firms had re-
ceived inquiries regarding their business from the
American Consulate and that they, being greatly sur-
prised by the nature of the questions asked, had re-
fused to asnwer. The truth was that the Consul in
Kobe had received complete replies to his World Trade
Directory inquiries from all the firms which were
mentioned in the newspaper article. He was later in-
forueu uy the manager of one of the principal firms
that the article had come up for discussion at the
Osaka Club among about twenty of the leading business
men of Osaka and they had all termed it an example
of the paper's at empt to curry favor with the military.
The Consul was assured that the leading business men of
Osaka understood the nature of his inquiries and were
glad

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
gladto furnish him with the
Treke Directory reports
Among the causes of friction ahead might
the passage by Congress of the Arms Mabargo Act
recognition of Soviet Russia.** Bither of thos
moves by the United States would give amnunition
the Japanese military in their propaganda campeign
against the United States. Both appear to the Japanes
to b e efforts on the part of the United States to
better her ability to enter into combinations against
Japan. Wide publicity is given to all press despatches
from the United States bearing on these two matters.
X
Embassy's despatches Nos. 321 of March 11, 1933
and 323 of March 16, 1933.
兴法
Embassy's despatch No. 316 of March 9, 1933.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
POLITTOE
RELATTONS WITE OTHER COUNTREA
nd the Lee of
aithough the docision was made during
provions month, March witnessed the Forn
to the League Secretariat of Japants resignation t
that organization, to take effect at the end or the
year period specified in the Covenant.
Although the nation outwardly appears to be undted
In this action there is an undercurrent of uneasiness
Some of the newspapers express the chauvinistic spirit
of optimism and unconcern regarding relations with th
western countries while others are definitely appre-
hensive. Generally speaking, the former are the papers
of Tokyo, where the militarists exercise most of their
influence, and the latter are located in industrial and
commercial centers such as Osaka, Nagoya, and Fukuoka.
The business leaders appear to have taken the notice
of withdrawal calmly, the move having been well dis-
counted by them ahead of time. There is a great deal
of talk regarding the possible economic boycott though
the g eneral opinion is that the nations of the world
are unlikely to declare it because of the harm they
would suffer themselves.*
On March 8 it was announced that the Cabinet had
approved the note of resignation to be sent to the
League and that it had been forwarded to the Privy Coun-
cil for its a proval. On the 14th the Tokyo ASAHI
published
* Embassy's desuatch No. 312 of March 7, 1933.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
severely criticized for allowing the "leakw to poaur
Finally on March 28 in the morning the Privy Eoung
unanimously approved the text of the note and in th
afternoon, after the Emperor's approval, it was teles
graphed to Geneva. * A few days later the Foraim
Office spokesman announced that Japan would continuo
for the next two years to pay her quota of the -
penses of the League but that she did not consider
that she had other "obligations" to dis charge under the
Covenant.
(b) The Status of the Japanese Mandates.
The stand of the Japanese Government regarding
the status of her mandate in the South Seas as out-
9621.01
lined in last month's political report has not changed
during March in spite of continued heated discussions
of the matter. The Japanese press and certain offi-
cials were spurred to further statements during the
month by reports from Berlin that the Hitler regime
had tried to start negotiations to recover possession
of the island s. The various spokesmen for Goverament
Departments burst forth into verbose assert:tions of
Japan's intention to retain the islands. The news-
papers of March 25 carried a story that the Japanese
Navy Department had issued a oamphlet claiming among
other
* Embassy's telegram No. 68, march 29- 11 a.m.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
er things that Japan pesseases doverel
andated islands and will retain them under a
cumstances. The Navy Department later informe
Haval Attaché of this Embassy that uthe story was
fabrication.* Some spokesmen were reported to have
referred to the necessity of the islands remaining
1n the hands of Japan for purposes of the defense of
the Empire, seemingly having forgotten their country
agreement not to fortify them. A report that the Nasi
do not really want possession of the islands but only
recognition of Germany's right to have the question
of the disposition of her former possessions recon-
sidered appeared to arouse nothing but scorn among the
Government spokesmen.
1/
There is enclosed with this report a translation
of a press despatch from Shanghai published in the Tokyo
NICHI NICHI on March 27 which states that the United
States is behind the schemes to wrest the South Sea
islands from Japan. The article goes on to explain
that in case of wr the air forces of the American
army re planning to advance on Japan by way of Hawaii,
Midway, Waike, Guam, and the Philippines, and Japan's
positior in the islands offers a serious threat to the
Amerieon plan of strategy. It calls attention to the
greut c ivity of Americans in connection with aviation
activities in China and contends that this is in prepa-
ratiou for the fortheoming war.
(c) J nan and the Disarmament Conference.
In spite of her vithdrawal from the League of Nations,
50
Jenan
*hmbassy's elegram No. 66 of march 2t- 1 p..

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
8
Japan will continue to attend the Di
Ference. This course is apparently to be folle
with the full consent of the War and Wavy
Depan
ments though the former has let it be undaratee
the Japanese Army will have to be increased in the
near future rather than decreased. The Wavy is be-
lieved to be equally determined to make no concessions
at Genova.*
Under the Protocol of September 15, 1932 Japan
agreed to assist "Manchukuo" in maintaining peace
within her borders and in defending herself from out-
side aggression. To accomplish this Japan has kept in
Manchuria a force of about 47,000 officers and men,
all of whom are a part of the peace time Army she con-
sidered necessary for the defense of her Empire before
September 193l. The Japanese military authorities have
repeatedly stated that a force cf 150,000 officers and
men will be necessary in Manchuria over a period of from
5 to 10 years if the ccuntry is to be pacified. "Man-
chukuo" has announced its intention of raising an army
of 100,000 und J: pan wil1 probably supply the other
50,000 to be kept permanently in Manchuria. As she
considers her present army necessary for her own defense,
Japan will undoubtedly wish to increase her forces,
rather than reduce them. At the Disarmament Conference,
it is beli ved, she hopes to obtain the acquiescence of
the cther Powers in his program without starting a race
in
* Embassy's teltgram No. 58, March 11-7 p.m.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
in armmments, in which she knows she cannot acce
fully compete.*
In view of these facts it is not surprising that
the so-called MacDonald Disarmament Plan was coldiyr
ceived in Japan. The War Office spokesman was roported
in the press to have stated that Japan cannot agro t
 shortening of the period of military training from
eighteen months to eight months as it would be bad from
the points of view both of training and of econory.
(According to press reports this proposal was to apply
only to European armies). He stated that she could not
agree to fix the calibre of mobile land guns et 105
millimetres though she has no objection to fixing the
calibre of coast defense guns at 16 inches. He said
that Japan cannot agree to limit her military aeroplanes
to the same number as Great Britain, :nd the United
States as these two countries h: ve so mny commercial
planes which really could be adapted to war purposes.
The Wavy Department ha kiven n e ually cold
reception to the renorts of the MacDon ld Plan. Its
spokesman contended, rother surorisingly in view of
Japan's recent action, thet Mr. MacDon: ld's sug-
gestions for euforeing peaer  re in contravention of
the"League Covonant". He st: te. t t J nan will not
agree to a pro ongation or the Tr aty of London after
1936, but will instead cl"im a r vision or the tonnage
ratios fixed by th : re ty. The J murese Navy will op-
pose the limitation of the rize of miiitary and naval
aoroplanes
*mba: sy
。。

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
10
meroplanes to three tons "as Japan needs larger
To the Japanese all questions or limiting airplanss
umnter on the problem of aircraft carriers. They do
not want to limit planes unless the other countries
abolish carriers.
(d) Military Operations in Jehol.
54
The conquest of Jehol by the JapaneselManchukuo"
forces appears to have proceeded with little opposition
as far as the Great Wall. There the Chinese forees,
according to the repcrts available in Tokyo, have caused
no little trouble. The Japanese claim that most of this
is due to a number of places where the positions on the
Wall are tactically disadvantageous. Kupeikow proved
to be one of these spots. The Japanese claimed to hold
the Wall but because of a loop at that point the Chinese
made their position very difficult.They, therefore, tried
to get the Chinese to move their forces out of a neutral
zone south of the Wall.* Little information has been
available in Tokyo regarding the extent of the fighting
but it is tpparent that the Japanese troops on the spot
wish to move into North China. Two major generals at-
tached to the Kw: ntung Army have recently returned to
Tokyo for the urpose, it is a leged, of persuading
the Government to a low the Army to operate south of
the Wall. They cleim that their treops ure in a very
difficult tactical osition on the Wall. ** The Japanese
Minister to China  nd the First Secretary of the Japanese
Legation
* *Emb: ssy1s telegram No. 57,
Emp ry!: telegram No. St.
Pch
March 10- 6 b.m.
p..
Embassy s telegram No. 67, March :b- 2 .m.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.95)
Legation in Peiping have also returned te join
conference. A press ban dated Mareh 9 prokibita
cation of reports regarding " warships,airplanes, or
unit strength which are expected to be dispatohed
China or"Manchukuo" shortly from Japan".*
(e) Manchuria.
Early in the month the press reported that
"Manchukuo" had turned over to the South Manchuria
93.77 Manchnia
Railway the operation of all the Chinese-owned railway
in Manchuria. This undoubtedly means the eventual oon-
solidation or, at least, elimination of competition
between the Japanese system and the "parallel lines"
constructed by the Chinese, which have been complained
of so much by the Japanese. It would be the natural
outcome of the recently developed theory that the South
Manchuria Railway was a prime factor in the events of
September, 1931.**
(f) Relations with Soviet Russia.
The new Soviet Ambass dor, Mr. Constantin Yurenev,
presented his credentials to the Emperor of Japan on
761.94
March 20, h ving arrived in J pan several days previously.
The anitude f the Japa ese toward Soviet Russia
has become involved in their minds with the question of
the r sumption of relations betveen the United States
and Rus: ia. The commercial :nd business people want to
enter into : non-arresri n pact with the Soviets but
b It every move in thet direction.*x* The
let:er  re frantically ureoariny for war. They have
recetly dir cted he foreign eil comp nies to report
theirr
teir proboble future , im orts
of
Emba: sy egrem No. el, March 14
341 f Mareh
197
carer

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
of bil and they have for the first time reqtisi
tioned some of the commercial motor truaks
mubsidized by the Army.* The factories which
faoture war supplies have been working night andd
for months. Many well-informed obseryers believe
that these preparations are for a possible war with
the Soviets or the United States, or with both. Ira
vellers from Russia report that similar activity
exists in Siberia.
(g) Relations with Great Britain.
The British embargo on the shipment of arms to
the Far East and the threat to restrict it to Japan was
741.94
the cause of much concern to Japanese leaders and of-
ficials,** and the news that it had been entirely re-
voked was received with relief. It is significant that
the military and the newspaners apparently made no at-
tempt to stir up the people against Great Britain on
account of this matter though less unfriendly action
on the part of the United States would probably have
started a tremendou: commotion.
(h) Inauguration of the "Great Asia Association".
On March 1, there was held in Tokyo the inaugura-
790.94
tion of the "Great Asia Asrociation"(Dai Asia Kyokai).
The newspepers essert thet the orgunization is the pre-
cursor of a League of A Latic Nations, with Japan as
the center. The inaugural ceremony was attended by
General
*Telegram No. 59, March 13- 8 o.m.
**Embassy's telegrom 55, March 6-
p.m.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
18
Gemeral Araki, the Minister of War; Mr.
formerly Foreign Minister; Mr. Hatoyama, the Minist
for Education; several prominent army officerayile
representative of "Manchukuo" , who appeats to have
been the only non-Japanese present; and about a hun-
dred others: No details of speeohes were given to the
press.*
(i) Creation of Diplomatic Council in the
Japanese Foreign Office.
021
It is reported in the loeal press that the Privy
194.
Council has suggested to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
that a diplomatic council be created in that Department.
The new group would be similar to that which existed
during the Terauchi administration in 1917 and would
be to the Foreign Office what the General Staff is to
the Army. Last Year the Foreign Office planned to es-
tablish such a group to act as a sort of a research
bureau, but the ideu wastuned down by the Privy Coun-
cil. The reason given for the change of opinion is
that the international situation has recently changed
and Janan, cutside of the League, will have to follow
a much more forceful diplomatic policy than she did
before. The duty of the new council would be to
formulete pnd deveion oolicies.
No. 51l of Maret 7, bß.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
Session of t
utat to a closs
sesslan and
country almost forgot ite erimtence.
the dsmal scanes of disorder
to the desire of the political parties to make a
better impression on the public. If they had taken
more positive attitude the public might bave been
favorably impressed but the members were entirely pes-
sive. Their inertia was due to a great extent to fo
of what the military and the reactionary soeleties
would do to any member who should say anything not in
line with their ideas. There were no really animeted
debates and little initiative was shown by the members
They all followed the rather listless leadership of
the Government.
The rumors of a change of Cabinet which have been
discussed in previous monthly reports continued during
the past month but it seems less and less probable
that Premier Saito would be able to resign. It is
understood that for personal reasons he would like to
get out. He is getting old and he considers his strength
to be hardly equal to the strain of being in office.
Finance Minister Takahashi would like to resign for similar
reasons. However, it is clear that the country has not
yot acquired enough confidence in the political parties
to make it advisable that one of them take over the
reins

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
on.government.
factione wdala éooperate as they have
Government. The Tokyo NICHr NICHI stated in
torial of March 30 " It seems that the Prem
termined to continue in office at least for the
boing. In this connection, it is wrong to trace
rumors about the resignation of the Salto Cabin
political schemers. It is the lack of power and merty
on the part of the Government which caused the imprassion
that its fall was near .......If the Premier into
remain in office he must realize his responsibilit
The only way for him to dispose of rumors about his
tenure and ease the public mind is to consolidate the
position of his Government." It looks as if the two
"old men", Premier Saito and Finance Minister Takahashi
who form the backbone of the Government will probably
sacrifice their personal desires and their health for
the sake of their country and will carry on until some
sort of a crisis arises or until they give out.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
$8
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
The 64th Session of the Japanese Imperial Diet
32
adjourned on March 25, having been in stive session
about sixty days. Its accomplishments inelude the
passage of twelve bills relating to the Budget, thelu-
ding the Budget estimate for the fiscal year 1933
which has been discussed in previous reports , the
supplementary claims for the same fiscal year, and
deficiency bills for the year 1932-3.
Four important economic laws which were passed,
the Steel Merger Law, the Exchange Control Law, the
Farm Debt Readjustment Law, and. the Rice Control Law,
are discussed later in this report(See Section V1).
A bill for the relief of the victims of the earth-
quake and tidal wave in Northern Honshu will increase
the budget dcficit by about Yen 10,000,000.
An interesting bill was one for the "Preserva-
tion of Art Treasures", providing for the registration
of secondary art treasures, which were not covered by
existing laws, nd the prohibition of their exnortation
except with the permissin of the Department of Educa-
tion. That Department will send its agents to all curio
shops, seles, privite collectors, et cetera, to make
sure that the objects covered by the law are registered.
The aleged caure of the passage of the bill was the
acquisition by the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston of "The
Seroll of Kibi's Aev ntur in China", a Jopanese painting
of the twelfth century.
The l we o  in this ta ion of the Diet will be dis-
more  tail i  nother revort from this Embassy.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
17
GOVERROENT PINANCE.
is stated elsewhere in this repomt the
for l9sz-4, which has been discussed in prevloua rer
from this Embassy has been passed by the Impemimt
A bill was also passed providing for bond issnes to
balance the budget.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
GENERAL ECOFOMIC AND FÍNANCIAL
()
The mreacts on Japah of 
monatni Criatav
The Financial erisie in the Umit
1ta mepercussions in Japam. The state moratoris
wore given wide publicity during the first few days
the month and on March 3 the local press stated that
Japanese bankers were considering transferring thair
deposits from dollars into sterling. However, the
Bmbassy was informed on that day by the Presiden#
of Mistui Bank that his bank was taking no such stop.*
When the gold embargo was declared, all Tolyo
exchanges, stock and commodity, except the rice ex,
change, closed their doors. All foreign exchange trans
actions were suspended on March 6th and 7th. The com-
modity markets reopened on the morning of the 8th and
the stock achange opened at 1 p.m. on that day.
Finance Minister Takahashi made a statement to
the press attributing the American crisis to "inflation
of currency and concentration of effort in large-
scale industry with too much emphasis on foreign trade".
Japanese industrialists, especially the cotton spinners,
petitioned the Government to take steps to prevent a
rise in the value of the yen. When the quotations
of dollars were resumed it was found that there had
been little change. On March 1, the yen buying rate
was 20-3/4 and on March 4 1t was 21-1/4. When the ex-
change reopened on the 14th 1t was 21-3/4 und on the
31st it was :1-1/.
On March 28 the Japanese Governnent shipped to the
United
p.m.
* Embassy's telegram No. 54, March

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
par
or Japem for the
aent to the United Statea to pa
t debt, servige and other expense
(u). Economie Legislation, paaeed by the Di
The Steel Merger Lam recently passed.by
provides for the consolidation of the Government
mlils with the mills of the five big private st
panies of Japan. The Government will owa 45 per
of the shares in the combination. This consolidatiou
is something that the private companie have been working
for for a long time as they have been suffering frem
overvaluation of their properties.
The Exchange Control Law which was recently passed
was originally introduced into the Diet purely as a
measure to enable the Finance Minister to contrel the
flight of capital but as finally enacted it gives him
much wider powers. The agitation in many foreig
countries, especially the United States, aguinst the
dumping of Japanese goods at cheap prices prompted
the Government to incorporate in this law a provision
giving the Government power to control the export
of commodities. It can prohibit the export of com-
modities which it considers are being exported at
too low a price.
The Farm Debt Readjustment Law provides for loaning
to farmers Yen 200,000,000 at low rates of interest. If
the farmers are unable to repay the national Govern-
ment will stand good for 20 per cent of the loans and
the

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
prefectural governments for 10
coat
Unless there is a big boom it scems likaly
eventually the Government will heve to take
the entire amount of these loans.
The new Rice Control Law supplements an old
which provided the Government with the mum or Yen
480,000,000 with which to purchase rice when prices
were low. The new law increases the sum to Yen
700,000,000, includes Chosen and Taiwan in the are
of operation of te law, and directs that the importation
and exportation of rice be governed by permits.  It
is hoped that the new law will enable the Government
better to stabilize the price of rice.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
Strike of the employeez of
At the beginning of Maroh the Jap
Produets Company, Ltd., whose capital is aid
 per cent American and whose president is Mr.
Moss, an American, was confronted with a strima of
1ts Japanese employees, who demanded the dismissal
of the American officials of the company. The ofri
cials threatened to close down the company unlesa
the men returned to work. This stand and the efforts
of the police soon broke up the strike, two of the
loaders being dismissed.
The president of the company has stated to
member of the staff of this Embassy that he has no
reason to believe that this strike was brought about
by the efforts of any outside organization. It was
the efiect of general anti-American propaganda and
the feeling that the American officials were paid
too high salaries.
(b) Difficulties encountered by the Ford
Motor Company in delivering trucks to
*
China.
On March 7, the HARU MARU, carrying one
hundred Ford Motor trucks, two Ford touring cars,
753.94
and gasoline consigned to the American Chinese Company
at Tientsin, was forced to put into Dairen because
of an alleged mutiny of the crew which, for patriotie
motives, refuced to be paty to the delivery of materials
destined for the use of the Chinese Army. The crew,
it
* See despatch of American Consul in Dairen dated
March 20, 1933.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
at ir they delivered the cargo
m the Boat first grived at Dairen thare
tion on the part of the local gendarmurie to seixe
the trusks as contraband. Though this obyiously
unwise move was abandoned it soon became apparent
that no Japanese ship would be likely to carry the
cargo to Tientsin and that probably no foreign ship
would be permitted or willing to do it. After
delays without good reason, the American Consulat
was informed that the Kwantung Army was against the
shipment of the trucks to Tientsin and that arrange-
ments were being made to purchase them locally.
Finally, it was arranged that the South Manchuria
Railway Company was to buy the trucks on behalf of the
Kwantung Army and that the purchase was to be made
from the Manchurian Motors, who are the local dis-
tributors of Ford products in Dairen, and not from
the American Chinese Company. After protracted ne-
gotiations the sale was made and the trucks were un-
loaded, the touring cars being allowed to proceed to
Tientsin.
The transaction was financially unfortunate for
all concerned. The South Manchuria Railway had to pay
more for the trucks than it would have paid for trucks
purchased in the normal way in Dairen. The American
Chinese Company received less than it would have received
had

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.89)
lost the cost of
mehmrimm Motors lost the profit
cen a normal sale in its oam tevri

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
mofriosl statisti
inicate that the J
auring the Japanese fiscal
1933 mas 20,£74, which 1s said to be
any year since the movement started: This
migration is attributed to the increase which
ment recently made in the stipend given to ewigtant
and to th offect of increased propeganda in favor
of the omigration.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
The earthaimke in Northern Hanshu
Barly in the morning of Marob. & tha
prefeotures of Japan, principally Iwate and Miyasi,
wore shaken by a violent earthquake. The first
was recorded at 2:30 a.m., originating in the sea bed
about 100 miles off the coast, 143 degrees E. Long.;
38 degrees N. Lat. A few minutes after the first
quake an eight-foot tidal wave broke over the coast
along a distance of 300 miles, destroying villages,
harbors, and boats and carrying the wreckage out to
sea. The latest figures place the dead at 1,560 with
nearly a thousand people still missing.
Soon after the catastrophe military and naval
planes flew over the stricken district and reported
the entire seaside in ruins. Eleven destroyers went
in search of the 900 fishing boats which were reported
missing. Other relief measures were undertaken im-
mediately. The War Office donated Yen 10,O00, the
Emperor Yen 39,700, and the Home Office undertook the
work of relief.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
NICHENIC
Shanghai special telegram of Mareb 
between Japan and Germany. It is quite clear
Umited States of America which is kommly watcht
from the League of Nations, is actively conebrned be
the curtain about the Japanese mandated territory q
The movements of Far Eastern policy of the Uhitad Stat
with the Japanese mandated territory as centre are the
fore worthy of attention. Lately the ambitions of the
Upited States, especially of military authorities(air
forces), for an advance upon the Far East are beceming
undisguised. The United States air forces are planting
to maintain lines of communication over the South Paci-
fic between San Francisco and Canton via Hawaii, Hidway,
Waike, Guam and the Philippines. So long as the South
Pacific Islands such as Yap, et cetera, remain under
Japan's control, the lines of communication above-men-
tioned are always uneasy. The occupation by Japan of
these islands has been a serious blow upon the United
States military authorities . Japan's withdrawal from
the League of Nations is a unique opportunity for the
United States to start movements so as to release those
islands from the Japanese mandatory administration. In
this connection, there is one thing that cannot be over-
looked. It is that far-reaching military plans of the
United States in the Far East, especially in China, are
being materialized steadily. In Canton which is the Far
Eastern terminus of the lines of communication, in-
fluential American advisers are active. Especially
active are Captain Marry(?) of the U.S. Navy, Captains
Merry(?) and Harrison(?) of American Air Forces, under
whose guidance a plan for the inauguration of six bat-
talions of air force(comprising 216 planes of American
system) is drawn up in Canton, besides another plan for
the inauguration of three battalions of air force, three
battalions of guards and six battalions of high-angle
gun corps. At Shao-kuan and Chao king, large aerodromes
were recently established, while plane factories were
also established at Canton City and Shao-kuan. The
aerodromes and plane factories are being operated under
charge of American experts. For the inauguration and
expansion of air forces in Canton, a secret contract for
a 1oan of $10,000,000 1s reported to have been signed
between the Canton Government and the United States. In
times

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
adey, the above-mentigned
of operations of the United
The American plans mentioned above may well
id to bè beyond the sphere of America's help tew
Camtom Government and to be a forerunder of Ane
future marlike plans toward Japan. In case a wer
pogur between the United States and Japan, the forme
thinks that the latter will attack the Philippines
Japen may therefore regard the American plans in Canten
as being aimed at cutting Japan's line of communigation
to and from the Philippines. Japan may also think
that the United States is also planning the carryimg out
of a big plan to replenish the United States Ravy's
strength for the control of the Pacific by establishing
a baseat a point nearest to Japan.
In view of all this, there is no doubt that the
United States is grasping the present opportumity for
the realization of its plans inthe Far East. The American
plans will prve efficacious only when the South Pacifie
1slands such as Yap,et cetera, aretaken away from Japant
control. It is therefore easy to see what are Ammricats
machinations in planning the release of the island of Yap
and other islands from Japan's mandatory power.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.87)
rin.
p
Pritiah arme embarge.
üessage of sympathy re serthpake
30, 6 . Bino-dapanese fighting in Joh
11, 7 p.m. Japamese attitude toward Disarm
18. p..
Regmisitioning orf motor truckm by Jaganm
Govermment.
15p
Estimate of Japanese land ferees.
" 14. 9 p.m. Press bans in Japes.
" 16, 4 p.m. Japemese oustoms requirements.
" 20, 5 p.m. Nercotios onvention of l931.
64
"28, 6 p.m.
MacDoneld Disarmament lan.
" 24, 10 a.m.
Fersonal telegram for the Secretary from the
Ambassador.
66
" 25, 1 p.m. Japanese Mandated Islands.
67
25, 2 p.m. ino-Japanese fighting in Jehol.
68
28, 11 a.m. Japan's withdrawal from the League of Nations.
69
30, 3 p.m. eizure of narcotios from Japan.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.85)
De o2 Con ..
Lebgue of Lesetie Yeeplee.
Leee or Natens.
. Singer Sewing Maehine Gampany's ésrria
presestt relatioms betmses Japem and the U..
 Perpetual Lesse proparty in Japem.
9. Soviet-Japan-mriean relatiens.
10, Japamese expestations of the Roosevelt Aéministrat
10, Post Repert.
10, Diplomatic visa repert.
020
11, Message of sympathy re earthouake in Japan.
381
11, Spy seares 1n Japan.
8
15, Contreet symbol number for power and light sehedule.
300
16, Spy soares in Japan.
884
16, Earthguake in Southern Califormia.
385
17, solar colipse.
326
18. Completion oF the U.S.S. PORTLAND.
829
17, Japanese budget.
320
17, Asseasment of oharges against Embassy property.
329
17, Letters regatory.
380
18, Diplomatic viea report.
881
20, uarterly examination of Mr. Schuler.
387
22, Demire of Irs. Flower to attend Garden Party.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
4
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 9, 1933.
JMm:
Tokyo's monthly report for April, 1933,
contains little material not already known
to the Division.
Page 9: According to the Tokyo press,
General Muto has concluded negotiation of an
agreement providing for leasing of land in
Manchuria by Japanese subjects.
Page 16: Announcement on April 19 that
the Japanese Navy Department wouid reestablish
a naval base at Port Arthur was followed by a
press despatch from London stating that Great
Britain considered the reestablishment of this
base a violation of the Nine-Power Pact. The
Japanese Navy Department then issued a state-
ment contending that the Port Arthur naval
base was abandoned by Japan in 1922 as an
economy measure and that, as it is situated in
the Leased Territory, no other country has any
right to question what Japan does there with
regard to naval bases. The press then an-
nounced that the British naval spokesmen had
retracted their contenticn and drcpped the
matter.
Pages 17 and 1e give surm ises with regard
to the future of the Japanese Cabinet. The
two paragraphs on page ie should be read.
Page 19:

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Page 19: Japan's national debt on
March 31, 1933, was Yen 7,054,195,000, an
inorease during the year of Yen 866,538,000.
Page 20: "General economic and financial
conditions in Japan have suddenly become more
dependent upon happenings abroad. The reports
of inflation of American currency and the
appreciation of the yen in terms of the dollar
ourtailed one source of the profits which some
of the Japanese exporters have enjoyed during
recent months. On the other hand the silk
people have gained as alleged American infla-
tion caused the price of silk to rise from
about Yen 700 to Yen 800 per bale."
Page 21: There was a slowing up in
industrial activity in Japan during April due
to decreasing orders from the army and navy
as the result of their having accumulated a
stock sufficient for an emergency. It is
understood that there will be a decrease of
from 10 to 20 per cent in the orders for sup-
plies for the two services.
Page 22: The Nanyo (South Seas) Develop-
ment Company has announced that it is increas-
ing its capital from 7 to 20 million yen to
finance sugar cane plantations in the L rshall
Islands. It would appear that Japanese
capitalists are determined to develop these
Islands economically.
FE:ZESYZMK

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, May 8, 1933.
No. 382.
SUBJECT:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
during the Month of April, 1933.
EGAL ADVISER
F/1
HS
TOSPARTMENT OF STATE
1933
COPSENT
8
HECO
30
HAY26
Oikee of Eaanemic Adviser.
11933
SEPARTMENT OF STATE
R
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
65
MAY 2: 1933
Depatment of State
The Hon reble
The Secr tary of State,
Washington.
1933
Sir:
With reference to the  enartment's irstruction No. 93
1/.
of July 3, 1e26, I transmit herewith the Embassy's monthly
report on conditicns in Japan for the month of April, 1933.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Grew
Report, No. 79
Copy to Legation, Peiping
11
" Consulate General, Shanghai
11
" Consulate General, Jukden
11
" Consulate General, Harbin
In quadruplicate to the Department
800-Japan
SWW:E

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX.
I.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STAT
(a) Pueparations for Economic Gonversationa
at Washington
(b) Address of former Under-Secretary of
State.Castle
5
(c) Visit to Japan of a Philippine Mission 5,6
(d) Japanese comments on American plans to
build warships
6
II.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Relations with China.
7,8
(b) Relations with "Manchukuo".
8,9
(c) The Dispute with the Soviets over the
Chinese Eastern Railway.
10,11,12
(d) Abrogation of Indo-Japanese Trade Con-
vention
12,13, 14
(e) Japanese-Dutch Arbitration Treaty..... 14,15
(f) Relations with France.
15
(g) Internati nal Labor Office.
15
(h) Port Arthur Naval Base.
15,16
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
17,18
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
NIL
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCES:
19
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS: 20,21,22
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERICAL INTERLSTS:
(a) The American Oil Companies.
23
(b) The difficulties of the General Elec-
tric Company.
23,24
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESS: NIL
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
(a) Labor.
25
(b) Emigration.
25,26
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
NIL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.87)
70
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF APRIL. 1933.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITTCAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITBD
(a) Prañarations for Economic Comversati
Hashington.
Relations between the Japanese and Amerioan
mants during the month of April were more or less
te the preparations for the forthcoming talks t
preliminary to the International Economic Conforence.
April 1l the Japanese Cabinet decided to accept tho invit
tion edtended by the President of the United States* and
two days later it had decided to send Viscount Ishii nd
Mr. Eigo Fukai, Vice Governor of the Bank of Japan.*
Viscount Ishii has had little or no economic or inan
cial background but is a diplomat of long experienee. The
fact that he is the chief of the delegation is takon to ea
that Japan is not as much interested in discussing economie
matters as in sounding out the attitude of the present Ad
ministration toward Far Eastern problems. Prior to the re-
ceipt of the invitation from the President neither the
Japanese Government nor the Japanese-public showed any con-
siderable interest in the Economic Conference. The atten-
tion of the country has been absorbed in political, rather
thaneoonomic, matters. Japan has not suffered from the
depression so much as has other countries. However, the
invitation from the President of the United States changed
the entire aspect of the economic discussions. The Japanese
were gratified by this indication that their country was
not going to be isolated iplomatically as much as they had
feared. Furthermore, the invitation appeared to offer the
Japanese a chance of ciscussing the political situation
in the Far East with the nev administration in the United
States.***
Viscount
* Embassy's telegram No. 76, April 11-7 p.m.
** Embasey!s telegram No. 79, April 13-noon.
*** Embassy's despatch No. 365 of April 19, 1935.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Viscount Ishii is an ardent nation
paper interview he disclaimed any intention of brim
up the Manchuria issue at Washington, unless is
troduced by the President. However, it has bosn 
that for many months Viscount Ishii has anted to
the United States as a representative of his Goterr
to "explain" Japan's position and has been held back or
two reasons: - first, the Japanese Government had no 
cuse to send a representative and did not want to sem to
be pleading for a hearing, and, secondly, it did not with
to embarrass Mr. Matsuoka by having another propagandimt
wandering about Europe en the United States. Now, the in
vitation from the White House furnishes an excellent exouse
to send a delegation directly to the United States and the
recent return of Mr. Matsuoka to his native land loaves the
foreign stage clear for Viscount Ishii. Those elements
which tended to criticize the Government for withdzawing
from the League will acclaim any signs of cooperation by
Japan with other nations and the more militant elements
will be please by any attempts to tell the people of the
United States vhat Japan's stand is. As many Japanese
papers have pointeo out, it wil be impossible to keep the
Manchurian question fron arising in the discussions at
Washington. If it is brought up in no other way it may
be expected to arise in connection with discussions of the
disarmament problem. Japan considers her position on dis-
armament vitally linked with her guardianship of "Manchu-
kuo".
As the month closes another possible political topic
of iscussion is loomin up, - namely, American adherence
to

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
to the principle of a consultative pact to
the Kellogg Pact. The press reports that the
or the United States is considering such  tep
causing grave concern to the, Japanese politieal
and Viscount Ishii may be expocted to interest mim
the matter.
Mr. Eigo Fukai, Vice Governor of the Bank of Jap
understands thooughly his country's economic position
will probably supervise all economic discussions. In
cent newspaper interview* he stated vlearly that he per
ally favored a return to the gold standard and hopod thet
the London conference would pave the way for such actiom
everywhere. When asked what economic questions between
America and Japan were likely to come up during the con-
versations at Washington, he replied:
"Japan is prepared to discuss the question of tariffs
on the basis of reciprocity, but our main import from
America is cotton and our main export silk and both
are free from tariff so tariffs apply only to minor
commodities in our foreign trade. Our minor articles
of export are subjected to a high tariff in your coun-
try and our tariffs on some American goods may be con-
sidered high in the United States.!
The Japanese officials and the press have shown some
concern over the possibility that the President may try to
confine the discussions to the economic sphere. They
realize that economic liscussions would have little publicity
value in Japan. Furthermore, Japan does not appear to be
prepered to make any important trace concessions to other
nations. Some manufacturers complain of high American
tariffs on certain articles but, as stated by Mr. Fukai,
the im rtant Japanese exports to the United States are not
hit. Among the Americn exports which are handicapped by
the
* Fabassy's telegrar No. 82, April 19-10 a.m.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Mapanese teniff are petreleum and aut
In sach case the Japanese are so desigous of
a domestic industry that, it is probable, the thited Sta
would be compelled to offer considerable concessiems,in
to secure reductions. The Japanese state that they ar
favor of low tariffs but this means that they went to ai
courage any raising of tariffs by other nations: A move 
the United States to raise its tariffs on goo manulae
in countries with depreciated currencies would cause muh
concern to Japan.
The only economic problem which appears to interost the
Japanese very much is that of currency. They are quito
happy when the yen is valued at 21 or 22 cents and they
possibly would be contented as long as it does not go above
25 cents. However, every indication of a lower value or the
dollar causes tremendous concern to the Japanese industrial-
ists. Certain Japanese interests have profited greatly by
the decreased exchange value of the yen and every attempt wii
be made by the Government to keep the business world satis-
fied. The press is very cautious about endorsing the Ameri-
can pronosals that currencies be stabilized and that all
countries return to the gold standard. They contend that
the world supply of gold must be more evenly divided before
the gold standard can be r stored and they insist that the
yen cannot for the present be brought back to its former
value. The announcement on April 19 of the American gold
embargo and of the President's approval of the draft of a
bill giving him power to alter the gold content of the dollar
was s ek to Jupa esr leaders. It emphasized the importance
to
 despate. No. 260 of Apr11 21, 1933.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
to Japan of the forthcoming conversations.
the Foreign Office spokesman, seized the opportumity
accuse the United States Government of insinseri
plicity. He furthermore stated that the plans of the
Japanese delegation would have to be changed entirel
cause of this move.
(b) Address of former Under-Secretary of tate Cast
The Japanese press gave prominence to an allege
statement by Mr. William R. Castle, formerly Under-Sooreter
of State, in a speech in Philadelphia, to the effect that
the last administration never took the position that the
United States would not eventually recognize Manchuruo,
with the obvious implication that such recognition may come
about in due course.* It started wide discussions among
prominent Japanese and in the press where it was interpreted
to foreshadow a change of policy on the part of the United
States.
(c) Visit to Japan of a Philippine Mission
On April 8 there arrived at Yokohama a Legislative Com-
mission and a Goodwill Party from the Philippines. The for-
mer was composed of four members - Mr. Marcelo T. Boncan,
Mr. Juan L. Luna, Mr. Jose F. Romero, and Mr. Jose Ozamiz -
and was accompenied by four technical advisers, - Professor
Vicente G. Sinco, 'rofessor Jose a Espiritu, Attorney Quan-
tin Paredes Jr., and Mr. Gregorio Nieva, a writer. The
Goodwill Party was composed of 34 members. The two groups
visited Yokohama, Tokyo, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, and Kobe. The
ourpose of the visit wa: said to be the stimulation of Japan-
ose-Phili pine trade. The leaders stated that they wished to
open
.71, Apri1 11-noon

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.96)
the independenee of the isaminds
were widely entertained by trade asse
Japan the Mission procesded to China for
(a) Janepase commenta on Ameri
warshtns
The various proposals made by American
officials and members of Congress to build the
navy up to treaty limits have been published in
it is only natural that the Japanese should 
interested in the American naval program. Howaver
of the comments made by Japanese papers are a little
prising in view of the tendency of their country to
its military and naval power. The OSAKA ASAHI stato
"The advocates of a strong navy in the United Sta
... seem to think that it will help world peae
The world war has shown how futile it is to promote
peace by maintenance of the balance of power among
nations. Peace will be helped by a decrease in the
balance of power, not by an increase."
The comments of the NICHI NICHI were as follows:
"To expand a navy within the treaty limit is each
nation's privilege, but is highly unbecoming of
America who wants to take the lead in the world's
movement for disarmament and peace promotion.
If America wants the presert positive naval pro
gram in order to carry out her national policies,
she is pursuing quite an anachronic policy
The Kellogg Pact by which America sets such store
forbids warfare as a means of pursuing national
policies."
II

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
POLITICAL RILATIONN
(a) Balatléna mi)
Fighting continned along th
month of April. The Japanes
member of the staff of this Embmosy the
attack was launched by the Japanese line
to Shanhaikwan. Its purpose was to dislod
from commanding positions immediately south
Wall and there to establish a Japanese outpost 
resistance to cover the main line of resistanas.
Wall.* It is believed that the Japanese Gen
does not contemplate sending an advance fore
China if they can avoid doing so. The efforts of 
Army at the Wall to obtain reinforcements from Japan 
pear to have been unsuccessful.** This in itselfr wiil
tend to keep the Army in check. The officials at home ar
apparently sincerely anxious not to get involved in military
operations in North China but some concern has been felt
that the Army in the field could not be relied upon to con-
fine their activities to the area north of the Wall. The
Japanese evidently intend to drive all the Chinese forces
beyond the hills and to break up any military units in that
region which appear to be a menace. With the troops now
on the scene it is felt that the e is less danger of these
operations spreading than would be the case if their re-
quests for reinforcements were met.
The month of April has been a period of many conversa-
tions anc conferences regarding the Japanese policy toward
China. Besides the presence in Tokyo of the generals who
wanted
*Embassy's telegram No. 75, April 11-6 p.m.
** Embascy's tolegram No. 83, Apr11 19-7 p.m.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
alleged to be the glat as the d
policy which were reached in his convar
ment officials.* They state that Jopan
policy not taking sides in the disputes b
as long as they have to do with domestio 1
ever, Japan is prepared to ccnsider favorably
local or general, which may sincerely strive for
of the Far East and for friendship with Japen,
give due regard to the safety of the territory or
force and will protect its trade with Japan. This
ly means that the Japanese Government is now prepared.
to support local leaders who are friendly to Japan and
endeavor to restrain the anti-Japanese boycott.
(b) Relations with "Manchukuo"
Reports from various sources indicate that Japanese
893.01Manhuun
or "Manchukuo agenta" are endeavoring to induce Mongoltn
princes in Chahar to give allegiance to "Manchukuo"  I
a sufficient proportion of the province of Chahar can be
brought under the "Manchukuo" flag in this way, we may
reasonably expect Chahar to be claimed as a part of the
territory of the new regime and the province to be brought
under the influence of the Japanese Army. It is reported
that "Manchukuo" is about to gain the allegiance of the
Silingol Mongols living along the Kalgan-Urga caravan route,
thus closing the route to Chinese trade.
On April 15 the Japanese Foreign Office announced
that Japan and "Manchukuo" had on March 26 signed an agree-
ment
*Embassy's telegram No. 85, April 22-11 a.m.
** Embassy's telegram No. 81, Apri1 18-11 a.m.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
At thepreaent ti
Manchurian Mailway Zone have been under
Japen while those in other parte of Manchuria
managed by #Manohukuo". Under the new agreesemt
cal communications company will be formed. The Je
Government and "Manchukuo" will contribute to the 
in the form of turning over to the company the com
tions which they now control. The remainder of the
will be obtained by public sale of its seeurities.
It
announced that the text of the agreement would be publi
after the exchange of ratifications.
The Tokyo press states that General Muto, Japan's 
bassador to "Manchukuo", has concluded the negotiation of n
agreement providing for leasing of land in Manchuria by
Japanese subjects. According to the reports the agreemont
provides that (1) Iand leases are to be negotiated freely by
individuals or organizations, (2) leased lands are to be im-
mediately utilized, (3) the area of lands to be leased by
individuals or organizations is to be restricted, (4) indi-
vidual applications for leasing land are to be accompanied
by a certificate of character issued by Japanese Consuls,
and (5) applications for leasing land are to be approved
by the Japanese Embassy as well as by the Consuls.
(c)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
The month of April witneased
attempt on the part of the Boviees to
the dispute. between Soviet Russiarand
rolling stock of the Chinese Eastern Bail
Manahuria to Tokyo. Ever since the ineident
1931 the Japanese press has carried reports
accnsations that the Soviets were taking loeo
cars from the Chinese Eastern Railway into theirt
and not returning them. The latter part of Maroh rep
began to arrive at Tokyo that the matter was coming to
head and it was used as the basis for one of the periodie
rumors of approaching trouble between Japan and U.S.S.B.
However, the Japanese apparently were leaving the matter to
be settled on the spot between the "Manchukuo" official
and the Soviets.
On March 18 the Soviets published the text of a communi
cation which their Vice Commissar for Foreign Affairs had two
days previously delivered to the Japanese Ambassador. This
communication accuses Japan of not living up to her promises
to protect the property of the U.S.S.R. in Manchuria. It
stated that Japanese Government has given repeated assuranees
that its military authorities and other officials in Manchu-
ria would do everything possible to protect the rights and
interests of the Soviets, especially in the Chinese Eastern
Railway. The communication mentioned especially seven
basic points; namely, (1) the seizure of the Chinese Eastern
Railway wharves on July 7, 1932; (2) the non-payment by the
Japanese of the transportation charges for their troops on
the

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
the Chimase Eastern Baiiway
the selsure of transit goods by
the direction of Japanese officials) (a)
ganisation of the eastern line of the Chin
way because of the attaoks of bandits; (5) the
dition of affairs on the eastern line in spif
that the Japanese troops were given transportasip
with the understanding that it was for the pur
storing order there; (6) the Soviet contentien th
locomotives held in Soviet territory are owmed by th
S.R. and not by the Chinese Eastern Railway and
regards the cars, there are as many Soviet cars in m
ria as Chinese Eastern Railway cars in Soviet territory
(7) the arrest and detention without trial of Soviet eit
zens, and their torture by Japanese employed by "Manchulruo
The Japanese have not yet formally replied to the
above accusations but press reports indicate that in anster
ing some of them they will undoubtedly use reasoning similor
to that used in the past by the Soviets when the Third In-
was
ternationale/accused of activities unfriendly to other na-
tions. The Japanese will proclaim their irresponsibility
for acts of Japanese subjects employed by "Manchukuo". How-
ever, some of the charges if they have any basis. in fact,
cannot be answered in this manner.
It would seem difficult for the Japanese Government to
escape responsibility for the charges for transportation of
Japanese troops though they will probably state that they
have no intention of not paying this debt. Furthermore, if
the

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
tate, of affairs on the
tern Railway is as bad as the Syvis
premmmts it to be, the Japanese will not
responsibility in view of the presenee of
for the purpose of keeping order. Little
in the past concerning conditions on the easterm
ever, the Japanese are now accused of hawing all
bandits to make transportation there impossible
divert trans-Siberian traffic from Vladivostok to
ehurian ports.
The Soviets are not so convincing in their defen
against having retained in their territory locomotives
cars that belong to the Chinese Eastern Railway. They
that locomotives belonged to Russia and not to the railmay
in Manchuria. However, they do not make it clear why they
did not seize them during the ten-year period prior to the
incident of September 1931. There appears to be reason for
thinking that the Soviets were in dire need of rolling stock
and simply took what was available. This need may, or may
not, have been caused by preparations for war against Japan.
The Soviets have undoubtedly placed the Japanese in an
awkward position by publishing their communication to the
world. Apparently Japan wished her ward, "Manchukuo" to
handle the Chinese Eastern Railway dispute quietly but the
latter did not show the proficiency in diplomacy, or the
consideration for her guardian, which was expected of her.
(d) Abrogation of Indo-Japanese Trade Convention
On

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
On Apr11-10 the Brit
Japanese Ambaasador at Lendon
Convention which was sigmed in Tokyo in 19m
to the provisions of the convention the termth
take effect six months after the notificatlem
tobor 10, 1933.
Since the depreciation of the yen, the Jape
mills have been doing a big business in India and
cording to press reports, been underselling the Indian
mills. The abrogation of the agreement means the raisi
of the Indian import duties on cotton goods as well a
other articles, and this will in turn mean that Japan
principal market for these goods will be seriously restrid
ed. In spite of the fact that abrogation is provided for in
the agreement Britain's move caused a loud outcry in Japan.
In many quarters it was represented as the beginning of an
economic boycott of Japan. Britain was accused by some
papers of abrogating the convention, not at the request of o
for the benefit of India, but to promote her own political
aims. A few days after the announcement Finance Minister
Takahashi came to the defense of Great Britain, stating
in a press interview that she did not abrogate the pact for
political or retaliatory reasons but to protect the markets
of the Lancashire cotton mills. In spite of this, Japanese
trade organizations continue to protest against British
action as violating the traditional friendship between the
two countries. Mass meetings of protest have been held
and there appears to be some danger that Great Britain
wi11

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
be aubjeoted to a ware èf
which she has been comperatively 
eighteen months of anti-foreignims.
As the convention is not terminated wati
remedial action may yet be taken to save the 
Japanese. It is understood that conversations
place with a view to drafting a new agreement and
more, the Japanese hope that the matter will be
the London Economic Conference.
(e) Japanese-Dutch Arbitration Treaty
9412
According to press reports the Japanese Ministe
S
Hague has signed the arbitration treaty between Japan and
the Netherlands which has been under negotiation for
months. Its exact provisions have not been published yet
It will be remembered that when Mr. Matsuoka visited Holland
after leaving Geneva it was reported in the press that his
mission had to do with insuring for Japan a supply of oil
from the Dutch East Indies in case the League should apply
economic sanctions. At about the same time it is reported
the Foreign Office spokesman, Mr. Shiratori, stated in a
private conversation that in the case of war Japan would
immediately seize the oil wells in the Indies, whether the
Netherlands declared war or not. It is therefore not un-
natural that the signature of a treaty with the Nether-
lands should be connected in the minds of many people with
Japan's desire to secure for herself a supply of oil in
case she should become engaged in an international conflict.
However, many Japanese editors hail the treaty as the first
of a series. They assert that it indicates the direction
of Japan's iplomacy now that she is outside the League.
According

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
Acoording to press reporte ons
the hegotiation of the treaty was with res
to which disputes would be referred. Japen!
the Permanent Court of International Justice
uncertain in view of her withdrawal from the I
was finally deoided to name the International
bitration at the Hague as the court of appeal
(f) Ralations mith France
The Tokyo newspapers have recently been publiwming
94
despatches from Paris regarding a movement to establi
a sort of Franco-Japanese entente. The nature of the
tente is stated to be cultural but in view of the fact
that the names of prominent French officials are associ
with it it is possible that it may have political sigmifi
cance.*
(g) International Labor Opfice
C115
During the early part of April there was some agitation
for Japan's withdrawal from the International Labor Office.
The National Federation of Industrial Organizations was the
leader in the movement. The immediate cause was the pro-
ject for the International Labor Conference which meets in
June to discuss the 40 hour working week and old age in-
surance, to which it, was stated Japan could never subscribe.
However, the permanent Japanese delegate at the International
Labor Office informed the governing body the latter part of
the month that, in spite of Japan's withdrawal from the
League, she has no intention of resigning from the Labor
Organization.
(h) Port Arthur Maval Base
On
*Embassy's telegram No. 77, April 12-5 p.m.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
00 4pr11 19 the Je
the maval base at Port Apthur would be
der to place the navy in a better
ese subjects in Borth China and to protect
with "Manchnkuo". This announcement wes followen
despatch the next day from Lofdon stating that
considered the reestablishment of this base a vi
the Nine-Power Pact. The Japanese Navy Department
ly issued a statement contending that the Port Arthe
Base was abandoned by Japan in 1922 as an economy
and that, as it is situated in the Leased Territetyne
other country has any right to question what Japan does
there with regard to naval bases. Following this the
announced that the British naval spokesmen had retract
their contention and had dropped the matter.
III.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Speculation concerning the
Cabinet continues as it has during many
little to add to what has been said in
ports. The only certain fact is that it
The press has reported that Mr. Takahashi, the
Minister, would certainly resign after the
the report on the incident of May 15 of last yas
1s not believed that this can be taken as a for
clusion. The press has also reported that the Promiar
was determined to carry on even though Mr. Takahaahi mhoul
resign.
The Premier was subjected to some criticism aarly in th
month because of the manner in which he handled the resim
tion of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Matsukichi Koyama,
which was submitted because of the discovery of a communist
in his department. The resignation was handed to the Premior
on April 5. He transmitted it to the Throne on the next
day, accompanying it with a recommendation that the Minister
be retained. The Emperor then requested the Minister to
cancel his resignation and the latter complied. On the 8th
the Premier informed the Cabinet of his part in the incident
and some criticism was expressed. However, those who may
have wished to take advantage of the affair to force the
Premier's resignation were disappointed. Both the Army
and the Seiyukai Party announced their support of the Pre-
mier.
The uncerteinty regarding the probable life of the
Cabinet weakens its influence to some extent and there is
undoubtedly a feeling that its usefulness has almost passed.
However,

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
However, there appears to bo no
sort of government shoulà suoceed ita
Cabinet will likely carry on until this'p
It is understood from a reliable sour
Prince Saionji, desires the present Cabimet to
for the time being.* The liberals hope thet the
ment will pursue a more conciliatory policy in inte
al affairs. They believe that the decision to with
from the League of Nations, by which Japan 1s plated
unenviable position before the world, is the climax
may conceivably give them the foothold for which they
waited during the past eighteen months. It is belfeved
that these opinions are shared by the Genro himself.
However, there appears no evidence that the dominatin
of the country by the military has relaxed to the slightest
degree. There is little likelihood that a new government
could be formed that would not be amenable to the desires
of the Army. One method proposed for bringing about the
downfall of the Army is to cause it to be divided within
itself. Some people believe that the appointment of Generar
Ugaki, the Governor General of Korea, as Premier would
bring about a cleavage among the officers. He is said to
be the leader of a still powerful military group which is
opposed to General Araki, the War Minister.
TV.
*Embasry's telegram No. 80,April 15-1l a.m.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
OOURSE OF LEGISLATION:
N11
GOVERNMENT FINANCES:
A Government report published during April
the national debt of Japan on March 31, 1933, tho 
the fiscal year, at Yen 7,054,195,000. Thís represon
net increase during the year of Yen 866,538,000.
ly more than 82 million yen of foreign obligations
off during the year, the increase in the domestic debt
Yen 948,675,000. In addition, there were outstanding on
March 31 Treasury B1lls to the value of Yen 100,000,000
and Rice Purchase Notes to the value of Yen 220,364,000,
latter being secured by rice in storage.
VI.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
20
GERERAL ECONOMIG AND FINARBYAD
Gensral economio and finamaial
ddenly become more dependent upen
paports of inflation of Ameriean curremoy
tion of the yen in terms of the dollar curtailed
of the profits which some of the Japanese emoz
enjoyed during recent months. On the other he
people have gained as alleged American inflatidn
the price of silk to rise from about Yen 700 to
per bale.
The forthcoming talks at Washington and the Confer
extremely
at London will naturally exert an important infltance over
conditions in Japan and speculation regarding their outoom
enters into the calculations of government officials and
industrialists. The problems of tariffs,returning to the
gold standard, and tin exchange rates are widely diseussed,
In common with other nations the Japanese wish lowered tariffs
in other countries but are looking for excuses to keep their
own tariffs at their present levels. They contend that
Japan now operates under a tariff law of 1910. This is
hardly true because, while the basic law is of that date,
enough minor modifications have been made to make the
basic law unrecognizable and the general level of rates
much higher than they were in 1910. Government spokesmen
have declared in favor of restoring the gold standard in
principle; however, they add that Japan must gain control
of more gold before this can be done and furthermore, they
make

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
rom appreciating to any troat
Another problem which comeerms
much is the matter of payment of foreign bonds
The Japanese say that if the United States and
allow their domestic government bonds to be paid
eurrencies Japan will insist on paying her fori
devaluated currency.
There has been a slowing up in inaustrial
Japan during April due to decreasing orders from the r
and Navy. It is understood on reliable authority that
henceforth there will be a decrease of from 10% to 0%
the orders for supplies for the two services, due te thoir
having accumulated a stock sufficient for an emergency.
The fat profits made by certain Japanese companies
during the last year are reflected in the report prepared by
the Mitsui Gomei Kaisha on the profits of 1250 Japanese cor-
porations. The net return on their paid up capital for the
second half of 1932 was 7.1% as compared with 4% for the:
same period of 193l. The utility companies all made good
profits in 1932 though the payments which they had to make
on their foreign-owned bonds prevented their declaring large
dividends. In the business of shipping, the Nippon Yusen
Kaisha made a profit during the second half of the year
though it passed its dividends during the whole. of the year
1932.
The new exchange law was promulgated to become effective
on May 1. Its principal effect will be to prevent the ex-
port

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
dia not cover.Undort
Mither deposit their drafts in a Japa
upon the shipment of the goods or, in the
whieh do an import business also, register ithd
aetfon and import goods of equal value within
twomonths.
The Nanyo Development Company has made an Inta
announcement; - namely, that it is increasing ita capi
from seven million to twenty million yen for the purpos
of financing sugar cane plantations in the Marshall Islama
in the Japanese Mandated area. It is significant that, in
spite of the world over production of sugar, the Japanos
capitalists desire to place considerable investments in
this industry. It would appear that they are determined
to develop these islands economically.
VII.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Boceny-Vacuum Corporation rinds
tult situation in Japan as a rasult of
the Important Industries Control Law to t
trade. This American firm and the Rising Sum
Company, a subsidiary of the British Shell, impor
completely
and they are the only/foreign companies which dis
gasoline in Japan. There are several Japamesd 11
import crude oil and refine gasoline themselves.
The Japanese law referred to above provides Tor n
agreement among the persons or firms engaged in omrtain
trades, which agreement in the gasoline trade fixes tho
price of the product. The price cannot be raised eicept
with the consent of the Minister of Commerce and Industry
At the present time the price of gasoline is fixed at a level
which forces the foreign companies to operate at a loss and
they see no prospect of bettering their positions. The
Japanese Government is known to be considering its future
oil policy and a definite statement is awaited with anxiety
by the foreign companies.
(b) The difficulties of the General Electric Company
The law suits which the General Electric,in protect-
ing their patent rights, have brought against the importers
of Japanese electric light bulbs in the United States have
caused a reaction in Japan. On April 15 a mass meeting was
held to protest against the action of the American firm. An
Anti-
* Embassy's despatch No. 366 of April 21,1933

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
ricanand
pertaded the
ed and the Japanese ware
duets in this country. Little has been he
sinoe the meeting and it is understood that th
has entirely faded out.*
VIII.
Embassy's despatch No. 363 of April 19, 1933

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
IX.
LABOR AND EMIORATION:
(a) Labor
During the month of April there was considerable
agitation in Japan regarding the May Day celebrations
The right and left wing labor groups were not abls to
agnee on any program for cooperation. The former
to discourage any demonstration that would savor of inter
nationalism and anti-Japanism. The left wing organisations,
however, made application to hold their usual parades. In
Osaka the police gave one moderate group permission to
hold a parade on April 29, the Emperor's Birthday, in-
stead of May 1. One right wing group in Osaka petitioned
the police mot to permit any celebration on May 1. In Tokyo
permission was given for two celebrations, one by the right
wing and another by the left wing organizations and the po-
lice tock steps to se that there would be no clashes be-
tween them.
(b) Emigration
According to press reports, the Department of Overseas
Affairs hopes to send more than 25,0oo emigrants to Brazil
8.32.5594
during the fiscal year ending March 31, 1934. This would
be an increase of 5, ooo over the number who went last year.
Apparently

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
the
Brasirier
hovement at the present time
MISCELLANEOUS:
11

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAMS TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
APRIL 1933.
No
Date
Subjeot
70
April 1, 9 a.m. Acknowledging receipt of code tables.
71
1, 9 a.m.
n
n
n
n
72
1, 9 a.m.
n
n
n
n
n
n
73
n
3, noon.
Narcotics Liitation Convention.
74
n
11, noon.
Aduress of Ir. Castle.
75
n
11, 6 p.n.
Jepanese Army activities in Jehol.
76
11, 7 p.m.
Preliminary Economic Conversations at Washington.
77
n
12, 5 p.m.
Reported Franco-Japenese Entente.
78
n
12, 6 p.m.
Narcotics Limitation Convention.
79
n
13, noon.
Japanese representatives to the Preliminary
Economic Conversations at Mashington.
80
n
15, 1l a.m. Political situation in Japan.
81
n
18, 1l a.m. Allegiance of Mongolian Princes to Manchukuo.
82
n
19, 10 a.m. :r. Fleisher's interview with ir. Fukai.
83
n
19, 7 p.m. anchuria :1litary Situation.
84
n
20, noon.
Arrival of Pouches from the Department.
85
n
22, 1l a.m. Future policy of Japan toward China.
86
n
25, no n.
Request of Charles :uchnic 'or Embassy's
assistance in securing contract for supplying
machinery in :anchuria.
87
25, 3 p.m. Japanese fishin6 vessels in Alaskan Waters.
* *

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
LIST OF DESPATCHES TO THE DEPARTLENT DURING
APRIL 1933.
No
Date
Subject
348
April 1,
Lonthly Political Report for March.
349
n
5,
Reduction in Salaries of Contingent Employees.
350
n
6,
Conversion of ex-U.S. Destroyers into Banana boats.
351
n
7,
Japanese Treaties.
352
3
6,
Addresses of American visitors to Japan.
353
n
6,
Lissing Pages of Consular Regulations.
354
6,
Supplies ror Custodian.
355
n
6,
Supplementary Eudget.
356
n
6,
Supplementary Budget.
357
n
7,
Diplomatic Visa Report.
358
n
7,
Returning books to the Jepartment.
359
n
14,
Informetion concerning Edwin Wood.
360
n
14,
Diplomatic Visa Report.
361
n
15,
hereabouts of Henry Huntington Gibbs.
362
n
17,
Consumption Taxes levied on Diplomatic Officers.
363
n
19,
Cociety Opposinc the General Electric patents.
364
1n
21,
inti-nerican Propaganda.
365
n
19,
Preliminary Economic Conversations at Jashington.
366
n
21,
Japan's Oil Problems.
367
n
21,
Financial easures passed by the Diet.
368
n
21,
Diplomatic Visa Report.
369
n
21,
Address made by the Ambassador.
370
n
22,
eturning old code tables.
371
n
24，
Co. ission of ice Consul A. E. Donovan.
372
n
26,
Supplies for Custodian.
373
n
30,
Diplomatic Visa Report.
*

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
5o.392
bed: May 8, 1933.
Bubjept: Report on Conditions in Japan during
Month of April, 1933.
Susmary:
Relations between Japen and the Uni
during the month of April consisted principally o
sions regarding and preparations for the fortheom
versations at Washington. Viscount Ishii and Mr. 
Fukai, Vice Governor of the Bank of Japan, are to bo th
principal Japanese representatives. The former is ad
mat with l1ttle economic or commercial training end may
expected to "explain" Japan's stand on internatibmal po
tical questions. The latter will lead the economia dis
cussions, Japan being principally interested in keeping
dom the "anti-dumping" tariffs of other countries and in
retaining the present exchange value of the yen in termsrof
the dollar. Minor topics of interest during the month in
the field of Japanese-American relations were the Japanese
reaction to the Philadelphia speech of former Under-Seore-
tary of State Castle, the visit to Japan of a Philippine
Good-will Mission, and the Japanese comments on the reports
that the United States intends to build its navy up to the
treaty limits.
Fighting continues along the Great Wall although Japan
apparently does not wish her military forces to go far into
North China. The Japanese are developing a policy for
treating with the various Chinese leaders. They are trying
to attach Charhar to "Manchukuo". Among agreements recent-
ly made between Japan and "Manchukuo" are one providing for
unification of the electrical communications in Manchuria.
and another permitting Japanese subjects to lease land in
Manchuria. The dispute with the Soviets over the rolling
stock of the Chinese Eastern Railway was brought to a head
by the receipt of a communication in which the Soviets
list their grievances. A furore was raised in Japan by
the announcement of Great Britaln's decision to abrogate
the Indo-Japanese Trade Convention, effective on October
10. It is understood that Japan has signed an arbitration
treaty with the Netherlands. There are more rumors of
closer Japanese-French relations. In spite of some vocife-
rous opposition in Japan, the Japanese delegate at the In-
ternational Labor Office has announced that Japan will not
resign from that Organization for the present. Japan's an-
nouncement that the naval base at Port Arthur would be re-
established, according to press reports, provoked a British
naval spokesman to state that this would be a violathon of
the Nine-Power Treaty, but this charge was later retracted.
The Japanese Cabinet continues in power in spite of
various rumors that its life is short.  The principal dif-
ficulty appears to be that there is no agreement as to who
could succeed the present Premier if he should resign. The
liberals

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
7,054,195,000
The principal factors in the ecom
ion are the American monetary poll
talks at Washington and Londoma
to-be placing fewer orders Yor
Among the American commercial intorest
having difficulties, the most serious appe
Socomy-Vacuum Corporation. The General Elac
faged with some hostile agitation during the
it did not develop into anything of importance
There was some agitation during the monthr
the preparations for May Day. The Right and Loft
labor.organizations could not agree on combined pl

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
 DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 1, 1933.
Tokyo's monthly report for May,
l933, is very comprehensive but almost
all the material has been previously
received in the Division.
Pages 18 to 20 deal with the
decision of the Finance Mirister,
Mr. Takahashi, to remain in office.
This decision has disappointed his
political party, the Seiyukai, which
was apparently hoping to come into
power following his threatened resig-
nation. The Finence Minister's
decision not to resign was due probably
to representations of the Genro who
decided against a return to party
government at the present moment, to
Mr. Takahashi's decision that he
would no longer be just a tool in
the game of party politics, and to
the attitude of the Army. Apparently
he was assured that the Army desired
him to retain his office. There are
rumors that General Araki, and General
Ugaki, the Governor General of Chosen,
have composed their differences,
although the latter was supposed to
have ambitions to become Prime Winister.
If

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
一2-
If these rumors are true, the Army's
power is more firmly established than
ever and a return to party government
would seem to be more remote. The at-
titude of the Seiyukai since Mr. Taka-
hashi's announcement has not served to
enhance the prestige of political
parties with the public. The political
position of the Cabinet may not have
been strengthened by Takahashi's
decision but its continuance in office
may have been ensured. Mr. Takahashi's
decision pleases business leaders and,
apparently, the Army.
Page 24. The Finance Minister has
informed the press that he sees no hope
of reducing expenditures during the
fiscal year of l934 and advocates raising
certain taxes to meet increased expenses.
LS:KC

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
2E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 1, 1933.
EA
No. 419.
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
during the Month of May, 1933.
LEGAKADVISER
JUN24 3
JL 17193
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F/HS
COPSENT TO
GNND M. I.D
Office odf Faenemir Adviser
JUL 19 1933
Copyin 71
PARTMEN oE STATE
DWision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUN 26 1933
P. R./66
Depertment of State
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
1/
of July 23, 1926, I transmit herewith the Embassy's monthly
report on conditions in Japan for the month of May, 1933.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report No. 80.
Joseph C. Grew.
JUL 20 1933
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
FILED
π
n Consulate General, Shanghai.
7
" Consulate General, Mukden.
π
" Consulate General, Harbin.
In quadruplicate to the Department.
800-Japan.
SWW:r

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATESY
(a) The departure of Viscount Ishil
Fukai.
(b) Japanese policy at Washington.
(c) The American proposal for a tariff trugo.
(d) Japanese reaction to American President's
World Peace Appeal.
(e) Japanese reaction to Viscount Ishii's
conversations
(f) General Araki's outburst at Kobe
6,7
(g) Preparations for the reception of Admiral
Taylor and the U.S.S. HOUSTON
II.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China
8,9,
(b) "Manchukuo"
10,
(c) The Chinese Eastern Railway Problem.
10,11,12,13,14
(d) British Empire.
14,15,16
(e) Important changes in the Japanese Foreign
Office.
16,17
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
18,19,20
(b)
The report on the assassination of Pramier
Inukai
20,21,22,23
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nil.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) Budget for 1934.
24,
(b)
 Profits of Deposits Bureau.
24
VI.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
SENERAL BCONOMIC AND FIRANOLAL CONDSTIO
(e) Agrarian Problems.
(b) Japan's oil problems.
(c) Exchange....
(d) Miscellaneous.Beonomic Matters.
(e) Effect upon Japan of China's tarirf
revision
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Difficulties experienced by American firms
in doing business in Japan.
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nil.
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Ni1.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
(a) Issue of Academic Freedom of Thought
Raised in Kyoto University
.30,
(b) Donations to the Japanese Army.
31.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF MAY, 1933.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
POLITICAL RELATIONO WITH THE UNITED
Japanese-American political activity
of May was centered in Washington. The
in chronological order as seen from Tokyo,
parture of Japan's representatives for Washimgt
proposal for a tariff truce, President Rooseveltts
for disarmament, and Viscount Ishii's conversatioma
the President. Other incidents affecting relations
between the two countries were General Araki's outburat
at Kobe and the preparations for the reception of Admiral
Taylor and the U.S.S.HOUSTON.
(a) The Departure of Viscount Ishii and Mr. Fukai.
principal representatives in the preliminary conversations
at Washington and at the London Economic Conference, left
Yokohama on May 4 and arrived in Washington May 23.* Mr.
Chokiuro Kadono, technical adviser and representative of the
Japanese commercial interests, departed on May 13 for
Washington via Vancouver.
At the time of Viscount Ishii's departure his inter-
views with the press indicated that his principal concern
regarding the Washington negotiations was fear of the
effects upon Japan of America's apparent conversion to
the idea of a consultative pact. He told the newspapermen
* Telegram No. 92, May 5- 8 p.m.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
re were several kinds of
he feared that America might adhere to
disadvantageous to Japam. Ho stated t
formetion regarding this matter came from the
he mas enxious to hear more whem he shoule trris
United States.
Viscount Ishii being the senior delegate; his
statements were given the greater publicity and the
feeling was that political matters would be more import
in the discussions than economic omes.
(b) Japanese policy at Washingten.*
Prior to the departure of Japan's representatives rer
Washington there were many conferences between the members
of the various government departments during which a gemeral
policy was outlined. Apparently, no constructive proposals
were formulated but it was decided to consider any proposal
which might be advantageous to Japan.
It is reported that the Japanese do not favor a
consultative pact which might cause Japan to be termed an
aggressor and they are not ready to disarm except under con-
ditions hardly acceptable to Europe and America. Vis-
count Ishii undoubtedly wishes to obtain recognition for
Japan as the "guardian of the peace of Asia" and, in the
political field, will do everything possible to bring
about the exclusion of the western Powers from partici-
pation in the settlement of Chinese-Japanese difficulties.
In
* Embas3y's telegram No. 101, May 17, 8 a.m.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
ters coènomio the
roturn to the gold standard and the stab
remgles but they have little gold with
about any stabilization and they do not wim
the yen at 1ts former level with relaticn to
It is understood that they are willing to cod
offorts to raise world price levels and to
intermational movement of capital; also, that thes
attempt to doaway with the restrictions placed upon
Japanese trade because of the depreciation of the yem
will favor bilateral or multilateral reciprocal tariff
conventions, rather than a general flat reduction in
tariff rates.
Generally speaking Japan's attitude at Washington
and at London has been expected to be reserved and negativ,
rather than constructive and positive. There is a general
feeling among the Japanese that their country has been out-
manoeuvred in past international conferences. They feel
too
that Japan's representatives have been willing to agree to
the proposals of other nations. Furthermore, they now
suspect that the other nations are combining against Japan.
Her present representatives abroad can therefore be ex-
pected to move carefully and to agree to little that
cannot be represented to the military as distinctly ad-
vantageous to their country.
(c) The American proposal for a tariff truce.
President Roosevelt's proposal for a tariff truce
pending the termination of the world economic conference
was accepted by apan almost immediately. The note of
acceptance was not published but according to the press
Japan

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
, paving to do with polictes alr
reserved the right to raist
millet imported into Keres from Manchuria and
right to forbid the importation of ships.
The
truce proposal is especially advantageous to Japes
her exportations have lately been subjected by othey
countries to many measures aimed to combat the do-
preciation of the yen.
(d) Japanese reaction to American Presidenti
World Peace Appeal.
President Roosevelt's appeal for disarmament
and non-aggression made a deep impression in Japanose
official circles where the opinion is gaining ground that
the past tendency to ignore the opinions and wishes of
other nations is in part the cause of economic reprisals
such as the recent abrogation of trade agreements by parts
of the British Empire.* However, this does not mean that
Japan will adhere wholeheartedly to the President's pro-
posals if they contravene what the leaders consider are
her vital policies. As mentioned elsewhere in this report,
there is an equally strong feeling that the Japanese Govern-
ment has in the past agreed to too many proposals without.
considering their meaning and implications. That part
of the President's proposals which had to do with the
MacDonald Disarmament Plan is certainly not in accord with
Japan's ideas. It is believed that she would never agree
to the principle that signatory states can designate or
define
X
Embassy's telegram No. 103, May 19- 1 p.m.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
seem to have special spplication to Japem
army is on Chinese soil. The Spokasman of the
1s quoted as saying that Japas would assent to
of the President's proposal if the world would
the Great Wall to be the northern boundary of Chimm
implications of such a suggestion are obvious. The Jape
nese troops being now south of the Great Wall a withis
to that point would allow China to save her face and, ir
President's proposals were given as the impelling reamem
Japan would be afforded a graceful exit frem what. may beeoms
an embarrassing situation. However, it is not certain that
the Japanese militarists are ready to withdraw from the
Peiping district. Although their position is more or
less embarrassing from the viewpoint of their relations
with the Powers, yet the policy which they are trying to pursu
in North China may cause them to be tempted to hold their
present position for the time being.
The Japanese press has been extremely cautious in its
comments on the President's proposals. The newspapers praise
the spirit but point out that though the principles of
disarmament and non-aggression may be applicable in Europe
the situation in the Far East is different. The tone of the
press has given rise to the opinion among many that Japan
will assent to the Prosident's suggestion in principle but
attach reservations which qualify, or even nullify,it.
AS

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
mitted it to his Ministers.
(o) Japanese reaction to Visceant Ial
As very little information was giren
the subject matter of Viscount Ishii's conversatio
President Roosevelt, little can be said regarding the
nese reaction. However, it should be mntioned thit
press was full of accounts of happenings in Washingtom
and the apparent success and cordiality that marked thi
talks was greeted with satisfaction by the editerial
writers. The press has hailed Ishii's reception asa
sign of increasing friendliness and understanding botwe
the two countries. The report that the United States
would not let Japan's stand in Manchuria block the efforte
of the economic conference to come to an agreement was
taken to mean that America had accepted the fait accompli
in Manchuria. Two Japanese newspapers published despatches
from their Washington correspondents on May 15 to the
effect that at the first conversations the President hinted
that if Japan would cease military operations in North
China and would support the disarmament proposals the United
States would abandon the so-called "Stimson Doctrine of
Non-recognition of Manchukuo".* However, nothing more has been
heard of this rumor.
(f) General Araki's outburst at Kobe. **
Two Kobe newspapers of May 10 end 11 reported a speech
or
*
Embassy's telegram No. 107, May 26- 11 a.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 410, May 24, 1933.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
sents have from time to time
press but this is the first reported to Wa
such a high official of the Governmest. Conaeq
explanation was requested by the Eabassy through
Office. The War Minister replied that ho bad spok
temporaneously and had been misquoted. As the orfgl
report had not been given extensive publicity the matter
not carried further.
(g) Preparations for the reception of Admiral Taylor mna
the U.S.S. HOUSTON
The announcement that Admiral Montgomery M. Taylor, the
Commander-in-Chief of the United States Asiatic Fleet, would
visit Japan on his flagship early in June evoked a warm re-
sponse from Japanese officials. The welcome accorded the
Japanese training ship during its recent visit to the west
coast of the United States made a good impression in Japa-
nese naval circles. However, more important than this is
the feeling that Admiral Taylor rendered a great service
to the Japanese during the Shanghai incident last year and
they are very anxious to show him some attention before his
return to the United States.*
Embassy's telegram No. 91, May 5, 1 p.m. and No. 98,
May 1l,  p.m.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.97)
PDLITICAL RELATIONS MITE
(a)
The manth of May opened with the
drawn up on a line in the resion of th
China. Negotiations for peace appekred to
It was reported that the Chinese had appeesehed
Minister to China and asked him to act as mediater.
appeared to be some hope that the tension between the
countries would ease. However, this hopeful situmtram
not last long, or, it might be more correct to state, ap
pearances had been deceptive. On May 6 the Japanese
launched a new and unlimited offensive. In explanation
the Kwantung Army issued a statement that the Chinese had
greatly presumed upon the Japanese withdrawal and while
proposing an armistice on the one hand they had been
harassing the Japanese troops continuously. It soon ap-
peared that the Japanese had discontinued their policy of
advancing and then withdrawing and were aiming to advance
far into North China, possibly to Peiping and Tientsin, with
the object of being able to dictate peace to the Chinese.*
On May 20 the Japanese Staff Office stated that the
Japanese troops were within 25 miles of Peiping on the north
and east but that occupation of the city would probably not
be necessary. * On the 23rd the press announced that the
troops were within two miles of Peiping and that the Japanese
* Embassy's telegram No. 96, May 9, Noon.
had
** Embassy's telegram No. 104, May 20, 1 p.m.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
ma the eracuatien of the
lons hed been sent to the troo
not: to nter Peip1ng.*
A report was soon circulated that a truee
sismed, but the Japanese press was forbidden
thing on the subject. It now appears that thoigh
gotiations were in progress for a week agreement wes
reached until May 3l. The Japanese hailed the sigmi
the truce as the fruit of direct negotiations with
Chinese, without the interference of western Powers
the furtherance of their desire to deal always directly
with the Chinese.
In connection with the Japanese advance into North
China and the signing of the truce, there have been many
reports that an independent state would be formed in that
district, not giving allegiance to Nanking. Some sections
of the Japanese are undoubtedly desirous of this and the
wish perhaps is father to the thought. If the power of
Chiang Kai-shek in North China should decrease to any
extent the Japanese might have little difficulty in
setting up a regime friendly to them. In this connection
it might be significant to note that the Tokyo papers of
May 31 reported the arrival at Moji of Major General Pao
Kun, a staff officer of Marshall Wu Pei-fu, who stated that
the people in the Peiping-Tientsin district welcomed the
Japanese troops and wished to establish a central govern-
ment with Javanese support which would save them from misrule.
* Embassy's talegram No. 105, May 23- 8 p.m.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
(0)
The oft-heard report that
the principle of the Open Door oaly to
recognize her independence was given expression
1n the month by Mr. Komai, the Japanese adviser and
Couneillor of "Manchukuo". His statement mas cabled
Amorioan and European press and received so much publie
that the Japanese Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs thougat
it wise to state officially that Mr. Komai spoke without
authority and that the Open Door would be strictly mmim
tained by "Manchukuo".*
Early in May the first "Manchukuo" Minister to Japan,
Mr. Ting Shih-yuan, arrived in Tokyo. His staff consists
of a Counselor and three secretaries. The Counselor and one
of the Third Secretaries appear to be Japanese subjects, and
not "Manchukuo" citizens. **
(c) The Chinese Eastern Railway Problem.
The month of May opened with some signs of approaching
861.77
trouble between Soviet Russia and Japan over the Chinese
Eastern Railway. Some people attributed the withdrawal of
the Japanese troops from the district south of the Great
Wall at the end of April to Japanese anxiety over the
situation in North Manchuria. However, this was not a wide-
spread opinion and the movement southward again toward Peiping
dispelled fears of this kind.
As Intimated in the Monthly Political Report for April
it is believed that the Chinese Eastern Railway dispute
was initiated by "Manchukuo" officials who failed to take
cognizance
*Embassy's telegram No. 89, May 3, Noon.
**Embassy's despatch No. 398 of May 12, 1953.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
coemisence of the fact that their mcti
serious consequences involving Japam.
was definitely called to the situatio
of April 16. Although an offort was made to.
Soviets to "Manchukuo", several Japanese ofrigial
men have admitted that, due to the protocol govere
the relations between Japan and "Manchukuo", the former
must supervise the foreign relations of the latter w
might eventually involve Japan. For a time it looked
if the "Manchukuo" officials had gotten their guardians
into serious difficulties but with the Soviet propomal
to sell Russian interests in the Railway, which is dis-
cussed below, tension decreased and all fears of immodiato
war disappeared.
The Japanese reply to the Soviet note of April 18
was sent on May 22 and was published on May 27. According
to the English translation issued to the press it was a
strongly worded document. It denied that any Japanese action
in Manchuria had been directed against the Soviets or their
interests. It stated that some of the facts enumerated
by the Soviet Government concerned the "Manchukuo" regime
and that the Japanese Government had nothing to doth them.
Regarding the transportation charges for Japanese troops
the note stated that an agreement had virtually been reached
to make a 50% discount from the general charges and that
there was no basis for the charge that the Imperial Army
had purposely delayed the negotiations. The note admitted
that
* Embassy's Telegram No. 93, May 6, 11 a.m.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
that bandits bad baen very aetive along the
nose and "Manchukuo" nationals had suffered a
Soviets and, furthermore, that traffic along
not been suspended since the termination of the
anti-bandit operations in January. The note demied
there were any grounds for the Soviets' having stated
their eitizens had been tortured by Japanese troaps.
The above-mentioned Japanese reply to the Soviet
note aroused, however, little interest in view of other
developments earlier in the month. For some time there
have been rumors that the purpose behind many of Soviet
Russia's actions in Manchuria has been to sell her interest
in the Chinese Eastern Railway . How long she has desired
this is not known and possibly she does not really desird it
now. However, on May 6 the Japanese Foreign Office confirmed
the reports that the Soviets had offered to sell. Some state
that the offer was made just in order to ease the situation
caused by the dispute over the rolling stock. However that
may be, the offer has been taken seriously in Japan and it
is reported that negotiations are under way. A press ban
has been placed on the publication of any news concerning
the purchase price.
One of the most important questions regarding the
purchase of the Railway is as to whether it will be done
by Japan or by "Manchukuo". The Soviets would probably
prefer that Japan be the purchaser but the latter evidently
wishes

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
the pupahasing to be done by its
that sale or the railmay to wWmich
the Boviete to recognize the independemde of
Im reply to a protest from China the Soviets
to the glee of the Japanese, that, as since Septes
the Chinese had not exercised any control over the
and had not been able to perform ber obligations,
no corresponding rights left in the enterprise. Accordim
to press reports the Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs
has intimated that recognition of "Wanchukuo" will follow
purchase of the railway by the latter. In view of the
Peiping agreement of 1924 in which it was agreed that the
future of the railway was to be decided by Russia and
China it would seem hat the Soviets would be obliged to
recognize "Manchukuo"Is inheritance of Chinese rights if
she wishes to negotiate for the sale of her interests.
It was reported in the press on May 24 that the Japanese
Cabinet had decided on a policy with regard to the purchase
of the railway. The decision, according to Rengo, was
"(1) That the Japanese Government assume the attitude
that it is not clear whehher the Soviet may rightly
claim part ownership of the Chinese Eastern Railway
and, in order to support this ambiguity, Japan point
out that at the time the Soviet Government effected
a rapprochement with the Chinese Government, the
former announced 1ts preparedness to abandon its
Chinese Lastern Railway rights.
"(2) That the Japanese Government concede the Soviets'
rights to exercise control over the Chinese Eastern
Railway as provided in the agreements of Peiping and
Mukden; and that therefore if the government of
Manchukuo transacts the proposed purchase of the line
it may be possible that it will only obtain the right
to control the railway;
n(3)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
on
wtw
"(z) That in the event of the purohase
Manchukuo the govéhment or Manohakue
purchase other concessions in its tor
owmed by the Soviet Union, ineluding
mining and lumbering;
"(4) That the price of the Chinese Eastern Tallmmy
the mode of payment be agreed upon through ne-
gotiations between Manchakuo and ths Boviet Unimm
but that Japanese representatives act as inter
agents. "
It is reported that the Japanese Government has
proposed that the negotiations for the purchase of Rusaian
interests in the railway be carried on at Tokyo. The
Japanese have reportedly suggested that a commission of
representatives of the three countries be formed to settle
the Chinese Eastern Railway question as well as all other
questions outstanding between Soviet Russia on the one side
and Japan and "Manchukuo" on the other.
(d) British Empire.
Until recent weeks there had been a noticeable
94
741
lack of popular feeling in Japan against Great Britain, con-
sidering the part which she has played in determining the
western attitude toward Japan during the last year and a
half. However, there has now been a marked change, brought
about by the commercial restrictions placed upon the im-
portation of Japanese goods into various parts of the British
Empire. The first step which excited the Japanese was the
abrogation of the thirty year old Indo-Japanese Commercial
Treaty, which was mentioned in the Monthly Political Report
for April. This was received by the Japanese as an act
deliberately unfriendly to their country.* Next, the British
Covernment wus blamed for Egypt's reising her duties on
cotton
Embarsy': despateh No. 395 of May 12, 1933.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
cotton yarn and tissue from Japan. The British Mabismy
in Tokyo found it advisable to issue a denial that
Britain had anything to do with Egypt's action. Thiraly
during the latter part of May it was announced that Grost
Britain had abrogated the Anglo-Japanese trade agreement
applicable to West Africa. All of these moves have resuited
in arousing in Japan's highly organized cotton industry a
feeling of animosity toward Great Britain.
Of the three markets where the new restrictions
have been placed upon Japanese products, India is the most
important one for Japan and energetic steps have been taken
to negotiate a new agreement covering that country. The
Japanese Ambassador in London has been carrying on conversa-
tions with the President of the British Board of Trade and
the Japanese Consul General at Calcutta has been ordered to
proceed to Simla and to make representations to the Indian
Government.
Prominent Japanese are suggesting that if order could
be restored in China Japanese goods would be absorbed there
and pressure on Indian and other markets would be relieved.
There is a possibility that the Japanese delegation to the
London economi confer nce will put forward a suggestion of this
character.
The Japanese contend that they have built up a market
in India during many years of effort and until last year
received in unnual excess of exports over imports in their
Indian trade. They dony the charge of dumping and claim
that
Embay: grm Ne. 1. May P4-noon.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
16
lower costs of produotion. This strengthens thoir
that Britain was animated by a political motive in abrogating
the Indo-Japanese agreement and the fact that this was ac-
companied by similar action in Egypt and West Africa deos not
tend to dissipate the suspicions. Articles have appeared in
the press denouncing Great Britain and the Asiatie Anti-
British League has been organized with several farmers!
organizations as a nucleus. This body declares its aim to
be to drive Britain from China, India, and all of Asia.
(e) Important Changes in the Japanese Foreign Offico.*
For many months the Spokesman for the Japanese
494.021
Foreign Office, Mr. Shiratori, has been a source of trouble.
for foreign diplomats in Tokyo. His apparent tactlessness
and his alliance with the younger chauvinistic elements
of the army have resulted in stirring up bad feeling on
more than one occasion. It now appears that his statements
to the press have been equally embarrassing to some of his
colleagues in the Japanese Government service. Such is the
interpretation placed upon the recent resignation of Mr.
Arita, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, followed two days
later by the announcement that Mr. Shiratori would be named
Minister to Sweden. It seem: that the Japanese diplomatic
fficers in the ficld have frequently had cause to protest
the actions of the Foreign Uffice Spokesman and the Vice
Minister has led the oppositlon to him.
Mr. Shiratori's
supporter: hove bee so powerfut, lowever, that he has been kept
on
Embarry's telepram No. . tay 16. 4 n.m. and

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
17
on longer than he otherwise would have been.
to one theory the Foreiga Minister rimally
the squabbling and decided to get rid of hie Spq
In order to do so he had to ramove the "leader or
opposition" also and the Vice Minister was sadrificed
Another theory is that the Vice Minister resigmed in
disgust, thinking that he could not defeat the Spokesman
but his successor refused to take up his new duties until
it was agreed that Mr. Shiratori should leave. hichoter
theory is correct the result is that the souree of the
trouble will be removed to Sweden.
The new Vice Minister is Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu,
former Minister to China, who was seriously wounded in the
bomb explosion in Shanghai last year and has become some-
thing of a national hero as a result. Mr. Eiji Amau, now
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy at Moscow will succeed
Mr. Shiratori as Foreign Office Spokesman.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
18
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) Mr. Tabahashi decides to remain.
On May 22 Finance Minister Takahashi anmnounned that
844.102
he did not intend to resign from his post, in spite or som
tinuous predictions that he would, and the Cabinet bms there-
fore taken a new lease on life. For several months it has
been common political gossip in Tokyo that Mr. Takahashi
would resign after the publication of the findings regarding
the incident of May 15, 1932. The report, which he never
denied until this month, was that his health was failing
and he wished to get out of office as soon as possible after
the major work of the present Cabinet was completed. As he
is the leeding financier in whom the country has confidence
and therefore one of the important members of the Government,
it was believed inevitable that the entire Cabinet would have
to resign with him. In fact, Mr. Takahashi's party, the
Seiyukai, which is the majority arty in the Diet, virtually
gave notice that it would cease to support the Government if
he were not in the Cabinet.
Mr. Takahashi undoubtedly has poor health and would
probably like to retire for personal reasons. However,
events following his pronouncement of May 22 indicate that
there has been something more behind it all. Immediately
after his statement was made it appeered that the Seiyukai
were very much disappointed in his decision. A party
meeting was held at which it was decided that support
woule be withdrawn from the Cabinet at the earliest possible
moment. Apparently the publie, in discussing the relations
between Mr. Takahashi and the Seiyukai, had confused the
115
the pruhab e effeet. The Seiyukai, instead
T.kahashl's presence in the Cabinet
highly

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
71
11
19
highly important, were evidently hoping to use him:
a pawn in their political machinations by whioh they
were trying to establish a purely Seiyukai Government.
The rumors which were current during the winter, and re
ported in the Monthly Politieal Reports for December and
January,that an agreement existed between the Premier.
and the Seiyukai that the Cabinet would resign after the
Diet session was over if it should receive the support
of that party during the sessions, apparontly were based
upon the Seiyukai's understanding of Mr. Takahashi's in-
tentions.
The Finance Minister's change of mind in May was
due probably to the representations of the Genro who
decided against a return to party government at the present
moment, to Mr. Takahashi's decision that he would no longer
be just a tool in the game of party politics, and to the
attitude of the Army. The last factor was probably the most
important. It is certain that Mr. Takahashi would not have
come to his decision, which he knew would prolong the life
of the prasent Cabinet, unless he was assured that the Army
wished it. Many believe that the military dictated the
action. Strength is iven to this opinion by rumors that
General Araki, the War Minister, and General Ugaki, the
Governor General of Chosen and a leader of a faction in the
Army, have composed their differences. The two leaders recently
had a meeting and it is runored that they decided to co-
operate in the tutur in order to strengthen the morale of
the Army. Previoualy, It had been understood that General
Ugaki.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
J
-20-
Premier and to use that post to break the power of Beneral
Araki. If the recent rumors are true the Army's pom
1s more firmly established than ever and a return to party
government would seem to be more remote.
The attitude of the Seiyukai since Mr. Takahashi's
announcement has not served to enhance the prestige of
political parties with the public. The motion of lack or
confidence in the Government which was passed at the party
meeting was based upon no concrete criticism of the present
Cabinet and failed to convince the public of the disinterest-
edness of the party leaders. Mr. Suzuki, the leader of the
Seiyukai, was offered a Cabinet post but declined it. The
Home Minister and the Minister of Education, both Seiyukai
members, are reported to have decided to remain at their
posts.
It cannot be said that the developments of the month
have exactly strengthened the political position of the
Cabinet but thay may h ve ensured its continuance in office .
Mr. Takahashi apparently is working on the budget for the
next fiscal year and the business leaders are happy at
his being in office. The War Minister has always been
friendly with him and the Army as a whole is apparently
supporting him. Many of the Seiyukai politicians are fuming
but unless something mexpected happens 1t seems that it
will be difficult to force the Cabinet out at present.
(b) The report on the assassination of Premier Inukai.
On May 17 the ban of censorship which has prohibited
the nuhileation of news coneerning the assussination of
. commor ly
 1ed the afrair of May 15, 1.32.
was

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
mas liffed and the Government's report or it
was relesed to the publie. It was originslly
make this publication two days earlier, on the
of the happening. Last minute protests of the
the Navy necessitated revisions, eliminationa,
sequent postponement. The final report did not faii to
1mplioate Army and Mavy officers but it mentioned no
of high ranking officers, and attributed the initiative to
civilians.
It will be remembered that the assassination of the
Premier followed the murders of ex-Finance Minister Inoure
and Baron Dan, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Mitsui interests. On May 15 Mr. Inukai, the Premier, as
assassinated in his official residence while the residences
of Count Makino, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, the Metro-
politan Police Board the Seiyukai headquarters, the Mitsu-
bishi Bank, and the Bank of Japan were attacked with ex-
plosives. At the same time civilian conspirators raided
the electric power stations in Tokyo attempting to throw
the city into darkness and confusion.
Immediately after the incident the police arrested
16 naval officers, 1l cadets of the military academy, and
21 civilians, all of whom were charged with complicity.
The service men were examined by Army and Navy authorities
while the civilians were placed in the hands of civilian
courts. It has been decided that ten of the naval officers
and all the army officers involved will be charged with
sedition and tried by Army and Navy court martials, while
the civilians will be tried in the locel courts under a
charge

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
一2
charge of homicide, attempted homicide, mnd violati
the explosive regulations.
The report published by the Government finds that
careful plans were made long in advance of the incidens èr
May 15. In fact, during February and March when Mr. Inom
and Baron Dan were assassinated by members of the so-call
Blood Brotherhood League and the latter were prevented by
being arrested from taking further direct action, those who
participated in the May 15 incident were making their plans
Treir motives lay in their dissatisfaction with the oxisting
state of things, political and economic. They believed that
the political and business leaders of the country were in-
terested only in self-aggrandisement and that the only way to
remedy conditions was to remove them. They planned to
assassinate Premier Inukai and Count Makino but the latter
was saved by not being at home on the day set. The report
does not state what the nextateps were to have been.
The publication of the information regarding this
incident caused a great sensation in Japan. The authorities
cannot fail to take some action against those implicated
if they wish to uphold any s emblance of law and order, not
to mention protecting their own lives in the future. However,
there is no denying that there is a feeling of sympathy
among the powerful military group and among the public
at large for the motives of those who committed the out-
rages. They occurred at a time when the country was very
much agitated over the Manchurian incident and when many
Japanese

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese believed that the civilian part of the Govermms
was not giving sufficient support to the military in thair
"glorious venture". The country was also suffering from
serious economic depression, especially in the country
districts. To the minds of many Japanese the remedy for
such evils lay only in the feudalistic tradition of diroet
action. The fact that this direct action was Lolleved by
the installation of a coalition government which backed the
military and by great improvement in the economic condition
of the country served to convince some elements of the publie
of the righteousness of the purpose and even the actions
of the conspirators.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
12
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
11.
GOVERNIENT FIMANCE:
(a) Budget for 1984.
Finance Minister Takahashi has announeed ta
press that he sees no hope of reducing expenditures dumins
the fiscal year 1934 and he advocates raising certain
in order to meet the increased expenses.
(b) Profits of Deposits Bureau..
The report of the Deposits Bureau for the last fiseal
year shows a profit of Yen 59,000,000 of which 43,000,000 wa
due to foreign exchange profits on money deposited abroad befor
the drop in the value of the yen.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
- 25 -
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Agrarian Problems*
Very little has been heard during recent morthe re-
garding conditions in the agricultural districts of Japan.
However, in many ways conditions are as bad as they were
8.94.41
last year when wide publicity was given to them in the Jape-
nese press. With rural debts increasing and the prices of
farmers' necessities rising faster than the price of farm
products, the Government has been giving a great deal of
attention to the country districts.
In the recent Diet session three laws were enacted to
assist in the solution of these problems. First, the Rice
Control Law, which becomes effective in November, empowers
the Government to buy and sell riee with the object of regulating
its price, Secondly, the Agrarian Debt Adjustment Association
Law provided for the establishment of agrarian debt adjust-
ment guilds to be established throughout the country for the
purpose of adjusting debts and advancing loans at low interest
rates from the state treasury to the 1imit of Yen 200,000,000.
Thirdly, the Agricultural Property Credit Law enables the
farmers and fishermen to raise loans on the security of
movable property, or their "tools of trade". These laws
and the other measures taken by the Government are not con-
sidered  all udequate to remedy the farmers' Ills a: their
debts are much out of proportion to the remedial measures
proposed.
(b)
301 May 11,1933.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.97)
- 26.-
(b) Japan's Oil Problems*.
Barly in May the Mining Bureau of the Japanese
Department of Commerce and Industry gave to the press
plans which it is considering for the control of the oll
industry and trade in Japan, - one providing for a govern
monopoly in oil and the other providing for control by
means of a licensing system which could be used to excludo
foreign importers of petroleum products and foreign refiners.
The Foreign Office stated that neither will be adopted im-
mediately. However, the foreign oil companies believe that
there is some reason to fear the eventual adoption of a system
of oil control which will drive them from this market and they
hope that the British or American Governments will bring
up the matter at the London Economic Conference with a vie
to ensuring to them a permanent position in Japan. It is
possible that the oil plans were released by the Japanese
Government at the present time in order to afford a trading
point at the conference.
(c) Exchange.
The yen rose during May from 23-3/8 to 24-1/8 cents.
This is generally attributed not to any change of conditions
In Japan but to a drop in the value of the dollar.
(d) Miscellaneous Economic Matters.
The Minister of Finance has authorized the Taiwan
Electric Com any and other power companies to buy foreign
n change o the extent of Yen 45,000, 000 for the purpose of
repurchasing
Embassy's telegram No. 94, May 8, 11 a.m.
and No. , May 11, 1 a.m.
mb y espateh No. 384 of May 11. 1935 and
M1.1955.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
lish parkets. This authori
entirely taken advantage of because of thw ride
ow York bond market.
The relative failure of the Government's att
inflate is shown by the fact that in spite of 
to the extent of Yan 850,000,000 during the last f1s
year, recently published figures reveml that there
increase in notes issued during the year.
(e) Effect upon Japan of China's tariff revisien.
The Japanese press expressed concern over the
announcement by China several months ago that she would
abrogate the Sino-Japanese Commercial Treaty. When the
abrogation took effect on May 15 there was little comment
in Japan. However, when on May 22 China raised her duties
there was considerable outcry here. According to press
reports the duties on the principal Japanese exports to
China were raised fifty per cent.
The JIJI pointed out in an editorial that China
is in need of funds to finance her military campaign against
Japan and further stated that Japan will not suffer as
much as some think. This newspaper said that Japanese
manufacturers long ago gave up hope of exporting to China
and instead established branch manufacturing plants there;
that Japan's exports to China have already suffered so much
as a result of the auti-Japanese boycott that there is
little advantage to be lost by the tariff increase.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTIVII OF AMRICAS CO
During the last eighteem months
in Japan have experienced serious difficultien
on their normal business. The National City
Terk was accused at the time or the reimposition of
gold embargo of helping to wreck Japanese finanee
later was accused of taking photographs for espicmage
purposes. The Socony-Vacuum Corporation is faced wit
movement to oust foreign oil companies from Japan and,
besides, has encountered trouble over the erection and
operation of its gasoline storage tank at Uozaki, near
Kobe. The Singer Sewing Machine Company had 1ts strike
last autumm. The Japan Steel Products Company was recontly
faced with a serious strike of its employees who demanded
that the American officials be ousted. The General Bloctric
Company has been the subject of hostile demonstrations.
Andrews and George Company, Incorporated, alleges that it
has been discriminated against by the navy purchasing bureau
because it is an American firm. The Ford Motor Company has
had its difficulties over sending trucks, cars, and supplies
to its North China market from Japan and has also been accused
of espionage. General Motors Japan, Limited, has encountered
serious difficulties in supplying its Chinese market from its
assembly plant in Japan. An analysis of these cases shows
that their difficulties have been due partly to an exaggerated
nationalism which at times becomes anti-foreign and, especially
anti-American . It is hrgely the result of the influence of
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 408 of May 22, 1933.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
in the situsti

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTIVITINS OF FOREICN COMS
11.
LABOR AND ENIGRATION:
1l.
MISCELLANBOUS:
of Thought
(a) Issue of Academic Freedom Raised in ky
University.
For a large part of the month of May academic
liberal circles in Japan were upset over the eharges
by the Minister of Education against Professer Yukitatsa
Takikawa, a member of the faculty of the Law College r
Imperial University. The professor was accused of being
radical as a result of the publication of a book to which the
authorities objected. The authorities of the university;
the faculty of the law college, and the students stood by
the professor. claiming that nothing contained in the book
could be considered radical. The Minister. of Education asked
for the resignation of the professor. He refused to submit
it and the other members of the law faculty stated that they
would resign if Professor Takikawa were ousted. In spite of
all this the Ministry of Education has decided to oust the
professor and it remains to be seen what his supporters
will do.
The incident has brought the question of academic
freedom of thought to the fore. The Government appears
to have gained its point but it is very significant that
sections of the press have supported the professor during
the dispute.
(b)

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
Ome form of atirring up mathusl
military projects has been to start ca
roups for domations to the Aray. Busimes 
to gain the favor of the Army wy donating meropl
villages throughout the country have donated ple
aireraft guns, helmets, and other pieces of oguips
Recently officials of the Department of Justice desided
contribute portions of their pay to the purchase of a pl
for the Army in Manchuria. There seems to be no dimimut
in numbers of people donating and the amounts donated.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
LIST OF DESPAFOHES SH
Bate
1y 2,
Practice of Medioine and Dentia
575
2, Japanese Floating Canneries.
576
3,
Japan's Cooperation with Other Nations aftor
Resignation from the League of Nations.
377
3,
Japanese Navy pamphlet on Mandated Islands:
378
Newspaper Attack on American Medical Missiomary
Institution.
379
5,
Address made by the Ambassador.
580
"10,
Oriental Consolidated Mining Company case.
381
Diplomatio Visa Report.
382
Monthly Political Report for April.
383
8,
Anti-American Propaganda in Japan.
384
* 11,
Japan's Oil Problems: Current Developments.
385
Socony-Vacuum Gasoline tank at Yozaki-machi.
386
Delivery of sealed parcel to Japanese Foreign Office.
387
"12,
International Geological Congress.
388
n12,
Anti-American Feeling; Case of Andrews & George Co.
389
10,
Employment of new Embassy Gardener.
390
"11,
Agrarian Legislation.
391
"11,
Japan's Oil Problems (Sup lementary information).
392
"18,
Liplom tic Visa Report.
393
" 12,
Air  avigation Requirements in Japan.
394
"12,
Occupation of American Lission Iroperty in China
by Japanese Military Forces.
395
12
Inco-Japanese Commercial Treaty.
396
legram  I condolence on earthcuake in California.
397
12,
essa es of Congratulations on occasion of
Inau uration f President Roosevelt.
6.8
" anchukuo" Legation in Tokyo.
il u inees in anchuria.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.95)
Date
401 May 24, Changes in Japanese Foreign Orrive
408
19, Revised Pages of Post Report:
403
22, Report from Consulate at Taihomu cone
Relations between Japan and the United
404
20, Diplomatic Visa Report.
405
22, Inventory Cards.
406
22,
Telegram of Congratulations on oocasion
inauguration of President Roosevelt.
407
22, International Geological Congress.
408
n
22, Obstacles to American business in Japan.
409
23, Reported plan to increase the production of
opium in Chosen.
410
Reported remarks unfriendly to the United Statos
made by the Japanese War Minister.
411
24, Japan's Oil Problems: Further Developments.
412
24, Laying of Keel of the U.S.S. HULL.
413
25, Japan-Ilanchukuo Treaty concerning the establishmont
of an Electrical Communication Company.
414
26, Certificate of illness of Mr. Dickover.
415
26, Diplomatic Visa Report.
416
26,
Taxation of Sungari Flour Mills.
417
tt
27，
Transmitting gifts of German Ambassador.
418
n
27,
Information concerning Theatres in the U. S.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
Daté
Subject
88
May 2,
1 p.m.
Death of Mr. Dowd.
80
3, noon.
Open Door policy of "Manah
90
5, 5 p.m.
Correction in Embassy's dasp
Japan's Oil Problems.
91
" 5, 7 p.m.
Visit of the U.S.S. HOuSTON to
92
" 5, 8 p.m.
Departure of Viscount Ishii for
95
" 6, 1l a.m.
Chinese Eastern Railway dispute.
94
" 8, 1l a.m.
Oid Monopoly in Japan.
95
" 9, 9 a.m.
Movement of Japanese troopa: through
96
" 9, noon.
Renewed Japanese offensive in North Chii
97
" 1l, 1l a.m.
Foreign Oil interests in Japan.
98
" 11, 2 p.m.
Visit of the U.S.S. HOUSTON to Japaa.
99
" 16, 4 p.m.
Resignation of Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
100
" 16, 5 p.m.
Telegram from Mr. Hayes re vouchers.
101
" 17, 8 a.m.
Japanese attitude towards the Economic
Conference.
102
" 18, 9 a.m.
From Consul General re Russia.
103
" 19, 1 p.m.
Japanese reaction to President Roosevelt's
aoneal for disarmament.
104
" 20, 1 n.m.
Intention of Japanese troops in China.
105
" 23, 8 p.m.
Ja  nese troops not to enter Peiping.
106
" 24, noon.
Incian Tariff question.
107
26,11m
Newspaper reports of first conversation
hetween te President and Viscount Ishii.
108
" 26, noon.
Call of "lenchukuo" Minister at the Embassy.
109
" 27, 11 a.m.
Departure of Mrs. Dowd for the U. S.
110
"81,
10 m. rivel e Ir. Lyon.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
C
RECI
10
Despatch No. 419.
Date: June 1, 1988
Bubject: Monthly Report on Conditigns in Japan
During the Month affmi4,bl933.
Summary:
The principal events in Japanese-American politiaal
activity during May were the departure of Japan's
representatives for Washington, their main concern
894.00R
at that time being the press reports of Americe!s
adherence to the idea of a consultative pact; the
apparent readiness of Viscount Ishii to promote at
Washington his idea of Japan being the "guardian.
of the peace of Asia"; Japan's ready acceptanco
of the President's proposal for a tariff truce; hor
hesitation about adhering to his appeal for dis-
armament and non-aggression; Japanese satisfaction at
the cardial reception given Viscount Ishii and Mr.
Fukai; the report of the War Minister's anti-
American statement at Kobe, which he denied; and
the pleasure of the Japanese officials at the pros-
pect of welcoming Admiral Taylor and the U.S.S.HOUSTON.
During the month of May Japan launched a new drive
into North China, which carried her troops almost to
Peiping before a truce was signed. It is reported to
be Japan's desire that an independent state be established
in North China. The Japanese Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs denied that "Manchukuo" would abandon the
policy of the Open Door. The first "Manchukuo" Minister
to Japan has arrived in Tokyo. Japan has answered the
Soviet note of protest over Japan's actions in connection
with the Chinese Eastern Railway. Now the Soviet offer to
sell the railway is being considered by Japan but the
latter apparently prefers that the purchase be made by
"Manchukuo" with the help of her guardian. The anti-
durping protective measures taken by various sections of
the British Empire have stirred up considerable anti-
British feeling in Japan. The resignation of Mr. Arita,
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the nomination of
Mr. Shiratori, former Foreign Office Spokesman, as Minister
to Sweden are very significant changes in the personnel
of the Foreign Office.
Mr. Takahashi's decision not to resign has revealed
that the Seiyukai Party is seeking some excuse to withdraw
ts support from the present coalition cabinet and to
establish

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
Summary
- 2-
establish another which it would complotaly
control. However, it appears that Mr. Takahash
supported by the Army, which is reported to hite
position than ever. The report on the assassimmiti
of Premier Inukai on May 15, 1932 has been publial
Younger officers of the Army and Navy and several
civilians will be indicted but no blame is placed
on any high-ranking officials.
Mr. Takahashi is working on the budget for
1934-5. The Deposits Bureau reports that it made
considerable profit out of the drop in the value of the
yen during 1932.
The Government is still faced with bad conditions
in the country districts. The Mining Bureau of the
Department of Commerce and Industry has given to the press
two tentative plans for the eventual control of the oil
industry in Japan. There has been some anxiety among
Japanese manufacturers over the abrogation by China
of her commercial treaty with Japan but it is believed
that it will not seriously affect Japan.
American firms have experienced many difficulties
in carrying on their normal business in Japan as a result
of the international situation during the last eighteen
months, but considerable improvement has been noted in
recent weeks.
Educational circles in Japan have recently been
aroused over the dispute between the Minister of Education
and a professor of law t the Kyoto Imperial University.
The latter is accused of being a radical and will be
ousted from his position. However, he is supported by the
university faculty and students, as well as by sections
of the press.
There has been no diminution in the donations of
equi ment to the Army by business men and civilian organi-
zations.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
Jni 1.1933.
Tokyo's monthly report for May
ail the msterial has been previously
reoclyed im the Division.
Pagee 18 to 20 deel with the
depiston of the Finance Minister
Mr Takahashi, to remain in office.
Thim decision has disappointed his
polltieel party, the Seiyukai, whioh
was apparently hoping to come into
power following his threatened resig-
nation: The Finance Minister's
decrsion not to resign was due probebly
to representations of the Genro who
decided against e return to party
government at the present moment, to
Mr. Takahashi's deoision that he
would no longer be just a tool in
the game of party politios, and to
the attitude or the Army. Apparently
he was assured shat the Army desired
him to retain his office, There are
rumors that General Araki, and General
Ugaki, the Go:rnor General of Chosen,
have composed their differences
although the latter was suppoaed to
have ambitions to become Prime Minister.
Ir

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
If these rumore are true, the Armys
power is more firmly estabiiaked then
ever ane e betarn to party govarnment
antanos the prestige of political
position of. the Chbinet may not have
besn strengthened by Takahashi's
deeision but its oontinuance-in offioe
may have been ensured. Mr. Takahashi's
decision pleeses busineas leaders and,
apperently, the Army.
Page 24. The Finance Minister has
informed the press that he sees no hope
of redueing expenditures during the
fiseal year of l934 and advocates raising
certaim taxes to meet inoreased expenses,
LES:KC

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.91)
During the Month of May, 1933.
y
the prineipal events in Jepanese-American politioal
astimity durins May were the departur of J pan's
repeesentatives for Washington, their main concoem
at that time being the press reports of America's
adherenee to the idea of a consultative pact; the
apparent resdiness of viscount Ishii to promote at
Washingtom his idee of Japan being the "guurdian
of the pease of Asia"; J:pan!: re dy acceptance
of the Presideat's proposal for a turiff truces hem
armamet and mon-gression; J p ese satisfactiom at
the raal recepti n give. Viscount Ishii nd .
Fakai the report of the Aar Linister's onti-
Amoriean state ent :t be, w ien he anled; and
the pleaaure f the Jepanese frieisls et the pros
into Morth Chint, which curried her tr uns lmost to
Peiping befo truce w sigheu. It is reported 
be Japem!s desire th-t n indepandent state be establ
Afraire denied that "nchukuo" oul abandon the
pelioy of the . o r. ihe first wiunchukuo" Winis
to Japan has ar ived in Tokyo. Japan has nswered the
Soviet note of protest v r Jipan's oti ns in comect
with the Chinese r:  tern Hoilway. Now the Soviet offer
sell the rallway s sing c n icered by J: pan but the
"Memehmkuo" with he heiln of he" gurrdian. The enti-
the Bpitish mpire -vo stirred up considerable anti-
Britimm feelin!: in J nan. The resignation of Mr. Arita,
Vice Mimister  oreisn nffairs, nd the nomination of
. Mairateri, for er Foreign uf ice Suokesman, as Minister
to Swedem are viry significant cnenges in the personnel
of the Foreign uffice.
Mr. Takahashi's declsion not to resim has revealed
its smppere from the oresent coulition cabinet and to
-stablish

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.95)
Sammary
-2-
establish another which it would completely
control. However, it appears that Mr. Takahes
supported hy the Army, which is raported to have
composed its internal dissensions and is im a 
position than ever. The report on the aseesat
of Premier Inuka1 on May 15, 193g has besn pu
Younger officers of the Army and Mavy and seyer
on any high-ranking officials.
Mr. T kahashi is workinz on the budget for
1934-5. The Deposits Bureau reports that it mado
considerable profit out of the drop in the value of the
yon during 1932.
The Government is still fuced with bad conditioms
in the country districts. The Mining Bureau of the
Department of Commerce and Industry has given te the prees
two tentative plans fer the eventual control of the oll
industry in Japan. There has been some anxiety among
Japanese manufacturers over the ebrogaticn by Chine
of her commercial treaty with Japan but it is believed
thet it will not seriously &ffect Jpan.
American firms  ve experienced many difficulties
in carrying on th ir normal business in Japan as a rosult
of the international situst on during the lest eightem
months, but consider ble improvement has been noted in
recent we ks.
hducationel circler in J pan h: ve rece tly been
uroused ver the dis ute between the Minister of Education
and a professor of law t the Kyoto Imperial University.
The latter is accused of being  r dicul nd will be
vsted fron his position. However, he is suoported by the
university faculty nd st dents,  w-ll as by suetions
ot the or ss.
There  s be no cimtrution in the donations of
ecui mon
h b b ine  en nd eivilian organi
zgtions.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo, Juae 1, 1988.
No. 419,
Bubjeets
Kanthly Renurt an Sonditipne a Lanan
during the Yonth of Bay, 1osn.
The Bonorable
The Beeretary of State,
Washington.
81rs
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 98
2/
of July 8, 196, I transmit herewith the Embassy's monthly
report on conditions in Juoan for the month of May, l933.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report No. 80.
Joseph C. Grew.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
" Consulate Genral, Shanghai.
7
" Coneul te Generrl. Mukden.
Consulate Ceneral, Harbin.
In quadruplieate  the Dapartment.
800-J.pan
SWSIF
the signed onigi-
nat

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.96)
I. POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) The dapurture of Viseount Ishii and Mr.
Fukai.
(b) Japanese policy et Washington........
2.5
(c) The American proposal for a tariff truce..5,4
(d) Japanese reaction to American President's
World Peace Appeal.
.4,5,6
(e) Japanese reaction to Viscount Ishii's
conversations.
..8,
(f) Genoral Arakd's outburst at Kobe ........ 6,7,
(g) Preparations for the reception of Admiral
Taylor and the U.S.s. HousTON.
7,
II.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
8,9,
(b) "Manchukuo".
10,
(c) The Chinese Eastern Railway Problem.....
10,11,12,13,1
(d) British Empire.
14,15,16
(e) Important changes in the Japanese Foreim
office....
16,17
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
r. Takahashi decides to remain........
18,19,20
(b)
The report on the assassination of Premier
Inukai..
20,21,22,28
Iv.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
N11.
v.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) Budget for 1984.
24,
24
VI.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
Index(8)
VI. GENERAL ECONONIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Agrapian Problems....
(b) Japan's oil problems..
26,
(c) Exchange.....
26,
(d) Miseellaneous.Eeonomic Matters......
28,27
(e) Effoot upon Japan of China's tariff
revision...
27,
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Difficulties experienced by american firms
in doing business in Japan......
28,29
VIII.
ACTIVITIS OF FOHEIGN CON.ERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nil.
IX.
ABOR AND YTGNATIN:
Nil.
x.
MSCELLANEOUS:
() Issue of Acedemic Freedor of Thought
Kaised in kyoto university.......
...30,
() Donations  the Jupanese Army......
31.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.83)
AEPORI ON CONDITIONE II JABAR
DUBING THK MONTH OF MAX, LANE.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.93)
at Japen's represemtativee fo
péenlation regarding their instsmetiom
prepesal fer & tarifr truse, President Reesevelt's
for disarmament, and Viscont Ishii's cod
the President. Other incidents affecting relatioms
between the two countries were Snrel Ara cut
at Koke and the preparations for the receptio of ml
Tayler and the U.B.s.HOUsTON.
(a) The Peparture of Vizcount Iahii and Mra Fakal.
Viscount Ighii and Mr. Eigo Pukai, Japan's twe
principal representatives in the preliminary conyersatimms
at Washington and at the London Economic Conferanee, Lefs
Yokahama on May 4 and arrived in Washington May 28.* Mr.
Chokiuro Kadono, technical adviser and representative of the
Japanese commercial interests, departed on May 13 for
Washington via Vancouver.
At the time of Viscount Ishii's departure his inter-
views with the press indicated that his prineipal concem
regarding the Washington negotiations was fear of the
effects upon Japan of America's apparent conversion to
the ides of a consultative pact. He told the newspapermen
 Telegram No. 99, May 5- 8 p.m.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.91)
formation reganétas this natter came frem the pom
ha tas antons to hear more when he should arvi 
United Boates.
Véseomnt Ighii being the senior delegate, his
staete were sien the renter blieit h
feelins was that political matters would be more iaporess
in tke diseussions than economie omes.
(b) Lanase noliey at Washingt."
Prier to the departure of Japam's represatatives 
Washingten there were many conferences betweum the membare
of the various government departments during which a gomeral
poliey was outlined. Apparently, no constructive propesats
were formalated but it was desided to consider any proposals
mhich might be advantageous to Japam.
It is reported that the Japanese do not favor a
consultetive pact which wight cause Japan to be tormed an
aggressor and they are not ready to disarm except under con-
ditions hardly acceptable to Europe and America. Via-
count Ishii undoubtedly wishes to obtain recognition for
Japan as the "guardian of the peace of Asia" and, in the
political field, will do everything possible to bring
about the exclusion of the western Powers from partici-
pation in the wettlemont of Chinese-Japanese difficulties.
in
* Embasay's telegram No. 101, May 17, 8 a.m.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.95)
the yue at ite fomer lavel with releee to the
It Is wadarstood that tay are willing to sooperate
arferts to suise warld price levals sd to sesre e
sntemational movement of capital, alse, that thw will
attempt to do away with the restrietlons plased m
Japanese trade besause of the depresiatiem of the yen ms
will favor bilateral or mltilateral reciprosal tariff
conventions, rather than a general flat reductiom in
tariff rates.
Gemerally speaking Japan's attitude at Washingtom
and at Londom has been expected to be reserved and negatives
rather than constructive and positive. There is a gemeral
feeling among the Japanese that their country has been ont-
manoeuvred in past international conferemees. They feel
too
that Jepan's representatives have been willing to agree to
the proposals of other nations. Furthermore, they new
suspect that the other natins are combining against Japan.
Her present representatives sbroad can therefore be ex-
pected to move carefully and to agres to little that
cannot be represented to the military as distinctly ad-
vantageous to their country.
(c) The American proposal for a tariff truce.
President Roosevelt's propomal for & tarirr truce
pending the termination of the world economic conference
was accepted by Japan almost immediately. The note of
acceptance w. s not published but according to the press
Japan

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.92)
riakt to fertid the impertation of ahipa.
trmse preposal is especialiy adventegeess to ap
her pertations have lately bem subeoted y othed
ries to may mesures imed to cos  
presiation of the yem.
(a)
Japansse reaatiom to Amsrieam Premidentts
President Roosevelt's appeal for disarmamis
and non-aggression made a deep impressiom in Japemese
official cireles where the opinim is gaining gremd that
the past tandeney to igmore the opinioms and wishes of
other nations is in part the cause of ecomomie reprisals
such as the recent abrogation of trade agreements by parts
of the British Eapire.* However, this does not mean that
Japan will adhere wholeheartedly to the President's pre-
posals if they contravene what the leaders consider are
her vital policies. As mentioned elsewhere in this report,
there is an equally strong feoling that the Japanese Govern-
ment has in the past agreed t too many proposals without
c nsidering their meaning and implieations. That part
of the President's proposals which had to do with the
MacDonald Disarmament Plan is certainly not in accord with
Jepan's idees. It is belleved that she would never agtee
to the principle that signatory states can designate or
d0f1ne
Embassy's telegram No. 103, May 19- 1 p.m.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.95)
 yoted  ayin that Japen would assent to
the Presiemat's proposal if the warld weuld
she Great Wall to be the northern boundary of chime.
implicatione of such a suggestion are obvious. 
Presidentts proposals were givem as the impelling reasoms
Japam would be afforded a graceful exit from whot may beeoms
an embarrassing situation. However, it is not sertais thes
the Japsnese militarists are ready to withdraw from the
Peiping distriet. Although their position is more or
less embarrassing from the viewpoint of their relations
with the Powers, yet the policy which they are trying to pursus
in Sorth China m: y cause them to be tempted to hold their
present position for the time being.
The Japanese press has been extremely cautious in its
comments on the Presid nt's proposals. The newspapers praise
the spirit but point ut that though the prineiples of
disarmument and non-asression y be policable in Europe
the situation in the Far East is different. The tome of the
press has given rise to the opinion among many that Japan
will ussent tothe Prasident's suggestion in princtple but
attach reservations which qualify, or even nullify, it.
A

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
mibléet master of Viscsmt Iahilts comv
Presidemt Roosevelt, little em ba caid rogerdins
nase resstion. However, it should be mentioned that
prees was rall of ascounts of happemines in Tashingten
and the apperent suscess and sordiality that marked she
talks was greeted with satiafaction by the aditerial
writers. The press has hafled Ishiits receptiam asa
sign of increesing friendlinees and understandins between
the two countries. The report that the Unised States
would mot let Japan's stand in Manchuris bloek the efforts
of the economie conference to oome to an agreement was
taken to mean that America had accepted the fait accompli
in Manchuria. Two Japanese newspapers published despatches
from their Washington correspondents on May 15 to the
effect that at the first conversations the Presideat hinted
that if Japan would cease military operations in North
China and would support the disarmament proposals the United
States would abandon the so-called "Stimson Doetrine of
Non-recognition of Manchukuo".* However, nothing more has be
heard of this rumor.
(r) General Araki's outburst at Kobe.
Two Kobe newspepers of May 10 and 11 reported a speech
of
外
Embassy's telegram No. 107, May 28- 11 a.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 410, May 24, 1933.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.90)
tr
ion was requested by the Eabeny
axiee. the War Minister replted that he had
temperenseualy and had beam misgoted. As t
repart had not been siven esensive pablieity the 
met earried further.
Preparations for ths receptiom of Admiral
The ammouneement that Admiral Montgomery M. Taykar
Commander-in-Chief of the Uaited States Astatie Flest, would
visit Japan on his flagship early in Jume evoked a mmm e
sponse from Japanese officials. The welsome aedorted the
Japanese training ship during its recent visit to ths west
coast of the United States made a good impression in Japa-
nese naval circles. However, more impertant than this is
the feeling that Admiral Taylor rendered a great service
to the Japanese during the Bhanghai incident last year and
they are very anxious to show him some attention before his
return to the Uuited States.
1 p.m. and No. 98.
Smbassy
telegrum No. 91, M y
Kay 11,

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
uL!gD
Nogetations for pesse appesed to b 
s reper that the Chinese had ap
atter to him and asked him to at as mdit.
appeared te he some hope thet the tnion bate thet
mat lat long, or, it might be more correst  
peeramees had been deseptive. On May 6 the Japanese
lagaebed a new snd ualimited offensive. In eaplmaticn
t Ewantung Aray 1ssued a statement that the Chinape h
greatly preaumed upen the Japanese withdrawal and waile
proposing an armistice on the one hand they had beem
harassing the Japanese troops continuously. It soon ap-
poared that the Japanese had discontinued their polioy of
advancing and then withdrawing and were aiming so mdvense
far into North China, possibly to Peiping and Tientsin, with
the object of being eble to diotate peace to the Chinese.*
On May 20 the Japanese Staff Office stated that the
Japaness trcups were within 25 miles of Peiping on the north
and east but that occupation of the city would probably not
be necessary. * On the 23rd the press announced that the
troops were within two miles of Peiping and that the Japanese
* Embassy's telegram No. 96, May 9, Noon.
w* Embassy's telegram No. 104, May 20, 1 p.m.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.91)
hs
gesiattoms weze in progress for a md reemet
reed il ay . The apeese hat
es s the rast of direet a
the frtherance of their desire to deal ale 
withthehimese.
In cannection with the Japanese aftance izte Werth
thine and the signing af the truce, thare hame been mamy
reports that an independent state would be formed in that
district, not lving allegianee to Nanking. Some sections
of the Japanese are undoubtedly desirous of this and the
wish perhaps is father to the thought. If the power of
Chiang Ka1-shek in North China should dearease to any
extent the Japanese might have little diffieulty in
setting up a regime friendly to them. In this connection
1t might be significant to note that the Tokye pepers of
May S1 reported the arrival at Moji of Major General Pae
Kun, a staff officer of Marshall Wu Pei-fu, who stated that
the people in the Peiping-Tientsin district welcomed the
Japanese treops and wished to establish a central govern-
ment with Jspanese support which would save them from miarule.
 Embassy's telegram No. 105, May 23- 8 p..

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.92)
mob bad
It to  ly that E. o 
putharity and that the Opem Doar would be strietly
Marly in May the first "Manchakme" Mintster
Mr. Ting Mhih-yean, arrived in Tokyo. Bis start comaing
of the Third Seeretaries appear to be Japaness subjoets d
not "Manchukuo" citisens. **
(c) The Chiness Eastern Bailway Problema
The month of May opened with seme signs of appresshing
trouble between Soviet Russia and Japan over the Chinese
Eastern Rallway. Some people attributed the withdrawal of
the Japanese troops from the district south of the Great
Wall at the end of April to Japanese anxiety over the
situation in North Manchuria. However, this was not a wide-
spread opinion and the movement southward again toward Peiping
dispelled fears of this kind.
As intimated in the Monthly Political Report for April
it 1s belleved that the Chinese Eastern Railway dispate
was initiated by "Wanchukuo" offieials who failed to take
cogn1sang
*Embassy's telegram No. 89, May 8, Noon.
**Embassy's despatch No. 398 of May 18, 1933.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.92)
 volve Ja Ter a  L
It the atne" ofricials had goten thety surdi
inte serlens dáfficulties but with the Soviet preposed
to sell Rasdan interests in the Railmay, whieh is dis
sussed below, tension deareased and all fears of immediat
wer disappeared.
The Japanese reply to the Boviet note of April 10
was sent on May 22 and was published on May 27. Aecordins
to the English translation issued to the press it was a
strongly worded documemt. It denied that any Japanese actie
in Manchuria had been dirested against the Soviets ar their
interests. It stated that some of the fasts enumerated
by the Soviet Government concerned the "Manchukuo" regime
and that the Japanese Government had nothing to do th them.
Regarding the transportation charges for Japanese troops
the note stated that an agreement had virtually been reached
to make a b0% discount from the general charges and that
there was no basis for the charge that the Imperial Army
had purposely dalayed the negotiations. The note admitted
that
* Embeasy's Telegram No. 93, May 6, 1l a.m.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.90)
est0gos
eere or prede for the seviete' harise 
adsinene had beam tartured by Japemese troep
The shove mmtienel Jupanese reply to the Soviet
aroused, however, little interest in vies ef ether
dévalepmente sarlier in the month. For some tiee these
heve been ramers that the purpese behind many of Sevide
massia's aotions in Manehmria has been to sell her interest
in the Chinese Eastern Railway. Bow lens she has desired
this is not knom and possibly she does net really desire it
new. However, on May 6 the Japnese Foreim Office eonfirmed
the reports that the Soviets had offered to sell. Some state
that the offer was made just in order to ease the situatiom
caused by the dispute over the rolling stoek. Howeve that
may be, the offer has been taken seriously in Japan and it
is reported that negotiations are under way. è press ban
has been placed on the publication of any news concerning
the purchase price.
One of the most important questions regarding the
purchase of the Hailway is as to whether it will be done
by Japan or by "Manahakuo". The Soviets would probably
prefer that Japan be the purchaser but the latter evidently
wishes

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
 t the Jaes, th 
to preas regorte the Soviet Cosniasar fer Poed
Pesying agreeeent of loss in which it was agrend thet
future of the zailmay was to be decided by Rapsía and
Chine it woald seem hat the Seviets would be obliged t
recognise "Manchmkuo"(s inheritance of Chinese rights if
she wishes to negotiate for the sale of her interests.
It was reported in the press on May 24 that the Japanese
Cabinet had decided on a poliey with regard to the purahase
of the railway. The decision, according to Renge, was
"(1) That the Japanese Government assume the attitase
that it is not clear whekher the Boviet may rightly
claim part cwmership of the Chinese Eastegm Rallway
and, in orcer to support this ambiguity, Japam point
out that at the time the Soviet Government effeated
a rapprochement with the Chinese Government, the
former announced its preparedness to abandon its
Chinese Lastern Railway rights.
"(2) That the Japanese Government coneede the Sovieta!
rights to exercise control over the Chinese Bastern
Railway as provided in the agfeements of Peiping and
kukden; and that therefore if the governmmat of
Menchukuo transacts the propozed purchase of the line
it may be possible that it will cmly obtain the right
to control the railway;
(3)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
-14
mining msd lusberings
(4) That the priee of the Chinese astere Bailmay 
agents."
It is reported that the Japanese Gevernment has
proposed that the negotiations for the puraksse of massiam
interests in the railway be carried on at Tokyo. The
Japanese have reportedly suggested that a commissiem of
pepresentatives of the three countries be formed to settle
the Chinese Eastern Railway question as well as all other
questions outstanding between Soviet Russia on the one side
and Japan and "Uanchukuo" on the other.
(d) British Empire.
Until recent weeks there had been a noticeabl
lack of popular feeling in J pan ga nst Great Britain, con-
sidering the part which she hes played in determining the
western attitude toward Japan during the last year and a
half. However, there has now been a marked change, brought
about by the commercial restrictions laced upon the im-
portation f Japanese goods into various parts of the British
Empire. The first step which excited the Japanese was the
abrogation of the thirty year old Indo-Japanese Commercial
Treaty, which was mentioned in the Monthly Political Report
for April. This was recelved by the Japanese s an act
deliberately unfriendly to their country. Next, the British
Government w s blemed for Bgypt's r ising her duties on
cotton
Embassy! de te

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.92)
pllble to Wast atriee. A11 of these mer ave
n aromstas La dap's highly rganiie tem ta
twaling of animesity tomard Great Dritatm.
of the three markets where the new restristéns
have been placed upom J panese products, Imtia is the mosk
impertant one for Japam and emergetie steps have beem taksm
to negotiate a new agreememt covering that courtry. The
Japanese Ambassador in London has been carrying em eemteras-
tiens with the President of the British Beard of Trade and
the Japanese Consul General at Calcutta has been ordered to
proceed to Simla and to make representations to the Indim
Government.
Prominent Japanese are suggesting that if order could
be restored in China Japanese goods would be absorbed there
and pressure on Indian nd other markets would be relicved.
There is  possibility that the Japanese delegation to the
London econowic conference will put forward a suggestion of this
character.
The Japanese contend that they have built up a merket
in India during many years of effor: and until last year
received n unnuel excess of exports over imports in their
Indian trade. They deny the charge of dumping and claim
that
Embassyis t legr No. 106, may 24-noon.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.94)
-1-
thas they ean wedersell competitors beemse of thndr
lemer eests of production. This strengthems their belist
the adoJapanese agreement and the fact that this was a
sompanied by sixilar action in Egypt and West Afriea dees t
tand to dissipate the suspicions. Artieles have appeared is
the press denouncing Great Britain and the Asiatie Aati-
British League has been organized with several farmers'
organizations as a nucleus. This body declares its aim to
be to drive Britain from China, India, and all of Asia.
(0) Important Changes in the Japanese Pareim Ofrica.*
For many months the Spokesman for the Japanese
Foreigm Office, Mr. Shiratori, has been a source of trouble
for foreign diplomats in Tokyo. His apparent tactlessness
and his allianc with the younger chauvinistic elements
of the army h ve resulted in stirring up bad feeling on
more than one occasion. It now appears that his statements
to the press have been equally embarrassing to some of his
colleagues in the J p ese Government service. Such is the
interpr-tation pl ced upen the recent rasignation of Mr.
Arita, Vice Winister or For in Affairs, followed two day
later by the an o mcement that Mr. Shiratori would be named
Minister to Sweden. It se m that the Japanese diplomatio
officers in the field h ve frequently had cause to protest
the actions of the Foreign ffice Spokesman end the Vice
minister hs led th momnsition to him.
Mr. Shir: tori's
supoortersv be
werfut however, thet he has been kept
on
Eabr ssy' telegr
nd

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.91)
-7
Langer the otheraise would have ben. Aesett
to me theery the Pereige Minister finally had mengh at
the saabbling and desided to get rid of his Speke
In onder to do so he het to ramove the "leeder of the
eppositiam" also and ths Vice Kinister was sacrifieed.
Amother theory is that the Vise Minister resigmed in
disgast, thinking that he could not defeat the Spekesmen,
but mis saceessor rafused to take mp his new duties wmtil
Is was agreed that Mr. Shiratori should leave. Whiehever
theary is correet the result is that the souree of the
tromble will be ramoved to Sweden.
The new Vice Minister is Mr. Hamora Shigemitm,
former Minister to Chine, who was seriously wounded im the
bomb explosion in Shanghai last year and has become some-
thing of s national hero s & result. Mr. Eiji Amau, now
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy et Moscow will succeed
Mr. Shiratori as Foreign Ofrice Spokeseun.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
-18-
I1x.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFTAIRS:
(a) Mr. atakaski decidsa ta remaé.
Oa May £? Pinance Minister Takaheski anioumeed tht
he did net fatand to resigm from his post, in spite af com
tinnous predietions that he would, and the Cabinet has there
fore taken a new lease on life. For severel months it has:
been common political gossip in Tokyo that Mr. Takahashi
would resign after the publication of the findings regarding
the incident of May 15, 1932. The report, whieh he neter
denied until this month, was that his bealth was failing
and he wished to get out of office as soon as possible after
the major work of the present Cabinet was completed. As he
1s the leadimg financier in whom the country has confidence
and therefore one of the important members of the Government,
it was believed inevitable that the ntire Cabinet would heve
to resign with him. In fact, Mr. Takahashi's party, the
Seiyuka1, which 1s the majority arty in the Diet, virtually
gave notice that it wo 1d cease to support the Government if
he were not in the Cabinet.
Mr. T kohashi undoubtedly h s pour health end would
probably lik to retire for personal reasons. However,
events f llowing is ronouncement of May 22 indicate that
there has been something more behind it 1l Imrediately
fter his st toment was m de 1t ap e red that the Seiyukai
were v ry uch vie meinted in his decision. A perty
meetin we el  which it was decided that sup ort
 l be vithdraw rom the Cebinet at the earliest possible
ment. A rently n public, in discussing the relati ns
between. T kehashi and the Seiyukai, had confused the
it t b ul effect. The eiyukai, Instead
resence in the C b.net
hi by

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
and the seiyakai that the Cabinet weald sesign after the
33
Diet sessiom was over if it shonld reseive the seyport
of that party during the sessions, apparántly ware bes
upen the Beiyukai's understanding of Mr. Takabasht's L
tomtions.
The Finanee Minister's change of mind in May was
dae probably to the representations of the Gemre tho
decided against a return to party government at the present
moment, to Mr. Takahashi's decision that be would ne lomger
be just a tool in the game of party polities, and to the
attitude of the Army. The last faetor was probably the most
important. It is certain that Mr. Takahashi would not have
come to his decision, which he knew would prolong the life
of the present Cabinet, unless he was assured that the Army
wished it. Wany believe th t the military dictated the
action. Strength is iven to this opinion by rumors that
General Araki, the War Minista, nd General Ugaki, the
Governor General of Chosst nd - leader of & faction in the
Army, have composed their differences. The two leaders recently
had a meeting nd it is rumored that they decided to co-
operate in the future in order to stren then the worale of
the Army. Provi usly, it bad been understoud that Generel
Ugak1.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.93)
一
Frter and to ase that post to break the poua a 
Ara. If the reeant resers are true the Anay's yene
is aere firmly established then ever and a retarn to party
government would seem to be more remote.
The attituds of the Beiyukai since Mr. Takabaski's
amoumeememt has met served to enhance the prestige of
politiaml parties with the publie. The motion of lack ef
confidence in the Governnent which was passed at the party
meeting was based upon no concrete criticism of the presemt
Cabinet and failed to convinee the public of the disinterest
odness of the party leaders. Mr. Susuki, the leader of the
seiyukai, was offered a Cabinet post but declined it. The
Home Minister and the Minister of Edueation, both Seiyukai
members, sre reported to have decièed to remain at their
posts.
It cannot be said that the developments of the month
have exactly strengthened the political position of the
Cabinet but thay may h ve ensured its continuance in offiee.
Mr. Takahashi apparently is working on the budget for the
next fiscal year end the business leaders are happy at
his being in office. The ar Winister hes always been
friendly with him and the Army as a whole is apparently
supporting him. Many of the Seiyukai politicians cre fuming
but unless something unexpected heppens it seems that it
will be difficult t force the Cabinet out at present.
(b) The report on the essassination of Premier Inukai.
On May 17 the ban of censorship which has prohibited
the publication of news c ncernin the assassinstion of
Premier Truke. e mly c teo toe rr1 of May 15, 13e.
WSS

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.91)
pie postpemement. The fiaal report dld set tail te
saplnte Ad y tes  itntt 
hish rin offiets, and atebuted iiatre
ivins.
It will be remeshered that the assasainatiee of the
Premder followed the mmrders of ex-Fisanee Misistee Iaonge
and Baron Den, Chairman of the Board of Diredtors of the
Mitsui interests. On May 15 Mr. Immkai, the Premier, mas
assassinated in his official residense while the residenees
of Count Makimo, Lord Kesper of the Privy Seal, the Metro-
politan Polioe Board the Beiyukai headquarters, the Mitsu-
bishi Bank, and the Bank of Japan were attacked with 
plosives. At the same time civilian conspirators raided
the electric power stations in Tokyo attempting to throw
the city into darkne:s and confusion.
Immediately fter the incident the police arrested
16 naval officers, 11 cadets of the military academy, and
£l civilians, Il of whom were charged with complicity.
The service men were examined by Army and Navy authorities
while the civilians were plsced in the hands of civilian
courts. It has been decided that ten of the naval officers
and all the army officers involved will be charged with
sedition and tried by Army and Navy court martisls, while
the civiliens will be tried in the local courts under a
charg

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.94)
shssse ef homicide, attempted homicide, and vielatien of
the emplosive regulasions.
The report published by the Govaramemt finds that
seratul plems were mede long in advanee of the incident of
May Xs. In fact, during February and March when Mx. Inouye
and Baren Ben were assassinated by members of the so-called
Blood Brotherhood League and the latter were prevented by
being arrested from taking further direct action, those who
participated in the May 15 incident were making their plans.
Their motives lay in their dissatisfaction with the existing
state of things, political and economic. They believed that
the political and business leaders of the country were in-
terested only in self-uggrandisement and that the only way to
remedy conditions was to remove them. They planned to
assassinate Premier Inukai und Count dakino but the latter
was saved by not being at home on the day set. The report
does not state what the n xt steps were to have been.
The publication of the infomation regarding this
incident caused a gres: sensation in Japan. The authoritie
cannot fail to take some ction gainst those imolicated
1f they wish to uphol ny emblance of Law and order, not
to mention rot ctinr their  Lives in the future. However,
there 1s n dinyin th: there is feeling of sympathy
among the poverrul milit ry grou and among the publie
at large for the motives f those h cormitied the ut-
rages. they rec
ttme len the country us very
ch agit tee over the nehurian laeident and when many
JDanose

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.86)
gl . h e    e
se evils ls aly in the fendalistle treditien of dires
metls. The fact that this direet aotiom wes foktered y
the amstallation of a coalition government whish basked the
militasy and by great improvement in the ccomomde conditiem
of the contry served to convince some slememts of  publie
of the rightecusness of the purpose and even the etions
of the conspirators.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.91)
GOUREE OF LEGIELIYION:
13.
GOVERNNENT FINANCE:
(a) _
Finamee Minister Takakashi has announced to the
prass that he sees no hope of reducing expenditures tering
the fiseal year l934 and he advocates raising sertain taxes
in order to meet the increased expenses.
(b) Profite of Depasits Durem..
The report of the Deposits Bureau for the last fiseal
year shows a profit of Yan 59,000,000 of which 43,000,000 mas
due to foreim exchange profits un money deposited abroad before
the drop in the value of the yen.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.91)
GENEDAL BORNONTO AND FENANCTAL CORDITICHEDS
7
() Aa Ioblm
Tery listle has been heard during reont months s
ending nditions in the agricultural districts of Jape
Moweyer, in many ways conditions ere as bad as they wass
Last year when wide publicity was given to them in the Japhs
meme press. With rural debts inoreasing and the priees of
farmers' necessities rising faster than the price of farm
produets, the Government has been giving a great deal of
attention to the country distriets.
In the recent Diet session three laws were emacted to
assist in the solution of these problems. First, the Riee
Control Law, which becomes effective in November, empowers
the Government to buy and sell ri ce with the objeet of regulatimg
its price. Secondly, the Agrarian Debt Adjustment Association
Law provided for the establishmant of agrarian debt adjust-
ment guilds to be est blished throughout the country for the
purpose of adjusting debts nd advancing oans at low interest
rates from the state treasury to the 11mit of Yen 200,000,000.
Thirdly, the Agrieultural Property Crodit Law enables the
farmers and fis en to r ise lo ns on the security of
movable property, or th ir "to is  tr der. These laws
and the other me sures t ken by the Government are not con-
sidered  all deuuate t romedy the far ers' ills as their
debts re mch ut of proportion t the remedial measures
croposed.
(0)
Eab esy's d : tch N.  t ay 1i, L.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.90)
—22
() La 
Baxly in May the Mining Barenm of the Japanese
Department of Comseree and Iadustry gave to the press twe
plans which it is considering for the control of the eil
imdmstry and trede in Japan, - one providing for a goverament
mosopoly in eil and the other providing for contrel by
mons of a licensing system which could be used to axclude
foreigm importers of petroloum products and foreim refimers.
The Foreign Office stated that neither will be adopted im-
modiately. However, the foreign oil companies believe that
there is some reason to f ar the eventual adoption of a system
of oll control which will drive them from this market and they
hope that the British or American Governments will bring
up the matter at the London Economic Conference with a view
to msuring to them & permanent position in Japan. It is
possible that the oil plans were released by the Japanese
Government t the present time in order t afford a trading
point at the c nference.
(c) xchange.
The yen r se during ey from 13- '9 to k4-1 e cents.
This is generally attributed not to any change of conditions
in Japan but to dro, in th v lue of the dollar.
(d) iscelloneous Economic datters.
The Minister of Finone has euthorized the Taiwan
Electric Com ny nd other oer comp nies to buy foreign
ec e
the extent of Yen 45, .000 for the purpose of
Rmbarsy Legra No. 9,y,
nd No.
bmbassy:
te
nd
No.41
41

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.92)
-27-
repurchasing their foreign currency bonds on the
American and English markets. This authorizstion has mot
yet ben entirely taken advantage of because of the rise
in the New York bond market.
The relative failure of the Government's attempts
to inflate is shown by the fact that in spite of bond
1ssues to the extent of Yen 850,000,000 during the last fiscal
year, recently published igures reveal that there was no
increase in notes issued during the year.
(e) Effect upon Jacan of China's tariff revision.
The Japanese press exoressec concern over the
announcement by Chin:. sever: 1 months ago that she would
abrogate the Sino-J: panese Commercial Treaty. When the
abrogation took errect on May 15 there was little comment
in Japan. Howaver, when on May  Chine r ised her duties
there Was consideraple outcry here. According to press
reports the cuties on the orinciol Japunese exports to
China wore rpied cifty por cent.
The JIJI pointeu ut i, ane Itori i that China
is in n d  s to mnce  militory e mpaign against
Japan nd furt eo t ted at Jao n ill not surfer as
think.
o th t Jupanege
exrting to China
and inster esthi
turing punts there;
tmit Joan's ex orts to hin h vtready sutrered so much
a
Jpe boveot tht there is
1
iy the tari
inereose.
VII.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.92)
of naling to rod dapenese and 
asoused of taking photographs for esplonage
The Receny-Vaomem Gospesetion ia faced with
at to oust fereigm oil companies from dapm and,
h, has anosumtered trouble over the erestim nd
opemation of ite grsoline storage tank at Dozakd, weas
Keke The Singer Sewing Machine Company had its strike
Last mutumm. The Japan Steel Produets Company was resently
faced with a serious strike of its employess who demanded
that the Ameriean officials be ousted. The Generel Blectric
Company has been the subject of hostile demonstrations.
Andrews and George Company, Incorporated, alleges that it
has been discriminated aguinst by the navy purchasing bureau
because it is an American firm. The Ford Motor Company has
had its difficulties over sending trucks, cers, and supplies
to its North China market from Japan and has also beem accused
of espionage. General Motors Japan, Limited, has enoountered
serious difficulties in supplying its Chinese market from its
assembly plant in Japan. An analysis of these eases shows
that their difficulties have been due partly to an exaggerated
nationalism which et times becomes anti-foreign and, especially
auti-American . It is brgely the result of the influence of
tho
* Embassyis despatch No. 408 of Mey

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.84)
.1IV

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.94)
AND ETORATION:
MISCELLANBOUS:
of Though
For a Large part of the menth of May acedende 
ltbereal eireles in Japen vere upeet ever the eherges ee
by e Mixister of Eaucation against Professar Takitatem
Takikame, a member of the faoulty of the Law Gollege of s
Imperinl University. The professor was ascused of beims
radieal as a result of the publication of - benk to which the
autherities objected. The authorities of the univermity,
the faoulty of the law college and the students stood by
the prefesso , claiming that nothing contained in the book
could be considered radical. The Minister: of Education asked
for the resigmation of the professor. He refused to submit
it and the other members of the law faculty stated that they
would resign if Professor Takikawa were ousted. In: spite of
all this the Ministry of Education has deeided to oust the
professor and it remains to be seen what his supporters
will do.
The incident has brought the question of academio
freedom of thought to the fore. The Government appears
to have gained its point but 1t 1s very significant that
sections of the preas have supported the professor during
the dispute.
(b)

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.81)
of  ydoing
maghout the country have domated a
s, halmets, and other pieces of m
arfielals of the Depertment of Justdee decidse
bate portione of their pey te the purehase of & plmm
Amy La Lenctria. There seens to be ne dimiunt
ers of people donating and the amoumts domated.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
the publio with another
in order to obtaán approprie-
for mext year. the anti-Ameriem
there are signs that they will
elsewhere this time
There was some indieation of ant1-
American agitation. There were press
reports that half of the $50.000,000
aredit of the Reconstruotion Pinance
Corporati: : would be ueed to purohase
arms and ai mnition from Amerios. The
Tokyo AsaHI published several bitter
oritioisms

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.94)
-2 -
aritieimms of the United States. plae-
ing no faitn in the apparent surdlality
with which the Presidant reseived
Viscoant Ishii and aritieizing the
American polioy at the London Eoonomic
Conference, as well as attacking the
reported dooision of the United States
to build two naval bases on the Paoifio
Coast and to strongthen the navy in
goneral (pages 9 and 10).
Pages 10 to 1o deal with the
8
Eoonomio Conforence at London. The
6
Amerioan attitude toward the war debt
H
question and stabilizetion was severely
arit1cised by the HOCHI SHIMBUN and the
TOKYO ASAHI wh1le the Tokyo JIJI
00
praised the stand of the United States.
ago17 to 18 dimouss Japanese
relationa with the British Empire.
P
Setsuso Sawada will be the prinoipal
Japanese delegate to a conference on
R
tariffs at Simla. The Japanese hope to
have it understood before the confer-
ence convenes that any agreement made
at Simla will be effeotive and that
subsequent reference to London will be
only a formality. The Japanese hope
that, at the same time, a conferenoe
will be held in London to consider the
matter o: Jupanese commerce with Great
Britain and her colonies and proteatorates

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
一3-
ether then her dominione and India.
Thie ie being negotiated by Mr. C.
Kadomo, finanoial adviser to the
Japaneée delegation to the London
Gonference. "A first-slass trade war
is eppearing on the horison."
Pagem 18 to 22 deal with Soviet-
Japanose relatione. In connection with
nogotistions for the sale of the C.E.R..
the Japanese wish the purohase to
inelade the wharves, mines and other
property owmed in Manchuria by the
Boviets, the Japanese oleiming that the
Rmilway has been used to feed Manahuria
with "red" propeganda end thet Soviet
influence would not be entirely ousted
unless this other property were taken
over by "Manohukuo". or Japan.
A gonference was opened at Hsinking
on June 17 with regard to the abolition
of extraterritoriality in "Manohukuo".
The Japanese Government spokeemen were
less enthusiastio in this regard than
they were a year ago. Apparontly the
present conferenoe will determine little,
pross roports indioating that Japan will
give only vague promises to be fulfilled
in the future. The oallin or the con-
feronce was undoubtedly oaloulated to
oreate the impression sbroad that
"Manohukuo" hee almost advanoed to the
stago

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
stage whare she can be trusted to
manage her owm judieial affairs
(pagem 22-28).
George Bronson Rea informed a
momber of the Bmbamsy staff that he
intends to leave for "ashington soon
in the hope of advanoing the cause of
"Manohukuo" (page 23).
An Ethiopian prince, nephew of
the Emperor of Abyssinia, desires to
have a Japanese bride sent to him.
Some 20 Japanese sirls have applied
for the position (page 25).
The disagreement in the Seiyukai
party over their sttitude toward the
Saito Cabinet is Baid to have done the
party serious harm in the eyes of the
country. Some Japanese political
oommentators believe that oapitslists
are supporting the Seiyukai in its
efforts to overthrow the Saito Cabinet,
as the oapitalists would like to see
the militar out of oontrol. The pub-
lio sontinues to prefer the Saito
Cabinet and the military in control.
It 1s now apparent thet General Ugaki,
Governor

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
Governor General of Chosen, and General
Araki, in their reeent interview in
Tekyo, did not succeed in uniting the
two fmotione of the army. then these
two leaders came faoe to fmoe their
personal antipathy for eaoh other
beemme dominant and they parted more
opposed than ever. The Osaka merohants
are said to support Ugaki booause they
desire a government oonoiliatory toward
China, where they have important com-
meroial interests. An army officer told
a momber oi the Eabaeay ataff thut if
General Ugaki should ever make any move
to become prime minister he would be
assassinated. (pages 27-20)
Frinoe Tokugawa, who has resigned
the Presidenay of the House of Peers, is.
according to politicel gossip, to suo-
ceed Count Wakino as Lord Keeper of the
Privy Soal (page 29).
urine the month of June the yen-
sterling rate was stable at about 1s.3d.
and it Is believed that this firmness
Indioated that the yen had remained
firm, the rise in the dollar rate being
due entirely to the depreciation of
American ourrenoy. The depreciation of
the dollar hae not hurt Japan. whose
ourrenoy hes remained stable es regarde
the

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
to contrast their foreign trade
5
thé Maited States. The rayon industry
risins. (peges 32-34)
Twe well-known comsnists serving
life sentenees in prison have renounoed
mist beliefs. repertedly
besease they have conoluded that oom-
mamism offers no appeal for the relief
of the working classes in Japan. It
hes resently been reported that 400
peroons involved in a communist plot
were errested in Xyoto between
September 8, 1932, and Janmary 10, 1933.
One was the mon of the Mayor of Osake
and nearly all were students and sons
and danghters of middle-olass families.
(page 86)
LES:EJL

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.80)
10.
Bubgeete dentnly Roport n Cogasttope ta Sagem
During the Menthe of 
I. The month of Jne whe motakle fer a seriee
of vielts ame cersmomies during wmiek the Jepanese
mhewad sa apparantly sineese dxeire to be friandly
With the Waited States. Bishep James dewelr Perry
was welenmed net only as Presiding Biabey of the Pres
testaat Kpisoepal Chureh but as & grandnephew of Cone
modare Matthew Perry. Amerieen eharity ws siven
recogmitiom at the formal openlng of the mew buildings
of Ets Lakels Internatiomal Redical Conter. icmiral
Suntgomery M. Tayler was given è heerty welco e whem
do visited Tokyc cnd Yokohama om his flagskip, the
U.B.S. EoUsrod. The viait of Governar General Murphy,
the hmbesstdorts recentutiom ef in lascriptiom to
a temple in Isu, aod the visit of rty r Hawalian
Bay beouts huve received natatle st:intt a from the
Japenese. Amcns the cruses for the marked inprovesent
in J.panone ferling towaro the United Etates re the mti-
British fevline, the leck of eriticisa of Js an by
hrericen crriciele, th cordiel recapti m siven Viscount
Innii by the  reeldont, the cesentin of antdolmeriean
ropagande by thu Jupanese srny, ae the generel desire
of the Ja x mse t & in t lesat one fri ne mong the
Gre t Poerr. The oree sar to be dril hted over
the reoorts of th o rverseti at Datn the Presideat
and Viecunt I hii  they poxrrotly vleh to ropose
the negotl tion of e rbitriti n tre ty vith the Unlted
ta h  p e Govenlsd ate stel
trough v gui,  the ro i t' sorl prol.
Theyeeet tethbo
s h ly noce ar
-guinst the United : ttes coourred in con eotlon with
art tht th toeto r  the ontruotion
o    il De e in t ar the hs

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.82)
学
paservatioms which pructieslly mmllify it. The primsl-
pal develepwents during Jume im the esntreveray besmeam
cottos. Preparatioms are being made for a anferanee at
Simls regarding Indo-Japanere somverciel rulattons and
another et Lomdon r gordins otnar BritisbiJapanese cod-
meretal matteme. Megetistims for the scle or the
Chimese Sactern Evilway by the soviets to wuamemukus"
have tommeméed at Pokyo. The Jaganese appeared at the
a lsged shocting of three Japanese flskeraem in Seties
torritorial watern off Kamehntkn. The Jopanese are some
farring with the "mamehuine" rogime rogarding the abolitin
of extraterritorl lity tut it is believed that the foruer
have no intantion of siving up their rights in the near
futuro. They received s me satistreti in Tor the siming
of the cilitary truce In North Chine bmt these Is etIll
a me quenti n as to vnat relations wtil exiet in the
uture. Phe J ese Forcim Bitiee ill probably be oxpunded
soon in ur to i prve the foroih trade mromti m work
of tho diplme tis nd con l r ofrloes. An thiopian
Prince ns becn muvertisins f r a Jecxnece wtfe
It. The Colyuk urty is  llt per the uestien of
aivlns aunpore t the ais C tinet Tl y nd to
 1  the is  resent Goverment. some souple
th
silit s ca chis oItllste, sho t oued the C binet nd
the eiaki res ae vely.e  k hes rtrned
to  re rar I kirwor  oiel ltuti in

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.87)
militaryadys
foreign trade g dually and to c meamtrate  dapinesy
Last year. The Jananese silk incdastey is to fimange pmo
paganda in the United Stites. The rayon industry is
beming. Commodity prices re rising.
I. Prominent Japanese c muunists heve ranounese
their fomeer duetrines on the rnliz tlon that commmism
has no appeal to Japamese workers. Ths inoident at Eyate
University bis resulted in ths dismissal of a professer
of law fur his radigai beliefs and the resignatiom of the
Prrslient of the Juiveralty. The Jep ese ser have
droided to rotest the Inter-Parliawentary Union dtseussing
the mandate questiun. The edueation of omrtoun but
Japanose in Japan and thensubsnguent raturn to the United
Ststes may further  licate ths r os or blem un the Pacifle
Coust. Cortoln r tr in War-saki have wacovared a m

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.90)
R./67
The Honoradle
The Becretary of State,
Washington.
Biri
With reference to the Department's instruetion Wo, 88
1/
of July , lace, I tranamit horavith the Babaeay's monthly
report on conditious in Japen for the month of June louz.
Respeetfully yours,
Enclosure:
Joseph C. Orew.
Report . 1.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
a Consulate General,
Shanghei.
 Consulate General,
sukden.
 Consulate General, Serbin.
A true cupy of
In quadruplicate t tho Dapertment.
the sig ed uright
800Japan.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.94)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF JUNE, 19.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.91)
Tistns
()
Ishii's TeDks at Weshas
(d) The Prepssed Japanese Émerioen
Aradtration Treaty
(e) Japmts Reply to the President's
World Peacs Appeal....
he ieln C...
(f) Anti-ámarican Agitation........
9.10
(s)
Report that a new Ambassedor would
soon be A pointed to the United
States has been danied.....
10
II.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
The World Economic Conferenoe at
London.
..11,12,18,14
(b)
Tariff Truce..
.14,15
c)
Relations with the Brit1sh Empire..15,16,17,18
(0)
The Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway
by the Soviets.
.18,19,20
(e)
The Alleged Shooting of Jopanese
Fisherwen in Kamchatka.
.20,21,22
(r)
"hnchukuo"
3
Rel ticna wit, China
28,4
Conten lated  pansion of Japanese
Foreign errv ce.
14.25
(1)
Ethiopian Prlnce Desires J psnese
75,
III

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.87)
Indaa
(m)
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL APTAIRS&
(a) The Seiyuka1 and the Cabinet..... 2,
(b) Japanese Havy to be Rapanded..... 2,
(c) Presiuanay of the Honse of Peers. 23,30
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
11.
v.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget for 1934-5.
80,
(b)
Increased Taxes Durins the next
Pisoal Year.....
3,0
VI.
GENIRAL LCON VTC AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Er ect of the Deprociation of the
Dollar.
3E,
(b)
J penose  t nel onetery
Conditi ns.....
(c)
A Change of Poliey of the Witsui
in:
Colclun ir de for iret  If of
13
1scell nec us Industrie1 and
L1:

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.78)
Dates.
(z)
KEBGELLANEOUSS
(a) Coi.
(s)xyete Daiveraity Laeidemt..
(c) Japanese Peers Protest Agasda 
Intar-Parliamentary Umiom......
59,
(d)m,my American-born Japanese retum to
Japun for Sdueation.
(e)Nareotic Somg lers.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.94)
of
mins aad vásits whieh provided epyorts
watms of friendly feeling between Japem d he
States. The first, in chronological order, was the
Japm of Mahop James deWolf Parry who arrived in Mag.
Perry was weloomed not only as the Presiding Bishey of 
Protestent Episcopal Churon, conducting an investigetiem
his charen's very important missions in Japen, but alpe ms
Grandnephew of Commodore Katthew Galbraith Perry. Me tres
velled extensively throughout the country inspecting the
missions and was the object of several friendly sestures
indieating the honor in which the Japanese hold the name of
Commodore Perry. One of the most notable events of his so-
journ in Japan was the visit to the fishing village of
Kurihama where the collateral descendants of Commodore Perry
met the descendants of the lords of the Shogunate who were
the first to welcome Commodore Perry at the same spot eighty
years ago. The members of the Perry family were Bishop Perryl
his sister, Mrs. Russell; and Mrs. Grew, the Anbassador'e
wife, who is also a grandniece of Commodore Perry. The
meeting was witne sed by a large crowd and wide publicity
was given it in Japan.
The principal reason for Bishop Perry's visit at the
present time was to attend the fommal opening of the new
buiidinga

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
of1000,000.,hav
thickly pepalated distriot of Tekyo, rendering
portans service as a pablie health cemter and coma
tarseal Colloge of & very high standard. The
has been huilt up largely through the efforts ef Dr.
Bolling Toualer. The formal opening was the csasi mo 
for the extension of cengratulations to Dr. Tensler bat al
fer expressions of appreciation on the part of éartaim seotid
of the Japenese for the medical service rendered Japem as
various times by the United States.
In many respeots the most heppy evant of the month was
the visit of Admiral Montgomery Y. Taylor, Commander-in-Chief
of the United States ksictic Fleet, on his flagship, the U.Dee
Housron. a* The vessel was in Yokohama between June nd and
9th nd in Kobe between June l0th nd 14th. The receptiom
given Admiral Taylor was not only courteous but was very arm
and epparently sincerely enthusiastic. The newspapers showed
an unmistakedly frien ly at it de. The reesons for this were
partly personal admiration for Admiral Taylor and partly a
desire to show a friendly feeling t ward the United States.
Admiral Taylor's conduct during the Shanghai affair and his
friendship with Admiral Nomura were prime factors. Much
mpiiciy
Embessy!s despatch No. 432 of June 17, 1933.
Embassy's despatoh No. 446 of June 28, 1933.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.90)
whs red 
i 10othe.. me,temcomm
Tatlor. She Japanese Navy mas adoubtealy
anttoms to ascerd the Anerieum officers a hed
Im reciprocation for the courteous treatment mhem 
mese trainins squadron during its recent visit te 
Paeific Soast, In addition to these matives for the
attentioms to the Admiral and the other officers with hime
is quite likely that & responsible proup of Japanese errielal
wished to take advantage of this occasion to do something 
counterect the effects of the anti-Amerioam agitatiem, tmi
has been carried on in Japan during the past eigkteam monthse
The press gave attention to the P4-hour visit to Tokye
on June 5th of Governor General Murphy of the Philippine
Islands. He called on various Japonese government offiaials
during his stay and appears to have made & very favorable
1mpression on ll whe met him.
Another American-Jap nese gesture of friondahip was made
when the Ambass dor cintributed an Inscription comsemorating
the visit of Towosend Har is to a temple in Izu on his historie
journey fr n Shinod to Edo in 1857. An inscript1on was re-
uested by the bbot of the temple nd he nd f7 members of
the congregetion signed = let er of thanks sddressed to the
Ambassedor  fter he forwarded it to them.
The month ended with the presence in Jspan of  elegation
of Boy Scouts from the Bawaiian Islunds. They are travelling
throughout h country nd sre being given a very cordial
recoption by their fellow scouts in Japan.
(b)
eoate No.
 June 17, 19

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.95)
nose attitade toward the United States. Seve
age the events enumerated would probably bave
mare eonditions have changed, Just as the ats-
agitation gave sigas of having been fememted by es
army cireles, so the pro-mdriean feeling Ls aaly
partly traceable to official mourees.
▲ number of factors are rerponsible for the change.
The recent outburat against the British on account of the
abrogation of the Indo-Japanese trade agreement and the
raising of the tariff barriers in difforent parts of the
British Empire has contributed toward the revived good
feeling toward the United States. For many years the
Japanese have apparently considered the British their best
friends in th fumily of nations. Many of them heve now
a parently ecided that a conflict of commercial interests
will always prevent t continuance of this friendship and
they are consequently lookins to the United States to take
the place f thsir former llles.  This has been facilitated
by the restraint exercised by the new American administration
in the matter of criticisin: J panese poliey. Although
saveral
Embausy!s telegram No. 11. June 8- 11 a.m.
Embassyts despatch No. 451 of June 3, 1935.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.93)
in the reatins thet the smertoe Poternent
groding wat somst a yeer ago to be pey d
in the form of speeehes and lotters critiolains Ja
relations betwem the tro countries to the setiom of 
Amerieen "pacifista", who saw their comntry hesded temame
a war besause of the poliey of the pravisms adaimistetd
The repartedly cordial reception given to Viscoumt Iabli
the Ameriem President was greatly appreciated by the
Japanese pmblic.
The anti-American agitation which formerly appeared
to be carried on by a certain section of the Army has
apparently ceased. Gener:l Araki was recently quoted as
having said that America has begum to show "sinoerity"
toward Japan. The Army got its appropriations for the
Msnchurian campaign and carried out its policy in Chins
without a clash with & western nation. It is possible
that, if the Army wishes to prssent the pablic with
another "bogey" in ord r to secure their appropriations
for next year, ths anti-Amarican propagande will to
started gain. Howaver, there ars signe that they will
find an "euemy" elserhere this time.
Jepan's withdrawal from the Leegue of Nations
fellowed by the steps taken by sections of the British
Empire

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.87)
bether relasime wish the thse
e mmten wesre ariticiaing the Umsten
e l
Friendsnip betweam Japen and the Daited t
ef spprenshing megotiations of n artitati
the Waited Statee were givem side pablielty in th
press and were eathusiastieslly welsmed on all aldess
Available roports in Jupam regardins the comvasa
between the President and Vissount Ishii are vesy meagre.
Several special cerrespondents in Washington telegraphed
reports to their newspapers and the Poreign Offiee spekesmmm
made a fow statements. All reports, statements, and rumoss
were s gerly suized upon by the Jupanese press and fully
commented. upon.
The appurent cordl lity shown by the Presidemt was
much eppreci ted by the Japenese who have beeome accustomad
to expect eriticiem from Wushington. The Foreign Orffise
spokessan announced one duy that the questians of immigra-
tion and naval rutios "ere not disqussed. This eliminated
two of the matters on which differmeen ware likely to arise.
Much publicity wis siven t. the report that the President
&ppeored to consider the Manchurian incident as elosed
and did not want to bring up the watter in his conversations.
It was emphusized that the President's pruposul agsinst
tbe

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.92)
Ar dnterials, the Bn NI
 were frimdly and optimistie reeeatng
 tion, the   i
and the BOCH sIB w sheptl.
(4) The Prananed Jenanesnmhnexi
Daring the last month the Japansse press has
many ateries about the possibility of the negotistism
arbitretion treaty between Japan and the Uadted s
story first appeared in print on June 10 and mas probably
in the nature of a tuial balloom, The first repess wes
that the President and Viscount Ishii had discussed the
matter in Washington. The Foreign Office subsequently
denied this but stated that it was considering the desisability
of proposing such a treaty. Leter it was stated that it would
not be proposed until after the termination of the London
Confer nce because the American Government had indieated
that it did not wish to discuss the mat er while the eon
ference is in session.
The Foreign Office b sed its desire to conclude this
treaty on the Imperi:l Reseript issued upon Japan's with
drawal from the Le gue of "ations, but the newspapers
inturpreted the move to me n a ch nge from reliance upon the
traditional fri ndship with Great Britain tovsrd friendship
with the United States. The proposal has been well receiveà
by the press of Jepan. Apparently the terms of the treaty to
proposed re somewhere betwern the hoot arbitration trea-
ties and the Bryan tresties for the advencement of peace.
Some
Embassy's telegram No. llu. Juns 17- Noon nd despatch
No. 448 f June 18, 1956.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.93)
to a Japemese Zoaree Deetrine for A
rel iy,th dos yi
would be xelnded from the treety. oweve  n 
to belleve that, if a treaty is proposed, at will
provisions such as these.
(0) Lanenia Manly to the Presidnt's
The reply of the Japanese Govermment to the Pres
Peace Appeal of May 16 mas cabled to the Japanese Ambassades
at Washingtom on June 6.* It merely expressed in tme most
general terms the hope that the economie conferense wnd the
disarmagent conference would accomplish their objestives and
stated that the Japanese Sovernment would present its views
on * the different staps detailed in the President's messago*
as * the oecasion offers". The reply was not sent by the
Emperor to whom the original message was addressed, but by
the Government. By the time the reply was sent other matters
were angeging the attention of the press and there were few
comments. Those that did appear endorsed the reply as
expressing Japan's ideals of co pcration with other nations
in spite of her withdrawal from the League. However, they
approved the omission of any endorsement of the details
# Embassy's teleg a No. 113, June 6- 9 p.m.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.91)
)
Fareuant to the Department's instreeti
 Jude 10 made representations to the Pore
bebalf of Reverend Nielsen tho is held by bamdate im
the Danish Chargé atarfaires in tkyo also mde py
tons, Dr. Wielsen, an American citisen and a menber at 
Denish Latheran Wission, was eaptured by the bandits im Aprt
and the Japanese have been negotiating for his relesse. 
to the length of time whioh has elapsed some coneern is beins
felt for his safety. The Foreign Ofrice replied to the peemt
representations that the Army authorities in Manohuris are
doing their best to effeot Dr. Nielsen's release.
(r) Anti-Amer1ean Agitation.
Although the utstanding feuture of Japanese-Amerion
relations during the month of June was the inareasing friendly
feeling showh by the Jepanese, yet there were some evidences
of anti-American &gitation.
Certain J penese newspapers published a report
allegedly iven out by the Foreign Office, and based upon a
telegram from the J panese Winist r to China,that half of
the fifty million dollar loan recently made to China by the
Reconstruction Finunce Corporation is to be used for the
Durchsu
Embassy's telerran. 115, June 10- 9 .m.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.94)
 as publied svael 
of the paited atates during the month. It raresee
fit in the apperent cordialiy with wi
received Viscount Ishii nd theroby preduced a atanqn
the tome of friendliness being played by most of he 
at that time. It has critieized the Ameriean pelty 
London from the beginning of the economic conferedos.
Finally, it attecked the United States very strongly m it
reported decision to build two naval buses on the Pasifie
coast and to strengthen the navy in general.
(3) Report that a ney Ambasgador would soon be aepointed
to the United States has been denied.
a June 11 the press of Tokyo reported that the Porei
Minister had asked Mr. Kojiro Matsukata to be Ambasseder to
the United States. It wus stated that Japam needed at
Washington at the present moment a  an with wide business
experience. Mr. Matsuk: ta was at one time President of
the Kawasaki Dockyard Company nd more recently aequired
notoriety by concluding with the Soviets & contraet for
the urchase of petroleum. However, an end was put to the
report by & firm denial from the Foreign Office that the
Bovernment had ny intention of reealling Mr. Debuehi and
a denial from s. Matsukats thst he had been approached on
the subjeet.
 Embessy's t legram No. lro, Jie 19-noon.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
able te fellew the moves prepesetery to
th end Meonande Conference and later the preceedim
the Conferenee iteelf by nouns not only of the press
but alse of statements made from time to time b thsis
governmms offieials. There wes a general feeline 
problems teckled during June did not primarily somosmm
Resever, the Japenese were w tehins with interest ths
moves made by the United Stutes and the Baropemm nations wi
regard to war debts, stabilization, ete.
After thc conolusion of Viseount Ishii's talks at
Washington and prior to the convening of the confarengs
Jupanese Governnent spokesmen announced to the press that
Japan would propose that the Conferance outlaw the economie
boycott, such as China his been pr ctising against Japame
Howwver, before the conference actually met it wes stated
that due t the lack of sympathy with Japan's positim
avidenced by the Povers Japan would refrain from beinging
the matter up t tho eunfer noe und would deal with it
without the intervantion of third powers. It is difricult
to see how the Chinese boycott could have been disouseed
without bringing into the discussi n the entire question of
Chineso-Jupaness ? Lations and the J panese undoubtedly
would prefer not to start such discussions at the present
moment. For months the milltary have been insisting upon
the

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.93)
Igdtam cetton. This definitely foréen
Prorions to the nvanine of the cont
Gevernment spokemem stated that Preaident
Viscount Iantl had asreed on a poliey or
paets and that the American and Japanese delog
insist on this at the Conference.
Pinanee Minister Takahashi, in & press interview,
stated that he favored the crestion of  intematiomal
eurreney to set le international accounts. He maid thes
this wo ld necessitate the establishment of  inter-
national clearing house whose duties would be to keeg
exehanges steble. The Minister put forward this ms-
gestion in commenting upon  statement roported to have
been made by Viscount Ishii in which he expressed the
hope that there wo ld be an early return to the gold
standard in all the countries f the world.
From time to time varlous reports have appeared in
Japen regarding the British-Ameriean desire to stabilime
the yen. The firat report w s that it was proposed to
stabilize the yen eichunge at 55 Conts. The Japemess
press came out strongly against that, terming it too high.
A later ro ossl thet the stabilized rate be 25 cents

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
AngloJapanése rate has
le for several months and that the decline ot
r is the unstable facter.
The proposal for a lo% horizontal cut im tariz
whicn was alleged to hayve mem made by a member of the
Ameriean delegation was not supported by the Japanese.
They claim that they have not formulated a new tariff
since l9ll and therefore should mot be expacted to lewer
them in as great a proportion as the mations whick raised
their duties after the war. Foreigners in Japan refute
the Japanese contention on this point, stating that the
Japanese tariff has been moved upward considerably by
piece-meal methods. However, the Government spokesmen made
it clear that although Japan favors very much the lowering
of tariffs by the other nations of the world, especially
those to whom she wishes to sell her products, she will hold
out against tampering with her own tariffs.
The proposal that the gold reserves of the central
banks of the world be reduced to 25% of the currency in
circulation was welcomed by Japan, her gold supply being
rather low.
The American attitude toward the war debt question
and the matter of stebilization received some comment
from the Japenese press during the month of June. The
HOCHI

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.91)
at Britaia,- the formee f ite atde
and stahilisation and the latter for its hapite
praiees of the stand of the United stated ds tapata
sts preposel before the seonomie eomuissien fer redmetle
of tariffs and abolitien of other impedimats to the hew
of ecmmeree.
(b) Sarisf Trusa
Although the Japanese Governnent sutherised the
Japanese Ambasseder to accept in principle the taxiff truse
proposal made on May l2th in the Organising Committee of the
World Economic Conference, difficulties appear to have
arisen subsequently which almost caused Japan to withhold
her formal accession to the agreement. The cause of the
difficulties is stated to have been the fact that warious
sections of the British Empire where Japan enjoys & market
for her goods either failed to adhere to the truce or else
did so after they had raised their tariffs. Important
commercial interests in Japan objeeted to the Government?s
having made such & hasty decision in favor of the truee.
It was therefore decided that before formal sdoption coule
be effected the matter would have to be approved by the
Privy Couneil.
On June 28 the Privy Council gave its formal approval,
aub1ect

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.90)
pifrd
h third permite Jap te
fect that the reservatiens meake the agresmnt
the emaleations of the press amemted almest to
that the Japenese Gevermment shonid adhere to th
such an ineffective mannes. The only axpimmaticn Is tase
after the Cabinet had accepted the truce sme kind of 
approval had to be given. Apyroval of the agremwsemt with
mullifying reservations was the only way out.
(0) Ralations with the British Mapire.
There has beem a slow development of enti-mritish
feeling in Japan since the League began consideration of
the Manchurian affair.* The Japanese evidently expeeted
British support in the League and were hurt when it was not
forthcoming. Until recently the feeling was confined to
official circles but the abrogation of the Indo-Japanese
commercial treaty followed by similar action in other parts
of the British Empire caused sn outburst in the vernacular
pross.
When the month of June openod there appeared to be some
hope for settlament of the Indian question by & conference
立
* Esbaasyts despt tch No. 451 of Juno 0, 19r7.
See Mopthly Political Report for May.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.88)
-16 -
at mexte. Hewerer, the mstter wes further ompliemted
50 to 75 pereent ad vuloren in the smergome specirie 
cn plain grey cotton cloth of nun-British origtueme
to the depreciation of the Japanese yen and also te the
preszure of Japanese competition". Turning a deaf ear to
official acvice and sober counsels the executive eommittee
of the Jspen Cotton Epinners' Association, in extraoratmry
session, paesed u resoiution on June 8 dananding um in
mediate boycott f Indien cetton. Thi: sction was followed
by similar uetion by the Jupan Rew Cotton Daclers Associa-
tion, the Jupen Cotton Seavers' Association, and the Jupe
Cotton Textile De Lers' As:ociction. The resolution finally
passed  June l t general meetin: of the first-mentiond
organization included the folioving oi ts:
L. amber e m nies f the pianerat Ascociation shall
r fr in from making my new c ntructs for the pureheme
of raw cot'on fror indi on nd ufter June 13.
. Sember ccmpunies sh il notify the Assoclation on or
before Jun- 16 of the quantities of Indian raw cotton
which they h d ntracte t buy ar vious to June 13,
and un hich aelivery n nt been  de on June 13.
The pre of . an   Ly orteu the ction of
t
docr. though t p teu  that the Jo ese yould
si er ust
ueh
th los. The  sese Goveraument
obvi u ly eberr e  the etion  the inmers not
nly in its ngotiati
1th rit in put aiso, is pointed
ut elseshere in this  ort. in t" 1 n to n ve the com-
reial coyent.
C bipet

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.93)
-1-
Empire. Mowever, it is diffienlt to single  
ducts mich are imported only frow britein. The wmisting
tariff law provides for retaliatory tariffs nly mm
other countries ais higher teriffs directly at Japemese
goods alone und it is contended that the raises is tariff
im Imdie and elsewhere do not espesially designate Japanepe
goods.
Meanwhile, preparations for the Simla conference have
teen soing on. The Jupanese Govermment appointed Mr. Betsuss
Bammda, former chief of the Japanese Bureau of the League
of Mations, to be its principal delegate. A complication
developed hen the Indian Coverament announced that the Indim
delsgation would have no power to sign an grsement; that any
agreement entered into at Simla would have to be referred
to London for formal pproval. The Japaness ho to have it
understood before the conference convenes that any agreement
mads at S1mle vill be effeetlve  nd the sutseguent referenee to
London only formal.
Besides the questi n of the importation of Japanese
goods into India there is the matter of Britain's abrogetion
of the Anglo-J-panese trede greement applleable to Wast
Africa, mentioned in last  onth's politieal report, and the
mere racent inerease in the textile tariffe of the Federeted
M1ay

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.89)
elath at no-british arigin. Its tin hs b
protusted by the apanese Consal Genaral at Simgepomee
under the autherisation of his Poreigm Orfises Dhe Jap
néss now hope that, simmltoneous with the simle Comferemm
a conforence xill be held in London to conalder the mit
of Jepanese com srce xith Great Britain and her calemies,
and protectorates, other than her dominions and mdia. Ths
is being negotiated by Mr. Chokiuro K dono, financial advimer
to the Japanese delegation to the London Conferenes. Homeve
as the month ents the presa r ports from England do not offem
much promise of agr ement between the Japanese and Laneashire
1nterests, not to wantion the infent textile industries of
Britain's colonies. fhe two conferences may be held but
the prospeot of o h ppy s lution of thair problems is not
bright. A first clnsr tr de  r 1s apecring on the borizen.
(a) The Bale of the Chin se estern Hailpay by the
Soviste.
Negstietions for the sale of the Chinese Eastern
Railway, or the North Monohuri 11wey, s it is now alled by
Manchukuo, begin in Tokyo n June 7. It is proposed that
the Boviets sell their inter sts in this reilway to "Manchukuo
but the negotiatiour re being car ied on in the presence of
the Jope es . The initial sessi n of th e mferonee was at-
tendeo by 
 t for Foreim Affeire. Count
Uchida
teh
Jone.19

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.91)
一
Asstming that ho sending e delegation to Togo t
désemse the matter the Soviete insteate their siacerity in
ae to mell the reilway, the principal question t t
womld sem to be me of price. There is reported to be = sremt
divergenee between the two parties om this matter. The vie
wish to buse the price on the original cost of the ruilmy
while Manchukue" wishes to ure the presant, or probable fature,
earming power us the basis. The events of the last year and a
helf im Mangharia have alreudy considerably reduced the earming
power of the railway and the plns to build parallel lines
threaten to redase it still more in ths future. Comsequeatly
the Soviet and Japa ese bases of price-fixing are vesty far aparte
However, Jspen and its ward  ulu prob. bly be willing to pay
zomothing in orer to rid their ter: Itory of Soviet-omed
roperty and Boviet policy curin: recent months would lead ono
to belisve th t it might desire to d  way with one f the
couses or friction with its nelghior  the couthward.
Among other robl ms whic a ise in contecti a ith the
negotiati ns is the u ti n  t tn extent of Soviet
inter sts in the r ilway. The ovicts claim that they, s
succ seors t tne Czarist Gover ut,  th railway eatir ly
or in  rt. The J pnse l im th 1 the hussin only onjoyed
a richt to operate the  tway jo ni ly lth he Chinese, but
that the o ne ship is vested in Chino, or wManchukuo". In
this connection the uestion lse  to who  ssumes the
ligetion thelwey

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
80
Another matter to to settled is the matter of tho
other interests of the Soviets in Horth Mamobmrta.
Japanese wish the purchase to inclade the arves, mines
and other property omed there by the Bovlats. They elaim
that the railway has been used to feed Manchuria with ra
propaganda and Soviet influence would not be entirely onsted
unlese this other property were taken over by Manokmkuo, 
Japan,
▲ side-issue to the sale of the railway, which may be
said to be more important in some respects than the sale
itself, is the question of Soviet recognition of "Manchimo".
By negotiating with the new regime, rather than with China
who is the other party to the treaties governing the railway,
the Soviets certainly imply recognition of Manchukuo's" suc-
cession to Chinese rights in Manchuria. If any agreement
is signed it is difficult to see how the Russian regime ean
avoid terming it complete acceptance of "Manchukuo" at its
own valuation. For such recognition "Manchukuo" , or Japan,
might be willing to ruise her monetary bid considerably.
As the month closes the onference regarding the sale
of the railway has just begun and it is impossible to predict
its outcome.
(中)
The Alleged Shooting of Japanese Fishermen in
Kamchatka.*
As the month closes the Japanese apnear to be making an
issue of the alleged shooting of three of their fishermen off
the coast of Kamchatka. They claim to have evidence that
members of ti Sovlet O.G.P.U. did the shooting and they
demand
saysoteh Vo. 451 June 80, 19.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.91)
 off th bodies os the n  wll
weidence. It is difficult to knov how the Soviet agmte wil
be able to conduct an investigetion. the Bevletw have pe
tted the entry into Soviet territorial waters of the Jape
mase armed vessel. However, the Japanese reply that the
weesel remained outside the three mile limit and only a
party of unarmed men rent ashore.
The Soviet end Japanese fisharaen off the coast of Emm-.
chathe are eng ged in stronuous competition and foreible methots
to gain their respective urposes are not unkmom. this may
be just one of auny inciuents of ths same nature. The Jopa-
nese Government may be seizing unon this ease to push its
subjactst interests in those fields.
The heste vith hich the Javenese drstroyer ruchsd to the
scene sfter the lleged shooting md a subsequent cintroteray
between the spok sman of the Foreign Office ane the Tokyo
correspondent of I ess gency : to whether the forwer
stated in e ress inte vle tt the destroyer Lad actuslly
entered Sovtet territeriel s ters have csused some peo le
to lock upen ta. mulu t in ssicion. It has some eer
warks of an laci t mmufectared by the Jacanese puval vessel
on the s ot, mluh loay is csine foreed to b ck ug. A wember
of toe stat or e cviet sy in toayo hes sriv tely satored

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
has given some reason to bels
léviet's apparent desire to avoid tromble at
lity mot easing their position.
(r) amohukuo".
After the projected purchase of the Chines
Sastern Railway, the principal matter being negotisted
Japan and her ward during the month is the proble a
abolition of extraterritoriality. When the "Mancia
magime was set up the Japanese talked and wrote a grom
deal about this matter.In ctemdance with their promim
to the inhabitants of Manchuria a conference mms copmene
in Hsinking on June 17. The Japanese Goverpment spoks
according to wat a pears in the press, are less enthusiastio
whenmking about abolishing extraterritoriality than thy
were a year ago. They now advise the new regime to com-
clude, speedily the necessary legislation and to enforoe it
for a period before the abolition of the Japanese consular
courts is considered. When this stage has been passed
the Japanese spokesmen promise that a conference will be
held to conclude an ugreement regarding a system of
s curity during  he period of transition, after which 
period of three years will elapse before the two-year
process of abolishing extraterritoriality will be started
as concerns the principal cities. The same sources state
that

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.91)
dgiag from weat is heard in Takye the
me taai cn deare ey les
tatamenta tasued to the press here Ladieate thee
presums Japen will only give eertain vagts promises e
e fulrilled in the future. The calling of the som
ference is undoubtedly caloulated to creste the impy
abroad that "Menehukuo" has almost advaneed to the 
where she can be trustou to manage her om judiciel arraimm
Er. George Bronson Rea, who receatly returned frem
Geneve where he had gone on beh lf of "Manchukue",has
informed a member of the staff of this Ewbassy that he
intends soon t, leave for Washington here he hopes to
advance the cause of his principals.
(s) Relutions witb China.
The news of the Sino-Japanese military truce in
North China wes received with satisfaction by most elements
in Japan, es they believed that it meant a revival of
fri ndly relations and of trade with China. Some seetions
of ouinicn doubted the sincerity of the Chin se, and there
were hiats th tassist nce sjuld be given to Chang Kai-shek
in the unification of China should he show & friendly
attitude toword Japan. Foreign observers in Takye arausgme-
what puzzled as to J pan's in nediate objeetive in North
China, s definite plans to place Pu Yi on the Dragon
Thrane or to set up s Govornment Indrp ndent of Nanking
have epp rently b ua dro med. It is believed thot a simele
Do1102

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.91)
 wil n
ésemdins te the Japenese press the signine et
pollay et China tomard Japen. The Japanene Gommml
 nking reyorted to his government that the me
had dmcided not to mact the anti-dumpins tarast msims
dapan which she had threatened. Purthermere, the Tet
press reported that the anti-Japanese boyoett is ha
had eased.
.Teward the latter part of the month the press reported
anti-J panese agitation in Pukien Province neceasitatims
Japanese warships to stand in readiness to go to the relief
of Japenese subjeots there.
(n). Contpmalated Expansion of Japanese Poreim
Bervice.
In spite of the Cabinet's announced opposition
to any increase in the budget for next year, the Foreim
Minister is strongly advocating an increase in the Japa-
nese Consular and diplomatie services. Be and his sup-
porters believe such « step necessary in order that Japan
may give more attention to "economic diplomao". A desire
to find more markets in the Near East for Japanese cotton
goods 1s unuoubtedly one of the motives behind this pro-
posal.** According to & press nnouncement on the last day
of June, the Poreign Urrice wants to open new logations in
Egypt
amba sy'. des stch No. 426, of June 9, 1933.
No. 44
June 21, 1926.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.89)
一
m Gomseretal Coumselors to Sew York and Bsiurines
n oal scrtaries to aavia, n
Ottoma, Sydady, Cairo, Buenos Aires, and Parid
(1) Ethigslan Pringe Pesires Janasme Prida
For several weeks the Japanese press āas carzied
atories of the request of Prinee Lij Alsye Abeba, mephés
of the Empuror of Abyssinia, to have & Japanese bride sems
to him. The prince visited Jupan last yer in the eampa
of the Foreigm Hinister of his country. It is suid that
after his returm home his longing for a Jupanese maifem
wus such that he requ sted"imperial sunction" for his
ma rlage to a Japanese. So Bss aow rrtuested a Tolgo
lemyer to find him  uitable bride. is a rasalt of
wide publicity throughout Jspan th: press reports that
the laxyer has rec ivedliestiens from twenty J panes
sirls who destre uni n rith the l periel line of Lthiople.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.85)
-
KIL. INTENNAL POLITIGAL AFFAIRSI
(a) The Gadrmkai and the Cainata
The Seiyukai Party bas been split into tmo factioms
over the question of supporting the Saito Cabinet. The
younger element, mostly meabers of the lomer house, are
dissatisfled at not being in complete coutral of the
Goveroment md wish their party to come cut in oppositim
to the present regime. The more conservative group, under
the leederakip of Dr. Euzuki, the President of the Party,
desire to continue to sunport the Cabinet. After the an-
nouncement that Finance Hinister Tukehashi would not re-
sig, which was r orted in l st month's poli ical report,
Lr. tuzuki 1ssued : st t ment in which he s 1d that the
Seiyukai, alch had forxerly given fell su port to the
policy of the Govervsent, woule neeforth ndert ke to
criticize it   t. o s: it. This et temeut we
ot strowes er wah r the oger e entno they threten
to di-r. t the
. Lr. suzuki, tle Frerent, has
cocidec to
ioy on  terful v itine.
Accorcin t Dr. .  shi, bho rite in the JAPAN
 , tn ins ln te  ne  e yukal
ssureth
fCbinet.
belicve n  l be extremely   cul rer united
 sent C binet no that the task
nee be rerrx de y the oire ees f pt n
rtyt es thet the

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.89)
-27-
has dissredited it dth the country and dome it sarios
harm.
Some Japanese political commentators attribate the
meeent activity of the Seiyukai in trying to overthrow
the Baito Cabinet und set up a govermment of their om
to pressaurs fros the capitalists who bave had anough of
military domination. According t this theory the capi-
talists ceased to contribute oney to the political parties
when it became cleur that the cilitary controlled every-
thing but they hve now rasumed d ing it, believing in the
possibility of underaining the power of the army. The
reoent controveraje betw: an the 8 ito Cabinet and the
Seiyukei is interpreted to be a fight betwee the ailitary
and the cpitalists. The co ercial interests ho domin ted
urty ulitics sef re September 9sl are said to have beem
deorivec by the milit ry of th lr cormer privileges. More
over, it is contendeu that they vie with longing the ripe
fleld of  nchurla where they ould like to turn J pan'
deminrnt position into  onetary r turns for therselves.
Ine ermy i: nmot f erin. em u h iaene nt to Je panose
cauitel in  ne uric but the e it lists bll ve thet with
uliticins in corol  in
e urin soulo be "gold
inef nntni: theory de not at
triput vry  uo b tiv o une e it lists aho are
osec t su port t telyukal. Paey re e  of
1.11
iti  or corotin
i
the1

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.89)
by the mity.
Omaral gari, the Govermer Ganaral of Kores, md
fammer Minister of War in soveral Minseito Cabinetae ro-
turmed to his post after spending month in Toaye,
temsibly  business conmected with the administraties
of Chosem. However, it is the general belief that he as
locking orer the political scene. As reported in lass
month's politioal report, he had an interview vith General
Araki und it was at first reported that thay had patched
up their differenoes. Hosever, the hopes of the military
that the two facti.ms in the Army are tbout to unite ware
oventually found to be unwarr nted. The truth finally
leakec out. In pite of the reparations n de by their
respeetive groups of fri nds und supporters, when the two
leaders cans face t. I ce, their parsonal antipethy, each
for the other, sucame ain nt no they  rted more opposed
tiiwn ever.
General Ugaki ls a ner lly i entified with the Minseito
although pe is no:  rty umber. He hes sus orters mong
the de yukai also, bu  inseito, bucked by strong Osaka
Interets, re rruite. Itn the cur: ne egitation to make
nin te e of Viscount  ito. The osake merchants
ore seid to desire  overnment conciliatory towerd China
were they mav tm ort r  ereial in r sts nd ceneral
drki n  seon lenee to tead them.
owever, the @enoral
has r turned to Yorea where he will likely stay for some
time. an army of feer rece tly told
wember f the stoff
 this bebas y t ire 1 gaki shoule ver make my
hei t thete or ormer
215

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.79)
Pramier Iamint.
The rallemers of temersl arakd appeur te be firaly
antremched in the Wor rrice and to wishe to keep the
Saite Soverumemt in power. Cener l Araki Is givem ach
of the eredit for heving persuaded Finance Ninister
Takabasnd not to resign. However, he sde ome very
aigmifiesnt stetement during the political arisis to the
effect that the Army do sn't eare whieh party is in
power us long az the "nationel policy" is continued.
(t) Janmse Nyx to be and
About the middle of the momth the Japanese Havy
Departmemt rele se o th: press its olams for building
: the aavy to the Londm treuty ilxits. The lem re
quires n arpendi ure f Ien 46, ,000 during  three
year period nd Yan 17 ,. , O00 hes been rssueslod in the
budget no in  p rtiun ior the nert fisoal year. this
is cbvicusly pert r J pan's schece to r cuest  re-
visi  of the n vl tiorn the  nn trty  ires
(e) Presiuancy  soe houce ef Por.
rince Iyes t ku, Pr siceut f tue Buse
of  ro,t ree in n Jue  the
er und of rh lth ot rin tn f thirty
year perdo f sorvi.  i  on b 70 y. rs of 
and her s it ve srt
of the Upper House. ae rcins to  iiel ssr ip  ill
ext  tatara Se  theye in soe
tn
th

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.81)
-20-
fature.
Primee Pesimaro Eomce has been appelated Premaasnt
the Rouse ef Peess. He has formerly beem Viée Premidm
m.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
11.
GOVERNMENT PINANCE:
(2) The Budet 25 1934-5
The Cabinet bas lready begun discussin of the budges
for the fiscal yeur beginning April 1, 1334. All indica-
tions point to  budget which sill equal, if not surpass, the
ono for the rosent ye r. The ar Departrent isdmamding
Ineressed appropriati ono nd the Davy Department wants the
aane. The Pin nce uister hopes to decrease the  ppro
priatims f t e Mandrurian venture d the relief up ro
riations. Ho ever, the rmy poses him as regerds the
foreer nd the plitini s rordi the latter.
The army tates thet even though o  tions  Long the
Groat Wall sve ce seu, yet there coatns the problem of
jacifyint the  nuite
csiybuildin
rm
neut u rters in - tehuriz ror the J pansso troupo. The
aats trrico n thismer have
evoked soln c  sm rro th ress no there will un-
doubtadly be great   r disou sin f the  tuer befor
tafyd
() inereusee xes cur ns cne usxt fiae 1 veer.
The defieit o: n biltlon yee for the resnt
fiscel year ir bein
no the cu stion has
turaliy risen
th y largd eit for next
1t
bne et
ar ntly Finance Minist r
khashi
has
Jn

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.93)
 oested to the ide of inoresing he tases
to some extant though he does not belleve It advlsahle
tu luss ase then very wuch as it would tend to atetk the
revival of industry. The Army favors the raising ef tam
upon the large incomes and the Zeiyukai is Peported té be
studying a prouosul to raise the taxes considerably, junt
to embarras: the Government.*
It is probable that sone inerease will have to be
brought about in order to satisfy the military and other
radical reactionaries. Japenese industries, exeeptins
the power companies, have increased their dividends during
the past year nd the Government may be foreed to raise
the taxes of those who appcar to be so prosperous.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.79)
ERAL ECONONIC JAND FINAR
a soeton s bed n into
(=) fest or the Demmeatatten ar me 
The valne of the Japanese yem in terms f gl
during the month of June from s-1/2 ceats to 2? nte.
Hewever, the sterling rate was stable at whout Is.ad.
The yem tranmactions with Great Britain are very mmell
number nd therefore the sterling rote aun be considered
or less nowinnl, whereas the treding with the Unitee Btates
represunts cbout 4of of J. pan's forelgn trade Bemever,
in a ite of this relative unimportance of the sterling
transactions, it is believed that the firmmess of the
sterling-yen r to indicates thet the yen has remained
firm, the rise in the dollax rote Deine due entirely
to     i .
She  r nt t be  ing meh over
the ti  e llr. American foreim co
rre se not te ueith the d poese in th
Ite  il rh in the Fr  st. It hs been
 diate
t portst united totes wil
bo fetet; b  y su ly is a de th t uutil the
y re che
e  on' orts t the inited st tos
wtb
 dy howe
sigus
ion  ort tr de iato J an
 by 
tiv t aInortere or reriean
 tsti  vag boon sufresing  etly
tr de since do mn I rt the yold
1nd ra in iber la 1
(b)

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.84)
-88-
(b) Zasnne Intemal Mesatary Cnditianse
By memth of Jume has been notable for briaging
the lomest interes rates that Japem has over memm. t
issommt rate of the Bank of Jupam has been redneed to
.s, the lewest in its history. Interest rates on fised
deposits in first class banks have been rudused fres 4.2s
to 5., the lovest on r cord.
The tonds s ld by the Government to the Dank of Jupen
have found their way to the other b nks, they having no
other lice to invest their  ney. Industries apear to
bave enoughl ct ital int the banks cannot get rid of their
sur lus funás.
For the first tlce Government bonds have gone above
par and next conth the Government sill issue  new series
ut 4s, nother r cord ow.
a)A Change of Policy of the Mitaui Inter ats
A d velop nt vy significant for the future is
the dscision  the it
int  sts t contract their
foreign urode  inv st nt vry er du lly, nd to meve
thirci
r  y st at in J enese industry.
ec rdin
Cewighricle of this
thithe
DerSUnF
lic v ry otiuistic ro
rut
f un in intetional
trde.theyiv
s of disortminory
betsuresn
or r re will ndersell
 un wbtedly ax ect to
outin
rkst
tiistie in

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.89)
This repreamte
s07, 000, which 1n a desrease of Yen
me Japanese Silk Assoeiation has definitély des
spand six mlllion yen an publicity in the United méetée
1ts representatives will sall within a fem weaks for the
purpose of consulting with silk mán in Ameriom regarding the
mamer of spending this sum.
The rayom industry of Japam is in the midst of & boom
All the leading companies are dubling and trebling their
capital.
Wholesale and retail commodity prices rose during June
having beer cic ina for several months.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.84)
21.
VEII.
ACTIVITIES OF POREION CONHERCIAL INTRRESTE:
11.
1x
LABOR AND EVIGRATION:
11.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.87)
te serving sentences of life imprimnt, hae
oumsed their communist bellers. They are reperted to hate
come to the obvlous comolusion that comemmimm offers me appest
the relief of the working class in pan. In spite f
ech propeganda comwumism has  s led more to Japanese in-
talleeteals than to the working man. The comenmists have bem
leaking fer some nutional crisis in Japan during which they
could precipitate & revolution, but eeah erisis has been met
by an cutburst of na ion*list feeling which has completely
drowmed the efforts of the cou unists.
The lifting of : police ban recently revealed the
faot that 40l persons  ere arresced in Kyoto between September
3 of last yaar nd J nuury 10 of this yeur, -11 involved in
a communist plot. the on t the  yor of Usuke was one
them end nearly 1l were etudents nd sons end daughtersar
midule ciess, rether then bor, focllies.
(b) Syote vuiverelty Incident.
The La iunt in tae y to university hich was
reportee io Lt othi I r t, s rosalted in
kikaw hi 1
the dini ukits
Leged r dical b li f.i  no u hin the resi
ent he Universitli
res it of the ff ir. the
cofnt in this matterut 
tor  nst its eti mism
1

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.80)
eptatcn vill de more srestly respdstal
()
Armda et lates
Ofricials of the Japanese Hoase of Pesse are
reperted to have decided to lodge a pretest sgaiast the
inclukten in the agande of the poth session of the tater
Parliamentary Union to be held in Madrid in ctaber ad Itm
eamcerming the statas of the League of Matioms msndates.
The opinicm of the Peers is that if the remeiution proposed
by the comail of the Uain is approved it might have am
effeet on the Japanere sandates in the South Pacifid. There
fore, they wish to have the witter exeluded frem the dis-
cussiuns at Sadrid
(d) Kany Americen-bora J: Danses fotun to Japm
for Equeatione
In lual the wber f c ic n-bon J penese childr
studyin in Jene seh l in J en m tied t co
in June is ttiete . It 1e lelte that
about so of tn en i re bor in ths United utates of
serents
I   J n for chling. This con
dition
e livin in  nen, by
their el  no th ir Jape
ese la  ce, u the a loulties xper need by Jepa
s clloren d in l ses iitn
themselves ttet
e 1.1 rer no by the fet
that the
ube, to
ake their
4
it
The c1-
ybut vyy
and
1th uh

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.89)
Grte a prtn  the Paie Cst  
Mamaitem Islands. The proklsn will probakly net dee
aere then ome or tho gedatioms, as the aphe
will probakly develop an stachmemt for the Dastet mtated
unless Japanese allegiance and attachment ia maintainel
by infusion of new Japanese blood, such as would be pro
vided if American citizens of dapansse bloed were pee
mitted to bring in Japanese-bomn wives. this problem may
lead to race conflicts on the Pacific Cosst and hence to
aggravation of 1ll-fecling betwern Jupan and the Oaited
Ctatos.
(0) Narcotie amug lers Arrusted.
About the midale of June the Japanese polie
saue some arrests in N xasaki hich uncovered & band of
smug lers of wor hine to the C ited States. The arrests
were made as a reult of infocuution sup lied to the Jape-
nese Government by this Embessy. It is hoped that clues
ave now been found which will eneble wore arrests to be
made and th arug tr fric rom Je n to the United States
interru:teo.
 Ebasy's   tch No. 438 or June , 1
Dep rt nt Iotructt n No. re4 of Mry 1 19

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.86)
a
0.
Dégsmetée vise repert.
a
Japenese ien n he 
0.
me leave for . D
Sed qrtaiy imt s .
" 2s, Letters regatery.
450
• 16,
Treamitting beoks fer the Dagartmmnte
27.
Déplomatie vise repert.
408
 17.
St. Lake's International Hompital.
483
 17
Mamorial for Tewnsend Harris.
484
 19.
Statistical abstraet ef the Japamese Mimistay
of Agrisulture and Forestry.
4.55
 17,
Japanose redio stations, interferense with
U. 3. stations.
456
" 17,
Anmual Report on Administration of Chosem l0s0=s.
459
" 19,
Requisition for grass seeds.
458
" 20,
Increasing tendeney of Japenese immigrants in the
U. . to educate their ohildren in Japam.
459
" 20,
Relief for foreigners who suffered loss during
the hostilities between Japan and Chima.
440
Contemplated expansion in the Japanese
Foreign Service.
441
23,
Diplomatic vise report.
408
26
Leave of absenee for Mr. Turner * Mr. Washington.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.70)
e
A .
.
sdéress made by the sbassdes
Increase in Rebessyts eeatirgent
80.
Ant-iti a Pr 
three Jupanese
03035
0.
Dipleatie vise repert.
8o.
Disossaien of Japenese buiget for
0.
Chimese Kasterm Railway.
0.
Water works at Harbin.
a0.
Request for Goverament publieatiem.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.72)
1
20
teloce ksampping casés
14,20
Pereend for matat frem
11
Recall of . , 
110
16, mocm.
Seeretary Bll's e n
110
 27.
Rumaren Jepan-meri ean arkt
100 19, mom.
Ameriean lean to himée
New code takles.
1,11
,11
128 22, 11 .
18422, 11 a

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.85)
, Internatienal Géelegial
l 
opimi
made by the Japemese Way
A1 * , Japam's oil rroblems: Purther Bee
41
• , Laying of Keel of the U.S.s. H.
425
mication Gompe
of an Electrieal Ca
614 " 26, Certificate of illness of Wr. Dickevese
415 " 86, Diplomatic Visa Report.
416 * 26, Taxation of Sungari Flour Mills.
417 " 27, Tranmmitting gifts of German Ambassader.
418
" 87, Information concerning Theatres in the U. 8.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 8, 1933
133
DEPAPTMIVI OF SIATE
Tokyo's monthly report for June,
1933 (dospatch No. 459, July 6):
The first ten pages deal with the
improving attitude of Japan toward the
United States, most of which is already
kmown to the Division. The pro-American
feeling is apparently partly traceable
to official sources, just as the anti-
Amerioan agitation gave signs of having
been fomented by certain army circles
(page 4). General Araki was recently
quoted as having said that America has
bogun to show "sincerity" toward Japan.
It is possible that, if the army wishes
to present the public with another
"bogey" in order to obtain appropria-
tions for next year, the anti-American
propaganda will be started again. How-
ever, there are signs that they will
find an "enemy" elsewhere this time
(page 5).
There was some indication or anti-
American agitation. There were press
reports that half of the 50,000,000
oredit extended to China by the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation would be
used to purohase arms and ammunition
from

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
from America. The Tokyo ASAHI published
several bitter criticisms of the United
States, placing no faith in the apparent
cordiality with whioh the President re-
coived Viscount Ishii and critioizing the
American policy at the London Economic
Conforonce, as well as attaoking the re-
ported decision of the United States to
build two naval bases on the Pacifio
Coast and to strongthen the navy in
goneral (pages 9 and 10).
Pages 10 to 15 doal with the
Economic Conference at London. The
American attitude toward the war debt
question and stabilization was severely
oritioized by the HOCHI SHIMBUN and the
TOKYO SAHI while the Tokyo JIJI praised
the stand of the United States.
Pages 17 to 18 discuss Japanese
relations with the British Empire.
Setauzo Sawada will be the principal
Japanese delegate to a conference on
Indian tariffs at Simla. The Japanese
hope to have it understood before the
conference convenes that any agreement
made at Simla will be effective and that
subsequent reference to London will be
only a formality. The Japanese hope
that, at the same time, a conference
will be held in London to consider the
matter

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
matter of Japanese commerce with Great
Britain and her colonies and proteotorates
other than her dominions and India.
This is being negotiated by Lir. C.Kadono.
financial adviser to the Japanese delega-
tion to the London Conference. "A first-
olass trade war is appearing on the
horizon."
Pages 18 to 22 deal with Soviet-
Japanese relations. In connection with
negotiations for the sale of the C.E.R.,
the Japanese wish the purohase to
inolude the wharves, mines and other
property owned in Lianchuria by the
Soviets, the Japanese claiming that the
Railway has been used to feed Manohuria
with "red" propaganda and that Soviet in-
fluence woula not be entirely ousted un-
less this other propert, were taken over
by "Manohukuo", or Japan.
A Japanese-"Manchukuo" conference
was opened at Hsinking on June 17 with
regard to the abolition of extraterri-
toriality in "Lanchukuo". The Japanese
Government spokesmen were less enthusi-
astic in this regard than they were a
year ago. Apparently the present con-
ference will determine little, press
reports indicating that Japan will give
only vague promises to be fulfilled in
the future. The callin of the conference
was

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4
was undoubtedly calculated to oreate the
impression abroad that "Manchukuo" has
almost advanced to the stage where she
oan be trusted to manage her own judicial
affairs (pages 22-23).
Goorge Bronson Rea informed a
momber of the Embassy staff that he in-
tends to leave for Washington soon in
the hope of advancing the cause of
"Manchukuo" (page 23).
An Ethiopian prince, nephew of the
Emperor of Abyssinia, desires to have a
Japanese bride sent to him. Some 20
Japanese girls have applied for the
position (page 25).
The disagreement in the Seiyukai
party over its attitude toward the Saito
Cabinet is said to have done the party
serious hsrm in the eyes of the country.
Some Japanese political commentators be-
lieve that capitalists are supporting
the Seiyukai in its efforts to overthrow
the Saito Cabinet, as the capitalists
would like to see the military out of
control. The public continues to prefer
the Saito Cabinet and the military in
control. It is now aiparent that General
Ugaki, Governor General of Chosen, and
General

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 5 -
General raki, in their recent inter-
view in Tokyo, did not succeed in
uniting the two factions of the army.
When these two leaders came face to
faoe their personal antipathy for each
other became dominant and they parted
more opposed than ever. The Osaka
merohants are said to support Ugaki
because they desire a government con-
oiliatory toward China, where they have
important commercial interests. An
army officer told a member of the Embassy
staff that if Ceneral Ugaki should ever
make any move to become prime minister
he would be assassinated (pages 27-28)
Prince Takugawa, who has resigned
the Presidency of the House of Peers, is,
according to political gossip, to succeed
Count Makino as Lord Keeper of the Privy
Seal (page 29).
The depreciation of the dollar has
not hurt Japan, whose currency has re-
mained stable as regards the pound
sterling. An unprecedented period of
"easy" money has come to Japan. Interest
rates are the lowest on record. The
Mitsui interests reflect the optimism
regarding the future in their decision to
contract their foreign trade gradually
and

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
and to goncentrate on Japanese internal
industry. Japan's adverse balance for
the first half of l933 is considerably
less than for the same period last year.
The Japanese silk industry is to
finance propaganda in the United States.
The rayon industry is booming. Com-
modity prioes are rising (pages 32-34)
Two well-known communists serving
life sontences in prison have renounced
their communist beliefs, reportedly be-
cause they have concluded that communism
offers no appeal for the relief of the
working classes in Japen. It has recently
been reported that 400 persons involved
in a communist plot were arrested in
Kyoto between September 3, 1932, and
January 10, 1933. One was the son of
the Mayor oi Osaka and nearly all were
students and sons and daughters of
middle-olass families (page 36).
48:EJL

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo, July 6, 19ss.
No. 459.
Subject:
Monthly Renort on Conditions in Japan
during the Month of June, 1933.
EASTERY EURUPEAN AFFAIRS
Mu 17 1933
COP SENT TO
2
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ON.I. AND M. I. D.
PH
894.01
Dabieron of
Soptomher 9 1933
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
WUL 1933
The Honorable
Ma
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
ith refer nee to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 3, 16,  transmit herewith the tmbasny's monthly
r port oniton
month f J ne, 1333.
losure:
coort
to begation,
FILED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1933.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
IUDBX
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STAT
(a) Ceremonies and Visits of Goodwi2l.
(b) Japanese Friendship for the United
States Increasing.
(c) Japanese Reaction to Viscount
Ishii's Talks at Washington
(d) The Proposed Japanese-Ameriean
Arbitration Treaty
7,8
(e) Jepan's Reply to the President's
World Peace Appeal
8
(ee) The Nielsen Case.
9,
(f)
Anti-American Agitation.
9,10
(g)
Report that a new Ambassador would
soon be Appointed to the United
States has been denied.
10,
II.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a)
The World Economic Conference at
London
11,12,13,14
(b)
Tariff Truce.
14,15
(c)
Relations with the British Empire..15,16,17,18
(d)
The Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway
by the Soviets.
18,19,20
(e)
The Alleged Shooting of Japanese
Fishermen in Knmchatka.
.20,21,22
(f)
"Manehukuo"
22,23,
Relations With China.
23,24
(h)
Contemoluted Fypnsion of Jananese
Foreign Service..
24,25
Etni poian rince Desires Japanese
Bride..
25,
ITI

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
Index
(2)
..t
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
The Seiyukai and the Cabinet..
2807
(b)
Japanese Navy to be Expanded.....
29
(c)
Presidency of the House of Peers. 29,50
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nil.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a)
The Budget for 1934-5.
30,
(b)
Increased Taxes During the next
Fiscal Year.....
30,31
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a)
Effect of the Depreciation of the
Dollar.
32,
(b)
Japanese Internal Monetary
Conditions..
33,
(c)
A Change of Policy of the Mitsui
Interests.
33,
(d)
Foreign Trade for First Half of
1933.
34,
(e)
Miscellaneous Industrial and
Financil Notes.
34,
VII.
AUTIVTTTLS OF AMRAN CO EERCIAL THPRECTS:
H11.
X.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
Index.
(3)
Page.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
(a)Communism.
36
(b)Kyoto University Incident.
36,37
(c)Japanese Peers Protest Agenda of
Inter-Parliamentary Union.
37,
(d)Many American-born Japanese return to
Japan for Education.
.37,38
(e)Narcotic Smugglers.
.38.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) Ceremonies and visits of Goodvill
The month of June opened with
ceremonies and visits which provided opportunities fes
pressions of friendly feeling between Japan mnd the ni
states. The first, in chronological order, was the visit
Japan of Bishop James deWolf Perry who arrived in May.
Perry was welcomed not only as the Presiding Bishop of the
Protestant Episcopal Church, conducting an investigation or
his church's very important missions in Japan, but also as
grandnephew of Commodore Matthew Galbraith Perry. He tra-
velled extensively throughout the country inspecting the
missions and was the object of several friendly gestures
indicating the honor in which the Japanese hold the name of
Commodore Perry. One of the most notable events of his so-
journ in Japan was the visit to the fishing village of
Kurihama where the collateral descendants of Commodore Perry
met the descendants of the lords of the Shogunate ho were
the first to welcome Commodore Perry at the same spot eighty
years ago. The members of the Perry family were Bishop Perry;
his sister, Mrs. Russell; and Mrs. Grew, the Ambassador's
wife, who is also a grandniece of Commodore Perry. The
meeting was witnessed by a large crowd and wide publicity
was given it in Japan.
The principal reeson for Bishop Perry's visit at the
present time was to attend the formal opening of the ne
buildings

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
by the Protestast Episcopal
des part or the buildings
 of 10,000,000 have now b
ttute a medern equipped medical instituticn
thickly populated district of Tokyo, rendaring
ppetant service as a public health center and containing
Narses! College of a very high standard. The institutiq
Bollimg Teusler. The formal opening was the occasion tot emly
for the extension of congratulations to Dr. Teusler but also
for expressions of appreciation on the part of certain seetions
of the Japanese for the medical service rendered Japan at
various times by the United States.
394
In many respects the most happy event of the month was
the visit of Admiral Montgomery M. Taylor, Commander-in-Chief
of the United States Asiatic Fleet, on his flagship, the U.S.S.
HOUSTON.** The vessel was in Yokohama between June 2nd and
9th and in Kobe between June l0th and 14th. The reception
given Admiral Taylor was not only courteous but was very warm
and apparently sincerely enthusiastic. The newspapers showed
an unmistakedly friendly attitude. The reasons for this were
partly personal admiration for Admiral Taylor and partly a
desire to show a friendly feeling toward the United States.
Admiral Taylor's conduct during the Shanghai affair and his
friendship with Admiral Nomura were prime factors. Much
publicity
共
Embassy!s despatch No. 432 of June 17, 1933.
*x
Embassy's despatch No. 446 of June 28, 1933.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.94)
niblind
29JsJ
10
J
m 19so by the U.8.S. wr0kwe.then do
Tayloy. The Japanese Mavy was undeubtedly.
anxious te accord the American officers a hearty
im reciprocation for the courteous treatment shom
nese training squadron during its recent visit to the
Pacific Goast. In addition to these motives for the pe
attentions to the Admiral and the other officers ith him
is quite likely that a responsible group of Japanese prritimls
wished to take advantage of this occasion to do something to
counteract the effects of the anti-American agitation, which
has been carried on in Japan during the past eighteen months.
The press gave attention to the 24-hour visit to Tolyo
on June 5th of Governor- General Murphy of the Philippino
8118.001
Islands. He called on various Japanese government officials
d: ing his stay and appears to have made a very favorable
1mpression on all who met him.
Another American-Japanese gesture of friendship was made
when the Ambassador contributed an inscription commemorating
the visit of Townsend Harris to a temple in Izu on his historic
journey from Shimoda to Edo in 1857. An inscription was re-
cuested by the abbot of the temple and he and 27 members of
the congregation signed a letter of thanks addressed to the
Ambassador after he forwarded it to them.*
The month ended with the presence in Japan of a delegation
of Boy Scouts from the Hawaiian Islands. They are travelling
throughout the country and are being given a very cordial
reception by their fellow scouts in Japan.
(b)
* Embassy's despatch No. 473 of June 17, 1933.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
ldng
arm welcome ascorded visitin
the ofricials and the newspapers of Jep
above, are evidences of the marked impro
tese attitude toward the United States.
go the events enumerated would probably have
less agreeable attention, but during the last meath
more conditions have changed. Just as the anti-Americ
agitation gave signs of having been fomented by qerta
army circles, so the pro-Amarican feeling 1s appapently
partly traceable to official sources.
A number of factors are responsible for the change
The recent outburst against the British on account of the
abrogation of the Indo-Japanese trade agreement and th
raising of the tariff barriers in different parts of the
British Empire has contributed toward the revived good
feeling toward the United States. For many years tho
Japanese have apparently considered the British their best
friends in the family of nations. Many of them have no
apparently decided that a conflict of commercial interests
will always prevent a continuance of this friendship and
they are consequently looking to the United States to take
the place of their former allies. ** This has been facilitated
by the restraint exercised by the new American administration
in the matter of criticising Japanese policy. Although
several
Embassy's telegram No. 114, June 8- 11 a.m.
兴
Embassy's despatch No. 451 of June 30, 1933.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
tam polioy has not Yeally
is the feeling that the American Goves
producing what seemed a year ago to be pesty.
in the form of speeches and letters oriticizins
One Japanese newspaper recently attributed the
relations between the two countries to the aation
American "pacifists", who saw their country"headed
a war because of the policy of the previous adminf
The reportedly cordial reception given to Viseow
the American President was greatly appreciated by
Japanese public.
The anti-American agitation which formerly appoared
to be carried on by a certain section of the Army has
apparently ceased. General Araki was recently quoted as
having said that America has begun to show "sincerity"
toward Japan. The Army got its appropriations for the
Manchurian campaign and carried out its policy in China
without a clash with a western nation. It is possible
that, if the Army wishes to present the public with
another "bogey" in order to secure their appropriations
for next year, the anti-American propaganda will be
started again. However, there are signs that they will
find an "enemy" elsewhere this time.
Japan's withdrawal from the League of Nations
followed by the steps taken by sections of the British
Empire

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
to proteot their industries hs
apparently feel that their only chance l1s
moting better relations with the Unitad state
papers which were criticising the United Stat
months ago are now calling attention to the lod
friendship" between Japan and the United Statos
of approaching negotiations of an arbitration
the United States were given wide publicity in the
press and were enthusiastically welcomed on all sidos.
Washington.
Available reports in Japan regarding the converatis
between the President and Viscount Ishii are very mesgre.
Several special correspondents in Washington telegraphed
reports to their newspapers and the Foreign Office spokesmn
made a few statements. All reports, statements, and rumor
were eagerly seized upon by the Japanese press and fully
commented upon.
The apparent cordiality shown by the President was
much appreciated by the Japanese who have become accustomed
to expect criticism from Washington. The Foreign Office
spokesman announced one day that the questions of immigra-
tion and naval ratios were not discussed. This eliminated
two of the matters on which differences were likely to arise.
Much publicity was given to the report that the President
appeared to consider the Menchurian incident as closed
and did not want to bring up the matter in his conversations.
It was emphasized that the President's proposal against
the

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
1
of troops aoress
directed at Europe and not at the Far
In their editorials, the NICHI MICmI and
TomlumI were friendly and optimistic regardim
of the conversations, the AsanI was pessimistic
and the HOCHI SHIMBUN was skeptieal.
(d) The Proposed Japanese-American Arbitratim
During the last month the Japanese press hms
many stories about the possibility of the negotiatio
arbitration treaty between Japan and the United States
story first appeared in print on June l0 and was probably
in the nature of a tnial balloon. The first report
that the President and Viscount Ishii had discusset
matter in Washington. The Foreign Office subsequently
denied this but stated that it was considering the desirability
of proposing such a treaty. Later it was stated that it woul
not be proposed until after the termination of the London
Conference because the American Government had indicated
that it did not wish to discuss the matter while the con-
ference is in session.
The Foreign Office based its desire to conclude this
treaty on the Imperial Rescript issued upon Japan's with-
drawal from the League of Nations, but the newspapers
interpreted the move to me:n a chinge from reliance upon the
traditional friendship with Great Britain toward friendship
with the United States. The proposal has been well received
by the press of Japan. Apparently the terms of the treaty to be
proposed are somewhere between the Root arbitration trea-
ties and the Bryan treaties for the advancement of peace.
Some
Embassy's telegram No. 119, June 17- Noon and despatch
No. 448 of June 28, 1933.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
if put into effect,
States from participation in
Aecording to this, Japan wenld have thn.W
agrew to a Japanese "Monrce Doctrine" for Ass
ragial equality, thus doing amay with immigra
tions; matters of "national honor" and "vital
would be excluded from the treaty. Hosever, 1t 
to believe that, if a treaty is proposed, it will com
provisions such as these.
(e) Japan's Reply to the President's World P
The reply of the Japanese Government to the
Peace Appeal of May 16 was cabled to the Japanese Ambassader
at Washington on June 6.* It merely expressed in the most
general terms the hope that the economic conference and the
disarmament conference would accomplish their objectives and
stated that the Japanese Government would present its views
on " the different steps detailed in the President's mossage"
as n the occasion offers". The reply was not sent by the
Emperor to whom the original message was addressed, but by
the Government. By the time the reply was sent other matters
were engaging the attention of the press and there were few
comments. Those that did appear endorsed the reply as
expressing Japan's ideals of cooperation with other nations
in spite of her withdrawal from the League. However, they
approved the omission of any endorsement of the details
of
* Embassy's telegran No. 113, June 6- 9 p.m.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
2
0
siwle to rule all the werld
teremtyped agreement and that Japan holds
the Far East.
() The Hielsen Case.
10
Pursuant to the Department's instructions
on June 10 made representations to the Foreigm Office
behalf of Reverend Nielsen who is held by bandits im
The Danish Chargé d'Affaires in Tekyo also made repr
tioms. Dr. Nielsen, an American citizen and a membor of
Danish Lutheran Mission, was captured by the bandits in Aprik
and the Japanese have been negotiating for his release. Dus
to the length of time which has elapsed some concern is meing
felt for his safety. The Foreign Office replied to the recent
representations that the Army authorities in Manchria are
doing their best to effect Dr. Nielsen's release.
(f) Anti-American Agitation.
Although the outstanding feature of Japanese-American
relations during the month of June was the increasing friendly
feeling shown by the Japanese, yet there were some evidences
of anti-American agitation.
Certain Japanese newspapers published a report
allegedly given out by the Foreign Office, and based upon a
telegram from the Japanese Minister to China,that half of
893.48
the fifty million dollar loan recently made to China by the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation is to be used for the
purchase
* Embassy:s telegram No. 115, June 10- 8 p.m.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
1SJE
to
of arms and ammition fre
Japanese appear to be very susplcious
are omly too ready to believe that it 
or military agreement between China and the
The Tokyo ASAHI has published several bitt
of the United States during the month. It efu
any faith in the apparent cordiality with whioh
raceived Viscount Ishii and thereby produced a di
the tune of friendliness being played by most or the
at that time. It has criticized the American policy
London from the beginning of the economic conrerane
Finally, it attacked the United States very strongly
reported decision to build two naval bases on the Pacirie
coast and to strengthen the navy in general.
(g)
Report that a new Ambassador would soon be appointed
to the United States has been denied.
On June 1l the press of Tokyo reported that the Foreim
701.9411
Minister had asked Mr. Kojiro Matsukata to be Ambassador to
the United States. It was stated that Japan needed at
Washington at the present moment a man with wide business
experience. Mr. Matsukata was at one time President of
the Kawasaki Dockyard Company and more recently acquired
notoriety by concluding with the Soviets a contract for
the purchase of petroleum. However, an end was put to the
report by a firm denial from the Foreign Office that the
Government had any intention of recalling Mr. Debuchi and
a denial from Mr. Matsuk ta thut he had been approached on
the subject.
* Embassy's telegram No. 120, Jume 19-noon.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
LITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNT
Dyring the month of June the 'Jap
o to follow the moves preparatory to the
the World Economic Conference and later the procee
the Conference itself by means not only of the pream.ri
but also of statements made from time to time by thai
government officials. There was a general feeling.
problems tackled during June did not primarily concor
However, the Japanese were watching with interest
moves made by the United States and the European mations
regard to war debts, stabilization, etc.
After the conclusion of Viscount Ishii's talks at
Washington and prior to the convening of the conference
Japanese Government spokesmen announced to the prees that
Japan would propose that the Conference outlaw the economic
boycott, such as China has been practising against Japan.
However, before the conference actually met it was stated
that due to the lack of sympathy with Japan's position
evidenced by the Powers Japan would refrain from beinging
the matter up at the conference and would deal with it
without the intervention of third powers. It is difficuIt
to see how the Chinese boycott could have been discussed
without bringing into the discussion the entire question of
Chinese-J panese relations and the Japanese undoubtedly
would prefer not to start such discussions at the present
moment. For months the military have been insisting upon
the

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
the advisability of Japan's negeti
and they would therefore naturally or
question at London. Moreover, mueh dmbas
dction of the Japanese spinners in declaring
on Indian cotton. This definitely forced the Japen
delegation at London to alter its plans.
Previous to the convening of the conference Jap
Government spokesmen stated that President Roosevolt and
Viseount Ishii had agreed on a policy of unconditional
most favored nation clauses in treaties and commeroial
pacts and that the American and Japanese delegations would
insist on this at the Conference.
Finance Minister Takahashi, in a press interview,
stated that he favored the creation of an internationaI
currency to set:le international accounts. He said that
this would necessitate the establishment of an inter-
national clearing house whose duties would be to keep
exchanges stable. The Minister put forward this sug-
gestion in commenting upon a statement reported to have
been made by Viscount Ishii in which he expressed the
hope that there would be an early return to the gold
standard in all the countries of the world.
From time to time various reports have appeared in
Japan r garding the British-American desire to stabilize
the yen. The first report was that it was proposed to
stabilize the yen exchange at 35 cents. The Japanese
press came out str ngly ugainst that, terming it too nigh.
A later ro osal that the stabilized rate be 25 cents
drew

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
U
4
re favorable oomeenta, The
d the press correspondeats that
the Ten would naturally remain stable. if t
Ameriean cross rate were stabilized.
that the Anglo-Japanese rate has remained retm
stable for several months and that the doclin or
dollar is the unstable factor.
The proposal for a l0% horizontal cut in tarifr
which was alleged to have been made by a member of t
American delegation was not supported by the Japanose
They claim that they have not formulated a nem tarif
since l9ll and therefore should not be expected to lower
them in as great a proportion as the nations which raised
their duties after the war. Foreigners in Japan refute
the Japanese contention on this point, stating that the
Japanese tariff has been moved upward considerably by
piece-meal methods. However, the Government spokesmen made
it clear that although Japan favors very much the lowering
of tariffs by the other nations of the world, especially
those to whom she wishes to sell her products, she will hold
out against tampering ith her own tariffs.
The proposal that the gold reserves of the central
banks of the world be reduced to 25% of the currency in
circulation was welcomed by Japan, her gold supply being
r.ther low.
The American at itude tow rd the war debt question
and the matter of  t bilization received some comment
from the Japanese ore uring the month of June. The
HOCHI

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
States during recent
sbiticized the United States in discussing
TOKYO ASAHI has attacked the Uaited St
Great Britain,- the former for its attitude on
and stabilization and the latter for its Bmpire
policy initiated at Ott@wa. The JIJI has been Loud in
praises of the stand of the United States and, espoi
its proposal before the economic commission for reduetim
of tariffs and abolition of other impediments to the fIom
of commerce.
(b) Tariff Truce.
Although the Japanese Government authorized the
Japanese Ambassador to accept in principle the tariff truc
proposal made on May l8th in the Organizing Committee of tho
World Economic Conference, difficulties appear to have
arisen subsequently which almost caused Japan to withhold
her formal accession to the agreement. The cause of the
difficulties is stated to have been the fact that various
sections of the British Empire where Japan enjoys a market
for her goods either failed to adhere to the truce or else
did so after they had raised their tariffs. Important
commercial interests in Japan objected to the Government's
having made such a hasty decision in favor of the truce.
It was therefore decided that before formal adoption could
be effected the matter would have to be approved by the
Privy Council.
On June 28 the Privy Council gave its formal approval,
subject

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
at to three res
hat Japan will not be bound by
other nations, sigmatories to the trace
reserves Japan's freedom to impose retalim
duties. The third permits Japan to renounee
in case of emergency before it expires. The press
Tokyo has been unanimous in pointing out the obviou
fact that the reservations make the agreement
The exclamations of the press amounted almost to ridioul
that the Japanese Government should adhere to the trud 
such an ineffective manner. The only explanation is thit
after the Cabinet had accepted the truce some kind of ror
approval had to be given. Approval of the agreement with
nullifying roservations was the only way out.
(c) Relations with the British Empire.
There has been a slow development of anti-British
741.94
feeling in Japan since the League began consideration of
the Manchurian affair.* The Japanese evidently expected
British support in the League and were hurt when it was not
forthcoming. Until recently the feeling was confined to
official circles but the abrogation of the Indo-Japanese
commercial treaty followed by similar action in other parts
of the British Empire caused an outburst in the vernacular
press.**
When the month of June opened there appeared to be some
hope for settlement of the Indian question by a conference
at
* Embassy's despatch No. 451 of June 30, 1933.
* See Monthly Political Report for May.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.95)
-16 -
at Simla. However, the matter was further complioat
when the Government of India announced an inerease or fre
50 to 75 percent ad valorem in the emergeney specific duty
on plain grey cotton cloth of non-British origindue
to the depreciation of the Japanese yen and also to the
pressure of Japanese competition". Turning a deaf ear to
official advice and sober counsels the executive committee
of the Japan Cotton Spinners' Association, in extraordinary
session, passed a resolution on June 8 demanding an im-
mediate boycott of Indian cotton. This action was followed
by similar action by the Japan Raw Cotton Dealers Associa-
tion, the Japan Cotton Weavers' Association, and the Japan
Cotton Textile Dealers' Association. The resolution finally
passed on June 13 at & general meetin: of the first-mentioned
organization included the following points:
1. Member companies of the Spinners' Association shall
r Prain from "aking any new contrects for the purchase
of raw cotton from Indiu on  nd after June 13.
. Member com  nies sh Il notify the Association on or
before June 16 of the quantities of Indian raw cotton
which they had contracted t buy previous to June 13,
and on Which aelivery had not been made on June 13.
The prese of Jupan  uer lly supported the action of
t i rere though  w ted sut that the Japanese would
Lodl ns. The Jaoumese Government
Wasbvi.ury
by the action of the spinners not
only in its ntvion win br'tain but aiso, s is pointed
it olsewhere in tni  ort, in its len: to he ve the com-
nu n Confer nce. The
Cobinet

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
tariff on oartain i
However, it is difficult to single
ducte mhich are imported only from Britaim.
tariff law provides for retaliatory tariffs only
other countries aim higher tariffs direetly at
goods alone and it is contended that the raises im
in India and elsawhere do not especially designate
goods.
Meanwhile, preperations for the Simla conference
been going on. The Japanese Government appointed r Bots
Sawada, former chief of the Japanese Bureau of the League
of Nations, to be its principal delegate. A complication
developed when the Indian Government announced that the Ind
delegation would have no power to sign anagreement; that any
agreement entered into at Simla would have to be referred
to London for formal approval. The Japanese hope to have it
understood before the conference convenes that any agreement
made at Simla will be effective and the subsequent referenee to
London only formal.
Besides the question of the importation of Japanese
goods into India there is the matter of Britain's abrogation
of the Anglo-Japanese trade agreement applicable to West
Africa, mentioned in last month's political report, and the
more recent increase in the textile tariffs of the Federated
Malay

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.94)
(1,
工
Malay States. The last-mentioned British protebtorats
raised its tariff on cotton, linen, rayon, and mixed.
oloth of non-British origin. Its action has beon atrong
protested by the Japanese Consul General at Singapore,
under the authorization of his Foreign Office. The Japa-
nese now hope that, simultaneous with the Simla Conferene
a conference will be held in London to consider the matter
of Japanese commerce with Great Britain and her colonies,
and protectorates, other than her dominions and India. This
is being negotiated by Mr. Chokiuro Kadono, financial adviser
to the Japanese delegation to the London Conference. Howover,
as the month ends the press reports from England do not offer
much promise of agreement between the Japanese and Lancashire
interests, not to mention the infant textile industries of
Britain's colonies. The two conferences may be held but
the prospect of a hayoy solution of their problems is not
bright. A rirst-cl ss trade war is appearing on the horizon.
(r (a)
The Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway by the
Soviets.*
Negotiations for the sale of the Chinese Eastern
Railway, or the North Manchuria Railway, as it is now called by
761.77
"Manchukuo", begun in Tokyo on June 27. It is oronosed that
the Soviets sel! their interests in this railway to "Manchukuo"
but the negotiations  re being carried on in the presence of
the J anese. The ini:ial sension of the conference was at-
to ud by the Japanose Minicter for Forei n Affairs, Count
Uchida
35  Jum 30, 10.
Embasy

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
19
who delivered a welcoming, address.
Assuming that by sending a delegatien to dokya
disouss the matter the Soviets indicate their sinperSty
wanting to sell the railway, the principal questiéh
would seem to be one of price. There is reported to be 
divergence between the two parties on this matter. he orla
wish to base the price on the original cost of the ra
while "Manchukuo" wishes to use the present, or probable future
earning power as the basis. The events of the last year and a
half in Manchuria have already considerably reduced the earning
power of the railway and the plans to build parallel lines
threaten to reduce it still more in the future. Consequently
the Soviet and Japanese bases of price-fixing are very far apart.
However, Japan and its ward would probably be willing to pay
something in order to rid their territory of Soviet-owmed
property and Soviet policy during recent months would lead one
to believe that it might desire to do away with one of the
causes of friction with its neighbor to the southward.
Among other problems whicn arise in connection with the
negotiations is the cuestion as to the extent of Soviet
interests in the railway. The Soviets claim that they, as
successors to the Czarist Government, own the railway entirely
or in part. The Japanese claim th t the Russians only enjoyed
a right to operate the railway jointly with the Chinese, but
that the ownership is vested in China, or "Manchukuo". In
this conuection the uestion trises as to who assumes the
obligations of the railway after its sale.
Another

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
20
Another matter to be settled is the matter of
other,interests of the Soviets in North Manchuria.I
Japanese wish the purchase to include the tharves,
and other property owmed there by the Soviets. They tlaim
that the railway has been weed to feed Manchuria with mroa
propaganda and Soviet influence would not be entirely ounted
unless this other property were taken over by "Manchukuo", or
Japan.
A side-issue to the sale of the railway, which may be
said to be more important in some respects than the sale
itself, is the question of Soviet recognition of "Manchukuo".
By negotiating with the new regime, rather than with China
who is the other party to the treaties governing the railway,
the Soviets certainly imply recognition of "Manchukuo's"suc-
cession to Chinese rights in Manchuria. If any agreement
is signed it is difficult to see how the Russian regime can
avoid terming it comolete acceptance of "Manchukuo" at its
own valuation. For such recognition "Manchukuo" , or Japan,
might be willing to raise her monetary bid considerably.
As the month closes the conference regarding the sale
of the railway has just begun nd it is imoonsible to predict
its outcome.
()
The A Leted Shooting of Juoanese Fishermen in
Kamehatka.*
As the month  oses the Jaoanese appear to be making an
Issue of the alleged thootin? I three of their fishermen off
the coast or komehatka. They luim to have evidence that
.lid tn shooting and they
demand
45:

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
-21
demand an apology and compensation from the Soviets. The
matter appears to be complicated by the fact that a Japanese
destroyer rushed to the scene after the affair was reported
and carried off the bodies of the men as well as all other
evidence. It is difficult to know how the Soviet agents will
be able to conduct an investigation. The Soviets havo pro-
tested the entry into Soviet territorial waters of the Japa-
nese armed vessel. However, the Japanese reply that the
vessel remained outside the three mile limit and only a
party of unarmed men went ashore.
The Soviet and Japanese fishermen off the coast of Kam-
chatka are engaged in strenuous competition and forcible methods
to gain their respective purposes are not unknown. This may
be just one of many incidents of the same nature. The Japa-
nese Government may be seizing upon this case to push its
subjects' interests in those fields.
The haste with which the Japanese destroyer rushed to the
scene after the  lleged shooting and a subsequent controversy
between the spokesman of the Foreign Uffice and the Tokyo
correspondent of TAfs news ageney us to whether the former
stated in a press interviev that the destroyer had actually
entered Soviet territorial waters hove caused some people
to tok upon t
usoicion. It has some ear-
marks of an nt ured by the Jaoanese naval vessel
on the srot. wuni h Toky Is being foreed to back up. A member
in Polyo has orivately informed

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
The Japanese attitase
wesks has given some reasen to
Boviet's apparent desire to avoid trouble at
in reality not easing their pesition.
(r) "Manchukuo".
After the projected purchase of the Chines
Eastern Railway,the principal matter being negotiat
Japan and her ward during the month is the proble
abolition of extraterritoriality. When the "Mameh
regime was set up the Japanese talked and wrote a grot
deal about this matter.In accordance with their promi
to the inhabitants of Manchuria a conference was commenced
in Hsinking on June 17. The Japanese Government spokosn,
according to what aopears in the press, are less enthusiasti
when speaking about abolishing extraterritoriality than they
were a year ago. They now advise the new regime to con-
clude speedily the necessary legislation and to enforce it
for a period before the abolition of the Japanese consular
courts is considered. When this stage has been passed
the Japanese spokesmen promise that a conference will be
held to conclude an agreement regarding a system of
security during the period of transition, after which a
period of three years will elapse before the two-year
process of abolishing extraterritoriality will be started
as concerns the principul cities. The same sources state
that

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
t11
Judging from what is heard in Tokye the
conferenee in Msinking can determine very littie
statements issued to the press here indicate that
present Japan will only give certain vague promise
be fulfilled in the future. The calling of the cob-
ference is undoubtedly calculated to create the impra
abroad that "Manchukuo" has almost advanced to the ata
where she can be trusted to manage her oum judicial effal
Mr. George Bronson Rea, who recently returned from
Geneva where he had gone on behalf of "Manchukuo",has
informed a member of the staff of this Embassy that he
intends soon to leave for Washington where he hopes to
advance the cause of his principals.
(g) Relations with China.
The news of the Sino-Japanese military truce in
193.94
North China was received with satisfaction by most elements
in Japan, as they believed that it meant a revival of
friendly relations and of trade with China. Some sections
of oninion doubted the sincerity of the Chinese, and there
were hints that assistance would be given to Chang Kai-shek
in the unification of China should he show a friendly
attitude toward Japan. Foreign observers in Tokyo are some-
what puzzled as to Japan's immediate objective in North
China, as definite plans to place Pu Yi on the Dragon
Throne or to set up a Government independent of Nanking
have apparently been dropped. It is believed that a simple
pol1cy

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
or in Hanking which will sonse
regard to "Manchukuo".*
According to the Japanese press
military truce was followed by a change in
pelioy of China toward Japan. The Japanes
at Nanking reported to his government that the. ch
had decided not to enact the anti-dumping tarimr
Japan which she had threatened. Furthermore
press reported that the anti-Japanese boycott in
had eased.
Toward the latter part of the month the press raposte
anti-Japanese agitation in Fukien Province necessitatims
Japanese warships to stand in readiness to go to the reli
of Japanese subjects there.
(h). Contemplated Expansion of Japanese Foreign
Service.
In spite of the Cabinet's announced opposition
894.021
to any increase in the budget for next year, the Foreign
Minister is strongly advocating an increase in the Japa-
nese consular and diplomatic services. He and his sup-
porters believe such a step necessary in order that Japan
may give more attention to "economic diplomacy". A desire
to find more markets in the Near East for Japanese cotton
goods is undoubtedly one of the motives behind this pro-
posal.** According to a press announcement on the last day
of June, the Foreign Uffice wants to open new legations in
Egypt
* Embassy's despatch No. 426, of June 9, 1933.
No. 440,  June 21, 1933.
i

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
Egypt, Abyssinia, Afghanistan, and Columbia; to sont
new Commercial Counselors to New York and Hsinking:
send new commercial secretaries to Batavia, Bangkok,
Ottowa, Sydney, Cairo, Buenos Aires, and Paris.
(1) Ethiopian Prince Desires Japanese Bride.
For several weeks the Japanese press has carried
stories of the request of Prince Lij Alaya Abeba, nephew
of the Emperor of Abyssinia, to have a Japanese bride sent
884.0
to him. The prince visited Japan last year in the company.
.4345
of the Foreign Minister of his country. It is said that
afus
after his return home his longing for a Japanese maiden
was such that he requested"imperial sanction" for his
marriage to a Japanese. He has now requested a Tokyo
lawyer to find him a suitable bride. As a result of
wide publicity throughout Japan the press reports that
the lawyer has received  plications from twenty Japanese
girls who desire union with the imperial line of Ethiopia.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
II.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a) The Seiyukai and the Cabinet.
The Seiyukai Party has been split into two faction
over the question of supporting the Saito Cabinet. The
younger element, mostly members of the lower house, are
dissatisfied at not being in complete control of the
Government and wish their party to come out in opposition
to the present regime. The more conservative group, under
the leadership of Dr. Suzuki, the President of the Party,
desire to continue to support the Cabinet. After the an-
nouncement that Finance Minister Takahashi would not re-
sign, which was reported in last month's political report,
Dr. Suzuki issued a statement in which he said that the
Seiyukai, which had formerly given full support to the
policy of the Government, would henceforth undertake to
criticize it and even to oppose it. This statement was
not strong enough for the younger element and they threaten
to disrupt the party. Dr. Suzuki, the President, has
decided to adopt a policy of watchful waiting.
According to Dr. S.W. Washio, who writes in the JAPAN
ADVERTISER, this dissension in the ranks of the Seiyukai
assures the prolongation of the life of the Cabinet. He
believes that it would be extremely difficult for a united
Seiyukai to overthrow the present Cabinet and that the task
has been rendered harder by the differences of opinion
among the members of that party. He states that the
conduct of the leaders of the party during recent weeks
has

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
has discredited it with the a ountry and done it serioms
harp.
Some Japanese political commentators attribite the
recent activity of the Seiyukai in trying to ovorthro
the Saito Cabinet and set up a government of their on
to pressure from the capitalists who have had enough of
military domination. According to this theory the capi-
talists ceased to contribute money to the political parties
when it became clear that the military controlled every-
thing but they have now resumed doing it, believing in the
possibility of undermining the power of the army. The
recent controvers  between the Saito Cabinet and the
Seiyukai is interpreted to be a fight between the military
and the capitalists. The commercial interests who dominated
party politics before Soptember l93l are said to have been
deprived by the military of their former privileges. More-
over, it is contended that they view with longing the ripe
field of Manchuria where they would like to turn Japan's
dominant position into monetary returns for themselves.
The army is not offering enough inducement to Japanese
capital in Manchuria but the capitalists believe that with
politicians in control again Manchuria would be a "gold
mine" for them. The exponents of this theory do not at-
tribute very laudable motives to the apitalists who are
supposed to support the Seiyukai. They are accused of
wishing only the return of the conditions of corruption
and graft which the army has done so much to eliminate.
For this reason, in adaition to others, the public re-
mains satisfied with the Saito cabinet and the control
by

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
28
bythe military.
General Ugaki, the Governor General of Korea.
former Minister of War in several Minseito Cabineta
turned to nis post after spending a month in Tokyo. o
tensibly on business connected with the administratin.
of Chosen. However, it is the general belief that he as
looking over the political scene. As reported in last
month's political report, he had an interview with Gonerl
Araki and it was at first reported that they had patchid
up their differences. However, the hopes of the military
that the two factions in the Army were about to unite were
eventually found to be unwarranted. The truth finally
leaked out. In spite of the preparations made by thoir
respective groups of friends and supporters, when the two
leaders came face to face, their personal antipathy, each
for the other, became dominant and they parted more opposed
than ever.
General Ugaki is generally identified with the Minseito
although he is not : purty member. He has supporters among
the Seiyukai also, but the Minseito, backed by strong Osaka
interests, are credited with the current agitation to make
him the succesnor of Viscount Saito. The Osaka merchants
are said to desire : government conciliatory toward China
where they have import:nt com ereial in crests and General
Ugaki has been picked to lead them. However, the General
has returned to Korea where he will likely stay for some
time. An Army ofrir recently told a member of the staff
of this Embasry that if lener Ugaki should ever make any
move to become remier he would meet the fete of former
Premier

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
- 29 -
Premier Inukai.
The followers of General Araki appear to be firmly
entrenched in the War Uffice and to wish to keep the
Saito Government in power. General Araki is given much
of the credit for having persuaded Finance Minister
Takahashi not to resign. However, he made one very
significant statement during the political crisis to the
effect that the Army doesn't care which party is in
power as long as the "national policy" is continued.
(b) Japanese Navy to be expanded
About the middle of the month the Japanese Navy
Department released to the press its plans for building
u: the navy to the London treaty limits. The plan re-
quires an expenditure of Yen 460,000,000 during a three
year period and Yen 170,000,000 has been requested in the
budget now in preparation for the next fiscal year. This
is obviously a part of Japan's scheme to request a re-
vision of the naval ratios when the London treaty exoires.
(c) Presidency of the House of Peers.
Prince Iyesato Tokugawa, President of the House
of Peers, tendered his resignation on June 8 on the
grounds df poor health nd the termination of a thirty-
year period of mervice. He will soon be 70 years of age
and he was serving his fifth seven-year term as President
of the Upper House. According to political gossip he will
next be appointed Lor Keeper of the Privy Seal in suc-
cession to Count Makino who is expected to retire in the
near

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
-30
near future.
Prince Fumimaro Konoe has been appointed President èr
the House of Peers. He has formerly been Vice President,
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
Nil.
v.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE:
(a) The Budget for 1934-5
The Cabinet has already begun discussion of the budget
for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1934. All indica-
tions point to a budget which will equal, if not surpass, the
one for the present year. The War Department isdomanding
increased appropriations and the Navy Department wants the
same. The Finance Minister hopes to decrease the appro-
priations for theManchurian venture and the relief appro-
priations. However, the army opposes him as regards the
former and the politicians regarding the latter.*
The army states that even though operations along the
Great Wall have ceased, yet there remains the problem of
pacifying the bandits and the necessity of building perma-
nent quarters in manchuria for the Japanese troops. The
announcements made by the War ffice on this matter have
evoked some criticism from the press and there will un-
doubtedly be a great deal of discussion of the matter before
the budget is finally passed.
(b) Increased Taxes during the next fiscal year.
The deficit of one billion yen for the present
fiscal year is being met by a loan and the question has
naturally arisen as to how the equally large deficit for next
year is to be handled. Apparently Finance Minister Takahashi
has
* Embassy's despatch No. 454 of June 30, 1933.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
-30 -
hy been converted to the idea of increasing the ta
to some extent though he does not believe it advissble
to increase them very much as it would tend to theck the
revival of industry. The Army favors the raising of taxe
upon the large incomes and the Seiyukai is reported to be
studying a proposal to raise the taxes considerably, just
to embarrass the Government.*
It is probable that some increase will have to be
brought about in order to satisfy the military and other
radical reactionaries. Japanese industries, excepting
the power companies, have increased their dividends during
the past year and the Government may be forced to raise
the taxes of those who appear to be so prosperous.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
vI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONB:
(This section is based on' informatfon eontri-
buted by the office of the Coméoreial Aftamhl)
(a) Bffect of the Deprecintion of the Dollar.
The value of the Japanese yen in terms of tellar
during the month of June from 24-1/2 cents to 27 cents.
However, the sterling rate was stable at about ls.8d.
The yen transactions with Great Britain are very small in
number and therefore the sterling rate can be considored mor
or less nominal, whereas the trading with the United Statos
represents about 40% of Japan's foreign trade. However,
in spite of this relative unimportance of the sterling
transactions, it is believed that the firmmess of the
sterling-yen rate indicates that the yen has remained
firm, the rise in the dollar rate being due entirely
to the depreciation of American currency.
The Japanese appear not to be worrying much over
the depr  ciation of the dollar. American foreign com-
merce does not compete much with the Japanese in the
latter's principal markets in the Far East. It has been
predicted that Japan's exports to the United States will
be affected; but the reply usually is made that until the
yen reaches 35 cents Japan's exports to the United States
will not be curteiled.
Thedeor ciation of the dollar has clready showed
nigns of hel ing the American import trade into Japan,
especially the automotive trade. Importers of American
cars are very optimistic, having been sufiering greatly
munn! Pon of trade since Japn 1 fi the gold
tomdere im be mber roel
(b)

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.95)
33. -
(b) Japanese Internal Monetary Cenditi
the lowest interest rates that Japan has ever kmom. 
discount rate of the Bank of Japan has been reduced to
3.5%, the lowest in its history. Interest rates on fixed
deposits in first class banks have been reduced from 4:2%
to 3.7%, the lowest on record.
The bonds sold by the Government to the Bank of Japan
have found their way to the other banks, they having no
other place to invest their money. Industries anpear to
have enough capital and the banks cannot get rid of their
surplus funds.
For the first time Government bonds have gone above
par and next month the Government will issue a new series
at 4%, another r cord low.
(c) A Change of Policy of the Mitsui Interests.
A development very significant for the future is
the decision of the Mitsui inter sts to contract their
foreign trade and investments very gradually, and to move
their ca ital t) Japan for investment in Japanese industry.
According to : sta ement m de by a high official of this
orgunizati to a membor of the staff of this Embassy, the
sersone who d termin its po icy are vory optimistie re-
ton of  an in international
trade.
belv tt whe the stage of "diseriminatory
moufeturors will undersell
, unuoubteily expect to
timistic in

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
(d) Foreim Trade fer First Balf of 1933
The preliminary figures for Japan's Toreigm
Muring the six months ending June 80 show that her xpor
were valued at Yen 828,306,000 and her imports
Yen 1,012,673,000. This represents an adverse balance
of Yen 184,367,000, which is a decrease of Yen 80,663,000
as compared with the adverse balance of last year.
(e) Miscellaneous industrial and financial notes.
The Japanese Silk Association has definitely decided to
spend six million yen on publicity in the United States and
its representatives will sail within a few weeks for the
purpose of consulting with silk men in America regarding the
manner of spending this sum.
The rayon industry of Japan is in the midst of a boom.
All the leading companies are doubling and trebling their
capital.
Wholesale and retail comnodity prices rose during June,
having been aropoing for several months.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.93)
II.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMERCIAL
N11.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
VIII.
N11.
JX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
N11.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.94)
MISCRLLANEOUS:
(a) Comminism.
Bome surprise has been caused in Japan by the annolunge
ment that Gaku Sano and Sadachika Nabeyama, two well-kmown
communists serving sentences of life imprisonment, have re-
nounced their communist beliefs. They are reported to have
come to the obvious conclusion that communism offers no appeal
for the relief of the working class in Japan. In spite of
much propaganda communism has appealed more to Japanese in-
tellectuals than to the working man. The communists have been
looking for some national crisis in Japan during which they
could precipitate a revolution, but each crisis has been met
by an outburst of nationalist feeling which has completely
drowmed the efforts of the communists.
The lifting of a police ban recently revealed the
fact that 401 persons were arrested in Kyoto between September
3 of last year and January 10 of this year, all involved in
a communist plot. The son of the Mayor of Osaka was oneof
them and nearly all were students and sons and daughtersof
middle class, rather than l: bor, families.
(b) Kyoto University Incident.
The incicent in the Kyoto University which was
reported  1 t month's politieel report, has resulted in
the dismise: ! of
ro or Yuki teu Tokikewa for his al-
leged rcieal belief:, writ ings, nd te ching. The Presi-
dent of the Univereity, Ir. Naoshige Konisho, rusigned as a
r.It.
The Mi: istry of E ueation wop its
111m

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
- 37 -
is said to have surprised the Government and, as a con
sequence, Liberals hope that in the future academic fre
dom of opinion will be more greatly respected.
(c)
Japanese Peers Protest Agenda of Inter-
Parliamentary Union,
Officials of the Japanese House of Peers aro.
reported to have decided to lodge a protest against the
Incluton in the agenda of the 29th session of the Inter-
Parliamentary Union to be held in Madrid in Uctober an itom
concerning the status of the League of Nations mandates.
The opinion of the Peers is that if the resolution proposed
by the council of the Union is apnroved it might have an
effect on the Japanese mandates in the South Pacific. There-
fore, they wish to have the matter excluded from the dis-
cussions at Madrid.
(a)
Many American-born Japanese return to Japan
for Education.
In 1931 the number of Am rican-born Japanese children
studying in Japanese schools in Japan was estimated at 30,000;
in June 1933, the estimate was 100,000. It is calculated that
about 60% of the children born in the United States of
Japanese parents are sent to Japan for schooling. This con-
dition is caused by the cheapness of living in Japan, by
the Japanese attachment to their homeland und their Japa-
nese allegiance, by the difficulties experienced by Japa-
nese children educated in American schools in fitting
themselves into the American social order and by the fact
that the Japanese immigrants do not intend, as a rule, to
make their permanent homes in the United States. The chil-
dren are usually brought to Japan when very young, and
although

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.94)
r
ericen citizems, bso
subjests. All of them will not returh to th
states on reaching maturity, but enough will returm
areate a problem on the Pacifio Coast and in the
Bawaiian Islands. The problem will probably not nuur
more than one or two gerfrations, as the Japaneme amil
will probably develop an atachment for the United States
unless Japanese allegiance and attachment is maintained
by infusion of new Japanese blood, such as would be pro-
vided if American citizens of Japanese blood were per-
mitted to bring in Japanese-born wives. This problem.my
lead to race conflicts on the Pacific Coast and hence to
aggravation of ill-feeling between Japan and the United
States.*
(e) Narcotic Smugglers Arrested.
About the miaule of June the Japanese police
made some arrests in Nagasaki which uncovered a band of
smugglers of morphine to the United States. The arrests
were made as a r sult of information supnlied to the Japa-
nese Government by this Embassy.* It is hoped that clues
ave now been found which will enable more arrests to be
made and the drug traffic from Japan to the United States
interrupted.
rmba. sy's
 No. 438 of June 0, 1953
Depertment:
n 1r11n No. 64 or  1.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
Diplomatão
Returning cipher
Address made by
International Congress on the
Deaf.
Diplomatic visa report.
9,
Japanese opinion on the Sino-Japansse
9,
Home leave for Mr. Dickover.
15,
Second quarterly examination of Mr. Sckaler.
429
15,
Letters rogatory.
430
* 16,
Transmitting books for the Depertment.
481
= 17,
Diplomatic visa report.
452
 17,
St. Luke's International Hospital.
433
Memorial for Townsend Harris.
434
 17,
Statistical abstract of the Japanese Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry.
435
17,
Japanese radio stations, interference with
U. S. stations.
Annual Report on Administration of Chosen 1950-52.
436
437
 19,
Requisition for grass seeds.
Increasing tendency of Japanese immigrants in the
438
U. S. to educate their children in Japan.
439
20,
Relief for foreigners who suffered loss during
the hostilities between Japan and China.
440
" 21,
Contemplated expansion in the Japanese
Foreign Service.
441
23.
Diplomatic visa report.
442
26,
Leave of absence for Mr. Turner & Mr. Washington.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.94)
leave for Mr. Date
Firth quarterly ezamimation
Visit of the U.S.s. Housros to
Address mede by the Ambascsder.
Arbitration Treaty, Japan-U. S.
28,
ddress made by the kmbassedor.
29,
Inerease in Embassy's contingent exp
451
50,
Anti-Britiah and Pro-American sentiment in
458
50,
Alleged shooting of three Japanese fim
Soviet territorial waters.
455
50,
Diplomatic visa report.
454
50,
Discussion of Japanese budget for 1954-35.
455
30,
Chinese Eastern Railway.
456
30,
Water works at Harbin.
457
30,
Request for Government publication.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.82)
10,8
Relsce kidmpping
14, noon.
Personal for Mertat frem the
25, 11 a.m.
Resall of Mr. Butte, On
16, moem.
Seeretary Hull's pee in L
119 19, meon.
Rumered Japan-Ameriean art
120 * 10, moom.
Amerisan loam to Chima.
12
, 1l a..
New code tables.
122
* 82, 11 a.m.
125 " 22, 11 a.m.
n
124 " 22, 11 a.m.
n

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
Dospatch o. 459.
Dato: July 6, 1933.
Subject: Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
During the Month of June, 1933.
Summary:
I. The month of June was notable for a series
of visits and ceremonies during which the Japanese
showed an apparently sincere desire to be friendly
with the United States. Bishop James deWolf Perry
was welcomed not only as Presiding Bishop of the Pro-
testant Episcopal Church but as a grandnephew of Com-
modore Matthew Perry. American charity was given
recognition at the formal opening of the new buildings
of St. Luke's International Medical Center. Admiral
Montgomery M. Taylor was given a hearty welcome when
he visited Tokyo and Yokohama on his flagship, the
U.S.S. HOUSTON. The visit of Governor Generai Murphy,
the Ambassador's presentation of an inscription to
a temple in Izu, and the visit of a party of Hawaiian
Boy Scouts have received notable attention from the
Japanese. Among the causes for the marked improvement
in Japanese feeling toward the United States are the anti-
British feeling, the lack of criticism of Japan by
American officials, the cordial reception given Viscount
Ishii by the President, the cessation of anti-American
propaganda by the Japanese army, and the general desire
of the Japanese to gain at least one friend among the
Great Powers. The Japanese appear to be delighted over
the reports of the conversations between the President
and Viscount Ishii and they apparently wish to propose
the negotiation of an arbitration treaty with the United
States. The Japanese Government replied enthusiastically,
though vaguely, to the President's world peace proposal.
Theyepressed a desire to cooperate when the Embassy made
representations regarding the capture of Rev. Nielsen
by Manchnri n bandits. The only noticeable outburst
against the Unitod States occurred in connection with
a reoort that the loan made to China by the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation will be used in part for the purchase
of

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.92)
efrieiaks. The Privy Counell ratirisd the Cabmat
desision te adhere to the Tardff Truse but only mith
pel develepments during June in the controveray betwesan
Japam mnd the British Empire were the raising or mam
cottem. Preparatiems are being made for & conferenée at
Simla regarding Indo-Japenese commercial relstions and
anothey at London regarding other Britishsdapamase som
marelal matteks. Wegotiatioms for the sale of the
Chinese Bastern hailway by the Sovlets to WManchakue"
have edmmemeed at Tokyo. The Japanese appeared at tme
end of the month to be trying to make an incidemt of the
alleged shooting of three Japanese fishermem im mnviet
terrimorial waters off Kamchatke. The Japanese are com
ferring with the "Manchukao" regime regarding the abolition
of extraterritori lity but it is believed thet the former
have no intention of giving up their rights in the near
future. They received some satisfaction from the sigaing
of the milltary truce in North China but there is still
swme question us to what relations will exist in the
ruture. The J: panese For im Brrvaoe will probably be expanded
soon in order to improve the foreign trade promotion work
of the diplom tic nd consulr of ices. An Ethiopian
Prince has been dvertising for a Janenese wife.
III. The Seiyukei Purty 1s  lit over the cuestion of
siving support to the Saito C binet. This may tend to
prolong the lif& of the present Government. Some people
believe that the recent cris's was  fight betw en the
mllitary nd the capitalists, who backed the Cabinet and
the Seiyukai res ectively. Generul Ugaki has raturned
to Koreu :fter looking over the political vitustion in
Jan nd aonarently  cdul  to ke move toward
the Premierendt the reset
t.he J pese N vy
is to b expunded ord ne to tne ress. Prince Tyesato
1 ughPs
 thHouse ofcors.
V.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
v. The Cabinet is discussing the budget for 
fiscal year 1934-5 and it appears that it will hgehl
the-budget for the present year. The great question
hether the deficit next year will be met by a loam,
is being done this year, or by raising taxes, as the
military advocate.
VI. The depreciation of the dollar has not hurt
Japan, whose currency has remained stable as regards the
pound sterling. An unprecedented period of "easy" money
has come to Japan. Interest rates are the lowest on
record. The Mitsui interests reflect the optimism re-
garding the future in their decision to contract their
foreign trade gradually and to concentrate on Japanese
internal industry. Japan's adverse balance for the first
half of 1933 is considerably less than for the same peried
last year. The Japanese silk industry is to finance pro-
paganda in the United States. The rayon industry is
booming. Commodity prices are rising.
X. Prominent Japanese communists have renounced
their former doctrines on the realization that communism
has no appeal to Japanese workers. The incident at Kyoto
University has resuited in the dismissal of a professor
of la for his radical beliefs and the resignation of the
President of the University. The Japanese Peers have
decided to protest the Inter-Parliamentary Union discussing
the mandate question. The education of American-born
Japanese in Japan and theusubsequent return to the United
States may further complicate the race problem on the Pacific
Coast. Certain arr sts in Nagasaki have uncovered a gang
engaged in smuggling morphine into the United States.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 5, 1933.
Tokyo's despatch No. 490 of August
9th transmitting the monthly report for
July is well written. It contains nothing
of importance which has not already been
reported by despatch, but it will repay
reading for those who wish to obtain a
summary of events in Japan during the
month.
Attention ia drawn to the "Manchukuo"
paragraph  saren six. which states that
a reactionary society under the leadership
of General'Tanaka. retired. whe has ex-
pressed haself as being opposed to the
policy of the military element in Man-
churia. The General Tanaka referred to
was the principal military expert of the
Japanese Delegation at the ..ashington
Conference in 192l, and was the great
protege of the late rime inister, General
Tanaka. to whom he was not related in any
way. He was credited with having strongly
opposed the acceptance by Japan of the
naval ratio and of the underteking to
restrict fortifications on certain islands
which are considered to be a part of Japan
proper. Hence the fact that General
Tanaka, who is sunposed to be reactionary
and a member of the conservative group
in the military class, has come out in
opposition

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
1
d the aotions of the present
blique, is of more than passe
reiel possibilities of Tsingtào
me provined with the cooperation
port is true, the so-called Japanese
continental policy seems to be under way
with a vengeance.
The agitation in Japan over the
trade squabble with Great Britain is
not developing so strongly as the
Eabassy had anticipated. The Embassy
believes that the plan of making Great
Britain the object of anti-foreign
agitation is falling through largely
because the instigators, who are the
military, of the agitation against the
United States do not believe that com-
meroial competition makes good material
for a military preparedness campaign.
I have a feeling that the Embassy in
reporting on this matter some months ago
did not accurately estimate the strength
or

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.93)
t of the feeling with regard to
mpotition with Great Britain.
mestion on relations with Prance
e firteen contains some new in-
tion with regard to the interest
The Cabinet has approved the appoint-
wat of a minister to Afghanistan.
N
PE:BHD:AEM

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
Division
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Despatch No. 490.
SEP 5-1933
Date: August 9, 1933.
Rem
Subject:
Monthly Report n Conditions in Japan
during the Mont of July, 1933.
了E了
SJF
Summary:
SKH
I. Japanese-American relations during July
were marked by no incidents of great importance.
Two members of the Embassy staff were involved in
cases of "spy scare". Some Japanese newspapers are
very critical of America's plans for naval expansion
but they have been comparatively friendly to the
United States during the World Economic Conference.
II. Japan's relations with other countries
are equally quiet. The Japanese have followed the
proceedings at London with interest but without
believing that they would be greatly affected by
the economic conference. The Meirinkai, calling
itself a reactionary society, has issued a statement
opposing the policy of the military in "Manchukuo".
Several incidents have occurred between Japan and
Soviet Russia which cause some observers to view
their relations with alarm. Jaoan has protested
against the alleged loans made by western nations
to China and she is greatly concerned over the
activities of Marshal Feng Yu-hsiang. The War Office
has announced the casualties resulting from the
Shanghai and Manchurian incidents; it is making
plans for strengthening Japan's economic position
in North China. Preparations are going ahead for
the Indo-Japanese Conference at Simla and the
British Japanese Trade Conference at London. Some
sections of the Jepanese have been bidding for
FILED
favors from the French, but Franco-Japanese re-
France had laid claim to nine small islets near
Indo-China. Afghanistan will send a Minister to
Japan.
III.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
III. There has been a revival of reports that
the leaders of the Seiyukai and Minseito Parties will
soon enter the Saito Cabinet. The Japanese Army is
planning a reorganization which will entail considerable
expense. The Navy  lso has adopted a program of ex-
pansion. The public trials of the civilians and the
army and navy men inv lved in the assassinations of
the first half of 1932 have attracted much attention in
Japan. Another assassination plot was uncovered by
the police on July 10.
V. The Government is working on the budget for
19 4-5 but there were no important develooments during
the month.
VI.
The yen has remained stable with relation
to gold.
The rice crop has been hard hit by a serious
drought.
The Japanese share and commodity markets
declined badly during July. The Foreign Office is
planning to orgenize a commission to encourage foreign
trade. An oil comnany has been formed to operate a
refinery at D iren. Jupanes officials wish to enter
into trade pacts with various South American countries.
VII. A commercial miscion from Brazil and Uruguay
arrived in Japan early inJuly.
X. Several prominent Jananese communists have
recently "reformed". but the Ministry of Education is
establishin!  "Thought Bureau" to control dangerous
thought. Janan's poouletion has been increasing
alarmingly.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.90)
LEGAL ADVISER
UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA
LOARMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, August 9,
No. 490.
SUBJECT:
donthly neport on Conaitions in Japan
aurin
the onth or July, 1935.
Division of
FAR EASTEAFFAIRS
172
TE
2
SEP I GS
SEP 5-1933
Topy in FE
NE
5
Depertment of State
10
894.00
COPY SENT
RR
O.N.1
1133
894.00PR
P
pu
.R6/68
Ofore af Franamir Adviser
SEP 18 1933
NOV 3 - 1933
PARIMFIISTLEF
DIVISION OF
NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
The Henor ble
DIVISION C
LATIN AMERICAV AFFAIRS
NOV -2 1933
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
wwm
ith refer ne to th Ioo rtnent's instrue-
', I tr nomit herevith
the rmb.ray's
in e  dition. in J pin
NOV 3
For the month or Jury.
FILED
1
noettu ly yours,
Yren
3
anclocure:
port o. 8
Joceph c. Grew.
Copy to ber tion, Peiotng.
Consulate Gener., hangh i.
Consri te Gener , vukaen.
Conste uener , Horbin.
In  uaaruplieate to the Department.
800-Japan. (Co to Co.  te, Lairen

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF JULY, 1933.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
POLITICAL RBLATTONS WITH THE UNITED
(a) Spy Scere
(b)
Japanese Reactipm to Plans. for
American Naval Expansion
(c)
Japanese Comments on America and
the World Economic Conference
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Japan and the London Economic
Conference
58
(b)
"Manchukuo"
(c)
Relations with Soviet Russia
(a)
Japan Protests Loans to China.
10,11
(e)
Japan's Interest in the Activities
of Marshal Feng Yu-hsiang
11
(f)
Miscellaneous Matters Concerned with
11,12,
Sino-Japanese Relations.
(g)
Japanese-British Relations
12,13,,14,15
(h)
Franco-Japanese Relations(General)
15,16
(i)
J. panese Reaction to the French Claim
16,
to Nine Coral Islands
(j)
Afghanistan.
16.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS:
17,
(2)
The Cabinet.
(b)
The Army and the Navy
18,19
(c)
The Trials of Civilian, Military and
19,20,21;
Naval Assussins
(d)
Another Assassination Plot Uncovered by
Tokyo Police.
21,
IV
- COURSE OF LEGISLATION:
N11.
V

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
GOVERNEENT
FINANCE
The.Budget fot 1934-5.
CANERAL FINANCIAL AND MCONONIC CONDITIONS
(a).
Exchange.....
(b)
Lack of. rainfall hits Rice Grop
(c)
The Markets......
(d)
Japanese Diplomacy and her Foreign
Trade
(e)
Formation of Oil Company for
251
"Manchukuo"
(f)
Trade Pacts with South American
25
Countries
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nil.
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Uruguayan nd Brazilian Trade Missions Arrive. 26
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION:
Nil.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
27
(a)Communism.
28.
(b)Population Increase....

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED ST
(a) Spr Scares.
The gestures of cordiality and friendship
for America and Americans on the part of Japan
officialdom and the press, which were reported In
last month's political report, became less marked.
9.4
with the advent of the July heat. In fact,, castual
glances at the press might have indicated that there
is still very much in existence a feeling of suspi
clon, if not of hostility. Two small incidents i1-
lustrate the feeling that apparently still exists
among a section of the Japanese police.
Dr. R. B. Teusler, head of St. Luke's Hospi-
tal in Tokyo, whom the Japanese Foreign Office re-
cognizes as Physician of this Embassy, in accordance
with his annual custom, at the end of June sailed his
small yacht from Tokyo to H yama where he has a sum-
mer home. On the way his yacht was becalmed and was
towed into the small port of Misaki, which is inside
the fortified zone, but is not closed to vessels such
as his. Since that time he has been having trouble
with the police and all sorts of stories have been
printed in the vernacular press accusing him of
espionage. It is reported in the press that he will
be prosecuted under the law which forbids a "foreign
vessel" to carry oassengers and cargo fron one Japan-
nese port to another. The publicity given to Dr.
Teusler's troubles has arawn attention to the Yoko-
hama Yacht Club, most of whose members are American
and

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
And British, A Japanese police official reca
Informed the Secretary or the Club that the
were suspicious because the club has 147
and only 25 boats and every Sunday afternoon tho
not taking part in the races stend on the clubhoust
veranda looking at the naval base across the bay
through spy glasses.
Lieutenant J. R. Sherr, an American army of
Ficer attached to this Embassy for language study,
was the subject of a particularly objectionable story
carried in almost all the Japanese newspapers fn July
in which he was a ccused of spying on munition plants
The story originated with a police officer and had no
b:sis other than that he was seen walking on a public
thoroughfare in the vicinity of a plant. Both the
stories regarding Dr. Teusler and those regarding
Lieutenant Sherr gave prominence to their diplomatic
status and contained pointed references to this Em-
bassy.
During the past year many American army and navy
of icers stationed in the Philinpines and China have
take advantage of the favorable exchange rate to come
to Jepan to spend their enforced leave without pay.
It appears that sections of the Japanese have become
very suspicious of these visits and some of the news-
popers have called attention to the matter.
In practically all the spy incidents that have
occurred during the past year the police have eventually
exonerated

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
exonerated the accused of any intention of apjing
However, the harm 1s done after the original 'stor
1s published. The Japanese government dopartments
always disclaim responsibility for the stories in the
press and point out that they have no control over
them. But the attitude of minor police officials
and the point of view of the press are directly
traceable to the propaganda disseminated by the mili-
tary authorities.
(b)
Japanese Reaction to Plans for American
Naval Expansion.
The Japanese press varies in its reaction to
a4
the American plans for naval construction, but the
dominant theme is that America is making a thrust
711
towards Japan. Most of the criticism seems to be
based on the Japanese thesis that the Japanese navy
is meint ined only for self-defense :nd that any foreign
211.30
power challengin J-pan's supr m cy in bc stern waters
is threatenin the ner ce. ack of all agitation
over American n val  l ns is the determination of the
Japanese to better their relative naval standing at
the next conference in lec6. It is hichly unlikely
that they vill submit to a further extensiou of the
5:5:6 rutio rb dete.
The statement issued by Mr. Roy Howard, of
the Ccriprs Howard Newspaner Syndicate, on his re-
turh to the United States from a recent trip to
the Orient was given wide publicity in Japan.
.The
comments were P vor ble except regarding thut nart
of the s tatement novocating American naval expansion.
This
* Embassy's despatch No. 480 of July 26, 1933.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
his was thought by some papers to be inednsis-
tont with Mr. Howard's advocacy of closer and.mare
friendly relations with Japan.*
(c)
Japanese Comments on America and the
World Economic Conference.
Japanese newspapers have been very much
divided in their opinion of the attitude of the
United States at the World Economic Conference. The
Tokyo JIJI has put un : violent dcfense of the United
0
States, nointing out the necessity of raising the
world's price levels, lauding America's attempts to
do this by means of inflation, and condemming those
who onoose the United States. The ASAHI also ex-
pressed apnroval of Amorica's final stand against
international stabilization though it attributed the
responsibility for the failure of the conference to
America's change of policy after the preliminary con-
versstions in Wachington. The  trongest defense
of the United States came from Mr. Tokohashi, the
Finance Minister, vho iscued a statement to the
oress on July 16 containing the following remarks:
" President oosevelt did not believe at the
time of the recent oreliminary conversations
at Washington that infletion in America would
proceed so r pioly, :ne he was then inelined
to conclude exchange ratio egreements. Since
inflation has made such her dway und has yield-
ed such satisfactory results, President Roose-
velt hs found it airficult to restrict the ten-
dency. The circumstances led him to reject the
exchnnge ratio grcement. One thing that can-
not be ignored in this connection was America's
indignation at Fronee's attitude toward the
war debts.........
" It is renorted that the Powers are trying
to blame America for causing the failure of the
economic conference. It is not fair to place the
sole res onsibility on America, because America,
a: well as other countries, has her own peculiar
conditions."
Fmbassy's despatch No. 470 of July 13,1933.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
5
conditions."
II. POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Japan and the London Economic Conférence
The Japanese continued during July to
follow with interest the proceedings of the World
Economie Conference at London. However, their dele-
gation appeared to have little of a constructive
nature to offer and it cannot be said that they be-
lieved their country to be vitally interested in the
outcome of the deliberations. At first they were
somewhat concerned over the question of stabiliza-
tion of currencies, fearing that America and the
European nations might attemnt to force Japan to
stabilize the yen before she was rerdy to do so.
However, the collanse of the attempts at stabilization
removed this source of anxiety.
According to press rports the Japanese Govern-
ment was divided on the cuestion of adhering to a silver
agreement. Japan, being not a silver producing country,
was not greatly intererted in the cuestion. It is
significent that one of the re sons for Japan's neutrality,
as given to the ress by a government s pokesman, was that
it is not certain that "Manchukuo" will remain on a
silver basis.
According to information available in Japan the
Nippon aelcgates t London spent most of their time
and energy trying to arrive at some trade agreement
with Great Britain.
On July 28 the Foreign Ofrice issued a statement
to

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
6
o the prees in which it exprested regre
imunment of the conferende without
tion of any effective results. It also expreaped
fear that adjournment meant virtual fallure or the
obnference, thereby intensifying the tariff and trad
ar among the nations. The statement, as reportad
the press, went on to say that"if the interested Powel
indulge in their economic imperialism in coping with
the depression in the future, it not only will deatroy
the foundations of international economic ocoperation
but will even render it impossible to resume the World
Economic Conferenee in the autumn".
(b). "Manchukuo:"
Most of the several hundred so-called reac
tionary organizations of Japan are strong supporters.
of the present policies of the military, especially in
matters regarding Manchuria. However, one exception
has now been found. The Meirinkai, which calls it-
self "reactionary" end which has for its President
General Kunishige Tanaka, retired, formerly Military
Attaché at wushington, has issued a statement oppos-
ing the military policy regarding Manchuria and ad-
vocating greater encouragement of capitalistic invest-
ments there. It is not sugfested that the statement
of the Meirinkai will of itself have any effect upon
Japanese policy but it is significant that a former
officer of the army should associate himself with
such a movement at the present time.
Field Marshall Muto, Ambassador to "Manehukuo" and
Commander of the Kwantu Army, died at Changchun on
July 27 of stomach trouble. He is generally regarded
as

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
zly suecespral admimiatratorc
in Manchuria and his loss is-mdurned by"th
tMon, General T. Hishikari, Military Couhethaer
haen appolnted to suoceed him. The new Ambaswador
ls mescribed as an outspoken man of considerable whiliy
andstrength of character. He was Commander of the
tung Army in 1930 and consequently is already acquli
with the nature of his work.
(c) Relations with Soviet Russi.
During recent months there have occurred
series of incidents which have made Soviet-Japariese
relations appear in a serious light. The situation aid
not appear as critical at the end of July as it did at
the. beginning of the month but there still remain several
potential dangers.
The first and most important possible source
of trouble in some respects is the apparent deadlock
in the negotiations for the sale of the Chinese Eastern
Railway, now called by "Manchukuo" the North Manchuria
Railway. On July 4 there was a formal exchange of plans
regardin the s le between the Soviet and "Manchukuo
delegations. The two plans differed in several re-
spects, the most obvious difference being in the price.
As expleined in lest month's political renort two bases
of evaluation have been used by the two parties to the
sale. Furthermor, "Manchukuo" refuses to admit the
Soviet contontio that complete ownership of the road is vested
in the Soviet Government. It is believed by some"that
the
*Despatch No. 472 of July 13; Telegram No. 127
July 18- noon; des atch No. 483 of July 28.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
torobtain racogniomon.dr thein ci
Andther potnt or dteegreement has
feem over the question as to which government
assume the former claims against the road. The
sakt of'all the disagreements is that no progrees
toward the sale is apparently being made in spite.of
several conferences in July. A spokesman for "Manchn"
klow has announced that it will take possession of the
rmilway by force it the present negotiations fail.
The ineident renorted last month Involying the
shooting of three Japanese fishermen off the coast of
Kamchatka has been settled by an apology from tho Soviet.
Other fishery troubles which looked ominous at the be-
ginning of the month were finally settled amicably. On
July 1 one-half of the Jupanese navy was in-Northern
water's but later most of the vessels returned to Yoko-
suka: On the other hand there have come to Tokyo
reports of several fresh incidents on the frontier between
Russia and "Manchukuo". Two J ponese soldiers were fired
upon and six Soviet frontier guards are alleged to have
crossed the border and lundered a small town in Hunan. Fur-
thermore, it is reported that the Soviets fired upon a "Man
chukuo" river steamer and seized ten White Russian Guards
who confessed to a cha ge of espionage and implicated the
Japanese military.
The Soviets have proposed a commercial treaty with
Japan, but the Foreign Office is cool, alleging that the
Soviets usc commercial treaties for political ends
stating
Despatch No. 471 of July 13, 1933.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
ande knd unfavorable balanoe of Japanlatrads
ith soviet Russia. A member of the starf or t
mbhsay was told at the Foreign Office that Japan
ne intention of concluding a commercial treaty with
Spv1et Russia.
It is very difficult to analyze the motives
behind these various moves of Japan and Soviet Rus-
sia. At the beginning of July it looked as if the
Japanese were trying to make capital of incidents
which would ordinarily have been ttled very quietly.
It was believed by some that the military were try-
ing to create another emergency in order to assist
them in obtaining their defense budgets for the next
fiscal year. It is believed that the Japanese mili-
tary hope to control Vladivostok in order to remove
the menace of a Soviet  ir base and the method fol-
lowed in working up incidents with the Soviets bears
a close resemblance to the methods used before the
Manchurian occupation.
The course followed by the Soviets is more diffi-
cult to exnlain. However, ever since the offer was made
to sell the Chinese Lastern Railway some well-informed
persons have contended that the Soviets did not wish
to sell but only wanted to become involved in prolon-
ged negotiations with the Japanese in order to post-
pone what they consider to be inevitable trouble.
According to this theory the Soviets are not yet
ready to fight. The more recent proposal to conclude
a

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
of trying to postpeme the gring
i true it would seem that some ofit
Mar guards are very difficult to control
Sgressive actlons of the latter mmy have bech
ut af aggravations of the Japanese and Wanch
kuow troops but they are in shapp contrast to the
parent attitude of the authorities at Moscom.
(d) Japan Protests Loans to China
The outstanding development in Japan's re-
lations with China during the month was the former!
protest against the help being extended to the latter
by the League of Nations and the western countries
Individually. The specifie action of the League to
which Japan takes exception is the sending to China
0
of Dr. Rajchmann, the Polish health expert, to co-
03
ordinate the activities of the various League tech-
6
nical experts. But more serious than this in the
eyes of the Japanese are the reported negotiations
being carried on by Mr. T.V. Soong for securing loans
for China from western powers. According to the press
the Japanese Foreign Uffice has instructed the Japa-
nese Ambass dors in the United States and western
Europe to protest to the Governments to which they
are ccredited against the extension of financtal aid
to China. Japan contends that loans to China at this
time will find their way into anti-Japanese activi-
ties. The Japanese press has carried many fantastic
stories of the purposes for which these loans will be
used. The United States, especially, is accused of
lending money to be used for the purchase of munitions
and

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
The "Christian Goneral". Marshal Feng
alzed control of the province of Chahar
of the "Manchmkuo" province of Jehol, howth 6
Pelping area, and south of western Heflunklang
mehukuo". His action is a source of.greatrembarr
both to the Nanking Government and to the Kran-
ting Army and it menaces the Tangku armistice agreemant
The Chinese have despatched a punitive expedition of
doubtful effectiveness while the Kwantung Army has
stationdd detachments in Jehol not far from the Chahar
border. Owing to the difficulty of the terrain the
Japanese Army hopes that it will not be necessary to
proceed against Marshal Feng. The situation contains
two latent possibilities. First, the War Office in
Tokyo is convinced that Feng is receiving supplies from
Soviet Russia via Urga.
If a Japanese expedition should
confirm this a serious crisis between Japan and Soviet
Russia might eventuate. Second, Japan has been fur-
nished with a method of provocation and the opinion
has often been epressed that the Chahar region should
be incorporated within the borders of "Manchukuo". It
is therefore important that this situation be closely
watched.
(f)
Miscellaneous Matters Concerned with Sino-
Japanese Relations.
94
The War Office has announoed that the revised
casualty lists for the Manchurian and Shanghai affairs
93
up. to July 15 include 2530 killed, 6896 wounded, and
1868 frostbitten.
According
* Embassy's despatch No. 484 of July 28, 1933.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
th Chima mith the Yollpw River as a seate
y plam to make the port of Tsingtao (Khantungkp
ace) into a sécond Bhanghai and to insure its c
reial predominance by extending the present Bhan
tung railmay to Hsi-an, the capital of Shensi Pro
vinee, and to Keolan of Kiangsi Provinoe. It is,he-
ported that the Japanese hope to interest Britain
and Belgian capital in this railway project.
Early in July the Japanese press gave some
publicity to the inauguration of a Great Asia Con-
federation in Canton with Japan as its mainstay. It
was claimed that the aim of the movement was to pro-
mote cooperution among Asiatic peoples.* However, it
was later reported that the organization had collapsed
with the arrest and decapitation of its leaders.
(g) Japanese-British Relations.
The month of July was marked by serious pre-
94
parations in Japan for the trade conferences between
Japan and India and Great Britain and, at the same time,
by a lack of popular excitement over the matter. During
74)
the early stages of this trade dispute, as reported in
previous monthly renorts, there were indications that
WE
Great Britain might succeed to the place formerly pccu-
pied by the United States as the principal object of
anti-foreign agitation in Japan. However, this has not
proved to be the case. Either the manipulators of
popular propaganda in Japan heve decided to spare Great
Britain
* Embassy's despatch No. 468 of July 13, 1933

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
Brftianactions
they would be. The most plausible 
tlen is that the military, who were the prinolg
Instigators of the agitation against the United 
not interested in a trade dispute which efretts
industrialists of the cities more direetly than the
cauntry people. It is not good material for a mili
preparedness campaign.
The preparations for the conferences at Biml
and at London made certain progress during the moath
though the prospects for a happy solution of the dif-
ferences between the Japanese and the British cotton
interests cannot be said to be very bright.
As the Indo-Tapanese trade convention lapses in
October the Japanese are anxious to hasten the inaugu-
ration of the conference at Simla to agree on a new
one. According to a statement of Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, made at
a meeting of the Japanese delegates, Japan wishes to
obtain a reduction in the 75% duty recently imposed by
India on cotton cloth of non-British origin and to
forestall the enactment by the Indian legislature of
any additional measures. In return, the Japanese.
Government will offer to institute a strict govern-
ment control of exports. However, the Japanese Govern-
ment, according to the press, believes that Great Britain
is trying to delay matters so as to allow the present
convention

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
eanaediby misundorstandinge regarding
of the delegates. The British contention
don" has no control over Indian tariffs seem
apnese to be inconsistent with the subsequent
that plenipotentiary powers could not be del
to the Indian delegates. Japan haa asked the British
Government to assure her that any agreement reachod at
Simla would be approved by London but a satisfaotory
reply to this request had not been received at the end
Ju1y
Japan is also sending a delegation to London where
it is hoped that other cuestions of British-Japanest
competition will be settled. Mr. Kadono, adviser to
the Japanese delegation at the World Economic Con-
ference has been designated head of the Japanese
delegation at this London conference. The preparations
for the conference have involved disputes over its scop
The British are reported to favor discussing only the
markets outside the British Empire where the commerce
of the two countries is competing; but the Japanese
are more interested in the British Empire markets, be-
lieving that they h ve little to fear from British
competition in neutral markets. It is reported that
the British wish to include rayon in the discussions
but

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
but the Japanese industrialists wish to restriot
the discussions to cotton goods.
(h) Franco-Japanese Relations(General)
Several Japanese newspapers, especially the
Tokyo YOMIURI, have given extensive publicity to 
pamphlet entitled "Le: gue of "ations and Japan",
published recently in France and written by a M.
Péchan who is said to have formerly been a Vice
Minister of Industry of France. The pamphlet ap-
WE
parently expresses views very favorable to Japan. This
is only one of meny incidents pointing toward a de-
sire on the part of the Japanese to develop their country's
friendshi with France. Some Japanese newspapers are con-
stantly trying to create the imoression that there is
a considerable bocy of French oninion favorable to
Jopan. The YoMiuRI recently stated that there is a
strong movement in the French Chamber of Deputies
toward recognition of "Monchukuo".
The oress nlso rooorts tho visits to manchuria
of renresent tives of several grouns of French capi-
talists, mon vhom are the Franeo-Asiatic Bank which
is said to be interestea in various enterprises in
the Amur V-lley. Other Fr nch firms re renorted to
be interested in contracts tor the supplying of con-
struction m terials. An associ tion or the oromotion
of Ereneo-Jaoonese investment in Manchurin has been
formed in Tokyo. This was brought about by the pre-
sence in Tokyo of  . Andre Boiocorjon d'Olivier, a
representative

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
tative of the Asmeciation
nsion Ecoñomique of Papis.
There may or may not be something behind all
this It is believed that with the Japanese the
is father to the thought. However, a definite effort
isbeing made by some person or persons to create
the impression among the Japanese public that the
Freneh are more Triendly to them then there is any
orete evidence to show.
(1)
Japanese Recction to the French Claim to
Nine Coral Islands.
The announcement on the part of France or her
claim to nine small islets between Indo-China, Borneo,
nd the Philippines has brought forth a strong protest
in Japan. Several Japanese subjects claim to have carried
on phosphate mining operations there about ten years
WE
ago. The facts are as yet very uncertain and the Japa-
nese Foreign Office is evidently conducting a thorough
investigation before disputing the French claim. However,
the Japanese press has assumed that the islands are
valuable for strategic purposes and an attempt is being
made to force the government to protest.
(j) Afghanistan
At a Cabinet meeting on July 18 the Foreign Minister
90294
announced that Afghanistan wishes to send a Minister to
Japan and had recuested the approval of the Japanese
Government. The Cubinet voted its approval.
III.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
TII. "INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)me Cab1net.
The political situation has been comparative-
1y quiet sinoe the advent of sumer weather. The
government offices are open only during the mornings
and many of the higher officials spend most of their
time at the summer resorts. However, there has been
a revival of the reports that the leaders of the Sei=
yukai and Minseito parties would soon join the Cabinet
as ministers without portfolio. The Japanese press
reports that Mr. Suzuki, the leader of the Seiyukai,
is now more favorably disposed toward supporting Pre-
mier Saito!s government, in spite of the fact that
his party recently passed a motion of criticism of the
Cabinet. There certainly se ms to be less enthusiasm
for party government now than there was several months
ago. This may be due to the anoerent disruption in the
ranks of the Seiyukai, the majority porty, or to the
effect of the oublic trials of the perpetretors of the.
terroristic ects of lest year, which are discussed else-
where in this renort. However, the real power which
keeps the Saito Government in office is believed to be
the Army. The military group Which control Janan
at the present time stand a better chance of getting
what they want from the present Government than from
any other one which woulo likely come into office.
The budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1934
is now in the orocess of preparation so it is not be-
lieved likely that the Cabinet will be changed in the
near future unless there are unforeseen developments.
(b)

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.97)
18
(b) The Army and the Navy.
The Japanese War Office has announced
it has initiated studies and investigations with a yiu
of organizing the army, especially that part of it
which will be stationed in Manchuria. The announcement
states that a division will be stationed permanently
O
in "Manchukuo" and two new garrisons will have to be
established there. The reason for the announcement at
this time is possibly indicated by the annexed state-
ment that the high cost of this reorganization and of
constructing permanent quarters in "Manchukuo" will
prevent any reduction in the military budget for the
next fiscal year.
According to press reports the Japanese Naval
General Staff has approved a naval expansion program
to be initiated with the beginning of the next fiscal
year, which aims to ut Janan in possession of a navy
ecual to the m xinum strongth allowed by the London
Treaty. It is renorted that this will involve an
expenditure of Yen 500,000,000 over a period of three
years.
The prestige of the J: panese army appears to be
involveo in a uisoute which has arisen in Osaka be-
tween the Army nd the police . A private in the army
failed to notice a traf ic signal and was reprimanded
by a police officer. The lutter is alleged to have
resorted to physical violence in trying to impress
upon the rivate the importance of obeying police
orders. The Army consiaers that one of its members
has

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
an: inmalted and has demanded an
Qsakor police and punianment for thé poli
The pólice have issued statements co
Jmbers of the military forces for thinking they don
veto obey traffic regulations. The dispute 
carried from the two organizations to the Cabinet and
thenoe to the press and the country at large and  de
lock ensued. Finally it was decided to carry it to tho
courts and there it remains.
(c)
The Trials of Civilian, Military and Naval
Assassins.
The public trials of the assassins of Financ
Minister Inouye and Baron Dan opened in Tokyo on June 28;
the court martials of the ten naval officers involved in
the affair of May 15, ly32, which resulted in the slaying
of Premier Inukai, commenced on July 24; and the public
hearing of the eleven army cadets who were involved in
the May 15th incident begon on July 25. The trials of
the civilians involved in the May 15th incident have not
yet begun. These trials will be aiscussed more com-
pletely in a renort Which will bewritten after their
termination.
. However, it should be stated now that they
are attracting : great deal of public atiention.
The evidence which has been submitted so far shows
that the various  ctual and attempted assassinations
which took nlace during the first half of 1932 were
planned by youn men,- civilian, military and naval-,
from the country oistricts. They were undoubtedly
actuated

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
20.
actuated by patriotic motives and some of thair
ments to the court have been eloquent discourse
evils of the party system of government. They wished
to wipe out party government and restore the Imperlal
Way" of old Japan. The"humiliation" suffered by Japan
at the Bondon Naval Conference is laid by them to the
"unpatriotic" statesmen then in control of the country
The actions of the assessins may be laid largely to 1
nerance, along with patriotism, and no idence has so far
been presented to indicate that there was any "Master
Mind" directing them from higher circles, either in
the civilian or in the military branches of the govern-
ment.
There has been some speculation as to why the
Government is conducting public hearings of these men
with all the attendant rublicity, when the cases might
have been sctt led quietly vithout recalling to the minds
of the people conditions as they existed more than a year
ago. The authorities unuoubtodly wish to avoid making
martyrs of the perpetrators of these crimes and the
former mey believe that by allowing them to talk they
may be made to look ridiculous. It will be easier to
judgo this when the sentences cre oronounced. Two
eftects of the hearings have been to publicize some of
the evils of the J panese political purties and to
reveal to foreign obrervers some of the difficulties
which J panese statesmen get into when they sign inter-
national agreuments, such as the London Naval Treaty,
without

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
21
thout the support of the Japanese pulii
(d) Anather Assassination Plot Uncover
Tokyo Police.*
On the night of July 10-11, 1938 the po11
of Tokyo raided a "prayer meeting" near thd Meiji @nving
and arrested 49 members of the Dai Nihon Seimante, 
violent reactionary orgenization. During the following
week they arrested a total of 108 persons who, they
announced, had planned to gather 3000 young men at the
Meiji Shrine and erecute a bloody coup to restore the
"Imperial Way" of old Japan. It was stated that thea
schemers had perfecteu their plans to assassinate all
the statesmen and financial leaders which the "Blood
Brotherhood" had intended to kill last year, and also
General Araki. The plan to assassinate the War Minister
came as a surprise to the public and is believed to have
been due probably to dissatisfaction among the more
violent members of the rmy and navy with his willing-
ness to compromise on the amounts to be anpropriated
in next year's buoget for armaments.
The police appear to be convineed that they
prevented serious trouble but mony people believe that
the most the "plotters" desired was to warn .the courts
not to deal too harshly With those accused of the May
15th affair of lact year.
V.
* Embassy1? despatch No. 474 of July 14, 1933.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
GDVERNMENTFINANCE
The Budget 1or 1934-35
The Government is still working on the budget
for l9z4-5 but few developments can be reported since
writing last month's political renort. Finance Minis
ter Takahashi has been taking a rest at the seaside
during most of the month of July and has made few pubie
pronouncements. He did state in one interview that he
did not favor an increase in taxation during the next
fiscal yeer. However, much nressure will be brought
to bear on him to raise taxes and it is noted that he
did not categorically deny that t: xes would be raised.
The general consensus of opinion seems to be that the
budget will amount to about the same sum as the one
for the present fiscal year. However some sections
of the press have become more critical of the mili-
tary exnenditures than they were in the past and ask
why it is still necessary to spend so much on the
army.
VI.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
(a) Exohange.
July opened with the yen valued at 27 eents.
Just after the midale of the month it advanced as far
às 30 cents and then began to drop about the 20th-so
These
that it reached 27-1/2 cents on the last day.
fluctuations are generally attributed to changes in the
value of the dollar ruther than to the yen, which is
believed to have romained st ble in relation to gold.
(b) Lack of Rainfall Hits Rice Crop.
at
The annual rainy season of the latter part
of June and the first part of July failed to appear
this year in the district around Tokyo and as a con-
secuence the J-panese rice cron will be much smaller
and much suffering will likely ensue. Rainfall during
the normal r iny serson this year was only S4.1 milli-
meters in the Tokyo district as compared with 134.?
millimeters during the sume period last year. The
reinfall in other aistricts of Jovan was also less
tnan usual. M ny rice fields have been abandoned
und conrererces h ve  Iready been held in Tokyo to
consioer measures of relief for the farmers who will
sufrer through the fuilure of their rineipal crop.
(c) The merkets.
The Japanese share : nd commooity markets
orooped sharply aurin: the latter half of July. The
original drop was attributed to the uneasiness due
to the diseovery of the terroristic plot reported
elsewhere in this report, to the ad journment of the
Worlú

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
l3 Eeomomic Conferenee, to
the exchange vaiue of-uhe yen in rei
llat, and to the untimely unfavorabla
foreim trade registered for. the first halrfot
slump in the raw silk market was attributed tost
report that the United States was considering piad
an import duty on that product, However, in spito or
the disappearance of some of these possible causes
the slump continued until the end of the month.
(d) Japanese Diplomacy and Her Foreign Trade
The Japanese Foreign Office has been subjected
to some criticism in the local press for failure
to prevent movements gainst Jananese trade. There
has been some advocacy of the appointment of successful
business men to important diplomatic posts instoad of
career diplomats. To me t some of this criticism and
as a recognition of the changed conditions confronting
Jepan in the commercial world, it has been decided to
establish a Trade Commission in the Foreign Office which,
tt is s tated, will be composed as follows:
Chirman- the Foreign Minister
0 ofricials of the Foreign, Finance,
Agriculture, Commerce, Communications,
and Overseas Departments.
su men
from business circles who are
famili r with trade.
The purposes of this commission are reported to be closer
cooperation, sunpression of unnecessary competition,
raising the level of eyport orices to prevent the estab-
lishment of further tariff barriers, boyeotting by
importers nd monufacturers of meterials from countries
which

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.95)
25
which raise, barriers against Japanese goods and en
couragement and dissemination or informatlon ro
garding markets abroad.*
(e) Formation of Oil Company for "Manchuluo"
It is understood from a reliable source that a
Japanese Company has been formed for refining oil at
Da1ren for sale in "Mnchukuo". This is part of a
scheme to "squeeze out" the foriegn oil companies
from that territory. **
(f) Trade Pacts with South American Countries.
According to the local press Japanese Government
officials, led by Finance Minister Takahashi, are in-
teresting thenselves in the promotion of trade pacts
with South Manchurian countries. It is stated that
they have in mind agreements such as Great Britain has
A
negotiated with several cou trics in that part of the
world. In view of the exchenge ce  rol laws in oseration
in those countries the Jape ese believe that they can-
not increase their export: there without agreeing to take
more of the procuets o tore n tions. Hence they
hope to entor into agre meuts for exchenging copodities.
VII:
ACTTVTTERTCAN
HCTADLTERESTS.
Ni1.
* Fabossy's a  ten vo. 481 of July 28, L055
** Emboreys s tch o. 47 of July :4, 1953.
VTII.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.92)
-20
VILI. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMEROTAL INTERRSTB
Uruguayan and Brazilian Trade Midatons
A mission of business men from, Brazia and
Uraguay arrived at Yokohama on July 4 with products of
their countries which they intended to exhibit in Yoko
hame and Osaka. The leader" of the Brazilians is. Dr
Henrique Paulo da Cunha Bahiana and the leader of the
Uruguayans is r. Luis Alberto Zanzi. The mission
has brought canned goods, wool, frozen meat, and leather

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
NTSOELEANEOUS
Comimism
During the early part of July seyeral
munists who were sentenced to long terms ot tmpr
sonment followed the example of the two mentioned
in last month's political report in announcing their
intention to sever connection with the Third Inter
national and other international organizations of
Communists. Their change of poliey is undoubtedly
due to the realization that the type of commumism from
Moscow has no apoeal to the Japanese worker. Marxian
ism has attracted many Jananese students but it is
believed by many vriters in Japan that a more nation-
alistic doctrine must be enunciated by tre radicals
if they wish ever to have any success in Japan.
Meanwhile, the Ministry of Education is formulating
plans for a "Thought Burecu" for whieh an appro-
priation of Yen 60,000 is to be requested during the
next fiscal year. The object of this bureau will be
to combat "dangerous thoughts" in the schools and
universities of the country. It is reported that the
ofticials of the  ucation Ministry heve been as-
tounded to find that many primary school teachers are
spreading communistic doctrines.
(b)

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.92)
ulation Increada
ith the annouroement by the Statist
Bureau of the Cabinet that the population of the
1nereased 1,007,868 during 1932. This natumal incread
for 1932 was 146,334 larger than the inorease for 1981
The increase was 15.20 for each thousand for 193 whe
as it was only 13.18 during the previous year

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
DESPATCHES TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
JULY 1933.
No
Date
Subject
458
July 1,
Report on codes.
459
6,
Monthly political report for June.
460
n
7,
Laying of keel of U.S.S. MacDoNoUGH.
461
n
8,
Diplomatic visa report.
462
10,
Claim of Captain Barstow.
463
8
10,
Japanese radio stations, interference with
U. S. stations.
464
n
11,
Rent allowences not used.
465
n
11,
Whereabouts of Mr. Edwin Wood.
466
n
11,
International Geological Congress.
467
13,
Mr. Rea's article "A Conspiracy of Silence".
468
n
13,
League of Asiatic Nations.
469
n
13,
Smuggling of narcotic drugs.
470
n
13,
Statement of Lr. Roy Howard regarding American
Policy toward the Far East.
471
n
13,
Chinese Eastern Railway Negotiations.
472
n
13,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
473
n
14,
Diplonatic visa report.
474
14，
Recrudescence of reactionary activities.
475
n
19,
Convention of St. Germain en Laye.
476
n
19,
Visit of rince Tokucawa to the U. S.
477
n
19,
Persian-Japenese relations.
478
21,
Diplomatic visa report.
479
n
24,
O1l business in Lianchuria.
480
n
26,
Japan's reaction to Americen naval plans.
481
n
26,
Trede Conmission in the Japanese Foreign Office.
482
n
28,
Use of word "Sincerity" by Japanese.
483
n
28,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
484
n
28,
Activities of Marshal Feng Yu-hsiang.
485
n
28,
Diplomatic visa report.
486
n
29,
Resi dence quarters of Mr. Laing.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
JULY 1933.
No
Date
Sub ject
125
July 17, 11 a.m.
Retention of Lajor Bratton until after
arrival of his successor.
126
* 18, 10 a.m.
Arrival of Ir. Williams, Commercial
Attaché.
127
18, noon.
Soviet-Japanese relations.
128
" 20, noon.
Harcotics.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.92)
pestesse of crdialtd frienship
Eee Aemerin nd meriens n the port of Japense
arrsadaldon and the press, which were regerted ta
last manth's pelitioal report, became Less marksl
with the advent of the July heat. In faet, casual
glances at the press might have indieeted that there
1s still very much in existence a feelins of suspi-
cion, if not of hostility. Two small incidents 1l-
lustrate the feeling that apparently still exists
among a section of the Japanese police.
h
Dr. R. B. Teusler, head of St. Luke's Mospi-
0
tal in Tekyo, whom the Japanese Foreign Office re-
0
cognises as Physician of this Embassy, in accordance
with his annual oustom, et the end of June sailed his
small yucht from Tokyo to Hayame where he has a sum-
8
mer home. On the way his yacht was becalmed and was
towed into the small port of Misaki, which is inside
the fortified zone, tut 1s not closed to vessels such
as his. Since that time he has been having trouble
with the police and all sorts of stories have been
printed in the vernacular press  ccusing him of
es pionage. It is r ported in the press that he will
be prosecuted under the law which forbids a "foreign
vessel" to carry parsengers and cargo fron me J pan-
uese nort to nother. The publicity siven to Dr.
Teusler's troubles h
crewn etontion to the Yoko-
hame Yacht Club, most of whose
umbere re  ricen
5500

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.91)
I   
Informed the Beoretary of the Chub that the pakies
were sespicions becease the club han 147 
and cnly 2s bouts and every mdey aftemooe the
not taking part in the races stand  the clnge
verande looking at the naval base asross the bay
through spy classes.
Lientenant J. R. Sherr, un Ameriean army of-
ficer attached to this Embassy for language stuty,
was the subject of & particularly objectionable story
carried in almost all the Japanese newspapers in July
a
in which he was accused of spying on munition plants.
The story originated with a police officer and had no
0
basis other than that be was seen walking on a publio
d
thoroughfare in the vicinity of & plant. Both the
R
stories regarding Dr. Teusler and those regarding
9
Lieutenant Sheer gave prominence to their diplomatie
8
status and cont ined pointed references to this Em-
bassy.
During the past year many American army and navy
of icers stationed in the Philiupines and China have
take advontage of the f vorable exehange rete to come
194
to J pen to spend their enforced laave without pey.
1
It appears that secti ms of the Japanese have become
very susniclous of these visits and some of the news-
pers m ve c liu tontion to the matter.
In pr eticall ll the soy ineinents thet have
the vast year the olice have ventually

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 6, 1933.
Most of the important items covered
in Tokyo's monthly report for August
(despatoh No. 510 of Septomber 5) have
already been brought to the attention of
the Division by separate despatohes.
Although several American citizens
have been involved with the Japanese
anthorities in various ways, the Embassy
does not believe that the oases of
Langston Hughes, Upton Close and Alex H.
Buckman can properly be put down to
anti-American feeling, and it believes
that in view of the similar treatment
accorded Lord Marley and other Europeans,
the police aotion cannot in any sense be
considored anti-American in intent, even
though the press did give prominenoe to
the nationality of the persons against
whom the aotion was taken (pages 2-4).
The Embassy has notioed several
expressions of friendly sentiment towards
the United States, suoh as those by
Goneral Araki and Count Uohida, but it
ties them up with the naval question
and the desire to counteract American
suspicions of Japan and to prepare the
ground

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
ground in the United States for Japan's
demands at the next naval oonference
(pages 4-5).
The sections on Japanese reaction
to the Amerioan naval program (page 6)
and Japanese reaction to possibility of
Amerioan recognition of Russia (page 7)
have already been disoussed in previous
despatohes, but should be read through
onoe more.
The seotion on Sino-Japanese rela-
tions is quite interesting. It indioates
that the question as to whether or not
Mr. Soong should visit Tokyo on his way
to Shanghai caused a considerable stir
in military ciroles in Tokyo (pages l0-13).
The seotion on general economic and
finaneial conditions beginning on page 25
contains some interesting figures on
Japan's foreign trade and on business
conditions in Japan.
2
RHD:EJL

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo, September
No.510.
SUBJECT:
Lonthly Report on Conditions in Japan
auring the month of August, 1933
QquiufE
54i00TR
Division of
0
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 2- 1933
DIVISION OF
TE
 3133
EASTERN EUROPEAN AFFAIR
1023
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPART
For
OF STATE
0CT161933
R./69
JEPA. IVENI UF STATE
0C1 231933
ASEIR
EUROPEA AAR
007 251933
FILED

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.97)
No.83
REPORT ON CONDITTONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF UGUST, 1933

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.85)
TCAL REAPIONG WITILSHE UNT
(a): The Jananesd phare and miaore
contimue im thatre susmioione
toward Amerige And Americ
(b) Friendly statements y Hiher 
(c) Jananese reactieh to the American naval
program
(d) heaction in Japan to Rumors of Sovint
Americ n Repnroonement
IT.
BOLITICAL RI ATIOYS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Preper tion for the trade conferenbes
with Croct Britoin at Cimla and fonden.
(b) Eino-Jananese helations.
R1L1
(c) The sele of the North Mancharian Ra1lwayy
(d) Jan nese-Coviet Relutions
13.14
14
15,I6
The Shonen Isl nds Disnute.
Frynce Chuncer har mbaaardor to J pan. 10
III.
TAL POLITLCAL EEL IS:
17,18
The Cabinst
18,19,202
lavel faa
ins
21,22
Arry and sayy manoc yres.
IV.
COUSE OF  GLATTS:
NII
GOVERE TNT PANCL:
he ueg
for the Piscal Year beginaing
Lnril 11724.
VI

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.94)
GENERAL RCOJOMIC AND EINANCIALCONDITT
(a) Foreign Trade Figures.
(b) Foreirn Exchange..
(c) Statistics showinr business imbrerements
(d) ffect of the Lifting of Embargo on newly-mi
gold in America.
(e) The gasoline trade.
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CO MERCIAL INTERESTS
N11.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CO ERCIAL INTERESTS
N11.
IX.
LABOR AHD F IGRITIN:
Nil.
X.
MISCFLLAVEOUS:
Le th uf Er. Frederick Starr.
.80.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.91)
PTCRONSNITH
Continuainithelrtsubpiottouus-
boward. Amerloa and Sdericaaa
Amoricen Japanese relations dprine
Atgust were almost as dufet and unmarked b.
davelopments as they were during Juty. Although
"trhigher orfictals made friendly gestures totnrd h
States, as will be mentioned below, there continued
evldence of anti-American feeling, or suspidionvadd
the hewspeners  nd minor Japanese officials.
A certain section of the press continued 1ts atlac
on Dr. Teusler. Come rerponsible officicls expressed their
regrets regaro ng the anroyance to which Dr. Teuslap has
been subjectec, but the nglish JAPAN CHRONICLE-of KObe is
the only newsnaper to have called ottention to his service
to Janan ano to h ve char cterized the cccusations of
espionage as ridicul us
Two  tories reg ruing new American naval buses have
been given  ens ti na1 ubl city by the Japanese press,
even by conserv tive  pors. One was that the United
States was seer tly neroti tin with the lexican Gowernment
for the establicnment of  naval base in ragd lrna Bay
Lower CoLifornis. L ter  denial 1ssued by the Mexican
Govorament was pub isheu by some popers of Tokyo.  The
second was that  gre ment hao boon reached with China
for the establishment of en American naval buse in the
Province of Fukien, China, which is opposite to the Janariesé
Isl nd of Formosa. A derial suid to have been made by urie
4mer10n

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.84)
baderin theLuuontance attriuated
twbf a naval base or the otner ide
how easily the Jananesa publle 
s at natignal derohsetmd ha i
 cater. to. this feel ing.Every report ad
Agrdcan nay 1 nlrns 1s caperu1ly notedian
ments or the most uninformed parsons are congldar
publahing if they are sensational enough.
Early in August the Tokyo apers carrden a story
American aid to Chinese evtation. The ASAnIsguoted in
detail'a contract alleged to have peon signed petweenh
the Chinese vinister in Woshington and the Secratary of
State whereby Amcrica w uld unoly o million dollars
without interest, Chin se vistors would be tratnedt
the United Ststos, nd the latter would npnly oo 
lnes. his story no others of similar type are due
te militery wop g ndr. Their sopeurrhee lways ceepsrto
cotncide wi th mi itary r ids on ther puoget.
Several ellogeallenomics of Jepan", expohents or
"dangerou thouhts, ao rootcwho,pened te be
Babassy!I satetegram No 130.rAngs
Embassysrdespateh No d05 of Ateuac 14 Ld

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.92)
eitheroftheJs
Vriunton closefGeorgea
was yisiting the Par hast aa a condudtan or
mas generally criticized by the preas yox
Japanese writings nd, at the request or the
was efused admission to Manchuriamr. Langst
a negro writer, wu askcd to leave Jepen pecausd or
radical beliefs. The newspapera gave sensutional
cit to the projected visit to Japan of Mr.nd
tarold Is acs, the former being editer of the CHia
agcusing him of coming to the country on a "paciflst
mission. It wa st ted that he would be closely watchad
velend, Ohio, wsr also cakeo to lesve.
 These cases cannot he classed as exauples of the
"spy n  ia" or nt -Americonism. The treatment accorded
to r. unton Close s due to some of his published
writings ene lectures. The other: were disliked becsuse
of their oLiefs. The trer tment accorded them was the
same  thet iven Lord rley, an Englishman, end D
Albert lelteour,  lsian, who unon arsival at Kobe were
Forcsd to ruturn to E  nghai because they vere considered
undesir bles. T ere both uelegates to n anti wa
conference in Ch nghai, which the Jananese Government mas
refused permi on for ito not onels to attend on the
crounde tht t is  ponsored by the Third Interhationale

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.92)
hgwouianot be
caring the polloe eh
action cahnot therefore thd
mmarican in intont, even thong the pres
bhalilnence to the nationslity of the peraone
the adtfon was taken
(b) Friendly Statements liy Higher Offivh
The anti-American feeling which has baen
among large sections of the Jananese publie and n
officialdom has causcd saner minds highor un to ou
their way to cxpress fr' endly sentimenta: However, the
counterctive statemento mear to be more for constum
in the United States then for changing the sentiment
the Jepanese ublic.
About the mildle of August the Assoolated Pres
released in the Unitec States a story of un intenvte
between the Jope ese War Minister, Generrl Ar ki, and
Kent Cooper, the n por of that pows service wip tocentry
visited Jepen. It w: no doubt noted in the Department
that the War inister exprensed his determination to wonk
for the oromoti n or friundly relations between the tvo
countries nd, if the transl tion renorted in the Inglish
Tokyo peners cun be trusted, oven re ched the point, of, baine
able to say,"It has slweys given me sincere pleasure to'oe
the stars eno striper flyin enywherel.
On

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.85)
tnee Iyeseto Tewsawe
of Pogray hes one oo atrip
prepc, nessibly for a ppilticel
nownto advocnte the-oromotton of the
rajations between Americsand Japan 
soon Ptter lagding in'San Franeiseooo
or such a nature.
A11 of these frlendly geshires on the mort
ancse orfictals must be considered in gongetion
naval confere ce which thev expect witt e hpld
for peyising the neval trenties. As they ho
a. higher ratio for Jann it ia undoubtedly the dasi
Japanese lecders to counteract any suspictope or
which may exist in the United States. tud tte ore
Amertcans for anants demands t the conferencev FD
factors vhich may int luance the attitude or Japme
alflet Is are the prospect of Amerigen-daiet rmoprochd
ment and the fee tng that Jpat muet soon indt some
"Pri nd" in the fantly of nations
Con ider: ble interas is ataohed to theront
 coming visit to the United Shetee of r Shlrate
Emoessy's desnatch o.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.89)
1lithrx-an
pde Sorresp
eriden dipiometaryas repr
Palitacai Report for May, he wa ad
reden as a result of dissension in the
He has succeeded in delaying pis departure
several months and hes spent a grest del
with his friends of the militory claque.
ounced that he will s top in Washington, e
London for t o months or more on his way to hi poat
WE
(c) Janenese heaction to the meribums o
Program.
The Jeoanese press has during the month or
August given consicerable nublicity to the niansror bul
un the Amcrican navy to the treaty liwits. while mony
YJL3V
sensational nd fIse storics ave been reported, as atated
elsewhere in this reoort, there ho ve been many editobials
of o more inte ligout, though bi sed, nature. It isus
nected that the former originate with the militany ang the
letter vith the  vy Jeprrtment.
In di cussins the ressons for the Amepican naval
expon ion the press has in general peid little attenticn
to the unem 1 yment elier aspect more stress is laid
the st tenent  sueo by Ar. Roy Howard of the United Pres
unon his return to the inited States, in which he ad
vocated naval expansion as a practioal means of promoting
peace in the Pacific.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.87)
phesary by thexmher
hayo cortributed 
the chango of
United-States. It asabeeoming
hat the strabegista of the Jopanda
Moletale undet by, the olans to bufld
 They coupted on the diainel
e navy progran of which the Amer taon pead
Americaa Coneress have given evid ence during
Theyi nouen that when the next donrerenee the
would ha ve in existence a navy mearer the stso, or:
Ahoricun pavy than now annears robaule snd wonld thus
in a better barg ining posirton for obtaining  more
droferential ratio.
In connection with the discussion of onoth
conference, it is nteresting ty nobe that thergowet
Miai ter, Count Uchiua, in his interview of mugusth
1s referyed to clrev a re, st ted that Japan would
every effort to in orm the Amerfcan peonle th t res
of the Washingten and Lonrion trecties is absoltteiy
nocessary for Pepan's ational defenhe
(cy Beuctfun in Jopan to humors af go
Ameri tan hapnrochoweut
Janeo expeots sarly recogalpio
serdoualy disturbad by thts praject/,beltaving

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.94)
haions.They are
Amertex which advocates coonudation wit
to the end of restraining Jamn on the Aeiet
but they are conrident of their own'strength
no anxiety. Some declare that a change of atbitud
toward de focto covernments, on the part
may have l vorable effact on the question of Americ
recognition of"nchukuo"
tub ay1e do potch No. 496 of August 14, 1935

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.91)
Political Report regeraing
fey the two trade conferenees which Japan
with the British and the Indiens at London wnd
in the month of September.
The various Jaoanese Governwent datrt
conterned heve been very busy drawing ap statemg
olicy and instructions to the delegates Whrd
quite clear what the J nanese wish to gain from the con
ferences- namely, reuuction in duties and abolitiar
other trade restrictions in various arts of the Britsh
Lapire which they claim ciscriminste against Japan se
goods- it is no at all certain what concessions Jepan
hos to offer n ret rn. The Foreign uffice once sug
rested t nt the cxist ing rohibition on the imoortation
of Ronroon rice into Jaoan be lifted.  However, the
Dep rtment of griculture nd Forestry eyentually sue
ceeceu,  ccorei to press r orts, in having inserted
in the instruet uo to the delegtes a statement thata
 ot t iture, if made ly the Indian delegatien
hould be o tin ly  rused. Js pan has surorus rice
left over rvom lust y or end dous not want hermarket
to be Sloodod. It in opcible that Jepan mayoffer 
Iower the wuty on pi iron which was igporteu in asrge
coeotitie: Prom ndie before Janan meised the rate.
However, the  in to Tndia fron this ould harday becom
purable to th concesstons htch Janan wishes to obtain
Th

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.90)
boycott
diedontiued,berone, the qodrer
hidelagatesto thertecon
Jate to the medtint ladee:
hope is held' for the sugcesd ofserther. of
textile manufacturers are looking for other
invade
Inoidentally, the misunderatanding repdraed
last month's Political Renort regarding the meweh
the Indian delegates has been cleared un, radeomdin
nress revorts, by a promise made by the British
agreement egotiatcd at Simla will be accented or rwate
iu its entir t uy the British Government, go alteration
being made in the text.
(b) Fino-Japanese Rel tlons.
As reporte in last month's Political
Renort, r. T.V. Soong's puccess in obt uming Ions
abro:d has reccivea ioe and resentful attentfon in the 
Jr panese  res. ne Je na ese hed honed that enti-Japa-
ese feeling in Cuina wes dy ng dowm since the cessation
of hostilities, but they think that these loans, coubled
with the results of the Lushan Conference, preaict
further nti-Jaouuese activities. They are inclined
to attr bute ulterior motives to thoee powers which are
auvancing the money, bellevin that in view of Chinaf
oravious

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.90)
taect her cutatandins dvat
hese deraulted debts as an cu fole
1mterests inCo1na*
Mr. Boong, on returming frem Amerioa to
was a passenger on board the Amerioan: Liner Phs
JErFhRson when that vessel called at Yoltohama and
Beveral days before his arrival at Yokohmma tne new
papers reporteu that he would land in Jan and e
with cert in J ownese leaders. At First it weg ateted
not only that the Jananese would welcome sich a con-
ference but that the vanking Gover ment had ordered
Mr. Soong to visit rokyo. However, news soon Leaked
out that the Japanese ilit ry looked with disfaver
upon. ths prornect or Forei Uf ice icials.interyiewing
a well-nowo enery of  pan.  xt, it wes ennounced
that the ore n inister would not be able to see r
Soons as th w to oi the latterts visit colncided with
that of  naval povtew which the former had to attend
put that the vice inistor voulu give the Chinese statep-
man s bhcheod on  t cy. Fint lly, the day bofore r.
Toong's prrivel it vas  pounced that no interview woula
be helu and that r. Soone had decloed not to lapve the
ship in Yokoh ma. he Jananese press in generat expressed
great regret at the cncellation of the expected eonferenel
fron
* Embassy1s despatch . 502 August 18, 197.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.89)
As pusomoted that herpt
conferring tne that the eport that
orsginated either in Jopes eh
Whine as a result of Jananese, maohinati
Some develophent of understandn
and Janan is ev denceo or the withdrawal of the
neee.troops from the North China area to the opet
Accoro ing to n on ouncenent of the Jepanese War
withdrowal in con li ce with the terms or the Terth
Truce w. comrleted on August 7. The Japancse annowne
ment eve went  r es to comoliment the authorite
of North Cuina for their "sincerity" and spirit of co
sperstin. s elieved to be in accordande with fhe
pren nt Jan er iey sun orting r. Huang Fu. I
is alluged y some thyt J pan wishes to strengthenothe
cuthority of
 erder in Morth China with e view to
the reat n ? n utonomous res there which night
eventuo iy jo " mne mkuo". The oresent feeling
In J pan is th t . Coong's r usal to set foot on
Japenese coil ce troys  t hone of his cooperation
with J: pon. It is therefore hoveo that his influence
cua.be cl iminsteu rom the Peiping area.
On An ust  one J oenese cruiser and two de-
stroyers . ere or  to Foochow to protect Japanese
1 vesd oro  rty row a thre tened once of a Chine
cmnunist

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.83)
oress thet one or nore tearita
dayal vessa2s bad hasn orae
DrotbetingsAmaricar lives and pronesty
(c) The S le or the North Tapturt
The negotiations for the sale bythe
of the North manchurian, or Chinese Eastern ma
heve continued in Tokyo uuring the month d ugus
without preciable progress. Early in the month tho
Soviets r duced the orice w ich. they demend fcom
20
850,000,000 to 200,,00 gold rubls. The Manch
and J panese renresetatives continued in their offer
of. 50, , 00 yen. The next move was a pronosar to tchs
the exchange rote between the sold rable nd the yemt
The "Menc ukuo" Le  Lon poposet thot the ruble be valed
at s sen, whic ou brin the price uenandeds cowa to
the orice pee s pot bm seertained wet rat
he toviets ls to a in e mvertie the mureb se voney
b t they a re tly co e tder the mehuouoorg
sosal  busine or os t . he net rosult is' deodlock
in t chor merely rrving to
ta eert
"st1!".
EE
()
he tneir v t or th prder of the three Jape-
uese ffr ormen on Goviet tevritory, which hes been re
7015v
ported by this ab s, wor rinlly settle in Auust by
the epreement on the nort of the Hoviets t ey en todemnity
to the Jaborese Goverrment.
The

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.89)
berratorial wetorg
ht aruer and wilimvontiemy obvra
awihe to pey the presont highroe
The oress deepetches then wen't on to cay the
existing Soviet-J panese fishery trewty dll
1956 when it is believea that a r1e re
bedemanded by the Japanese. Thehorighydr thi
despatch is unknown but it hed many earuars or p
paganda for Russian consumntion in orepar tior f
fbshery conference in 1036.
(e) Manchukuo"
Two sts tonts regerain Manchukue were
issueo by hign J pmese of icials during August. on
Auguet 9, ar winister Areki reported to the J panese
Cab inet that the new r gime is mskins steady progresst
in spite of the continued existence of banditry, of
wrom he est mater there are stal1 about 7 ,00o in
exd stence. Ho claimed that this means a substantial
and ste: dv oecr. se. A week Later the new Janenese
Amb as  or to " an hukuo", Generel Teko shi Bishikari,
en rute to hi post, irounced that he would continue
the nolieies or his rer cessor, the 1 te Genorl Huto
He advocsteu les: intorference in Manchuuo" afairs.
the pert of J: pan and exoressed en interest in Japanese
emigration tnere

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.93)
CrmeShonanoIslan
The ennouneemerit on thie
ter otwim to sovereinty over nfne anail
in the South Seas, sometimes swlled, tnd Sho
caused consideraple agftatior in the Jarane
was renorted in lsst month's Political Report
the Forelgn Office gecmeu to be moving oautiously
fact, its apparent slowmess in protesting the Frend
claim brought upon it severe oriticism from certai
Bections of the Japenese press. A private Jananese
company, it ann ars, has been interested in the is
Lands since 1018 no for several yer rs prior to 1925
carried on pho-phote mining operatfons there. Purther
more, it was ci imed that the orincipel fishermen and
navig tors to whom the icl nds re imom are Jepanese.
However, the most ir ortrt f ct io that  foreign natipn
is tryin toexoana 1ts tor itory n the Far Lest, an area
of the worle w n the Jeoanese paners h ve during the
Last fer onthe tikeo to con ider under th protection
of Joon. u French cecleration conflicts with the
urerent cririt of Jaoanece n tionalism end with the Pan-
Asia moveont, the Asi tic onroe Doctrine,ete., which
the J peneee milit ry nu reactionary cocleties have
recently heen viveueting. The f et th t the islunds
are conomically veluoless cnd that neither Janan nor
any other country thought about lt ying clatm to them
notil France did so,  ns nothing to the Japanese jingo
istic el ements which now lurrely dominate both the Govern
nent and the oress.*
Embassy's desnatch No. 500: of August 18, 1938

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.91)
a1x, onhuguoter.16
the Japanose Charga d'Arfa
protest with the Fronch Gove
laims certain soveretgn rights,overa
cording to the press it was admrtled atth
Foreien Office that the French Government may mot
with Jenan's interpretation" of the matter. It
fairly oby ous that the Foreign Ofrice has beiy
in a difricult positi n, having been fereed by
Japanese reaction rie na the press to make cert
demands on + foreign country of the justice of mhioh.
is not ct  cert in.
On August :0 Count D mien de Martel, who has bren
French Ambe:  or to J p n for three years,left Tokyo
701.5194
to t ke uo bis pow outies as Prench High Comnissioher io
Syrir. Count ce rt 1 vill be succcoded in Tokyo by
M. Fornd Pila,  r er French atster to Ciem, and
tly  theai orsay

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.88)
prevaoas1yby
he ontho August.
Stand gxactly what Ls gotng
sgulect of the talus his changaditp
ipeluding the party leadars  the
ithoubrportrolio to that dma1ag ad
Doltoy whicn the Gobinet and all thd Delit
can suppart. The principles whichacord
nress, ths Seiyukai leaders heve roguestea
to support are stated in such.general terma that
gert: in the Cabinet wilt give its approval.the
affair appeors to be a sort of manoeuvring paswed
the readers concer co in which each is try ing to at
much power as ossible cnd to "save face"  h
followers. Each political barty, especially ma Sei
yukai,  uld prefor to establish a governnent composed.
entirely of its om members but mows that thapublie
noss bly b cause of military influence, has no cdnridencey
in party goverment ano that no party cabinet could
therefor last. The only recourse left to it is to gain
 much tn luence es possible over the Gapinet whigh
xists. Ceveral onths ago the Seiyukai Penty under
the inf ucnce of an e ement which believed in the
oo8s15111ty
*Monthly Politicat Reports nd. despatch Noraor on
August 17, 1935.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.85)
pasaed a resplution arntledz
hinet
Now that the leadere te on
to poliey. is cooperatien withhthe Cabinet
nd an excuse for their abeut face and thi haa
one or the subjects of the recent conversation
The tendency for the present Cabine ha
political p rties to get together ds possibly ex 
pleined by certain rumors which cre afloat regarda
early seizure of over by a more reactionary group.
On August l: Finonce Minister Tekahashi made miroriming
remarks to  group of newpener corresnondents at hi
vill: on the se: ore et Hay ma. e stater that thene
oxists ccute danger or s dictatorshi in Japan under
which she w uie retur t state of feudelism He
issue r ne t t this oule  n the end of a
sumbl  er rule  t o le eno urged the poliial
erti s to acont  rosition pnich accuretely reorasents
the
 or tl. There have been other renorts
of e siadr  tere  a
 on bte suurces but it
is
onttthered nd c nsarvetive
 hoveued t is werine
Finnce
(b) The r ls of the Ciy lr military.
an0
The to toi is w teh wore re orteo es
having begun in July c nt u o curine te month of
August to oo  uch hvo tne poace in Japanese
A tr  iel pregreas it becomes more
newe.
and more by  t t the a used men h ve the syapahy
of lirr
the Jaoanese up ic. The authori
ties have been 
pot tions, princinally
rom

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.93)
and nine aadaot symnathizere
tainine thair littte fingers which they had
in protest et the sccusatlons
The trial of the membere orithe Biood
which plotted the assassination of mamy lea
antuelly killed Baron Dan and formor Ffnan
Thouye was interrunteo on July 29 when the 1gemer
the band charged the preciding judge with iheompet
In a very dramatic speech he challenged Judge Saka
maki on the grounds that he was unprepared for the
trial, had railed to watch the oroceedings carefully
had refused to consider the snirit behind the plot
and regarded the defend nts us "simple felbows
The full si mificance of this move was not at first
realized by foreign observers. Lowever, it became
apparent when it was reported that the judge had visitedy
the prisoner in his cell to request him to withdraw
the chorge. This beins unsuccessful, the trials were
suspended while the charges were carried to a higher
court ceurt for  decision on the competency ofJude
Sekamaki.. When the month closed it was understood that
it vould be several months before she trials would be
able to. proceed further
The trials of the eleven Army cadets involven in
the agsansin tion of Premier Inukai reached their raat
stage in Angust.On the 19th, the proourator demanded
sentences of eight years imprisonment for each of the
accused

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.93)
waile he acknowledeed the
plotters and coneeded chat
bew the naval officers, yet.te
hed coumitteo the nost serjousverin
gainst the Ammy Code, that of rebelion,
gardless of motive or object thty were subioct to
of servitude: When the month closed senteng had
been pronounced. However,as stated above,
the public had begun to show their symbathy mt at
besoming difficult to predict mhat the outcon mdl
The trials of the cuval defendants have beent mared
by several in crestin fe tures. The London Haval reat
has been mntioned by each of the accused as the prin
cinal cause of thoir discutisfsction with the present
form of goverrment. The prospect of further reductigns
in the navy if the existing regime had been continued
in ower is a Leged by the acoused to have been the rerson
fer the atteunt to overthrow the government by sassf-
nating the Premier. It was honed thet the assassination,
accomnen ed by ther cets of terroris, would, throw the
city irto such corfusion that wertiel law would be de-
clered and control cventually oas irely into the hand
o the ilit ry.
Considoreble stir wes causeo by the tnnoumcoment
on the port  one of the eccused noval orficers that a
sccond w ve or terrorism had buen pl-nned for later in
tue nieht of  y 1s and that it would have included the
is sination of the Amoricen Anbassador and the American
Consul Gencral. It was said that this had been frustrated
by

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.92)
the arrest of all the plotters eartwan
the hentaiity of the plotters is saeoly the
y 15, 195P. neither the Ambassador norp
Geubral were in Japan. Ambassador Grew had
aesute his duttes and Consul Gonaral frrels
nited States on leave of absence. From hid
tatements which have becn made it is anparent
"plotters in mal ing their plans did not have the
of enyone close to ofricial circles in Tokyo.
As the navarl cf cers have been proved to ha
the leaders in the May 15 incident their sentence e
awa1ted with interest. It is pumored that the procutatc
will demand the de th nene lty for some of them. If this
is done it is vory probable that more protests wilr be
submitted by the r cti n ry grouns in Janan and aome
vepole preafct that it will produce serious difficulties
for the Gover ment, or ihly involving the overthro
of the present Cebinet.
(c) Aray ond Nayy Manoeuvres
Durire the onty bf August both the Jananese
Army cro the Navy stapnd mauoeuvres which were obvtonsly
of a pronagunde nature. On the nights of August oth oth,
and Loth the Army staged sir raids over the Kwanto distriot
Which in luded both Tolyo cnd Yokohama El borate
regul tions were issued regaruing c ntrol of lights and
civilian grouns were organized to heln enforce them
The entire populace vas asked to cooparete aae pra tm
point or view the nanoenvres wereano rently one hundred
per cent succecsful. The neonle appearen to ba enthused
vitn

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.91)
apirit and vieawmith eanh o
Burtngrthe latter mrt of August the
Iso given wide publicity and muchromp
na he necessity for the Empire to axman
forces. All of this was undoubtedly a part of
ions being made to obtain lurge military and nyal
praations from the next session of the Diet.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
11
DOVEOMENT PINANCEY
The Puaget for the Fiscai tear B
Ar11rr194
The Finance Department asked the
Government departments to submit their estimat
penditures for the fiseal year 1984-5 not later
July z1, 1933.  Several departments complied i
request nd others submitted their statements durr
ugust. It was soon anparent thst if althe denn
were met the budget for next year would for ekgtod the
one for-the present fiscal year. The Finance Ministh
then announced th t the demands for the War and Wavy
Depertments woulu be met but that the other departwents
would h ve to be cut. This nnouncement iuuadiately
produced un cutcry from the others, espeoially the.
Foreign fice. The inister for Foreign Afreirs hes
planned  orogram of exnansion of foreign offiee actir
vities on pe  lf cf J nur se trade. As reported in last
month's Political Report, he plans to set an a trade
com iari n in  is departrent and he aiso wants to estab-
lish new minsions in several ccuntries in the Near East.
This recuires now anpronriations. The Bureau.of Agri
culture and Forestry has  for st tion scheme nd other
plans which it considers csontial for imoroving the
condition of the farmers. The Ministry of Communicationa.
vants to include in its a pronriations a subsidy for
stepmship

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.89)
Abureauof
ropriation for hewhgo
many protests
vilian depertments of
imanco Minister has an un nviable job on

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.91)
MERAL BOONONLO AND FIRANE
(Noat or thia saction 4o
received trot the
() Foraim Trad4.rmee
rdays by" the Jananese Ministry, of Finanoe regatging,
volume of Japan's foreign trade, the exnorte nd
 tmports through the month of August were.as tollorss
Exports
135,300
70
August 1982
180,582
1282
Angust 1953
795,900
955,662
Jenuary to August;193
1,285,619
1,169,174
Janu ry to August, 1232
The exportat on of silk textiles for the first ha
of 1937 showed n increase over the same ner1ed of.1asty
of 39.17. India, Egyot, Lustraliay snd South Africe
proved excention lly profit ble m rkets.
As  result of high tariffs imnosed on Japanese
cotton goods in fore n u rkets, x orts of cotton
Hight grode
durine mer, June. ond July fell off. .
productr showed norticularly heavy losses. However, duing
August heavy chionents were m de to India end south
stern Asle dn nticination of even higher tariers there
The yalue of Japan's exnorts to Manchuria duting
the first seven months of 1933 was 156 mi1l1on yen, as
comnared vith 67 millton yen for the same period of 19
Expopts to China Prover remuined Stabre but imports
from

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.85)
eeen 25 centd in th
oint on (1) ohe a11n
miletton within the sterlin
epproaching tmnort seasomr. in
aited uafavorahle fora1en trade
the latter oart of the your nd 1
Japan.
(c) tatistics showing Business Imorovement
Several sets of statistics were pubrrshea uint
August which show that conditi he in dupen hate h
in recent months.
t the end or July thepostal rvinge denosrtr
numpared over 40 n lion, dh inenease of over  thous
oven the Jpre fieuro: de os ts awountee to dver h winian
yea, an increase of 35 million. als rerlepts ipprove
mene in financial conoitions Inthe inteo alspr
tespeciatly in the siIk section.
a the tt st cal Bureau of theyeabinet has 
the
wea1thO1
ishedrtgyres showing that
walued at Yen 101.1801004,000 The.Valdy.or

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.92)
amabnted to Yen 4o0o,dod rep
r Yen645,000, ove19
cofpea from January to July of thia yeh
Ym 148298,000, an Increase of Yen 110
the same periou or last year.
Recent re orts indicate a marked incre
transactions durin the:last twelve
Prices. In Janan, particularly in Tokyo, hate
abont 10% over August; 1932. Many banks. reno
crease of as much as 20% in rea1 astate 1oms
The markeu increase in investments in bends and:oth
securities is inuicative of the conmercial and Industral
activity in Japan. August investments were lower thn
those in July but were 145% more than those for August,
1930. Invest nts since the beginning. of this year anount
to Yen 2,825,01,000, en 1ncrease of Yen 1,985,410000
over the same perlo o last year/
(d) Ef ect of the Liftin of Embargo on Newly-mined
Gol in America.
The ction of the American Goverument in lirting
the cmbur go on ne ly- lined golu on August 29 caused 
meetin in Tokyo of the Associ ti n of Mineral Produors
at which it was decided to peti tion thé JenameseGovere
ment to incre se its purchuse price for gold. The
resent orice is Yeur 75.4s76 per ounce. Tmasmuch as t
American Government's acti n is expected to foree the

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.86)
af1
nt isctingetoreathraa freeng
pas are dacing serious difficulties, The ftranshi
mont or,the gasoline whieh Nr. kojinovgetmukata cpet
to bay feom the Soviets ar ived in Yokohame mir
Angtst end two more ahpoments re on their
PEOS
tankg have been erected snd the isportet now hes
phets of merketing bis product, which he canfapparentiy
sell at rice considerabl lower than the locat marke
leanwhile th selling agreewent mder which the six
estantished c mpen es have beer operc ting for neariy a
year has exoired tnd  new gne is being drawm uo The
Govermment hos forced the to roreign companies- one
Anprican und one British- to  gree tó : system of guotas
watch vil grevent their haring prosortionstely in the
exoected expension of the Jhnanese gasoline trader During
the past year these to compantes have contrnla ed oper
50% of the m rket.Under the newre reement they. may seri
what

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.90)
commnTe
ous sales but the second halr wily
between them. The ofric als of the twe fore
believe that this is the first sten n the e
the Jananese to "sou eze out" the forigners and
the sasalfme tr de under the control or their
coatrymen
* mb aay's d santch No. 507 of August 31, 193

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.83)
THITIHSORFOAEIGN
LABOB·AND EJIGRATSDN:
1
BIGCELAJFOGS
(a) Death or Dr. Freder1ef, Starr
Dr. Frederick Starr, American abthrpholo
Wigled at St. Luke's Hospitel, Toloro on Aug
neral, which was held on the 16th, was attended by
Z00 peonle incluiing the Jr o nere Premier and othe
Jananese notables. Eulog1stic addresses were
Mr. Scdae Fuchiy a iember o the Houserof Peer
ar. Jiuji Kasat, a memb r  the Tokyo Municipal Asse

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
DESPATCHES TO THE DEPARTENT DURING
AUGUST 1955.
No
Date
Sub jeet
487
August 4,
Diplomatic visa report.
488
8,
Railway report.
489
8,
Relief for foreigners who suffered loss during
the hostilities between Japan and China.
490
9,
Political report for July.
491
9,
Foreign Policy of Japan.
492
10,
Submission of Form No. 313.
493
11,
Diplomatic visa report.
494
n
11,
Copy of Instruotions to Diplomatic
Orficers for Mr. Lyon.
495
14,
Japanese rumors of American skullduggery
in China.
496
n
14,
Reaction in Japan to rumors of Soviet-
American rapprochement.
497
17,
The Saito Govermment and the Political Parties.
498
π
17,
Smuggling of narcotics.
499
8
18,
Peruvian purchase of Japanese armaments.
500
18,
Shonan Islands dispute.
501
n
18,
Diplometic visa report.
502
n
18,
Japan and the Soong loens to China.
503
22,
Inventory card for League of Nations
Treaty Series.
504
n
24,
Aid given American commercial interests
by the Embassy.
505
n
25,
Diplomatic visa report.
506
n
31,
Apparent adoption by the Japanese of friendly
attitude towards the United States.
507
n
31,
Japan's oil problems.
508
31,
Occupancy of government-owned quarters by
Mr. Schuler and Mr. Hayes.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAMS TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
AUGUST 1933.
No
Date
Sub ject
129
August 1, 1 p.m.
Departure of Major General Itagaki
for the United States.
130
4, 4 p.m.
American aid to Chinese aviation.
131
7, 1l a.m. Departure of Mr. Dickover.
132
7, 1 p.m.
Denial of American aid to Chinese
aviation.
133
25, 2 p.m.
Receipt of new code tables.
134
"25, 2 p.m.
n
n
n
8

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
1933
OCT 14 1933
Despatch No. 510.
DERTMENTOFSTATE
Date: September 5, 1933.
Subject:
Monthly Renort on Conditions in Japan
During the Tonth of
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
WE
Summary:
OCI 23 1933
I. The Jonanese pres has continued its
attacks on Dr. Teusler, which were
last month's renort. The ne
pub ished absurd rumors of the establishment of
American n val b ses in Magdalena Bay and in Fukien
Tation. Sever:1 American "rsdicals" have been
asked to 1 ve Janan. On the other hand higher
Japanese officials cnpear to have gone out of their
way to express friendly feelings towerd the United
States. America's naval building program has
aop: rently soricu-ly unset the pl ns of the Jana-
nese Navy Dep rtment, which counted on the American
peo les' unwillingness to build u, their navy.
The Japanere have ceosed to be concerned with possible
American recognition or the Soviets.
II. Several Jepenese Government denartments have
been busy prenarin" for the London and Simla trade
conferences  nd the Jananese delegations are on their
way to their resnective meeting places. Little hope
is held for  successful outcome of the conferences.
Mr. T V Soong passed through the Japanese ports
without comin~ shore. The Japanese consider him their
most powerful enemy in China, but opear to hope that
his influence in the Peioing district will subside in
favor of r. Huang Fu, whom they now sup ort. The
negotiations for the purchase by "Manchukuo" of the
Chinese mactern Railway continue without any tangible
results. The Soviets h ve psid an indemnity for the
murder of three Japanese fishermen. Japanese officials
continue to make optimistic announcements regarding
the progress of "Manchukuo" toward self-government.
The Jananese press has forced the Foreign Office to
protest the French claim to the Shonan Islands. France
has chenged her Amba sador to Japan.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.97)
Summary- Despatch No. 510
-2 -
III. Mysterious volitical conversations continue in
connection with the present Cabinet's attempt to secure the
full support of all the political parties. Meanwhile
there are rumors of the establishment of a dictatorship.
The trials of the reactionaries,-civilian and military-
who perpetrated the various terroristic acts of early
1932 continue to attract uch attention in Tokyo. Both
the Army and Navy staged manoeuvres during August with the
obvious intent of obtaining sunport for their budgetary
äemands.
V. The estimates of the various Japanese Government
departments for their needs during the fiscal year 1934-5
indicate that it will be ai ficult for the Finance Minister
to keep the budget uovn to the figure for the current year.
VI. Japan's exnort trade shows appreciable increase
for the past year. Foreign Exchange has romained stable.
Various sets of st tistics published by the Gover ment
show marked iaprove ent in business during recent months.
The lift'ng of the emborgo on nowly wined gold in the United
States h: caused the Jaoanese mining interests to become
more ontiuistic over their situ tion. The gasoline trade
in Japan fsces disruption as a result of the importation of
Soviet gun line whiel is beine sold well below the market
price. The two foreign oil comoanics- one British tnd one
American- are having :n esnncially horc time bocause of
develooments in the t de.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
1933
AFFAIRS
October 24, 1933.
Tokyo'apolitical report for September
covers old ground, it will repay reading in
full.
With regard to the section on the ap-
pointment of the new Foreign Winister, it
is interesting to note, in view of recent
developmente, that Tokyo papers assume that
American recognition of Russia would be a
foregone conclusion and that it will occur
before January, 1934.
On page 6 the Embaesy anplifies ite
brief deepatch forwarding a cony of an
editorial on the wheat and cotton loan
which recently appeared in the Japan
Chronicle. The Embassy does not indicate
who has put forward the claim or the as-
nere Association is said to be angling for
the purchase of the American cotton sold to
China on condition that the Chinese boycott
on Japanese textiles be stopped, that the
increase of the "consolidated tax" be in-
definitely suspended, and that import dutiee
on certain Japanese goods bevraised.
The

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
The statement on page & that the new
Minister for Foreign Affairs privately in-
vited the Chinese Winister to return to
Japan is of some interest. The Foreign
Minister is credited with the view that
improvement of Japan's relations with China
must form the basis of Janan's foreign policy
as difficultiee with other important powers
arise out of those relatione.
You will find on pagee 9 and 10 a brief
outline of the scope of the trade conference
at Simla. I have received the impression
from other sourcee the the conversations
have not been eo eterile as one might be.
has actually been in effect on purchases of
Indian cotton, as indicated by the fact that
exports of cotton from the United States to
Japan during the first six monthe of the
present calendar year are said to be about
70 per cent greater than for the correspond-
ing period last year. Thie fact would eug-
gest a very important consideration which the
Japanese might offer to India in return for
more favorable customs treatment.
Comment on the appointment of Mr. Hircta
as Foreign Winiater will be found on page 17.
It

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
It is of interest to observe that Vr. Hirota
is turning out to be considerably more
moderate than was suggested in the Embassy'e
earliest telegram on this subject.
The account given on pages 18, 19 and
20 of the trial of civil and military ter-
roriete is well worth reading.
You will find a ratrer diverting example
of an alliance between knavery and patriotiem
in Section C of page 20.
The diecuesion of the change in the
organization of the Japanese Naval General
Staff on page 22 is inadequate. I shall
prepare an inatruction to Tokyo, tranemitting
for their information a copy of the Division'e
memorandum on the sare subject.
In reading the section on the budget, it
is neceesary to bear in mind that one or two
of the large azounts mentioned therein are
"continuing accounte". The second naval
program apparently vill amount to 728,000,000
yen, to be spent over a period of four years,
the allotment for the coming fiscal year to
be 210,009,000 yen. Similerly the appropria-
tion of 330,000,000 yen asked for by the
Departrent of Communicatione is also pre-
sumably a continuiny acccunt and will be
spread

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4-
apread over a certain number of yeare. In
connection with the latter it may be of interest
to note that the revenues of the Department
of Gommunications covering the telephone and
telegraph eyatems are paid into tne national
trearury and become a part of the total
revenues of the Government, while the De-
partment of Railways has an independent ac-
count, using from its revenuee sume neceseary
for maintenance and new equipment and paying
in to the national treasury only the net
profits. This is one of the reasone why the
public utilities under the Department of Com-
municatione are so uneatisfactory.
The diecuesion on Japanese oil problems,
beginning on page 28, is for the most part
not new. There is however one important piece
of information, which was comnunicated to the
Embasey by the Foreign Office on Sentember 13.
The Foreign Office spokesman eaid that if he
were in the place of the foreign oil companies
operating in Japan he would "hesitate to
increase their existing investments in
Japan".
The paragraph on the pcrted concession
of land granted by the Ethlop an Government
to a group of Jananese for the trowing of
cotton and the open poppy shouli not be
overloaked.
9ah
FE:EHD: ABW

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
2728
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 3, 1933.
No. 541.
9-11;14-15
SUBJECT:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
during the Month of September, 1933.
3
DIVIOND
15
EASTERREURUCEAFFAIRS.
LEGAL ADVISER
qynnFE
32
Division of
DFPARTMINT OF STATE
DE RIMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
82
12-18
OCT 23 1933
0CT21 33
Depertmont of State
S
700
76
C
0
DEP
10
9
0
P
ONI
OCT 30 1933
-AID
SARIMEN PTATE
NEAR
COP SENT TO
Honorable
O. N.I. ANDM I.D
DION OF
The Secretory of State,
OCT
1030
AFFAIRE
Washington.
e1
1933
gannt of ghata
Vith referncc to th Tepartnent's instruc-
tion No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly rcport on conditions in Japan
for the month of Septomber, 1933.
FILED
Respectfully yours,
1933
Enclosure:
Report No. 84
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Joseph C. Grew.
n
" Consulate General, Shanghai
n
" Consulate General, Mukden
" Consulate General, Harbin
In quadruplicate to the Department
Copy to Consulate, Dairen.
800-Japan
CBLJGP:g

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER, 1933.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
I I D E X AND SUDARY.
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED
(a) Appoint ment of Hirota as Minister for
Foreign Affairs indicates improvemont
of American-Japanase Relations.
(b) Japanese Reaction to the American Naval Plam
(c) Reaction in Japan to the Cuban Revolution.
(a) Japanese Reaction to the United States! Wheat
and Cotton Loan to China.
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
.6,7,8,9.
(b) The British Empire.
9,10,11.
(c) "Manchukuo".
.11,12.
(d) Sale of Chinese Eastern Railway..
.12,13.
(e) Soviet Russia.
.13,14.
(f) Dutch East Indies.
.14,15.
(g) Mexico.
.15.
(h) Germany.
.15.
(1) Arrival of Polish and Finnish Ministers.15.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
.16,17.
(b) The Trials of the Civilian, Military and
Naval Assassins.
.18,19,20.
(c) Other Reactionary Activities.
.20,21.
(d) The Army.
21.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
(a) Revisal of Naval Ordinance.
22,23.
(b) Rice Control.
23,24.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
(a) The Budget.
25,26.
(b) Restoration of Free Gold Market by Japan
denied
.26.
VI.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
2
Index (continued)
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND PINANCIAL CONDITIOI
(a) Foreign Trade Figures.
(b) Foreign Exohange.
(c) Miscellaneous financial notes.
(d) Japan's oil problems.
28,29,
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS: WIL
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS....
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
(a) Balboa Day.
.88.
(b) Natural calamities.
33.
(c) Changes in personnel of the Mitsui organiza-
tion.
33,34

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.96)
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITRTH
(a) Appotutment af Hirot
Actaama indaoataa imoroy
ese Relations:
The month of September was marked by a dis
improvement in the Japanese-American relatiomm.
pointment of Koki Hirota, former Ambassador to th
7
as Minister for Foreign Affairs was the occasion tor the
reiteration by numerous high officials of the nechssity
of Japan's pursuing a policy of amity toward the Unito
States.* Hirota has not only expressed publicly on sevorai
occasions since his appointment his deep concern about the
future of Japanese-American relations but he has also indieated
privately that his principal preoccupation while in office
would be the development of better relations with the
United States. In fact he even went so far as to state
that this was his primary reason for having accepted the
appointment.**
While Mr. Hirota may have welcomed his new appointment
as an opportunity to develop good relations with the United
States, it was undoubtedly not his sole reason for accept-
ing the difficult portfolio when offered to him. Much pub-
EE
licity has been given to his ability to deal with the Soviets,
wich may be considered of twofold advantage at this time
since the Tokyo papers have printed nunerous stories which
assume United States' r cognition of the Soviet as a foregone
conclusion and predict that it will occur before January
1934.
(b)
*See Telegrams Nos. 138, 139 and 141 of Sept. 14 and 15.
**See Telegram No. 144, Sept. 18, 4 p.m.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
The local press-continues to
sention to the conatruction plans of the
Navy.* Refusing to mcogmise the very obviomfa
this construction was undertaken with a view to
lieving unemployment in the United States theap
papers indicate that America's building plans a
undertaken with a view to forestalling the aims of J
at the 1935 Naval Conference. The Japanese naval 1eader
had anticipated clear sailing at this conference: a they
had counted upon their own navy being built to the treity
limit while that of the United States would be but 75%
effective. Nevertheless it appears that the original plat
to demand an increase in the Japanese ratio at the next
conference will be carried out and the OSAKA MAINICHI of
September 8, carried a story to the effect that the now
ratio should be 10:10:7.3. This demand will be based 
the claim that the present ratio is 1nadequate for the de-
fense of the Empire. Though obsessed with the idea of in-
creasing her navy the idea of a naval race with the United
States is most distasteful to Japan. How anxious she is
to avoid it is indicated by a story which appeared in most
of the Japanese papers following a visit of the Counselor
of this Embassy to the Foreign Office.** Although this
visit ooncerned only a routine matter, it was seized upon
by the journalists who proclaimed it an American overture
to end the naval race. Mr. Neville's denial of having
even touched on the subject was given scant attention. The
mere fabrication of this story, however, indicates the
present
*See Despatch No. 520, Sept.15.
**See Despatch No. 534, Sept. 29.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.96)
months, was quoted in the OsaxA
at he favored a big navy not for
trality. It is difficult For the Japandse'wi
tic point of view to believe such statements,
are with the idea that the"whole construetion
aimed at them. It is to explain their point of
nawal expansion which is given by the press as ont
purposes of Toshio Shiratori's visit to the taited
(c) Reaction in Japan to the Cuban Revolutic
The recent events in Cuba have received more th
nary attention in the local press. The Japanese comeeive
87.
from the start a certain analogy between Cuba and mManohiirno
and have watched the part played by the United States With.
the greatest of interest.** America's right to intervene 1
A
uniformly conceded in view of both her financial interests
and her strategic position. For any nation whose vested
interests extend beyond the national boundaries may be re-
quired to exercise the right of such interests. Therefor
many editorials which have appeared on the subject stross
the point that American intervention in Cuban affairs 1s
proof of the illogic of American criticism of Japan's action
in Manchuria. The OSAKA ASAHI states:  "If the United
States attempts armed intervention in Cuba, the action will
attract the attention of the world in view of the Manchurian
incident
.......The United States will not be in a positibn
to criticize Japan's action in Manchuria because she would
be
*See Despatch No. 515, Sept. 12.
**See Despatch No. 519, Sept. 15.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
be Tollowing Japan's eaample an
There has been furthermore a notieeable
cover Latin-American resentment at
interpvention and to give undue prominence to
ings. There has been little or no mentlon 
treaty right to intervene in Cuba.
and Cotton Loan to Chine.
Obviously the cotton and wheat loan negotiated b
V. Soong on his recent trip to the United States was bour
to me t unfavorable criticism in Japan. Of this the pres
has given ample evidence during September.* Articles pro
claimed it an unfriendly gesture on the part of the United
States inasmuch as themoney derived by the Nanking Govern-
ment from the sale of these commodities would be spent, it
was believed, on munitions to be used against the Japanese.
The JAPAN CHRONICLE of September 28 in an editorial
entitled "The Most Shameful Loan" points out that as it is
1mpossible for the Chinese spinners to use this cotton the
inevitable purchasers must be the Japanese spinners in China.
Therefore the prohibition of the Japanese Cotton Spinners
Association to its members against buying any of this cotton
was not motivated entirely from nationalistic incentives
but rather with a view towards collective bargaining and so
securing the entire amount at a more favorable price. The
CHRONICLE, contrary to most of the newspapers, goes on to
state: "What is China going to get out of all this? It is
one of the most cynical swindles ever perpetrated....... This
year with a very larg crop (of cotton), she will have more
than ever to sell, and no use whatever for the American fibre.
Japan, at least, will profit magnificently, out of the
business
*Despatch No. 538, Sept. 29.

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.95)
Musiness..." This after the fantaatio
which greeted the announcement of ths Iben
the other extreme.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
RELATIONE WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
On September 1 anxiety for the safety of Japang
nationals in Fukien Province was lessened by the nows
that the city of Yenping had been recaptured frop the
Communist invaders. Nevertheless later reports indioated
793.94
that conditions in Fukien remain unsettled, and Japanese,
British, and American naval forces are standing by at
Foochow to protect their respective citizens.
In regard to the possible effect of the "Wheat and
Cotton Loan"*, referred to in the previous section of this
report, on Sino-Japanese relations it will be remembered that
members of the Japanese Cotton Spinners Association are the
only potential purchasers of the American cotton. Before
considering purchase the Association requires,it is reported,
strict prohibition by the Chinese authorities of the boycott
on Japanese textiles, it cemands an undertaking that the
increase of the "consolidated tax" be indefinitely suspended,
and it insists that the import duties on certain Japanese
goods be not raised. Eventually, it is claimed, the Associ-
ation will take over the entire stock at its own price there-
by nullifying for a time the sacrifices entailed by the boy-
cott on Indian co ton and further ennabling it to bargain
to advantage for American cotton through the normal channels.
Although there is no means of checking the truth of news-
paper: statements, it appears logical that the eventual pur-
chasers of the cotton must be Japanese, who, acting in unison,
are obviously in a position to squeeze China. That such a
course would further embitter the Nanking Government against
Japan
*See Pespatc No. 588, Sept. 29, 1937.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
with tegard to Chime.*me Ji
kuo" as her "lifeline* and feersa
tanger her Manchurian policy.
asquainted Japanese recently called on a:
bassy staff apparently with the purposs of
the sensitiveness of the Japanese publie to fo
is due to the fear that China, with the holp f
powers, will attempt to regain Manohuria. It im
claimed, that Japan really fears and in this way 
plained the outbursts against alleged American asmist
to China, the open suspicions concerning Dr. L. W Baje
League of Nations technical adviser to the Nanking Gor
ment, and the vigilance with which incidents in North China
are awaited. It is furthermore a leading reason for Japamt
determination to arm itself to the teeth. It was emphasiznd
by the Japanese mentioned above that acceptanee by the
United States of "Manchukuo" as a fait accompli would change
Japan's t nse and truculent attitude toward foreign nations.
Late in September the Japanese public was alarmed by a
threat to the peace of the Tangku Truce area. General Fang
Chen-wu and a group of associated generals announced that
they were inaugurating a campaign to overthrow the Nanking
Government and, in order to invest Peiping, it would be
necessary to enter the demilitarized area. The situation
which ensued could hardly have been distasteful to the Japan-
ese
*See Despatch No. 527, Sept. 26, 1933.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.96)
ilitary Attsah
War permission to sene Chir
Moil, and the Foreign Office in Tok
its representatives abroad to explain
state that Japan would in no way violate
ent. After several days when a cleah nekn
probable, the comparatively small forces of
generals retreated, and it was reported on Depteh
that General Fang had offered to surrender. Inguiry
War Office led to the belief that the Army woul
occupation of Peiping unless absolutely neeessary and
the Fang rebellion was a rather welcome reminder to the
League of Nations that it was wrong in considering Cminm
an organized state.
The appointment of Mr. Koki Hirota as Minister for
Foreign Affairs*injected new blood into the efforts to deal
seriously with the problem of ameliorating Sino-Japanase:
relations. It was stated in the press that the Japanose
Minister to China was about to negotiate with the Nanking
Government in an attempt to settle pending problems, and
it was further reported that the Chinese Minister to Japan,
Mr. Chang Tso-ping, will soon return to Tokyo after a fur-
lough of some months. The new Foreign Minister is an old
friend of Mr. Chang and he is supposed to have wired him an
informal request to return. Mr. Hirota is credited with
the belief that relations with China must form the keystone
o
*See Telegram No. 141, Sept. 15, 1933.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
Positiw
se relations seem quite likel
As the month ended the
Wellington Koo before the League Asm
received with resentment by the Sapanese prest
less of what the reaction of the Goverament
evident that Dr. Koo's speech will be an irrit
present trend towards improved relations betw
Japan.
WE
(b) The British Empire
The commercial world has been deeply preeecupled by
the problem of trade relations with the British Empire.
This interest has been brought to a climax with the convi
ing on September 23 of the long-heralded Simla-Conferenoe.
45.9431
which was preceded and will be followed by trade convor
sations in London of a broader scope to review not only
Empire but world markets. Japan has gone to Simla to avert
non-treaty status between India and Japan and to seek re-
admittance to the Indian market which has virtually been
closed to her with the adoption of the new 75% duty. India
wishes to protect both her mill owners who are unable to meet
Japanese competition and her cotton growers who will suffer
from the imposition by the Japan Cotton Spinners Assoeiation
of a boycott against Indian cotton. England wishes to pro-
tect Empire markets and seems determined to shut Japan out.
It is argued that India and England possess a great advantage
64517431/14
1n
* See Despatch No. 524, Sept. 16, 1933.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
10
uniformity that
t odasequently the boyeott of
very costly venture. To daty, howe
but little progress is reported save apl
Indo-Japanese Commercial Treaty for one
ber l0sn This suggestion has been mpproyed by
although the Japanese delegation is disappointed
extension was not for the duration of the Cemfer
Indian delegation has expressed agreement in prima
the Japanese proposal that India does not raise tarit
or take any action which "would cast gloom" over the
ference. Just what concessions Japan 1s willing to
is not clear yet but talk of a quota system and export
control persists. Cotton textiles so far this year have
nearly displaced silk as the country's leading export, and
business interests fully realize the vital importance of
the Simla Conference which will determine the fate of Japants
biggest market. If the Conference fails, a trade war will
ensue which will not be confined to cotton textiles but will
affect rayon, wool, and a host of minor industries.
On September 6 the three British ship's officers who
were captured by brigands at Newchwang on March 29 were
finally released after payment of a large ransom and wero
turned over to the "Manchukuo" and Japanese authorities.
Sixteen vessels of the British Asiatic Fleet are to
visit Japanese ports this fall. On September 28 the cruiser
KENT with Admiral Sir Frederick Dreyer on board reached
Yokohama

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.96)
ant welcome da visit
elearly the irrespommibility of th
rhet that the current "spyphobias 1m
American but anti-foreign in nature.
(c) "Manomiuo"
With the exception of the Chinese
conferenee September was not marked by amy
velopments in Japan-"Manchukuo" relations,
15 the first anniversary of the recegnitiom or
by Japan was celebrated with appropriate oeremo
lic interest appeared mild. A joint Sovlet-Japs
kuo" commission has been proposed for the dalimiteti
the"Manchukuo" border; the sixth division bas beenr
from Manchuria and will be replaced by detachments from
other divisions; a Japan-"Manchukuo" Business Assooiatien
has been sponsored by the Japanese Chamber or Commeroe a
a result of the recent econonic conference held in Daizen
a Franco-Japanese** "Association for the Promotion of In-
vestment in Manchukuo" has been organized without, it ap
pears, much rejoicing on the part of the Freneh members;
and on September 18, the second anniversary of the out-
break of the "Manchuria Incident", it was announeed that
to date 3,266 Japanese soldiers had been killed in actión
in Manchuria. Bubonic plague in epidemic form is reported
to be raging in North Manchuria, the "Manchukuo" budget is
reported balanced with the bulk of the revenue raised by
other means than direct taxation of the population; and on
September
*See Despatch No. 537, Septe 30, 1933
** See Despatch No. 516, Sept. 13, 1933

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
Recently/executive of the National Co
to Tokyo after an extensive trip in
edthat consular opinion is virtumlly
reoogmition of "Manchukuo" as the only means
political and economic absorption of Manchuria
The Japanese, are trying conscientiously to 
"Open Door" but nevertheless the prospects for fore
ness are closely linked with the questlon of redogmit
The Japanese had materially improved conditions
making progress with the bandit problem. The new re
he belfeves, has come to stay, but nevertheless Manchuria
will remain ethnically and socially Chinese, and it is the
Chinese who will in the long run reap the benefit of Japint
efforts.
(d) Sale of Chinese Eastern Railway**
Negotiations for the sale of the Chinese Eastern Rail-
way made no progress during September and threatened at the
841.77
end of the month to cause a serious diplomatic dispute be-
EE
tween Japan and Russia. After five sessions of the Con-
ference in Tokyo there were contradictory rumors to the
effect that (1) the sale of the road for 80 million yen
had been practically arranged and that (2) the deadlock
still persisted. The latter rumor would appear correct
from the recent change in the attitude of the "Manchukuo"
authorities in North Manchuria who, besides arresting
some
*See Despatch No. 526, Sept. 25, 1933
**See Despatch No. 535, Sept. 29, 1933

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
18
some of the ablest executives employed by 
alleged misconduct, seised on September 
Pogranitchnaya and Manchouli, eastern and west
of the railroad. Previous to this action the Boviwt
ment had warned the Japanese Government against seisute
the road and stated that it would hold Japan otrictiy re
ponsible for "Manchukuo"'s actions. The Poreign Orfice
maintained the fiction that Japan was not concerned. by
forwarding the protest to "Manchukuo". Nevertheloss the
1ssue has become more than a business deal betweenManohu
E
kuo" and Soviet Russia, and accordingly the reports that the
new Minister for Foreign Affairs will soon mediate to setti
the question seem plausible. Decisive events in October
are expected by many commentators.
(e) Soviet Russia*
While the Chinese Eastern Railway dispute is the most
critical issue at the present time, various other factor
761.94
tended during the month of September to draw the attention
of foreign observors to Soviet-Japanese relations. The con-
tinuance of petty, irritating border incidents, the Japanese
ambitions in Kamchatka, and Mongolia and the growing mili-
tary strength of Soviet Russia in the Far East have all tended
toward an eventual conflict if, as is believed, they are less
likely to cause an immediate crisis. The Soviet Ambassador
at a recent inner in Tokyo for representatives of the foreign
press stated that Soviet Russia was at the limit of its pa-
tience in dealing with Japan and stated that she was ready and
able to conduct offensive or defensive measures if necessary.
This note of defiance is becoming increasingly noticeable in
the
* See despatch No. 536, Sept. 29, 1933

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
spring of 1935 or 1936 as the most likely dat
opinlon on the fact that Japan wi1l then We furty
to strike. the concentration of large fors
*Manohukuo" border and the presence of some 500
planes near Vladivostock, capable of wrecking havoe
wooden cities of Japan, are proving extremely disq
the military. It is believed, however, that the
is just launahing its modernization program is anmioug
avoid war at the present time especially with the tast of
consolidating "Manchukuo" still incomplete. In this gon-
nection the appointment of Mr. Hirota as Poreign Mintster
may be most helpful. Mr. Hirota, a former Ambassador to
Moscow, is credited with great ability in dealing with
the Soviets and is known to be anxious to find a peaceful
solution of the difficult situation with Soviet Russia. Ru-
mors have recently appeared in the press that Soviet Russi
is anxious for American recognition before a confliot with
Japan occurs.
(f) Dutch East Indies
An official of the Dutch Legation in Tokyo* told a
member of the Embassy staff that his government gas watch-
ing closely the progress of the Simla Conference. Japanese
W
textiles have made tremendous inroads on the East Indies
market in recent months to the detriment of the Dutch tex-
tile industry. He stated that eventually action would pro-
bably be necessary.
*See Despatch No. 524, Sept. 16, 1933

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
onBeptembez 28 it
press that the Duteh Government had propo
between representatives of the cotton trade
Holland immediately after the trade con
betwaen Japan and England. The Japanese Cotton
Association is reported reluctant to adcapt the
The Dutch East Indies market is at presmnt Japan!
largest textile market taking some le% of the total
(g) Mexioo
Some time ago a Mexican trade representative arrire
in Tokyo and early in September announced that Mexico wish
to import Japanese goods. Another press report states that
the Mexican Government desires a revision of the present
612.9481
commerioal treaty between Japan and Mexico.
(h) Germany
According to a despatch from Berlin the German Govern-
ment has raised the duty on certain articles of Japanese
WE
origin and it is feared that this action is the forerunner
of a general tariff increase aimed at Japanese goods. Other
despatches state that a new law has been passed which will
eliminate the Manchurian soy bean from the German market
which normally takes an important proportion of the ex-
portable surplus.
(i) Arrival of Polish and Finnish Ministers
The new Polish Minister, Mr. Mihal Moscicki, recently
701.60094
arrived in Tokyo. He is a son of the President of Poland.
Mr. Hugo Valvanne, first Finnish Minister to Japan,
also arrived recently. Previously the Legation has been
headed by a Chargé d'Affaires.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
III: INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) -The Cabinet.
The calls which Premier Saito recently made on
presidents of the three principal politioal parti
seeking their support and cooperation in the
which he declares the country now faces, would appoar
to have been successful. On September 6 forty repmespita
tives of the House of Peers called on the Premier at 
request in order that he might formally request their
support. While the Peers had never attached much im-
portance to the meeting it accomplished even less than
they had expected. Count Matsudaira, the Vice President,
in a press interview, frankly regretted that the Premier's
statements at the meeting were too vague, and said that a
letter to the Peers would have been as effective and saved
them the trouble of assembling. However the following day
it was reported that the Premier would call on Prince
Saionji to report on the national policy agreement and ask
the Genro's support. Following this the entire matter
seemed to fade from the press which devoted itself strenuous-
ly to the subject of the resignation of the Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
Although it had been reported some weeks ago that due
to ill health Count Uchida was contemplating resignation,
when he actually did so on September 14 it proved a surprise
to many foreign observ rs.* Various reasons have been ad-
vanced for the chunge and prior to his departure for America
Mr. Shiratori, thc newly appointed Minister to Sweden, pre-
dicted
*Telegram No. 138, Sept. 14, 11 a.m.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
dioced that many important changes would
in the near future.* However, sage obaerve
that Count Uchida's resignation resulted not
dissatisfaction on his part with the polieios
present Government but rather because of the ostamai
reason of ill health.** The selection of Kokl tro
as his successor received most favorable comment from th
press.***
The JAPAN ADVERTISER of September 15 carried a typi
cal example of the sentiments expressed at this time
when it said: "Renewed vitality in Japan's diplomacy ts
seen in practically all quarters, political, military, and
patriotic, as a result of the assumption of the Foreign
portfolio in the Saito Cabinet yesterday afternoon by Mr.
Koki Hirota, who is regarded as one of the most vigorous
of the nation's diplomats ......" As stated previously
Mr. Hirota, as a former Ambas ador to the Soviet, is looked
upon as one most ably suited to carry on the numerous deli-
cate negotiations which have arisen of late between that
country and Japan. His conciliatory powers too have been
given extreme praise and although he has publicly announced
his intention of following the basic policies of his pre-
decessor nunerous editorials point out that he will do so
with more vigor and ability and consequently should prove
more effective. Though many attribute his selection to the
negative factor that by it none would be displeased the
criticism which it has evoked con only be secribed as most
ortimistic.
(b)
*SeeDespatch No. 515, Sept. 12.
**eTelegram No. 141,Sept. 15, 3 p.m.
***See Telegram No. 139, Sept. 14, 5 p.m.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
the May 15 terreristic theident whmn
sentenoes of four years imprisonment
eleven army cadets convicted of atte
though hearings on this case ended
years mprisonment for each offender had
the Proourator as far back as August 10, the dalay in
imposing the sentences was undoubtedly due to a em
on the part of the authorities to gauge the publio opimton
acourately. This has been fervid to say the lease, ana
the interest in the trials nationwide. While the sontenoe
imposed may appear lenient by western standards, so high
has the public feeling been in these cases that it is
stated that the authorities literally dared place no more.
The cadets sentenced waived their right to appeal and
their parents and friends expressed gratitude at the
leniency of the sentence.
The public trial of the ten naval officers involved
in the c se reached a climax on September 1l, when the Pro
curator demanded the death penalty for three of the parti
cipants, life imprisonment for three, six years in jail
for three, and three years in jail for the remaining de-
fendant. Sentences are due to be imposed on October 20.
The trial commenced on July 24 and was completed on Septem-
ber 21. In his final plea on their behalf the attorney
for the defense described these young officers as "torch-
bearers of a Showa Restoration" which would equal the Meiji
1n

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
in ita importande on the welfare of
alared that the crimes of the oused
assassination in his residence of Premier Inuw
be given special consideration in the light or
that they were motivated by loyalty to their
satisfgetion with the London Naval treaty and
ness of the financiers and the politicians who woe
ing Japan to ruin were the chief reasons offered by t
officers in defense of their actions. It is claimed that
the dissatisfaction among the young Japanese navai ieer
over the attitude of the Naval Procurator in his char
against the defendants was widespread. At least 1t was
considered serious enough for the Minister of the Navy to
issue in collaboration with Admiral Togo on September 17
instructions to the entire navy imploring the officers to.
be calm. That the Minister of the Navy deemed it neces-
sary to call upon the prestige of Admiral Togo indicates
how seriously this discontent was regarded. Added color
was given to the affair by a story which was printed in
the Tokyo NIPPON of September 8 to the effect that Inukai
son might request leniency in behalf of the assassins of
his father.
Twenty civilians charged with complicity in the terror-
istic outbreak of May 15 went on trial on September 26.
The crimes of which they are charged include murder, attempt-
ed, murcer, accessories to both murder and attempted murder,
and violation of the explosives law. Sixty-eight attorneys
for the efeuse were present at the opening of the trial
and letters and et t1ons to the number of more than 20,000
from

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
80
from residents throughout the soumtry as
Sor the defendants were filed with the doy
progress had been made in these trials by the
ber.
(c) Other Reactionary Activities.
Another sensational trial is anticipated int
when the 70 young men who were arrested near the Meli
Shrine on the night of July 1l will be required to an
to the charges of attempted arson and attempted murdor.
This group who termed themselves the "God Sent Troops are
said to have planned a new Government with a Prince of tho
Blood as Premier. To accomplish their end they are cii
to have planned to kill War Minister, Araki. It has also
been revealed by the police that the source of their funds
was one, Hikoichi Naito, the managing director of the Matsuy
Department Store. This is one of Tokyo's largest department
stores and in his capacity of managing director, Naitois
claimed to have embezzled some Yen 3,000,000 for the purpod
of this coup. It is said that he anticipated a crash on
the stock market following the assassinations and by bearish
speculations based on this advance information intended to
recoup his embezzlements.
Some estimation of the general dissatisfaction which
appears to be widespread in Japan today can be gained from
the fact that between February and June of this year in
the Prefecture of Nagano alone 600 radicals were arrested
by the police. This radical movement it is charged was
directed chiefly toward reaching the younger generation and
among those arrested were 208 primery school teachers from
the
See Despatch No. 490, August 9,1933.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
lmewspapers of Saptamber21
four old divisions were to be mho
would raise the total strength to t1 divimions
appear to be in line with present cheuvinistio
Furthermore it was known that the General Staff had
contemplating such an increase in strength for somp
However, it has since been formally announced that
port was erroneous and that no immediate inereame
templated.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
COUBSE OF LESISLATION.
(a) Ravisal of Maval Ordimance.
The OFFICIAL GAZErTE of September 27
revision of the Naval General Staff Orainange to
the Chief of the Naval General Staff the power to
take peace time tactics and to make fleet commanday
naval station commanders responsible to him in mtter
concerning strategical plans. To the layman the simi
ficance of this is not apparent, but it is actuallx
clarification of the relations existing between the su
preme Command of the Navy, the Emperor, the Chief of the
Naval General Staff, and the Minister of the Navy Depart-
ment. By the revised ordinance the Chief of the General
Staff even in peace time is in complete control of naval
tactics under the Emperor, thus removing him from his
former position of dual command which he held with the
Minister of the Navy. The reason for this change originated
in 1930 following the signing of the London Naval Treaty.
which the Naval General Staff charged was signed by the
Government despite their objections.
The statement issued by the Navy Department announcing
this revision declared: "With the above mentioned revisions,
various regulations for the routine work of the Navy De-
partment and the Naval General Staff have been revised.
"By this revision, the question of deciding naval
strength, much discussed in the past has been made very
clear, and naval tactical affairs will also be smoothly
" Details, however, as to the new
conducted.
procedure

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
83
procedwrs are omitted. Another decisiom reported.
been reached by the naval authorities results I
from dissatiraction origimating with umpepular.
ties. This latter decision will result in the dised
ing civilians Aoting Minister of the Navy during the abmeno*
from Japan of the actual officeholder. The Premier in
fiee at the time of both the Washington and the London Waval
Conferences assumed the portfolio of the Minister of the
Navy, as the latter was representing Japan at those-conferonoe
At the time this procedure brought forth a storm of protests
from the naval officers, and was again given much publicity
at the trial of the naval officers involved in the May 15
incident.
(b) Rice Control
On September 7 the Minister of Agriculture announced
that due to the surplus rice production of recent years
894.61317
and the consequent fall in price the Department had decided
to reverse its former policy of encouraging rice production.
Hitherto the Government by various plans such as the subsi-
dizing the reclamation of fields, irrigation projects, and re-
adjustments of farms have greatly increased not only the
quantity but the quality of the production. Now however
the need has arisen to curtail production, so all such pro-
jects will be discontinued. The control will be nationwide
including Taiwan and Chosen and as the first step in the
scheme the Government has decided to purchase, starting on
October 1, 350,000 koku of the new rice crop. This measure
is being adopted in order to prevent the reckless sale of
rice

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
farmers in need of ready
would have an ill affect on the rice mark
the purohase the Government will sell
rice from the Government warehouses. The
stored therein amounted on September 1 to 17,126.000
or an increase of about 2,000,000 koku over last

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.98)
til show a marked inorease.
dontinded disoussions regarding the total
budget fer 1934 1ndicate that 1t will far
redord breaking amount of Yen 2,B00.000,006. The
of War, General Araki, has suggested the issuame
Yen 1,000,000,000, worth of military bonds to derre
extraordinary military expenditures required in the
fiscal year. In making this proposal he referred to
urgency of the national defense policy. Mr. Takahashiy
the Minister of Finance, has been quoted as saying that he
appreciates the paramount importance of National Defense
even at the sacrifice of sound finance. However ho has not
yet approved all the demands of the army and navy which
alone are estimated to amount to Yen 1,380,000,000. of
this the army has requested Yen 620,000,000 and the navy
Yen 710,000,000. Yen 210,000,000 of the navy allotmont
is for carrying out the Second Replenishment Program, fer
hich the navy hopes to obtain Yen 720,000,000 during
the next four years. Yen 180,000,000 of the army al1ot-
ment is to cover the Manchurian incident.
The Department of Communications seeks an appropria-
tion of Yen 330,000,000, in order that it may embark on a
program of expanding communication facilities. This will
include the establishment of new post offices, wireless
stations, telephones, and thousands of miles of telegraph
cirouits. It is hoped that for the first year 150 post
offices will bo cnabled to handle telegrams, 371 miles
of

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.97)
Font that Japen was planming to re
This vumor, whioh is said to have originste
edmitted was probably the result of the
to London for the settlament of internatione
Mowever no private gold mas imvelved and th
ustion, which was later reported to be Yem 
was jurchased for the Government account by the
Japan. Gold shipments of this sort were frequently made
to the United States prior to the abandonment of the
standard by that country.
The Japanese Government continues to purchase gold
Yen 8.88 per momme, which is about 26% below the price in
the world market.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
(a)
According to figures released Octeber
Ministry of Finance, exports and imports throus
of September were as follows:
Exporte
(1n 1000
141,747
September 1932
181,718
Beptember 1938
937,965
January through September 1932
1,483,02
January through September 1933 1,754,066
Despite the near approach of the normal import.
the favorable balance of Japan's foreign trade-hold up
well. At the present writing it is impossible to detormine
to what degree this was due to sales made in anticipation
of bigher tariffs in various export markets.
For the first time since figures have been compiled
a favorable balance of trade has been reported for Chosen.
In the month of August and again in September exports ex-
ceeded imports by a small margin which was attributed to
the development of sales to "Manchukuo".
(b) Foreign Exchange
During September the yen developed surprising strength.
In the early part of the month the yen fell both against the
dollar and sterling, yen-sterlimg exchange registering an all-
time low on the 8th. Shortly thereafter the yen-dollar ex-
change, which had dropped to 26-1/8 started to climb and all
through the last part of the month fluctuated in the neigh-
borhood

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
28
borhood of 28. This somewhat unerpeesad pecov
tributed to renewed talk of inflation in the
the surprising continuance of the export semson
foreign trade, and to the fact that at present
pound sterling and the dollar are weak.
(c) Miscellaneous financial notes
After a long period of easy money rates the open mar
ket sale by the Bank of Japan of Y250,000,000 4% Gover
ment bonds tightened the money market considerably. Othor
factors contributing to this tendency were uncertainty 
garding conditions in the United States, pessimism regarding
the outcome of the Simla Conference, and anticipation of
another record breaking budget in Japan.
That the purchasing power of the general public has
not improved during recent months is witnessed by the slow
upward movement of retail commodity prices in comparison
with wholesale prices. Taking December 1931 prices as 100,
on August 31, 1933 the wholesale price index had reached
149.2 while the retail index lagged behind at 110.9.
The results of the 1932-1933 fiscal year have just
been a nounced. The total revenue of the Government was
Y2,045,275,568 against total expenditures of Y1,950,140,623
leaving a surplus of Y95,134,944. Since revenue from the
sale of bonds amounted to Y695,837,000 the surplus does not
indicate that the government lived within its normal income.
(a) Japan's oil problems*
The intrusion of Mr. Kojiro Matsukata into the local
894.636
gasoline market has complic ted the general problem of
Japan's oil tra e. His Soviet gasoline is being distributed
874.6343/1
at
*See Despatch No. 52:, Sept. 15, 1933

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
29
at-a retail price of 36 sen e gallon.
Muoh agai
vics of the two foreign companies, Socony Vhoun
Sun, it is reported the established Japabase co
cided to cut prices apparently to any level at wit
Matsukata chose to sell. While the public has bonefittad
greatly from the price war which has cut gasoline costa
about six sen a gallon, the effect on the financial. condi
tion of the large companies may soon be serious. So rar the
Government has been reluctant to intervene because of the
popular acclaim which has greeted Mr. Matsukate's actions,
and because he has sold to several large consumers who
are well organized to bring political pressure.
Although the government has so far taken no action,
there are signs that some decision regarding the future oil
policy of the country may soon be arrived at. The Ministry
of Commerce and Industry announced that three nat onal poli-
cies had been agreed on as fundamental. One concerns in-
tensified control of the existing industry, the second con-
cerns the development of substitute fuels, and the third
has to do with the acquisition and exploitation of new re-
sources, including a government subsidy for drilling in
North Saghalien. On September 13 the Director of the Com-
mercial Bureau of the Foreign Office informed a member of
the Embassy staff that  greater degree of control of oil
companies would very probally be instituted in the near fu-
ture. He intim ten that tis was due to the actions of Mr.
Matsukata, which, it has been inferred, may provide a wel-
come excuse for setting a price which will ensure a profit
to the Japanosc companies but cause the two foreign com-
panies

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.96)
that while he would.not ventu
companies how to mun their businesses,
place hasitate to increase their existing inve
Japan. This would seem a strong hint that the
refineries by the Rising Sun and Socany Vacum
would not be looked upon with favor by the Gaver
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERICAL INTEREST:

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.96)
in Tekyo.It wepld
donsern having as President,
publisher of the JAPAN TINES AND MAIL
member of the Japanese Foreign Servise
statiomed at the Japanese Eabassy in Panis
Preaident, the French Consul in Yokehama.
ombraces nationals of both countries.
little information is yet available about this
it is said to have resulted from the visit to
country and Manchuria of Messrs. d'Olliver and Bolmoor
alleged representatives of the Aasociatian Nationale d?
Expansion Economique of Paris.
* See Despatch No. 516, Sept. 15, 1933

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
IX. LABOR AND EMIGRATION
Within six weeks of the arrival of 
Japanese immigrants at Chamusu, Kirin Province
it is reported that forty men have left to return
owing to unfavorable climatic conditions. A leading
American buisnessman resident in Tokyo has just raturned
from an extensive trip in Manchuria and reports that ayom
in the Kwantung Leased Territory long under Japansse con
trol immigrants from Japan can not compete with the Chines
A Japanese official expressed the fear that some 20,000
recent arrivals will become a charge on the government.
In August last year the Japan-Ethiopian Association
sent a mission to Abyssinia. Remarkable but unconfirmed
news reports state that this mission has now obtained a
884.5594
lease from the Ethiopian Government of an area twice the
size of Nagasaki prefecture on which it is proposed to
NE
grow cotton and the opium poppy, a monopoly right for
the latter having been secured. The reports state further
that the Association hopes that an emigration company
will be established and estimates that 650,000 emigrants
may be despatched to Ethiopia.

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
X.MISCELLANBOUS
(a) Balboa Day
The Pan-Pacific Club of Tokyo oommemorated Balboa
September 25, with a luncheon. The Ambassador made the
principal address.*
(b) Natural calamities
The tenth anniversary of the great Kwanto earthquake
was observed with impressive memorial services in Tokyo
and Yokohama which were attended by thousands of people
who lost friends or relatives in that cataclysm.
Widely separated districts of Japan were shaken on
September 21 by an earthquale which resulted in the death
of four people. Heavy property damage was reported from
Kanazawa and other districts on the Japan Sea.
A severe typhoon swept western Japan and the lower
portion of Korea on September 4 and caused 17 deaths. 23
people were reported missing, there was much damage to
shipping, thousands of houses were flooded or destroyed,
and the Shimonoseki-Fusan service was interrupted for the
longest period on record.
(c) Changes in personnel of the Mitsui organization
Important changes were r cently announced in the per-
sonnel of the v st Mitsui organization. A newspaper report
stated that the changes were made with the avowed purpose
of aiming at the "modific tion of capitalism for the benefit
of society" and that they were frankly influenced by the May
15 incident and previous acts of terrorism. It will be re-
membered that Baron Dan, director-in-chief of the Mitsui
Gomei Kaisha, was assassinated early in 193?. However, a
member
* See Despatc: No. 530, Sept. 28, 1933

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.94)
or or the abassy staff me told
tives of the Mitsui companies that the
cessitated by the promotion of Mr. Meihin I
managing director of the Witsui holding compmay.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
DESPATCHES TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
SEPTEMBER 1955.
No
Date
Sub ject
509
Sept.
1,
Diplomatic visa report.
510
n
5,
Monthly politioal report for August.
511
n
7,
Red Cross Conference.
512
n
9,
Arrival of Vice Consul Charles A. Cooper.
513
7,
Diplomatic visa report.
514
n
12,
Pamphlets on the National Industrial Recovery Aot.
515
n
12,
Visit of Mr. Shiratori to U.S.
516
n
13,
Franco-Japanese Association for the promotion
of investment in Manchuria.
517
13,
Proposed visit of the U.S.S. HOUSTON to Yokohama.
518
n
14,
Information regarding Mr. Oscar Strome.
519
n
15,
Reaction in Japan to Cuban revolution.
520
n
15,
Naval construction and plans for the 1935
Arms Limitation Conference.
521
n
15,
Diplomatic visa report.
522
n
15,
Japan's oil problems.
523
n
16,
Complaint of Socony-Vacuum Corporation against
Manchukuo customs administration.
524
n
16,
Simla Conference.
525
n
25,
Ratification by Japan of amendments to Air
Navigation Convention.
526
n
25,
Observation of Mr. Curtis on Manchukuo.
527
n
26,
Public feeling in Japan in regard to foreign
relations.
528
n
27,
Language examination of Mr. Schuler.
529
n
27,
Smuggling of narcotics.
530
n
28,
Address made by the Ambassador.
531
n
29,
Diplomatic visa report.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
No
Date
Subjeot
532
Sept. 29,
Establishment of American Consulate at Osaka.
533
29,
Rental allowance for Mr. Laing.
534
n
29,
American-Japanese relations publioity.
535
29,
Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railmay.
536
n
29,
Soviet-Japanese relations.
537
n
30,
Further spy scares in Japan.
538
29,
Wheat and Cotton loans to China.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAMS TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING
SEPTEMBER 1953.
No
Date
Subject
135
Sept. 6, 2 p.m.
Japanese Mandated Islands.
136
n
9, 10 a.m.
Japanese delegate to Congress of Associa-
tion of Military Surgeons.
137
10, 11 a.m.
Telegram sent by the Ambassador for
Mr. Morfat.
138
8
14, 11 a.m.
Resignation of Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Count Uchida.
139
14, 5 p.m.
Appointment of Mr. Hirota as Minister
for Foreign Affairs.
140
n
15, 1l a.m. Coordination Agreement.
141
n
15, 3 p.m.
Resignation of Count Uchida and appoint-
ment of Mr. Hirota.
142
n
15, 5 p.m.
Arrest of Mr. Hughes.
143
18, 2 p.m.
Representative Tonkham's visit to
Manchukuo.
144
n
18, 4 p.m.
Initial reception of Ambassador by
new Minister for Foreign Affairs.
145
n
22, 1 p.m.
Narcotics Limitation Convention.
146
7
25, 4 p.m.
From the Commercial Attaché for Commerce.
147
n
27, 10 a.m. Wireless interference.
148
n
27, 1l a.m. Situation in Manchuria and North China.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Deoember 4, 1933.
Tokyo's monthly report for Ootober,
forwarded with its despatoh No. 580 of
November 11, l933, is very interesting and
readable, but most of it covers ground which
has already been covered by separate
despatohes and press clippings.
RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
The Foreign Minister is reported to
have decided to postpone for the time being
the sending of a good will mission to the
United States. Cortain Japanese newspapers
ettribute this decision to the unfavorable
reception given the suggestion in the United
States and intimate that Mr. Grew was
instrumental in "side-tracking" the project.
Mr. S. Yoshida, former Ambassador to
Italy, Is considered by many as most likely
to suooeed Mr. Debuchi as Ambassador to
Washington.
In discussing the possible recognition
by the United States of Soviet Russia, the
Embassy points out that American recognition
had been discounted by the Japanese for some
time.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
time. The Japanese believed that recognition
would strengthen the position of both China
and Russia in their relations with Japan, but
it is not believed that the United States is
trying to inorease the difficulty of Japan's
International position.
The Japanese criticism of the American
wheat and cotton loan to China has died down.
RELATIONS WITH CHINA.
Apparently nothing of partioular interest
has come to the attention of the Smbassy in
this regard. The movements of the Japanese
Minister to China have been followed with keen
interest, but no information has been forth-
coming as to the objects and results of his
movements.
RELATIONS WITH THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
The section of the report covering Indo-
Japanese trade discussions is apparently based
on newspaper clippings, which were ciroulated
through the Division a few days ago. At the
time of writing, the disoussions were cheoked
by inability to agree on the amount by which
the Indian tariff on Japanese cotton goods
should be reduced, the Indian quota on
imports of Japanese goods, and the quantity of
Indian raw cotton which Japan would undertake
to

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
to buy each year.
Although these figures have already come
to the notice of the Division, there are set
forth on page 10 figures indicating recent
deoreases in the quantity and value of raw
cotton bought from India by Japan, and other
figures indicating the increast in the
quantity and value of cotton bought by Japan
from the United States. Although some doubt
was expressed whether the Japanese were
carrying out a boycott of Indian raw cotton,
these figures show that the Japanese have been
carrying out a fairly effective boycott.
▲ new trade dispute has broken out
between Japan and Australia. It appears that
the Auatralian Government has increased the
customs preferential on British goods
imported into Australia. It was suggested in
Japan that Japan boycott australian wool, but
the Japanese woolen industry does not favor
the proposal, as Japanese woolen manufacturers
would suffer from the substitution of south
African and other wool for Australian wool,
and furthermore the Japanese woolen industry,
which does not export manufactured woolens to
Australia, would be made to suffer for the
purpose of benefiting other branches of
Japanese industry.
RELATIONS WITH "MANCHUKUO".
A8

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
As a step in the implementing of the
idea of a Japanese-"Manchukuo" eoonomic bloo,
it was announoed that four industries,
spinning, cement, sake and matohes are to
preempt the Manchurian market in these
commodities.
The railways in Manchuria are to be
amalgamated into one company, and it is
intimated that "the key posi tions in the new
company will be filled by retired generals of
the Japanese Army". The recently appointed
Kead of the Manchuria Telegraph and Telephone
Company is a retired Lieutenant General of the
Japanese Army.
The negotiations over the sale and
purchase of the Chinese Eastern Railway are
making no progress. Zach side is apparently
waiting for the other to bring forth new
proposals.
RELATIONS WITH SOVIET RUSSIA.
The number of new incidents involving
Japanese and Russians are decreasing and "the
entire situation appears to justify the
belief of the NICHI-NICHI that Japanese-Soviet
relations are not so bad as they are sometimes
pictured".
ECONOMIC

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 5 -
BCONOMIC AND FINANCIAL.
Japan's foreign trade for October was
somewhat less than for September but there
was an increase of 26% over the corresponding
month last year.
END
EHD/REK

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.94)
ADVISER
1933
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED BYANNOE
FRIERTMENTY: STATE
1938
DEC 12 1933
6.8-12,262
No. 580.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Monthly Report on Conditions in Japan
During the Month of October, 1933.
994
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Divia on of
Copyift
DEC 27 1933
FAR EASTRN AFT!IRS
DEC 1-1933
DIVISION OF
Department of State
ESTERN EUROPEAN APF
DEC 14 1933
In t
EASTERY EUPN FFAIRS.
0N12
circulate ; cofy
lmil
COPSENT TO
OEPARTMINI OF STATE
P.R.
O. N. I. AND M. I. D.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
HV
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Japan for the month of October, 1933.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
Report No. 85.
Copy to Legation,Peiping.
Joseph C. Grew.
11
" Consulate General,Shanghai.
1934
11
" Consulate General, Mukden.
11
" Consulate General, Harbin.
1:
" Consulate, Dairen
In triplicate to the Department.
800-Japan.
CBL:r

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
REPORT ON CONDITIONA IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH OF OCTOBER, 1933.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEX AND BUMM&RX
POLITICAL RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) Goodwill Mission to the United States
(b) United States Recognition of the Soviet. 
(c) Mr. Hirota and the Press.
3;4
(d) Nielsen's Escape.
4,5
(e) 1936 Parley.
5,6
(f) United States Cotton and Wheat Loan to
China.
6
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) China.
7,8
(b) The British Empire.
8,9,10,11
(c) "Manchukuo".
11,12,13
(d) Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway.....13,14
e) Soviet Russia.
.14,15
(f) Germany.
15,16
(g) France.
16,17
(h) Panama.
17,18
(i) Poland.
18,
(j) Afghanistan.
18,
TI:.
INTEINAL  OLITICAL AFFAIRS:
(a)
Fiv inisters' Confe ence.
19,20
(1))
Seiyukai-.inscito Coulition.
20,21
(c)
Trials of the Civilian, Military, and Naval
Asc ins
21,22,23
(u)
Conmu ism.
.23,
(e)
Controversy over the Lono on Ne val Treaty,23,24
The Army
24,25

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
(a) The Budget
(b) Rice Control
C
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) Japan's Foreign Trade.
28,£9
(b) Foreign Exchange.
29
(c) Miscellaneous Financial Notes.
29,30
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS:
Nil.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COM ERCIAL INTERESTS
(a) SOVIET GASOLINE
.81,
IX.
LABOR AND EMIGRATION.
Nil.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS:
(a) Population.
32,
(b) Diplomatic History of Japan.
32,
(c) Portuguese Spy
32,33.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
While few incidesrts have csour
or Oetober to disturb Japaneme-
factors have contributed tomands inoreasing
of friendliness between the two nations,
avowed policy of the new Minister for Forath
Hirota. He is very obviously seeking various waye
of improving the relations between the tme couitri
and has succeeded in convineing the local pross of t
fact with the result that considerable publicity was
given his idea of sending a Japanese mission of goodwill
to the United States.* In view of the preocoupation
of the United States with domestic problems Mr. Hirota
has deemed it advisable to postpone, for the present at
least, the despatching of such a mission. Certain press
organs have attributed the postponement or abandonment
of the plan to its unfavorable reception in the United
States and have intimated that the American Ambassador
in Tokyo was instrumental in side-tracking the project.
Upon his return from the United States in the early part
of Uctober Viscount Ishii is reported to have said that
in his opinion the conclusion of an arbitration treaty
with the United States would go a long way towards im-
proving the relations between that country and Japan.
on
Embassy's telegram No. 149, October 3.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
with the Departmens br St
aertain group of ofricials in Wmahing
the new Minister for Foreign Affairs to
matio negotiations with the United Btates.
tiation of his argument that if such negotiations
to meet with success they would haye to be carrhes to
Chief Executive himself, he pointed to the cotton
wheat loan which T. V. Soong obtained by such dineet no-
gotiations and the more recent example of the Prosidentis
personal handling of the matter of Soviet recognition.
is not believed that such suggestions will be taken ser
iously by the Gaimusho, where it appears to be fully undor
stood that the present is an inappropriate time for ini-
tiating treaty discussions.
In the same despatch from Washington in which he
made the above suggestion Mr. Kawakami referred to the
probable recall of Ambassador Debuchi, an event which the
local press has long forecast. Mr. Kojiro Matsukata,
former pr@sident of the Kawasaki Shipbuilding Company,
and Mr. Yosuke Matsuoka, who headed the Japanese dele-
gation, when it withdrew from the League of Nations,
have both been mentioned as Mr. Debuchi's possible suc-
Mr
cessor. However, Shigeru Yoshida, former Ambassador to
Italy, is considered by many as the most likely candidate
for the post. The local press gave considerable prominence
io a cable from Washington on Uctober 23, in which 1t was
stated

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
stated that the Department of State svidemoed no
at the recall of Mr. Debuchi since he had Iong
sidered as not representative of certain sections ot Ja
which control national policies.
(b). United States Recognition of the Soviet.
The publication in Japan of the notes exchanged
between the President and Mr. Kalinin strangely enough
was received calmly,* and the eventual recognition by the
United States of the Soviet is regarded as natural and
inevitable. The press appears to realize that the pro-
posal was prompted solely by economic motives and 1a in
no way a threat against Japan. While it is obvious to
the Japanese that such recognition would strengthen the
hand of both the Soviet and China it is not looked upon
as an attempt by the United States to augment the diffi-
culty of Japan's international position. Such would un-
doubtedly have been the view taken a few months ago by
the Japanese press and the sane outlook taken in the
present instance can only be interpreted as an indication
of the general improvement in Japanese-American relations.
(c) Mr. Hirota and the Press.
Like the press the world over it has not always been
what was said by the Japanese press which gave offence,
but the manner in which the subject was oresented. The
Minister for Foreim Affairs,appreciating this fact, has
made definite progress in remedying it, us the recent
ress
* Embarsy's telegram No. 16a, October :3 and
despatch No. 57, November, 1933.)

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
press handling of the question or the Uaited
cognition of the Soviet proves. He is also
improve his acquaintanceship with the foreign.corrt
dents, especially the Americans. Having expressed thie
wish to the Ambassudor,he was given an opportuni or
doing so in an informal manner at a small dinner which
the Ambassador gave for him on October 1l, to whic
were invited only the four leading local American news-
paper correspondents. The papers represented by those
are the NEW YORK TIMES, the NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNEthe
ASSOCIATED PRESS and the UNITED PRESS. The conversation
was completely frank and informal and nothing which was
discussed found its way into print. It is believed that
this dinner, which indicated to Mr. Hirota that in the
future he might feel free to talk frankly to these corres-
ponaents, without fear of being quoted when he did not wish
it, will prove a further contribution towards the strength-
ening of American Japanese relations.
(d) Nielsen's Escape.
The obvious relief with which the Japanese au-
393111m/
thorities r celved the news of the escape of Dr. Niels
milcon
Nielsen, of the Danish Lutheran Mission, vho had been held
captive by bundits for the last six months, was unother
ict r wt I h contributed towards the growing friendly
fer ling bet eun the tro nations. While the exact details
of how Nielsen effected his escape cre still lacking, the
report
*Embanny's telegram No. 167, Uctober 25, 196.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
report of his having done so appeared with favorable com-
ments in the papers of Uctober 26. The United States
Government's expression of appreciation* of the Japanes
assistance rendered in this connection, which was con-
veyed by the Ambassador to the Minister for Foreign ffai
was sincerely welcomed.
WE
(e) 1936 Parley.
While the naval authorities continue sporadicall
500.A1503
to air their beliefs in the necessity of a revision of the
naval treaties in 1936, less emphasis is now placed on the
increase of the United States navy being largely respon-
sible for such a policy. On October 10, Baron Wakatsuki,
President of the Minseito, at a dinner tendered him in
Nagoya by the Tokai branch of that political party, de-
fended the London Naval Treaty, which has come in for so
much abuse and denunciation since the May 15 incident. The
Baron, as head of the Japanese delegation which negotiated
the Treaty, was in  ositi n to be the first to come for-
ward to defend the unpopuler Treaty, which he claims not
only ligitened the public's financial burden, but in no
way perm nently owered J nan's ratio of naval strength,
because it purticul: rly stipulates that the ratio spe-
cified
sul in ve no  uet on the rutios in future
tr tie. His oefen: the simal for various out-
: int the Tren ty, but the general
burrts i vor on
viuunce f the subject in his
widely
,ctober 7, 195.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.97)
idely heralded address or Vctober 1e was the o
or pressure from Government officials mhp Yeat
irritation of Raval personnel.
(r) United States Cotton and Wheat Loan to 
The criticism, which was so much to the fore duri
September, of the United States Wheat and Cotton Loan
to China has died down considerably and the newspaper
only references thereto deal largely with suggestions
as to the methods of repayment of this loan. One which
has been given considerable publicity is that this shal
be in kind, chiefly tea, silk, and other native prodnets.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
On October 1l, General Chiang Imo-pis
Minister to Japan, returned to
absence of about seven months. Though at the
departure it was claimed that no special signi
should be attached thereto it was interpreted
Chinese protest against the Japanese eampaign in
His return would seem to indicate a possible improrom
in Bino-Japanese relations and coming as it did shortly
after a public statement of the Minister for Foreim Affai
Mr. Hirota, denouncing the Chinese action at a rocent
plenary session of the League of Nations as distinctly
anti-Japanese, it tended to assuage further ill feelings
between the two countries. This is fortunate since the
tendency appears to be towards conciliation. Even the
Minister of War, General Araki, the notorious sword rattler,
has recently proposed an international peace conference
to iron out Oriental difficulties and has suggested that
China be included among the other nations invited to attend.*
The JIJI of xtober 19, in an editorial, pointed out with
no intended irony, that " China should remember that even
when she cursed Japan most furiously at the last League
sessions, Japan never for a moment expressed any senti-
ment of enmity against China, because she was confident
of the eventual inevitability of a Sino-Japanese repproche-
ment
Embassy's despatch No. 571, November 2, 1933.

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
pen was seeking an akive alliane
lest " the ever sharpening Soviet-Japanese relati
lead to an armed clash". Furthermore, though
sults have yet been made public, the keenest att
was focused on the visit to Peiping of the Japanese
Minister to China which was scheduled to take plack
approximately the middle of October. Prior to his
journey north it was stated that the purpose of hts trip
was to interview Mr. Huang Fu, Chairman of the Peiping
Political Committee.
The resignation of Mr. T. V. Soong, the Chinese
Minister of Finance, caused little comment in the Japa-
nese press, though the English owmed JAPAN CHRONICLE, of
Uctober 29, remarked with some justice that his resig-
nation, due to his inability to make financial ends meet,
would seem to quell adequately any hopes which might
have been aroused in the minds of Japanese bondholders by
the promise of r. Hirota to approach the Chinese Govern-
ment in regard to the Yen 600,000,000 of o1d loans owed
them.
(b) The British Empire.
Although the daily papers give considerable space
to the Indo-J panese Conference, being held at Delhi, havin
transferred from Simla, no definite results appear to be
as

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
over the inability or the
jor.issues:
(a) The rate to which the pr
on Japapese goods shall be reduced.
(b) The quotas of Japanese piece goode whi
ill permit to be imported annually, and Indiam
which Japan will agree to purchase in return.
Regarding the first of these questions the Indien
authorities are apparently willing to reduce the daty to
about sixty per cent whereas the Japanese want it lowere
te forty per cent. A compromise can probably be effocted
here. As to the more difficult question of quotas, in
dications at the end of the month pointed to an agreement
being reached about the tenth of November. The Japanese
have, 1t is believed, agreed to accept the 400,000,000
square yard quota conaitionally upon the Indians con-
ceding various points objected to by Japan. This, the
latest reports indicate, the Indians will do. It is
believed that Japan will agree to take annually from India
not less than 1,300,000 bales of raw cotton.
It is interesting to note what an effective weapon
the Japanese boycott against Indian raw cotton has proved
during the past three months. This is well indicated by
the following figures;
Imports

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.97)
Imports of Indian Cotton to Japan
Yen
100 Kin
25,406,082
July-
555.778
18,257,014
August 391,902
3,807,329
September85,118
But India's loss has been America's gain ae is illus
trated by these figures;
Imports of American cotton to Japan.
19,777,317
July
370,506
17,483,843
August
315,033
WE
September641,278
34,636,904
In order to judge the amount of retaliation India
has thought it fit to inflict one must examine the
FLX
following figures:
Exports of cotton cloth from Japan to India.
Yen
1,000 sc.yds.
6,403,402
July
41,830
6,381,031
August
40,576
4,641,350
September
28,044
These figures woulu seem to indicate the superiority
of the Japanese position from the point of view of bar-
g ining, and it woulu seem safe to assume that the de-
Japnesesires.
The posnibilIty of nother boycott loomed in the
middle of october when the J pan Wool Industry Association
e uled the Com one lth Govuraim nt of Australia asking a
conrts v tion of its recent cetion in favor of British
tpifre, ire dy weferential to 
considerable

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
11
camsiderable degree, were lowered. Previcusto
the Winister for Foreim Affairs had cabled the mp
nese Consul General at Sydney to make a prompt
gatfon of proposed change in tariff and to report the
Japanose position to the Australian authorities. A1l
the members of the wool industry are not apparently
in favor of the boycotting of Australian wool, sinpe it woul
be themselves who would suffer. This is because the situnti
is quite different from the Japanese boycott of Indian
cotton. In the first place many difficulties. would ensue
if the Japanese wool manufacturers were forced to rely
on South African, South American and New Zealand wool.
In the second place the Australian wool market would not
suffer muchfrom a Japanese boycott since the European
manufacturers are their largest customers. And finally,
since little or no Japanese woolen goods are sold in
Australis, it would not be their own but the Japanese
silk textile exnorters' battle,that the wool manufucturers
Would be fighting. No solution had been reached in this
matter by the close of ctober and none uppeured to be in
sight.
(c) "Manchuhuo"
If absenee of "nels" inoicntes : quiet, healthy
develonment, "a nehukuo" is progr using as well as could
be expected for no inelo nts of imoortunce marred the
placi ity ol "sanchukuo"- Jupan celations during October.
On etober 1 the Special Service Department of the
Kvantung Army
mneed the irst Japan-"Manchukuo" indus-
m to voic duplication of effort
and

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
and to assure Japan a large share of the 
market. Four industries, spinning, cemont,
matches are included in the first group. This was
followed up by the announcement, on the 3Ist. of the
month, by the Kwantung Garrison authorities of a projoct
for complete reorganization of the South Manchuria
Railway. This project aims at embracing in one company
all the railways in Manchuria. It has been intimated
that the key positions in the new company will be filled
by retired Generals of the Japanese Army. In this con-
nection it is interesting to note that Shizuo Yamanouchi,
the recently appointed head of the manchuria Telegraph
and Telephone Company, is a retired Lieutenant General
of the Japanese Army.
On ctober 29 the JAPAN TIMES published a state-
ment showing that, in accordance with a plan announced by
the "Manchukuo" Foreign Office on December 14, 1932, con-
siderable progress hud been made in the paying off of
debts incurred by the old regime, which had been assumed
by the new. Origina1ly these totalled some Yen 12,000,000.
Approximately 55 of this the new regime proposed to pay
ofi in cash, the remainder in bonds. It is now announced
that the cash puyments h ve been mostly coipleted and an
orainance for the isvuance of Licuiuation Bonds to an
amount not uxe uing Yen 6,o00,Oou h s been promulg ted.
The local press lso carried stories to the effect
that  Juonnese-"M nehukuo" como ny is to be orgunized
bfore

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.94)
-.13-
before the middle of November for the purpose of
to amount to Yen 5,000,000,000. The averag ann
gold output of "Manchukuo" in the past seteral years
1t is claimed has averaged Yen 30,000,000, or double
that of Japan.
(d) Sale of the Chinese Eastern Railway.
The conference in Tokyo for the sale of the
Chinese Eastern Railway continues to languish.* The
"Manchukuo" delegates are apparently awaiting the
initiation of new proposals by the Soviet and vice
versa. The turmoil caused by the Soviet's publication
of allegedly authentic documents indicating the Japa-
nese intention of seizing the railway has to all
intents ana purposes ut: erly subsidea. ** However, it
was this incident which so successfully rang down the
curtain on the negotiations. Whether the documents
were authentic or not woula appear of little conse-
quence since there seoms no doubt that the Japanese
h ve long contemolated Just such action as was indi-
cated by them, thould the negotiations for the sale
prove unotee safu. This "guilty conscience" would
 lain th I t ta't the gre test outery in Japan at
the yiet tin in ub isning these doe ments came
Arny
artere, vher the Loudest voice ot all
vthit
t. ter or Wor, Gr r I Araki. The
on is of the oninion
Poriet
that
Lanb
h No.

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.94)
-14-
that it wed made in a sincere attempt to stave orf
soizure of the road. It is understood that the Jap
nese Foreign Office will take no further action in
regard to the publication, which at one time throatened
to cause the breaking off of relations between the two
countries. Mr. Hirota's attempts throughout the affair
are an excellent example of the acumen regarding the
Soviet character which he acquired during his Ambassador-
ship in Moscow. It was his foresight probably more than
any other factor in the case which prevented this in-
cident from assuming major proportions.
(e) Soviet Russia.
The tension which characterized Soviet-Japanese
relations earlier in Uctober,incruased as it was by
761.94
the publication, dealt with above, of the docuients
allegedly authentic, revealing Jupanese plans for seizure
of the Chinese Lastern Railway, appeared to be greatly
relieved by the end of the month.* The number of inci-
dents along the Siberian-"Manchukuo" border seem to
have declined nd the entire situation appears to
justify the belief of the ICHI-ViCHI th: t Japanese-
Soviet r t: tions  re not so baa as they are sonetimes
pictured. Be that as it aty, roorts of the military
setivity of the Soviets stil
ear trom te to time
in the Loc 1 rose. The SAkA AtvICHI or Oetober 12
carried  typical tory when it t onced that the Soviet
Aray  thoritier were coneentratiny toeir military forces
on
1mt
ydpatch
tober P0 nd
77
ovember

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.94)
-15-
on the Soviet-"Manchukuo" border and in the
Province. The Army circles also gave public expression
to their concern over the recent construction by th
Soviets of a six-engined, six thousand horsepower it
bomber, which it alleged could fly fully loaded from
Vladivostock to Tokyo and back with the greatest of
ease. The veracity of this story is questionable
though the possibility of constructing such planes 1s
not, and it is on the basis of the ordinary individual's
appreciation of this fact that the chauvinistic element
in Japan are courting public sympathy for their enor-
mous Army appropriation. When they have succeeded in
obtaining this appropriation, it is the opinion of
many, the Soviet-Japanese crisis ill disappear.
On October 31 at the official residence of the
Minister for Foreign Affairs a conference was held
attenaed by leading business men and Government officials
for the purpose of discussing informally methods of
improving Soviet-J: punese trede relations. Those
present urged upon the Minister for Foreign Affairs
the nece:rity of diplomatically improving economic
r lations ith the Poviet. mr. Hirota expressed sym-
thy witithe view inuicated but said that no action
could b. to ken until the Soviet Government hed recon-
siuereo its owt
t ltude in the recent ublication of the
falser o ont: incident.
(f)
Germeny.
The s tisfaetio hich Joan foune in th with-
Lensue of Nti ns h b n
ny
conctourably

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
16
considerably offset by the recent acticm of
Government in classifying the Japanese paople
race. Recently the Japanese Ambassador to Berais.
reports the JAPAN TImES of October 20, drew the attoit
of the German Government to the fact that there are such
phrases as "treat Jews and colored negroes and other col
ored peoples differently from other races and refuse the
mixture of such bloodwith the German race" in the new
German Regulations. The Ambassador is reported to have
pointed out that the Japanese people were most indignant
at this discrimination against them and to have added, some-
what superfluously it would seem, that his country men
were very sensitive with regard to racial matters. In an
editorial on this question the JAPAN TIMES of October 21
went so far as to state " Indeed, the racial discrimi-
nation and customs barriers constitute two potential
causes for war."
It is perhaps not mere coincidence that on October
2 a German woman was taken into custody by the Yokohama
gendarmerie on the accucetion of taking photographs of
forts at Kurih: ma. The CH GAI SHOGYO of ctober 25 which
urints te: tory st te: tht the woman was a typist in
the Cerman  nrul. t in Y kohana. R ce diserimination
not be oue cee t b reetive.
() Fraace.
Ir. Inoré Honnor: t, former French Minister of Educa-
tion unn nos e hend of the M ison Frunco-Japoneise has
tmie visit to Jnan and for the last
751:9
been
 urpo of his visit is
ison Franco-
Japonuise
