894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., December 4, 1948 - December 3, 1949 (File 1797), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.50-1797-2   Pages: 572   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-17/894.50%20Japan%2C%20Economic%20Matters.%2C%20December%204%2C%201948%20-%20December%203%2C%201949%201797-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.84)
RAE
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECÖRDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ODTHIAST ASTAN AFFATTS
1949
3793
OF S
2
3!
Action
CTION: FE
ADRGRU
INF
DE/R
L.te :
210
OFL
Actic.
ROH
USPOLAD 20
心
TRe
Hame cr
CONF DENTIE
Juto of
mailing:
S. 1949.
Directionto
68
Rec'd:
Sep 2, 12 ..
.5
GOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
50/
Secrot ary of 
6
Washtasen
-8
A-226. Septab 3 1949
349
Uhic ategran sueplemento shie Miarion.
A-215. ptmour 1, 1949, and sarli
irgrans in this series. Rsquest dia
Sri: iti m be  in isad so Loparbmezs Dor
coacona etated in A-2l c1 Joauary 29
194
1. Investigating Peesible Sale of Copper oo Setolll es:
Re itom () A  13 concsening pessible sale of Japauese toppor 
Poland, Czea moslevmkia, Hngary sad Rumania. Vattor boin cun susi
Invesligated ia sconcrne aad Scicrsifio Secties (RSs), Getonal Rrac
quartere, wreh  2 Secsion alee informed. Dre. R W. HatE omty
Chier, Ess Forelga Trade and Commerce Divisioa, stated Se tusroo, ?
to officer of t is wi ston that he had asked lecel agont   .
BARneT, fim N to bght 3 000 tono of copper s no/J ey
shipmont te Lan en ts sen nent upen Router'e ropeit cita  s
<
rogarding possirlo trers alipment this copper to foland.
C
Barnets's egont ras glecn ao oxplezatien. Hatter appeare
serious anc phir Missiee pressing ss officiale cencorsst cor
carlieet dec ein, rocenmoading thct Dopt be regusstee to  
Embaszies cs lesdon, Druusele, ene pessibly alse lhe Degus nals
complete joveetigatior et poneible trans-st ipmenss. s i
shat declsleu so reguest zuch inveetica fon follesl. s u i
PERMANÉNT REc cOY cy mus be remed to DC/R centra nes wi notation of acton taken.
ucyn

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo's A-226,
Septamber 3?.15
，2 -
2. Cor ta n  rina or Coere: / Lonal Miecson: r Sharacd
M. FrNs, Ess rector  rconanier end inance, conduct sriefieg
Sept 6 on Je 's  ol ic problas IrI Comittee on Spor surso of
Exocutivs Def r ments, oese o' Rerre ntativee, houdcd by alter B.
HUBel, omocz it om On. As impcrte Is key to Laluncing o Isren's
import-expon  mde cy L: ss, De. Fine  eferred to reactivet o o
Japan's esrch rr: ne es mesis  c / eia invisiblo etpert: and
permit Jupaness trsdere t, conpet: ns is adruntageouely io vurid
markets Pouts I ut by clonal Hsrc I : T. MllLn. Chiof, C.vil Trens.
portatien Secvic tlat upan now he. saly four ships capat.o or
being pinced on ip see rune n ren (asbly shert sime une bous 
"no clans' shans xhicn cn be Pitted ut to comply wits ue e
registratlon r 1:n ont: for in o Ass" ratings withn ato it two
yeara. Cougruoen , prt sei or tir I, were rather pon-com too. 
garding quest on  Japenese ehippt However, nozt dey  presenlu
tive Buber quosea ia Nieron rimes  affect that tremundeu  ot cetion
wouid be raiset l Jongreus sore So P so propose permisticg Jepanes
soon to cxpaut trsir wor hens twarin/ for doop soa serr ces.
3. Ster ind Area Toude Telke Roopem: Aftor lull of  vore?
wseks, Storlits Area trade balke I ave  gein come to lite zatrvo
appears to be he. Soap B commit ed w th some dazree of mre
to purchcses  eroximatoly ca O mil ton trom steclins  a 
clusive of fooc-ufra aod pet clom i: bo procired fres ss -
appropriated lunds Latter twt itens may pueh totel promipmins.
up to around 175 million. In 4dditic, some thought io ba ng 
to possibilit, or  aporting 'a xconler itema, sich as rutorr, vpo
understanting  hat sterling u va will compensate ia purolaa  ci
commodities p'rer than cotton textiles, which reguire dolla .
penditurer  gcling Aron  ocuramant, on other hand, will not o
that large,  vlew of hosvy usrry-over of undeliverad purs ases
(estimatad at uround 55 n1 ton) end unliquidated 3A sts lin
belance, for x ich Sterliag Ares w ahos to pey in goods. s osi
tion of latter balance wil: detormine ultimato leval of pur husoe
from Japan. Lisagroanent over position of sntropot srade, psrtiul-
larly with regard o textllon, contlnues, with ScaP Sevori  
reduction. if not camoleve elinination, of that trade.
4 Froiglt Confore ce Hserinua Postponed Ope e: Rn
made to item (1), -215. p. 2, 1949, concerau  sh  r
Conference hearings schoduled o be bela Leforo r Ta m avor
on Sent a Acog iaeion  vo u ter r c rior
CONFTLHYTTAL.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.70)
Tekye's 4-220
September 8, 1
oSopt
wath r   
n06 sr1p.ng
Comsies on
con
Auguet S
Uador Socrst
collaws
stios 
Laster  C  i  ct. el ropre
tatve
 ste retsht Coafererce po orteily
ur  t  st e tere be post
po  n des n s
Yare nar lized r con
fer  
tiu
fromewo.
fo Fax r o  d resedent ee
sunly cl 
r  v 
vo frereesloo is goel 
ye'is Go
mesioncou   r o t 
instibu hisl ora  portey
respoas lt o    ine c depeo ia ha
Japaneue osoa
osto
s  ye s  .sis  b
t aw
Conference here uo post o onel  cusoose or lrlgetio uuder wy
in s ls withoue bsis  uet et ly, aet opose s sov
montho ago by ae, Gn   r Ut, hie, s   t
in cur despatch  38  ve  l9. on a b
hoewe
1

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo' A- 226,
September 8, 1..
- 4 -
74 adi, 57  2, £8 ra, 9
Philipptrsia  Srtas t 17
Amoriceun and . in lk ly to sureas
appeait.
yTL
irede pr.....oc.
travlrecnt
us in preur 1 Nouehelen, it i pear c t1
Japanese xpcr u be alize oly xitha   
ingly larger xlipation in taoir foraige tre
ofrices and tta  eig a itabli hed abroad, and: .
ping serving ree s wel es vimerouu amallor 
whiah ia prower cuy prov: dsd ia tte negrogate r i
axport outlet
6. Rovir  cre of Tre ie Prooedurva Stalled. 
return to priiste inmpoxte and c. i.f. price quosar: in. c
axports are st l:ed in hi:her acholous of Fs. I ti up:
presa roporte cstebiiaumset of c.i.f. peoceaurs .. i.v.
officiala unaito agres or currency le which pemnt 
chould be made, triiishrtelly pre ri cu
contract, Ameo currency o fles uder shich e
Dutoh currency a captabl. to 4 (in cffocs, col urs).
Comtrol Diviajcn apparentty corsideriug resher corplic: .
sise betwcen curieacy of antract and curreacy or cerr,..
With regard to private in orte, barrier still appuars   pii
of anforoing cu renoy regulat ions while limitins purbor c  tis!
pating Japanen: agencies
7. Japalesn Propose Cosmiesion to AMminiuter Trave. o!  pch.
miolans: Examplo of mamner in which Japanese Gov, clutten  
sdministrativo procodures with uanecossary aganctos provicoa
recently by Japaneso suggoation that pecial com: esios, with p.
sentatives of wumerous minintries, bo sot up to soreen ajplicatfc
by Japamese techniclams to travel abroad. While isser-mini try
policy determiniu: hody would no doubt be helpful sith roi,c ar to
antire problan of Japanece sravel abroad (inoluding bu isn
operating under axchange-rotantioa progran, stud ats, t .
admimistrative type of bcdy suggosted would omly neve i.
slowing dowm screaning process and of diasipatir; resp:
CONFIDEITLAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.72)
Tok/o
septem
500
OA

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.86)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
4
894.50/9-1349
ed Stat: Fclitical Adviser
G
Juun
r17,1949
D
DelR
: 9
ACTION
Lile
7
DCR
PCS
OLI
ITP
OF
TRC
COM
AGRI
FRF
 oor to al coples of
nsl Srorting
rector
Sc
: eral
of Tuter-
894.50/9-1349
York
X
rt be
breaut
A
t.on
tarad
olnt .
énable
J.
() Tunan must
sdourle
crt. () ven cut ncreaee ner
s productior. (3) existing restrictive
trade ba
rt     rdcts by
foreig nut
(4) bled
again to
or e (5) Japan must
develep he"
ltrist t  rese foreig
investme.t
pourrent f foce and raw
materials 
pi ber anfuctured export
prou ts .
rearots, and (7) Japal and
e 1
or t utlt'e the vuat
developed r   trtul cty of the siatis rinland.
The comments
CS/H
UNCLASSIFTED
JUL141952
FILD

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo s Despatch No. 631
September 13 1949
The correats male y the other thpee speekers were large repe-
titieme  pert of t sevm pt mase y Dr Fine r. Emeny
hox
provi e.  epetie eeaten  lie penarks regerding
utili f tl 
Re 241
  I   the
le  the  ent trat only sixteen
poroent cf Japneer poul so avarluble for esltivation
peyre ore maalr peletively pecee areae or uplards ying
Pullow to wuee cle devastatiny umbee gress has not been
eradicated It ray be true thet rice culture is reaching
sto li it but there is clear evilence that preduction
on a larevr peal of t ea crer ef hicher mutrition
valr nould pecree still furtiler the margir between feed
su  lies wd mouths to feed Is it not true nereover.
that mcuatain e:ies une platesus of these exquisite isles
are atill net teing properly explcited? The Swiss could
teash the Japanese muc. about mountain fed cattle. re
ferestatiea aa proper utilizatien of waterpower resources
Re ecomomy co properly eet  weehect aaeguate trano.
port and te lack of roate n pural
re contioues to
It is boleee.  Dr Pr a uerreed t post rpertan
ar of self.
With respect to Ir. Ehery s observaticn quoted above it is
believed shat ho bus toupeed us on a point n need cs Durther investi-
cation as possibly vfforim: a meame ror smere ses foodstuffs preauction
In this sonnectrm refereme swuld bo made te the extreme reluctance
of Japanese to develop tne potentially lerge agricultural resources of
Hokkaido, which reportedly coulu ebsorb several more million Japanese
settlers without undue difficulty provided they overcome their dislike
for the island's cold clinate
1/ Copy of speech by Dr. Fine;
2/ Copy of speecn by Kr. Kodaki;
3/ Copy of speech by Mr. Satoh;
4/ Copy of speech by r. Eneny.
Parchment mat to the Department
Copies to: American Embassy, London
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
500
CHBoehringer:pf
UNCLASSIFIED
8

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 631
dated September 13, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Copies
UNCLASSIFIED
of Four Speeches on Subject of "How
Can Japan Become a Self-Supporting
Nation?"
(COFY)
"HOW CAN JAPAN BECOLE A SELF-SUPPORTING-NATION?"
Speech of DR. SHERWOOD M.. FIE, Director, Economics and
Planning, Economic and Scientific Section, on "America's Town
Meeting of the Air" from the Ernie Pyle Theater in Tokyo, Japan,
on August 30. 1949, to be broadcast over WJZ and the Americen
Broadcasting Company Network on September 27, 1949, ε:30 - 9:30
EST。
Mr Denny, we have all known for some time the tremendous
cost of modern warfare. However, it has only been since l945
that the United States has learned how costly the occupation of
a defeated, aggressor nation can be The United States in its
endeavor to democratize and aic Japan has been appropriating almost
500 million dollars annually for the last tvo years. The object
has been to rehabilitate that devastated nation and prevent disease
and social unrest among her population How long will the United
States sustain this burden? And, what can be done to speed up the
realization of a healthy, self-su:porting, democratic Japan?
You may be somewhat nystified as to how a nation which so
short a time ago was the dominant political, economic and military
power in the Far East should suddenly have been transformed into
its present dependence upon American assistance. How could Japan
have been so swiftly altered from its prewar position to its present
distressea economic condition? Here ere some of the facts I hope
you will keep in mind throughout tonight's discussion. First is
the destruction wrought by the war and the loss of her extensive
Asiatic empire. In additicn Japan has lost her merchant marine and
her assured sources of imports of cheap food and industrial raw
materials as well as a virtually assured market for her export
manufactures. Unhappily coinciding with the foregoing has been
nylon's displacement, in large pert, of silk. This was Japan's
chief prewar export and prime source of dollars with which to buy
American goods. Eighty per cent of Japan's cotton textile industry
was scrapped for metal and consumed by the war machine. Foreign
competition for the Asiatic market, moreover, is far keener than
was the case in the prewar period.
Fundamental
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 631,
September 13, 1949.
- 2 -
Fundamental to Japan's economic problem is her small size and
exceedingly poor natural resources. Japan's eighty-one million
population, swollen from her 194l population of 72 million, 1s
crowded into a territory smaller than the State of California. With
only 16 per cent of her area fit for cultivation, she is burdened
with the most sericus population problen of any nation in the world.
Imagine what it means to this smallarea to sustain an increase of
1, 300,000 persons annually. Each successive year will witness a
growing gulf between her harvests and the needs of her growing
numbers
Before the war Japan was known as the "workshop of the Orient".
She was the unchallenged industrlal leader in the Far East and
managea by her export of manufactured products end earnings of her
merchant fleet and other services to earn the income to pay for
her necessary imports. These were purchesed predominantly from her
neighbors and consisted of food, cotton, fertilizer, petroleum, iron
ore, metals, wood pulp and other industrial raw materials. Japan
continues to be the mcst econonical source of cheap manufactured
goods for her Oriental neighbors though she is increasingly chal-
lenged by the competition of England and other countries.
Currently, Japan's exports are running at an annual rate of
some 500 nillion dollars while her imports, thanks to American aid,
are running at a rate of about go0 million dollars. The problem
consists of bridging this gap of 400 million dollars.
The Communist control of China, Menchuria and North Korea has
profoundly affected Japan's trade prospects. Total economic activi-
ty iu Asia, moreover, has not yet approached prewar levels. Japan
has a vital stake in overall Oriental economic activity. Before
the war, Japan secured over 55 per cent of all her inports from
Asie. Currently, she is getting well under 20 per cent from her
Asiatic neighbors. This unbulanced condition must be corrected.
A prosperous, self-supporting and democretic Japan will be most
difficult of realization in a poverty stricken, Conmunist dominated
Orient
What actions then are necessary to enable Japan to become
self-supporting? First, Japan must redouble her efforts to in-
crease her exports through more intensive sales promotion, improve-
ment of products, and streamlining of production technics.
Second, Jupan must increase the output of her farms, her mines,
the fishing cutch of her neighboring seas and such other natural
resources as she possesses, through adoption of more modern and
efficient practices.
Third,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 631,
September 13, 1949.
- 3 -
Third, existing restrictive trade barriers and discriminatory
treatment of Japah's products by foreign netions should be termina-
ted
Fourth, Japan must be enabled to carry more of her imports
and exports on her own vessels thereby saving very substantial
shipping costs.
Fifth, Jupan must develop her potentially sizable tourist
trade and encourage foreign investment to bring in foreign exchange.
Sixth, Japan must shift her procurement of food and raw materials
to tnose areas which require her manufactured export products and
can supply her import requirements.
Seventh, Japan and her Asiatic neighbors, with the aid of expert
technological assistance, must work together to utilize the vast
undeveloped rescurces and industrial capacity of the Asiatic main-
land. Thrcugh increased output of food and raw materials, Japan's
neighbors will acguire the means to pay for such needed manufactured
goods as Japan is best situated to furnish.
Every American has a vital interest in a seif-supporting Japan
which is essential to a peaceful, den.ocratic Asia, free of Com-
munist domination
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure io. 2 to Despatch No. 631
dated September 13, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan. Tokyo, on the subject "Copies
UNCLASSIFIED
of Four Speeches on Subject of "How
Jan Japan Become a Self-Supporting
tion?"
(COPY)
"HOW CAN JAPAI BHCOLE A SELF-SUPTORTHNG NATION?"
Speach of MR. AKIA KODAKI. Administrator-General of Inter-
national Trude, on "Anerica's Town Leeting of the Air" from the
Ernie Pyl• Theater in Tokyo Jupan on August 30. 1949, to be
broadcast over WJZ and the American Eroudcastiug Company network
on Septemter 7 1949. 8:30 . 9:30 EST
May I first express to the listeners in the United Stutes the
deep appreciation of the Japanese people for all that the United
States has done for us during the past four years?
Anyone with the least sense of self-respect strongly desires
to lead a self-supporting existence, rether thar being uependent
upon his friends Such is the fecling now enterteined by the ma-
jority of the people in this counrty
However, Dr Fine haa just told you a urber of difriculties
we have to face in the way of our self-suy orting eccncy
Ir.
spite of all. can we ever become selr-sup orting?
I should say "Yes " Then. now? I buse my conviction upon
the fect that we have vust resoorees of man-power, man-power with
tio desire to work Besides, I van toll you that there is no other
country in Asia which has so may skilled laborers in proportion
to the population.
Therefore our self-suyporting economy nust be based on the
utaost utilization of cur man-power. Only through the sales of
industrial products can Japan secure the means of payment for im-
porting focdstuffs and raw materials so urgently needea in Japan.
We have lready nace considerable progress in this line. We
have signed trude agreements of varicus fcrns with nearly 20 coun-
tries, including Greut britain, France, Sweden, Australia, Inuia
and other British Jominions, Dutch East Indies, Korea ana several
South Americun countries. How, take, for example, figures of our
exports.
In 1946, our exports amountea only to a little over 100
million
This increused to $l70 million in 1947 and 260 million
in 1948
Furthermore, the figure for the first half of this year
has risen
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 631,
September 13, 1949.
has risen well over that for the whole of last year. These figures,
I believe, will indicate the fact that both the Government and the
people of Japan are firmly deternined to realize a self-supporting
economy, and are actually doing all that they can towards that end.
There are nany things yet to be acomplished: first, wider
participation of our merchant marine in internaticual trade; then,
the conclusion of reciprocal traue greements with adaitional
countries; the gredual diversion of our imports from the estern
Worlu to the Far East; the recover: of our best markets in prewar
days wnich ure now almost lost to us, such as Communist dominated
Manchuria, North Korea and China; more foreign investment and more
intensified tourist industry in Japan, the participation in the
International Trade Organization ana in the International Monetary
Fund, etc All these things are of critical importance to us, but
none of these can be achieved by our unaided efforts.
Therefore, we do hope that the world vd il sympathize with our
legitimate aspiration for a self-supporting economy. Let us nope
that the world will permit us to embark upon shess prograis and
allow us to have a chance for fair ccmpetition in foreign coun-
tries - each country admitting cur products on a non-diserininating
basis and our businessmen on ecual terns ith otners. On our part,
we will do our best to res, ond to their good will in every possible
way and to refrain fren cennitting any aet which may be considered
as unfair competition or aumping.
Only in this fashion cun Jupan become a self-suyporting und
consequently truly democretic and peuce-loving nation.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 61
dated September 13, 1949 from the
United States Pclitical Adviser for
Japun, Tokyo, on the subject "Copies
UNCLASSIFIED
of Four Speeches on Subject of "How
Can Jepan Eecome a Self-Supporting
Natlon?"
(COPY)
"HOW JA. JAA
"IO.?"
Speech of AR. KIICnTRO SATOi. President or the Leikoku Bank,
Lte., on "America's Town Keeting cf the Air" fror the Ernis Pyle
Theater in Tokyo, Japan, on August 30, 1949, to be broadcast cver
WJZ and the American Broadcasting Company Network on September 27,
1949, 8:30-9:30 EST
Dr, Fine has explained very vividly the econonic plight which
Japan is now facing, especially the gloomy picture of our population
crowded in a devastated area I think we must first of all do the
utmost within our power to settle tnis alarming increase of popula-
tion adopting, among other things, birth-control particularly in
rural districts. With our populatiou increase, it is almost im-
possible to make out a plan to overtake the consequent increase of
national requiraments even for a bare subsistence level. If the in-
creasing tendency of our population could be arrested somehow, I
should think that a half of the problem was solved.
As Mr. Kodaki pointed out, I am fully in accord with him in
regard to our merchant marine to be robuilt and the diversified
trade agreements with additional countries of trading possibility.
I would add that Japan needs to enlarge her fishing area to increase
the supply of food-stuffs. particularly that of protein which is
very short.
It is unfcrtunately true that the efficiesej of our labor has
declined somewhat as compared with the prewur stuidard. This was
inevitable due to the depressed stu dard of livi g which followed
the War Although ür Koaaki spoke of our maln-power es our assets,
it was only recently that peoyle recovered from vacuum-minded
state and came to think of becoming self-supporting Noreover,
labor is liable to become susceptible to cormunistic propaganda.
While this movement is now being combatted by the predominantly
democratic lemdership in the labor movement, there is no more
effective solution than giving them a higher standard of living.
This can be accomplished by increasing foreign trade and conseguemt-
Ly employment.
However, as Dr. Fine has pointed out, our foreign trede sheme
highly unfavorable balance with the Taited states. Japen will be
obliged to

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.78)
Enclosure No. 3
to Pokyc's Despatch No
September 13. 1949
obliged to reduce sharly surel   er p Untted States waless
shat natice is rep
ur countryI
wderstn tt a  
fre and other 
materials s aceurulet.
but we, it vapan,
sernet  e
is on cacal w flingrees on the
part er the peeple
The  cunt
of  s
l be tut a fretrn of the
tol    
and
Po et.
L ray il
tatee en
q  
the
werle Merke
us ur         being
ee w he       t   for
in U.. das
    u
cu     
s
fron      
fore.  
recies
for e otf
purehase  s
thma orpcrtuity
support rine is 
the
War
UNCLASSFFIED

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure No 4 to Despatch No. 651
dated September 13, 1949 from the
Unitei states Political Adviser for
Juy., Tokyo. o the subject "Copies
of cur Speeches on Subject of "How
BHCLASSLFED
C -pan Dsoare a Self Supporting
()
Spec  .   Pres  e Poce Pelicy
   Yor 
Arericeetir of the
A   e        30
Dr Fne e Mouk wu r Satet bove alreaey soad the
maor          slf
support. Basically they are the sure. thourh infinitely sore
aggravated, as the conditions which save rise to attempts at
drastic solution thrcugh brutal mllitary alctatership, territorial
aggression une war in the years preceding Junanose dereat Modern
war. however, does net cure but vastly cowclicates cireumstances
from which it arises uhs tousy we tine s a result the  have not"
powers or the pre-war erm, Ital, torrmny and Japan joinea to the
"have not" pecples of the eurtn
Reduceu te sinplest terr te Jucnese rotlen arises fron
too many people seeking survival on toc little land. But this
situation has now beecme so permuaentiy sericus thct only by the
most intensive errerts un. te wisest lanning can a solution be
found. In this regurd my colleagues have vireaay mentioned the
need of in reved ugriculture, revival or fisheries, exp nsion of
industrial prouuction, tourist trade, saipping snd birth control.
They have especielly enphasizet ths necessity for greatly increased
sale of prouuets abroad in both the dollar und nen-dcllar areas as
the only means or prccurenent cf surficient exchange with which to
purchase rccas and essentiel ruw nateriels This is a land whose
greatest asset is skil e. und seni-skilled manpower, a ranpower
which must be utilizea to the utnost in peuceful pursuits if it
is to avoid resort again to aggressive intants, The Japanese are
no more iamune fror resert te extremes, ineluding the false appeals
of Soviet Communien, then any cther discontented underprivileged
peoples Eut they have in large measure repudiated war us the in-
strument of policy un: they stand today repared to concentrate
their energies u o. the peacerul uclution of their difficulties if
given a chance
Does not
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 631,
September 13, 1949.
-2
Does not logic demand, therefore, an appeal to every legiti-
mate element of recovery, no matter how small. Americans, adjusted
to bigness are frequently inclined to igrore the little things,
which can be so important in the lives of the Jupanese.
With regara to agriculture, I cannot accept the implication
involved in the statement that only sixteen percent of Japanese
soil is available for cultivation Thero are still relatively
large areas of uplands lying fallow because the devastating bamboo
grass has not been eradicated. It may be true that rice culture
is reaching its limit, but there is clear evidence that production
on a larger scale of those grains of higher nutrition value could
reduce still further the margin between food supplies and mouths
to feed. Is it not true, moreover, that mountain sides and
plateaus of these exquisite isles ere still not being properly ex-
ploited? The Swiss could teach the Japanese much about mountain
fed cattle, reforestation and proper utilization of waterpower
resources. No economy can properly function without adequate trans-
port, and the lack of roads in rural areas continues to hamper the
distribution of products
Another item of real importunce relates to the brain power of
this land The purge of Japanese of nigh war position by all in-
clusive categories, resulted in the inclusion of many victims of
undoubted integrity who are now deprived of giving their great
talents to the soluticn of their nution's peace time problems.
Military necessity may have demanded drastic measures, but the
time has come in my judzment, to hasten the process of unpurging
those who have been undeserving of such penalties.
But in its final analysis it is evident that no permenent
solution of the Japanese problem of self support cen be had without
relating it closely to the overall problem of the Far East. Just
as Germany belongs to Europe so does Japan belong to Asie. But
unless and until Americe cen develop a Far East policy which com-
prehends not only basic issues of the aree, but the inter-relation-
ship of things, the Japanese probles. itself cannot be solved. In
this respect it may very well be that the Japanese themselves, who
know this area of the world much better than we. can be of help if
their help is earnestly sought.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
file 201Q
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECDRDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION
ORTHEAST ASIA
2
SEP: 1949
3789
B.4
ACTION: FE
INPO
AIRGRAM
DC/R
Action Taken
E
ITP
OFD
FROW:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
T
894.50/9-
TRC
CONF IDEITIAL
Tats of
0I.I
meiling:
Soptember 15, 1949
Rec'd:
Sept. 22, 1949 3:52 p.1
POR DEPARRENT USE ONLY
Socretary of state,
5
Fashington.
49
A-233, Cepvembor 15, 1949.
(Thie sirgran supplementa this Mission:s
A-226. Heptember 8, 1949, end earlier
airgran n shis seri s. koquest diotri-
bution bo iaitnd to Depurament for reu-
sons cu tnd sn -21 or January 28, 1949.)
1 Locision heachey e Have Conper Sales Iavsctigated: Referonce
made to iten (1). -se, cnd eurlier reports ccaeerning possible rans-
shiprents of Juparose copgor From London and Antwerp to Poland,
Czechoelovakie, lunguy una Rumania. Question takon up by ofricials
of Econcmio and sciensiric section (Ess), General Acadquorters, with
Gon section, and conelusion suached that matter, which yet only in
allegution stage. ahoulc bs investi gated by Embassios at London and
Brussela, and possibly elso The Hague. ls non compiling debuils which
mill bo transmiteod by this ission to Dept for reforence to poste
eitod. meanwhilo, it may bo noted shut Lss han decided, bocause of
possibility those allegusions may be proved groundless, that it cannos
withold action on bids placed by traders hero on 5, 5oo mosrle tens of
copper now up for export salo.
2. Lespetan on Freight Conforence Sunmons under Preparation: A
lavitation of ofricer of this Mission, r. Bruce Afrofison, Americen
Lawyer retained by Fur Mastern Freight Conforence (see item (4), A-R26)
in connection with invest Igetion conducted by Mair Trade Cosmicalon.
called es  isslon on sops is end supplied copicu of dcousonsn cubmiteed
ag So and sept 6 by him ac Sorndscien. These sow being copied in
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R centrai Wes with notation of action taken.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo'o à-233,
Septomber 15, 1949.
-2-
cornecticn wish despatch under preperation. According to Aitchison,
positicn taken first by Conference wus to deny charges mado by Com-
viusion 1n 1ts criginal sumons of Apr1l 16, 1949. On Seps 6, hoxevar,
Conferance changed tactics uy filing new answer to summone, and pre-
seating copy of new Confareuce contract along linea contracts used in
U.s. and peri itted by U.s. Haritime Comission. During convorsat'on
between officer and itchicon, no indication given by lctter thut ho
wes advising Conference to urge that hearings be postponed pending
outcone of litigution in U.S. against shipping conferenco.
5 Logan to Adviae Es oa Trade Probloms: As direct cutcomo of
visit nere of Unuer Secretucy of Army Tracy S. VooRhkes, Mr. Willim
J. LOGn, Director Generel of Joint Export-Import Ageney for Trizono
Germany, scheduled arrive Tokyo in rew daye to givo ndvice on methods
used in Trizonie to maximize foreign trede. At weekly Ess stafr
meeting sept L, Major General W. F. MAR UAT, Chier. ESS, stated that
Logan would bs conpietely independent of speoial trade misuion being
sent cut fror cuhingtou to study current trade procedures und policics
with view to makins secornentationd for sinmplirication and iprovenozt.
Freilo and Loe Son snce Trade Invoatigation hork: Mr. Ormond
Frallh, Chier, Industry Livision, Far lastern Section, Civil Arfeira
Livieion, Lept of rmy. und Mr. Michael IEE, Chier, For Eastern Branch,
Office of inter ational Truce, bept of Comenorce, urtived Tokyo Sept 12
as foreruinors of epecial iter-dopartmontal trade misaion to me
thorough study of CaP's trade procedures und policies. Prolimi .ary
work in this regord being dono during past four weeks by Dr. W. B.
T.Yiox, Dean of Cluremont College, Claramont, Calir. (sce ltan 1,
a-z0s) Avong cthere scheculed to arrive hero within noxt fos doya 1s
Mr. John J. JurGE, long-time houu of San Frencicco Rogionul Orricc o
Dopt of Cor merce, constdered to be excentionully goud cholce owing to
his intinate khouledge of problems encountered by Paoifie Const
businesamen attespting to do businoss with o n.
3. Picture wark for Trade with Storlins Aroe. Storling area
trade negctiatore give svery evidonce of vhistling in dark. while
es, ressing optimisn ut ossibilities of expaluing trado once current
"trough" is puassed, they are unable to puggest concroto possibilities
for increased sales to Japan, and admit thut as result prospective
purchuses fron Jupan for belance of current fiscal your uro "pori-
lously neer nothing." Taking relatively optimistic figure of  160
million for Jucanese purchases (which is scmewhat above present
CO.FTOLNIT.D

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.84)
2
Tokyo's A-233,
cepten.ber 1b, 1949.
-3 -
astimutes of essuatia proauets avallablo ia sterling, aroa) following
must be suutrected in urrivins at probaole aterling aron purchages:
about 40 millicn cre it telace :usertly held by sCap; out 13
milllon cerry-over a surchasec y stecling area an-partlcipants in
Trade arren en.en, un. pliversa as c? Jaly 1; estinated t million
differarce botwecu cus y-ove: :cr rticipants as of July 1, 1949, end
estimuted carry-over 1 r op as ur July 1, 1950; und pozoible $5
million pmyment for in isiil, ir. orts from Jupan. Bulurze of about
74 millico ramulcs; a uce  ts0 mili'on figuro optiniatic to begin
with, es: sincs aterlin sre. contracted for purchesos aitimated at
 millic during ugu potential.urcheses for renulador  
do ludeed a proach zero. c le  I egotlatore coatique to nsk for
Foodsturra, nitrates, eo ton. und ptlr plew, sterling areu offers
rubber und iro. ore sot. ot vich t presently stock-pilod in Japan
 consicerab expea  Gevt. Tor rar for crossing "orouga" would
uppour to call for more r  ation trm thus for evideaeed.
6 rave  Tool  Co plereic) ceprescatatiyas Stelled
by Laplonstic a rencius  oepoctive truvel or larao nunvers of
apanese co"mere al v por ar ives oparating under foroiga-exchange
potention pros , e c esser munbera of teclunicians, boing hold up
 darfraeltios i vloarances cspccially in ca  of pations
ut preset notely tur en utin mer..cm counsrios) wi ucut rep
sentuty on in Japao a  er aue, up has acoptod petio o
wirng atreety so toagk k; ore fermal preesu ees with sogard so
ratin mericn re erte iy reo e mininul or shreo montlho. vith v
to solution or this rot en, is weil us o expansion of trade, Pss hao
orarted celeeras to sll cati s rican  vto (with oxceptica of Brril,
waich has already taken nit sttve) sus st ng that saey asnd tr uo or
iplcmutie missione to J pr
ith reg. d to travel ebrond of tech-
micians it should he poilten out bout itean 8 (z), our A-21s of Sept 1.
I je. does not mean thut cxei nga crouit eurned from oxports so open-
tectout countrie. cust be uo for travel in those covntrios; eppli-
vat rons for retentlon of eicme in fom or collaro or storling will
be cousinered.
7. IrI showe sime ef Hecalcitranco: Lower schelore of Piniotry
of storuutioali Trade ane nduatry (rtr) ere reportedly ahowing an
ancasing vunillincmess to vut upo tho sggestions of thoir coenter-
pares in lis. iese seleront  s otriciuls state thut mtch apparent
ocalcitruce a to oaptsinu by lormal bureaucratze alonnese, vhilo
synics suspees vet rt ao petim upon orders Pron above, ds hoving
veo conct t   l t ao posities to insis upen
 trter doul (mpthe

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.88)
2
Tokyo's .v-233
etamtor j. 19.9.
-4-
textiles), for iastance, var iguorea by MITI for sevorel veoks, then
rejected cn she prounus tihat it wes not in keoping with curront policy
(ultnoug current tolicy apecifically notes barter transactions en an
exception to principle of public bidding).
15.
uspectei thut Runcred Abol1tion of Floor Pricos Hauming
lxpcrts
Rumors of the irminont ebolitiou of floor pricen continue to
eain lomentum. with resmit shst cs foroten trade officiuls are be-
co.is ulurmed ut possibl. rrects on exports. Believod that mumors
are sasou on leaks sither i ts or  ITi, and thut buyers uro es
resllt delaying purchee s. o suituble altornative ror ficor-prico
-yatan has yet beon disoovared, ulthough HItI ia known to Fevor rature
to the old susccietion yeser. Moauwhile, circumventien of floor-
prices by rebossa to ex vrlers or foreign buyere has bocome so vide-
spreud tost : Iti hae seon rit to take gemi-orficial notico of it,
und ws essured press that ccuiter-neusures are undor consilarution.
SEBALD
160

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
aGDe/R
RAF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
4957
AD, Tokjo
894.50/9-2249
12
17
DCh
SAE
SUrY
1243.0enb3r
EUR
E
t riasicn's
TPT
-232
9, nd sarlier
J:D
r
iu serres.  quest diatri-
UNA
but1''rcort rorre
 28,1949.)
2 NcoRes)Reforense made to it(3),
-2ls. Sep,.   ac. Accordin to formor member
f chinese ir i uo, caief of Chinese Reparations
end Rostitation belaga ion, ccently made naive atteupt to obtain
bout 25 pounds f "si: l:s of restituted opium. Informant stated
office of Jivil. por ustodlan aspertedly told Wu that, being
familiar with G procciLas ovorning handling of restituted nar
cotics, he ahoul h ve moim sutter than to make such requost.
nformant indlcated iu probo ly toying with idea of solling opium
in local blacs market. lthougn informant stated that restituted
CASED
cpium and morohine closol: uardod so that illicit sales impoesible,
M
cuestion baing discussed vit! Office of Civil Property Custodian as
to eventual dispouition these narcotics reportedly valued about
400,000.
2. UP Correapondon- vlennas Story en Copp ir Salos. Hr. Pster
IA1suH, 1dcal Urited Pros- corres ondent, on Sept. 21 rcleased
trticle regarding possibility that sules of Japanese copper to coun-
9
(rios beiinu Iror Curtain may have bion effected by means of trare
hipments from 'cndon and Antierp. 10 indicated ixem (1). -233,
Iconamio and ciontific Sagtion (sy) foliowinn conaultatior with
te have

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.65)
P
Sepember 2
…2
Lndobly
els e  e  
e
etort 
r
et   d ave p 
 fer rge
   w

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.74)
Tokyo's A-243.
September 22, 1949.
the vapan o ee Scpee vhieh stlt ur de dard pon for reor
canisation.  soureee i cicate the lic: cr to sw applicants
way con wn   ar t   compy wh
rue that
Iutchinson   dea dons howeve
be  ey reeev
6
  al  dinirt y
 sn od trate
of e tber
ssdue play
e sebe
dwer
ore
rti g with
Pore   os ys 
o. ástruel e
)dr
starbut la
nocord
terrational
P0ssh
u of
 ce eardter
 starhtly
lbe d 
mation anc n
 Prose Arran,
 n 
theter
 viricty f
ces
 leveluester e
x
is
mesdrde
ble and
do  evell ean 
of do
ource of

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.70)
okyo a -243,
Septomber 22. 1949.
serel cor   ef e sson de
pert  de i
oewf to st no aeipotati s
i
v 
reorg ciais of
9
ucsionand to
C
thev
usiving
 of variou
2.0

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.81)
LT
TADARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDE.TIAL
WWT
TO
FE - Yr. Yutterworth
DATE:
Septeaber 27, 1949
E 一 Mr. thop lu
FROM
DIVISION OF
SUBJECT:
Attached.
ST ASN AFFAIRS
13949
to the RMR Central Filee
  ' to . se, rce ntereprent
r tat tas ntor leertl roo sson be itiated.
watione tat you prerosly
s t n at this
894.50/9-
t a
 tpose 7 1051
 o ft   take
st wthestons
s thee of the
tr  takeover would
f the SoF tert ce end a
2749
 t 
CS/
W
21
5
T
5
10
0
RL/R
2
1x.1
1.
at

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
894.50/9.2649
RO'D
Office of the U. S. Political Advieer
OOT 5
for Japan
ACTION
Toryo, September 26, 1949.
No. 669
Moaten
INFO
FR
R
wst
DC/R
ITP
OFD
Su
ehao1l:t.::en Repcrt
U/FAA
OLI
TRC
U/FW
Tne H. r.r:
AGRI
COM
N48!:1)
TAR
TREAS
iles
Centra
Sir
FISH & W
MINES
I have the nrwar five cuptes of an Englih tranalaon
BCA
of a repor! prepard  ccaric Rehabilitation Comittee, an in-
LABOR
depender en s Soverrment, under date of Yay 10, 19
NBRB
Comoniy a t   Plan." the enclosed report is the r
of some w yearso
he Planning Secretariat of the
Economic Stat zu..a sunsequently by the Economic Rohab
tation Plannin mi  was estatlished in May, 1948, under
chairmanship  ine ironi pen completion of the report in May,
som
1949, however Frrmier  A anrounced that it would not be publish
Subsequently, it was : n red at the report might be published as th
private view  n: t nt as a statement of the Govern
ment a poilcy S. r  .s n un ne final decision has been made
regarding publication
Since the onomis zaton Board was the most active perm
nent agency part:cipatin, n u: compilation of the report, the deatr
sion not to publish came is ratler a sharp blow to the Board' pre
tige. Nore recently the oard has suffered a defeat at the hande of
the Ministry of Fiance rexarci., the rate at which subsddies should
be abolished, and it :: rel ably reported that Mr. AOkI Takayoshi,
Director of the Boari, wili resign shortiy. Mr. INABA Hideso, Counselor
to the Board and Secretary General to the Planning Committee, has al-
ready resigned as a rest.l:  the Pramier's stand.
The enclosed plan cails for a self-sufficient Japan by 1953, it
being assumed that American aid will be gradually curtailed and xdll
be finally eliminated in tne target year. Population in 1953, it is
assumed, will oe 132 per cent of the 1930-34 level, while it is planned
that the standard of living wall reach 89.9 per cent of that for the
base years. Production levels for mining and manufacturing will reeeh
133.9 per cent of those for the base period, it is planned, while the
corresponding figure for agriculture, forestry, and fiehing wall be
110.6 per cent. Imports, on the other hand, will be caly 72 per amd
and axports only 87 per cent of the base leveles as will be motes
low, however, these last figures are somewhat misleetim
UL141952
BESTRICTED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's De: pate:. No.
September
- 2-
The Fre.
n is sid to be based on the
fact tha
 rincip s; this criticism is ap
parently i
ief t products incorporating
a high pero
ranics, chemicals,
and staple
expense of such indus-
tries as .
te noted that the r
port strm
 contristhe
Premier tpe o ta sue a prorr.
in view af :
etres for side spreeeentro f
the  me
  a maebnously seored he Sabinet for
surr
w  in shat uny phan for solfesurficreney
within a relat t  te muet contain hi hly contro-
versial prote mts.
 is that the Premier sh wid at
least 1:
s poruct of two years of nt
sive for
y or malysis is made, i is
lieved tat e fv pment, touching on some of the hirh pein's
of the popert.    ree pareent.
Phe enclord    Pss export goal at ol,5ll,o00,
with imperes  The conelusion that these
represent pr co e respeetively of comparat le fi
for the l-1 pri, t r. res rot seem to be justified, in
view of the fet ti: rear rore for the tase period is apparently
calculated n the ts  e etoter-Noventer 1943 price level. whiie
the fi.ures for 1 pr cup v a irop by that date of 25 per cent in
the price or importe m: is pr t in she price of exports. Picuren
at the vetoter-toveme r P  priee level, the same volume of imperrs
would co warly  e co rs. l would considerety csowe
compensats th. unless prices i
extent pred e sirure conte
The preeme  woost rere ly more accessite
than
frice s
Japanese i wee Forwared wdich this Miesi
despatch
It shoued b ep. owover, chat, w he Foer e
study was aimed at potalrmont  sn lvso-ly3l. standari of livi.
present suty aims cnt  ai sulf-suffieseney, and propor
attain that geal witn a nit. f living only 89.9 per cent of hs
for the 1/po-3a perit  ea ltn inoome is expeeted to recover
per cent of trae For the porioar phe difference betwr he o
figures is necounted for ty eapit al acoumctation, which is expeste to
take place at a conci derabiy hi mer cote than during the base periot.
The Committee' plm phie vory beavily en the expansion ef inlas
triee, particutrly cheme cale mri coreaias, which. tre based primarily
on internal resource:
s he prearam conteuplates that production
of staple fiber yarn in iy  wiil  e 473.3 per cen of that for th: 
period, comparable fiourer for cmrtis soda and amsonium sulfate wi
be 38o.2 per cent and 3oe  por cen respectively. it is planned tt
by thus maximiziny the utilization of domestie resources, the net c:st
return on exportstr p  less payments for raw materials to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.82)
Tokyo's
Septemtor
feed expor.
n1'53, us compared ch
the pre sent
er. ts lower than the
pre-war 
 to the loss of
the Ae
 ecees of tne
present
I ve opiry
domesti
 193
1:1
.
per
peri
cent
feri
gren tor
is comm
prcr
e 
Agrical
or 1
reelunt
1930ー22
t level in viewthet
that 
caily ereat.losve i is
diffic.
of 
or
rather
inflate
red
cent
regarii
The rec 
sion
attainson 
he ae  no:
millionfr
n
ment efte
grees te 
and  
gram
Feorae rate
terms soewbat nt
ed. the
cash dooome e ewer than e pre-war rate, howe.
it contepi
nan rinthe bas
period). ane st i somew of step won tot
th.e
RESTRICPED

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despa
September
the rapid
u be stabilized, and, more
specifical.
 decreased.
More
io be n ad in the ore
mises
is assued that, by
1953, "fr…
tored or muloilaterel
clearing
a free r cur
rencies.
 n lated, it is
calculat.
lon Oom trde
with the
ole and
non
) dt1.
Asix.
have been
accon
Asia
ric.
is diffl:
recovery nd
Ir.
effort
earlier
Tiasi de
no. 34.
of sn.
In view 
ree las so far roe
duced anyh 
that the Precter
has eheen
tolievet trat Phe Departrent
may find it rob.
ald
Enclosures
Five copie
Rehatittoati 
Parchment t
350
EGSeidens
RESPRICTED

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
RLD
1
Action Assigned te
Act:on Taken
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, September 26, 1949.
 of rricer
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
De
1rectiou to DC/R
REC D
OFFICE OF
OCT A
No. 671
POLICY
ACTION
ITP-enc
UNCLASSIFIED
INFC
894.50/9-2649
FR
10/49cTW
FAR
Sub ct: Forwarding Findings or Survey Regarding Public
FE.un.
Interest in Purchase or Zaibatsu Stocks.
PCSn
0.1
COR
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to forward five
copies of a public opinion survey entitled "The Purchase of
Zaibatsu Stocks: an Appraisal of Public Interest," and released
on August 31, 1949, by the Public Opinion and Sociological Re-
search Division, Civil Information and Education Section, General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
The enclosed survey, which was prepared to assist in the dis-
posal of "Zaibatsu" securities and which is the result of inter-
views with over 5,000 persons, comes to the gloomy conclusion that
nine out of ten persons either know nothing of or have mistaken
ideas about the "securities democratization program," and that
"interest in the program is slight."
The survey notes, however, that there is "some good will" to-
ward the program, and concludes that a wider base of stockholders
has been built up than existed prior to the war.
SOURGES DIVISION
celi
Enclosure:
Five copies of "The Purchase of Zaibatsu
DEC
Stocks: an Appraisal of Public Interest."
FILED
20
i3
10
Parchment Mat to the Department.
FAP
500
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:lee
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
50/9.2649
Sadre to Despatch No. , September 26,
1949, from the Office of the U. S. Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
RESTRICTED
#669
"Forwarding Translation of Economic Rehabili-
REP
OFTTHK
ECONOMIC REHABILITAATION
PLANNIHGCOMMITTEE
(Tentative)
10 May 1949
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PLANNING COMMITTEE
RESTRICTED

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
Chart on the Route to Attain
Self-supporting Economy of Japan
140%
—130%
Po
pulation
—120%
110%
hing
100%
90%
Fod
80%
70%
60%
50%
Imy
40%
-30%
20%
-10%
0%
1930-1934
19.48
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
Population
85.1251285640313087663
66,339
100
80.697121
82.33512483.772126
(1,000 persons)
National Income
12984112139+3121
11,555
100
9956 8611,230 97 12125105
Unit edil. Yon
115.90|798123.238.129.84
71na0-3+Prire
144.50
100
89.45|61.9 99.96692107.20|743
Agr.Forest
100.0
85.6
91.8
96.6
100.7
105.4
1106
Fishing
duc-
Mining
100.0-
59.0
74.0
88.3
102.1
118.5
Dion
Mfg
fore
Export
1,999
259
15
599
78745
999|58
(inttl.S
Import
683|31
1,005
1,242|57
2197
100
57.5
66.o
72
100.0

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
Table. of Contents
I. Introductory Note
II. Present Condition of Economy and Basis' of Resowery
(Problems of Recovery)
III. Basic Principles
1. Target of Recovery
2. Premises of the Plan
(External Conditions)
3. Process of Implementation
IV. Outline of the Plan
1. Scale of Self-sustaining Economy
2. International Payments
National Income
Production Program
5.
Transportation
88
Investment Program
7. Public Finance
8. Employment
9. Standerd of Living
(Consumption Level)
10. Technique
Intornational Balance of Payment
1. Deoreaso of Amount of Basio Imports
and Increase of Net Receipt of Foreign
Currency
Invisible Trade Income
Changes in the Terms of Trade
Economio Recovery in East Asta
5. Examination by Areas

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
VI. Problem of Capital Accumulation
VII. Conclusion
(For the Realization of the Ruhabilitation
Program)

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
I. INTRODUCTORY HOTE
The Eoonomio. Rehabilitation Planning Commipte
in May 1948 with high espirations to set up on
it was called upon to perform. It took over the
vlously had been conducted by the Long-Range Economio
eoretarial Group establdshed mIthin the Eoonomic Stah
Board and was created for the purpese of erpanding that
a comprehensive national seale with a memberahip gompos
minent persons of learning and experience representin
in Japan.
As shown in Table 1 the committee consimted of-el
committees and 35 divisions. Committee membere and counod
who partioipated in these committees numbered 551 anda5et
vely. Including all other persons who are actually engaged
the operation, the total number of gereonnel was no Tees than
2:000.
TABLE 1
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE
Steeving Sub-Committee-Counoillors' Neeting-
INDUSTRY SUB-COMMITTEE
Gonoral Affairs Division
Power
Divimion
Metal & Machinary Ditislon
Tomlo
Diyieion
D1V104

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
2
FOOD AND THER NECESSARY LIVELIHOOD SUB-COLMITTEE
Ganeral Affairs Division
Agriculture
Division
Forestry
Division
Aquatic
Division
Food Procossing Division
Sanitary Ware
Division
FOREIGN TRADE SUB-CMITTEE
Steering
Division
Miscellaneous oods Division
Textile
Division
Foodstuffs
Division
Chomicals
Division
Invisible Trade Balance Division
TRAFIC SUB-COMMITTEE
Land Transportation Division,
Morine Transportation Division
Communication Division
RECONSTRUCTION SUB-COMMITTEE
Production Faoilitios Division
Transportation Facilities Division
Land Preservation Division
Housing Division
EMPLOYMENT SUB-COMMITTEE
.Steering Division
First Division
Segond Division

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
NATIONAL INCOME SUB-COMMITTEE
Industrial Investment Diviaion
National Income Division
Investment Divieion
Consumption Division
Finance Division
Price Division
TICHNICAL SUB-COMMITTEE
Experimental & Research Agency Division
Technical Members Training Division
During one year that has since passed the committee co
llected all basic data. After engaging in a series of alsouaulon
and debate on a forecast of economic conditions both atrhame hnde
abroad it worked et the besic conoept of the plan and on the
basis of it drew up plans for eaoh of the several phases of the
work.
It is of course well-nigh impossible, when problema abopnan
as they do tuday, to expect tho entire committee to reaah a un-
animous conclusion on all policies and plans. The present Beport
represents the conclusions, though not necessarilp definit
which have been arrived at efter aotive discasblons and d
consideration.
However, because of the limil tation-on the time altumod
availabllity of data and cabeoialay because of the
in conditions both here and abroad we cannotal
ssarily performed the task assigned us to full eath

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
Perhaps it might be sald that this plan is no more
post leading to the formulation of a mere complete one in
As a result of more than ten years of a foroed prune
of war and the defeat which came as its aftermath, tapan
thrown into an abyss of ruin and confusion. Economic revival
cannot, under such ciroamstances, be left to natural econsnto
power. Rather it is absclutely necessary to plen in advanee
direction whioh reconstruction should take and accordingI te
push forward vigorouely the efffrts toward rewovery. The powl
of Japan of course were not oblivious of this need without ma
for our committee to be organized. With the gradual reapvory 
our country from the shock of defeat, with the steady rime
produetion and reopening of foreign trade and with the doate food
situatlon being alleviated by the generous aid of the Allied Pow
more and more of pur people have begun to think seriously of the
future-destiny of Japan. What will the future form of Japanesn
econcmy be? How should it be revived? These baslc questiens
could nct escape the serious eonoern and interest of our peeple.
The attempt to respond to the interest of theee people with
concrete figures, in other words, the effort to draw up an
"econemic' echedule" for Japan's future, was gradually stimulated
amid such growing concern among them. However, as it is with ai
other matters, the work itself of drawing up an future "economie
schedule" could not be begun in real earnest until eponomic recavery
has reached a certain stage.
As a result of renewed activity by the people, reawakened
from the lethargy which followed the mar defeat, and as  resuit
of foreign aid, the life of the nation brightenea up to o
extont. Mining and menufacturing produotion w
after the war dropped to a mere 10 per cont 
34) level steadily began to piek up.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
time was believed to be headed taward inevitable dfeas
down and the nation's economic actiwities began to moye 
step in the direction of recovery. Thus since the shi o
policy from the initial stage of demilitarization, ebonomio
democratization and relief to the stage of "recovery aia" and 
"promotion of a self-sustaining economy", it was proposed that
efforts be made to draw up a schedule of recovery for panese
economy which, utilizing fireign aid as a lever and starting
from rock bottom realities, was seeking to rise.to the level
of the goal set..
The initial effort was the "E.S.B.'s Birst Draft of
Eoonomic Rohabilitation Plan" which was submitted as referenge
data to this C-mmittee in May last year. The plan outlinedi
the present Report is a development of the principles et forth
in that draft. In other wirds, this program has followed the
basic principles set forth in the First Draft, while effonts
have been made at the same time to grasp the reallties of the
Japanese cconomy more clearly and to examine the internal and
external situation more carefully so that it may be as much
workable as possible.
It is precisely for the purpose of making the program
workccle that the Committee has, in formulating it, given
special attention to coordinating the materials and funds
aspect of economy. It is again for the pame purpose that
the-Cemmittee has decided to reformulate the program oith
carly establishment of a self-supporting economy and conomio
stabilization as the central target to meet the situation changed
as e result of the implementation of the Nine-Puint Eoonomio

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Stabilization Program an the establishment of a'single exohnge
rete.
It is, hewever, not easy to draw up an verall program
which is workable in the true sense of the word. At the time
when the political and economic situation at  ome and abraod
is undergoing unpredictable changes as it is now, it is well-nigh
impossible to formulate a workable frogram over such a long period
as five years. In view of this factor, the program for the first
two years is lesigned to be a workable plan based on the most realisti
evaluation of the various conditions which is possible at the moment,
while the pr gram for the subsequent three years is Jesigned to be 
a target plan based on the anticipation of some favpurable factorsl
Further, it will be inevitable that any future changes in the
cconomic conditions f cur country call for a revision of this
program.
We who have participated in the formulation of this program
will be most gratified if tnis Rcport stimulates active discussion
among the people on the future of a peaceful Japan and serves as
a helpful reference for any studies that may be made of industrial
outlook and for any planning of local development projects. We
hope it will accomplish its true pur sse by serving as a cog in
the wheel f recovery aimed at the establishment of natlonal
economic self-support.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
II. PRESENT EDITICN OF ENOMY AND BASIS OF RECOV
Problems of Rocovery
A recovery plan should not simply be an outline of the g
to be attained five years from nuw. In every degree it should
be founded upon realities. We like, therefore, to commence our
Ro,ort by seeking, first f ell, an unierstanding of the actual
state f Japanese econ ny by consideraing what exactly constitutea
the foundations of economic recovery.
A close bservation of the actual state of sur economy, which
we considered above to bo the basis upon which to effect recovery
will eneble us to note not nly the low level of our economy but al.
the fact tnat henind it there exist innumerable problems which ar.
inseparaole from recovery. The first of these is the diminution of
the basis of our economy. It constitutes the common source of many
of our post-war economic difficulties. Another problem is the
existence of twists and turns in the economic circulation. Let us
go into these problems'at some length.
a. Dimunition of the Basis of Our Post-War Eoonomy
Tnere have been fundamental changes in the condition of our
national economy compared with what obtained before the war and
the basis of our cconomy has beed greatly weakened.
(1) Loss of Tarritory and the Destruction and
Deterioration of our National Wealth
By the defeet we have lost in a single stroke such former
colonial areas as Korea, Formosa, Su halien and the South Seas
Dalands whdoh conetituted 43 per cent of the total area of Japanese
tarritoty, dractically cutting down our sources of food and induetria

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
raw materials. Even in these narrow islands which are 1e
the losses sustained by our national industrial wealth d
indirectly as a result of the wer amount to 4,200 billion
basis of official prices prevailing at the end of 1949. Thie
ponds to one-fourth of our pre-war natlonal wealth and corre pondt
to about two years of our national income The loss per capital
53,000 Yen.
Furthermere, as the losses in warships, aircraft and weapons
of war are ustimeted to be about the same in extent as lesses in
industrial wealth. If, in sddition to these, other tangible and
intangiblc losses are added up, suoh es the money wasted in proseou
ing war, the disasters th our land and depletion In the ren1
capital of our enterprises, thus, the magnitude of /our war damages 
the lesses suffered by our national economy become manifestly olear.
Loss of assets is not a single day's loss. By the resalting dimi-
nuti n of the besis of production it has become a major factor
causing delay in the revivel of our post-war economy.
(2) Sudden Increase in Demestid Population
In these narrow isles, now reduced to a state of proverty, only 
ourppopulation stands out conspicuously, increasing at an alarming
ratc. Whut can this be but a tragedy?
Combining netural incrense and repatriates from abroed, the
incrense in population has pagsed the 9,000,000 mark since the end
of the war. Taking only the net increase in this period, the
figur. excceds the t tal population of single countries such as
Australia and Sweden. By the unusual inerease in the birth rate and
drop in the death rate, the natural increase h s yearly rlsen to
a million and several hnadred thousands - to levels hitherto unknown

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
It is even said that the total population will' incroase
in the next seven or eight years. Compared to the populat
30 million in the carly Melji Perisd this indlcates.a thraeroid
increase within only 80 years. It further means that within
same narrow confines of this country as then a population the
as.great must now be supported. The unbalance of land and haturi
resources on the one hand and excessive population on the other
indeed the source of most of our economic ills. The effort toward
recovery in our country will henceforward be a Estruggle againn
populatien."
(3) Trade difficulties.
Leaving aside the slackness of our export industries caused
-by the decrease in productive power, our foreign trade sinde the
end of the war has bcen rigialy restricted by the imposition
of various conditions, both domestic and foreign, These are the,
loss of Japen's former sphere of influence, the political and
economic instability in various Far Eastern areas, the lack of
automomy in trade matters, the lack of convertibility between
currencies, the difficulty of being informed of foreign marke
situations due to the absence of overseas offices of our commeroial
firma and the increase in the burden of paying freight charges in
foreign exchange duc to the loss of our merchant fleet. The trade
record for last year compared with what obtained before the war
(based on the average for 1930-34) was no more than 15 per cent
for uxports and 31 per cent for imports. Depending on foreign
trade so c very great degree was we do, the diminution of our
trade naturaliy and necessarily would cause a drop in the level o

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
10
living and cause industrial lags: We are covering oumj
rements with financial aid from the United States, but fu
speaking the problem can not be solved unless the exporting
purchasing power of Far Eastern countries increases.
In the Western European countries, a cooperntive organiza
for the purpose of reccvery has already been set up with the
Marshall Plan providing the impetus. For the purpose of setti
ing transactions ameng them a special settlement agreement has
been entered into and this is contributing to. the promotionof
trade relations among them. The Far East, on the contrary, is
less integnated than Europe and eternal aid to the regian hae thue
far been less than for Europe.Political and eo nomio unrest has
presented a situation which is difficult to forecast. hen we ocmpa
the situation here with that in Western European countries we car
help but say that taey have made much more progress in their recover
than we have, even though they sáffered the same war damages as we
have.
b. Distertion of Economic Circulation.
Our economy, low though the level is to which it has been reyived
is not an cconomy operating under well-established normal processes
of circulation, but one supported by large foreign aid, government
subsidies and dissipation of past capital accumulations. The important
question we should not overlook in discussing the present condition of
our economy as a starting point of recovery is the fact that it containe
such unsound elements ss decrease in labour productivity, the existence
of potential unemployment, the unbalance in the price structure and
many other unaound factors.
(1) The Expansion and Acoumuletion of Excesa Imports.
Perhaps the first of all which should be mentioned is the greatr
excess of imports. Behind the favorable turn in our economy dusti

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
lést year is the important role playãd by exbesg iapo
covered by foreign aid. The notable exganmion of emp
half of last year was, to be sure, a factor which contr.
crease in the volume of imports, but even more than that
of excess imports directly aaded to our economic power, we
not forget thet our recovery up to the present level ha
possible only by the foreign aid we have received to the extent
billion dollers sincc the end of the war, til1 June l949
(2) Government Subsidies and Investments
In the Budgot for the l948 fiscal year the subsidies for atab
zation band commodities and subsidies for imports takan tog
totaled no less than 2o0 billian yen. Loans made by the Recon
Finance Bank excceded 70 billion yen including working capitglrto
cover deficit financing. Although it cannot be denied that the
large financial investments contributed greatly to the accumulatron
capital, it also can not be disputed that they served, at the eame
time, as a strong inflationary pressure.
(3) Dissipation of the Real Capiiel of Enterprises
The government is carrying out low price pelicy to maintain
economic circulation. Under the present tax law and efficial prloe for
mula the inclusion in the production cost of depreciation in exceea of
the amounts required on the basis of the book value is, in prinorple,
not permitted from the view point of this policy. Hence, depreciations
now are only a fractlon of what has to be depreclated if assets are eyalu
ed at current prices. Avcordingly, except for these categories of industy
which have been declared especially essential, it is no diffiouft to
imagine that facilities were generally being dissipated rether than peing
maintained. Thc sacrifige made by such aiasipation of capital has made
accumulation of capital by the major lmdustriee poasible and sert
es a breakwater against the tide of infiation.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
12
Devastatlon of Land and Depletion.of
National Wealth
The depletion of capital has not been confined to the
of our industrial enterprises. It extends to the ravaging of
our land by damages to rivers and indlecriminate felling of for
to ineufficiont repelrs and even to the "eating up" at housda n
clothing by individuals. Our land, whose devastation has bean
caused by inadequate maintenance, hae been weakened in its-poer
to resist disasters. Even a slight rainfall cauges fldoda, ohile
the devastation of our farmlands and forests recur In evensexpe
degree. The housing shortage and depletl n of clothes ponsti
tors which prevent the raising of labor productivity.
(5) Lag in Labor Productivity: Concealed Unemployment
The causes of'the drop in productivity of labor may be olea
sified into those which are asoribable to capital---the lowering
of the rate f operation due to lack of fuel, power and materials and
deterioration of mechanical Installations---and those which are
ascr ibable to labor---the drop in tcchnical standards and weakening
of the will to work. The labor productivity which for a short
while after the war had remained stationary at 30 per cent of the pre
war level has been restored to a little below 50 per cent.. As mentidne
vefore, the fact that the recovery of. mining and manufacturing
producti n is not backed up by a corresponding inoroase in labo
priductivity is of fundamental Importande in connection with the
rationalization of Japanese economy and atrengthening of competie
tive power of the Japanese goods in export markete. The conoeal
over-umgl ymcnt which manifeste itaelf in the lowering oflnbo
productivity, together with the pprlation abaorbed ntthe

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
lndustrles because of inflation and the population of th
million which'in one stroko was-thrown into the laps of
agrioulture to support after the war, constitutea an anormor
labor pool. The number of unemployed under the natisnal bendd
of 1947 was no more than 650,000 because, for teopnical redapna
only those who were completely unemployed were csunted. If
the partially employed and ther potentially unemployed are added
to the above figure it is estimated that the total number o un-
employed would be considerably larger.
I6) 'The Unbalanced Prige Structure
The contradictions inherent In our present economy whigh
we have discussed above are reflected in a concentrated form
in the unbalance which exists in the price structure. The present
price atructure is extremely unbalanced compared with that before
the war or that of the outslde world. The principel causee of the
unbalance are as follows;
(1) The reorganization of the industrial structure to mect the
domand of war under economic isolation;
(2) the fact that the post-war decline in pr duction level and
labour productivity is of different magnitudes in agriculture and
industry; (3) the dIfference in the degree of wartime industrial
readjustment and war damages sustalned and in the fall in rate of
operation due to shortage of raw matertals. and power dopending upon
the type and size of industries; (4) the existence of dual prices,
official and blackmarket, and the differences among different induatrie
in the degree of dependence on blackmarket egonomy vanying
type and size of the industry; and (5) the large goverament subeld

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
14
In order to effect the rationalizetion of Japanese eoonomy and to
it to return to the world economy, the abnormalities of our prioe
structure must be'corrected. To do this, it is at the same time
required that the industrial structure which constitutes themi
of the price structure be reorganized, enterprises rationaliwed and
labor productivity increased.
Such abnormality, even though we were aware of the need, our natio
economy has not een able to save up enough strength to solve the pro
blem. Until the economy is rebuilt and such economic conditions as
will permit a truly normal economic circulation come to prevail, some
of the abnormalities - such as foreign aid and the dissipation of
capital in industries not so essential - will necessarily continue
to exist. But the correction of abnormal features in our present
economy, such as inflation, unbalance in tne price.structure, and
enormous financial sutsidies, is preregutstteto recovery. Unless
we go the whole way, correcting all the ills that exist, we cannot
hope to achieve true/economic recovery.
Then, it will become most essential to overcome inflation
and restore the mormal working of the national economy without
dolay. It wae in cognizance of this need that the strict balance
of the cosolidated budcget was achieved and a single exchange rate
was established under the Nine-Point Eoonomic Stabilization Program.
This meant a significant turning point for the Je anese economy.
In other words, a series of currency stabilizatien measures brought,
in its train, a tendeney that signs of a stabilization panic rootedin
lack of effective demand gradually bedome universal; suoh signo are
contraction of currenoy, fall in blhckmarket prices, stationary
productlon, uncovering of hidden unemployment, increased unemploy
ment,etc.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
15
Of course, Bome dislocations are inevitabla In tn
of economid stabilization and rationalizatlon, but thekj
be as much dangerous as advance of inflatlon once they go
beyond the limit thet the weakened Japenese goongay can
stand. The situation is made more difficult by the fact
that export trede of which very muoh was expected as tfactor
to make up for lack of effcctive dumand at nome is vary muck n
due to a tendnecy of worldwide depression and other factors
From a long-range point of view on which the rehabiltstion
plan is based, it must be noted that long term investment egaant
to cconomic recovery tenus to be suppressed in such rstraneip
period. The situation is, as we have just explained, very mch
complicnted. We must always examine the physical capacity'sr the
Japancse economy : nu, kebp the implementatlon of the stebilization
and rationalization  clicy within the bounds of this cacity. Simul-
taneously, accumulation of capital essential to econ mic reouvery
must e carried cut to the possible maximuth.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
ABIO
targats of reccvery
The prfnary targot of this Plan is to echieve sush a al
Ing eosnomy as will onable rattonal economic circulatitm an the
year of the plan.
Then, how should this self-suppcrting economy be actually,p
out?
It may be desirable to map out such an economy ge will a
oonsiderably high standard of living in crder to-give the peoplehopes
and to stir up enthusiam for economic recovery. In actnaltty, bo
ever, we have to start with the much dooreased torritory, neager 
sources, and destroyed and detericrnted facirities as the limiting
factors.
The population is already over 80 millicn and is expocted to ba at
least 87,660,cco in 1953. Moreovor, 1t is expocted that, the Ameri
can aid, which has contributed a great doal to the, cconomic rocevery
of our country, will decreaso rapiuly in the future and be discontinued
after FY 1952. The standard of living and levol of production in the
future, therefore, depend, in the final analysis, upon the volume of
export trade ana importing capacity dotermined by it.  prosent
there are great external limitations in the way of export expansion.
In the near future, the intornational situationfao that the oast
/may improve
Asiatie markots may be restored and frce exchange of currencios becomo
possible. But, for the time Doing, no auch optimiem is warranted.
Moreover, considering shontage or cs itaa and difficulty of an
porting maw materiale, wo are not allowod to plan may dr stic increnso
in connecticn, with the recovery or such basic indudtrics such aa cal
electricity and iron'and steel industries.
If we are to draw up a plan whick 1a workable un ler sudff bineum-
stances,,the scale cf a solf-supecrting sconcmy is bound to bo snall.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
17.
ch the cther hand, if the target is too small, the pesuat
limoly to ba that econmy is not stabilized, eating-up or na
not stoppod, and consequently no real self-supperting ecoomy
Taking full account of these two conflicting factora this plh
defined such a self-supporting economy as will enable rational econci
circulation to mean the economic conditions in which there is no more
deficit in public finence, private onterprise or family economy, in
other wcris, halting of increasingly severe effect of the. natural disester
devastating the land, no mcre recovery of enterprises to all apperango
while capital is actually being eaten up, no more bare subsistence lov
of people's living or no mcre balance of payment barely paid eff by
large foreign aid and in which a circulation of economy in more or lara
balanced form is possible. The self-supporting economy to be achioved
five years chead, therefore, is not on such a scale as will assure his
standard of living to the people.
Tho next problem 1s how to translate this cbjective of achieving
"such a self-supporting oconomy as will onable a rationel economto
circulaticn" into an actual economic structure. The method of trans-
lation is not so simple. But the baste principles followed are as
follows:
a. Industrial structure desired:
This country has boen in the past and is as yet, greatly depend
ent upon foreign econ omy. Unter present circumstance where there are
numerous difficulties in the way of trade, considerable justification
may be found for the opinion which advocates a self-sufficiont struature
by a positiye exploitaticn of indigenous resources and inorease of foed
produotion/
However, when vwe consider circumstances such as the
natural lAmitations, goographical conditions, increase in population,
investing capacity for exploitation cf indigenous resourpes end ite
effectiveness, rise in the marginal cost of production, internmhd
competition and little possibility to be found under the present

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.97)
cirqumstances of building up a desiraale self-sufficient
Japanese people in the near future the conelusion is drewn-th
tion of this country's economy, should, in keeping with the
of the history of economic developmont,determine its struatur
a form as will pusititely harmonize itself with the internationai
nomy.
When the prospect of export trade is not exactly bright.
industrial structuro which are fundamentally very muck depende
fcreign economy must ain at the increase in the production of indi
genous resources and advancement of industrial structure within the
limit. that will enable raticnal increase in increasing self-suffioiency.
Tho prosont plan is drawn up roughly along these lines.
Touching next upon the relation botween agriculture and mining
and manufacturing in prcduction level and manufacturing in order to
attain a rapid increase in national incomo, in oxport tradé or 
employment, it may be that greater emphasis should be laid at the pres
sent stago upon the mining and manufacturing.
There are great naturai
militaticns on agriculture. Any further incrcase in agricuttural pro
ducticn will call for an onormous capital investment. But, under the
present oapital shcrtage, it is required that emphasis in investment
be placod uppn mining and manufacturing which give greater yield on
invested capital.
 Morecver, in order tc modernize agriculture, in-.
creased prcduction in industries empecially in the production of basio
producer goods must first be achieved. .There is hardly room left
moreover, to absorb the werking population into agriculture any fur-
ther. Looked at from any angle, mining and manufacturing should be
on the ascendant and export from that field should advance so as to
form a larger and larger sconomic circulation. On the above stated
ground, this plan places emphasis upon mining and manufacturing and.
aims et the expansion of export through their developmont and at the
subsequent enlargement of scale of ocontmic circulaticn.
W1th

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
19
tpto the mining an? manufacturing, expunrion oyhel
of heay and chemfeal inlustries is desireble
that when we lIcek into the structure of export inaustry, 
doney that the center of wei ht is gradually chifting from the i
and cotten. textiles tc metals, maqhinury and chemioads. Further
order to decrease the necessery emount of import/far as reascnably
/as /
it is aftar all necessary to inlustmizlizo the inlustrial structure
to meximize utilisation of indigonous resources. This can be maid to
the natural courae of ecen mic developmont frc a istoricni stahapbiny
and give this ccuntry a pessibility of avciding to bo irifted igh and
low in tho fluotuating waves of the worla econ ny.
In order to promote the rohabilitation of heavy and chemical in
lustrios it is necossary to increase clectricity and ccal production
to strengthen both land and water transpertaticn, to effect the quais
tative improvoment of technique and to make lare co ital accurulation
und to impurtynt raw materiale. Tho extont of oxparsien cf heavy ma
/noposaary
chol lustries must o dmi 
sere such
coniitiona aro fulfilled.
L. Productien and Emplcyment.
In crler to really sta ilizo economy, itiis net sufficiont merely
to enlarge the scale of pre uction or trade, but it is also necessary
to achieve a certain balance between preduction and mploymont, 1.e.,
occupaticnal distribution of the people. If at all vossiblo we would
like to bring about "full oaploymont." In view ef expesaive over
populution, future ocmpetition in the world economy, it is by no
means easy task.
At the present stage, thorofore, it is Recessary to placo enphasis
upon a rationalization er employmont aistribution which is in line with
an incroase in latour productiulty and atahanso in the iniustrial
structure. It is desiratle from the viewpolete f international com-
etition that the
lcusivaty oxcecd that

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.92)
Expanaion of export anc dccest
It Would be a miatake to think that
ive of this Plan, i.e., self-supporting
If the Lalance of international payment
how unfavourablo the balance may he in the proeeding ye
foreign ail to make gocd the unfawourablo bulanda le
to docrease rapidly; tho maximum expenbion
importent task bofore us throughout the peried covened ty the
There is no doubt that, for this purpose, export shonta be exmpdod
even at the sacrifico of domestic consumatfun The Covernment and
the poo:lo must direct their utmost efforte towarde the bxpenaion
export. Strone measures must be taken to inarease s allocafon of
materials and funds for export, to ratipnalize oxport indus
to develop export markots in an active manner
4. Consumption and investment
It rous without saying that one of the primary aims of the econe
mic recovery program is to raise the peoplels standard of liips
the prosont stago whore primary impertance la attaohoe to a selr
sup crting econ my, however, pluns should be urawn up with emphasiy on
incrouse of capital accumulaticn rather than on tho raise of the stind
ard of living in view of the factors mentioned befcre such as natural
digastore, wear ond tear of capital facilitiea, inoreape in population.
So that not only curing the poriod of planhing aw oven in the final
yoar, the proportion of investmont and consumptionain tho national
income should be such us t lay greaton strese en the amer.
This is, howover, by no moans to pormit thek the cepatmption of
the poople, will o fixed, that is to say, the onaumpelmn Fevel of
the ecale be rade rigid- er in some casge even be ltwen
oducti
Accorain-ly, if labour prcductivitymin 
and trade increase, the increas wealth shou
anons the peoplo in proportion to thoir or
shoul? be such co will mmintain abeur pro

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
However, during thie period, adequate improvemendris
conditlons of the poople cannot be hoped for so that the ee
the people during this period should be guidod to the direction
1s, sharing as far as possible of what littlo. thero is.
the oconomy of the final yoar must nct repeat the income stphotu
the 1930-34 period which includec a periol of abnormal farm deprei
but a rational/distribution must bo carried out.
e. Modornization
In the Nonnet Plan of Franco, as is well known, the molernization
of facilitics constitutes the contral target. When we conaider int
national competition, dotericration and lcw productivity of the exig
ing fucilities, otc., ve feel strongly the noed of modornization
tho coming five years, howcver, we aro not allowed to make tho moder-
nization of facilities our most important objective in view of the
limitation cå capital accumulation, existence of a lurge number of
surplus facilitica, otc.
On this ground, tho Flan doos not aim at any extonsive. moderni-
zation oxcept in such impcrtant export industries as muchinery, chemical
and textile industries. It may be expected that private foroien in-
vestmonts will give a strong irpetus for the modernization of export
industries.
In agriculture, modernization is essential t. the imprevement
in productivity and standard of livin, of the fareers. It is, however
believed that, for the coming five yo rs, medernization will have to
be limitod t: scme mechanizaticn ane some incroaso in livestock popu-
lation.
2. Pronisos f the Flan (external conditions)
In drawing a picture of tho Japaneso econony as it should bo
the future on tho scale and in the atruature stated nbove, it
assumed that tho situation will chango in thebelowmejpted

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
When things are changing as rapidly as nowy it is haturally
to fcrecast tho trond of external, and interned conditions
long poried as fivo years with certainty and to craw a plnn on the
of this forecast. This plan,is, therefcre, baseu on the moot re
forocast for tho first half perioe ccmpuratively easy to forecpst
n the rathor c,timistic ussumption fur the latter halr perica ifr
c lt to furocaet. The external conditions cf particular in ortance
are us follows:
4. First half period
1) The internatinal political situation will gradually improxe
and the so-called"cold war" will bo somewhat eased.
2) The situation in tho East Asia, political as well as economia
will not noticeably change but our trade with the Southorn areas
will increaso and trado restrictions relaxed to a considerable e
tont.
3) Froo exchango of curroncius will not yot bo rostored, but, an
a result of trado and clouring agrecmonts, export will bo con-
sidorably expandod.
4) e ostabaishmont of a singlo exchange rate will have no
notic able offects.on tho export oxpansion.
b. Latter half period
1) The Situation in the East Asia, political as well as econo-
ric, will be almost stabilizod and activo trade between tho
East Aslatic countries ard Japan will be rovivod.
2) In the last yoar of the Plan, free axchange of curréncies
will be restored or multilatoral cloaring agreements will have
the same effoct as freo oxobange of ourroncios.
3) Trado tarms and conditiona will be considerably improved
ant the rate of foroign investmont will become actiye, exped
ing modernization of induatrics.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
5)  Domestic industries will have been well rationalda
productivity raised with. the result that the Japanese
be able to stand intornational competition.
Moreover, 1t was assumod that the foreign aid will bo as muoh
currently expected for 1949 but will rapidly doorease and be discph
after FY 1952.
3. Procoss cf implomentation.
The objoctives and prenisos have been statod in the foregoing
It romuine now to consider tho precess by which they may be imple-
monted, or in other words, the course the Japanese econony should take
to reach the goal. This prcblem is of primary importance when the Plan
is not only to sct the goal to be reached five yoars uhead, but also
to bo workable.
In this Plan, it was assumes that the tempo of dovol'opment in
1950 and 1951 will be rather slow, since in the first half perfod the
main efforts are lirecte towards laying the grouni-work for recovery
auch as normalization of ccencmy, overcoming of inflation, improvement
and strongthoning of power ani transpertation. In the lutter half
period, tho tompc of developcnt was assumod to be sorewhat quicker as
a natural result of the comparativoly optiristic assumptions made.for
this poriod.
Whon it is assumed that such will bo the tempo of rocovery, the
first problenm to go considored will be whether tho target of recovery
should be approeched fr n all directiens in a uniform manner or from
whatever points considerod to be most impertent on a priority basis.
Woro wo to stato our conclusicn pcint-blank the latter asproach is be
lirved to be more desirable. Tho roagon fer this is tho material and
inmmn turial blcws which Japanose eccn riy recuived in tho War. It ia.
not pessibl: to rehabilitato this war-torn econcmy, to overhaul it 
complet-ly and to develop it further and further, ali in five years.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
Accordingly, the target" to be aghieved in rive
zation mentióned in the Rehabilitation Program is by no
a mere stagè in the progress of our economy towarde ultimate
For this reas n, it is considered oasential that the polioy
ing tho mest important problems on priority basia be followed
much the same lines as so-called "inclined production eyste
superpriority production system adopted in the bogtnning of 1947
such time as Japanese economy becomes self-supporting. From this
view point, empahsis is placed on the following five probloms.
(1) Disinflation policy and Rationalization of econpmy
(i1) Expansicn of exports
(111) Increase in prcduction of Glectricity, steel, coarand
strengthening of commiunications.
(iv) Incrcase in food produotion
(v) Restoration and prevention of offects of natural disasters
as far as possible.
These five points may be called the interim target in the pro
coss of achioving the primary objoctive of thia program, iies sucha
solf-supporting occnomy as will onable a rathomal oconomic ciroulatic
Then, why are these five points taken up as the central point of t
policy? And what are the considerations required from tho viewpoint
of the Rohabilitation Program as a whole in achieving this interim
targot.
Ration-
a. Disinflation policy and normalization of eccnomy.
Accumulation of oapital, essuntiaI u's it'is ti the implementation
of the rehabilitation plan, will cause inflation ani impode odohomia
stabilizction, if pushed beyond the capecity of the Japanese Soumon
On the other hand, thore is ne doubt that, if ws lay too
upcn stalilizctiony are no sc active on capital acoumalatlon
/and

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
delayed from the long range viewpqint. Evon
point of view, too abrupt a contraction-of ored
deflation unleashed by a fall in capital goods purohadin
Coordination of the two conflicting ideas, reconatruction
stabilizetion is one of the, most difficult probleme throu
this program. A policy to be taken to overcome inflation an
at the same time to avoid doflation will have the moat important
bomring on the 1 plementation of this program. Produetion ho
somewhat increased, but the Japanese economy is not yet free fr
many distcrtions in.economic circuletion which interacted with
inflation and hindered oconomic recovory: unbalanced price structur
an encrmous amount of governnont subeidies stationary labour
ductivity, a huge army of the hidden unemployed, dissipation of
real capital of onterprises, devastation of the land, eta
Elimination of these distortions and normalization of egonomy
must be the very prerequisite of the oconcmio recovory
In this plan, therefore, it has been set as an interim tar-
get essential for the implementation of the plan to complote
normalization of oconomy in the first half period, that is. by
the end of 1950. And in the plan 1t has been decided to doal with
coordination of reconstruction and stabilizetion, overcoming of
inflation not accompanted by deflation, elimination of oconomic
circulation etc. In the following mannen, Firs't of all, a
rational price structure will be establiahed by powerful imple-
mentation of a so-called "disinrlation pclicy" (one which aims
ut creatien of an aconomic condition in which there is neither
inflation nor doflaticn and a consideraulo accumulatfon or
cepital can bo expccted with prida ameals remaining almg

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
- 26 -
Simultaneously with this in the first place, rationalization of
enterprises will be acceleratod; in the second place subsidios
and other gcvernment expendituros which should be classified
consumption will be gradually cut down and public finance w
be cperatod within the limit of fair burden of taxation; and in
the third place, accumulated capital, modost as it may be, will.
be distributed in a ratienal manner under an effective cre it
policy so that necessary long-tere capital may be avuilable.
In this manner, the groundwork for inlustries will be built up
and expert will be expanded.
Eccn mic chans and dislocations cqused by monetary factors
will be elin instec in this way during the first half period.
It was folt that foreign aid as a primer to recovemy will be
mest offective, and a real upswing of prcduction in the lattor
half pericd will bo possible, only on this grcundwork
b. Expansion of Export Trado
It is highly dusirable that self-supporting eqeromy be achbeved
as carly as possible. The scale of oxpcrts will in the final um
analysis detormino our future standard of living ani levol of
proluction. During the present transitional petind the in-
creaso in export will rosult in so much increase in the imports
of food er industrial raw materials. In view of theso facts,
enphasis should bo laid on exports frem the beginning and posi-.
tivo measures takon to oxpand ex ort. In this conjunction, it
is absclutely imperative that in view cf overseas demand and from
the view rint cf raising fereign curreney yield emphasis be
transferre r  ually from textiles to the products of heavy and
chonical inlustris.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
-27-
c. Prcducticn increase of power, coal, and aron and 
Improvement ona strenghening of transportation.
In order tc ccnvert the industrial structure into that pre
dominated by hoavy ani chomical industries and to increase mining
and'manufacturing production, the recovery of basic industries
must be pushed forward.
That is to say, overhauling and recovery
in power, steel and transportation must be carried out on a prio-
rity basis. Spocial offorts should be nade with rospect to
eloctricity.
d. Increase of Focd production.
With respect to incroase of fecl producticn, the expected
increase in the pepulation und improverent in the diet would in-
creaso the food requiremont. To save the meagre import fund,
indigonous prcducticn should be stepped up by taking necessary
measures with regard tc production ircrease and allocatich of
livescock population, lcnd improvement, .etc.
o. Restcration nd Preventior of. offects of Nataral
cicnEers.
 rospect to building programs for rehabilitation ex
surial facilities, in view of the yearly increasing
isae uo to land devastation and inadequate repairs, stress
shcul? bo laid on the rehabilitation and provention or eliminat-
ich uf disasters. It. is essontial at least to prevent destruct-
ion f this land due to yoarly increasing natural disastors.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
2838
IL. OURLINB OF THE FAAN
1. Soale of Self-Sustaining Economy.
According to the estimate of the Population Forecast Sub-Committee
of Government Statistics Committee our population wquld amount to 87,6 ,000
as of 1 September 1953. It means an increase of 7,968,000 (867%) within five
years after September 1948 when our population was 80,700,000 or an increase
of 32 per cent compared with the average population of 66,330,000 during
the period betwecn 1930 to 1934. Future inorease will not be at so high
a rate as 22 per cent as in the last year in view of the recent gradual
decrease in the rate of natural increase of population and yet thore will
be anmual increases a shown in tho following table%
TABLE
Estimate of Future Population
(Population Forecast Sub-Committec, Government Statistics Committee.)
Total
Rate of
population
Birth rate
Death rate
natural
Unit: 1,000
0/00
0/00
increese
0800
1949
82,338
32,69
.14.24
18.45
1950
83,772
30.86
14.03
16.83
1951
85,125
29.53
13.83
15.70
1952
86,403
28.21
13.62
14.59
1953
87,663
27.77
13.41
14.36
What then is the scale of production necessary to fecd such a popula-
tion?
After a careful examination on the basis of the ahove cxplainiod basic
principles, this Committee has roached the conclusion that lovels as shown
in Table 4 below vould be reasonable for the scale and structure cf c self-
supporting economy which will enable a ratianal cconomic ciroilntim.
TABLE

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE 4.
Econemic Scale and Structure for 1953
1953 (A)
1949(B)
1930 -1934 (C)
National income (%)
129.1
97.2
100.0
132.8
129:1
4-
Berldmmake
129.9
Standard ef living (%)
89.9
69.2
100.0
Mtdingrand manufacturing
(Production level) (%)
133.9
74.0
100.0
180.9
133.9
Mining
(Production level)(%)
159.3
127.5
100.0
124.9
159.3
Coal
(Thousand tons)
50,000
42,000
31,173
119.1
160.4
Manufacturing (%)
(Production level)
130.0
65.8
100.0
1976.
130.0
Ordinary Più iron
3,200
1,700
1,251
188.2
255.8
(Thousand tons)
Finished ordinary cteel
(
11
)
3,050
1,930
2,195
158.9
1390
Machinery
(Stcel consumption)
1,659
959
780
173.0
212.7
Cotton yarn
(Thousand potrds)
760,000
341,300
1,157,965
222.7
65.6
Raw silk
(Thousand bales)
279,335
156,687
723,515
178.3
38.6
Staple fibro
rayen yarn
(Thousand of Founds)
390,000
137,322
82,417
284.0
473.3
Caustic soda
(Thousand tons)
340
140
89
243.0
380.
Ammoniun sulphate
(
1"
)
1,535
1,000
417
153.5
368.3
Agricultura, Forost &
aquatic production
(Promiuction lovol) (%)
110.6
91.8
100.0
120.5
110.6
Agriculture
(Production levol) (3)
105.9.
90.2
100.0
117.3
105.9
Rice
(Thousnnd kokus)
66,33
61,145
61,030
109.3
109.6
Whreat & othere
1!
25,095
20,343
20,582
123.4
121.9
Potasocs
(elklor kans)
2,606
2,248
898
115.9
290.2
Marine products
(Froduction lovel) (%)
124
101.1
100.0
123.5
124.9
Forestry
(Production levol)
(5)
110.0
102.8
100.0
10720
110.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
The sigo of intornational payment necossary for achieving this lovi 
be about 1:58 billion dollers as shown in tho following table
TABLE 5.
Intornational paymont for 1953.
dollars
(In million )
Balancc in torms
Balance in terms
ofgoods
of currency
Import
1,581
1,581
Export for 1953
1,511
1,062
for 1952
417
Non-trede payments belance
102
102
Net balance
 32
0
This size of internetioncl payments is 72% in import and 87% in export
compared wit!: that for 1930 - 1935 lovel in both import and export. Tho
low perconta e of import is, as will be steted later, duo to tho prosent
trade torms unfavourable f r us. Non the less, it indicatos that our
dependency on the f reign oconomy will be roduoed.
The import of 1.58 billion dollars includes both import for domestic
consumption and that of raw materials to be processod for export. When the
former is computed as basic impert, it will amount to 1.l7 billion dollars.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
Tablc 6s: Basic impert and import of raw materials for export for 199
(In minion
Basic import
Import of raw
Total
naterials for export (C)
Main itome of basio 
Itom
import
(A)
(B)
T B/A
C/A
651.6
635.9
0.98
(15.8)
0.02
Food
4,879 (1,000 N.T.) in wheat quiv
386.2
1.00
Staple food
380.1
135.5
13605
1000
Oil and oil-seeds 135.5
(15.8)
0.57
800,000 tons of edible salt
27.8
12.0
0.43
Salt
412,000 MT.
30.9
38009
1.00
Sugar
44.3
44.3
1:00
Fertilizer
27.0
27.0
1.00
Peedstuff
16.0
0.36
265.6
0.64
150.4
Tatal import = 1,824,808 bales
cotton
249.7
74.9
0.30
174.8
0.70
(574,400 balos for donoettc conaumption)
Total import - 474,520 balea
W00l
85.4
59.7
0.70
25.7
0.30
(331,700 balos for dedmstio conantaticn)
S.P. = 100,000 tons, B.P710
Others
80.9
15.8
0.20
65.1
0:80
linter = 9,000 tons.
Total impert of hap
Industrial matorials
541.3
330.5
0.70
160.8
0.30
(716,543 for doe
Total irmort
80.0
64.1
0.80
15.9
0.20
for don
102.8
102.8
1,00
80.6
040
199.8
119.2

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
4852
38.3
0.79
9.9
0.21
Total import of crude rubber
Rubber & hide
= 70,000 tons (52,500 tona for do
consumption)
Total irport of hide = 32, 300 to
(27,000 tons for donestic dons
Chemicals and raterials
for chemicals
34.3
18.1
0.53
16.2
0.47
34.6
15.6
0.45
19.0
0.55
Timber
37.4
18.2
0.49
19.2
0.51
Others
Grand Total
1,581.2
1,166.8
0.74
424.4
0.25

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
The bise of import of raw mate
the rate of foreign currenay re
of raw materials necessary for the expapt or 1,5ig 
410 million dollars and that the rate of foreigi currepdy
Since the rate was 76% before the war and is at présant
seems to be rather high. However, thie rate wouldunot be
plan to make up for a fall in export of raw silr by the
manufaotured goods.
In terme of por capita income, the scale of this gelf-supp
97% of 1930 - 34 level. Labour productivity (industria1) 1s only
level when expressed in index based on the 1930 - 34 distribubitn f e
among industries but is l00% of the same level or alrost in line vit the
whon/values of 1934 - 36 are used as weight. The consumption level
/added
forence between consumption and income means that the rate of imtestmen
The rate of saving and investment was below the ndrmal in 1934 - 36 widt
a period of unusual deprossion. When it is essumed the prapensity to my
at 1934 - 36 lovel, this target is not so difficult to attain.
2. International Payments.
(Unit: $ million)
TABLE 19.
Dovelopment of Internationel Paymant
Noń-trade
Import
Export
Non-trade
payments
revenue
1949
1,005
599
75
19.
6
787
99
1950
1,242
55
132
999
1951
1,407
96
171
1952
1,488
1,252
150
1953
1,581
1,511

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
However, it takes some time for export shipments to be
12
and as the tihe gap is considerable when as at present
change of world durroncies is vory linited. International:pty
of money if these allowances are made are estimated as follows:
(Unit: $.million)
TABLE S.
Ovorall International Payrents
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
Fund roceseary
for import
1,005
1,242
1,407
1,488
1,581
Export procoeds 420.
693
1,059
1,168
1,479
(1) Frovious yoar's
export
120
299
393
333
417
oxport
3C0
394
666
845
1,062.
Excoss reccipts in
invisible trade
paymento
56
63
77
84
102
Debit balanco
529
486
271
236
0
Romaris: 1. As to the export proccods, considoring tho difficulty of froo
oxcivinge of curroncics and the timo gap botwoen the shipment of exporte and
roccipt of paymont, ctc. half the shipment of exports in 1949 and 1950 is
astimated as being usablo as funds for 1949 nnd 1950 respectivoly, two thirds
for 1951 and 1952 respoclivoly and 70 per cont for 1953.
2. As to the base of price, Oct. - Nov. 1948 curront prico is usode
Howover, in the final year decrcaso of price by 25% in import and 15ß in oxport
is oxpootcd. Curront prico of Jume is 15% lower than Cat. - Nov. 1948 ourront
price.
3. Debit belanco is slightly high in 1950 and-192. However, that
of 1950  i ht bo raduced if foroign currency ccahes mnd bank cncdita?ehigh noy
Japan has re mobilizod to fill it. Table 9 teIdw showe the balanee of
ment by trade area in the initial and rinal year. Althdugh theh
payment gradually improyes, the axoese of import over
to dollar areas in the fimal year will be no less than ão m
an astounding figures compared with the pre-war leyml.
very very strorg  ctor which calls fer a Trèe exshange

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 21. Balance of Trade by Trade Area (Unit: & million)
666
GRAND TOTAL:
Grand
Total
599
100% 1.005
100% (-) 408 1.511 100% 1,581
35958
5998
280
27.9 (+) 76
944
62.5
702
Asia
Others
241.
40.2
723
72.1 (2) 482
567
37,5
870
55.5(-)
DOLLAR AREA:
43.0 (-) 4
Total
170
28.4
653
64.9 (-) 485
380. 21.9 678
Asia
27
2227
4.5
539
(-3.811(-) 12
30
2.0
54
3.4(-)2
Others
143
23.9
614
61.1 (-) 471
300
19.9
624
39.6 (-) 324
STERLING AREA:
Totel
203
33.9
192
18.1 (4) 21
363
24.0
378
23.9(-)15
11.6 (4) 17
Asta
150
25.0
1 105
10.5 (+) .45
200
13.2
183
Others
53
8.9
77
7.6 (-) 24
163
10.8
195
12.3 (-) 32
OTHER AREA:
Total
226
37.7
170
16.9 (+) 56
213
54.1 525
33.1 (+) 291
Asin
181
30.2
139
13.7 (+) 142
714
47.2
466
29.5 (+) 246
3.6 (+) 45
45
7,5
31
3,2 (+) 14
104
6.957
It"ors
b. Imports
The import of 1, 581, 000,000 for the finel yoar - as explainod lator,
as this amount prosupposos the roduction of unit prico by a little over 20 per cont it 
$1,990,000,000 in terms of Oct. - lov, 1943- is 2.3 tinos as compred with tho actual 
/current price
620,00,000 for 1948 (Jop. to Dou.) and £7 per cont as ccmparod with that of tho baso
(including tho import frem Koron and Formosa). As rogerds the porcentege of pach ito:
imports, industricl rav nntorials were 43 porcont in 1942, 53 per cent in 1949 and 62
pur cont in the fial yoar vhich is a. 1ittlc highor than 57 por cont for 1930 - 1934.
the other hand, fond wns 56 per cent in 1940, 47 per cont in 1949 and 39 por cent in.
the final year ahowing a gradual docrease; even so, it is a little ligher' than 38 per o
for the bnsio years as shom in the followiny tablo due to tho có parative deorease of
on foreign nations.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
36
Import Struature
TABLE 10.
(Per cent Distribution)
1949
1948
1930-1934
Classification
(Jan. to
Doo.)
42.7
53.2
61.2
Industrial matetial
7.6
4.5
5.9
Metalic minerals
0.1
0.2
37.9
Machinery
26.4
22.4
2405
37.9
Textiles
11.6
8.0
11.0
12.0
Petroleum & Coal
2.1
1.6
3.4
1.6
Chemicals
392
46.6
55.7
37.6
Foodstuffs
26.3
29.2
28.4
X 49.7
Foods
5.2
6.4
3.8
Fertilizer & Foeds
8.6
0.8
11.0
5.4
Oil & Fats
0.8
1.6
0.2
0.1
Others
X includos foeds.
As to imports it is particulerly noted thnt those from East Asia-are incroasing
gradually from 14 per cont in 1948 to 28 per cent in 1949 and 44 por cont in 1953
In 1953, for instancc, the whole amount of inported iron aro, pia iron and goal i
to be importod from China, India and the Philippines and 54 per cent of walt and
1,000 tons of staple food (rice) fron East Asia. Other wise, we would contimus tasbuy
at Agh pricos duc to froight and other roasons and our inports would havo to bo wibkil
unbalanccd in areal distribution.
It is ostimated that the dogree of our dependence on the United states, whtch
shom a remarkable iucrease since tho ond of war, will gradually docreage wing to
incroasu in the volune pf trado with East Asia in the future. Evan so,
part of food (90% of wheat and moro than half of fartilimer) would have to
from the United States and 38 per cent of ferrous. end non-ferrous etal
of raw cotton and 31 por cost of petboloum produsts would have to be
none other ther the United States oven in the final yeary

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
it ws donoluded ht 40 por ntof 
unlted Statos ven in the final Jer.
Ihéreadè in import of fooda an toxtile nctorirle solely
convortibility.
C. Exporta
Eports aro planned to bo increased fron 3600,000,000 in 1949 to
in the final yoar ($1,640,000, 000 at 0ct. - Nov. 1948 current pr10e).
incépaso of a littlo Icss than sir timos as compared with tho actual ang
§280,000,000 in 1948 (Jan. to Dec.), but this is only duo to extrame
war oxporte. This figuro, thorofore, is only 37 por cont of the smount or
2
exports.
As nontionnd in the scotiono doaling with basig prinoiplos, tho prospeot
of future oxport would ultimatoly decide tho levol of our oconomic rehabiltt
The export structure is plenned as shown in tho following table
Export Structuro
TABLE 1.
(Per cent Diatribution)
1930-1934
1948
1949
Calssification
(Jan. to Doc.)
57.0
61.3
54.0
52.0
Textile goode
Mnobinery & too!
(inoluding ship and
4.3.
5.0
14.0
21.5
Fölling stock)
6.6
includod in
3.8
6.2
Miscollanocus goods
itam "Others"
2.1
4.3
40
4.5
Procolain & class
2.2
3.1
1.6
3.4
Chemicaleodicinos
Agricultural & carino
products (exrluafng canned
3.9
4.6
3.1
9.1
goods)
2.2
included in
0.6
2.3
Pepor & paper goots
itan "Others
Canned foods& processed
2.2
included in
1.4
foods
iton "foods"
1.8
inoludod in
2.6
1.7
Rubber oed
iton "Others
17.7
21.7
Otherp

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.95)
Romarkablo differences from presértir epon
 nt is to bo moduood to one fourth an
of woolen gooda la to bo incroasud a little loms thnn four
little loss thin throo tinos although the peroantago ofersila
1s not affected so groatly a that of indigidual itemal ad
mactinory end tools is to be groatly incronsed in pakoo of
It ricans that exports of the products of light ind stry aro
stiuted by tho producte of heavy and charical industrios 
and chonical industrialization vill bo pronoted to that axtout 
The above montionor plan in based on thc assumption thrtth
for raw silk and cotten goods will docroaso and the overaous dorand
tools a and chenicals will incrensc. It may also bo paid thatait on
to re min the talanco of peymont by incroesing the ates forogine
rocoipts.
As it is plannod to give xports first priority thirouzhout those 
the perconta o of export goods as a pinat the vhole donostic praduotign
ably high as ehom in the followday table.
TABLE 12. Porecat ge of  ort. Goods as. against Domostic Produotion
Kind of
Export
B
Proctuction
Protucts
Unit
Production
(B)
in 1953 (A)
1n 1949 (A)
(S)
Cotton
223,500
.65.5
760,000
52.000
1,000 1b. 341,300
frarn
68.00031000
Werstod
8,411
64
13,041
n
yarn
Spun
50,000
woolon
1,525
7.8
1,000 1b. 19,565
yarn
Rayon
79,822
63,858
80
180,000
126,0007
yern
20,680
22,902
110
36,879
Rau silk
Stool
1,920
610
31.8
3,Q50
materials 1,000 ton.
21.8
5,300
610
2,800
Coment
19
600
4,300
Plate
350
15.6
glass 1,000 0 80 2,250
23,625
2.1
2,000.000
1,000 10.1,100,000

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
TaßL 13. Import and port of Sarzices and Lutmmgdhlés.
(Ualti
1949
1950
1951
1952
Current revemo
Rreight
27,548
55.565
85,780
231,506
Insurance
1,000
1,800.
2,700
4,000
6,000
Foreigper's consump=
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000.
tion in Japan
0thora 40,499
40,009
35.000
35,000
35,000
35,000
To:al
75,047
99,365
131,480
179,506
252,104.
Current expendituro
Harino
transportation
8,602
20,103
33,254
53,926
86,534
Japanose
overscas
Consunption
Government
1,000
15,000
20,00
40,000
60,000.
overseas
Faparment
Others
741
1,000
1,500
2,000
3,500
Total
11,343
36,103
54,754
95,926
150,034
Balanco
55,704
63,262
76,732
83,580
102,070
Among the capital itons, foroignors investmonts are catimated to inerease
from $5,0007000 in the initial yoer to $50,000,000.
3. Nationel Income.
He con rasp the trend of national econoay in its entirety through production
distribution an spending of national incona. In othar worde, we are ablo,
through thoss factors, to got a full picture of the process of aconoaic ro-
habllitation and to clarify how our econony ciroulates.
a. Forriation or National Incone.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
Real National Inoome produoed.
Planned
1949
95
Nat 1 Poti of
Ratl
Pot._of
incomo
base
inoome base
income basd
(Smakluib) (year
(Smillidn) year
(shill.) your
Forcstry
Agriculture &
Marine
Mining
Elootric & Gas 402
1,941
3,151
190
270
102.7
104.2
227.1
95.1
97.4
2,316
4,755
230
370
464
113.5
124.3
242.9
247.0
262.1
1,852
2,678
184
212
375
90.3
99.5
61.9
211.9
82.3
Bldg. & Construc-
Comaunications 1,333
tion
Cormerco
Othors
1,865
1,549
524
102,7
155.2
32.3
76.1
1,751
2,314
2,140
582
114.1
203.1
113.7
95.0
1,162
1,790
1,340
363
71.2
144.8
79.9
55.8
2,252
2,036
862
510
Total Nat'l Incomo
12,230
78.3
97.2
170,22
14,922
129.1
97.7
123,60
2.956
86.2
71.0
104,20
11,556
Per capita Income
136.39
NOTE: (1) Al1 prices cxprossod in 19 - 34 pricos.
(2) Income percentago of the rost recent year possible was taken for the former
period. In principle, tha ineomo porcontage for 1934 -36 was takan for 1s
becauso the avorage anount of production during thoso yoare was about the sant
as thnt expected for 1951 and ccause it wes assumed that the price
stoucturo for both periods aro similar. It is assunod that the inoors
porcontage will declino gradually thoroafter as production increises.
National income in 1940 was 6% of thc 1930 = 34 poriod, but in the firat yoar of
the plan it inorenses to 97% aru? to 129% in tho final yoar. In othor wards, 1t can
be said tliat it goos up about 7% - 9% onch yoar with slight lovolling off periods in
botwoon., By 1953, it is expectod to recover to 97%. (per capita)
Tho plan atming at industrialisation, ospeoially in tho heavy and chemical in-
custries, can clocrly bo soen from tho following industrial structure shown in po
contage.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
Industrial Struoturo in pproentag
1930=34
1949
28.0
6
4.6
3.7
1.5
4.4
Construction
7..5
12.1
19.5
16.6
17.6
100.0
10050
Total
b.
Distribtuion of National Incona.
The distribution of national income must be equitables Thi
mean, howeve,
mean, howover, that the income of all individuals must be equats
what the present distortod distribution of ineke meaulting fron th
as the inequality botween the farrors and the urban populatiom-
the 1930 - 34 period mst bo corrected at all coate. In vhew of the
acoumulation, it is necessary that the distribution be such as will
ings. Those two demands are in a way conflicting with cach otho
attain
as equitable a distribution of incon
however, we have sought to
vithin the limito permitting acoumulation suffisient to guarantee 
and in principls aye aimod apecifically at changing tho proportioh of
of the 1934 - 36 period which is regarded as having boen comparatively norpal
This may bo sean in' tho following table.
TABLE 16.
National Dividand (in *1,000,000)
19303
1949
1953
Income
Pot.
Incore
Pot.
4,197
37.4
7,065
47.4
Earned incorw
34.6
50.2
5,170
Proprietors' incoo 5,634
1. Agriculture,
21.0
2780
186
1,696
forestry & marino 2,357
2. Other industrics
3277
29.2
2,390
16.0
Others
1,399
1,399
12.4
100.0
11,2301000

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.93)
This is duo, of aourses to the rio
tie to the advande lu the structure
the propeiatary inonmo, employment propor
in tlating incone is corrootod. As for thar héoe (m
to income, oto.), it is phánned to raise it above the présent.
in order to guarantoe tho distribution of norma? profits to meah ine
nake she proguromont of capital smoothor, in view of necessity of bapital
Exprossod in terms of por capita inoore, the incone-per farm housghol
1930 - 34 was 265 yen (including income from secondary businosass) but in
year of the plen this will rise to 380 yon, almost equivalent to the inoo
1934 = 36. The lovol of consumption corresponding to this wis 9
Th crefore, corpared to pro-war, living of farm houscholds shouldb
ably onsior. The income per workor in 1930 - 34 was 470 yon. In the prus
higher than the base year. Ascordingly, the living oxpensce or the wurkem nlho
only puarertee tho tompo of the rise of the level of consumption but shoul
possible soro savinge.
It might be addod hero that the distribution of income will return to thd ld4
36 loval, in principle, in 1953, but this can be said to indidate that the 
covary of incono will be somowhat retardod couparod with that or/structuro whigh
/pribe
bo achiovod in 1961.
c. Sponding of National Incomo.
A part of tho yonrly netional incore is consured in publid fimanosa à
used to form capital, and nost of the rerainder is consured as fundd for livi
oxponsos. For examplo, in 1930 - 34, 24% of national inbono was allotted 
tion funde. of course, the quostion of hou naticnel incorw is used differs ces
sidorably according to the policies and the economic conditions existing at that
tino. In this plan, the proportion of capital formatton has been plmnod.rather
bigh since particuler onphasio has beon laid on tho accumulation of capital
This is seon in the following table.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
Balance of Mationel Inccnee Etc.
1930-34
1949
Anount
Pct.
Amount
Pot.
Amount
(Snill.)
(¥100
(mill.)
mill.)
National Gross Products:
1. National income
11,556
89.3
26,238
85.5
14,922
08.9
2. Indirect taxation
808
6.2
3,229
10.
1,028
3. Dopresiation
527
4.1
40g
1.8
780
4. Discrepancy
-55
-0.
817
27
-60
Total
12,986
100.0
30,€92
100.0
16,790
100.0
National expenditure:
Nationakisxpendatmeer
expen
1. Rttimão conauner
expenditure
9,586.74.0
18.824
61
11,389
628
2. Industrial invostmant
695
5.4
3,800
12.4
1,892
11.3
3. Housing construction 2911
221
632
2.1
251
15
4. Governuent Exponditure
2,812
21.7
9.771
31.8
3,657
21B
5. Not-Raraign Invostmont
297
2.3
-1,280
-42
39
0.2
6. Less (transfor payment,
govarnment debts redenp-
tion).
-735
-5.7
-1,075
-3.5
-438
2.6
Total
12,946
100.0
30,92
100.0
16,790
100.0
NOTE:
(1)
Figures for 1930 -34 end 1953 expressod in 1930 -34 prices.
Figuree for 1949 expressod in Nov., 1948 price levels.
(2)
Proportion of government expondituro, consumption and investment to national
incomo (1l,556,000,000 yen) excoods that/national expenditure as fellows:
/of
Congunors
1930-34
1948
1953
oxpenditure
(5)
(8)
(%)
Consumers
exponditure
61.9
71.7
76.3
Industrial
invostrent
6.0
14.4
12.7
Housing
construction
2.5
2.4
1.7
Governnent
expenditure
24.3
37.2
2404
(3)
As my e soon in the above table, tho figures do not tally with the
provicusly nontioned not national income because of double items as 1
tantion and because the figures have beon expresded in terme of er
hetional product including roplaceront invostments.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
The proportion of industrial investment is 12%,in
year, and 11% in the last year, of the national incomel
the part of Government expenditure in the nature of inves
is added to industrial investment, the proportion of capital
accumulation will be as follows.
TABLE 18. Proportion of Capital Accumulation
1930-34
1949
1953
% of over-
% of naticaag ofof% of % of % oi
all proàuc-
haoncome O.P. N.I. O.P. NI
tion
Private indust-
12.3 14.5 11.2 127
rial investment
5.4
6.0
Housing construosio
tion
2:3
2.5
2.7 3.1
2884
Financial invest-
ment
4.0
7.3 8.5
9.2 10.5
21.625.821.087.6
Total
11.7
NoTE: Operating expenses of public works projects, flotation of
bonds and local revenuc sources in temporary works prodects of the
special accounts and local finances are included in financial in-
vestment.
During the 1930-34 period, the capital accumuletion, includ-
ing financial invustments, was 12% of the total production. It
must be noted, of course, thet this percentage is slightly lower
than under normal conditions, in vicw of the fact that the period
1930-34 includes endabnormal period of depression. But even then,
the fact that the corresponding percentcges in the firet a& final
years under the plan are 22% and 19%, respedtively, cr 9 lstribated
to a rather high estimete of the degreu f capital aecumulation.
Since the balance of the everall budget in the lltial poriod of
the plan is attained by increased taxes, the weighp of finanees in
natlonal ee nomy is rather high compared with pre-war or the finnl

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.92)
plan A.ax
on personal conaumption cutlaya
 oonsaderably less than in pre-war. this
ly ratorn so normal in the latter years
proportion of capital cccumulation will hotged
As a result, this proportion of consumution.pu
Tower than pre-war in the final planhediyedt.
Since coneumption ánd invostment piana wi
another section, a brief explanation pt the zi
given next.
As the proportion of capital accumuletion is mardy
capite 1noome 1s 97% of 1930-34 level, but conaumption 1
90% of the same level. It is planned to fiil threp
pensity to save raised above the l930-34 level, raised
self-investment by enterprises, and government investment
expended as compared with that in the past
a. Overall funds demand and supply progrem
The balance of nati nal gross produota andi
penditure shows the flow of grods and services  But, in
make this flow circulate as plannda, the corresponding bver
funde Lemand and supply program is necossory. The five y
brogram wiil be as fllows.
TaskE 19. Over-ell funds dumana and supply
(UA4t:*100,000
1948 1949 1950 1951
of funde
1,7001.5002400

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
300
380
380
devernment Investment,
180
705
Government investment
180
69
Redemption of govern-
636
50
ment debts.
1,750
1,7701.800
Counterpert funds
Inuuatrial rohabilita-
700
741
tion
Purchase of governmont
270
447
503
bonds
780
582
Others
Total
4.398
4,935
4.745
4.839
6:09
Ifcrease of currency
937
issue
Dumana of funde
Private Investment
4,060
3,852
3,894
3,885
4018
Leens by financial
3,380
1,967
1,546
1,949
institutions
Direct investment
680
780
1,020
1,270850
Government invest-
69
5
169
ment
1,036
1,323
497
Counter part funds
1.075
5.03
797
Guvernmont funde
Nati. nal treasury
780
270
447
295
233
350
Local govornment
444
Otuere
200
136
Reserve
5.335
4.538
To

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.93)
Note: At the prioes es f Nov., 1938.
In 1949, nly half of the total supply of fuhay d
savings by indiviluals ard enterprises. The rest letsuppl
olpally y the Bounterpart Funds. But, the proportion o
savings will gralually increase end, in the last yeat 
the supuly excluding govurnment investment will entirely aehe
national savings. Savias (excluding enterprise retention)
390 o: Netione1 1nc me in 1949, but to 11.3% of Natronal 1mgo
1952. mis rate f savi: s is equal to that in 1933-34. s th
Income is eonsilcrobly bel w the level of the same-period, it wild
be ao sasy to chieve thin level of savings.
Injustrial investment depends little on direot lnves
mistly on loans from financial institutions. Moreover, aino th
part of saunterpart Funds t. oc used for purohaso of goverpment bp
ctc. will actually so through finenoial institutions, stronggoredt
contrei will be required ln orler to direct these funde to the
essential ficilities in important industries. In the budget for 1949,
the government funts are 50.3 billlon yen. In this program, publio
investrent sutsia the budget is taken into account and itemised a
"others" in deman! of funds. After 1949, however, this 1temoill
discppear.
he funls prearam may be said to be the mainstay for the 
coution  I the eouromic program. And for the efficient implementatigh
of the funds program, the savings by the people are essential

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
4.Produstion program
Mining and manufacturing
In order to bring about "a self-sustaining bgonomy
makes possible a rational econamic circulation" rationalis
tion and further expansion of industrial production are nades
sary first of all. Furthermore that such development.muat
espocially in the heavy and chemical industries is,a marle
cept which appears throughout this:plan.
When setting up a production plan under such a poliot the
first problem that arisee 1s the fact that such a plan must n
exceed the limits.of capital accumulation. In drawing up thia,
plan, we have tried to confine it within the limibs of ompital
accumulating capacity depending on the policies followed. we
feel that it would be more difficult in the early period of the
plan rather than in the latter.
The second point which must be taken into consideration is
to utilize existing facilities as much as poastble with an em-
phasis upon repair in order to make the most effective use of
limited materiels or to lay emphasis on those mhien yield high
est returms on investment. This does not mean, however, the
more restoration of tho industrial structure of fapilitiea to
the pre-war. Considering their relation to their competitive
power in international markets, steps must be devised to puah
ahead the modermization of the facilities and to advanee the
industrial stmucture.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
The third bpestion is the prospect for inor
of fuel end power. The greater tho proportlon of
chemical industries. in the industrial structure, the
For the pr
the demand for fuel and power inoreases.
incroase of coal or dovelopment of hydroelectric power
Th
there exist limitations of materiala, fumds and time.
fore, the tempe of the dovelopment of industriee must 
within these limits.
TaBLE 20. Planned Production In Mining and Induatry
Planned
Actual
Unit
Itom
1949
19531930-4
Coel
1,C00 tons, 42,000
50,000
21,173
277,082
Domestic
Xi1olitre 225,000 325,000
orude oil
rillion 
5,870
8,700
3,292
Electrical pover
Electricel oker
(thernol)
a
18
30,830
36,710
15,267
(y1ro)
36,700
45,410
18,559
36,893
Ordinary pig-iron
Ordinary steel
Aluminum
Electro-copper
Cement
Totel
1,000 tons
1,000 cases
11
n
19
11
11
n
18
11
n
1,700
1,920
2,800
2,250
65
25
15,300
3,200
3,050
4,300
60
90
1,251
2,680
2,155
3,637
73
1
1,17
1,990
1,900
862
59
Plate glass
Ammonim sulphate
Almonium sulphate
1,000 tons
1,000 tons
1,000
1,000
1,707
1,535
417
417
979
979
Calciun cyannaride
Caustia soda
fertiliser total
n
280
140
450
340
200
92
89
137
250
Soda ash
dllion ba.
18
11
1,100
110
2,000
240
1,639
Paper
Worsted yarn
Cotton yarn
Wool yorn
Rayon yarn
Staple fibor
Rav silk
1,000 1bs.
bales
f1
11
t
n
341,300
156,687
13,047
19,565
79,822
57,500
275389
210,000
180,000
760,000
50,000
68,000
1,1571965
723,515
93,741
81,170
1247
280,517
139600
20,455
42,780
40361
6,187
Tho changes in tho induatrial atruotura aa gomt
the pre-war and the present, mey be seen in the fell

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
TacE 21. Industrial Make-up In 1953 (Un1t %)
Comparedto 193-34/ Compared to
159.3
1534
Mining Industry
130.0
249.77
Mfg. Industry
66.4
are.8
1. Textile
196.2
251.5
2. Matals
235.3
890:9
S. Machinery
157.8
228.6
4. Ceramios
251.4
308.9
123.4.
204.5
6. Foodsturfs
153.4
144,5
7. Misc
133.9
227.1
Overall production
index
Next, a brief oxplanation of the major industries shall
be given.
(1) Fucl and Power.
In viey of the fact that emphasis has been placed on heave
and chemical industries under this plan, the supply of power
became one or the most important fastors to regulate the tompo
of incraased production. Therefore, the greatest emphasis
has been pleced on the development of electrioal power re
sources ans the increased production of coal. In the upward
ourve of suppiying power, coal is placed high in the earlier
period and leotrical power in the later period.' In other
words,  s lanned to meet future increase in the energy
requiromen  lectrical power.
To ov supply of heat energy under this plan is
given in  anls below. It must be noted, however, that
althought sup asis has been placed on inoreasing the

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
T 51
production of heat energy, in the final year of the plan, the
per capita consumption would still be less than one-eighth i
that in the United States in 1947 and less than one-Fourth of
that in the United Kingdom. This single fact alone bespeaks
clearly the present phase of industrialization in our country.
TABLE 22. Overall Supply of Energy and Level of Consumption
(Unit Coal equivalent 1,00o ton)
Your
Coal
Lig-
Fetro-
Fire-
Chan
Hydro- Total Popu-
Per capi-
nito
leun
wood
coal
elec
lation
ta coal equix
trioi-
(1,000)
(tona) lant
ty
1949
34,800 .1,750 2,830
4,0701,980 22,800 68,230 82,338 0.83
(51,0) (2.6) (4.1)
(6.0) (2.9) (33.4)(100.0)
1950
38,500 1,950 3,760
4,140 1.980 23,700 74,030 83,772 0.89
(52.9) (2.6) (5.1)
(5.6) (2.7) (32.1) (100.0)
1951
41.700 2,150 4,040
3,990 1,980 24,700 78,530 85,125 0.98
(53.0) (2.7) (5.1) ( 5.0) (2.5) (31.7) (100.0)
1952
44.700 2,350.4450
3,790 1,980 26,000 83,270 86,403 0.97
(53.5) (2.8) (5.3) (405). (2.4) (31.5). (100.0)
1953
46,300 2,500 4,900
3,690 1,980 27,500 86,870 87,663 0.99
(53.2) (2.9) (5.6)
(4.3) (2.3) (31.7) (100.0)

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
52
Fourthly, it is n=ccssary to consider to what extent
yearly imports of industrial raw matoriels are possibla.
In this respect there uxist quantitative ana qualitative
limit.tions arisins from the outlook on oxport and foroign
aid, existonce of trude restrictions arising from the
world demand surrly situation.
On the basis of the above basio principles, and as-
sumptiens, we heve arawn up the follewins production plan.
Accoriins to this plan, the goneral production indsex rises
from 74% in 1040 to 88%, to 102% to 119% and to 134%, e
yearly increass et the rato of 14%-17%, with slight
levalling off poriods in botwoon.
(2) Motal Industry.
Although thero are some who entortain possimistic views
conccrnins the future or the steal industry, we helieve that
providina it is possible to import rew matoriale from Aeia,
overrll sogrephic conditions ere not necessarily unfavorable.
Accoriingly, the iren end steel industry is inaispensable in
order to cuarantee the normel dovel opment of the machino
imdustry. Tekin, this situation into considoration, wo

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
have placed great weight on the increased production
and havo aimed at a p1g-1ron production of 3,20b,000
ordinary steel product1on of 3,050,000 tons in 1953 
amount, it is plannod that 720,000 tons will be exported
the fom of machinery or rolled stoal and that the remaind
of 2,300,00o tons wil1 bo consumed domestically. When we
tako into account tho domands for econamic rehabilitation and'tho
deyelopmont of the machino industry, this domestic demand can
be called rather crall in amount, though the military denand
no longer uxist. Figured on a per capita basis, thia ia anly
80% of the 1930-34 Ievol. But campared with the actual pro
duction last year, this is an incroase of about two and a hem
times anu is quite a high rate of prcduction: increase.
(3) Machine ixlustry.
Considerablo impertance is attached to the fostbring of
macl ins industry in view of tho fact that its future as ex-
port it duatry is vory much promising and the domestic demand
for machinea is great in connection with tho rohabilitation
and modernization of scononiy. Spocial attention is givon to
the dovolopment cf machine tool, ball-bearing, moasuring
machine, pracision and forging machine which will be the
n
groudwork for the development of machine industry. As the
result, the preductien index of machine industry will be
2-3 timon that fer the base perlod. Generally ppeaking.
no expension of facilities is needed except in precision
machines as far as cepacity is'concerned. For its deve-
lopment as export industry, it is essential to effect
rationalization by renovatton and
repair of machinery
and facilities, raise of technical level, reduction of
produstion cest, etc.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
(4) Chamical und ceramio industry.
Considorable amphasin han been placed onxthe theto
industry as a basic industry which supports tho deyeleppe
of export industries (e.g., caustic soda industry o
respond to the production of cherical fiber) and as an Induabry
which: greatly reduces nports of chemical products ahd ina
creases cur solf-sufricierey (o.g., inereasod productipedo
chemical fertilizer). Accordingly, the key industrios.are
the chemical fertilizer industry and soda industry. The
program relat ing to light chemical industries guch as organio
compounds, dyes and fats and olls, has been adjusted on the
assumptian that they will depend en, and develop in cen-
nection with, the above key industries. Special emphasis
has been placed upon production incroase of organic com
pons is as now fiel: of dovelopment opened up by the develop
ment f synthetis taxtiles ane plastics such as vinylon and
polinia.
In coraic industry, two or three-fold production in-
crease has been planned, taking into consideration the follow
ing factore. The major part of principal materials for
coramic industry can be supplied locally. Poroelain and
gless industry is vary much promising as export industry.
Cement and sheet glass are net only necessary for the re-
habilitation of the Japanese sconomy but also gradually
becomirig promising sxport items.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
(5) Textile Industry
Since textiles are supposed to account for more
or the total exports for some time to como, we naturally
had to place amphasim on the increascl production of tont
'export and to make the rilling of domestio demahas sego
Gonerelly speaking, of cource, the importanca or textilea
graduplly be shifted to the machine industry, but in view of
the feot that this industry was reduoed to a minimum size,
during the war, we have placed considerablo emphasis on the
restoration of faoilities during the five-year period of
the plan.
Although the rate of reoovery is only 66% of thd 
1930-34 poriod, it has increaeed more than two-fold when
compared with the sotyal production last year: The rete
of production iner ase or rayon, staple riber, woolbn yarns
and eynthetio textilus are ospecially marked. Furthermoro,
in the structure cr the textile industry itealf, more and
more omphasis nas been pl. aced on synthotio toxtilos in view
of the moyement of international markats and of the nocossity
of inoreasing self-surficioncy.
Frottet vispoint of increasing our self-sufficiency
es uc  po le and of minimizing the basic imports as
aration of tho need of modornizing
ohtxtent our agriculture

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
hava drawn up our plan with coneiderabl
creasing production. But, under the posust
finance, it is impossible to satisfy all demand
of tho fact thet agricultural invastment will have
indiroct and delayod offect on production and cannot
pond: on loans by city banks.
We havo, thurefore, drawn up a plan under wnfah
veatmont will bo made in whichover of inoreased applthat
of furtilizer (6 kan or 30 kg. por tan for rice ih 
final year) irrigation, land improvemeht, retpmatio
clearing of lund, eto. may contributo most afroctively to.
production incroase, so that the maximum use may be
of the limitad matorials and funds at our disposal. s
the result, the staple food production in the rinal yoar
will be us showm in Table 23 bel ow. Furthormore, tho rate
of yuarly incruase in production of agrieultural produots
will be 4 - 5 , production rising from 90 % of tha 1930 - 3
lovel in 1949 to 95 %, 98 %, 102 %, and 106 3.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
Production of apaple
Fiscal Year of 1
Items
Rioo
Wheat
Units
1,000
1,000
1,000,0001,000
koku
koku
Basic Amount:
Flanted Area
(in 1,000 cho)
2,908
1,561
978
Yield
59;395
20,082
1,424
(2.04)
(1.29)
(377)
Production Increase:
2,154
2,757
53
107
Increased ferti-
liser application
1,183
404
57
Crop-breeding
309
41
Disease Control
982
288
Irrigation
18
Soil Improvement/
2,027
931
6,660
4,421
110
132
Total
€6,056
24,503
1,534
806
Yield in already-
(2.27)
(1.57)
(406)
(366)
oultivated land
RecLaimed Land:
Area (in 1,000 cho)
5.4
81
78
50
Yield
774
592
181
85
Total Production:
Area (in 1,000 cho)
2,962
1,642
456
278
66,830
25,095
891
Yiela

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
NOTE: (1) Figures in paronthosas are yieldper t
Cererls are in koku and swost potatope
kan
(a) The basic yiald of soy beens Ingludegythe
incrcased yiald of the basic aroe T
yiuld per tan in 1048 was 0.721 koku
The modornization of agricul ture, limination of ali
its feudalistic el cments and raise of the living standard
is not ily dosired by the farmurs themsel vee but o l
matter of greet concern from thu stonapoint of the devalop
ment or the Japanose conony as a whole. Under this plan.
the modernization of agricul ture is limited by the central
target or sali-supporting cconomy and considered as secondary.
We have, however, givan considuration for sesuring that at
luest the first step teward this goal will bo takon. Th
other words, in connoction with mochanization, we have plan-
ned to bring about a change frem the presont individuel and
partial utilization of machinos by farmors to a systamatie
jeint utilizution end further to introduce efficient farming
methods accordins to type thrcugh incroased utilization of
domestic animls and through meohanization. For this pur-
posc, 38,0oo tons o stuel matorials have been allotted in
the first year, snd 74,0oo tons in the final yeer with
regara to utilization of domastic animals, it is planned.
in the fanal year, to inorease milking cows to 1.6 time.
drought and noat cattlo to 1.3 times, pigs to 7.9 timoa and

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
69
poultry to 2. times or the livestoc
1.5 tiuos in cattle equivalents compared with
(2) Fishins Industry.
Japan is surrounded cn ell siues by the sea and is yem
suited for the dovel opuent or the fishing industry. Marine
products are important supply sourees of protoins and rets.
Wo weuld like, therefere, to draw up a plan for'largo-seale
incrcaso in prdduction in this field. Howaver, win to the
prusont linited fishing area, to diminution of resouo 
riak such as mardine and horring and to l imitationdar
materials such as heavy oil. and fishing netay we wore
unable to draw up a plan wtich bringe about any substanti
incroase over tho pro-war. Acauing that there will bo
no changus in the sxisting fishing area epen to Japan.
the uxpccted cateh in 1953 wil1 anount to 844,100,000
kan at nost, or a 2 increaso over the 1930-34 1evel
and a 2s incnease over last yeur. This was the best
plan for increasing production that wc could make.
However, if n oxtension of ths present fishing
aree shoula be permittd, an production increase of
approximutoly 120,000,000 kan would be possible.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
Marino Broduation
TABLE 24.
(in 1,000 kon)
Pisci-
Algao
Classification Coastal Deep-
Fishing
Sea
culturé Martne
Fishing
& Inland Produats
Fishing
1930-34:
628,778 137,162 59,324 825,264 151,693976 89
Catch
100
100
100.
100
100
Index numbers
1948:
781.800
09,000. 005,800 64000
481,400 117,400
Catch
Index mumbers:
60.7
85.6
112.8
809
42.2
1930-34
1948
100
100
100
100
100
1949:
766.900
Catah
505,400 109,500 82,000 696,900 70,000
Index numbers:
1930-34
804
79.8
38.2
8404
461
1948
104.9
93.3
324
10404
1093
1047
1953
941,200
575,100 116,000 153,000 344,000, 97,100
Catch
Index mumbers:
91.5
84.6
257.9
1023
644
1930-34
1948
29.5
98.8
228.4
1264
517
Note: Quantity index ahown in the above table'1e1
than value 1ndox of 124.9 ahown 1

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
1s due to the poor catch of low-price ar
increased catch of high-priced tuma, bonito
(red snappers).
(3) Forostry
While exccesivo deforesteticn of timbor lend ls hein
the prosent time, afforestation and prospective measureao
othor hand, aro being noglccted. As a result, timber resou
being groatly orhausted. At tho end of 1947, the aree of
requirod afforcatation totalled 1,41o,00o chobu: Bubrsince tm
would mcun a successivo increaso in natural celamitiea sue
and ar- increased shortage of timber resuurces in the
aimed, in this plan, to maintain a balance between deforestet
and recovery and et the samo time to supply the minime amdande
forestry prcducbs needed for rehabilitation. With such an aw
viom, we have drawn up the following plan of productid
TABLE 25.
Forestry Production Plan
Plan por year
Items
Un1t
1949
1950
1951
1952
70,000
70,000
70,300
Timbor
1,000 koku
70,000
1,980
1,980
1,980
1.980
Characel
1.000 tons
Ordinary
60,064
56,064
56,864
58,464
59.26
firewood
10cc koku
Firowood
1,000 tons
1,000
1,500
1,000
BGS
for gas
Stumpage
1,cc0 koku
193,000
193,000
-191.000
189,950
180
felled
Noto: Unit of ordinary firewood is soseki koku.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
5. Transportation
We oxpariencad during the war enqrnoua tangible and
intangible damagos inflicted on transportation faoilities.
Tho transport facilities on the whole, however, are re-
turning to thoir normalcy and thee oxists ne-such trans-
portation difficul ty as restricted nd determined tho amount
of productien irmediately aftor the war-ond. This does
not mean that the ruhabilitation of transportation
means has comploted. There still exist numerous pro-
blens to be solved.
What is nost important in transport programwing io
to ostablish division of labour emong transportation
rmeans so that each one may operate at its highest ofr
ciency. This must be specially euphasized when progran
hus to be mado with tight monoy and scarco materiala.
Fran this viowpoint it has boon planned to shift short-
distance (less than 50 km) and light cargo transportation
to truoks and long-distanco heavy cargo transportation
to vessole. Effort was mado al so to adjuet tho croas
transportation and ssasonal transport fluctuation.
a. Land Transportation
Priority is put on the froight tranaportation in
the forner period in order to avoid adverse effoot of
transportation bottl eneck in production. In the latter
period it is uxpocted that the bottleneck in freight

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.94)
63
transportation will heve been sol ved by then und that en-
phasis will be laid on passenger transportation.
TABLE.26.
Governnent Railway Cargo Trans-
portation Progran
(Unit: Thousand ton)
Progrummod
General
Total
Cerrying
Tonkdloneter
gooda
goods
distanco
(Thousand tom
por ton
kilometer)
1949
119,758
2242
140,000
22 k
28.28000
1950
121,523
26477
146.000
200n
29.600
1951
122,475
31525
154,00
198"
30492000
1952
123,296
34764
15000
196"
30,963,906
1953
124,159
35c41
16000
194"
31,040,000
TABLE 2Y.
Passongor Transpcrtation Progran
(Unit:
Thousand
Lassongers
Thousand
passongors.
kil ometora)
Passongers
Truin passon-
Elactric car
pissengors
gers
passengors
kilometers
1949
3,544.℃
2398487
1,145,513
92,102,64
195
3,632,
2,443.640
1,183,360
93,726,535
1951
3,703,96
2,423,651
1,219,349
94,738,904
1952
3,744,
2,494,837
2,240163
95,002,79
1953
3,749,000
2,481,285
1,267,725.
94,246,644

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
-64-
As for the aquipmont necessary for the above transportation
now construction is limited to the mininun ana effort is odn
centrated in the repcir ana restcratión. Consequantly, no
new construetion cen be initicted except such worke of
urgent nedussity us shirting of trurk linus cutc heaviar
rails, luotrificaticn, mechanization of leading and
unlosding facilitics, and strungthening of anti-disastor
facilitius.
It is tho same with private ruilways. a special ad-
ministrativo inspecticn has revoaled thet the facilitios
of private railways are almost on the point of pollapse.
In this program, however, we could
considor almost
no construction works exoopt repair works necessary to
acsure the minimua safety.
With rogurd to me tor transportetion, the utmost
ofrorts have been meie to exr nd it within the limit of
available suprly of fuels in view of tho fuct that it
is of speciel importance in derining the riulds of
transportetion in the citios. Since the supply of
potr lcum is xtremely lilited, hewover, efforts have
besu s to incrcaso tranaportation capacity of motor
crr or by inorcasea utilization r bis dicsl bus for
urban bus transportaticn and by the maxinu utilization
o firewe d ther indigenous fuals.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
-65-
b. Marino Transportation.
Robuilding of merchant Nout is indispuneable
eccncny us it in-
for the self-surportis
creases invisible ux ert und cintributos to expand
export trude. It is planned, ther fore, to build
1.3 million gross tons of merchwnt marinos during the
five years. Existing merchent flost is morely one fifth
of pro-war days total ing 1.2 million sross tons, of which
only 35 vossels totaling 200,000 gross tons are occun-
going. It is estimated that 1.7 mill on gross tons of
ocean-gcing vessel's will have to be nuwly sadcd to our
scanty flcet in five yeur time in order to curry helr
the cargo in our foreign trale und to aoquire 100
million dollars cf shirping incone. Viowing fron
the prosont conaiticn 1.3 million gross ton build-
ing progra appears to be the maximuny the bel anco
boins chartorod from foreign countries in craor to
secure the abeve shipying imcome. Foll owing table
chows the building tonnage and average operating
bettoms throughout the Five yoars.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
66
TABLE 28.
Volume of marine transportation
(by steam vessels only)
(Unit:
Coastal shipping
Oocan shipping
General Petro- To-
General Pêtro- To-
General
merchan- leum
tal
morohan-leum
tál
merchan-
dize
dize
dize
1949 16.850
1,740.18,590
3,307
610 3,917.20,157
2,350
22,50
1950 18,760
1,98020,740
5,149
9556,104 23.909
2,955 26.8
1951 20,320
2,049 2.369 7,331.1,019 8,350 27,651
3,06830
1052 21,480
2,091 23,571 10.006 1,371 11.377 51,486
3,482. 34
1953 22,300
2,172 24,472 13,441 2,072 15,513 35,741
4,244
TaBLE 29. Average operating bottoms
Shrwand
(Unit:
Grose ton.)
Average opérating bottons
Year
Cargo vessèls
Tanker
Total
1949
(626)
1,125
(86)
247
(712)
1.372
1950
(703)
1,367
(93)
310
(796)
1,677
1951.
(754)
1,581
(96)
341
:(848)
1.922
1952
(802)
1,810
(94)
368
(898)
2,178
1953
(862) 2,064
(84)
368
(94€)
2.432
Note:
Figures in brackets indicate the number of veseele

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
67
Moreover, sineo the csoity of porte is felt to be
inadequato to carry out thabove statud tranapoptation,
it has boon planned tc inirato positivaly works nadd
for improvement of overall ort cupacity with main emphasis
on opon ports.
o. Communicutions.
Communications faoiuties, buing lcss conerlouous.
than other facilitics,  t to bo neglooto. Duo to
great war-damagos and  eufp lsat rapaire in wartime, they
have beceme obsolosomt andare causing not a little in
convonienocs to buaneso a ivities and daily life. This
program is, therofore, dessned to rehabilitate the
facilirics to te extont nat business activitics and.
daily life will not bo hdered. uplasie is plaosd ca
ropair and rerlacoment it it is intended to make posi-
tive use of advanced teiniques.
TABLE 30. PL for restoration of
Loal of Communication
Service.
(194100)
Postal. elegraph
Tolenhone
Average
Intra-urban Intereuiibn
service
84
65
1949
57
27
63
52
1950
66
34
3C
69
55
92
1951
76
12
575
1952
87
40
98
62
106
97
54

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.90)
TABLE .. Aen for Inprovenent of
Tel ophone Facilitios.
Length of inter-urban
Mumber of talephong
tel phone wiros as end of
subscribore as end of
each yuar (in kn.)
each r (in 1,
rersonal
703,19
1749
1.05
2115
776.192
1950
578,198
1951
1,245
1,315
1952
298,128
1,565
1953
Invostment Pregran.
The invoptment cen be devidud into twe categories.
natdly replerishment investment una new investmont. 
forpor is the investreot neccssury for the maintenicu or
the roauctien of the annul nationat ancome (sue es dee
preciation) which is usually excluded fromthe ionl in-
cohte, ana the lotter is the new capitel to tJdase the
the
future hasional income which represant
autional incong consuaption (rublie rinare consumption and
/less.
individucl censw ption)
日8212
In this progrom, it is.
that the price structure will beos norul beginnina zo41
1951 fisoal yoar, and that the aoishmont ient
will returm to the normel condidm: namely the depre-
clation of the enturprime assopboceme normal and annual

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
deragos by natural disastors will perostorod corpletaly
In the latter half perlod.
As for the now investuont it is contuuptated in this
program to put cnphasis on the i portast inaustries msn-
tioned bel ow such us el ectric power, marine transportatioa
coal-mining, chuical fertilizur, iron and steel, acrioun
ture, and rustoratien cf/ disasters and at the samo tiso
/efteets of
to accompl ish the crfective investuent in considoration
or the relation t: the internati nel vconony and or the
Gir ction of the future dovelopment of Jupaleso coono
aftor 1954. Tho inaustries which are not neccssary tg
acconyldsh this progre are exompted from the now invest
ment proer , as it is cctually difficult to grip tho
amounth mi so n the assumption that these industries
are t. to fininccd by their owm funds.
TABLE 32. Integral Investment Progran
(Unit: billion yen)
item
Housing
Investient
Grand
Equipment
Working
Total
etc.
by Publio
Total
Fund
Carital
Finance
1949
170.0
210.0
300.0
22.0
224.3
662.1
1950.
199.0
186.0
385.0
83.4
241.6
691.2
1951
217.0
167.0
384.0
85.5
280.6
771.2
1952
232.0
164.0
396.0
00.2
326.7
016.0
1953
233.0
133.0
421.0 91.7
385.9
888.2
Total
1,051.0
915.0
1,966.0 430.8
1,459.13,828.7

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
90
Note: (1) At prices as. of November, 1940. A11
the below stated investment programs
are computed at these prices.
(2) Total indicates not total after elimi
nation of doutls-counting and overlap
ping for cach year.
The mein point of the investment program lies in how to
procure the capital needed.
In this plan, no small ettention was paid to the reletan
ship between the supply of funds and the supply of materrs.
The vory peture of funds, however, requires that, in order b
secure the supply of long term eguipment funds, credit control of
considerable strength be enforced throurhout the planned peried.
Then, end only then, the effective utilization of cccumulated capith
will be ppssi le. The industrial Investmant out of the Counteroart
Funds will be authorized only on too condition tuat efforts aro made
to effeet suen control.
It. is alse contemplated to supply cartainmamount of long turm
industrial cnpital funds from the public finance in the latter
period to cope with the expected deoreaso of the Counturpart Funds:
e. Miectric Power.
In order to inerense the supply of the power, the highest
pri.rity is given to the development of the hydro-eleetric power
plants, as it ie considered to be more cconomical than tho
further dovelopment of the conl mines in view of the conditions
of natavel rescurces. existing in tala country.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.96)
It is plannod, accordingly, to develop 87 lodot
resorvoir type dams of maximum capacity of 1 ;oo0
five yoars.
TAHLE 33. Hydro-electric-power Plants
Construction Progran
Comple
1949
1957
1951
1952
1953
Total
1953
ed aft
Location
Public plants
5
15
24
16
18
31
(19)
(19)
Total (including
11
17
25
16
18
private plants
and Govorn-
ment Railway
Corporationsjlants)
Maximum output (kw)
Publ1q plants 33,000 94,000 298,000 306,000 420,000 1,151,000.(1,380 00)
Total (1nc1ud1ng 45,000 120,000 346,000 306,000 445,000 1,264,000 (1,360,000)
private plarts
and Government
Railway Cor-
poration'plants)
Peak time capacity (KW)
Public plants 56,000 56,000 250,000 291,000 413,000 1,076,000 (1,510,000)
Total (inaluding61,000 92,000 300,000 291,000 438,000 1,182,000 (1,510,000)
private plants
and Gavern-
ment Reilway
Corporation
plante)
The capital will al so be invosted to improvo the trans-
mission, transformer end listribution equipment, by which the
prosont loss of 30 % will be reduced to 20 %.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
TAnLE 34. Kloctrio Equipriont.Inveatment
Program (For Elootrio Industr
(Unit:mllien
Transcission,
Repair in
Hydro
Theraal
Transforner,
All Branches
Total
distribution
1949
A
9.898 3,680
14,893
12,500
40,971).
020.971
B
.0
1959
A
12,880
3,95
13.560
12,500
47,090)
2,990)50,880
B
3,990
0
0
1951
A
16,480
3,240
15,930
12,500
51,150)
3,820)54,770
B
3,620
C
0
1952
A
16,000.3,960
13,230
9,500
47,69)
4,50)52,270
B
4580
1953
A
11,540 2,400
14,410
,300
36,730)
14,270)51,000
B
11.500.2,300
395
Total
A
66.790 17,31
85,023
55,300
224431)
B
22,690 2,30
390
25,460)246.891
AB
89,485 19,690
85.413
55,300 249,891
Noto: 1.  A represents tho work to bo completoe by
1953 and B. reprosents the work to be comploted artor 1954.
electric-pozer
2..Investment to Hydro-plants in loão amounting
9,898 million yen inaludes 673 million yen of prefectural
oxpenditure.
As for the equipment funds neoded for the first year,
limit of proouring the diroct investment will be around

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
73
6.7 billion yen, including special repairing expensea in
crease of capital and debonturos, if the current electrio
charges are to be continued same, lcaving 34.3 billión yen
for the oxternal procurement. Tor the latter, it is hoped
to acquire 70% from the Countorpart Funds and 20% from tho.
funds of Deposit Burcau.
b. Marine Transportation.
In conformity with the basic principle of roalization
of self-sustainins cocuomy, higher priority is iven to
tho merchant floet and it is l snned to build 1.3 million
tons (gross) of steel merchant marinus in the five yeere.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.92)
TABLF 35.
Merchant Vessels Construction Progran.
Cargo Vesaels
Tankers
All Merchant Vhscels
(including sevi-carg)
New construction
cour/ersi
JAL
otai
Now Crnst
Conversion
Now constrn-
Conversion
time stan v
Foni 
ruction
tion
sscls
quiro-
cont
Fund No No.
G/T
Fund
(.il.
No.
C/T
No
G/T
N0.
G/T
No. G/T
oded.
eded
yen)
ven)
(rm). yn)
30
15600
6
44000
A
36
200,000
1949
B
52
139,513
16.113
3C
133,500
2,46
21,059
51
121,513
28
107,100
1
10.:00
2 26,400
230
15
1020
37
200，
15
102,C00
3
300
1950
2.305
1,80
22,106
36
192,000
15
4
22,000
B
4.
214,0
25
102,000
75
280.000
1
73
261,00
10
68.000
2
13,000
1952
B
61
263,
24,223
10
1,2
25,423
57
221.
65,000
4
42,000
111
34
6
10,00
A
117
350,00
30,325
1952
323,10
30,325
92
293,100
6
134
308,000
12
12,000
1953
145
40.00
35,205
C
35,2015
117
347400
.0
12
13,000
C
B 129
360,400
1,460
25.17000
335
1,345,000
25
170,00
946134120
120,174
300:1,300,013
.55 303,500
353

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
In the last year, almost ell the fund roquir
be supplied by the froight income and deprentition?
But until then, the total of 67.6 billion yen
19.7 billion yen in the first yoar (highost)
be suprlied fron cutside.
c. Mining and Manufacturing Industries.
Following industries ere requirod to incroasd the
oquipmont more then present authorized capacitas
Ammonium sulphato fertilizer, Orgenio synthotigs,
Rubbor, Cotton spinins, Rayon staple. Reyon terle opintin
Synthetic fibre, Caramic.
Following Industries neod not incroade or rohabi
tate thoir authorizcd capacity so muchi
Electrclytic copper, Oils and fats, Carbido, Calctun
cyannamidc.
Most of the muchinery industries except precisign
machino industry do not nood to bo expanded, al thouch
rationalization bnd modernization aro regardod nedesaary
in those branohos. Howevor, it is considored nedeseaty
to incroaso the uctual operation cupacity in the foklow-
ine industries abovo presont level through the rehablli-
tation and ropair:

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
76
Equipment progran on important goot
As f
Iten
Unit
Hoinal equ-
As of end of 1240
Actual op-
Nominal
iprent capa-
ereting
uipment ca-
city (A)
capacity
pacity (B)
(A)
Over 3 fold
Blast furnace
pig iron
ton
6,510,000
1,332,250
6,510,000
78,700
20,000
78.700
69.50
Alminiun
150,000
150,000
Uree
n
0
(fertilizer)
Auaonium
0
0
20,000
20,000
phosphato
25.000
25,000
Ammophos
n
0
C
25,000
25,000
Nitrophos
n
C
1,900,000
300,000
Staple fibre
spindlo
0.03
1o
Poliandd
ton
por day
15
0.24
Vinylon
ton
per day
1
Over 2 fold
Lead
ton
44,100
20,550
44,100
44.000 100
403,200
93,000
403,200
Caustic soda
(Ammonium
soda process)
6,100,000
3,000,000
6,700,C0O
6,800,
Coment.
122.5
Ragon
ton
.per day
1.5 fold
2,160,000 6,186400
6,186,640
Opon hearth
ton
6,100,000
3,000,0006,700,000
pig iron
260.000
128,900
120
Cauatia. soda

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.88)
77
Soda nsh
ton
414,00
155,000
803,00 1001
Sulphurie acid "
4,796,000
2,550,0
4196.0m
4,534000
100
Ammoniu:
“
355,090
2,499.0
auluhato
5
(gas process)
Rayen p
1
24000
166.0
249
246,000 102
Cotton yárn spindle
3,540
6,000.000
Werstei
opindle
582
1,075,500
185
yam
Carbide
ton
475
77,20
1629
(oranic)
Woolen yirn
riece
638
96
150
Procision
ton
37
0
40000
4801905
inchine
Ovor 1 fold
1
Calvrized
ton
116,23
79,450
116,280
9,00100125
copper
Eleetrical
149,500
11,70
166,80
156,700 135 132
wir
R-lled sopper "
103,500
02,400
106,400
93.60: 103 120
Amoniwa
11
470000
630.060
134
sulphate
(clectrolyse)
Calcium
11
1,675,900
2,150,000
120
superphcs-
phate
Carbide
1
4309
48.C0C
490.000
406000 100 114
(for calcium
cyannaddo)
Carbide
12
116,000
140
116,000 100 100
(for goncral
use)
Calciwn
11
52000
475.000
529,0
475.000
cyannaride

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.94)
78
2,120,600
Papor
1,000
2,411,30
1,734,80
2,411,30
1bs.
Paper pulp
ton
597,800
€76.000
Sheet
1,000
3,843,000
3,47925
5,143,000
5,108,000.13
glass
cases
Staple
ton
.255
323.5
fibre
por day
Raw silk
1e00
50,€25
74,503
Industrial
ton
669.000
505.0
668,000
505.0100
machine
Agriculturul "
116,000
104000
130.00
130000112
& fishing
implement
Electrical
225,000
176,000
225,000
176,000
machine
Motoronr
n
253,000
176,000
253,00€
206,000
100
Rollingstock
n
203,000
152.000
203.000
150,000.100
(excluding
railway
wagono)

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
The totel requirment fer the sbove mentioned
7111 amount to 378.2 billion yen in the five year tim
textile, ccel, chemicel fertilizer,, steel mdustry wil
in Lich pricrity. Some funce for the raticnalization ef 
are plunned in other branohes.
TABLY 3c. Equipment capital Funds Progrcm in Maip
al Brancnes.
(Un1t:111)
Cosl
steel
Textile
Chemical
fertilizer
68.873
1940
20,333
9,103
-7,928
3,658
1050
17,430
6,556
11,211
8,795
74,078
1951
16,528
3,364
19,489
4,852
76.445
195
16,368
3,288
26,877
7,182
83,915
1953
16,274
1,662
26,066
2,109
75,378
Tetal
36,933
23,973
91,575
28,791
378189
Note:- In the finel year ef the program, cotton spin-
ning feoilities will amount to 6 million spindlos.
c. Ariculture.
Investment to the ngriculture can be devided, in itatnature,
intc two cetegorive, that is i. expenees for public works auoh
ns irrigation, land improvement, reclamation, lake drying, am
restoration of disaster, and li. modernization funds mr

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
8O
ordinary
such as funds for new farming m
munity use, and for new stock breeding. two tharde of
former will be financed by the goyernment budget and
the latter will have to be financed by agrioultural
aquatio rehabilitation funds. Pollowing table showa the y
cal agricultural capital requirment in the irrigetion
improvement and modernization
TABLE 37. Agricultural Investment Program.
Ordinary Workse
Public Worke
Irri- Land Others Total Impro-Stock Others Total Orahd
Tota
ga-
impro-
vementBreed-
of ing
tion
ve-
Equip-
ment
ment
1949 5,292 9,646 17,652 32,590 2,561 2,444 1,004 6,009 58,599
1950 5,522, 8,919 11.987 26,427 3,220 4,806 2,014 10,040 36,46
1951 5,962 17,549 13,162 36,673 3,862 5,206 1,875 10,945 47,616
1952 4,641 19,304 16,655 40,600 4,853 5,612 2,104 12,569 551169
1053 5,146 21,055 17,807 44,008 5,003 6,153 2,134 13,290 57,290
Area 567,000 2,215,000
toohobu
choba
be
ered
(5 years)

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.93)
81
e. Restoration and prevention of cisssters
The resteraticn and the prevention of disasters which happen
every yeer ere typicsl roplcnishmert investment for netional
ecenomy. Though cur country kos often been euffering from flee
damnges cwing to the geograrhicel reasn, the demagca wero kept
yithin certein extont every yeor in pre-war pericd sna there
were nc sign of devastetion us a result of ecoumulation of damay
ges thenks to the expensiture for the privention ameunt ot whith
was usuelly high snough - sbcut l.6 times higher thar the exe
penses for restorotion. ewever, tie disuster densges had begun
to aocumulate us the reyeirr of smbankments were neglectet and
the forestries were over-fellce durine and arter the war. mount
of loss whioh was cevered by the Geverinent budget were co billion
yen caelt in the Leet two years, sni still 70 billion yen worth
loss nd damage sre left unoovered yet.
In view of these factore, we have plunned to curry out es
ruch as roseible the most basiq snti-sisester worke such as rex
pair of river enbankment, snci-sand works, torrential worka, ane.
efforesteticn f that eny further inorcase of disesters may be
errested in five years. We have lso planned to restore the
offects or ttansters to tho full in and after 195g.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE 38. Fxpases for restoration or"effeots
premention, of disasters.
(Unit; milliony
carried
wer from
1948
1949
1950
preceding
ear.
Restoration of
effects of
disaster
59,291 33,000 32,500 32,00031
Damages caus 19,151
Daneges to 
18,354 22,553 22,903 23,94323
restored
Damages no! to
be restoral
13,402 26,250 10,612
9,446
Percentese 
damages lot to
70.0
44.2
32.7
29.1
be restored
Prevention of
disastera
Repeir.of
9,600 10,190 11,050 13.500
embankmant
Anti-sanc
1,520
1,660 1,8102,2
works
Torrentill
1,000.1,190 1,305
1,918
work
12,170 13,040 14,165 17,668
Total
Note:
 restoration of efrects of disasters is carried out
four years, demages rastoretion expenses inolude thoee
connected with disasters whioh ocourred in the preoed:
throe years and damages not to be restored do tot 
with the belance between damagos ceused and damage
restored in the scve year. Damages not to be rasto
after 195l cennot be estimated un1

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
.Bouring.
As the hone tng shortnge hen taooms one of tho most
serious social. problens in this couatry, it wouldsbe
highly desireblo to congtruct tren in jerge soale.
However,-it is difricult because  the limit in the
wood supply whioh will not exceed the annuet output
of about 70 million koru (T00 million putic feet) bhrough
out the planning period with it major portion boing con
sumed as mipe timbor, sleeper and wood pulp. Though the
houhes were built lest year (5,c0, 000 unit - twige as much
as pre-war average, total floor space elmost equal to pre-
war.) by inflationary boom regulting in over-relling or
forestry the tendoncy began to decline from June lask
yoar.
The construction is ot tha rete of everege 420,000
teubo monthly. In consideration of such situation, it is
planned to built 4, 560, 000 tsubo in the first year and
104% or 4,770,000 in the last yeer. Totel houses to be
built in five yeers are 1.86 million unita or 23,280,000
teubó.
TABLE 39. Housing Constructlcn Program
Number of
Tsubo
Fund Needed
housing
(Thousand
(Million yen)
unit (Thou-
teubo)
sand unit)
1949
365
4560
82,040
1950
368
4,593
83,415
1951
372
4.648
85,510

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
1952
376
4,707
1953
381
4,770
1,862
23,278
430,84
5.-9
285
6.410
Note: The above figures include houses built by the
Government Railway Corporation and Communioation
Ministry.
g.. Electrificetion of Railways
As the electrification considerably serve the ration-
alization of railway mansgement by saving fuels and rais-
ing operation efficiency, it woud be desirablo to carry
out in large extent if possible. However, the shortage
in capital funds and materials compelled the program to
stay in the boundary of 1.46 km. of 1ew electrification.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
7.Public finance.
As a finanoial plan Is by nature very mueh in
by politicel factors, it is extremelx difricult to
picture in the future with any certainty. In this
gram, therefore, the position to be taken by publio Tine
in line with the Rehabilitation Program within the proed
of rational economic circulation has been assumed withrih
natiounl inoome through taxation and oxpenditure and sligrs
by contributs to enhencement of welfare of people and to
economic recovery. Furthermore, the pringiple or main-
taining a well balanoed budget has been followed with rom
gard to both netional and local finanoos clcepting a
floeting of local bonds in somo casos.
In detormining ooncrete figures, the 1949 budget was
first analyzed and then with this s starting point, the 
figures for each year was cstimated in such a manner that
they will not conflict with the various targets of the Re-
habilitation Program.
In othor words, the size of public finance i.e. the
limit of revenue, local as well as netional, has been
deteemined in line with the program on national income,
investment and consumption. More specifically speaking,
the limit of direct taxation is pational inoome less the
total of consumption and investment, indirect taxation
was computed in suoh a wy as wilt not only bring the aos

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
86
etheumption in line with the tamos of this program but also
lighton the burden of taxatio. aid the total of these two
prus.miccellanaous ine hes with some modificeti me galled
for by cousideration of expenditire was estinated to besth
size of putlic finance. N srecial enalysis of special
accounts except a few necessar: ores wes made.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE O General Financiel Plan.
(Un1t. 100 miir
1948
1949
1950
1951
I.REVE
1. Nationel finance
(a) General Accunt
Tax & stamp duties
3:161
5,147
4,228
3,912
4,059
incone
Government enter-
prises and pro-
2,041
1,309
897
732
780
perties inc me
962
1,210
790
610
640
Mónopoly inccue
Other Income
79
99
107
122
140
Misc. & spcial
568
300
286
282
491
income
Surplus f preced-
38
31
150
200
200
200
ing year received
4,7317,049
5,575
5,130
5.321
5,626
Total
(p) Special Account
(National bonds)
207
150
259
284
289
293
Gov.railways
147
120
188
219
251
Communication
83
0
0
0
0
0
Othars
(e) Total revenue of
5,168
7,319
6,022
5,633
5,861
6,205
atisnal finance.
2.
Local finance.
1,762
1,932
1,473 1.645
905
Tax inc ne.
Transfor from st.
453
577
678
745
835
finance
233
350
400
480
Bonds income

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.94)
1948
1949
1950
1951
Payment by
802
1,006
2.154
1,332
N.governmnt
Others
271
30
310
320
335
Total
2,520
3,389
2,959
4,381
4.914
5,49
3. Totel revesus of
7,798
10,703
10,011
10.014
10,775 11,698
publio finanos
4. Duplication to. be
1,187
1,379
1,684
1,899
2,167
2,447
subtracted
5. Not totet revenue
111
9,329
8,327
8,115
8608
9251
of pubjic fisance
II. Mpeaditure
1. Netionel finance
(a) Ganerel Accmint
wor-terrdnatic.
1,187
1,364
958
388
617
338
Publie works
95
519
351
978
1,172
1,392
sstiot & culture
205.
347
365
382
402
434
Sociel velfare
143
262
348
373
416
469
102
166
180
198
220
234
admicistration
Price edjustment
625
2,02
1,120
0
0
0
Gov. lavestment in
ixport. incustvies
0
0
450
400
350
Compeneation for
479
129.
73
23
23
23
Spoclal ccountyeto.
Cv. investmant
152
842
145
112
115
137
Trausfers to locel
493
577
678
745
835
900
firence
Nationia deots
99
1:6
219
241
250
361
sorvice

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
1948
1945
150
1951
1952
195
Others
64
685
607
710
841
958
Reserve
65
30
30
.30
30
Total
4,731
7,049
5,575
5,130
5,321
35.626
(b) Special
acccunts
(Nationel
bonds)
Gov. railway
207
150
259
284
289
293
Conmmunication
146
120
188
21?
251
286
0
Others
84
0
0
Total
437
270
447
503
540
579
(c)
Tetal expenditure
of Nat. finance
5,168
7,319
6,022
5,633
5,861
6,205
2.
Local finance
Current expenses
1;759
2;433
2,461
2,674
2,899
3,140
Pay-roll
311
1,134
1,159
1,323
1.486
1,640
Other expenses
948
1,304
1,302
1,351
1:413
1,500
Temporery expenscs
871
951
1,528
1,707
2,015
2,353.
Total
26303.389
3,989
4,381
4,914
5,493
3.
Total expenditure
of publio finence
7,798
10,708
10,011
10,014
10.775
11,698
Duplication to be
subtracted
1,187
1,379
1,684
1,899
2,167
2,447
5. Net total expandi-
ture of Public
finance
6,611
9,329
8,327
8,115
8,608
9,251
6.
Ratio to National
income (%)
32.6
35.5
29.5
26.3
25.6
25.9

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
Note: (1) Duplioction tc ta subtracted under 4.
total of transfers to looal financa andpay
by the Wational Measury.
(2) Difforence between the above inaioeted publk
works ex:ejses and special account bonde fo
1949 plenned by other Cormittees will be aken
into sonsideratior in tie overall funds demand
supply program.
(3) Prices are those as of November. 194e. The
followine tables are basel on the same prices.
The ratio of public finance to the national income will
diminish from 35.5% in the first year to 26.3% in 1951 and to
25.9% in the final year. This indicntes how much the soale of
public finnnce increased by the necd of ecouomic stábilization
in 1949 will change is parallel with the progress of the
program.
Purther, the ratio of burdon of taxati n to national in-
ecme 1s diminishing from 30% in the first yoar to l9% in the
fihal year or oy l0% as shown in Table below. It is etill
considerably higher then thet of 1930-34.
TABLE 41. Ratio of burden of taxation.
1930-34 1948
1949
1950
19511952
Batio of burden of
teaation to national: 13.5
19.729.8
23.6
20.319.919
(5)

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.94)
Qu the side of expenditura, it must be notioed Mrst:
all that the expenses like wer tormination, price adjustment
repayment or governmant debts, etc. decrease in the rirst
period and govarnment investment increase as muoh as neotsg
ary in the latter period. Government investment increases
especially in relation to public works(expenses for food
production increase, restoretior of effects of disasters
etc.), construction, bonds of special accounts, local bonds,
etc. Prioe djustment Funds may ba said to have the nature
of sither consumption or inyestment, but, in this program,
it is considered to become unnecessary. after 195r on the
assumption that by then prices will have been stabilized.
However, it has been planned to make government investmet
in such industries as is is special need of capital acoamula-
tion and incapable of supplying nosessary funds thauselves so
that their rapid recovery may be racilitatod. poreover, in-
trease in public worke expenses has the meanins of usmpcly-
ment relier measures to not a small extent.
TABLE 42 Goverrment invesment pla
(um0: 100 million yen)
1949
39“
1951
1952
1953
3,896.
Ratio to total expen-
24.1
29
34.6
8.6
diture of public fin.
Ratfo to total invest-
33.8
34.9
37.8
ax-5
3.6
mont
Retio to national
AE
9.4
10.8
n5
income

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
Hote: (1) Price Adjustment Funds are inoluded 4n
investment
(2) Totel investment includes industriel
Investment and housing construotion lems
duplicetion.
6. Employment
Full employment not only is the biggest problem in the
Western countries efter the war, but 'also must be the high-
st ideel of our economic policy. However, in our country
suffering from the relative overpopulation, the unemploy.
ment problem has the close connection with the low level or
living.
Unemployment in this country hes been veiled by poor
social security system, traditional family system, existence
of enormous small business end blackmarket economy acoompany-
ing inflation, and it has remeined as latent overpopulation
adversely affecting living standard, insteed of energing as
anconcualod unemployment. Consequantly = large number of con
cealod  unemployed are oxisting urier the strango phenomenon
of overpopulation in enterprise, turm eud eoher organizatione,
In which each shares very low stanter t living. Those
who ought to be unemploye muct be uncevered and become un-
employed. It is essentiel to increase labour productivity
through this,process.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
93
In conseguenee of tho, imblementation cf the economio
stebrlization policies based on the Nine-Point Economio
Stabilization Program and the establishment of a singl
exchange rate, unemployment is elready tending to be un-
veiled and increased. Such reorganization process
accompanying inevitably ta nermelization of the Japanese
economy, if pushed toc fer or if not attended by effective
unemployment measures, will ferment social unrest and
defeat the very object cf ncrmalization of economy. It
will, therefore, be necessary to make necessary adjustment
from time to time as the aconomic situation may require.
Thus, employment, supported by high labour produotivity,
must become e piller of expcrt expansion and production
increase.  At tho same time, it must be planned always to
inorease employment further and further. Moreover,
employnent increese must be a real one based on rational
distribution of workers among industrtes which take full
account of ability and personality of each person. In
-other words, the central probler: of the employment pro-
gram can be nothing but how to maximize not only volume
of employment but also "ur pro luctivity.
When the forner is  Xpreased as labor age population
and the latter as labo fuce the annual trend will be as
follows.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLy 43. Labor Lee Populetion anc Labor Joroe.
(Unit: Thousand)
1943
1949
1950
1951195
Letor azo popu-
44,328
26,370
46,24947.67543.22
lation
Percentage to
total pepulation
55.0%
55.1%
55.2%
56.27
55.8%
Labor force
4,733
35,41
36,116
36,911
37,693
38,16
% of employment
43.1
43.0
43.1
43.4
43.6
Note: (1)
Labor ago 1s botween 16 and 39.
(2)
Labor ego populatin other than labor force inoludes
student, fenily lapendants, and physically unrits.
Fectors whicn regulnte tro de and for lebor are the produdtion
and sonstructier progrom in e ch inaustry.
Next question is the lalur productivity serves as a link be-
tween denand 'and supply of labor. Theugh ths labor produotivity
cannot Le set crbitrarily an? it has sirect connectlon with wegese?
it is estimated in this pro ren to inoroesp evory year accoruing
to the rise in operation-l ratie and the retionalixation of the
enterprisés.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
Chànge An Lebor Productivity
73
41.9
1948
42.0
86
1949
57.5
50.3
1950
66.0
55.0
90
47
90
53
72.6
58.4
1951
6152
97
57
1952
81.3
1953
88.9
64.3
100
Note: A is labour productivity computed by dividing
production index (base- l930-34 ) básed. on the
1930-34 employment as weight by employment 1ndex
(base=1930-34)
B is labour productivity computed by dividing
preduotion index based on the 1934-36 value
by eaoh industry as weight by omploy-
mont index (base  1934-36)
merran by industries le made by combinding all the

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 45. mployment by Industries.
(Unit: Thousand)
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
195
Employed
total
33,630
33,660
34,461
35,451
36,372
37:332
Agriculture
16,339
16.354
16,432
16,483
16,534
16
Forestry
472
469
474
469
457
Aquatio
576
576
588
607
621
636
Mining
704
707
728
730
719
719
Construction
1,220
1,255
1,297
1,465
1,672
1,916
Manufaoturing. 5,466
5,478
5,848
6,283
6,650
7.009
Gas. Electric,
Water
190
190
194
206
221
242
Commerce
2,913
2,998
3,090
3,172
3,256
3,345
inancing
234
237
241
249
256
263
Transportation 1,518
1,508
1,602
1,744
1,869
1,991
Ac vice
389
898
944
958
992
1,018
brofession
1,569
1,593
1,610
1,650
1,673
1,698
Public service
965
815
815
315
815
815
others
575
582
598
620
637
656
Balance of labor force and employed shown in above table is the unconceal
e.?
unemployment, ranging fron 1,750,000(This figure is
theoretically computed) in the first year to 830,000 in the
last year.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
97
TABLE. 46: Prospect 6r Unemplayed.
Udit:
1948
1949
1950
1951
19
Unemployed
1,103.
1,750
1.655
1.460
Peroentage to
1.4%
2.1%
2.0%
1.7%
population
Percentage to
3.2%
5.0%
4.69
4.0
labor force
It is a matter of course tc increase production, especial
the field with high employment ratio, as the evontuaarmd
to overcome unemployment, but, in the transitionel period
employment insurance and the public works projects will
mejor items of the unenployment measures.
TABLE 47. Unomployment Measures
(Uniti Thmusand
1948
1949
1950
1951195
Unemployment
100
627
813
O2
738
insurance
100
498
535
528
498
General
Day laborer
129
273
274
240
102
Puolic works
380
302
370
392
383
Counter-unomploy
100
50
50
50
50
50
uant works
Occupation
50
50
50
50
50
Guidance
Social Protec-
1c0
150
150
150
100
tion
373
579
222
othera
1193
1.758

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.97)
.98
9. Standard of Living (Consumption level)
Main object of this program is the attainment erueli
sustaining economy free from foreigm aid. However. it i
the objective in the primery stage of rehabilitation. We
have to seek to reise our standard of living eventually.
The present situetion of our economy, however, does not
allow,to formulete a program with a central target on
the increase of the people's welfare and indicetes that
there are numerous. tasks and problems to be solved before
we touch it. In this sense, our program is one which oon-
centrates on the solving of the primary and urgent re-
quest of normalizing the eccnomic circulation.
However, in order to enhance the labor-efficiency and
remove social unrest it is essontial to have certain level
of individual life.
of course, the standard of living is derived as the
result of the lsesral planning and it does not come out
before all the her programs sre made. Especially when
the center oprogram is put on the attainment of
self-sustaining Geonomy, consumption level is residuary
category. In ihis way of computation, per capita nationai
income in the le t year comes out as 97% of the base period,
and the consump m level 90% of the base period, for it
is contemplated to increase the portion of investment by
suppressing consption.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.94)
.99
TABLE 48. Stanuan of Living
1930
143
1949
1950
1951
195年
Individuel
consumption
expenditure
Value
9,586
205,229
9.819 10,5 11,389
Index
100.0
5.2
85.8
93.7
102.4
2118.8
Per capita
consumption
expenaiture
122.23.129.84
124.50 2.45 99.96 107.215
Value
84.689.9
Index
100.0
1.9
74.2
n the pasfa or the
Note: (1)
Though rove fisures are comp
e, there may be some
planne supply of the goees
and ectual phase as
diffeences between thene f
sre not shown in the
actus consumption include
tion level in 1948
praem. or instance, 
while actual figure
1staown as 62% in this
 608).
wa 64% (sgricultural 7
1930-34 price level.
(2) cautetion was made
pated on the seme prioe lave
All the Alowing tablus
E
almated at 62s a tasihde
Per capite cunati
abovs.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 49
Index of Above Table.
1930-34
1948
1949
19501951
Food
100.0
68.5
79.3
82.3
86.3
Staple food 100.0
88.7
86.3
88.0
91.0956
Noa-staple
food
100.0
51.7
76.3
81.1
85.7
Luxuricus
food
100.0
49.8
60.7
53.8
70.6
Housing
100.0
77.8
81.2
82.7
85.0
84
Fuel and
Lighting
100.0
59.0
69.1
71.6
,75.4
76.5
J
Glothing
100.0
22.1
15.5
25.4
35.7
Health, Sanitary,
Enjoygent
Education,
100.0.
59.2
60.7
69.6
77.6
83.6
Transportation and
others
100.0
61.4
77.3
86.5
95.4
104.51
Total
100.0
61.9
69.2
74.2
79.8
846899
Food expenses in 1953 will reach 93% of the baée period?
is planned on the basis that etaple food ration for the generai
populace w1l1 be 400 grame (2.8 to) after November 1949, 440
grems (3 go) in 1953. Food congumption will be aa followe

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.91)
TABLE 50. Per Capita Per Day Food Conaún
1930-34 1949 1950 1951
Calorie
2.242
1,947
2,0042/071
(100.0%) (86.8%) (89.42)(92.47)(94
Protein
66.7g.
56.56.58.86..60.98
(100.03) (34.79) (88.13)(91.3193
72g. 7.8g.8.26.
Animal protein 11.7g.
8.0e. 8.. 8.8g
inimal & Soy beans
protein total 21.0g. 15.28. 16.28. 17.0g. 17.98 199
Clothing expenditure will be .30% less in 1949 gomprpd
1942 for. the supply drope t 0.7 pounds (per dapitele
considerable rise is contemplatod after 1949. Eyon so, tatar
supply inol uding wadding cotton will be arcund. 5 pounad whi
is 50% of the baso pericd.
Thie is due to the fact that the total produotion
Textilas is only 56% of 1930- level and the greatc
 of the production is eanmarked for export.
arply in the
health and sanitery exrenditure wili rise
letter period
Cazde and engel
To examina by enelysis of ure
miliy pxpendituńa meet
factor whether the composition
r is corsidpred to be wcpdnal
the gencrete lemand, this pro

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.94)
-.102
degreo or urgency and the latter is aporoaghing
the bese period.
Fron the view point of increasing people's
is important to realize fairer distribution-or incomb
distribution of standard of living vo much as to jaise thi
stanlerd of livins. Problem of aifferenge in standerd or
livin, tetween ericultural and urban populace is taken
up in this proaram, e tlat scissor does not openytop wide
In the last year of this procram, proportion between the
two is elmed to eoome almost the same as the moet hormai
lays in tno past or 1934-36. C.ncrately speaking, sonam
tion level of agricultural populace is plenned to bedome 92%
while ovorall consumption level is 90% as alrandy nontipued
before. eccuse beroro, because former was abnermaly low
1n130-34.
The contont of the standard of living can be expreseed
c noretolyin following way:

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.90)
- 103 -
TaSL 51. Concrote Ezample of Standard of Living in
1956 yiecal Year.
Per oopita Expenci-
againet
ture
Note
1950-34
Foed
96.4 %
celerie
2202 (per oapita
per day)
pretoin
65 rems 
oils end fste
8éraes
ceneral ra-
Stap!. food
tien level
3.gC
(including potetoes)
Riticn to normal oonsumers:
c (") including potatoe
Former retontion:
4.3 0()
None-stuple food
94.7 %
sucer 0.5 kin (per capito per
Luxurious foce 97.7 %.
ncnth)
mise 231 momine
soy sauce 5 g
Cletnin
50.%
.al pounds (per capita pur
(14.89 yurds)
per annua)
Fer example:
suit
2.4 pos.
shirt
undershirt
In addition, cutton for wadding:
0.5 1bs.
Fuel and lighting 78.5 %
25 bunüles oharocal oguivalent
(per nen-agriculturel house
hoid)
wood nd charoon1 16.5 bundles
briokets
5.6 bundles
3.0
gAS
Elcetricity
0
Heusing
92%
1.62 tsubo per head
Tranepertetion
21300%
1.60o km per head. Congestion
will Be reduced about 40%.
cultural
21.5%
5 r. Somp 23 piecee (per
capita per annum)
Iotel
89.0 %

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
-10
l: Technique
The outline of the Rehabilitation Program has beg
clear by the anove expianation. Hore we like to tonch
the radsu of technical level es prereguisito of thelp
mentation of the prugrem. In order to support  largo
nuabur of populatiun with mesger natural. resourceer ve m
endeaver to meximize ubilizetion of these rescupebe, and te
devalop oxpcrt industries, with tochnical skill on a high
level. In p st war Jspan, hcwever, it is difrioult even to
maintain thc technical level sc far reached and it isibyho.
means possible to ,cutch up with the aver advaneing tephnigney
of forein countrics, unlees scme powerful- syetematio measures
arc taken.
In this sunse, this progran has uimed at the solution
of the following technioal preblems in order to raise the
techniasl level.
The first problem is the expansicn and strenghtoning
bf research activities. The money spent by the Govern-
ment end the pecpl: on scientiric ano technical reseurches
(exclusing rescarch in social cclence) in. 1948 is Q33%
of national incume. It has been plenned to raise at to
0.8% of the national income in the finel year of the pro-
gram, half of which will come fron sovernment expenditure
The seccnd preblem is to premoto eotive experimenting
for industrielization of results cf reseaches in order to
make practical use of these results.  It ie neccseary to
to take measures to facilitete the acquisiticn of matortads

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
106
and funds reguired by experiment for imdustriuita
is essential to invention of new meronandize,
production cost, qunlity improvement of manufanty
The third mensuras is a aystematio tratninee
ary tochnicians. A e result or the induetrlal dey
and advance in roluction process, less and leserh
the skial of workers while more end more depends on
knowledge f technicians. The ratio or teghniolana
or ticher technical sch ol graduetes )to the toteljapiphoy
minine ana manurcoturin- in Japan was about 0.65% bere
war (1938), After the war, 15,000 graduatas with.tegimg
edugation are noeded every eyar in order tonmaintsineth
abovo 1. Morocver, it is ossential to formulatem pro
for trainine of tecinicians by spocielity, and a plan fom
workers' training desicned to raise their technical abillt
both based on the anticipated future industrial stru
although, due to lack of necessery deta, it wes not pessthln
to do so under this program.
Besides, measures must be taken for systematic dolled
tion and classificution of data regarding technique abrged;
acceloration f industrial standardization, establishment
of menufactured gocds examination system, utilization of
patent system, etc.
In addition to theso general technioal problems,
following items may be polnted out as tochrical prohle
of speciel importance for the implementetfon of the Rebebi
tabioniProgram.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
100
To enable the rupid development of syathehic
fitre laduetry ihvorder that the import f.textiles
oceupyThty the 2areest percentace (26.47) 1n the tona)
Import may be mininized ane now export mey be oreatel
in the final year f the prograu.
b. To expend carride chemicel incustries as cround
work for the dovel pment of synthetic fibre, Mlastlcs,
end other grgenic o mpounds industries.
c. To accelerate electrification of rafiwaya, t
improve ooal selection nt ceal mines, and to improve
coal consumption technique with a viaw to maximizing
utilization of energy resources.
a. To ieprove food manufacturine teolmigue with
a view to incrensing the utility valus cf foon re-
acurces and saving import.
To improve the technique of lumber produotion
and consumption with a visw to preventing devestetion
of furests and at the same tine meeting the essential
Jemand for lwaber.
t. To promote technical researches on desien,
materials, construction,. stc. in the consruction of
houses andyother buildings requiring an enormous in-
teatment in the future with a viow to improving the
livins environments, to economizing capitel snd to
maximizing utilization of resources

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
Todevelop e scienda for prevention
in order that effoctive use may be made or the
in ponnection with diaasters.
These technical problems must be teken upor
besis ir this progrem and erforte mugt be'padd to
researche, praatical use, experimontire, ay lmplome
necessurv for thom.
The details of tho ebove atatel urygreme mili ns ex
in Part II of this report. But below we ko to do
the most important problams common tc all thbse pro
1.e.: internationel ralance of payment end capitaiacou

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
-108)
V.International Balance of Peyment
Intornaticnal balanoe is the final target of fulriling
sustaining econcmy. . There are a number of faotora whioh os
to the improvement cf international balanoo. One is to rd
amount of basto impcrts to tho minimun theroby raducing the
of neceseary expcrts, and the uther is tc increase the amount
receipt of fureign ourruncy thereby reducing the amount or neo
sary imports of raw materisls. Imprevoment in the terms or th
is anuther methcd by whieh interuatienal balance would be imirg
In order tc bring about saif supocrt of the Japanese economy all
possibilities for the imprevement f internaticnel balance shou
be carefully examined and no efferts spare to bring it about
Self support or the Japanese econemy cannot ctherwise be brought
about even aften five years. Following is a review ef various
conditicns on which intornaticnal balanco depends.
1. Decrease of amcunt of basic imports and inoreasè of net
regeipt of foreign currency.
As stated before, the amount of tasic imports fer domostle
use in the final year is $1,170,000,000 and the imperts of raw
materials fer expert preduction is $410,000,000, making the. topal
$1,580,000,000.
The basic imports of $1,170,000,000 can be mid to be t00
small in the sense that supposing that the dependenoo on foreig
trade is at the sa e degree as the pre-war days, this amount
not more than 90% of the 1930-34 amunt while the naticnal 1ng
and the population are increesed by 3os The dependenge on

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.93)
16
trade is actually inordused cn acgpunt,or the dastyth
produotion 1s increased by only 6% while, the popuie
crmsed by 30%.
s stated in the fuademental polioy, she future
atructure depends highly on foreign trade, However, in view
the fact that the prospective exports in the finel yeam wrr mo
be mere than 1.5 to 1.6 billion dollars dn the right of the mitue
atton of the Far Eastern merket and ineunvertibility tf curreud
op that they will oe if et sll inly by wursening the tern 
trede, and also on the principle that the U.s. aid miat be
as possible during the piannine perisd cur plan is basedsonathe
high rete of utilizaticn of indigehcus tesources in crder to
reduce the impcrt raquirement to the minimum. All pre-wer impo
for domestio-consumption-whioh can be disponse'd with are exdlu
in the plan. Thue the depenience on foreigm trade is reduoed and
the amcunt of basic imports is much curtailed.
The rete of net receipt of foreign ourrency against the tetal
export is plenned te be incressed by l1% during the five yeer
period. The rete f 74% in the finen year is lower as comme
with 76% in 1937, but is muoh higher than the present 64%. The
reescn why the current rate 1e lew 1s that the exports or l00%
rute suoh as silk industry is drastically degreased, that thd ux-
port of cottun products the rate of which is very low ooduples
ns mch as 38% (in 1948 C.Y.) of the total exports, and that th
temms f trade are much worse then the pre-war daye: It ia in-
tendea in the plan thet the rete of pet receipt of roreignrouprs

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
be. ps high as possible by, increasing the exprrts er ohemigat
in the teztiles industry, estimating the exports of silkang
preduot at 240, 000 beles (une -fourth or the pre-war exaorte)
J
sy puthing waight en Lighly fabriceted machine and toole
thelesey the rate cannct be restored t the pre-war lavel om 
acccunt of the drastic shrinkege of silk market.
2. Invisible trade ineome
If there is certein limit tc the expansion of foreign trme
it is naturel that considoration is given to tha maximur pesalbie
increase of invisitle trade income. There are a numberor itema
of invisible trede, such as transfer of gold, inceme from tousist
cash ingome, eto. Howaver, inesmuch as the proluctjon oe gold
sannct be more than 5 tcns and income from tour1sts $10, 000,000
effort should be mace to increase tc the maximum the iaecme fromt
merine freightage. As she current rate of marine freight is one
of the relatively highest as compared with the pre-war levalan it
is specielly desirable to hpcrease the incime from freightage? The
inoume from msrine freightage in the final year is $100,000, 000 in
our plan, the ratio of hendling by the Japanese veseels being set
at 50%. As the amount cf shipbuilding is 1,300, 000 gross one
350
the balande of ,ooo deauweight tons heve to be chartered in
crder to attain 100,000,000 gcal.
3. Changes in the terms of tradb
Not less than #200,000,000 imports excess et the current prige
is deemed inescapable even ir our export industries were empsfag-
tirlly rehabilitated and the effeosive demand in the Far eatarm
were to pe mubstantialry inoreased on aocoumt os the

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
211
ration of the terms of trade (price matio of export end
commodities). The amount of currenoy receipt is not
very much even thcugh the emount of export is inoreased
amount of payment for imports is greatly inoreased even if th
amount of imports is economised to the minimum. The following
table shows the deterioration of terms of trade in the pos
times.
Table 52 Changes in Terms of Trade
Year Export. Price index Import price index Net terms of treao
100.0
100.0
1935
100.0
1948
288.6
380.5
75.8
One of the reasons fcr such detericration of the terms of
trede is the rise of marine freightage, which affects adversely
to our ccuntry which imports voluminous materials such as coal,
iron cre, salt,wheat, etc. The transportation charges comprises
mcre than 20% in imports and 5 tc 7% in experts in our foreigh
trade. The second reason is that while those materials whiah
Japan imports, suoh as materials for iron and steel making, fosa
sturrs, oil and fats, have risen in price after the war on aggount
of world-wide shortage, the prices of textiles preducts which eook
60% of our exports, especially silk, heve not risen very muoh.
The third reason is that our trading companies are olosed up wit
in this country and.are not familier with over-sees situation

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.91)
112
aurfering from visible and dnviaible disadviatae
The present terms cr trade are very unfatpreble
accbunt cr vari cus reasons as steted abcve but
ly turn for the better as the world etonemy As gredmimmy
and our trade put on ihe private tasis. Thatw the
which at one time ws's es hi as le0 peton c
98 (still 3.8 time as much ap the.1930-34 price) anu thatyr
heavy ookine ccal wen't dowm from $31 to 2o shoms tha
of trade heve turned end will turn for the beteri
There are, hewaver, conditions whioh ropeshagow the pres
of our terms of teade. It mey be necassary to reduca the
of cur export ccmmodities in crder to attain the goal or moo
25c million dollars yearly inprease cf expcrta on the one hand
and it may be that the prices cf import commodities will become
higher ir we ere to double our imptrts durine the five yaar partet
In fact the prices of our export commodities were lweradrin reley
cur export increased rapidly, and the prices de import otambaitia
went up in the years after 1934 when our inports were ingremsed
The improvement of cur turms of trade depend-upon taripue od
cumstences.
Meanwhile, the present terms or tpade are so Inferlor i
thore is resacn t oxpest that they will be imprcvedsin rutw
Our plan cut imates that they will.bo mprowed by isg
ever will not still restcre the situation 1p t930

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.96)
Table 53 Terms cr Trade in 1949 and 1955
Year Export price index Import price index Netrotnail
1949
100
100
1953
85
75
4. Econcmic recovery in East sia
Even though the degree of selr support and the r
receipt cf fcreign currency is ralsed and trudeyterms are
proved, the exports cf $1,500,c00,000 ere necessarytlhfthe
year, which emount is 6 times as much as that or last yeat
Nevertheless, ,the fact that abeat 60% cf cur pre-wer experts
well as tho exports in the final year are fcp the Fer Easturn
areas means that the cal cennot be attained withcut the restore
ticn of the Far Eastern merket. In the same token, 5c% of our
Imports were from the Far Eastern areas, and it is desiraule
that they will be in future in the light of the peogrephicet
ocnditions ana internatienal balance
Such ecohumic relationships are desired not elone by Japan.
The ehonomic recovery cf the Far Eastern areas will be accelerated
by the impcrts from Japan of maohinery and other materials re-
quired for development. The oodnomy of Japan and that of the
Far Eastern ccuntries are so clcsely interdependent. that the
acnomic recovery of one means that of the.gther. The same
is.true with Bastern and Western Europe. That is tc say, itv

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
113
Table 53 Terme or Trade in 1949 and 1953
Year Export price iniex Import price index Net ogndit
1949
100
100
100
75
113
1953
85
4. Eccnemic recovery in East Asia
Even though the degree of self support and the rate er
receipt cf foreign currency is rsised and trade temms are iu
proved, the exports of $1,50c,co0,Ogu ere necessary in the final
year, which amount is 6 timus as muoh as that or lest year.
Nevertheless,the fact that about co% f cur pre-war export a
well as the exports in the final year are for the Ber Eestewn
areas means that the cai gennot be attained withcutithe reetore
tion of the Far Eastern merket. In the same token, 5o% of our
imports were from the Far Eastern aress, and it is desirable
that they will be in future in the light of the gevgraphibal
conditions and internatienal balance.
Such economic relationships are desired not alone by Jepam
The sconomio recovery cf the Far Eastern aress will be accelepated
by the impcrts from Japan of machinery and other materials re
quirea for development. The conomy of Japan and that of they
Far Eastern ccuntries are so clcsely interdependent, that 
eccnomic recovery of one means that of the other. The same thip
is true with Eastern and Western Europe. That 1s to say,

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
114
is planned in the European Recovery Program that a lar 
or lumber end coal be imported from Eastern Europe in ona
years, proving thst sconcmic relationships among neiguboring cour
is unchangeable.
The actual prospect, however, is still fer from olear th
civil war in China has net yet finished and political stability
not to speak cf econemic recovery, is far from beine realized
in other East Asiatic cuuntries. It is highly doubtful it
the economy of these areas will be restored to the prewwar state
within five yeers.
The extention of the Murshall Plan in the Far Eastern areas
 to promote ecenemic development of the Far Eastern aress as one
unit is deamed tc be easontial also to the implementation of this
Rehabilitation Program.
5. Examination by areas
There is still ancther condition of importance whion has te
be fulfilled in crder thst cur internetoner 
restored. It is the problem of the balanoe emong areas. Though
our pre-wer trede kept balance in dollar areas, our post-war
doller balance has become so unfavourshle due to the fact that
the post-war Fall in the export capecity of the Far Eastern arese
has necessitated the import of all roodstuffs and raw materials
from the dellar areas, und that the eiis market in U.s.. has
disappeered.
The reilowing table shews this trend.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
Balanco of Trade by
War (In $1,00t
the
1,610.0
1,745.0
-135
256.6
(100%)
(100%)
(100%)
Asia
(59.6%)
959.0
(54.2%)
945.0
+14
(9.08)
126.9
(14.5%)
Othors
651.0
900.0
-149
131.7
(51.0%)
5848
(85.5k)
(40.44)
(45.8%)
Dollar areas
434.0
46910
35
76.0
543.2
Total
(20)
(79.14)
(27.0%) (26.9%)
Asia
(1.3%)
21.0
(0.6%)
10.0
11
(2.8%0)
5.6
Others
413:0
459.0
46
70.4
533.3
(27.2%)
178.0
(25.7)(26.3%)
Pound areas
336.0
359.0
23
76.3
74.8
Total
(29.5%)
(10.8%)
(20.9%)(20.6%)
Asia
190.0
158.0
32
(14.2%)
36.9
(6.4%)
4B.9
(11.8%)
(9.1%)
Others
146.0
201.0
55
(15.3%)
39.4
(4.4%)
30.9
( 9.1%)
(11.5%)
Others
Total
8400
917.0
77
(41.1%)
101.3
(07%)
646
(82.26)
(52.5%)
Asie
(46.5%)
748.0
(44.5%)
7720
29
(32.6%)
84.4
(5.5%)
44.6
92.0
140.0
48
£1.9
20.0年1.9
Others
(579)
(8.0)
(8.5%)
(3.2%)
Notel The actual import and axpost in 1930-34 shown in thie tab
not-dheok with those zivan before. This is beoauks the
 computed roughly on the baals of genoral praoe indes

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
118
As ocmpared with the 98% importe from the dcller
immediate pest-war period the percentage has recently
cenaiderebly. As the trade with the Far. Eastern countries
ly in reases, the parcentage of trade with the dollar at
decrease and apprcech the pre-war rate. It hae to be noted
this connection that the trade structure has cunsiderably be
changed due to the shrinkage of silk market and the fnorease
nechinery expert to the Far Eastern areas, resulting in theo
in the ereal balance of trade.
Such changes are by no means fatal if currenoies are inter
nationally convertible. Cosequently the difriculty in cur trade
with ncn-dollar areas is either that we accumulate credits whic
cannot be realized or that we can export only so much as  import
vis-awvis non-dollar areas and that we can impcrt only as much
as we export.
This is net, however, the only problem. The world is
suffering from such shortege of dollars after the war. Many
countries are receiving aid from the United states on the one.
hand and enforoing strict exchange dontrol and impcrt restric
tions in crder to spare imports from doller areas, As Japensi
now designated as a hard currenoy.area, foreign countries will
import froh Japan cnly tc the extent which they export to Jupan
The result is that the trade between each country ts halan
but that the export as a whole does not expand. tha
cur export exqess to the non-dollar arees laat yber

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.95)
117-
40,c00,Cc0 is a proof thet inconvertibility of cuppenol
turbed the incressa of exports te a great extent.
We manese to secure necessary imperts now throush 
amount cf the aid from the United states. The problam
if currencies are still incenvertible in 1953. This 1
established cur-plan on the tesis of the prinoiple of "es mru
impurts from non-dollar ereas and as much exports to doliar
Nevertisless, there is still 3uc,Coo,Co0 expert excess tc the
dollar areas in cur plan
We used tc have impcrt excess frem tho doller areas Mor
over, the export of silk has shrunk since tie war on the 
hand and we have to lepend on the dellar sreas for lo% of
end 50% of fertilizer in the finel year: It is cnly natural
that the areel balance cannct be maintained. The situation is
mere or less true with many other countries. The verwhelming
strength of the ecencmic power of the United States intensiriea
such tendency. The Western European countries also have teshe
some scrt of solution before the aid from the United States
ceases. Our plen is based on the assumption that by 1953 either.
purrencies will beocme convertible or multilateral reement fom
internaticnal clearance be established.
6. Foreign aid
The international balance will thus be restored by the f
year. On the. road to regovery, however, consideravle gmom
the foreign sid is necessary as one cf the mainatays.  It
less to dwell upon how muoh has the foreleo eid guntutbnted

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
indrease of produobion and promotion of exports. It is
noted in this.conneotion that while the foreign aid 
uased mainly for stabilization it should from now on be us
oapital formation directly requirad for sconomic selfsub

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
VI. PROBLEM OF CAPITAL ADEUMULATION
Gonerally speaking, the tempo of increase of mgt
is defined by the size of capitil accumulation in the pre
pericd. To whst levol Japan's economy can be regoverer
yeere-le-cdefly determined by the sizo of oapital acoum
receding.
In this plan it is cuncluded that capital scoumulatfon
follows 1s required in each year
(In billions of yen)
1949 F.Y.
662.5
25.2% of National Income
1950 F.Y.
690.0
24.5
1951 F.Y.
742.1
22.5
1952 F.Y.
808.1
22.9
1953 F.Y.
893.5
23.6.
As shown above, the planned capital accumulation is sub-
stantial as compáred with the now investment in the 1960-34
poriod (l2% of the national income). It is not eaey to intain
such high rate of capital formation for the period of s years.
Because it is well Imown as Keynes' proposition that aaving
proponsity docreases in proportion to thé reduction in national
income. Furthormore, the fact that the income per capitalt
presont 1a 70% of that in the 1930-34 period and even in the
1930-34 period saving was made only in those income groupe whoge
Incomes aro Bo% or mcro of tho average indicatos that saving
proponsity can never be increased much if the preveting pon-
ditions aro left as they are. Thorefore, strong meabures br
promotion will have to be taken for capitel formntkon in
ternallize such capital accumulation as stated above.
noted in thia oonnection thatyat is notathat do dent

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.95)
120
capital is pcssiole but thot for the time boing caulba
will atrcngly rcmoted in certain cconomic fialds in pr
/be
while disinvestment is continued, thcugh in an decrossing
as heretefore in somc other fiolds, thereby gaining time
Next, we shal! considor whet capital accumulatichi
guired by such source and what ste, ere required for the atth
ment of such targets.
a. Spontaneous Saving.
How mmuct savin, prorensity deponds on business cyole
sizo of ineome is cloarly shown in the corparison of saving 
pensity in 19sl with that arcund 1985.
Tablc 55 Saving Preponsity in Pre-war. timos
(In Maliona of Yen)
Sevine
Saving Fropensity (a)
ageinst Natiunal Income)
3.9%
1931
381
3.7%.
1932
411
10.5%
1,335
10.7%
1954
1,447
10.7%
1935
1,597
Not:
Savine is net increase of deposits collccted
by finandiul institutions and ades not include
funis rotained by enterprises.
As is well known, 1931-32 was the year of world-widc de-
pression and it was reflected in tho saving propensity of that
year. But saving propensity was gradually increased subsoquente
ly as business reccvered from the cfeeots of deprossione
If wo assume that l0% of National Inocme is normal aaving
urcponsity ae shcwn in the above Table, the actual aaving pro
ponsity of 18% recorded in the lest fisoal year (1948 F2)1
exceodingly good.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
121
It may lcok somewhat peculier that the savine prope
1s extracndinarimy gocd while the income per capita
more than 70% of tho average in the 1930-34 perlol. But
o call .our attentions to the feot that the most ra3sg
saving in the last riscel year was mainly producod by
and that the ancunt of depesits of really seving nature
20% thereof, we shail find that the saving in the lhat flep
year in the real eonse of the word wes net large.
In this connection, however, it is ncted that the fact
that v35o billion f saving was prcduced, evsn if by inflatie
pannot be disregarded as it can to used fcr investment.
Howemuch saving will be made in future wilI lepehd ma
on hew the present inflation will be arrested.
In this plan, "disinflation" policies are ussumed to inored
saving propensity as much as pessible.
Thus, in the earlier perixi of the plan, recovery to the 
avere ge saving propensity in the 1930-34 period is assumod while
in the latter peridd of the plan,recovory to the normal level 
saying prcponsity in pre-war times is assumed.
Eurthermero, in saving in the broader sense of tho word
is tc be included diroct investment in enterprisos such as the
purchase of stocks and dobentures by individual parscnas In the
last fiscal year, such liroct inveatment ag stated aboye amounted
to approximately v3o billion while that in the present fisesl yeer
1s estimatoq tc to 35 billion.
On the asstimption that pelicles of promction of seouritiep
exchangos be continued fopsthe acoommodetien of long-term in-
justriel funds, e steaiy increase of such dircet investpent
year by year 1s aasumed.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
b. Etterprlae Profite
Dapital is accumulated not only by poraone
the resorvatfon of  ome of corporate pr fits. Iria
difficult to estiwats orrectly the totel arount mfron
reserves, but it 1s :
al trut it increases as the amotat of
comporate prorits in
But, under tiie prusent ciroumstances in which prioe shm
is still unbalanced and some besic industwies still suffer from
ficits, capital accumulation by corporate prorits, especially
in basis industries, cannot be tco grest.
However, the profits of businouses will naturally increase in
the future in parallel with prcdunsim incr ase and it t Mbeoluth
necessary to consider inoreasing the capital accumulating papatity
of businessos considerably through mtionalization. cf enterprisoa,
rettsion of price structure otc.
is program has been drawn upy
taking thoce points into eccount.
c. Public Investment
In tne cate, ory of public inysetzent are included Government
investmont, public works expenses and ponstructionjacgounts of
special dccounts.
Forthermore, price subsidies are also included
The public invastment
in this category as indirdet investmont.
of this kind was comparstivcly substartjal up to the preeent and
it promotod capitel accumulation in the peat-war period, in a sense,
eide by side with inflationary policies. But, at the same time,
inflation was aggravated that much.
On the other hand, inasmuch an expenditures have to be re-
dodod to tho extent of tax-payment gapacity for tha purposbret
teintaining a true balancs in the bonsclidatod bude
pablio investmopt excluding tho Gonbekpart

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
125
No great expectation can be had at presant on parsdual
and corporate reservos. Furtherrore, funds made avallubl
these scurces not be always used along the:Government polioy
/can
Therefore, in order to accomplish this plan not mly a subst
part of the Counterpart Fund is to beuasddffor direct industri
investment, but alsc even in and after the 1951 F Y. when the
subsidy system is expected to be abolished, scme capital,acaumula
t isoto be mado by such motheds as industrial subsidies in some ro
fand increaso of public works expenses. Special consideresion on
this point is required especielly in the latter period of the plane
as such expenditurès as goneral administrative expenses, price su
sidies, etc. which are comparatively non-productive are expected
to be reduced substantially.
d. Foreign Aid
The great contribution of forcign assistance to the econemio 
stabilization and capital accumulation of Japan is briefly touohed
upon in the above. To put it more concretoly, the unfavounable
balanco of trade last year was approxiuately $42o million or vlio
billien if it were converted by the ratio of y27o per one U.8
dollar. In the 1949 U.s. f1ccal year $375 million of GARI0A and
$105 million of EROA were granted. This means that more than three
fifths of the import excess of trado consiated of the importation of
relief goods.  That is to say, greater stress was plaoed not ed
much on direct capital accumulation as on stabilization in granting
This is supported all the more as all yen
U.S. aid to Japan.
counterpart of the U.S. aid was used for price stabilization in the
forn of import subaidies.
However, as U.8. aiu for Japen is expected to be steaglly d
crotaed and elimtmated after l952 it is neceasary to take prope
tebs ac that it may be used up not only just for atabilizat
wetlsa for direct cepital formation. Otherwisey the star

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
otation san be had dt
acorpcrate reservos.' Furtherwore, fundrs made, aVaila
these acurces not be alwnys used along the Governmena polidy
Toan
Thenefore, in order to accomplish this plan net only a pubstapt
part of the Counterpart Fund is to beuasedffmr direct industri
investment, but alsc even in and after the l951 F.Y. when the
subzidy system is expected to be abolished, scme capital,accumula
t isoto be mado by such methcds as industrial subsidies in some for
fand increase of public works expenses.
Special consideretion on
this point is required especially in the lattor period of thd plans
as such expenditurès as goneral administrative expenses, price suy
sidies, etc. which are comparatively non-productive are expected
to be reduced substantially.
d. Foreign Aid
The great contribution of foroign assistance. to the economie
stabilization and capital accumulation of Japan is briefly touched
upon in the above. To put it more concretoly, the uafavourable
balanco of trede last year was approximately $42o million or vlio
billion if it were converted by the ratio of- v27o per one U.
dollar. In the 1949 U.s. fiscal year $375 m1llion of GARI0A and
$105 million of EROA were granted. This means that more than three
fifths of the import excoss of trado consiatnd of the importation of
relief goods.  That is to say, greater stress was placed not so
much on direct capital accumulation as on stabilization in granting
U.S. aid to Japan. This is supported all the more as all yen
counterpart of the U.s. aid was used for price stabilization in the
form of impert subsidies.
Hcwever, as U.s. aid for Japen is expected to be steadily de-
croased and eliwinated after 1952 1t is necessary to take proper
steps ac thet it may be used up not only just for stabilization
tep also for direct capital formation. Otherwise, the atanderd
livime tomporarily advanced by U.S. aid will be again deteriorated.
 soon as it 1s stopped or Japan will not be recovered for ever.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.91)
cn armelr-suppcsting basis.
Any way Japania
hd btabilized in the true sense of word. In thi
sont tondonoy of Ioss GARIOA und cre BROA md the)ot
the U. S. Aid Counterpart Fund not made avaidaple o
ment but only for reho ijitation unn stabilizatiensare'wel
Because such stepa will be vary ffuctive in roaliming 
nomic stabilizatien in & sh rter pericd of time althgugh sh
ard of living may be sonewhat lowered for the time beiner.
Furthermore, in this  lan it is asaumod that while 
ment a1d steadily decreases hereafter, an inoreasing pmou
vate foredun capital 1o induced for the ratlonalization and ned
zation of enterpriaes. Although it is very difficultyto eat
domcretely the amcunt of private fcreign capital iniuced, It is
specified tentatively. in our caloulation of invisible trhde
The reason why it is not included in the import program is not
t 1s noglected but trat any cnncroto amcunt and timing thoreof ts
not kmown. To snew pimply tho importance of prIwato femeimp
in the rehabilitation clan, we want to adn here thst feviseeme a
moet impcrtant factore for rocovering thc presont low lapour pro
duet1vity tc 90%
In the sbove, we hevo brhefly analized capital accurulation
acurpea and stated the smmgnificance of each source. To sum it up
internel capital formetion will to groatly affeoted by how. inrlati
ia arrestod, in this plah "jisinrlation" policies ape adopted
the purpose of prcmoting capital formation ao much aspoest
foreien aosistance will be mcst effeptively utilized as 
stantial part or capital accumulation is to bespovaredthdee
Agoording t: qun coldalaticn, it iasnot imposgihle terradjite
glonned capital acoumulatren and incroase patlonal thé
pol1o1es

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.91)
126
Asice from the problem of securing cotal amount 
quired, there romuins crs more preblem whicn is quclitative; 
the prot lap f hew funds can be eacured for necesaery quartere
nocpseary time. It will s quito lifferent if all the funde
be uaed se the Government desiree jst es in ths case er the Doun
part Funt.
Homever, since most funds ere supplied by generagyrinan
clal ingtitutiong sither in the forn of lcans or in the form or 
direct investmont,, they couli mor be induced insc desired ahmnaers
Horoin is shown clcurly lhamirrionl
unlesa cn  paying. tesia.
of ecen mic planning in a caritalistio ed mumy. But, if we wemste
carry cut the plan by cil means, we could not disregard the nedeey
sity of contrels over funde more offoctive thon these ofer matermels
currontly in force. Thus, in the lan the ont rcenent of strang
fananoial controls is ussume? frem tue suanipcint that they ure nece
sary and possible. Otherwise, the lad itself will be fundamental-
ly affocted.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
186
vII Coolusion
--- For the realization of ths rehabilitation pro
From the standpoint of tho roalzation of the rehabl
program, we wish to statu tho conclusion reached with
a few important problons in which we could not but. be 
intorestod throughout ths process of plenning.
Firstly, es Japan is poer in mtural resources mnd sel
sufficiunt only to a smell extont, the scale of her ocosomy
or standard or living or her poople in future will bo bot
in the final analysis, by the sive of export trade. If the
Japanese eocnomy is by ell means to be placed/such a sel
on
supporting basis as will enatle a raticnal pooncmio oiroul
in five years, export trede on th. scale indicated in th
as planned or foreiem aid is nct ferthcoming as expected unde
this pregram, it is almost certain that preduotien and
of living will be muoh lower then planned under this
In view of the feot that when the actual reccrds in
and the targets for l953 are cempered export will be the 
to be increased more than anything else, the Gevernment and
ppople must make epoch-making efforts to expand export in the
future, mcre than ever aware of its importance. Mere spocif
ly speaking, it is desirable mcre than enything .s
overell export expansion measures for inoreaset allugatie
export goods much demanded abroed for export, active
ment of export markets, elimination of exiating din

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.93)
127
in the way/in trade transastiona, improvement or gea
of
tion of export industries, etc.
At the sina time, wo like to strongly requegt that
ment of ? self-suppertine oo nomy be facilitated by fe
tarnal facters such es extunsion f the Marshan Plan tc
areas to Ancreaso purchs ing power in the Asiatic markej
 ccluratea conolusi n of multilateral clearing agreement.
abroed of cemmereial represontetives, serly cunvocstiona
peece ounference, extonsin of assistence until achievement
self-supperting cconsmy.
It is also dusiratle that in paralled with such an elpoi
maxinize export, meesures be taken to assure the efriciens
forcenent of exetange ene import controls on one hand and the
equitsble distributicn cr coods imported with fereign aid wieh
view saving and utilizing t: the utmoet what little impont tutds
 there mey bo. What lies nearer te the reot of the problom I
that it is doubtless mord essentfal than anything to
selr-surricienoy by increased produetion of roods andset
and to minimize import requirement by retsing tho rater
ourrenoy reccipts.
Sec.ndly, s considerable amount of cepital acoumuly
ruquired to achieve the reesyery of the Japaneae egonm
718
fairer distribution of inecme tenting to lower une peg
to seve and et the samo time to direct cver zò per centa

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.94)
128-
national income towaris investment each year. Rewever uni
we fulfil this difficult cask, either the Japanese moonomy
never be rehabilitsted or we will have to be contented with
scenomy on a small scale end low standard or living ir evat
stabilization is achieved. If we do nct want thie tc happen
wa must take care to ruise the standard of living crly srowly
and acoumulate as much capital as possible for the time bein
towever trying it may be.
It nuat be nsted that, in rder to ensure the accwmulation
of oapltel required under this rogrem, a psnie - deflation
often pecurring after inflation muet be staved off at all gost.
It is cut of the feer of en adverse effeot of deflation on dn
acoumulaticn thet we advocate disinflation as a methoa of overoom
ing inflation.
With regerd to ancther problem or capital accumulation, ile.
a quantitative problom of seouring pecessary capital for essantial
industries, centrcl muasures in the field of finencing es well
as ratimalization or the price structure is absolutely negessary
When it is admitted that basic iniustries sieh as coal, elecbrlcfoiti
and ircn and steel industries heve yet no self-oapital-acoumulave
ing capecity while ropair and new ccnstruction of facilibiee in
these ind stries is indispensable for the recovery of cur country.
it is r ot permi ssible to leave 'thom entirely to the independent
rinancing by city banks whe should bandle short-term oradit. It
is essontial, in the first plece, to reexemine the present prige
structure and inorease the self-funis-supplyicg-capacity of these
industries and, in the secund place, to establish a policy which

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.94)
189
will ensure an efficient and timely flew of munda to
are essentially requireu. There is, however, a co
such  pelicy, It is nut pessible tomeet all the/rumm
ment. The Gcvernment pust therefore, establish a syetemof
ing long-term funis to imurtent induetries by effeqtive ut
of foreiin aid end by inereasing the preportion of investment
public finance.
Thiruly, powerful measures are necessary in relation tos
tion. The general tendency of inereesing pepulation illmoont
for many years to ccme, althsugh the rate cr inorease may
the highest ever recoried cf 22% in 1948. How atreng presmil
this encrmous yopulaticn now exerting upon thetapenese éodne
It is cleerly shown by the fact that last yeer per vapita ineon
was only 71 per cent or the 1930-34 lavel, whereas the reelmd
el inccme was S6 per cent of the same level and by the. faotythat.
the ulemployment amounts to over 4 million persone when the some
In view of the faot that odpopy
unemplcyment is included.
tion not cnly lowers the standard of living but also makes the
unemployment prtblem acuter end impedes the modernization cry
enterprisos, this Committee considere it absolutely nesaseary to
carry out pcwerful
measures-with regard to population ingrmas
These are not all the important concluaicne  the bi
tion program. It is not the formulation of the progrem
the sincere efrcrts or both the peoale and the Government
plement the program that is most importpnt As we havy el
stated, this program is not a mero toreoaat, 

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.90)
280
ebjeotives to sohieve. The impleuentaticn ep thip
for a cere to make the mmximum utilization of limit
materiale and achieva an verell reocvery of econamy t
words, nepessery ecen mic contrels supperted by the rhed
of the people to cosperate pesitively in them.
The pecple has been unaer the yeke of contrcls avev
the war and is feslin direu  the present ocatrele.
votce fer cec mtr l requently raisui in varicus quarben
be said te be n expression f this resling. When we thank
if ohe cluasinuss of the contrels up to now, this feeltngvo
people is nct ununderstandable. However, as leng as we wem
to implement this procram, it is most essentlal tc ountinge
meet powerful contrcls on priority basis, slthoumh it mey be
peeegsery to adupt such  now uth d .I cuntrel as will not
onls leave foom fer the werking cf scencmic values but elae
qebpainetemoney an. cocds.
pur the pecple, the way towsrds the realizetiond
proeres is nct et all easy. The present ocudition or
Jepanese ecenemy, hewever, indicates that real stabilizatiop
une self-supperting co nomy wil) never/schieved. unless
be
evarcome trenendous lifriculties. so much is cur situasion
frought with cifriculties. The difficulties are not only
nal but elst intermaticnel. The will of the people te do
very cst and overoume all these difricultiee Hom wim
lable to roalizasion or sosnomic recovery And hes
end chooeseus cicne will justify the requdst te he.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.93)
worlg mnting ef sii as primer and alleviation or oly
the axtermal conditicns in the way cf recovery.
In conoluding this ovetall repert, we like to streeer
the spontanecus ccopereticn of the pecple fuily aware or
eirriculties invelved in the econcmis recovery, in sther
their breathing of life int: the rehabilitation program vut of
their cwn spontanecus will, will be she very motive power wmigh
makes the realizetion of the rehabilitation program/and will be
/pcss1ble
e. ud which will promise a high standard of living in the fubure

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADOUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
UIVEY SHI
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 671, September 26,
1949, from the Office of the U. S. Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "For-
warding Findings of Survey Regarding Public In-
terest in Purchases of Zaibatsu Stocks".
THE PURCHASE OF
ZAIBATSU STOCKS:
AN APPRAISAL OP
PUBLIC INTEREST
31 august 1949
PUBLIC OPINION AND
SOCIOLOGICAL RESEARCH
DIVISION

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISIOI.AL PUBLIC OPINION SURVEYS
Foroword
Surveys published in this suries repre-
sunt studies conducted by this Division or
by this Division in cooper:tion ith other
orgeniz tions. These studies are designed
to provide inform:tion cither recuested by
SCAP staff sections or by Eighth Army
Civil affairs Section, or deumed to be of
concern to thom.
1

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pago
Introduction
i
SOLE LAJOR FINDIIGS OF THE SURVEY
ii
CHapTer I. PERSOLAL EXFERIENCE ITH STOCHS D BODS
1
A. The Stockowners
1
B. The lionstockowners
4
C. The Relationship Between Personal Experienco
and Recoptivity to the Securities Democra-
tization Program
6
Chapter II. IO LEDGE OF STOCLS AID THE SECURITIES
DEOCRATIZ.TIOI: PROGRAI
9
A. Knowledge of Stocks in General
9
B. Knovledge of Securities Democratization
Progran
11
C.
Relationship Betwcen inouledgo and Recep-
tivity to the Securitics Denocratization
Program
15
ChapTer III.INTEREST I STOCHS AI D FURCHASE INT.I TIONS
16
A. Intcrust in Stocks
16
B. Intention to Buy
17
Appendix I THE SURVEY . ETHOD
21
APPendix II AI. ESTL TE OF CHAICES II. STOCKO  RSIIP SLICE
B.FORE THE R
23

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
Introduction
The securities democratization program is an important part of the ov
all Occupation policy of shifting the ownership of Japan's industry from a
amall number of large owmers (the "Zaibatau") to a wider base among the
people as a whole. Under the program, Zaibatsu and other stocs were made
available for public purchase. In crder to assist the Securities Coordi-
nating Liquidation Conmission, a Japanese Government agency, to evaluate the
program's present state of progress, and to test the results of the stock
purchase information program, the Jiji News Agency Public Opinion Room con-
ducted a nationwide survey during the last two days of Aprii l949.1 Over
5,000 persons were individually interviewed concerning their experiences
with, and their opinions concerning, the purchase of these stocks. The re-
spondents were selected by methods vhich, it is believed, yield a scientifi-
cally accurate cross section of the adult population of Japan.
1. During the same period in 194, the same agency conducted a similar
survey in the Kansai area. The results of this survey are reported upon
in the publication "Attitudes in the Kansai District Toward Democratization
of Securities," Current Japanese Public Opinion Surveys, No. 10, 26 August
1948, CIE, GHQ, SCAP.
i

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
SOMEMAJOR FINDINGS OF THE SURVEY
THERE ARE SOME GAPS IN PUBLIC IIFORATION
Almost nine out of every 10 persons either know nothing
of the securities democratization program or have mis-
taken ideas about its nature.
Approximately nine out of 10 persons are unable to identify
the principal institutions engaged in the stock democratiza-
tion program; between 96 and 99 out of every 100 persons
are completely unable to indicate the functions of these
institutions.
Three out of every five persons are unable to identify a
single one of the rights of stockholders.
Less than one out of every eight persons is aware of the
employees' priority in the purchase of liquidated Zaibatsu
stocks.
INTEREST IN THE PROGRAL IS SLIGHT
More than seven out of every 10 persons expressed abso-
lutely no interest in stocks and bonds.
Three out of every four persons never read stock reports
in the newspapers.
Almost nine out of every l0 persons never listen to radio
stock news.
For eight out of every persons, the purchase of stocks
is not included in their plans for the future.
HOWEVER, THERE IS SOIE GOOD .ILL TOMARD THE PROGRAM
Although most people were unable to offer a judgment, a
majority of those who do have opinions feel that the
securities democratization program will have beneficial
effects upon
industrial rehabilitation,
economic stabilization, and
the attraction of foreign capital into Japan.
ii

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
INFORMATIOI: IS DMPORTANT
It has an effect upon present stockovming:
Among all people, slightly less than one out of every eight
owms stock.
BUT.
Among people who know a great deal about the securities
democratization program, almost one out of every two owns
stocks.
Among people who know a great deal about stocks in
general, two out of every five own stocks.
It has an effect upon people's stock purchase intentions:
Among all people, only threc out of every lo0 can be con-
sidcred to have a "high" intention to buy stocks,
BUT..
Among people who know a great deal about the securities
democratization progran, nine times as many can be rated
as "high" in purchase intention -- 27 out of every 100.
Among people who know a  reat deal about stocks in general,
the same number - 27 out of every 100 -- can be rated as
"high" in stock purchase intontion.
PERSONAL EXPERIECE ITH STOCKS IS VERY IPORTANT
It has an effect upon future intentions:
Anon all people, only three out of every l00 can be con-
sidered to have a "high" intention to buy stocks,
mong persons actually owning stocks at the present tine,
12 out of every l00 indicated a "high" intention to pur-
chase more stocks.
iii

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
INCOLE LEVEL HAS AN IAPORTANT RELATION TO RECEPTIVITY TO THE PROGRAM
In general, respondents of lowor income groups, as con-
trasted with those of higher ones:
Owm stocks less frequently
Are less interested in stocks
Know less about stocks
Know less about the securities democratization program
Express less intention to purchase stocks in the near future
HOEVER..
There aro some indications that the rate of stock ownership
among lower income groups has increased substantially above
that which prevailed before the war.
iv

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
Chapter I
PERSOHAL EXPERIECE ITH STOCHS D BONDS
A. The Stockowmers
One of the principal factors which affects the thinking and behavior
of people in relation to stocks and bonds is their personal experience.
The more experience pcople have with stocks and bonds, the more they tund
to knov about them, the less they feel that stock owning is a completely
strangc world, and the more they pay attention to publicity and information.
Also, if people have had relatively satisfactory cxperiences with stocks
and bonds in the past, they are likely to be more favorable toward informa-
tion und publicity designed to induce them to purchase now. Thorofore,
this survey oxemined the matter of personal experience in considerablo detail.
More than one person in 10 owns
stocks, but the onership rat
is very uneven in different
sectors of tho population
Thile about 12 percent of tihe adult population reported somo stock
owmership, there are so.me notable variations in the rate of ownership:
While 45 percent of the business managerial
group own stocks, only nine percent of workers
own stocks;
While 24 percent of men over 40 years of ago
own stocks, only cignt percent of men under
30 own stocks;
hile 32 percent of ursons with college ed-
ucation own stocks, only cight percent of
persons with no more than elementary school
education report stock omership.
Whon past stock ownersiip is examined, the same goneral tondencies may
be seen. It is also undoubtudly the case that the respondunts of uppor
income status have a larger total amount of stock ownership than respondents
of lower income status. However, the survey figures refer only to the total
number of stockoumers, regardless of the amount of stocks orned.
1

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
2
SURVEY SERIES
Question: Do you now own stocks, or have you ever owned any?
Own stocks now
12%
Used to om stocls, but
do not own any now
6
Kever owned stocks
82
100%
Bank and utilities stocks are
most popular among current oumers
Bank and insurance and utilities stocks are most popular in terms of
the number of people possessing them. It should be noted again that the
percentages refer to the proportion of people owning stocks, ruther than
to the proportion of stocks owned.
Proportion of Current Stockowmers
liolding Selected Categorics of Stocks
Bank and insurance
273
Electricity and gas
24
Railway and transportation
20
Textile
15
Steel and metallurgy
13
Chemical
10
Food
9
Mining and oil
8
Real estate
4
Department store
2
Others
19
XXX*
* This table adds to more than 100
percent as sonc respondents reported
ownership of more than one type of
stock.
More people feel they lost than
feel they mined
from stockownership,
but a plurulity feel that they came out even

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AN APPRAISAL OF PUBLIC ITEREST
Among all persons who reportod stockowmership, past or presant, more
people feel that they have lost than feel they have gained. A plurality,
however, feel that they have neither gained nor lost.
Gained
17%
Lost
27
Neither gained nor lost
43
Don't Inow
13
100%
However, there are notable differences among the various sectors of the
population. The most favorable profit-loss ratios wero reported by the
business managerial cluss, professionals, salaried workers, and porsons with
higher educational background; the least favorable ratios were reported by
farmers, industrial workers, unemployed persons, and persons with no more
than clementary school education.
Profit and Loss Through Stockowmership for Selected Croups
Gained
Lost
Respondents with higher school education
26%
26%
Respondents with elementary school oducation 13
28
Business managerial group
27
22
Salaried workers
21
22
Professionals
22
22
Farmors
5
35
Industrial workers
17
26
Unemployed
17
42
About 10 percent of stockowners
disposed of stocks in the past
six months, most of
them because
they were in need of ready cash
About 12 percent of the respondents reported that they had owned stocks
within the six-month period preceding the survey. Ten percent of these had
sold stocks, almost half of them in order to acquire roady cash. The next
most important motive for disposing of stocks was the desire to realize a
profit.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
SURVEY SERIES
"We ran short, and we had to work out our
household expenses some way." (ihite collar
worker in a public food corporation, Osaka)
"I sold my stocks to usc the money for living
expenses." (lian who works both on the rail-
roads and as a farmer, Shizuoka City, Shizuo-
ka Prefecture)
More fortunate respondents reported as follows:
"At that time, I could realize a profit
from the sale." (Head of a brewery in
Shimonoseki City, Yamaguc:i Prefecture)
"The security dealer urged me to sell be-
cause I could make a profit right at that
time." (Man who operates a small home in-
dustry, Fukushima City, Fukushima Prefecture)
Three out of every 10 re-
spondents have relatives
or friends who own stocks
Familiarity with the world of stocks and bonds is to some extent a func-
tion of the individual's environment us well as of his personal experience.
From this point of view, the fact that 29 percent of the respondents reported
that they had friends and relatives who were stockowners is important in es-
tim:ting the potential for stock purchase. As will be seen later, people
whose environment contains stockowners tend to be more receptive to stock
purchase programs than do people without such a background.
Have stockholders among
29%
friends and relatives
Do not
71
100%
B. The Honstockowners
The great bulk of the population are, of course, not stockowners.
Eighty-two percent of the respondents had never owned stocks, and at the
present time 88 percent are nonstockoners. In order to spread the securi-
ties democratization program more videly among the people, it is essential
to understand the motives of tihe nonstockowners.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AH APFRAISAL OF PUBLIC I:TEREST
The overwhelming majority of non-
stockowners are disinterested in
and unfamiliar with stocks, or they
feel that they are not able to afford them
For many people, especially of lower cconomic status, the world of
stocks and bonds is remote from their daily life. Even if they had the
money available, stockownership appears to them to be completely unrelated
to their normal patterns of economic behavior.
"It has no relation to my life, so I have
never given it any thought." (Lower
secondary school teacher in Nagasaki)
"That is way beyond me." (Elderly printer
in Tokyo)
"I have never understood anything about
stocks, and I have never had the money
for it." (Worker's wife, Kanuma City,
Tochigi Frefecture)
"I have never even wondered about own-
ing stocks." (Railway track laborer,
Tolyo)
At the sarme time, many people feel that they do not have the economic
means to acquire stocks.
"Obviously, money is the main considera-
tion. At the present ti.e, I have abso-
lutely no margin." (Employee in an umbrella
shop, Kyoto)
"If I had some extre money, it would be a
good thing; but since I don't have any, I
cannot buy." (Farmer, Shiozu Village,
Aichi Prefecture)
And some people feel that stocks
are dangerous and speculative
About seven percent of the nonstockowners stated that they did not
buy stocks because they regard them as risky.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
6
SURVEY SERIES
"The market is a capricious thing."
(Forestry service employee, Yamao uchi
Village, Miyazaki Prefecture)
"I dislike anything speculative; I want
to save money by working honestly."
(Farmer, Goido Village, lara Prefecture)
"When I think about the people who have
lost money in stocks, I have absolutely
no desire to own any." (Farmer, achi-
fune Town, Kumamoto Prefecture)
"I think that for a poor person like
myself, it is best just to work hard,
and not try to get into a fast-moving
stock world." (Tokyo shopkeeper)
It is interesting to note that the proportion of famers who felt this
way, 14 percent, was twice that of the population as a whole, an indication
of the farmer's traditional suspicion of big city finance.
Reason for Nonpurchase of Stocks
l.ot interested; unfaniliar
50,;
Cannot afford to; too poor
43
They are risky
7
100%
C. The Relationship Between Personnl Experience and
Receptivity to the Securitics Democrutizution Frogram
An analysis of the survey data reveals clearly that personal experience
with stocks tends to make people more favorably disposed toward the securi-
ties democratization progren and stock purchase in general.
Personal experience increases
awareness of the sucuritius
democratization program
While 68 percent of the people who have never owned stocks are completely
unaware of the securitios domocratization program, only 64 percent of persons
who own stocks at the present time are unaware of the program.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AN APPRAISAL OF PUBLIC IIT REST
Proportion Having Some Degree of Avaroness
of the Securities Democratization Program
Among
Current stockowners
36%
Persons who once owned stocks,
but do not o:m them now
31
Persons who have never owned
stocks
12
Not only is there a difference in the number of persons having some
awareness, but there is a noticeable variation in the level of knowlodge.
Current stockowmers have a higher level of awarenoss than persons who have
never owned stocks. hen respondents were rated on the basis of the degree
of awareness of the securities democratization program, the following figures
were obtained.
Proportion Rated as "Very High" in Awareness
imong
Current stockomers
6%
Persons who once owned stocks, but do
not oim them now
3
Persons who never owned stocks
1
Personal experience increases the
general level of knowledge of stocks
Since people who own stocks have a definite stake in the subject, they
seem to make a point of acquiring inforaution which will bo useful to them.
The general public of nonstockowmers, however, is generally uninformed.
Thus, while only 14 percent of current stockoimers have no knowledge of stock
matters, 71 percent of the nonstockowning group are uninformed.
Propcrtion Having Some Degree of Knowledge of Stocks
Among
86%
Current stockormers
Persons who once owmed stocks, but do not
own them now
740
Persons who have never owned stocks
29%
The level of knowledge varius with ruspect to guneral stock information
as well.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.96)
8
SURVEY SERIES
Proportion Ratcd as "Very High" in Awareness
Ámong
Current stockowmers
20,%
Perso.s who once owned stocks, but do
not own them now
15,5
Persons who have never ovmed stocks
30
Personal experience increases
readiness to buy stocks
hile 4l percent of current stockowners evinced sone interest in further
stock purchase, only 18 percent of nonstockowners indicated any readiness
whatsoever. Personal experience also has a decisive influence on the degree
of readiness to purchase stocks. The proportion of persons in icating a
"high" intention to buy -- that is, those who are the best prospects for in-
mediate purchase -- is hi hest among people having personal experience with
stocks, and lowest among those without such operience.
Stock wnership in the unvironment increases
the amount of individual ownership
Stockownership mong friends or relatives seens to rusult in a higher
level of general receptivity to stock purchase. This my be seen in the
fact that stockownership is more than three times as high among ruspondents
who have stockowning friends or relatives than amon, respondents who have
no stockowning friunds or relatives.
Proportion of Current Stockowmers
Anong
Those having stockovming
friends or relatives
2455
Those having no stoclkowning
friends or relatives
7.6

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter II
KNOWLEDGE OF STOCKS AND THE SECURITIES D.: OCRATIZATION PROGRAM
A. Knowledge of Stocks in General
In the course of the survey, a number of questions were asked to test
general knowledge of stocks. On the basis of these questions, a rough
index of degree of knowledge was constructed.1
More than three out of every
five respondents have absolutely
no knowledge of current stock matters
More than three out of every five respondents were unable to answer
correctly a single one of three brief information questions designed to
test knowledge of current stock matters.
Level of Knowlodgo
High
6%
Medium
32
Low
62
100%
Participation in dividends
is the most widely known of
stockholders! rights
Knowledge of Stockholders' Rights
Participation in dividends
30%
Attondance at general stockholders' mcotings
23
Voico in company's plans and policies
17
Vote in company's plans and policics
8
Unable to idontify any
62
XXX*
* Adds to more than l0o percent as some respondents
were able to identify several.
1. Sec Appendix I for details of the construction of this indox.
9

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
10
SURVEY SERIES
Most poople are unaware of
"employees' priority" and tho
right to unlimitod dividends
Under existing legislation, cmployees of a Zaibatsu firm havo priority
in the purchase of the liquidated stocks of that firm. ost peoplo woro not
awaro of this fact.
Knowlcdge of Priority in Purchasc of Zaibatsu Stocks
Correct idcntification
12%
Mistaken identification
17
(Sharcholders)
(4)
(Genural public)
(10)
(Others)
(3)
Don't know
71
100%
It is interesting to observe that the managerial group rankod fär above
workers in the proportion of porsons knowing of cmployces' priority, evon
though this lcgislation was in part dusigned to givo workers an advantage.
Knowlodge of Employccs' Priority
Business managerial group
33%
Workers
13%
Current legislation also purmits unlimited dividends to stockholders.
Only five percent of the rospondents were aware of this fact.
5 percent of the respondents knew of the unlimited
dividend ruling.
8 percent had mistaken ideas of the percentage of
dividends permitted.
87 percent were unable to answer the question.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AN APPRAISAL OF PUELIC INTEREST 
B. Knowledge of Securitics Democratisation Progrom
An overwhelming majority of tho respondents vcro unablo to indicato
concretely the objcctives of the socuritics democratization program, and
only very small percentagcs were ablc to identify any of the institutions
associatcd with the program for the widesproad disporsion of stockowner
ship. In spite of the fact that fcw peoplo had any concrotc knowlodgo,
owover, there scems to have been a gonerally favorable feeling toward the
program, as indicated by tho fact that vory large numbers of pooplo felt
that it would have beneficial offects for Japan.
About 84 percent evinced virtually
no knowlcdge of tho sccurities
democratization progrem
On the basis of an examination of rosponscs to all of the quostions
designed to test information about the securities democratization program,
it was found possible to classify all respondonts as follows:2
Degreo of Knowledge of
Sccurities Democratization Program
High
2%
Hediun
14
Low
84
100%
2. In an earlier survey of the securities democratization program in the
Kansai area, the following figures were reported.
Question: "Do you know of the current program for the democratization of
securities?"
Yes
41%
No
59
It was also stated in the same report that "since the question asks only
whether people 'know' of the program or not, it does not distinguish degrees
of knowledge. Although the survey showed that 4l percent of the respondents
had some awareness of the program, this figure probably overestimates tho
information luvel, since it includus persons who have no more than a hear-
ing acquaintance."
The discrepancy between the findings of the two surveys dissolves upon
close examination. In the present survey, the following question was asked:
"What are the objectives of the current program to disperse ownership of
stocks among the goneral public?" The distribution of responses for the
Kansai area, which makes possiblo a comparison with the carlier survey, is
as follows:
(Footnote continucd on next page)

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
12
SURVEY SERIES
Only 12 percont were ablc to
onumorate corroctly any of
the objectives of tho program
Specific knowlcdgc of objectives of thc sccuritics domocratization pro-
gram is very slight.
Know a great deal
5%
Know slightly
7
Have mistaken ideas
33
Unablo to answer
55
100%
The proportions of pursons able
to identify various institutions
associated with tho program is very
small; the proportion ablo to de-
fine their functions is cven smaller
Respondents wero given cards with the names of various institutions cn-
gaged in the securitics program. They were asked to indicate the ones thoy
recognized, and then cxplain something of the functions of the identified
organizations. The rosults of this test are summarized in the following table.
(Footnoto continucd from preccding page)
Know well
5%
Know slightly
9
Mistakon answers
28
Don't know
58
In the carlier survey, all answers other than "don't know" wore tabulated as
"knowing." If tho results of the presunt survey are tabulated in the same
way, the following comparison can bo made:
Present survey
Earlier
(Kansai data only)
Kansai survey
Reported that they know
42%
41%
(Know well)
( 5)
(Knew slightly)
(9)
(Had mistaken ideas)
(28)
Reported that they did not know 58
59
100%
100%
Tho discrepancy betwcen the two surveys arises becauso in tho presont survey
the mistaken answers were tabulated together with the "don't know" rather
than with thoso who knew something about the program. Sco Current Japaneso
Public Opinion Surveys, No. 10, 26 August 1948, CIE, GHO, SCAP.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
14
SURVEY SERIES
Not
Don't
Beneficial
benuficial
know
Total
Industrial rehabilitation
46%
2
52
100%
Economic stabilization
40%
2
58
100%
Attraction of forcign capital
41%
6
53
100%
However, not all people are convinced
that the introduction of foreign
capital will be good for Japan
About 13 percent of the respondents cxpressed the view that the intro-
duction of foreign capital into Japan would not be bencficial. More than
half of the respondents were unable to make a judgment. It is interesting
to note, as perhaps an indirect indication of the effectiveness of Cormunist
propaganda, that the proportion of workcrs whc are opposed to the introduc-
tion of foreign capital, 18 percent, is higher than that of other cccupa-
tional groups.
The intreduction of
forcign capital will be:
Good for Japan
36%
Bad for Japan
13
Cannot judge
51
100%
The principal reasons fer opposition to roreign capital are:
It will increase Jipan's indebtedness
4%
Japan's economy will be c ntrolled by furcign capital 5%
Japan must do without forcign help
3%
Some typical remarks nade by respondents are given below:
"I an afraid that we will be transforned
int) a colony." (Chemical factory worker
in Jakayana City)
"If a lot of capital comces in from foreign
countries, we will fall undur the control
of a foreign country and will not be free."
(A guard in Anngasaki City, Nagano Prefecture)

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AN APPRAISAL OF PUELIC INTEREST 13
Proportion ablo
To identify To dofine
Holding Company Liquidation Commission
12%
4%
Sccuritics Coordinating Liquidation Commission
9
2
Securitics and Exchange Commission
9
1
Closed Institutions Liquidation Commission
1i
3
National Propcrty Burcau, Ministry of Finance
10
3
Among the functions of the Securitics
Coordinating Liquidation Commission,
"public tender" had the highest pro-
portion of identifications, and
"employcc sales" the highost propor-
tion of corrcct definitions
Respondents who were able to identify the Sccuritics Coordinating
Liquidation Commission werc questioned concerning sone of tho functions of
the Commission. The proportions ble to identify and define thuso fuic-
tions are given below.
Exprossed as proportion
Exprossed as propor-
of those who identified SCLC
tion of all respondents
Identified
Defined
Identified
Defined
Public tender
49%
18
4443
2
Sales at fixed prices
46
19
2
Employec sales
41
25
2
Underwriting plans
32
11
1
In spite of the low informational level.
people are inclined favorably toward
the program and tend to fuol that it
will work for the bunefit of Japan
While not many people are able to give any details c ncerning the
securities democratization program, there scuns to be a considerable fund
of good will toward it. Large majorityes of respondents who exprossed
definite opinions indicated a belief that the sucuritics program would have
beneficial cffects cn industrial rchabilitaticn, cn stabilization, and on
the attraction of foreign capital to Japan. However, it should be noted
that the mnjority of the respondents were unable to oxpress an opinion on
the matter.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.92)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCKS: AI: APPRAISAL OF PUBLIC DIT REST 15
"I am afraid we will become like China and
Lanchuria." (Bus driver, Shinano Town,
Lagano Prefecture)
"Cur debts will increase." (Railway signal-
man, Tonomine Village, lara Prefecture)
"Rather than that, we should bring abcut re-
covery by worling hard, being econonical, and
living a life of austerity." (Famer, Iwawaki
Village, iyazali Prefecture)
Relationship between Knowledge and Receptivity
to the Securities Demccratization Program
nowled e concernine the securities
denocratization program seelis to
have more influe.me on the intention
of people to purchane thian does
mowled e of stons in fneral
People whose knowledge cf the
securities democratization
pro ran is rated as:
Are rated as follows
concermina cheir in-
tention to bur stockks:
Hixh
Medium
Low
Rih
20
6.0
250
Lediua
35
35
11
Low
37
59
67
100:
100;
107%
People whose Imowledge of stock
matters in eneral is rated as:
Are ra d as follous
concer.s their in-
tertto. to buw stocks:
ediu
Low
Ligh
6.
6.0
1%
Redium
19
28
14
.ow
75
66
85
100%
100,0
100

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
Chapter III
DITEEST II: STCCRS . D PURC..SE L.T TICIS
A. Interest in Stocks
The extent to wrich people are interested in stocks is another important
indication cf their probable receptivity to a stock purchase progran. V -
untary exposure to stcek information was talten as an indirect indicator of
interest. On this basis, the following classification was cbtained.
Relatively high interest
:ild interest
19
lo interest
73
100.
Three out of every four persens
ray
practically nc actention
to newspaper stock cuctations
Cr.iy out ei ht percent of the respondents wer sufficiently interested
in stocks e poad the stock reports in the neuspapers regularly. However,
there is censideralle variation among the different groups within the popu-
lation. mile 23 percent of the business managerial group reported regular
reading of the stock reports, very few farcers and workers -- four and seven
percent respectively -- xid attention to them. In ceneral the higher in-
come groups evinced fur more interest in steclk reports than did the lower
income groups.
Feading of Srock Reports for Selected Groups
Read
head
Do not
regularly
occasionally
read
Total
all reaponderts
18
75
100
business managerial group
∴3
28
49
200%
Small business group
7.5
24
61
100%
Salaried workers
1.
27
61
100%
Jorkers
19
74
100%
Farmers
16
5C
100%
Higher education group
25
31
44
100%
Hidle education roup
12
25
63
100%
Lower education group
4
13
83
100%
16

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
17
SUIVEY S.RIES
Listening to stock reports on the
radio is even less frecuent
Very few people listen to the regular daily stock neus broadcasts be-
tween ló20 and 1630 hours in the afternoon.3
The highest rates of regular listening were found among upper income
roups and tle lowest rates were found among lower income groups.
Radio Stock Broadcast istening for Selected Groups
Listen
Listen
Do not
regularly
occasionally
listen
Total
all respondents
3%
11
86
10.0%
Business managerial roup
13
2C
67
100%
iorkers
2
9C
100%
Farmers
1
9
90
100%
Higher education group
10
22
68
100%
iiddle education grou?
4
15
31
100%
Lower education group
2
8
96
100%
B. Intenticr. to Buy
Since the purpose of the stock program is to enccurage people to buy
stocks, the distribution of actual intent to buy is of considerable practi-
cal importance. hile most people might be interested in owning stocks in
a vague and general way, a much smaller number will be imnediately avail-
able prospects. nalysis of tie survey data made it possible to classify
respondents into three separate groups:
3. In a survey conducted in December 1948, the Broadcasting Corporation of
Japan secured figures essentially similar to those of the sample of radio
owners interviewed by Jiji in this survey:
December 1948
ray 1949, Jiji
BCJ
radio owmers only)
Listen regularly
1
450
Listen occasionally
12
13
Do not listen
87
83

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
THE P CHASE OF ZAIB.TSU STOCKS: AH APPA.ISIL. OF PUBLIC INTEREST
1) Those who have a high readiness to buy stocks;
most of these may be regarded as imnediate
prospects.
2)
Those who indicate a definite interest, but
are deterred from immediate purciase by one
consideration or another; this group constitutes
a secondary layer of prospective buyers who
may require a special informational approach.
3)
Those who evince a complete lack cf intention
to purchase stocks; until the interest of this
group is aroused, they cannot reasonably be
regarded as prospects for the stock: program.
In the following table, these three groups are listed respectively as "high,"
"medium," and "low" in stock purchase intention.
Intention to Purchase
High
3%
Medium
19
LOW
78
100,0
Many express a vague desire
to buy stocks, but few have
concrete purchase intentions
Lore than one out of every five respondents expressed a desire to buy
stocks. Hany people explained their desire in teris of the belief that stocks
were a "safe investment," or thut they were hoping for scme profit. Only a
much smaller proportion offered nonpersonal motives such as a "desire to
help the country." These contrastine emphases can be seen in the following
quotations:
Personal Motives
"It is profitable, and you can make money."
(Young man who works in his father's pharmacy
shop in Oma ari Town, Akita Prefecture)
"I have a taste for speculation, and I have
recently been able to manage a little leeway."
(Employee in the Department of Justice,
Hakayama City)

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
19
SURVEY SERIES
c
"It is a good way to leave your money."
(.life of a Kyoto storekeeper)
"I thint that stocks will go up a bit."
(Elderly advisor in a printing firm)
Statements Illustrative of Social Motives
"It is more profitable than savings interest,
and it is also beneficial for industrial re-
covery." (Engineer in mining chemical instru-
ment factory, Jakamatsu City, Fukuoka Prefecture)
"For the sake of Japanese recovery."
(Farmer,
izumi Village, Yanagata Prefecture)
"The shortest road to the recovery of Japan is
for everybody to buy stocks and become a stock-
owner." (Construction co...any official, small
town in Rumamoto Prefecture)
"I should like to participate in the revival
of industry." (Railroad worker, lagoya)
The principal argumet of those who expressed no intention to buy is
a complete lack of interest, the feeling that stocks are risky, and the fact
that they cannot afford it.
Expressed Desire to Buy Stocks
Would like to buy stocks
22;
Personal motives
17
(..s a safe investment)
(5)
(To matte profit)
(11)
Cocial motives
2
(To help economic democratization)
()
(To help economic stabilisation)
(2)
Motive not ascertained
3
Would not like to buy stecks
49
lot interested in stocks
24
Cannot afford them
16
Consider ther risky
9
Lon't know
29
100;
* Less than 0.5 percent.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
THE PURCHASE OF ZAIBATSU STOCRS: AII APFR.ISAL OF PUBLIC INTERZST
Although more than one out of every five respondents expressed a desir
to own stocks, only three out of every l00 have specific intentions of
making purchases in the "near future."
Expressed as
Of those who expressed percentage of
desire to own stocks all respondents
Intend to buy stocks
in near future
165%
3%
Do not intend to buy
stocks in near future
63
14
Don't know
21
5
100%
Of those respondents who indicated a desire to own stocks, but reported
that they had no imnediate intention of buying any,
90 percent stated that they could not afford to buy them,
3 percent were waiting for a fuvorable turn of the market,
7 percent had other reasons for not buying soon.
Desire to own stocks, as well as
intention to buy soon, varies with
economic position and educational level
Desire to Own and Intention of Immediate
Furchase for Selected Groups
Desire to
Intend to buy
own stocks
stocks soon
Business managerial group
415
16%
Workers
23
2
Farmers
12
C*
Higher education group
48
12
Hiddle education group
32
7
Lower education group
15
1
* Less than 0.5 percent.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix I
THE SURVEY LETHOD
In the present survey, approxi ately 5,42ó adults were interviewed
throughout Japan. A ratio of one in 5,000 was used for sampling in urban
areas, and a ratio of one in 1C, 000 was used in rural areas. A standard
statistical weighting procedure was applied in such a way that rural re-
turns were counted twice in the tabulation of the final results. Respondents
were interviewed in 3l6 separate localities throughout the country. These
included 106 villages, 86 towns, and 124 cities, including the six largest
cities of Japan. The sample areas were selected by random probability methods
which tend to eliminate bias. Within the sample areas, respondents were se-
lected by ..ec.anical rundom methods from household registers.
A majority of the respondents was interviewed at their homes, a few at
their place of ork. ihile some questions required simple "yes" and "no"
answers, others elicited more elaborate statements from the respondents,
which were recorded as fully as possible by the interviewers. The completed
questionnaires were returned to the central office of Jiji Hews  ency Public
O inion Room for analysis and tabulation.
In the analysis, an atteapt was made to set up several ratings ou issues
which could not easily be analyzed on the basis of the responses to single
questions. These include the following:
1. Rating of interest in stocks.
High:
Respondents who regularly read the stock market
cuotation section of the neuspaper or who listen
to stock cuotations on the radio.
Medium:
Respondents vho read or listen occasionally to
stock news.
Lew:
Respondents who, as a rule, neither read nor
listen to stock news.
2. Rating of stock purchase intentions:
ligh:
Respondents who indicated a desire to purchase
stocks, and either expressed an intention of
buying in the near future or had a definite
idea of the stocks they intended to buy.
21

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
Medium:
Respondents who indicated a desire to purchase
stocks, but who were undecided about the time
of purchase, or had no intention of buying in
the near future because thcy could not afford
to or knew nothing about stocks.
Low:
Respendents who had no desire to buy stocks.
3. Rating of knowledge of the sucurities denocratization program:
Points were assigned to correct answers on the basis of a
rough comion sense weighting as follows:
A good deal of infon.ation about the rogram
5 points
Some infomntion about the program
2 points
Knowledge of the institutions related to the
securities proram
1 point cach
Scores were tallied and divided as follovs:
High:
6-12 points
Medium:
1- 5 points
Low:
C
points
4. Rating of eneral stock inforation:
Inculedge of all rights of stock holders
3 points
Knowledge that unlimited dividends are penitted
4 points
Knowledge of e...ployees' priority
3 points
Tallied scores vere divided as follous:
High:
6-10 pcints
Redium:
1- 5 points
LOv:
points
22

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix II
AN ESTLATE CF CHANGES I STOCKO HERSHI. SI.CE BEFORE THE AR
Among present stockomers, there has been an increase of almost 100
percent in the nuiber who hold stocks now as against those who held stocks
before the war.1
Poriod of ccuisition of Currently Ovned Stocks
Before the war
50,5
During the war
22
After the war
42
ithin the past year
35
Unc ortain
2
XXX*
* The figures in this table add to more than 1co
percent as some respondents gave more than one
answer.
If 50 percunt of tihe current stockowners were stockowners before the
war, the reaining 50 percent are new stockowners; that is, among the
present group of stockowmers, there are twice as many as there were before
the war.
The proportion of new stcckowners varies anong different segaents of
the population. The highost rates of inerease are seen among lower income
groups. Some solected groups are presented in the table below:
1. This estimate is not exact for the following reasons: on the one hand,
the survey question about tine of purchase of presently owmed stocl's was
asked only of present ouners, not of persons who "used to own stocks but no
longer own the." Iany of these doubtless cimed stocl:s "before the war"
also, but they do not appear in the 50 percent includ d in the table. This
may result in an overestimate of the increase of stoc! owmership since "be-
fore the war." On the other hand, since the period of ownership designated
by the turm "bufore the war" is vague -- it can extend from the day before
the war to 6C years before that — at any given time "before the war" it is
likely that there were fewer stockowners than for the untire possible
"before the war" period.
23

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Indox of Increase of lew Stockowners Among Selected Groups
Expressed as the ratio
of curront stockowners
to prewer stockowmers
Respondents with higher school
education
1.4
Respondents with no more than
clementary school education
2.8
Business management
1.9
Salaried workers
1.7
Industrial vorkers
4.0
The sane figures su gust an increase in the annual rate of stock pur-
chase, at least among the group of current stockowmers.
nnual Rate of Stock Purchase
1948-1949
35%
End of the var to 1948
(Roughly two years)
21
During the war
(Roughly four years)
5.5
Before the war
cannet be
estinvted
24

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
SURVEY SERIES
I. Current Japanese Public Opinion Surveys
Attitudes of Tokyo Rosidents toward the Ashida Cabinet
29 lay 1948
Attitudes in Kyoto toward Coeducation in the New Lower
S.condary Schools
5 June 1948
Attitudes tovard the Ashida Cabinet and Related Folitical
latters
12 June 1948
Attitudes of Union Members in the Tolyo Area
28 Junc 1948
Attitudes in Osaka toward Current Political Probloms
30 June 1948
Attitudes in Tolyo tcward the Lew Lower Secondary Schools
17 July 1948
A lational Survey of ttitudes toward the Ashida Cabinet
9 August 1948
attitudes of Tolyo and yoto Residents toward Strikes of
Governaent .orkers
10 August 1948
attitudes of Osaka Consumers toward Vegetable Rationing
11 August 1948
Attitudes in the Kansai District toward Democratization
of Securitius
26 August 1948
Attitudes toward the Inflation Problem
3 September 1948
Attitudes tovard the Eaperor System
18 Septembur 1948
Attitudes tovard Hi her Denomination Currency
21 September 1948
attitudes of R settlurs touard the Land Reclanation
Program
27 Septembor 1948
Attitudes on the Democratization of Japan
25 Octobor 1948
Japanese Reactions in an International Survey
11 January 1949
Political Trends through October 1948
11 January 1949
Attitudes of the Urban Consumer tovard Food Problems
19 February 1949
Urban Consumer Problens: Housing, Clothing,
Sanitation, and .edical Care
17 Larch 1949
Basic attitudes tovard Foreign Countries
23 Junc 1949
Two Surveys on the Populution Problem
13 August 1949
The Independent Enterpriser and his Incame Tax
27 August 1949
II.
Divisionil Public Opinion Surveys
Reactions to a Traffic Safety Mcck Leaflet
22 January 1949
Attitudes tovard the Labor .ovemant
31 January 1949
Problems of ..oriting Jomen in Tokyo
26 Harch 1949
Attitudes of Farmers toward Rural Problums
20 Lay 1949
The Japanese People Look at Prostitution
30 Junc 1949
The Purchase of Zaibatsu Stccks: An Appraisal of
Public Interest
31 august 1949
SCCIOLCCIC.L SERIES
A Preliminary Study of the Neighborhood ssociations
of Japan
23 January 1948
Some Aspects of the Fishery Right System in Selucted
Japanese Fishing Communitics
Lov mber 1948

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.93)
TO
: IR - Mr. Barger
DATE:
2A0
September 26, 19498
FROM : NA - R. Fearey
SUBJECT:
Attached Airgrem
I am afraid your redraft of the second page of the air-
gram still does not meet the objections we had in mind. I am
sure that FOLAD and SCAP realize that the Department "1s not
queeticning the stabilizetion program", since we initiated the
C
stabilization directive and are known to suprort it fully. I
4
am afraid, however, that your questions, if brought to the
attention of SCAf, would introduce an element of uncertainty
as to whether the object of efficient production or deconcentra-
0.
tion should prevail when the two are in conflict. As
O
Mr. Eutterworth's attached letter of last April indicates, 1t
1s FE's strong view that the deconcentration progrem should not
C
be permitted to obstruct the stebilization program. In an
I
attempt to afisolve the difficulty I have drafted the following
2
substitute r page 2, which I believe NA and FE would clear
649
if you feel that it meets your requirements:
It appears from the aforementioned article that the
Japanese public may not be aware that concentration of
industrial operations in most efficient plants and concen-
tretion of control or ownership need not be the same
thing or present the same problems. The Department would
CO/J
appreclate your views whether any large segment of the
Jepanese public mistakenly believes that measures to end
wasteful, igh-cost production resulting from spreading
of scerce materials among an excessive rumber of plants
necessarily conflict with the purposes of the deconcen-
tration progrem. If there seems to be need you may wish
to discuss with anpropriate SCAP orficials means of
rectifying eny misunderstanding on this score, avoiding
suggeetion in such discusslon or statement to the Japanese
thet concentration of industrial operations in most effi-
cient plants should be held up for any reason whatsoever."
dd
68
S
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
9

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.93)
P/R
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
RESTRICTED
TO
FE - Mr. All son
ine c
DATE: October 24, 1949.
STERN AFFARS
NA - Mr. Carwel
FROM :
1949
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 669 of September 26 1949.
This report of the Ecplomic Rehabilitation Comittee, an
indepe dent agercy of the Japanese, dated lay 10, 1949 known as
the "Five Year Plan" is the result of two years study by the
Plannin: Secretariat of the Economic Stabilizatior Board and of
the uconomic Rehabilitati:n Planning Committee under the chairman-
si.ip of Fremier Yoshida who announced that the report would not be
putlished. T. is blow at the Economic Stabilizatior: Board was fol-
lowed by a decisier of the Linistr of Finance setting the rate at
which utsidies should be abolisned and overriding the recommenda-
tions of t. board. this has caused the resi gnatior of two key
memtrs.
上
The plan is designed to create a self-sufficient Japan by
1953. The objectio of + e Iremier to the plan is that it is
"auta chic" stressing tiit credit and distribution con rols.
The study aims at self-su:i iene: :ro,osing a standard of living
nly f9.9 of a for te lo30-34 period and is based on the expan-
sior. or t e ind.stries, particularly chemical and ceramics and the
maximiration of domestic resources. Tiis involves a switci: from
light te heav: industry and a favorable balance of trade by 1953,
includinr revenue from invisitles t: be derived westly from shipping.
The lan is bot. am archic und ol timistic. The central weakness in
this reort in ! at it assunes that by l953 "free exchange of curren-
cies will be r stored or multilaterai clearing agreements will have
the sare effect as free exchange or currencies."
inclosure:
Tokyo's 669,
Se:tember 2, 1949.
CC/R
10
Co↑

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.86)
LTM
TRDARD FORM NO.
CONFIDENTIAL
WWB
TO
: FE - Hr. Butterworth
DATE:
Septeaber 27, 1949
E - Ur. Thorp let 7
FROM :
DIVISION OF
SUBJECT:
1.ttached.
URTHEAST ASAN AFFAIRS
3949
PARIMEN OF STATE
I. Phe collone are cuhmttte P  cosideratou.
(a) Proesed e oren' to r. Webe, recom.endine interdepartaenta
diseascien of a. Esn teke-ver of the capanese recevery progran.
(b) Prop euee lutters Frem r. Wot to Seeretery ray and r.
Horfman slo estine tnat taes snter legeartmental clscussion be initiated.
2. Pese dercente are pevietons of earlter drefts, made in line
wit s tesces nd with se estions tat u prevlously
    s to  n at this
894.50/9-2749
tue  vrow f to poo ce f ts atter to ront and pro
euteu h i tl perlorat on of the proposed Fy 1951
.
3. I do net berove tt  po ent sects a to erfeet an mon take-
over   1, l,id be  an y tconistent wath decisions
  b t s in the e of the
out t   at on f a poace troat. n B. take-over would
be e ol t  e seh on ef the Sekp strret re end a
  a   t t  co 
    t e to    t .
CS/
W
894.
5
0
RU/R
State o
Anal
274
Invente
Dx.1
at

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
:0
- Mr. Webb
DATE: September 27, 1949
FROM
FE
- Mr. Butterworth
B
SUBJECT:
Operation of Japanese Recovery Program by the
Economic Cooperation Administration.
I. The Problem
ReaurruG
1. The FY 195l Japanese appropriation request will be submitted
to the Congress in January. If language reflecting an ECA take-over
is not associated with that request, before it is passed on by the
(3)
3.4.50/
Bureau of the Budget, the prospects of an ECA take-over until after
June, 195l, will be greatly lessened. The Department of State, the
Department of National Defense, and the ECA should, therefore, reach
agreement as soon as possible concerning the desirability and practic-
ability of an ECA take-over.
II. Recommendation
(i)
2. It is recommended that you send the attached letters to
2749
Secretary Gray and Mr. Hoffman.
III. Discussion
3. ECA Take-Over in Washington. Effective transfer to ECA of
responsibility for the expenditure of funds approprated for Japanese
import procurement would require that the following functions now
performed by the Army Department in Washington be performed instead
by the ECA in Washington:
(a) final determination of the amounts and types of goods
 C
to be bought for Japan out of funds appropriated for this purpose by
the Congress, and final determination of the sources from which and
the prices at which these goods should be procured;
(b) participation in the formulation of U.S. Governmental
policies relating to Japanese recovery;
(c) participation in U.S. Governmental determination of the
894.50/9-2749
amount of funds to be requested of the Congress for Japanese import
procurement during the fiscal years following FY 1951.
RM/R
It is
CONFIDENTIAL
51+.1.
Cat
1,

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
It is believed that an ECA assumption of these Washington functions
might result in a more effective discharge of them than has hitherto been
obtained from the Army Department. It seems likely that the experience,
organization, and personnel of the ECA in Washington would be more suited
than those of the Army Department to supervising the expenditure of U.S.
funds for Japamese self-support.
It should also be pointed out that many of the decisions that must
be reached in Washington in eonnection with the Japanese recovery
program will affect, and will be affected by, decisions made here con-
cerning U.S. foreign aid programs in Europe and the Far East. A greater
coordination between these various decisions would therefore seem
desirable. In view of ECA's responsibility for U.S. foreign aid programs,
such greater coordination might be associated with an effective tranafer
of Washington functions relative to the expenditure of funds appropriated
for Japanese import procurement to the BCA.
4. ECA Representation in Japan. In Germany, under Military Govern-
ment, the ECA mission was without the responsibilities that characterized
CA missions in other countries, these responsibilities being largely
assumed by General Clay. The ECA's ability to perform its authorized
functions with respect to German rehabilitation was adversely affected
by this fact. An effective BCA take-over in the case of Japan would
require a more satisfactory arrangement with respect to ECA representa-
tion in Japan. Indeed agreement on this matter, defined in rather
concrete terms, is a necessary prerequisite to acceptance of the take-
over idea by SCAP or by the ECA. Such an arrangement might be one under
which:
(a) General MacArthur would be appointed by the U.S. Government
as ECA representative in Japan, assuming this duty concurrently with his
duties as Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and as Commander-in-
Chief, U.S. Forces in the Far East;
(b) Mr. Hoffman would then designate an ECA official whom
General MacArthur would appoint as his Deputy for CA matters, and this
Deputy would recruit a staff to perform those duties of SCAP which relate
to economic recovery and stabilization.
It is believed that the resultant qualitative improvement in the
economic advice given to SCAP at the highest levels would have beneficial
results that might permit some reduction in the number of SCAP economic
personnel at the working level. For ECA would probably be able to staff
its mission with persons of great er competence and prestige than have so
far teen willing to work in Japan under Army Department auspices. Japan's
attainment of self-support might thus be facilitated as a consequence of
these persons' work in Japan.
5. Relation
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
2
CON FI DEN TIAL
-3-
5. Relation of ECA Take-Over to the Present Regime of Control.
An ECA take-over, as defined in paragraphs 3 and 4, above, would involve
no change in the present regime of control for Japan and so would not
require intemational approval.
(a) The BCA's assumption of certain Washington functions
currently being discharged by the Army Department would represent merely
a reallocation within the U.S. Government of that Government's present
executive functions with respect to Japan. The nature of these functions
would remain unchanged, as would the policy prerogatives of the State
Department within the U.S. Govemment and the obligations of that Govern-
ment as a wrole to the Far Eastern Commission.
(b) The ECA Deputy Representative in Japan referred to in
paragraph 4 would not have any authority except that which he derived
from SCAP; his presence in Japan would thus not alter SCAP's authority.
in the eyes of the Japanese. Nor would this Deputy's presence relieve
SCAP of any of his obligations under established U.S. or FEC policies;
it would be incumbent on SCAP to ensure that the BCA take-over did not
impair the effectiveness of his staff in carrying out internationally
approved economic policies in regard to such matters as reform and
reparations.
CONFIDENTIAL
OFD:ED:HOwen:man:spp

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.82)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND 
Act:
1.
894.50/9-2
294
9
da
oh
tC
 now bie brene t  to thet 
e oy. Drone rad  repty taut ces
res wio  olu sn acsaph
 co s f  the li
H
FILED
1
1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral Mes wth netlen ef atlen taken.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.73)
io
7.
C.6
7
on
d
teelvtrio pinlje sueechec
or   br or an. 
 p , lage   
pe  bee anoened from arp o or C
 y  th itenisou overai weoks o ns
shis vagere Fcosest lus thet no scted is pocd foitt nnd
kncgo lot couper bought by bim for Brarareky w 1i
shiopid to ro. utais counories.
4 Shour Ta Roconmuudat Lono und Tobacco Monoptr
 des 51Sep. 6, 1949, ubject Dss
Ch -Americen Le ? hcco Capany and the Japa  e op
Corperation." st.oa of tr ufor of tobucce ludusi
ly bas to pye aerise, s poc pondrd 
m.il tuto co.. sro. cred or tiro beina ty ntat moe
19022t 01
us Texatiou  tre Shoup Miraion,
'IDKI

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.74)
T's
. p
91
0.01
e
ITC
e
212
J.
1110
o1h
b. e.
17
9.
t.
r  whileras o1  axpootud ros ton Iong 1 t
r  ro l r 
dotio of ll
L to go o Kores rade Lisappolatins
p so lo  sol vithin lext low jays to rovie pooito.1
Krra Traaralsmens. Prolininory survey ndicater toa 
fiil  ocunt vosabi/ wlort of plens. Japan har purchosed ouly ut ut
m: )lica worin of Korean products (principally the cei trovnrslil ri
inr' 1), whii: koraa hus purehascd to total value of l cu: 7.5, 11
Snce Treo Plan cortepletei Jepanese purchasas t  ta pout c
th e  . ea. olcwnese of de would a por to bo  or
p liy i. lcvel cf Jonese rurchas. No onsai.
Ltiou Cor that alowness, tow for.
心：
Cocringer

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.92)
Jc
plea.
THE PORIDIGN SERVICE
lrief
BelR
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
File
noaili
Uaited States Political dviser
for Japan
894.50/9-2949
Tokyo, Septamber 29, 1949.
No. 679
RESTRIOTED
ACoN Subject: Brief Surmary of Lajor Japanese Economic Problems
FE
prepared by British Minister (Commeroial) for
Lir. Lalcolm MacDonald, Cornissioner General for
150
United Kingdom in Southeast Asia.
FH
LCR
Filos
centrel
OLI
ITP
The Aoting Political Adviser has the honor to anclose a copy
CFD
of a report dated Septaber 13, 1949, entitled " Bird's Eye ew
UFAA
of Japan's Major Eoonomic Problams," prevared by . . R. Lo,
Kinister (Commercial), United Kingdom Liaison ission in Japan, for
s/s
Mr. Malcolm LacDOi.ALD, Conmissioner General for the United Kingdom
EU:
in Southeast Asie, who visited Japan several weeks ago.
CON
TAR
Ir. Lingeman presents information and conments under the
THEAS
following headings: (1) population and food; (2) natural resourees
50/9-2949
.
other than food; (3) industrial production ana foreign trade; (4)
AGKI
infletionary pressure; (5) the economic stabilization plan; and (6)
continuance of American aid and viability.
LIBOR
With respect to paragraph 4 in lir. Lingaman's report, 1 will be
0
Hoted that an extension of fishing rights was subsecuently granted
by General Headquarters to the Japanese (this Mission's despatoh no.
665 dated September 23, 1949, entitled "Enlargement of Authorized
Japanese Fiahing Area (SCaPI: 2046)"). In paragraph 4, Lr. Lingeman
observes aptly that the ecoromy of the country is "hag-ridden" by
the problem of feeding its rapidly increasing population. He then
discusses the steps being taken to augment food supplies by increased
domestic production and imports.
Regarding naturel resources other than food, lr. Lingemen stetes
that Japan possesses tvo "exceptional" natural resources, namely, her
cheap, industrious and adaptable labor supply, and the amazing
fertility of her soil, thanks to the ganerous use of fertilizers and
under the dire need to provide Japan's teeming population with as
large a proportion as possible of its food reguiraments from looal
FILED
production. With respect to the rise in industrial production, r.
Lingeman observes that "the impmevement from 1946 onwards is olowel
CS/H
rolated to the four-fold inorease of U. S. proourement as betwees
1947 and 1948.... and deriving, of course, from inereased Congr-
sional appropriations."
NAD 280064
Mr. Lingeman,
Z25080
By
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's Despatch Ho. 679,
September 29, 1?49.
- 2 -
Lr. Lingenar, in comenting upon statements pade by Dr. Sherwood
. FI, Director for Lcenonics und Finance, Sconcric and Scientific
Section, Senerel Headquarters, i.. a briefins cn the Japenese eccnomio
situation for . LacDoaald, tares exception to certain remerks
assertedly made by Dr. Pine n Japn's foreim trade prospects. Ee
states (par r ph ls) that:
Dot's Sconmic dvicer, Dr. Fine, infommed Lr.
Meclonela th t he estimatea iports in 1950 et 900
rillion and exmorts ut sco million plus loo million
for i. visibles (het, prestwmabl). ll thut cen be said
et the  onet is thet visible trece durins the first six
sontls of uis yeer es mamminy at a deficit of 600
millice und ere, with very little ce ing in fron in-
vicitles;  th t the Jupanese e ort trade is bound
to sucper, uer i alreed. musperimy fror (i) the change
in crld tre ime re a seller'e bo a buyer's market,
(ii) the peeos ics i the itea tates sus tle loweting
of Lutem sti. al pvicer, (iii) tho avot snce by the
Storlice et co eny coller liuvility to Japen cmd its
insistence thet the cericit ef ao willien vhich it in-
curred ia los tr te watn Ta  u the yeer ending on
the t e I at suld be liguic ir goots, and
(iv) bre contir  le in the econe ie wsever of
epcte ce ure, coplee wae t clooure oe ehe all
  e  t   .
the foregpi., ef ceupre,  written rice so the develuation
of the pousc,  tet  cie prne to eatanarnel problens and deter-
rents to Jopa's e ot res.
En die diseussic ee e aece. feee e se, r. Lirgeen
states critleally t. t vslu cle. inersuse in indu tri I output has
been ia seskee eceer es vitr e eupaasier or the curresey resultine
mainly fron the coce co the Seeup tic. et of the sole es sdvanced by
the latter in its ttoriu. zetl." He acts, kc ever, th't "at the
begimniag of thie ar...s  ier relaticnship vas established be-
tween suppl. md derene," sua shet "Senerel Meadce pters officiels
claim thee thes heve e .et the eteee cf the inflatien...."
ir. Lingetan sortee pwkly thet the check to the tnslesionapy
trend is in no mall measure due to the introduetion of the econoric
stabilizaticn lun ent to the "sreviness and determination of ir.
Dodge." His coumente re ardin the Lplementation of the plen ere
worth reading, especially his snalysis of the cenesis end signifi-
cance of opposition to that plen (puracreph 2s).
Regarding the questior of continuance of American aid and via-
bility of Japanese econony, iin. Lingeman coneludes that "it is
certuinly difficult to envisuge Japan living off its own resouress
as early as 1953 vithout ccnciderable assisteuce from the United
States
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 579,
Septerter 29, 1949.
-3 -
Stutes, if only in the fori of lo ou excertionally easy terms of
rep s i   ises  stes, ia their politicel and stretegic
interests i. this urt or o orlm, culd bs caly too willing to
sive ws. d v s then e  i ro  ly e tirou  a seriss of
recu rin crie e er t t ie  cserlias wree is sow emperienc-
1:"
Enclosure:
Copy of a renort dated Septerber
13, l349, entitled "a E1rd's Eye
Tiew of Jumen's Major Lconolic
Problems'.
Parchment mat to the Dopertrent
Copies to: Aerican Dbasey, London
Amcricen bussy, :anila
ericen Jenculate Seneral, Yong Kons
A.ericen Jonsulete eneral, Singapore
500
CrPoehringer:pf
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 679
dated September 29, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Brief
Summary of Major Japanese Economic
Problems prepared by British Commer-
-RESTRIOTED
cial Minister for Mr. Malcolm
YacDonald, Commissioner General for
United Kingdom in Southeast Asia".
(COPY)
A BIRD'S EYE VIEW OF JAPAN'S
MAJOR ECONOLIC PROBLELS
Population and Food
1. SCAP, understandably, never tires of pointing out that
Japan, with a population of 8l.9 million, has a total area smaller
than that of the State of Celifornia. Of that area no more than
15.7 per cent is under cultivation, whilst 4.2 per cent affords
pasture of a kind. Forests, officially, cover no less than 67.4
per cent of the erea. The density of the population in terms of
arable land (15 million ecres) is eleven times that of the United
States.
Population Changes in Japan Proper since lst October 1945
(In :illions)
Population
Annual Increase
Cumuletive
Beginning
Total
Natural
Net Re-
Increase
of Period Increase
Increase
patriation
1.10.45-30.9.46
72.4
3.7
0.19
3.56
3.7
1.10.46-30.9.47
76.2
2.5
1.47
1.00
6.2
1.10.47-30.9.48
73.6
2.1
1.75
0.32
8.3
1.10.48-30.4.49
80.7
1.2
1.12
0.08
9.5
2. Through the intensive utilisation of her resources Japan has
maintained her food imports over the last twenty years, grosso modo,
at an average of 3 million tons a year, thus meeting 85 per cent of
her total food requirements by end large from local production.
Imports of rice between 1936 and 1942 averaged 1.9 million tons an-
nually to supplement an average locel production of 9.7 million tons.
In l945, however, imports of food overall fell to 1.5 million tons
and local rice production to 6.4 million, with the result that Japan
faced the worst food shortage in modern times. (Last year Japan's
total imports of rice amounted to 50, 0oo tons from Siam.) The
latest
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
Belosure No. 1
to Tekyo's Despateh No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
latest estimate for the mew rice crop is 8,93l million tons, sompering.
with 9,l68 million tons before Typhoon fitty ravaged the eopmtryside at
the most eritical stage. The svereage crop for the last five yeere wes
9,478 million tons; last year's 9.35 million.
3. Japen's imports of food before the war came prineipelly from
Pomese, Derse and Lanchurie, souroes of supply which have been cus of
excepe for Formosan sugar. Japan alsc lost fishing rights mbieh previded
ber with & million tons of fish out of a total catoh estimated at 5.3
million. Ses food provided the population with 85 per cent of iss proteims.
(It is estimated thit 20 grames of proteins per heed are meeded to resiss
such dissases as tuberoulosis. In the villages the consumption has fallem
to 6 grammes; 1n the urban areas to 15/16.) Scap has rafused to apply for
an extension of existing fishing rights until Japanese fishermee preve
shat they can be trusted to oomply with international reguleticns, in
whieh reopect their pre-war reputation was execrable.
4. The eoonony of the oountry is hag-ridden by the probler: of feeding
its rapidly increasing population. Generel Headquarters' forecast is of
87-90.5 mill1on in 1955, 91.6-98 million in 1960 and 100.3-114 m1111on 1n
199l. Tremendous effortm heve been made under the Occupation to intensiry
Leeal food production by improved methods of farming and marketing; by re-
alaiming land and introducing sohemes of land roform (a); by dispersing
virtually all repatriates (5 million) in rural ereas and granting them
finanaiel assistence; by inoreasing the distribution of artificiel ferti-
11ser: etoetore. In 1931/40 local food production averaged 14.7 milliom.
tens: this was surpassed in 1948/9 with 14.85 million; produetion should
resed 15 million in 194e/30 (b). The colleotion of food has aIso in-
ereased progressively, the target of 50 per cent of all food grown being
regarded as reasonably ambitious.
5. of the total United 3tates aid in the past year of say $500.
million, 55 cants in every dollar went into focd and another 25 cents into
food produoing articles. Food 1rports in 194s were valued at 316.6 mil-
lion or over 48 per cent of a total import bill of $682.6 million. The
appropriation for 1949/50 (c): which SiP has applied for 1s 495 million -
he is likely to get A70 million - of which 1t is reckoned that close on
so0 million will be sbsorbed by foodstuffs (40.5 per cent).
6. With the abolition of I.S.F.C. rice allocations, SCaP plans to
import sco,00 metric tons during the calendar year 1950. Should Japan be
allowed to participate In the International Theat Agreement (enabling her
to impart wheat at a maximum or 1.80 a bushel compared with the 2.31
whieh wheat costs the Depertmant of the Army at present, delivered in
Japan) imports of wheat in future years may amount to 1.2 million tons.
(The dirfference in the nutritional value of nheat and rice is nil. The
Japanese preference for rice is a matter of habit but their imability to
make wheaten bread over their hibaghis is a further discouragement to con-
surptien. The Cccupation hopes to establish more western type bakeries
and in sime to popularise wheaten bread.)
(a) Areble land before the mar was farmed as to 36% by omers, 37% by part-
ewmers, 87% by tenants. The corresponding percentages on the Lst January,
1949, were - remariably - 69, 25 and 6 respectively, acccrding se figures
queted by saap efricials.
(b) These referemees are to the Japanese finanoial yoar eading Marok 3lst.
(e) The U.s. fimancial year anding June Joth.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure o. 1
to Tokyoºs Despatch No. 679,
Septamber 29, 1949.
- 3 -
7. The relative cost of focdstuffe to the Japenese has re-
mained fairly constant during the last 12 months at a little over
63 per cent of the average urben fa ily budget. The free sale of
potatoes aná over-quota rice is under consideration. The intention
of the Occunaticn is to increase the official daily ration from the
present 1,440 to 1,525 calories. 0verall consumption at 2,000
celories is reckcned to be only 10 per cent less than before the
war (2, 260 in 1935-40).
8. It may be mentioned here i= pessing thet, tharks to the
health services introduced by the Occupation, the death rate has
recedec fror 1?.? per thousand before the wer to roughly 12, thus
accounting for 2.4 million of Japen's present dey population, without
allowing for the ccuntless lives saved as the result of scarcer
epidemics.
Natural Resouroes Other then Food
9.  the result of ths war nd more recent developments in
the case of China, Japan - apart from fooustuffs - has also lost hor
nearby and ocorcr:ic sourcss of suoh essentiel raw materiels as coking
coal arà salt, and the raw cotton she used to obtain in large quanti-
ties fronm India. Imoorts of coking coul rom the United States cost
B4 million last year (ending Soth June). The fact that Japan, owing
to the shortege of terling rea cotton, must taport the great bulk
of her recuirements fren the Uited States, vhereas she must look to
the Sterlin Area for the disposal of the greater part of her exports
of cotton sccds, is largely responsible for SCiP's serious dollar
probler. The matimu: lccel production of minerel oil is 2 million
berrels; l0-12 nillion ere imported. ven the extent of the area
officially covered by forests, cuoted in peragraph l above, is
grossly deceptive; 8 million acres ere in need of reforestation;
the annuel out of 630 million cubic feet a yeer ccmpares with a
growth of 240 million, et which rete resources of sew logs will be
exhausted in 20-30 years.
10. Japan, on the other hand, can boast of two exceptianal
natural resources: firstly, her labour supply (cheep, industrious,
adaptable), a factor which was largely responsible for the redoubtable
character of the corpetition in the world's expcrt markets which
Japen cet up in her industrial heyday, and one which will doubtless
make iteelf felt increasingly es time marches on; secondly, the
amazing fertility of her soil, thanks to the generous use of fertili-
ser end under the stimulus of the dire need to provide Japan's
teeming population with as large a proportion as possible of its
food requiraments fron local prouuction.
Industrial Production and Foreign Trade
il. General Headcuarters have recently proiuced a new "value
added" index of industrial producticn. W1th 1930/4 * 100 this
reached

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure o. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
reached a peck of 265.ε in 1?44, since vhen it s varied as follows:-
1945
102.0
1946
50.8
19:7
44.3
10
67.1
From 76.ε in September last it rseched 92.1 in April, fel1 scmewhat
thereafter but is now back et 92. The iirprovement from 1945 onwards
is closely related to the fourfold increase of J.S. procurement as be-
tween 1947 and 1943, shown 1= Appendix 1, and deriving, of course, from
increased Congressional a proprintic s. (It should be borhe in mind,
in consi eriny these figures, th.t she populetion of Japan today is
24.8 per csnt hicher tha. the 1930/4 averuge.)
12. Tie terr "iaaustrial proltctien" as used above includes
minin. he correcpondin figures fr rnufacturing und the most ir-
portent macufecturin- incustries qucted below si.ow the extent to which
the tectile roup, per wich the Tited Fiu lom exoort trade suffered
most in the pust, his leceet behind. (Cming to wartime screpping
principally there were oel one millicn cotton spindles operable at
the begirning c? the Ccuup tion. As the result of rehabilitetion, the
present figute is 5.2 millicn ageinst  pre-var peek of 11.5-1a.5 million.)
1944
1045
1946
1947
1948
1949 (5 months)
Nanufacturing
274.9
104.9
34.0
40.1
65.5
£3.6
Metals
239.3
79.2
21.4
35.5
70.8
103.4
Lachinery
£17.5
743.9
67.9
C9.0
108.7
154.5
Cera.ies
C8.3
21.2
37.9
42.3
61.1
84.8
Textiles
10.
13.5
11.1
16.6
19.5
25.1
Chenicals
138.1
40.7
55.5
45.6
78.3
103.6
13. The forein trede fi ures renroduced in Anpenaix 1 spealt for
themselves. ScaP officials are wont to construe then as indicative of
continued progress. On this peint r. Dodge (see paragraph 20 below)
expressed himself as follo s:
n
It is the height of folly to point with pride at an in-
creasing production index or increasing exports which mey
only represent increcsec Urited States Aid, increased sub-
sidies and increased daficits. Too much attention is being
iven merely to peisin; the totels of production and export
vithout regard to costs or net results. Too little attention
is being given to the need for creating the createst possible
net production ani using i orted raw materials so as to
create the greatet possible  ount of net exports."
14. The inportance of the United Stetes to Japan as a source of
supply, even putting asice procurerent from U.S. allocctions, is brought
out in Appendix 1. Before the mar - see peragrenhs 3 and 9 above -
Korea, Formosa, Manchuria and China provided Japan with roughly 40
per cent
RESTRIOPED

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
Daclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Jespatoh No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
-5-
per cent of her imports. The cost of looking further afield for her
many recuirements is greatly accentucted by the elimination of her
merchant marine. It may be mentione in this context that whereas
Jepan paid the eguivalent of 3 a tou for the 50, o00 tons of phosphate
rock she obtained from the Jaranese 1slend of Angaur in 1948, this only
represented a fraction cf her needs, whilst the U.S. price was 24 a
ton, cif. The dollar problex referred to in paragraph 9 above should
be an inducement to Japan to trade increasingly with the Sterling Area,
but it cannot be said that the present negotiations for e new trade
arrengement, to replace the one for the year ending on the 30th June
last, are following a very encouraging course.
Ismorts accounting for 95 per cent of dry cargo trede
baseć on time of arrival by ship (metric tons)
1946
1947
1948
Foods
782,104
1,894,938
2,194,215
Total grain
643,259
1,575,650
1,271,697
Industrial rav nateriels
730,768
2,536,145
4,139,707
Textils fibres
138,852
129,448
169,157
Coal and coke
0
35,049
1,172,426
Salt
301,057
837,734
1,183,869
Fertilizer materials
254,401
1,440,780
745,467
Phosphate rock
197,042
1,134,317
419,051
Nitrate
0
242,933
290,481
15, Exports are too varied in nature to be tabulated here in terms
of volume (but see Appendix 3 fcr values). Two points, however, call
for special mention: firstiy, the blow to the Jepanese export trade, to
the United States in particular, resulting from the technelogical re-
placement of natural silk by nylon; seccndly, the fact that textiles
are still expected to provide 39,; of exports in 1950, of which 50 per
cent cotton, and of the cotton coods a very substantial proportion would
normally go to the Sterlin" Area.
16. SCAP's Econotic Adviser, Dr. Fine, informed Mr. MacDonald thet
he. estimated imports in 1950 at 900 million end exports at $500 million
plus loo million for invisibles (net, presumably). All that can be
said at the moment is that visible trade during the first six months of
this yeer was running at a deficit of 600 million and more, with very
little coming in from invisibles; and thet the Japenese exmort trade is
bound to suffer, and is alreedy su'fering from (i) the change in world
trading from a seller's to a buyer's market, (ii) the recession in the
United Stetes and the loierinc of internaticnal prices, (iii) the
avoidance by the Sterling ree of any dollar liability to Japan and its
insistance thet the deficit of 40 million which it incurred in its
trede with Japan during the year ending on the 3oth June last should
be liquidated in goods, and (iv) the continued delay in the econoric
recovery of Japan's neighbours, coupled with the clogure of the ell
important Chinese market to international trade.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
Inflationary Pressure
17. Although industrial production has been gradually increasing,
as shown above, this achievement has been at a cost quite out of line
with world prices, financed of course by the generous assistance pro-
vided by United States and the consequent supply to local consumers of
foodstuffs and raw materials at prices whioh have borne no relation to
their real value. Labour and management have failed notahly to regover
their pre-war efficlency and there has been much diversion to domestio
consumption of manufactures intended for erport.
18. The slow increase in industrial output has been in marked
contrast with the expansion of the currency resulting mainly from the
cost of the Occupation and of the schemes advanced by the latter in its
Utopian zeal; the repairs to the devaststio: of war and of such
natural scourges as earthquakes, floods and typhoons; Government lending
to cover the deficit operations of basic industries; fiscal irregu-
larities; and last but not least the overtaking of prices by wages at
the end of 1948. The note issue from Yen 55 billion at the end of 1945,
rose year by year to Yen 93 - Yen 219 - Yen 355 billion at the end of
1948. Between June and December of last year the Tokyo consumer price
index (prepared by the Oriental Econonist, April 1946 - March 1947 = 100)
rose from 383 to 459 (20%).
19. At the beginning of this year, however, a happier relationship
was established between supply and demand. The note issue fell to
Yen 295 billion at the end of July and was still at this figure at the
end of August. The consumer price index had risen to 506 by the end of
June, but started to decline thereafter, being 50l at the end of July.
General Headquarters officials claim that they have now got the better
of the inflation, with particular stress on the fact thet wages have
remained comparatively stable during the last six months. (The Occu-
pation has found the need to control wages, if price controls were not
to be invalidated, particularly embarrassing in view of the encouragement
it has naturally given the labour movament. There are said to be 6
million trade unionists in Japan today. Another difficult series of
decisions concerns the extent of the stringency to be imposed on domestic
consumption levels.)
The Economic Stabilisation Plan
20. The check to the inflationary trend is in no small measure
due to the introduction of this plan (announced in December last) and
to the schrewdness and determination of Mr. Dodge, the Detroit banker
assigned by President Truman to advise General MacArthur on its imple-
mentation. The plan, which appears to have been evolved in Washington,
was intended to introduce a keynote of austerity and realiam in local
economio administration and planning, and to pave the way for the intro-
duction of a single rate of exchange in lieu of a yen-dollar ratio for
imports averaging l30 with a comparatively small spread, and one for
exports averaging 400 with a spread from 200 to 600! By the end of
May, after a three month stay in Japan, Mr. Dodge had succeeded in:-
(a) Forcing

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
(a)
Forcing the Jepanese Government to pass a budget
which integrated national, local and special expenditures
in one balanced account. This budget, although it allows
200 million yen for import and domestic subsidies, put an
end to direct export subsidies.
(b)
Instituting a policy of financial retrenchment and
strict control of credit, intended to provoke the rational-
isation of industry.
(c)
Establishing an official exchenge rate of Yen 360 to
the dollar (equivalent to 1,450.80 to the pound sterling)
at which rate all foreign trade transactions are being
conducted. Imported capital can be sold at this rate but
renittances of foreign exchenge are virtually confined to
payments for imports.
21. Results have been remarkably rapid. The reduction in the note
issue, the flattening of the price spiral, the export trend have all been
briefly dealt with above. The dismal Japanese prognostications of the
effects on exports of the new rate of exchange have not been borne out
as yet; anyway, this too was intended to play its part in the forcible
rationalisation of industries which have been living casually (and
often dishorestly, no doubt) on subsidies of all kinds and the fanciful
rates of exchange applied to their exports. hile rationalisation is
proceeding in certain industries - the registered industrial employ-
ment at the end of ay was no more than 400, 000 - the Government has
started to discharge a portion of its enorrous army of civil servants
and transport employees.
22. One of the most important problens besetting Japanese in-
dustry today is the tight money situation, to be attributed mainly to
(a) the tax collection drive, although there is still much laxity in
this respect (an American mission has just issued its recommendations
for the revision of the taxation system); and (b) the complete stoppage
of loans by the Reconstruction Finance Bank, loans largely dissipated
in the deficit financing of current production instead of being used as
intended for capital investment. In place of the R.F.B. Ir. Dodge
instituted a Counterpart Fund which is to receive the yen equivalent of
all U.S. aid imports (about Yen 140 billion in the current U.S.
financial year), these yen funds to be employed in an industrial in-
vestment programme of Yen 52 billion and the amortisation of Government
bonds held by the cormercial banks to a value of 62 billion. An
acditional 25 billion are to be held in reserve to be used as the
Supreme Cormander sees fit. The Fund, therefore, will provide a sub-
stantial amount of credit the use of which can be pretty rigidly
controlled by SCAP and the Japanese Government in collusion to meet
the most pressing investment needs of the country.
23. There
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
molosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatoh No. 679,
Septerber 29, 1949.
8
23. There is a campaign on foot, backed by the Japanese Boonomie
Stabilisation Board, to reverse "the Dodge polioy" on the grounds thet
disinflation is already degenerating into deflation; but the argments
advanced in support of this theory appear to be those of the type of
pusiness man who was doing very well out of American laviohness and who
can have no sympathy for economic discipline. There is certainly no
justifiable cause for back-pedalling and that is the declered view of
the Japanese Government. It will, however, be necessary for Scar to
guard against conditions of slump being created when the full disin-
flationary consequences of this policy make themselves. felt.
Continuance of American Aid and Viebility
24. r. Voorhees, the Under Secretary of the U.S. my, stated
in Tokyo on the loth September, that "from the funds appropriated and
being this year appropristed by Congress, the Army has bought over a
four year period or will buy before the end of the present fiscal year
 grand total of over one billion nine hundred million of relief
supplies for Japan and the Ryukyus alone." He thought that approprie-
tions would be reduced by 20% in the fiscal year beginning on the lst
July nert, or perhaps a little more, and still accomplish their.
eseential purposes as Japan's sconomic recovery proceeds. "I think
that can'be done and it should be done." He refused to prediot the
date of final balance when Japan could be sconomically self-supporting
but believed it would come "beoause there is great vitality and willing-
ness to work on the part of the Japanese people." He saw no reason why
Americen aid and the supervision of that aid should be affeoted by a
peace treaty: "A peace trecty alone isn't going to fesd people."
25. Some SCAP officials and many Japanese doubtless oling to the
hope thet 1953 will witness a really viable Japanese sconomy. This was
argued as feasible in a Five Year Plan prepared twelve months ago by
the Japanese Eoonomic Stabilisation Board, with a standard of living
(allowing for an inoreese in the population of close on 20 million)
approximating that of 1930/4. But the Doard, which has bitterly opposed
the Economic Stabilisation Plan as enforoed by Mr. Dodge, is revising
its caloulations. It has stated that these have been completely upset
by the recent introduction of the new regime of austerity - to aay
nothing presumably of adyerge factors in world trading conditions. It
1s certainly diffioult to envisage Japan living off its own resources
as early as l953 without considerable assistance from the United States,
if only in the form of loans on exceptionally easy terms of repeyment
which the United States, with their political and strategic interests
in this part of the world, would be only too willing to give her. And
even then Japan will probably go through a series of reourring crises-
of the type which the Sterling Area is now experienoing.
I.R.L.
Eoonanic Adviser's Office,
13.9.1949.
U.K.L.M., Tokyo.
APPEMIX 1 Japanese Foreign Trade
2 Japanese Imports
3 Japanese xports
4 Japanese Trade with the Sterling Area

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
Kuclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 679,
September £9, 1949.
-9-
APPEDIX1
JAPANESE FOREIG: TRADE
(01,000)
Exports.
Imports
Deficit
Imports from the U.S.
fob
cif
procured from U.S.
Jepan
Japan
funds (excluding
military diversions)
Sept.45/Dec.46
103,292
305,393
202,101
1947
173,568
526,130
352,562
1948
255,621
682,613
423,991
1949 (6 months)
(Provisi mal)
287,000
583,000 296,000
Trade with the United tates
Sept.45/Dec.46
77,437
297,6E3 *
220,251
101,000
1947
20,090
483,511*
463,421
396,995
1948
65,756
441,763*
376,005
333,838
* Inoluding mlis ry diversions amounting to 59, 751; 7, 794; and
5,429 respectivaly.
U.S. Trade es rercentage of total Japanese Foreign Trade
Exports
Iuports
Sept.45/Dec.46
74.8,0
97.46
1947
11.5%
93.3
1948
25.4%
64.7
RESTRICTED

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatoh No. 679,
September 的, 1949.
-10-
APPENDIX 2
JAPANESE IPORTS
Lillions of dollars
Sep. 1945-
1947
1948
Total
Dec. 1946
Sep. 1945-48
TOTAL
305.6
526.2
683.5
1,513.3
INVISIBLE TRADE
0.2
0.1
0.9
1.2
TOTAL LERCHAINDISE TRADE
305.4
526.1
682.6
1,514.1
Foods
170.2
803.2
316.6
782.0
Grains and flour
79.2
231.8
159.9
470.9
Legumes
0.4
26.1
42.3
68.8
Sugar
0.2
9.7
84.3
94.2
Meat, fish, dairy pro-
ducts
10.7
1.4
3.7
15.8
Other foods
79.7
26.2
26.4
132.3
Industrial rav materials
132.4
209.8
321.8
664.0
Raw cotton
105.0
70.0
98.1
273.1
Raw wool
0
1.8
17.4
19.2
Other fibers and products
0
5.0
12.9
17.9
Rubber, crude end sorap
6.0
11.7
17.7
Oils, fets, wexes
0
3.2
2.9
6.1
Pulp
0
1.1
3.9
5.0
Salt
4.7
12.1
26.1
42.9
Dyes and pigments
0
1.0
3.5
4.5
Drugs and chemicals
1.8
1.2
1.4
4.4
Fertilizer meterials
9.6
67.2
39.0
115.8
Petroleum
10.5
38.0
51.8
100.3
Non-metallic minerals
0.3
2.3
4.7
7.3
Iron ore
0.3
12.0
12.3
Coal and coke
0
0.3
24.6
24.9
All other industrial
0.5
0.3
11.8
12.6
All other products
2.8
21.1
44.2
68.1
Clothing and fabrics
0.9
6.1
22.7
29.7
Oil seeds
0
1.9
6.9
8.8
Machinery
0.1
7.2
0.4
7.7
liscl. drugs
1.8
4.5
3.5
9.8
Other
冰
1.4
10.7
12.1
* Less than 500.
SOURCE: September 1945-June 1948: Eighth Amy quantitative report as
valued by SS/FTC and ESS/RP; beginning July 1948: in1stry of
Finance quantitative report.as valued by ESs/RP. Though striot
comparability is not possible and there are time lags in the
data used, the general trends indicated are reasonably reliable.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
Emolosure No. 1.
to Tokyo's Despatoh No. 879,
September 29, 1949.
-11-
APPEDIX 3
JAPANESE EXPORTS
Lillions of dollars
Sm1945-
1947
1948
Total
Dec. 1946
Sep. 1945-18
TOTAL
106.8
176.3
277.1
560.8
INVISTHLE TRADE
3.5
8.7
18:5
24.7
TOTAL LERCHANDISE TRADE
105.3
175.6
258.8
555.5
Loode
3.2
4.3
12.1
18.2
Industrial raw materials
85.5
30.0
56.8
172.5
Rew silk
58.9
10.8
22.1
89.8
Coal
9.9
8.1
11.1
29.1
Metals
14.6
4.8
11.8
31.2
Fertilizers
2.5
2.9
5.4
Other
4.2
3.8
8.9
16.8
Textilee and manufeotures
5.2
120.5
137.1
262.6
Cotton fabrio
0.2
85.4
91.4
177.0
Cotton yarn
2.6
17.7
6.9
27.2
Rayon yarn and fabrio
1.2
6.0
9.5
16.7
Silk fabric
0.2
6.4
18.2
22.8
Wool yarn and fabrio
0.7
3.1
8.1
9.9
Glothing and other
0.3
1.7
7.0
9.0
All other produots
10.4
19.0
52.5
88.0
Kachinery
5.3
7.1
12.9
25.3
Lumber
1.9
5.8
3.4
10.9
Drugs and ahemicals
1.5
2.1
8.5
11.9
Pottery, clay and slass
1.1
11.4
12.8
Other
1.9
3.1
16.6
21.4
* Less than $500.
SOURCE:
Septamber 1945-June 1948: Eighth Ammy quantitetive report as
valued by MSS/FTO and K8S/RP; beginning July 1948: Min1stry
of Finance quantitetive report as valued by ISS/RP. Though
striet comparability is not possible and there are time laga
in the data used, the generel tremds indicated are reasonebl
roliable.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure o. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 679,
September 29, 1949.
-12-
APPEDEX 4
JAPANESE TRADE WITH THE STERLEIG ARRA
(Thousands of J.S. dollare)
Imports
Exports
Japanese Dulance of
Trade with Sterling
Arsa Countries
Sep.43-
Sen.45-
Dec.48
1948
Dec.48
1948
1945/8
1948
United Kingdom
14,816
5,242
37,949
16,642
+ 23,133
11,400
Colonies
17,566
12,514
29,983
20,009
+ 12,417
+
7,495
Aden
538
538
5,692
3,628
5,154
3,090
Parbados
1
1
1
1
Bahrein
2
2
2
2
B.N. Borneo
208
208
48
48
160
160
Nyasaland
245
211
245
211
Cameroons
1
1
1
1
Cyprus
59
59
59
59
Cyrenaica
37
37
Eritree.
367
367
310
一
57
367
Gold Coast
1,041
591
1,041
591
Jamaica
610
610
↓
610
610
Kenya
Uganda
*
673
673
5,469
4,063
4,796
3,390
Tanganyika)
Malaya
7,144
7,144
937
64
6,207
7,070
Nigeria
14
14
5,362
4,449
↓
5,348
4,435
Rhodesia
508
7
508
7
Sierra Leone
118
38
+
118
38
Singapore
8,621
3,569
9,408
6,166
787
2,597
Trinidad
71
71
71
Zanzibar
65
65
+
1
U.K. & Colonies
TOTAL
32.382
17,755
67,932
36,651
↓ 35, 550
18,895
Australia
8,734
8,006
7,648
2,306
1,086
5,700
Ceylon
264
264
3,496
1,224 + 3,232
960
India & Pakistan* 37, 469
27,726
17,535
9,106 - 19,934
18.620
New Zealand
43
43
764
688 
721
645
South Africa
2,209
2,209
1,097
1,097 - 1,112
1,112
Note 1:
Separate figures are not available.
Note 2:
The fact that identicel figures are occasionally quoted for 1945/8
and 1948 indicates, of course, that there was no trade between Japan
and certain countries (in either one direction or in both) prior
to 1948.
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1
to Toryo's Despatch No. 679,
September 29, 1949
APPEDIX 4 (Cont'd.)
Imports
Exports
Japanese Balence of
Trade with Sterling
Ares Countrieg
Sep.45-
Sep.45-
Dec.42
1948
D00.40
1948
1945/8
1948
Commonwealth Countries
TOTAL
48.719
38.248
30.540
14.421 - 18.179
- 23.827
Burma
1,432
1,432
8,024
1,490
6,592
58
Iraq
8
8
40
40
32
+
32
TOTALBAREA TRDE
82.541
57,444
106,536
52,602
23.995
4.842
TOTAL JAPAN TRE
1.514.136
682.613
535.480
258.621
978,656
-423,992
LAREA'SSSHARE OF
JAPANESE TRADE
5.4%
8.3
19.
20.18
Source: Japanese Economic Statistics, June 1949, Section II.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES OF AMIRICA
Office of
for Japan
894.50/10-449
Tokyo, October 4, 1949
No. 690
REC:D
CCT 27
CONFIDENTIAL - (FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
Action Assi
ACTION
OLI
Action Taked
weeri
Subject: Commerts on Status of Nine Point Economic
INFO
Statilizaticn Program in Japan.
DCR
FE
Date of Action
OFD
ITP
The Honcracle
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Action Office sy
The Secretary of State
RECEIVED
Name of ofri
Wa shingt on.
sem
NOV 2 1949
Directian to
Si::
OFFICE CF LIBRARIES
AND INTELLIBENCE ACQUISITION.
ave rrefer to the Department s air mail Anour
tcn te September 1949 transmitting two coplem o
renor entte Phii: Relat ons Aspects of the Economle Stabru
tion rgun  Japar prepared by the Division of Research fom
East an? instrins this Mission to discuss the report with appro
prst ff     He dquarters, SCAP, with the viow to the
report ine f their  onments. together with those of this Misaion to
the Departa
A copy of the report was made available, on an informal basi
by t Proromis Counselor to Dr Sherwood M. FINE, Director for
Economi cs ane Trale Economie and Scientific Section, with the
quest that he stuiy the report and give written comment thereon
reference to  he Department In agreeing to comply with this roqu
Dr. Fine stat that he was the official in General Headquarter
direct y con erned with Japanese implementation of the Eoonpmlo
bilization Program. Foilowing are Dr. Fine's written comment on
the report:
"1.. In general the report makes a balanced and real-
istic appraisal of the proolem of public reaction to the
U. S. stabilization program. However, it impresses a
reader in Tokyo as being somewhat deficient in not under-
taking at all an evalnation of the views of the present
government and specific responsible leaders concerning eco-
nomic stacilization. In my judgment the obstacles to
0
achieving effective economic stabilization in Japan have
been far more than the mere physical problems involving
S
gross disparitles between supply and demand and the a
ciated econonic phenomena but have been to a signiri
degree complicated and aggravated because of the ant
of the Yoshida Cabinet to a realistic program of coop
stabilization.
n2.
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RNTURN TO DO/B PILAE WITHIN 14 DAYS

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
spat. No.690
-2-
 the repert was prepared several months
: shbly it is serlously out of date. The entire
? nas  course. shifted significantly in recent
 pint where as far as the representative
e-reet as concerned, the most urgent current
 ? disinflation or deflation with its asso-
=mg
Whether or not this evaluation is cor
 il teil However, in the opinion of
inf atronary elements are still powerful
rtance is studiously underestimated by the
roverrment
r  point made on page 4 with re-
 les ralility of imperting high caliber
us onsultants recruited in the United
pu se of vivaneing public enlighten-
  f conommc stabilization, this
ativey nelined Both on the Japanese
present facilities are adequate if
at peasimistic that even the best direc
a p ra an prompt a recasting of govern
wiih regard to ecenomic stabilization
t to the proposal advanced at the
nrerninr the advisability of utili-
par d for certain public works. the
he patt ern pur sued in formula-
a arter appr sach to loans made pursuant to
 fin! fellowe the zeneral approach under-
oomi Cocpuratpon Administration While
 anta? increments to the national divi
:  ffe:ted through meeting the most urgent
 reguirements, the requirement, nonetheless,
ts undertaken on the basis of the
 m loans must be self-supperting This
roures the magnitude as well as the categories
pragerts "
 ing his Mission concurs in Dr Fine s obser
 ustion exists whether the Yoshida Cabinet is so
 ward a reallstie program of economic stabilization,
  Fine, as to complicate and aggravate "to a signi-
 the overall program of stabilization, Other ESS
 whim this point was discussed, said that it might
  propriate to point out that some passive resis
 eronmic stabilization axisted in certain parts of the
rment This resistance, it may be noted, is by no
 . does not appear to be coordinated, and may best
:  inifestation likely to arise among disgruntled
i lals in any country where they are obliged to move
nanneis of thought and action. It would seem fair
 res:stance of this type is probably no more serious
than

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.90)
690
-3
y n:: ed Staies Government authorities in cer-
inection with the implementation of the
 pints raised by Dr Fine. this Mission
 he effrrt that no "high caliber public
t in the United States" appear to be
 purpo of advancing public enlightenment in
womi: stabilization In our opinion,
y wake to the need for desirable public-
 mntm of the economic stabilization pro
ess his slso done a reasonably creditable
iin  views on the subject report. it
firt sentence therein appears to be
n he lasis of developments since the
 int effert For the purpose
rrou ed herewith:
 he the oomis stabiliza
asred osition from the
 n that is
pa astoas and is a potentral
iuplmeatat lon ef the stabiliza
 e of the Unuted States
have arees, to the original re
hasd Tne vrewpoint expressed.
 e Amer an press orreapondents.
soerally delleved that cheir
dissatisfaction with the program
wee pealized under phet pr gran Most
  based aimost untireiy upen trans-
ro witnout part pouhar regard to the pee
must as hoe n ne otter Soates.
s
 to large headl ines. Addit ionally,
t iways taren into consideration the
 affilia ions of the various Japanese
sonont and Seiontific Sectlon, the
us chargd with t he mplemenation of
ram Insofar a SCAP is concerned, does
the program by the Japanese has
 a recunt Ess staff meeting, attended
 Jeneral W F. MARQUAT, Chief, ESS,
  rmed most remain on he alert lest
  saotage tre program by follow
pr.  Senerai Marquat. however, expressed
I achievements realized under the program,
ta reater efforts were required to maximize
for  ne of the program s nine points.
In

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.81)
Pony:
l u  Depar ment will find
rndledpertEcono
ana unar
ision
er So
d.Co1nuet
nesary
a froroe internal
  hlevoment of a bal-
tecontinuad to
tribute to
copy
 in s on the oubject
tilrrattonThi
Ess division chiofe,
e any propoed
 view of prepering
. sry voorlhees. Although
aintnt sutant to Mr. Voorbee
tadeto prepare inotend
 Prom, is thought
 ram? wme interest. esp
 gress rprs. copies of which
s Vissin s desparh no 245 dated
menti? the Nine Point Reonomie
nversator dth officere of this
 sat sfaction with the progrese mede
 program Por Instance, Finance
whon disrussed the program recently,
ngsrried ut successfuily tat that
caiven .se to a serious currency shortage,
rasiecerr in Japanese financial nd business
-. wover, expressed the opinion that inoread
 parid uris wouid provide welcomerellef 
rrency notes and theroby stimalate mde
rie aider  hat, from the Japanms side, it woald
swereo perit the Japaneto pley  reter port
i  rspct t the u of these de.
it st cnec it respe:t to the Ioshide Cabinet's attitede d
ine econcaic asi.ization progrem, Kr. Athi uams, chief, Mé
COPESITIAL

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.85)
Tekye s Depotet 
Ortoter
 Affaere Eurean. Yinistry of Fereign
  un cor that Premier
 rrous manistries to give full support
? toet pregram
Mr. Uyama. who said
 lire tive sent by the Premier to
piy fficial op  sition to the program
ms n roly by rertain indivi-
ai that these offi
Yos as had net beer satisfied
whu Mr Uana said, at times
1he e onomic stabili
Uyama volunteered
verncent officials
tbilieatien program,
bevrtation
 minize da anese
 lian dees exist. and
y vrioua poli
 muni st ration.
asing austerity
nbalance,
and ar dent
in opular
workthe
igntion, an
ration that
 ae urgent and
n as possible.
lort proion, that
:t pe.ng successfully
ote program
and trat the
nomic posi-
to effect.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.86)
En losure No. 1 to Despatch No. 690,
Cotster . 1949, from the Office of the
U. S. Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
RESTRICTED
 the subert Comments on Status of
 Pt Mconom Stabilization Pro-
rter Searetary.
 apan has
tees which
lanced
The
leave deulines
:  arproved tax
 pressure
e has de
t rade has
t ly to take
nes.
nthough semewhat
 in world
he abave
or mave not been
of fd clothing
 ror mun
 mnimum reguare-
the stabalization
  deficit financing
rurreasys) last November was
rJapanese 
adily ade to demands for
liof fr m the government in
hhes cr s
Joupled with the
ar lrveling ff of the effective
 pea presure for wage increases
the 
pri as broken and a period of re-
lative stability voae.
Subsepuent ly the mplemerta ten of the nine-point stabilization
directive issued in De ember P9as the work of the Dodge Mission in
the

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclcsure No. 1 to
Tokyo's De patch . 690
October 4 290
-2-
ehenei tax cellection pregram re
 meroment budget reduced goverrsent expen-
 f ef exss money y completely
f r  etm sphere of the econony.
 ma: situation is characterized by stability
vi y aly mederate increases in effective
hly w for mploees inmanufac
ly 4 percent greater than
 in mining industries, the June
 pry no change from the begin-
 This stal le wage picture reflects stabili-
a rreased cpposition on the part of em-
 supportei ty inability of both government
 luficit finance measures. In ad-
min stry  rationalize lts costs also acts
s A ontination f the present
l as I eg as goneral prace stabili-
a pees r poe confronted vath in
tsmrs risen at an
f porroat wnre vhe beginning
rase was pranned ae par of
 ress purebesins power Staple
y ts peroeut in orter to batance
he priee weaone dang this
f sbee leee and the general
or ef stebli consumer
se e catlisent prier do
prp. peperoussions of
pres for pliminataon of price pontrots on
 the rree prrce pontinuation of
Priry metres ef priring indicates an increase
 lesr that s pereent, part of which might
mess rnly existent besween preducer and
3 s plitl al pressure is being exerted, however
reeter increase reperoussions of which might
e n pro
 r vlimination or reduction of price subsidies
 mtsidi-s to special industries and steel which
: ffe on Living costs in Japan. The principal
rg atirmeg attention from the consumer stand-
rs imported staple foods and fertilizers.
 r  d nrei artions effecting consumers have been
 ffi al prices for fresh vegetables, firewood, and
siik. Ea  of these comm vdities was handled by government distribu-
tion with the : sulting pnflexibility in price when supplies appear
to appr ximate demand. Price controls were removed when government
pur hasing and distribution of these commodities was terminated. The
vegeta'l~
RESTRICTED

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.84)
y upn deccntrcl but subsequently
trecontr 1 prices. Phe test
 wter season, although
 fr firewad will rot rise above
d e mprd
Ir  rstrrbution and al
on s by far the most
forthe government
 lnlget lumuation could not
fal in his fiscal
trom decreased
ntrels wall eliminate
wmaybe
nsumption.
r lea and zinc. In
ofmisrellaneous
This action
thethetest of
e he strength
e tn shor
rify percent
op n romoval of
 veme in effr
ser
l of
ibsorb
at ther bast
a  l un
o for ancreased
 praecs w
   ma
n pregram
 rently made
r scade unemploment.
on r the week
tu so.coo govern-
y nt August le49 and private
t toal number of unemployed
i mlf a millon by the end of August
al unemployment as not serious
 reseealle developments are likely
or tutes a critical problem.
It

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. I to
Tokyo's De spat ch No. 690.
October 4 1329.
 sld b- emphes . b ver. that reiiance on figures for
empo r sode    nomic conditsone is not as appre
ted States. In the United Statesy the
sre paii employses in non-agricultural in-
esin depression in the United States,
 f  m mpl ment rapidly reate a sub
Land, mall p prretors and unpaid family
  porns. and a recession
 ne i the mumter of employed
unor ach alitins the number tends
p (1) Enomie pressure upon
l  entries into the later force of
( The wide varicty of small scale
  mrity in Japan provides
   s kind if only for a brief
  oen ghargd frm a ot as paid
 workers in non-agricultural
s yases stablish themselves
 frs half  1949 ha
Eaprts or the six months
 S.  Neressary imports
cavn avd iarle in sufficient
prrre iy f n dollar areas and have
 and other anufactured
rrmreas. The dollar proble
n taas dat reyeal and stresses
s rn radCne has been
a he hae Srates the raw materials that
?panese arcial self-sufficiency,
trede agreements with countries
 air verall trade and to stimulate the
a  paed for an sterling or under open
s hange rate of 360 Yen to one dollar
bas teen ar happier than generally anti-
fods n groups ef comodities arranged
 ex g ras praculy n effect leads to
  exchange ate has producted the
in rp t infor:ng the stabilization ef
m. The sluap in new contracts following
  ris commcdities in most cases to the
 th  ratics. Just prior to the setting of the
v ceachet peake entirely out of reason with rela.
pwacvery trend, Since such purchases
  many ema toor serus drops.
   y al exports demonstrated
note  che par: spread ator, apanese government sources. All-time
post-wa: highs have been made.
of

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.87)
Enclosure 
Tokyos each 
Cctober 4 19.?.
e ben the worid-wide decline and
its together with the
Fomling the negotlation of a new
bene gr bases have been cut back
testai f new ntre ts nego-
ie firet affe.t in reduced
Telegraphic ad-
Agest appear to reflect
 a vessels
usone must awatt
dan sfreign
 enked an large
tt As a whole.
 large amounts
 ary surses
mpetatron in
 Ch s
tn the same
sreated an
 wel
fa bitter
through Hong
aused by
Dodge
cut standing
2347
tme of budget
tdeetary situation
ns d reporting of
f  budget lamatations.
rm has been obliged
This reglavion applies not
remont enterprises, Kodans
tale the cbligataons system is not
wll. If the allccations and
n he rst of the year as
should be ne carry over of
red in previcus years.
as that budget-d seems likely.
Tallicn surplus will be realized but
(3) Debt

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclesur-
Tokye s a!
jtber
the budget.
e retire-
Parters 
Phis is
is and
led
let
wit.ugh
y
e! to arrive
wt mre than
r hasing and di
financial
intc the budget
he first time
vd plan; they
igetary-imposed
 that might
ie Such
w were
stabilizing
li s in cach
 sits for any
Counterpart
in! Jo uni ations
A
duled for an
tr idenced by the
rrve for diroct
 lange sufficiently
led e1r allotment for bor-
thebudget a net incre
ina lng-te
heir rt long and short-term
borrowar  fr  Dp Pua (ther prime source of credit)
amuntedry
. ?r the period Apri1 1 -July 31 com-
pareidtllions and an incre
during th sam: per:o! last year f  7.? billions.
Treasury fur is are being managed so as to stimulate comorcial
Lendin The  vernment en puraged ty SCAp and implemonted by actiot
on the part ? the Eank of Japan is following a policy of shifting Lond-
ing functlons from the coverrment to the banks. Some of the moves not-
able i: tius connectien are:
(a) Reduction in interest rates.
c) Augmenting the pertion of Treasury depoaits known
as "designated deposits."
(c)
Distritution of treasury balances among commercial
banks.
(d)
Picking up by the Bank of Japan before meturity
dates of bank-held RFB debentures.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.90)
Zndlosure No. : to
Rokyo' Despat:h No 690,
October 4 1949.
- 7 -
Tayis are faverble in relation to estimates. During h
first fuur mn. f:s1ar 1949-50, collections amounted to 22.3
per  rs mpared with 16.6 and 14.1 pcent
  fav ble showing thie year result
raincluding prosecution
SOme
ns in
Japan has reached
nt . lun of export sales and to
m  nomyan afford. The phyaical
 r!lenk in the general cono
M: p! asiIs urrently directed toward more
1 ti rt improvement of quality
i! and intensified effort
ti r has shown only moderate
isnded to level off in
I rlustries such as rolling
rgeiydependent on gover
lu n ingovernment expn
m iok to export l
75
1s 1:v? utput
 i i rn  opre sel rative to the general
aveage an'lave r  ly i  in reases. This situation can be
expartel to nt nut he for seeable future without significant
impr vement In rease1 : mpetitior in world markets, currency diffi-
rulties, and large st p: les? firi shed goods are some of the factors
tindering expa si f span s textile activity.
It is appa: ent, tten that the stabilization measures and the
Dodge Miss un reconmendations have been successful in stabilising the
economy and providing & more sound structure from which a self-supperting
er onomy may be huilt though inflationary elements are by no. meane elim
sary reational zation of industry and create favorable interial eondi
tions for expansion of exports and achievement of a belanced ecomege
Vigilant surveiliance must be continued to anticipate any changed com
tions that mught contribute to renewed inflationary tendencies

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 690,
October 4, 1949, from the Office of the
U 3 Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
RESTRICTED
on the subject "Comments on Status of
ne Point Economic Stabilization Pro-
rm in Japan"
PC
ARS
TH ALLIED POWERS
Srenraft: Section
15 August 1949
Acnneve Economic
E LIDATED BUDGET AT THE
TALING OF EXPENDITURES
VNT REVENUES. INCLUDING SUCH
AAPPROPRTATE
ture progr ums included
 whd
san ror price subsidies
 ar tems to the sub
billion
AH F TAL COLLLCTION AND IN
HALPRE SECUTION OF TAX
 As 1948 now have
xonths of 1949 indictments
rrine the same period in
 pratere was negligible.
 the hin courts, and appeals
he a tivities of this group contri-
p revonues recorded in the fiscal
TO ASSUR PHAT EDP ECPENSTON IS VIGOROUSLY LIMITED TO THOSE
 REY OF JAPAN
redit extension the Policy Board
he  f n
re of the purposes of this
rea. llas for the Central Bank in order to
er ment weneies and the banking
e test nterest of tee national economy.
Sin nnew loans have been made by the Reconveraion
Finance ans the funds peing employed to meet RFB guaranteed obliga-
tiens of commer ial banss ant the retirement of RFB debentures falling
due
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. ? to
Tokyo s Despatch 
Octeber
101.0
2-
t a urit:es ans capital stock. and sale from
 An: Honeply Law, totalling over 40
ntne tabization program
lrs vireareases tark credit ex
pan
  AH WAG STABILITY
viter enee te th "three principles"
noenment subsidies
alizn wages and ha
cnessar in Japan.
tit a more realistic ap
 masoment bave recognized
  he frmewore of ability
in t agreement signed
rparty nciliation on 4
r and the Japan Ship
A OF EXISTING
to assist the
Te  prcontrole from
: ffe a transfer of
of e price strue
deman! nave developed
chne slectrical
i fpols supplies have
aalu ux eption of
ca  Zaibat u securities
tiro reorganization
 sephorng off pur
tumer price
ONLS AUD TIGHTEN
  EXTENT PHAT SUCH
DHLIATHD TO JAPANEGE AGENCIES
ws recrganized to inte
 autrizing the Japanese Govern-
n varyn pr entages. depending upon
aceeds of their export trans
  nhe vailable for foreign
dena. to reasing export sales.
 HE PRESENT ALLOCATION AND
HE ND OF MAXDGZING EXPORTS.
apane were iastructed not to permit allo
cation
s  export manuf icturers, or the use of
previously

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure No
Tokyo s Despat 
October 4
--
preay
riais for expert production, until
lettor ef redit or the equivalent.
 dognated raw ma
a'sw established for the wool
it of indiviaual mills was
ls 0 of operable capa-
oratns fali below 50%
ir further allocations.
pas of he textile field.
LAL INDIGERNOUS HAW MATERIAL
pdurtion in 110 basic com-
s finished products.
ndustrial programs
 ns of the accelerated
r entagea without im
ty or the Occupation
 1949 has shown
simmedities such
ydro-electric
Tris program
s ilitles of the
ritionalization
 produstion cost of
ommodity prices
aled and the pub-
bat pll projects
an
 for presentation
apanese Sovernmentto take
apl food rationing sys-
ation population. The
minated 175,000 ghosts.
w  their food require-
n cons mers to partial
rned primarily wdth the en
perational efficiency of the
Economic

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosur
Tokyo s Desatt
O-tober 4 194:
ucatorial efforts on
started investigations
xs in about 22 690 cases. The
 sis xaarket ases at the rate of
ieinp stpie food and price

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.84)
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
N
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
OIVISION
Ge DeIp
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
C0-1 1949
4
M
2083
ACTION: FE
INPC
DC/R
A/M
CONFIOENTIAL
EUR/X
EUR
NEA
FOR
JTP
(FD
Secr ay of
0-NA
ashin,tor.
noaiter
08
No. A 256, Octo er 7. 19.
4
(t irgran  rn .
Ot14
5
A247. septemr 20, 194
10
ai roae in ts tee.
01FE.NA
tu t l    
son stated in a of 
10-
 to DC/R
Consid Japs  bere
7
by he 1 of Noth 
4
Deputy Ohief of tit issi st
6
nese  toh prewar t even ptt in
with Pis. issio: vith resp t c ceone ic
prion po depart te to bata  o et.
advis i eths ceus 
2.1
rijno nds to d souen the to are str as
van ard, tijrondo waoried  nn
well guainted on develo ront in d va
were a wdously lookin forvrt s rine
in res onse to guestica by soto io 
intere sted Japanece had fire on to
preaun ply had made connectis er
Fobacco  onopoly
A-249, Sept. 29, he 
uesti n." At ccial funet.
ask Fr Kaneshichi HaGDA.
still interosted in having
prise, referonce in ine ce
suid  it Preader pomitivel
that  pup's cou en s on tobaces 
shelve matuer ind indsely;
solutie as and te such so i
rri at
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—ThIs copy must be returned to DC/R central les wkhr motation of action taken.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.82)
lokyo': A-256,
vetober 7, 194.
-2
whict culd be vied to a tase
1.
statennt de . is ion'
C.
cussios betweet in-nnerf
onopo y Public r oration.' vo efce
Jompan. had st mogotia
that P emier mi  ave le:
Lovion int
whisl pens in, 944,
privat: enterpri.e. eanw
officic ls in conie and ntific
Jr conducted le
, 
Pobicce Comeane s L aliy ut rot
3.uestic c ossir
dessatch no. t. ob. 30,
entil
sitle hirments  anese r to
cedin reportsr tis queepo
i.
made i s nor mauly
Ff.
b:
indicat ion yet r  ved by issie as t
2
cuarters may make wh res  navi
2
Pruascls and The pe
L Finenci e dow  atent 
ce on Cot , anded
cotomie
 U., Chief.
of 4, 0) house   b
made ir s to nctrn 
Instear be instre actin
providing for este ment
and rene houses tu scudati our one
1.1.C
allovances under  bept o.y
that 2o houses  ht be
year (mich commee pril
He pointed out tat pental  nt
settin yen equivai nt, int  nr com
of occupation pecanel Pres rels vo
reccipts since mover facilin cou
with acceptable on yen curr
5. Harquatasnts 
Jeneral Parquat, r ferrinm
 ne so rd submite to hin
that rd, note y apore 
e addel trat  runetir
organt: rsion
at cone
are 
sellrio

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.82)
Tokyo's i-256,
October 7, 1949.
3.
too much time was md by
pate in ii scussions  applic
chiefs cou d spen tine
6. iS Hopes
 metin, roferre
ort
dustry,   expres
udnion
id J
tion by a: emptin
and
added thrt thereed
would nlo btedly 
 releer
local Amer can trae r. F
Commerce  vision n.ed to eet t
25 por c n hi mer . correst
ne
sieel in ts were s. vet in
steel im c.ts wure
fec
statemen weretr
Frorta
and stee! o PI ily
to ake  es he
recent
7.onamic  li ation
General yuat 
:to ree
trenentent in cour
made in e patci 
lation o conomic
V. RitY, oputy ho 
b0
there w ay oth
econonie astions,
C.211
that, unt diret
remi
Ferred  y Japa:
division ctiefs do
Govt whith had com  h pi
Progras or had oth r: hor
lieadquarte's in werk  pl
clusion resched, nw chat
economy are in dir
Premier is foliowi  ey of
no signicicant funet  to por
discuss 1  Japanor
would work with aeed
connectien hati:i of in
mentioneds possiti infe
that &ger.
poae tnJusu
vi aion to   circuter coerin
revtston 0,1f
cet

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.81)
loxyc' a . .250,
Octobor , 1949.
of inuivi luals, sin a iplo
s, accreditt
Japanese lovt will i cequirer
so take s s f
contr i rer all  y and
o aove
as i lon tic sect sue.
3C
ven con
ay be p inted cae sris cs. wstaor th
21.
roturn i igratio
ased 
.CV
ITI ba:
5oort
Cnde Invto
iena ado and
(
is snow
bids for nwnerou:  oities
 cons  u
wrich hat beon i:    in pr
rement pr gra 
S forein trade : als p
ss for madw. 
selling va anese
parti
 to h 
and sn oneta, w
eh
that. in view ef   see h and lis 
porte o? slow-movinodit
 would be unvi se.
terly thet, now tho tontere
e Fund mass
sitle fo. carefi   rel
unds,
inventories thate ur
Lterlin
Irave yf pureh  st
view of TrI reeale nce no
Ii previ ae 
or inali ity to a  s compl
i
nowever. Fisure . Lher
11
tas is ion ane t ste
against cerican c  ve wi
 ffil 
tinuanes of oil or  ont 
aea neg tiators t  nee no i
market for texti sy tbuxtile oins thrin
sell at markup of ueh as 1 por cent
11 Other Foreica rade
. (1)
ston be sent to ia in mide mbur for m
and Plan Hone v that t reee i a
(2) 1rou sed miseio Paki ces bee.. 
that missions alsx pecoed  rance  s
sary before clearmme can be
ied
sibility. pointir t hat
at Yakistan cottor juse
in: for vay to expan trade
le e sults is thatrea
500
chf e. briocer/e esdensticser.
ini.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.92)
 DS-322
7-1-48
OUTGOING TELEGRAI
INDIGATE
Collect
3 P.M.
Department of State
Charge Department X
CONTROL
CONFIDENTIAL
Charge to
CLASSIFICATION
3069
OCT 13194
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo,
Info: Army Chief of Staff,
For Acting Political Adviser.
503
894.50/10-1349
JAP ECON Weekly reports JAP Ministry INTERNATL Trade Industry
2
has proposed system similar prewar FO trade ASsOCs be established
after abolition floor prices to control activities exporters.
DEPT believes return to control by private ASSOCs in preference
to JAP GOVT supervision unwise. Private controls, as attested by
prewar ASSOcs, may open way to elimination competition, price-fixing.
to protect least efficient producer and imposition production quotas
making difficult maximization JAP exports and in long-run diminishing
N
JAP ability compete effectively FO markets. UR conments requested.
5
Ashecon
we ()
WON
(n..3)
0
689
ACHESON
5
FN
FE
ITP:IR:HBarger
CP
ITP
DISTRIBUTION
5w
(OFFICES ONLY)
DEBIRED
10/7/49
FE:NA:NHemmendinger;lk
CTW
Ace attacled
10-1349
CS/H
CR
CONFIDENTIAL
OCT
CLASSIFICATION
1.08
Corrections made on this original MUST be mado on all
copies before delivury to Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RÉCORDS
2
3124
M
ACTION: FE
ATHGRAM
INPO
DCR
SAM
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
EURX
EUR
CONFIDENTIAL
Dato ef
E
mailing:
October 15, 1949.
ITP
CPD
Rec'd:
0ct. 19, 1949 2:51 p.m.
UNA
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
NA
Roailin
Secretary of State,
8
Washington.
6
0120
No. 267, October 14. 1949.
NA
5
(This airgram suppluments this Misaion's
A-256, October 7, 1949. and earlior air-
grams in this serios Requost distribu-
tion be limited to Departxont for reasona
stated in A 21 of January 28, 1949.)
Sirectic to DC/R
1. Japan Presontly Not Interested in lA oking Coal Mr. Wilfred
PRYOR, general managor of Kailan Mining Adainistration (KMA), Britiah mining
49
concern which has developed rich North Chins coul deposits near Tangahan,
Hopei Province, visiied Tokyo Oct 7-13 for primary purpove of investigating
posmibilitles for sale of KMs ccking coal to Oc upied Japan Pryor asvertedly
informed in Economic and Sciontific Section (Ess). General Headquarcers, that
whereas there did not sppear to be any particular political connisorstione
which would prevent ESs from authorizing Japanse Govt to purchau:  MA coke
there did exist economic factors which made it mpossible for Japur precantly
to acquire much coko Pryor stated.to officers of this Misslon tiat he was
told by ESS officials concerned that Japan now has supply of american and
other coke sufficient for abcut 12 monthe' consumption, and that ESs had re.
cently cancelled several contracts with American coke suppliers, which: action
involved payment of penalty charges. Pryor indicated that he had greatly
hoped Japan would bo able to take minimum of t0, 000 tons of cokine coal
valued at about 200, 000 pounds, which sum urgent.ly needed for purchase of
stores and supplies, debt service and paymont of salaries. He aaid that
future prospects of KMA wore exceedingly unfavorable, with Administration
now being forced to make decision with respect to future operations in North
China. Special despatches concerning conversations with Pryor baing sub.
nitted to Dept separately
2. Telegram Sont Regarding Copper Shipments to Europe Reference ito
(3), A-256, Oct. 7, concerning possible transshipuents from Lordon axi nowrp
T
of Japanese copper to matellite countries. CHo 3cAP on Oct  sn ve g
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notatlon of action taken.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.81)
ata herein be roterten
rl attane at ndon
made co SCA? in crder
traing firms involred
ontatned in teleg pre
ept ion of netes of en
At wookly sss coaff
Magor General  Y
a ine that me ut avored
arrngoaenta wit Porel
Gnal J
at  that IA nat kep
 . sde agreement con
 PICLLE. Chtef.
c rel lowedlicy
stedly madeh
y feet that 1. SS
area agreeme 
tr some progrer in
tg rea market might
point soparatly
 Cservere Refer ence
garding dasire of ESS
mgesent nepotiations
n ss ad sterling area
crmitted to attend
we both to Esa and
er negottatlon vould
ly complots swmery ct
put shed in loca! paper
v cirec t sant
 expresaed on
al' since it is on
ta e preater part in
orgn countrioa
ibo with regard
 vnt mendly to tdee or
CO:

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.82)
151.
à 267
11
redRefernce thd
71949 entitled anes
wl ds  selon, in its capa
ra prepared plan providing
a tor trace promotion and
rovod plan, and pro
 b sont out by thnis Nissdon
 Isat In. Robert STEBUrrH.
o n temporary detail.
e ppropriate officials
 o rereatation of plan
apateseRtpresenta ives
ying en negotiatons
eons contained in
iceso o n to provide for
apnhanber has pro
o invements 
s mn in Ja be
in o to corer local living
beigconsidered i
nsing for such eemp
 Diet scheduled to
n r at su
slston dacided some tine ago
ias remendations.
a rted as pornting out that
Ive vapanese caise for
mich diserirtnatus in
an aaber cnsult
ualy satisfctory
P tn wek annu
 omnt arly ex  ed
erad problan of oxport
arbate thouill
i at firee to
ry ho export llcense
anet vering in ESS, hope
poorencely at inst nco
erim plar for li ated
 of bo range program

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.80)
Coky:. 1.267,
ctobe it, 194
-4-
which coutd place admin re pon of  iscal controis n hande of private
ar kin eyte subject  s rveillance by Foreign Lxchane Control Board
Lt im planl have rt ined presont fiscal controls, and
ad le o prestt system v sio. for prograuin; and alloc tion to con-
cuneca of priv e ioport
o plun. elieved nos  be inconsistent; in
r pian  been a it son  hav constituted step toward long
 an no er cotionForen Prae and Commerce Division
ius cien orim p  it aproars tnat ostablishment of new
at will ong aying ofricials state
 ho ha e op  ari to any plan that would
nt cet con.1 horit in   ess lor protracted perdod.
o of eli Aremment Chief of Staff
 es
te 4 ve as reoried that draft Sterling
  wic as raa1tuh despatch no. 708 of
d wi n veer hiel of Staff has given no
 . an t ap ars uniikely that draft will
o ted tain ie Pture For pott's infomuution, should be
ointe  s ol ot cil coniert ally exprese dissatisfaction
in e appeude
rrengeare hotdeng shae fi gures for scap pre-
fici ticy of s. however, is thas
be
  bre rade log las and that opt imistie
tl ondvidence of need for more
en
dreton f Belgian Mission in sua
2
 forail excep highly essential
aod
he an rá or n dapu soates that, while he sees
hishe
reme  caunet cize further dollar ex
cor
 e i ver oapan s ood lntentions
1.6.
 r pous derable visa troubie SCAP
 erhhe aproved version of
I  m las prchases oy Japan to total
siidcononic Adviser in
v.th eneracly optimistic
of trade between pan,
b.CD
oshr er/ cen
JF.
10

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
ÍNCOMING AIRGRAM
aloolp
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATION6 AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCN
NA
AIRGRAM
4301
hoalin
Action 
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
Date of
10/25/49
CONFIDENTIAL
mailing:
October 22, 1949
NA
Rec'd:
Oct. 27, 1949; 2:41 p.m.
1
BA
FOR DEPARTIENT USE ONLY
ACTION:
FE
Socretary of State,
INPO
DCR
ashington
894.50/10-2049
EUR
A-276. Octobor 20, 1949.
ARA
F
(This airgram supplements this Xission's
ITP
A-267, October 14, 1949, and cerlier air-
OFD
grama in thio series. Request distribution
OLI
be limited to Department for reasons stated
in A-21 of January 28, 1949.)
1 Forongn Trade Advisory Yission Conoluding Work. Spacial
mission hoadod by Mr. Ormond FREILE, Chief, Industry Division, Far
Eust Branch, Office of Undor Secretary of Army (see item 4, A~233,
Sept. 15, 1949), has been engaged during past four weeks studying
vurious eapects of Occupation's trade policies. Mission, wh!ch ox-
pocts to complote its work by Oct. 28, does not intend to pisuuce
single report, of its findings but merely to submit to Economic and
Scientific Section (Ess) rocommendations on various matters in momo-
randum form According to Mr. Edward W. DoHEhTY, State Dept repre-
Bantative in Mission, principel reconmendation will be one favoring
olimination of exoort floor prices, this recommendation lending sunport
to decision upparantly already reached in ashirgton. However, meabers
of Mission roportedly in disagreement over nature and extent of con-
trols to be aubstituted to prevent flight of capital and so-called
"dump  j" Mission has alao been asked for its rocommendaticns on au
KS proposal to introduce a special yen currency for use of forei
businces comaunity in Japan. Commerce Dept representatives in Liasicu,
it may be noted, are studying procedures designed to facilitate ex-
pansion of private foreign trado. Members of Mission, according to
Doherty. confess to having some feeling of frustration over their work,
this being attributed to lack of precision in preparation of Mission's
terms of reference and agenda, which not even chairman or Mission hau
boon in posision to supply.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—ThIs cöpy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
ATDENTIAL

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.85)
Tckyo 3 A-275,
Octee ir 20, 1349
-2.
StiF uunounces Meintenance of Yen-Dullar Rate Ceneral Aead-
que ro, s d cn Jct 15 issued statenent to effect thet no stange 
yen a llar rate of exchauge pas conterplated Thie sanouncenent
app cont  proantr I by news despatches fror. U S. mhich gave courlict.ae
repu s as to stitale of U S. Govt officiels in lashireton regaruing
queon of yon ccvaluation Particularly disouietirg was United Ye
despatch fror Ner York wiich quoted unnunen ighly pleced bank exocu
tive as st ating toot my uegs io that scoaar or later it (i e. yen
dol rc) v;1i be devalued about 20 to 30 per cent.* statemeet
linh  up wit) spee lation regardcng raturn t) Jugen or ar Jeoeph 
et s 'a auv ser on financial mattera lp such a way es to give
unp sie ooge Lald sisilar viewe. Roceipt of p despateh here cauntd
Jet I lrsacquerters to isaue statament to effect that eeneral
xec  Uk todey tiasunced nuequivocei ly that uo dovaluetion or taa
p e ya  outamplated  Personal radiogrem sent on pricrity
os   by Pajor Geperal W. Y. MAR UAT. Chier. s. to Uuder Se
ret  of Army Veorifis tadicsteo that decision to tasve stat en ent
tek: 'an e c asc tence of the slented sad prsjudiciel report cacried
 Un.ted  ves fron Noe York todey au the rr sulcins bew Ieormen
ron ion een uir  rder aich such erronecus Americer deecatches orupe
t  Jepn saderally expscted here that anpouneemant ot no cheng
I  delier cate would be coupled with aunoanceent cf olinnpetion o
eioo locr prices, po meatio. bonever, made reseraing floor prtcen
moas e ls boen largely ia doldruns sir ce cevaluation of
ster   par ns to be seer whotber orss Oct. 15 statener xi
sufis e to lispe. uacertai ty among traders Learwhile, it may 
noten that malutczance of progent yen doilor rate vill afford po orfu.
stimd as to ft reher much teeded rut oralizataou lt Jenanose ox ert
indua ries
 Japuweso Propose Treating SovrxportrIil as Prirate Firm
Reference 1tom (3). A 173, Juiy 2. 1949, ent:tled "CovhmorrFr Hopon
to Aoquire roperty tn Tokyo." Japanese Govt's Forcimm fuvestnect
ear has, during paat months, carried on fruitless discussions with
Scvct Miesion hore us to whether SoVax nTF fL snould be considered
Jovle: Covt agoncy or private fim Soviet : Isaion has steadfastly
1niaineu thet lilr. corpany Is not orricial agency of oviet Cort
t as not up ied documents supportins that eleir reguested t
Tannu so authoritias According to statements mace to Economic Cour
aulor by Mr. Atcuhi UYAMA, Chief. Eccnomic Affolrs Section of Politicu.
Atfalrs Bureat, loNoFr, Foreign Investment Comrisolon hss now decided
to va idace SOVl ORTFIL s application upen receipt by Jepanese Govt

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's A-376,
October 30: 1949.
-3 -
of fcrmal ote fram USSR Gopt through Goneral Heade r ars, SCA), te
the effect thet: (e) USSR Govt shall pot cla m for 3OViX ORTTIL! or
1te parscuiel any rigits, privileges cr immunities gunurally cocorded
uader inte natiopel law to forolg govt agencies or crsonnel ubtached
thereso. and (b) U.SR Govt shall not claim. for SoVEx O rrFIIl or its
perconne) any epecial treatneut in relation to all ousiness acs:vities
incivdine, but rt linited to, taxation, legal dispives, properv
rigtta, ot ler tbeu the treatment which is accorded in like cases, under
Japasose lana an: regulatioas, to United Natlons nat onale eugaged 1s
busioesr sutivit) es in Japan. Reaction or Soviet Mision to Japanese
propoual evaitec vith considerable taterest
4 Ieccace: ration Ordure Suspended Fending R: onsiderntion.
isaion r I atrd confidentislly thut daconcentra, os orders trane-
mittcd to tmp riel Fiber Company and Hckkaldo Dairy Cooperative
(ausputci: .o 57f of Auguat 25, 1949) have been suspandad pondlng furthe.
inr: i, i..ci ss ressult of petitions to General NacArthur. Ono of tao
pat:tloss wan vit as itted by Minlster of Internatioaal frade aid Inat t:y
(I?) vit streeg reconmendation for fevorable action. Both dacon
ceutraticr order: involvs nuar mowopolies, and were eprroved, it in
reltelly rpor.  by uuacimous vote of Decoacantra on Review Bosrd
Jact bst sct mould bo sucpeaded aftar such eletorate and anparertl.
fins: rvi on tttarestlug iudicatiou of wey wiad is blowing; Mrt mey
Dow yurlmpe be tipected to go iato acticr for some of its other lost
cal: es, sucn x uvi val ot export assóciations
5 Tty Secks Control over Foreign Trede Pricing With alc tice
of froor prices : minent, MItT haa anproached CAp with draft bill whica
woule give Linistry complete control over export pricing, vith absolute
poser to prohibit goods fron belug exported With proposal for re-
estal lishmsat of oxport easociations momentarily discredited, MlfI ue
uppurently hit upou present proposal as uext bent thing. With regaré
to sssocigvions, roply to Dept's telegram no. 503 of Oct. 15 nov under
preparation Posslbility that fortucoming Diet may sttompt to take
act: on exemptins sxportera' associations from provisions of Trade
ssociation Law is not axcluded.
6 Target  ates Set for Export Reforms. Jan. 1. 195c, hau heeu
set us target dito for returm to private imports, as outlined i
Vieaion's A 267 of Oct. 14, 1949; Dec 1 nas been set as date :or
ramoval of export licensing system Conteuplated that, as of latter
date, export gooes, wich exception of specified list of stratcgie
Kat rials, will e coutrolled only by custons check. mIrl edo s

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's A.276,
Octobar 20, 1949.
。4
will pot be consulted prior to shipment of uarestricied cormodities, ud
vill. oxercise ouly post-surveillance tirough customs rercrts.
7 Korean Trade Tied to Irivate In port Prograr As repur d to
Det by Amembassy Seoul Cap trade negotiators mad, inportart a.
:essicna to Koreans in rocont coaferezce. on assw: pt! in shat ede tou 
interin proppar for private imports was i inent. Kow tnat lutetin pre-
gram has beun diecurded. end Jan I set as target for cet irn to p ivai.
inports. procedure cutlinod in Seoul ccnforence probirly tsprectsicabic
usstlon cf possibl effects on trude therefore arisas, aad Eso creigu
trade officialo wne participated in couference are coispicuoualy pese:
tistic fea ing teut shirt in policy briags them beck to pre-conrererce
iroasse. bether r not situation that unfavorable it aprears imlikely
that croce vith Yorea will pa. reach proportions con': cmpteted 1a recent
sulk:
6. Sterling Aree Overall vayreats Arrangement p be Ameadei
Po sihility of rev sing Overal! Payments Arrangemeat pot considurvd
durie recont sterling area trade conference Now, maver, 1t urpee
in-t provisiop vtll be iuaerte: to effect that only balance above io
mi.lion poucas reguired for peer-term coamitmonte wi ! bo conparled.
jor time beiag suel ccnvuraiou 1s to take place oal on convorsior
daves, siaca pe rrecdrant would restrict sCat's couverslon riat
powever Los forei n trade ofricials stute that thay vill press fr mor
coneral revi lors allowig converslon as cny tire b anco ox sers
sciried figurc.
Bastc  isugreement oper Procurement Policy As renorte re-
vroutly in these alrgrams, Eis Foreiga Trade and Comorce vic ts
rurp tted to policy of maximum procuranent of ra ast orisls es s o
to ard expanding slports Ess Industry Divisicn. hoveve. han tarco
nonitien thet, al h now stockpiles coostantly coming to ltght, pol ley
should be one of -sstrietiag importe to minimum regu rocoate
Yean
while. Mitl has anmounced that ove: it absence of speetfic lavita
Liove t bid. consideration wi li be given to any orfo" te aunply
foodstuffs fron aay area coring ueder trede arrangenouts Meazure 1s
devigned to pay or foodstuffa wito caapensatiag exports to maxin un ex
tent possible so thet approprited funds can be relcxaed for cottcu
purchases in United States In sir1ler vein, MItI hes arnounced that say
barter proposition iuvolving goode frod Latin Aneriee trade arrax are
 latries will bo considered; bone is that trude with tnat ares
a so fer failed to cone to life, wili thereby be set in motior
SHEALD
500
CHBoehringer/EcSeidenstieker, Jr :pf
SCNFLDENPIAL

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
7
TO
: NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: October 21, 1949
Mr. Fearey RAU
SUBJECT: Turnover of Economic Responsibilities for Japan to ECA.
E's proposal is that we discuss with the Army and ECA the desirability of a
take-over by ECA before July l950 of the Army's responsibility for the Japanese
redovery program, including GARIOA, and that agreement to this be sought before
the FY 195l appropriation request is submitted to the Congress in January.
When a treaty of peace does come into effect, which could conceivably be
soon after July l950, the ECA will doubtless be called upon to administer a
894.50
continuing U.S. aid program. It is therefore desirable in any event that the
appropriation act contain language allowing a transfer of funds to ECA in the
eventa treaty during FY 1951.
Since ECA will eventually takeover aid responsibilities in Japan, there
would seem to be decided advantages to its doing so as soon as possible: a) in
easing the transition when the regime of control changes b) in placing aid
program responsibility in a single Washington agency c) in giving SCAP an able
economic adviser, such as Mr. Dodge, who has the confidence of both SCAP and this
Government d) in helping to get GH, SCAP out of detailed control of the Japanese
economy.
The guestion is whether SCAP would look with favor upon a drastic change
in his headguerters and responsibilities before the treaty, with the Army unlikely
to favor the change unless SCAP epproves. The advantages are not so great that
the Department of State would wish to engage in a time-consuming controversy
(not that Mr. Thorp has necesserily suggested that), if it can prevail only with
difficulty or not at all.
If the Army and SCAP should agree, the ECA representative will have a
delicate task in controlling and reorganizing the eristing SCAP economic staffs.
C
In view of SCAP's loyalty to his staff, it is hard to imagine replacement of
Gen. Marquat and the top members of his staff while SCAp is still there. The
introduction of another agency into Washington policy-making will also have its
complications, though the Army would step out of the recovery field as ECA
stepped in. This raises the cuestion whether the State Department should take
over the remaining non-military occupation responsibilities in Washington from
Army if there is an ECA take-over. The possibility of a treaty next spring or
874.50
sunmer makes it doubtful, however, whether thi would be worthwhile.
To avoid a division of responsibility and to induce General MacArthur to
acgept the turn-over to ECA, it must remain clear that he is the supreme U.S.
authority in Japan. The appointment of General MacArthur as ECA representative
with an ECA Deputy, as suggested by E, may be the best way of effecting this.
July 1, 1950, the cormencement of FY 1951, appears a reasonable date for
the turn-over if the necessary agreement can be achieved.
Conclusions
Turnover of economic responsibilities for Japan from Army to ECA would have
definite

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
definite advantages, but not so great as to justify a struggle by the State
Department against Army and SCAP objection.
Rather than send letters to ECA and Army, as recommended by E, it is
suggested that Mr. Butterworth should discuss the matter with Mr. Voorhees
and obtain his reaction. If generally favorable, ECA and then SCAP can then be
brought into the discussions.
Attention should in any case be given to the use of sufficiently flerible
language in the appropriation act to allow transfer of funds to ECA during
FY1951.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
REST: ICTED
TO
: FE - Mr. Allison
DATE: October 24, 1949. 
SUBJECT: Tokyo's 679 of September 29, 1949.
A sumrary of Japan's economic problems was prepared by
Lr. E. R. Lingeman, Minister (Commercial) United Kingdom Liaison
Miscion in  for Mir. Malcolm MacDonald, Commissioner General
for the United Kingdom in Southeast Asia. Lingeman observes that
Japan is "hag-ridden" by tihe problen o feeding an increased popu-
lation. The imprcved economic conditions ince 1946 and the steady
rise in industrial prodt ction are due to
"the four-fold increase of U.S. procurement as
tetween 1947 and 1048 . . . . and deriving, of
cource, fren increaced Cor gressienal appropri-
ations."
In comnentin on the Dee e Mission, Lingeman stated that the
results of the Mission heve ": een renarkably rapid with a reduction
in note isrue, the flattening of the price spiral, ard the inaugura-
tior of e policy of "inar cial retrenc ment and strict control of
credit, interued to provoke tie rationalization of industry" as well
as the establishmert of an of icinl exchane rate of yen 360 to 1.
ir. Linrenan comnents tiat the successes now visible may te attributed
to "the shrewaness ano determinatior of Mr. Dod e."
There is a camain on foot, tacked b. the Jupanese Economic
Stabilization board to reverse the stabilizatior profram. Mr. Lingeman,
however, does not trink tiat Jeyan will be able to ie in to live off
its own resources as earl. as lof3 without considerable assistance from
the United States.
FILED
4 1952
C0/R
HW
C~+.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
DETACH
THIS FORM
RECORD COPY
894.50/10-2749
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCHTELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
MAR 2: 1950
FILED
C
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.87)
INCOMÍNG AIRGRAM
327
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AJRGRAN
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
Dato of
CONFUDENTIAL
ma'ling:
Cctober 29, 1949
Roc d: Nov. 3, 1949 3:53 pm
1
M
ROR DEPARTMT UE INLN
ACTION
FE
Secrsary of State
INFC
DOR
Washingion
804.50/1.2849
EUR
A.282 October 27. 1949
E
DCL
(Thio sirgr  plemente this Mmission'e
ITP
A-276, Cctcbe. 0. 194, and carlier
CFD
sirgrams in ts eydeo Reouest distri-
CSI
tation bo a a to o pertrent for ree
soas stater  2t or ary 28. 1949.)
1 Chine srion Oft s to ss. Reference made to item
(2) A 249 Sept 2) mtst hat Chinm mnsion here has offered stock
of restituted epdum ans  re  Co., well-known American phar
macsutical fm h y  On Cet 22, Mr. Ely M.
BRANDES, Cce    d  HO, SOAP. uformd Lconorde
Counsslor hat uhtee so, y net optimistie over possible
sale to Avertemm fime. ird   pa ot ies to conomie and Scientifie
Section (Es s price  ) po   véhh 10 per cont anhydrous mor-
phine cons r soo p  e of poo per cont anhydrous mor
phine content Beandes n c or
 s on tentative casis,
si provi sior obase,    s m bo made to Chinese Hiasion
by a ber shock paebte a ere   recal branches of Amerfcan
bandk Aa undiczted in deee ,  Sept 7, 1949, entitled wNar
coties in dapan estituted  ris s her been insisting that all pro
ceede from sate eutate  e  bo used for partial settle
pent of money oued  h o  bo Japan for rcess exporte to
China chioese Kissien be  untire sales proceeds, or sub-
stantial portion tercor,  ssion. allegedly for use ao
operatins uxpenmes Recains   sen hether ss is in nesition to find
puyur for nareoties aud whooe   ma lin to comprovi on matter of
2
euse of pales voreoda
7
20
Official Concern
Reference made
to iten (3),  276 Cet, 2o,   that Japanese proposs treating SovEx
roi rr x ar pravate coneum in co meocen wdth ats desire purehose property
in Torye dor or om yor  r for use b membere of thar film cor
poration
ctonGHAP,d Foreign
CONPDUCE

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.77)
Tol.yo 8  282,
to114
2-
 ,cnclentificction),OVEPORTPI
 r cos ler nys ovt, catnot logaliy be treated a pri-
peis aep condivionsroposed by ofricial
 rorein lnve:tment Board now
st1.iaicn  cpaciy  Dip
rfortuinat iston that sov
:at.
rropertyunder
acuuisition
11
111
is
.it
ffect that
i.n are not being
ICK
eree ivislons tthe ock
 bern repeatouly invest tor oy foroign
rnceeclar remainder rou ax orcableith rospect
 r ipat t d ve led to donostie aconcn, di s uo ion at meeting
ttotwhoX lnrs aid ararked
pt ic a br povont cato retatl out at slowed Jown by difficul
 r lo couos and finanef masJariou r
by sorin  beinnimegrphed by Ess
ibLanir tosalonrespatch to
1.
rrstaff mee
  T. vr ecto for Foretun Tride sta ed that official
t uj ' age co rol r had ca  uen too complicated
cou foofFstieor xo teerott said ho
 sSr usiLfied rocur by Oct.
waby
lek u  ion pan s dherence to mect ree pent. Pickelle
 brouu stion Ja adnerencu ontrnationl
et Aer lie :st uh ithou questien has been approvod in
principe  and eural Hedquarters persoe. concerned, atter
ba recond r   ht of pecent aport that Phail:ad in l9s0 assertodly
ill bo in : n ofier apan i, (xo, Ooo tong of rice and that Occupied
Japan, unt er  aous  raie arrangements, inc uding that with Thailand, my
be ia potion itrin next fan year to ucqiiru fcodututfe pore advantag
ously than thi u. hat A emont in any event,  addud, it seemed
questionabie lhe:: an sroid tert  buy 1, z), x tons of wheat
CONPIDNTIAL

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.78)
4.
Tokyc's A-282,
UOctober 27, 1149.
during next four vears under t reenee iscussion inconclusive
with other lss offjciats expre in opiniuns o etfect tihat escape clause
based en lack or fore an exm e  i ht be us d by Japan should it be
found unwdee to buy acouct or o niea ed
6 Netherlanes Prase   iugo ew of trede botween Japan
and etherlands and Indonema   n To on Cst  Chier bisineso
to be drawine uo comiity plan b d pon a se procurement from
Netherland an Indor esia  st  ar, et erlend cannet comit
self to adverss trede m anee r o of nor availabi lioy of cn funds
to cover defrsit otrl m rop sereat ve have indicated avatlabili-
ties totalling ap poxt  el   icn vnt il such time as sCa funde
becomr availabir pu chaces f  an o at mo be limired to that figure,
wich. dopendi upo apanere m may be pedue d as talks progress.
begarig payets aeroe   prepo thet current arrangement
remain a sore but t  tern coooant" be sastituted, where
undr y opceu   d  ure automotically be
comaailab.nc
rea, ppeare possible
that eleb e vr anese denends near
or Comp
under mcideration 
plfe as b trie   s eabcoekvilcox for ac
quierm f r rare   opaoete coneepns, ant pas already
ap  eppt   on r   t ese sto Conversation
wn  t
ep st me    or h etions, have
  mer n  cas o g handled
Sxci-
fre i bed   es re  t cofor to A
erir for 0 ron pesene  pr coepatch no 8 of Jemuy 24
194y nd tt pi   ns o5 mwoh non-conformance may be con-
ider bte Consiaer t particc ray vasoptemace shte sil comnaey, always
 rt laoy sable vo chare er coore ertal
d first. ex-
eeota.r aoo tr ut foret n i vosomoat critorin not chau.get prtor to deci-
ston co case
hftockpte bomam  Lauer Foreign rade wis
Fer o oboed to  P r b r mmese purchases vre exesively
P  Ser beer    el l. lns
ere o  poebant to ep wove eoos  boorts om dapen n vdow
f  pe lane e eoe  snce cone ssion or Fanan
 asee   vo nt of as Fo iu rade and

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.83)
To1oi3 A-282,
vctober 27, 1945.
n4
Commerce Division thst Ja, an must buy before she can soll. Ministry of
interna ional Prade ana Indistry, houever, continues to be reluctant to
sanctlon additio a o clready heavy stockpiles, while Japanese Govern-
ment s conoric ta ilisation Loird holde that only way to solve pro-
stes of storkpllcr ts (tacuah starply irereesed capital iuvestments.
soare is rel et nt o ut thettor or not latter program would involve
cevi. ot Fod Ine espatct. now nr reparation  Ll diseuss
riswe e noane, oa less atrect ty thoee of ocial Denocratic Party, on
onr wroler and or cenl colicdes in genecel
JBALD

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.97)
4
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
25
United States Political Adviser
REC 'D
for Japan
NOV 26
Tokyo, November 4, 1949.
ACTION
REXXX
No. 767
GUD
FE (2) ENCLS
INFO
CONFIDENTIAL
DCR
OLI ENC
ITP ENG
OFD ENC
Subject:
Views of Social Democratic Party and Econo-
mic Stabilization Board with Regard to
E
Economic Stabilization.
8cm
894.
The Honorable
894.50/41-249
Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report on the views of the
Economic Stabilization Board and the Social Demo-
cratic Party with regard to the economic stabiliza-
tion program and the so-called "Dodge Line" for
fiscal retrenchment. In so far as possible the
material below is based on studies and commentaries
elucidating those views; the Department will note.
however, that, in view of the fact that the Social
Democratic Party's program is vague in the extreme,
much reliance has been placed on interpretation and,
to some extent, speculation.
In brief, the announced position of economists
in the Economic Stabilization Board (ESB) and the
Social Democratic Party is that the Yoshida Govern-
ment has gone beyond the Dodge program in proposing
debt retirement, and that, within the framework of a
balanced budget, steps should be taken for increased
public works, unemployment relief, and the provision
of eguipment funds to basic industries. Officially,
therefore, the two groups advocate changes in the imple-
mentation of the program rather than a revision of the
progrem itself. For reasons which will be indicated
later, however, it is not unlikely thet they would
welcome a revision of the "Dodge Line" itselr, but
avoid a direct atatement of that aim for obvious pol1-
tical reasons.
Views
JAN 25 1950
CONFIDENTIAL
HH
FILED
ACTION COPY
OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 76i,
November 4, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Views of the Economic Stabilization Board
For a competent summary of the ESB's position
as contrasted with that of the Winistry of Finance,
which presently has the upper hand, there is enclosed
11
a memorandum prepared by Mr. Leonard FELSENTHAL, eco-
nomist in the Division of Research for the Far East,
Office of Intelligence Research, who recently completed
a period of temporary duty in Seoul and Tokyo.. As
appraised by Mr. Felsenthal, stabilizetion "Plan A,"
which has the support of the Finance Ministry and of
the Prime Linister, "is based primarily on the elimin-
ation of inflationary factors and the discouraging of
expansion of investment by the government". "Plan B",
which is supported by the ESB, "is based on a gradual
expansion of investment as a prerequisite of final
stabilization".
The differences between the two prcgrams, it will
be seen, revolve around the following points: both
propose industrial rationelization, but Plan B advo-
cates spreading the costs over & long period; Plan A
would freeze wages, while Plen B, sanctioning limited
price rises if worid prices rise similarly, would pre-
sumably elso εllow limited wage rises to prevent a
fall in reel wcges; Plan A would discourage capital
accumulation by the Government and limit public works
severdy, while Plan B would encourage Government
investment and advocates public works to a minimum
total of 100 billion yen for Japanese fiscal year 1950;
Plan A tightens Government and private credit, while
Plan B edvocates government loans and long-term agencies
for extending credit to medium und small enterprises.
Although it is not explicitly so stated in Mr. Felsen-
thal's summary, Plan B also contemplates wider direct
investment of U. S. Aid Counterpart Funds than hes so
far been the case, and would not oppose in principal
credit expansion through sme agency similar to the
now inactive Reconstruction Finance Bank.
A somewhat more deteiled statement of the Econo-
mic Stabilization Poard's position is provided in a study
2/
dated August 1, 1949, and entitled "Analysis of Eccno-
my in Transition", five copies of which are enclosed.
In brief, the study analyzes the deflationary effect
of the l949 budget, and notes possible countermeasures
which can be taken within the framework of the balanced
budget.
The heart of the deflationary problem is seen in
the balanced budget, which on the one hand produces a
flow of money into the Bank of Japen and e consequent
shrinkage
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
November 4, 1949.
CÓNFIDENTIAL
-3-
shrinkage in industrial funds, and on the other
reduces purchasing power by increasing the tax bur-
den and forces prices up by reducing subsidies. The
trend is aggravated by the reluctance of banks to
extend long-term euuipment loans, or to provide credit
to small and medium enterprises, and by the suspen-
sion of Reconstruction Finance Bank loans, which have
hitherto been the mainstay of such essential indus-
tries as coal mining. U.S. Aid Counterpart Funds,
moreover, assertedly have not been made available to
fill the gap between supply and emand for equipment
funds.
The slump in Japen's expcrts, the study oon-
tinues, is of course largely the resuit of factors
beyond Jepanese control, but may in part be explained
by internal pressures. Thus, export financing
becomes difficult us tne credit situatlon tightens;
production declines as stockpiles accumulate (and the
eccumulstion of stockpiles in turn is in part due to
the lessening of effective demend and the shortage
of equipment funds), and production costs consequently
rise; and, finally, exrort industries, except in the
cases of a few large and favored companies, are
unable to obtain funds with which to carry out ration-
alization programs.
As a result, stockpiles accumulate, payments lag,
real wages fall, medium and small enterprises face
increasing financial difficulties, nd, for want of
long-term credit, dismissal of employees becomes the
only possible way of adjusting the situation. Thus
the economy stagnates, and, the study concludes,
"it is feared that the adjustment of e conomy for the
short-term profitability /i.e., abrupt fiscel retrench-
ment/ may result in the vicious circle cf economic
shrinkege bringing bout further economic shrinking.
From the long-range viewpoint of econcnic self-support.
Japan:s economy sheuld not be of such small scale as
to consune not aore than three million tons of coal
or & hundred and fifty thousand tcns of steel per
month"
After this detailed analysis of deflationary trends
and potentialities, the study concludes vith the rela-
tively mild sugfestions thet Counterpart Funds become
available, and that government investment be increased
"within the framework of the balanced budget". "In
short", it is noted, "an expansion of investment in
the basic industries at present will result in an even-
tual saving of aid to Japan".
No attempt is made here to indicate more than the
barest essentials of the Economic Stabilization Board's
thesis. As a well-organized statement of a dissident,
if not hostile, view of present economic policies, the
study is considered worthy of more than perfunctory
attention.
Other
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
TOkyo's Despatcn NO. /o1,
Ncvember 4,1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Other Statements
With the announcement of Mr. Joseph DoDGE's
expected return to Tokyo, the Japanese press and
periodicals devoted an increasing amount of space to
appraigal of the so-called "Dodge Line", and to pre-
dictions and suggestions regarding its future appli-
cation. of particuler interest wes a series of
erticles by leading economists published in the
Nihon Keizai Shimbun under the title "What we Hope
for from Mr Dodge" Among the contributors were a
number of economists whose views in general coincide
with those outlined abcve. who are more or less
closely identified vi th the Social Democratic Party,
and who have carried considerable weight with the
Economic Stabilization Board. Translations of three
of the more significant articles are enclosed; a brief
statement of the views conteined therein follows.
Mr. WaDA Hiroo, former direcvor of the Economic
Stabilization Boerd and at present director of the
31
Policy Investigation Bureau of the Sccial Democratic
Party, expresses doubts as to whether implementation
of the program by the present Government conforms to
Mr. Dodge's intentions, and points to the "super-
balanced" budget as evidence that those intentions
have been perverted. To counteract the decline in
production and the accumulation of stockpiles, he
recommends maximum use of the Counterpart Fund for pub-
lic works, unemployment countermeasures, and assist-
ance to local finance, as well as curtailment of the
present program of redeeming Jovernment and Recon-
struction Finance Bank bonds, and, of course, abandon
ment of the "super-belanced budget" To increase
effective demand, he proposes lightening of the
income tax burden and reising of the wage base for
public servants. Assailing the present.rogram as
"financial and big-business stabiiity". e calls for
a more even distribution of the secrifices.
Mr. INABA Hidezo. fcrmer Econcnic Stabilization
Board economist who resigned upon the unnouncement that
4/
the Economic Rehabilitation Planning Committee's
"Five Year Plan" (this Mission's despatch no. o69 of
September 26, 1949) would not be published, notes the
same general evidences of economic stagnation as did
the ESB in the study summarized above. Additionally,
he points out certain indications that actual unem-
ployment has increased much more sharply tnan would be
indicated by relief statistics. While believing the
economic stabilization program to be necessary and
unavoidable, Mr, Inaba suggf ts the following modifi-
cations in its operation: increased public investment,
and increased direct investment from the Counterpart
Fund, together with loan guarantees as required;
minimum
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.95)
   . ,
November 4, 1949..
CÓNFIDENTIAL
5-
minimum retirement of debentures. with an expanded
public works prog:, and adjustment in the tining.
of Government puyments; international cooperεtion
towerd the ex:unsicn of foreign trede end the improve-
ment of trade terms; the adcptlon of a social secur-
ity program; and, finally. the consideration by
Ir. Dodge of problems not strictly fiscal and finan-
cial.
Kr. TSURU Shigeto, Professor in the Tokyo Univer-
sity of Conmerce, whc has been cleselr ussocisted with
the Eccnomic Stabilizacicn EnarJ, enerelly ugrees
51
that the Jepanese econony is stagans und that
stabilization at such a low level e:nnot really be
considered stsbilization in the tss sense of the tern.
In r. Tsuru's opinion, Lowever, more important than
the technical problem of raising the production level
is the problem of miking the Japeneee Government res-
ponsible for economic recovery .r. Isuru would there-
fore ask from Lr. Dodge a cleer elineation cf the aid
to be expected from America, nd, with in that frame
of reference, would make the  neae Government
entirely responsible for stutilizrtion.
Significanco
To ell intents und purr osas, t cconomlsts
mentioned above, and the Econe ic Stabilization Iotrd
in its study of the economy in t nsition, do nct
propose revision of the "Dod e  ne" Crficiuls of
the Economic Stebilization Potrd stet: that the pro-
gram they propose. ine luding ex nie: ublic works
and sid to medium end stall busiaesses, can be
accomplished within the framewerk ur e talanced
budget, and in ecsence simply lmi ics sre effective
use or american aid, plus somewhot mi or credit poli-
cies
There are indications. however t.t the Econc-
mic Stabilization Board and the Soeial Democratic
Party would faver relaxation f the "odge Line"
itself. The enclose! re ort on the eeonomy in trensi-
tion notes at one point that there cin be seen "a
conflict between the balunced bud et un: the decrease
of purchasing power com ensurate with the deflationary
trend, which statement in effect lays all the blame
for the deflation on the budget itselr, rather than
only on the Government's implementetion trogram. The
Department's attention is also called to the concluding
paragraphs of the study, which, while cdmitting the
need for stabilization, reco mend that "overall measures
covering not only economic but also social aspects of
the problem be put into prectice". Attention is also
invited to the following statement in ir. Felsenthel's
Memcrandum
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
November 4, 1949.
. CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
memorandum: "The questions raised by the 'plenners'
are whether Janan will be able to achieve this stabi-
lization at the level indicated above without the
stimulant of rising prices, and within the mechanism
of private enterprise and free competition".
Althougi completely up-to-date statistics are
not available, there is some evidence that real wages
have declined slightly in recent months. The Social
Democratic Party must in the final unalysis support
wage increases, and whether or not declining wages
sre a necessary result of the Dodge program, it is
very unlikely that wages can rise unless the infla-
tionary spiral is resumed. Therefore, while it is
no doubt true, as Ir. Felsenthal points out in the
enclosed study, that there is general agreement on
the principle of stebilization, thet ugreement pro-
bably does not extend to absolute acceptance of the
"Dodge Line". It is possible that the economists noted
above. as well as the Social Democratic Purty itself.
have concentrated their attack on the Government's
enforcement of the Dodge program in the knowledge that
it would be politically inexpedient to attack the pro-
gram itself and perhaps in the telief thet some
relaxation must inevitably come if present wage
trends continue. In any event, it is difficult to
believe that the Party. in view of the colicies to
which it is committed can be a devotee f the Dodge
plan, and, in view of its position as the leading
non-Conmunist opposition to the present Government.
and as the most important single element resisting
the polarization of Japanese politics, it is believed
that the Party's views on economic stahilization
should be recommended to the Department for close and
continued observation
The Depertment is invited to ive rticular
attention to Lir Tsuru': enclosed articie which
recommends that. within a very clearly defined frame-
work of American aid. the Japtnese Govornment be
given complete resronsibility for econusic recovery.
Should that recommendation be sdopted, it would
obviate the present unfortunete situation whereunder
the Cabinet avoids responsibility for unpopular poli-
cies. however much it may opprove of them. It is not
improbable thet the Government would be unwilling or
unable to face the political opposition that would
result from continued enforcement of the present line
if its sole responsibility were made clear.
Respectfully yours,
W J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosures:

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Despetch No. 767.
November 4, 1949.
CONFIDENTLL
-7-
Enclosures.
1. . Felsenthal's memeron
dum "Divergent Views en
Implementetion of Ecenc
mic stabilization Progrem".
2。
Five copies of ESB e
Conmell?
etudy. inalysis of Euc-
y brensition",1
1947
3
Trenslation of erticle fr
Nihon heize! Shimbun
October 25, 1949.
4
Trenslction of article from
Wihon Keizei Shimbun
OctcFer 21, 1949
5
Prenalation of rticle from
Nihcn Eei pi 3himbun..
Ce toter
Parchment Nat to Danurtment
500
EGSeidensticker Jr.: keb
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatcl No.
767 duted Novem. er 4, 1949 from
che Urlted States Feiltlcal
viser for epan. Tokyo, en the
CONFIDENTIAL
subje "Viewe r Saliel Democra-
 ty und Economic Stcbllize-
sin ri with Rogard to Econo-
llizetion
Subject.
Ejencni
Fro
bilizaticn ri
1948 hs u1d
implementint
generei i uh
there tre difforen
methods of rv.
nomic llunning
Board rs 
"investier
of the ste!!
1)
Repor
Commit
litation
tion Buard
2)
Eccncste
Institute
Tokyo
3)
y
10n
Resotrer
4)
sgeto 
Stubility nd
5)
Induatri
namist
6)
Countern rt
Saptoner 
rives
For pur
of atabillein the
 t  
'A And
eaaumption ti
tor nnted
by 1953 the
gonerel wauutton
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. I
to Tokyo's Daspatch o. 767.
November 4, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
.2-
1)
Stabilization of the international political
situstica. with t reduel "easing" of the
East-lest tancions end an increcse of trado
between Japan and the Southern ereas.
2)
after e period of continued currancy and
foreign trade controls, free exchenge of
currencies will ie reatored r multi.
letercl clearing cpreenents vill euse
present exchange restrictions
3)
Pereten trede alr be freed frot restete.
ticna and crre'aer rly expenaed
4)
Trade terms und conditions will be con-
siderehly iarreved snd foreign lnvestments
will be stepred ir expediting moderni.
zation of industries
5)
Domestic industrien will be well ratien-
eliced. rrednetivity of laber reised and
Jupanese industry ill be competitive on
the internstionel ~arket vithout the are
of subeidies
A set of nore specific economic sssumptiens used
in the argument includes the following pcinte:
1)
Populatton will rer e slmost es millior in
1953.
2)
Het terms .f trede for Jepen will improve br
13 per cent betveen 1948 end 1953 in favor
of Jupen.
3)
Privete cepitul formation will be as igh
as 15 to 17 er cant of netionel income
eech yeer sfter 1949.
On the basis cf thece uasumptions, the tar ets for
e "stable economy" by 1953 heve been set vs follows b
the Economic Stebilizetion Hccrd.
FY 1949
Y 1953
Percentage
National Income (mil-
lions of 1930-34 en) 11 230
14 922
32.9
Industrial Troduction
(1949 = 100)
ICO
180 9
80.9
Coal (million tons)
42
50
19.1
Finished steel (thou-
sand. tons)
1.920
3.050
58.9
Cotton yarns (million
pounds)
341.3
760
122.7
Agrioulturel
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure No. 
to Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 767,
November 4, 1949.
CONFIDENTLAL
3-
 1949
FY 1953
Percentage
Agricultural pro-
duct1on (1949=100)
100
120.5
20.5
Exports (millions of
1949 do1lers)
599
511
152 3
Productivity of laber in
manufactur1ng (1949-100)100
169.0
69.0
It should be notea thet industrisl prodaotier
which was 61.1 rer cent of the 1936 1eve? in p1?
1949 end has levelled fe since then will lave  be
raised by 80 per cent within four years, lor-el" en
the besis of an inereuse f lsbor productivity o
per cent in four years) srat poriculturel proa oti
is to be ineremsed by z0 ner cent, and exnerts
re +
be almost trinled by 1953.
The questions reisei by the "plannere" ure
whether Japen will te ble to achieve tris statrlrp-
tion at the level indic ted tove without the timu-
lanu of rising prices  a vithin the cectorim c
private enterprise and free eompetition
 h
tergets set in the flan too high, partioularlp thop
considered in the light of un assumed inereace if the
standerd of living by 1953 to anprax metely co er
cent of the 1930-34 leve1
eiternetive prorecels
The two plans whie heve :een evelved y -
nese economists to impler ent the ste bili cin roor
are given below in ceneral form enly. Both pir
based on the same sssurptions
hile P an A ar based
primarily on the eliminetion of infletionsry tor.
and the discouregine of expension of investment ly
the government. Flan D is based on a srsdual exyn-
sion of investment  s a rereguisite of in:i stebi-
lization.
Plen a. eccording to the experts of the Seenort
Stebilization Board
enviesren the followino m yor
policies.
a)
Rationalizetior af induetry to  port
basis
b)
Emphesis on the devoloument cf tnaurtries
which produce fer ex, ort.
c)
No increase in  levels
ai
Limi ted pubiie vers proprar
e;
Discouresement f curital acc umuletion
government.
c) vigasening
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.84)
Enclosure No: 1
to Tokyo's Despater c. 77.
November 4, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
f) Pightening ef evornment en
credit rolicisz.
Plan L, considerei se le the elternusive to
a) Rationaliratien ar ind atry, wicn coats
spreed over lens pericd, and empaasizins
the ratienaltaatrn in export induasrier
b)
Prevention of deflaslorary trends:
Reti. ment of ullie debt at a maxierem
a r  min n  195c. S
rise in prices (atout 5 per cent: aesept-
able, dependin, a ca internetional ppice
level, internal crellt policies ete (in
case price  leciine ture 
be no price imeresse in Japan). Eusing
of pr vate arI  everamentei credit poil-
cies.
c)
Invecten ativ  ty overen so 
incr csed, eppop erouch covernment
grants (surasalee) or throug sovement
louns
Po iayatment uctivity o to
compnse  e ece fa c r
part Fanda araaie
t.S econond
td us s.   .
3)
Incrced pablle w ps progre, 
(c), L. prder tt revile emplo?
the inereesirp aar or unenpo
miniakm of Y fcf afmrion for puelie
works in o lyso to constderet to 
inciepenrctle.
tute    
prises.
f)
Ütilleatlen f e nart   
lon-term iavement to rejlase end
modernice egulpmeae, especlally in epr
industries,  recover rdisiny st-
ment" in yutlic works which took place
dur ing and ester she war.
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatoh No.
767 dsted Novemier 4, 1949 from
the Upted States Political
A? iser for Jaran, Tokyo, on the
EL.SSID
ubject "Vie.s of secisi Demccra-
tic urty and Eccnomic tabilize-
tier Bourd with Recari te Econo-
mic talilization"
Trenslution from Hhen Heizai Shintun
October 22, 1949
WHaT WE HOPE YOR FRO LR. DODGE
 Da iroo.
Chairnan of sre Poliey Investigeticn Council
of ths Jecialist Party
what has teer the result of the enferoenert by
the Yoshide Cubinet ef she Dod e Prceraa us conceived
by ar. Dod e in imple entutien of the 9 principles
for ecenomic stsbijintsiont Hes it teen vhet
mr. Dod e expecteds w vunt him to stuly she taired
results calily cna bcientificclly. Firat, si points
aired at by r. Dedce wore to belanee the t sal bad-
set, to pravent curre ep inflatien, uni to etalilize
prices, and then to iney e roduetion  t ro-
mote exports. However, a elcse atuay of te a roye
budget reysals that at te p supep-buion   at  l.
al ough the cur  ee to  r i
off, stcks e u alstag l ex s s
we ure uetuelly run ing te lone into serltsl
The l40 billien yon counteppurt funa, estd
to prevent such a avelo ment, has teen relser  to
elepsed. Therefore in prier t brine the ef
is iaperetive to rutdjust the super-talanca gs
by limitine to the miniaue the redemptie ef e sl ael
bonds and Recens eruetie. Jinance Bank debensur a usi
by inereasing exponaitures for publie vorke, uaeu-
ployment relief, and sil te local finanes, anl s sh-
same time, to reduce lpcome suxes and to abimulase
effective demand by raising the we Luse.
Phe couner
purt fund must alse te  at to suistole and timely mae.
Second ly, General macart ur, in recsmmanling bne
9 principles for ecenecic stt ilization, coressed the
necessity of eauulizing the lurden of sucrifice or
the whole nation, in er an that the Lapeet en the inid-
vidual might be minimined. Lut what hts moemlsed from
the enforcement of the s tebilinatlen pre rer by the
Toshida Cabineta  the una mend, e a subi
zation of tig enterpr ses u rough rati cllzesi
and a strengthening or the o itien of  nciel
capital; und, on the osher hend, we nose a shurtage
of funis und a progres ive elimination of macller
enterprises, delayed yeyment nd reducticn or wuges,
etenation
CLASSIPIED

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3
to Tokyo!s Despetch o. 767,
November 4,1949.
2-
stagnation or decline of reel weges, dismissel of
employees, the incr&se of cren unemployment, the
existence of an army of latent unemployed, and the
impoverishment of farmers.
In other words, econemic stabilizatiorlus
enforced by the Yoshida Cebinet is statili: tier for
capitel and not stabilizution for the masses. The
burden resulting therefro? is one-sided We urge
that this ineguclity be rectified, end that poliey
be shifted to one which confirms the principle that
economic stabilizetion is nething other than svsbilized
living for the messes. The prevention of unemployment
and of major fluctuations in the level of curreney
holdings is the direet responsibility of the govern-
ment. Loreover, the importance of smaller enterpri es
and agriculture. in Jap n:s economy should artich-
larly be borne n mind.
Thirdly, the promotien of foreign trede, unter the
single exchan, e rate of 3.c yen to the dollar, is of
course one of the muin props for the stabilization and
self-sufficiency of Jupan s economy under the Dodge
program. In oruer to Ireak in the deailoc. Tupan is
now fecing, further retienclizction may te necessury,
but the situation will nos asily be taken cure ur
by that tlone.
I hope that ir. Dou e, to sttein the souls of
his program, will seliver  's foreign trade from
the present "blina trude" , bake effective mesaures
to change it in the lireuaien o independenee d
autonomy. Otherwise, the iaallocs in export trede
may force devaluaticn o the yen.
Lastly, I wish to point out that there exiets.
for the stabilization and reconstruction of Jaycn's
economy, the qualitative problem of the relutive struc-
ture of capitel goods, is adiition to the quentita-
tive problem of the rapi! ccumulation of cupital.
This essential problem is ofsen n:glected or ignored
under the guise of bud et ry eguilibrium end eeenomic
autonomy, causing a devission from the preper path
for Japen's economy, and even tending to obstruct the
development of econonic demccracy. For these reasons,
we want Lr. Dedge to rec mend all-round messures
toward self-sufficienc, autonomy, and conomic circu-
lation, in order te meni ecsnomic stabilizttion con-
tribute to the livelihood cal velfare cf she weases,
rather than to the stubil ization of capitel. It muy
be said thet this will give  finisning touch te the
Dodge Program.
OLSSLIED

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.90)
Enclosure No 4 to Despatch No.
767 dated Novemter 4, 1949 from
the United States Political
Adviser for Japan Tokyo. on the
subject "Views of Social Denocra-
tic Party and Economic- Stabiliza-
tion Board with Regard to Econo
mic Stabilization"
franslatier from Nihon Keizai Shimbun
Cctober 21. 1949
MAT E HOPE FOR FROM LR. DODGE
上INABA Hidezo
Dieetor thNational Economic Research
sceiation (Kokumin Keizai Kenkyu Kyokai)
  trend in Japen s eonomy seems to show
r.yeets
The brint side is seen in
"is a vlf-reliant activities of enterprises
tmpr. sat in yuality of comrodities in the
f  end in efforts toward resdeneliza-
 other hand, it is unleniable that
i deneles are how aenerally yresent
 cri stacpation and decline in ro
Jusin und he t pearance of internel
ira -riul instabiiity,
wlsification of the rsssure for
he ccvumuletion of stocks of
 tret cods tnd the inee ase 
 puyable unl receivable cencu-
ie lr ek of effective deand
vete press of e en
treat abcut decisivaly 
deu in the externel situm tian.
I point out these tenaerptes le thet
s ift in  resent econcnis policie: is
 octel shese downuerd trends will sontinue
elor te and uny conditions which vey reverse
thren he "automatie" operation of the econe-
 ffi cult so findAnother reusen is
since  Japanese economy has a yesu: ier etrue-
here ur uta indications of crisis do nct
a  remain latent and dorment maled-
sate s  a be looted for under the aurfees
l visible unem loymont remains crcund
but tecuralng to the ltbor foree survey of
Stit ssistics Bureau, durine the yesr ending
a employed asricultural poraletion
224
Laspcused Ly - soo ooc while, during the seme perica.
che euployea palation in menufacturing construc-
 1 ine jecreased by 700.000 (12 per cent)
400,000

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.92)
E Iosure No. 4
to Tokyo s Despatch No. 767.
November 4 1949.
D
400 000 (30 per cent) and 150.000 (25 per cent)
respecsively. Viewed from other angles. innumerable
other indicetions of latent meladjustment can be
noted
I edmit it to be inevitable for us to pass through
the course marked by Mr. Dodge if Japan s economy is
to be stebilized and independent. However to face
the situsticr created at present end in the future,
y manges in internal end external conditions it
is believed imperative that the following sugcestions
te msidered at trat the stabilizatien ana ree n-
straetion of the ceuntry s economy may be mere
asfer ively  pied out these suggestions pontais my
wimmsus eaee totions without ineluding too much
she ught f psforming the present situetion and I
earrestly bope teat they te carried out
mere pesitive messures towerd raising lore-
sers funds the increase of financiel
in sstrents. the direet investment of
ceanterpart funds and depending upen
src wstcnces eppllcation guaranctes
of prtvate loans
tmpm pedemption of sovernment debte
vresrly under the l950 buage:
 sedy ci appropriete use co pounter-
par nd eapension ef putll: works
laye and eommunications instel-
Latiurs more energesie consideretion
to e siven to seas nsl adjustmenrs ar
rul etary revenues end expendirures
mere sffeetive foreden peliey tewerd the
imymovemert ef trede condittrna end the
promesfon of exports if the present
exchenge rate is te be maintained
the edoption of a social security sys-
tem to uring unemployment into the open
and financiel assistance to the unem-
ployed as the reverse side of industrial
reticnalization
lastly what we expect of Mr. Dodge is his
veluable advice concerning the generel diree-
ticn of the Japanese economy from cther
than financial end monetery points of view
L

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 5 to Despatoh No.
767 dated Novamber 4, 1949 from
the United States Political
Adviser for Japen Tokyo, on the
UNCLASSIFIED
subject "Views of Sociel Democra-
tic Party and Economic Stabiliza-
tion Board with Regard to Econo-
mic Stabilization"
Tr. lution from Nihon Keizai Shimbun
Cotober 28 1949
WEAD ME MHOTE FOR FROE MR. DODGE
By TSURU Shigeto
Erefesser an tne Tekye University of Commerce
Lorasbesrt eaversity
ir inte simed et br ir Dedge ducing his
tapan
may le tsted es two
Cr was
asonony and the othar was to
conscions
the ecoremir atturtion
Mis remarks struex us starply
am surrrieed cs note that aoat
stete ment
mars rave s deterai
may be ld c a
nesion and its sccnomy
The true solution to Japan s
pr bles ean tever be arrived at unless the Japanese
v 
In a sense ir Dodge s second visit
pevesls a eortrcdtation
We cre most gratefui to we
act un eutaoriey an r Dodse to Capan for the
sesond sime in sne year and so have his advice
peguvdino the delloute situstion whieh Japan s econemy
is mow facing ate may be snterpreted however as
evidence of she tnability of the Japanese severnment
to solve problema by iteelf
I em afreid that it mey
te come usual pruetice for the Japanese sovernment to
rely inon it reign experts to selve ita musses of
difficuls preblems
From my
UNCL.SSIFIED

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 767,
November 4 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
2-
From my cwn professional point of view, I have
many thcughts on the reconstruction of Japan"s econo-
my, which I have expressed on several occasions
But to 1ndicate my concrete views under the heading
of "What We Hope for f m Ir Dodge" would I think,
run counter to the principle of "solition through
our own efforts" devised by Mr. Dodge If I am to
sey anything on this cccasion it is only to request
Mr. Dodge to consider the case of Japan in the light
of the statement made by Mr Eugene BLacK President
of the International Reccnstruction Eank with regard
tc western Eurepean nat funs on the occasion of the
Bark s ennual meeting lsat September. in a word
the imit of lmerican sid to Japen should be defined
as exsetly as yessible as to both its duration and
its velume within that Limit the Japanese should
te made reaycnsible fer their own problems of stabi-
licatten ena rescnstruction
f we ere not resolved to settle our ewn yeo
t ers by our cwn efforts I think thas Fapoe
.romy tannet be saved und thet moreever
aal sin cf demceratie pr etice toward natienal
rae ender vi be nsttcihe he
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
1 hug. 1949
Analysis of Economy in Transition
894.50

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.93)
Researeh Section
2
Eccnomic Stabilization Poard

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
1. Preface
2. Analysis of Deflationary Factors.
a.
Factors in the Field of Public Finance, Money and
Panking.
(1)
Nature of the Budget for the F.Y. 1949 and their
Enforcement.
(2)
Deflaticnary Factors in the Field of Money an?
Banking.
(3) Contraction of the Bank of Japan Notes.
b. Factors in the Field of Foreign Trade.
Actual Records of Export Shipment and Export
Contracts..
(2) Problem of 360 yen Rate.
(3) External Factors affecting Our Exports.
(4) Other Factors hempering the Expansion of Exports.
3. Impact of Deflation on Industry.
a. Production

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
b. Indices showing the Shrinkage of Effective Denand.
(1) Increase of. Stockpiles.
(2)
Increase in Unccllected Prcceeds and Acccunts
Payable.
(3) "Fall in Flackmarket Price.
c. . Enterprise Manegement.
(1) Industries which depend heavily on Public Finance.
(2) Easic Industries.
(3) Export Industry, etc.
d Future Problems.
(1) Problem concerning Subsidies and Price Structure.
(2) Problem concerning Kouans.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
(3)
Prcblem concerning Distribution System and
Price Contrcl.
4. Social Impact of Deflation.
a. Increase of the Unempleyed.
b. Stoppage of Wage Rise.
c. Difficulties of Mediun and Small Intustries.
d. Stagnation of Urban Living Standard.
e. Deterioration of Farn Village Economy.
5. Conclusion

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
1
I. Preface
The enronie infletion after tne  p has been linetly "roosve y te en-
forcement of the balanced budgets and the establishment of  tnyl exchan-
ge rate, and thus Japan's economy has made a long stcide towars mormaliza-
tion. Our next turget is to expand quickly production end xpusts on the
basis of the stabilised economy in accordance witi. cconomic prineip les.
In the meantime a chain of deflationary factors such as cputraction of
currency, stagnation of  roduction, drop in prices, shortag of money in en-
ferprises, lack of purchasing power, increase of unemployment, stc. has
started to manifest themselves recently. It is only natural that sueh de-
flationary factors have come to appear in the wake of the long chronic in-
flation, and it would be almost impossible to normalize Japan's economy vith-
out a transition period of this.kind.
Inasmuch as, however, the frailty of Japan's economy-surplus labor,
shortage of incigenous resources, poor accumulation of capital, high depend-

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.97)
ency on forign trade, etc. -has been accentuated in postwar, it would be as
much or even more dangerous than infl tion if the present deflationary trend
following the stabilization develops beyond the limits of normal adjustments.
In other werds, if Jepan's econamy which has lost much of its flexibility
after the wor secvuse w the extremely low inoove level were exp sed to a
severe do lati  it is vory likely that the basis of Japan's ec n my itself
ou whict cntmrprise rati nalization is vs be attained cullapses by the
impact f increasing s cial conflicts.
In 1948 Sir Staff rd Cripps, Chancellor of the Exchecker, stated in his
address  the budgets t the efrect that it would be necessary to prepare
thenselves s that they might be able to catch the moment when a deflation-
ary trend ruplases tne fading inflationary pressure and to take immediate
steps for the adjustments of acononic end fiscal policies.
The present Japan's econamy.may be likened to a sericus patient to whom a
big operation has been just administered. We have to endeaver to avoid the
advont ef -crisis by analyzing the changing economic trend promptly and care-
fully and taking appropriate countar-measures commensurate with the changing
circumstances.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Hereunder we tried to grasp the recent economic trend fron various
angles. In this connection, Lowever, it is noted that altheugh the com-
pilation of various economic statistics has greately improved after the war
it still takes about twe nonths thus hindering very much our efforts for
fact-finding analysis, especially under the present circumstances in which
economic conditions are changing at a very quick tempo. Althougn we were
thus forced to use some estimated figures and description by exaaples,
hereunder we tried to make an observation as objectively as possible.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
3
2. Analysis of Deflationary Factors.
a. Factors in the Field of Public Finance, Money and Ranking.
The key-note of the recent deflationary trend in the inancial
field is reflected in the contraction of currency, which is mainly attri-
butable to the budgets for the 1949 fiscal year. Although it is very
plain that the tight-money situation has been aggravated by such factors
as strict loan policy of general financial institutions, suspension and
promotion of collection of the Reconstruction Finance Pank loans, the
fundamental cause of the tight-money situation may bo found in the
formulation of the new budgets.
(1) Nature of the Budgets for the F.Y. 1949 and their Enforce-
ment.
The budgets for the F.Y. 1949 is noteworthy in their attain-
ment of a true balance but they contain a possibility of causing a deflation-
ary trend. The deflationsry factors of the said tudgets consist of currency -
contraction to be found in the composition of the budgets themselves
(cuper balanced tudgets), reduction of the purchasing power through tax
collection and substantiel decrease in government investment.
Natury of the
(a)
Mere-thah-balanced Budgets

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
As much as 92 billfon yen of government funds consisting
of 56.l billion yen of the redemption of RFB bonds held by the Bank of
Japan (70.3 billion yen of RFB bonds held by the Benk of Japan at the
ind of last March minus 14.1 billion yen thereof redeemed with delivery
bonds), rupayment of 25 billion yen of money borrowed frem the Bank of
apan by the Fireign Trade Special Account and 5 billion yen of estimated
surplus is expected to flow back directly to the Bank of Japan, while
approximately 41 billion yen of government funds estimatod to flow
int: the general financial institutions through the redemption of RFB bonds
and national bends held thereby, interest payment, etc. may return to the
Bank of Japan away frem the industrial field very much in need of funds,
depending (n the industrial conditions prevailing and the attitude of
bankers thereto.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
4
Factors causing Currency Contraction
Contained in the Budgets for the FY 1949
(In Millions cf Yen)
1. Funds flowing back to the Fank cf Japan
1. Redemption of RFB Bends.
RFB bonds held by the Bank of Japan (as of the end of March)
70,304
Delivery bonds
14,114
National bends held by the Bank
of Japan
1,452
Excessive Redemption of Charcoal
and Fire Wood Certificates
300
Total
57,942
2. Surplus
Surplus in the General Acccunt
267
Increase of Funds in the
Special Accounts
28,057
Isiue of Lecal Prnds
-23,300
Total
5.024

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
3. Repayment of Borrowed Money
General Account
458
Special Accounts
845
Printing Office
Precious Metal
500
877
property Tax & Other Revenues
Foed Control
5
Foreign Trade
25,000
Governmental agencies such as
People's Finance Bank, etc.
1,273
Total
28,958
Grand Total, (1 + 2 + 3)
91,924
2. Funds flowing to General Financial Institutions (possibme factors
of deflaticn)
1. Redemption of RFB bonds held by General Financial Institutions
38,796
inclusive of Deposit Bureau
2. Redemption of National Bonds (ex-
clusive of those held by the Bank
1,836
of Japan)

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
5
Excessive Redempticn of
Food Certificates
285
Grand Total
40,918
(b) Inerease af Tax Burden
Unler the present circumstances in which the family
budgets are still suffering from deficits the increase of people's burden
or the increase of inccme tax as well as other indirect taxes immediately
affects the people's power to buy consumer goeds, thereby aggravating
the shortage of money. The tax burden as against the national income in
the F.Y. 1949 is estimsted to increase from 18.9% in the last fiscal year
to 25.8%. As no revision was made to the Inccme Tax Law including the
basic allowexce at the time of formulation of the budgets for the present
fiscal year tne inc me tax burden was increased in substance to the extent
that the price level was raised. The everage burden of earned income tax

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
of government workers and employes in manufacturing industry is compared
as follows with that at the time when the budgets were finally formulated
in the last fiscal year. The burden of married workers especially in-
creased substancially.
Burden of Earned Income Tax in Yen
(Unit: Yen)
June 1948
April 1949
Average
Average
income
Tax
Rate income
Tax
Rate
Government. Workers
(single)
3,791
312
8.2
6,307
792
12.6
11
(W1th 2 dependents)
3,791
12
0.3
6,307
492
7.8
Employes in Manufacturing
Industry(single)
4,395
420
9,5
8,329
1,242
14.9
11
(With 2 dependents)
4,395
120
2.7
8,329
94211.3

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
5
3. Excessive Redempticn of
285
Food Certificates
40,918
Grand Total
(b) Increase of Tax Burden
Under the present circumstances in which the family
budgets are still suffering from deficits the increase of people's burden
or the increase of inccme tax as well as other indirect, taxes immediately
affects the people's power to buy consumer goods, thereby aggravating
the shortage of money. The tax burden as against the national income in
the F.Y. 1949 is estimated to increase from 18.9% in the last fiscal year
to 25.8%. As no revision was made to the Inccme Tax Law including the
basic alloweace at the time of formulation of the budgets for the present
fiscal year the income tax burden was increased in substance to the extent

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
that the price level was rsised. The everage burden of earned income tax
of government workers and employes in manufacturing industry is compared
as follows with that at the time when the budgets were finally formulated
in the last fiscal year. The burden of married workers especially in-
creased substancially.
Burden of Earned Income Tax in Yen
(Unit: Yen)
June 1948
A2ril 1949
Average
Average
income
Tax
Rate
income
Tax
Rate
Government Workers
(sinle)
3,791
312
8.2
6,307
792
12.6
(With 2 dependents)
3,791
12
0.3
6,307
492
7.8
Employes in Manufacturing
Industry(single)
4,395
420
9,5
8,329 1,242
14.9
11
(With 2 dependents)
4,395
120
2.7
8,329
94211=3

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
6
In the field of local taxes, their rates are very heavy (15% in the busines
tax,20% in the real estate acquisition tax) and the revenues of amusement
tax, land tax, house tay and inhabitant tax are expected to be increased
respectively by 300%, 150%, 100% and 60% in the present fiscal year as
compared with thcse in the last fiscal year. The tax burden of farmers
and smaller entrepreneurs also is thus increased thereby aggravating
their finencial plight es stated below and resulting in increasing the
pressure on the effective demand for noi only consumer gocds put also
producer goods. In the meantime the abeve circumstances naturally
affect tax collection and it is estimated that if no special efforts
were made the collection of local taxes would be about 20% below
the target (150.billion yen).

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
(c)
Substancial Reduction of Government Investment
The principal construction expenses included in the
budgets for the F.Y. 1949 are compared as follows with those in the
budgets for the F.Y. 1948.
Government Investment (In Millions of Yen)
F.Y 1948
F.Y 1949
Fublic Works Expenses
(inclusive lecal bond
issue therefor)
82,019
78,844
Construction Acccunt
(National Railway)
21,298
16,548
Profit & Loss Account
11.
)
23,352
28,271
Sub-tctal
44,650
44,820
Construction Accgunt
(Crmmunication)
17,634
18,862
Profit & Loss Account
11
3,609
8,798
Sub-tctal
21,243
27,860
Grand Total
147,912
151,524
(100)
(100)

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
7
As the price rise in the sbove peric1 is estinated t b- ptoun o-305.
the constructien expenses for the F.Y 1949 are decreasel t v: extent
in substance as cempered with thosc for the F.Y 1948.
As stated shove the deflaticnery nature of the budgets for the F.y
1949 is manifesting itself in thst the increase cf fiscil rev-nuer tends
to pres: down the purchasing pewer for consumer gocds while  part -f the
national inccme siphoned up by the Government is likely tc flov hack
to and renain in the netional treasury or the Bank of Japan tamcush the
repayment of national debts such as RFE bonds and money borrowe? from the
Bank of Japan and es fiscal surplus without returning to the national
economy in the form of inaustrial investnent or in the foré of individual
income.
Hor these defletionary factors in the budgets for the F.Y 1949 arc
.manifestins fhenselves so far will be seen herebelow.
(1) Enforcement of the Budgets

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
71 billion yen of taxes or 13.8% of the target. as acainst
9% in the cerrespontin: peried for the last fiscal year was collected
ty th end of June.
(In Millions of Yen)
Tax Ccllection by End of June 1949
Collection by
Rate in Corres-
End of June
Budgets
Rate
ponding peried
in Last Fiscel Year
Incone Tax
36,919
310,202
11.9%
9.1%
With hel :ing
28,308
120,202
23.6
18.7
8,507
190,000
4.5
3.8
Self assessment
8,993
27,271
33.0
9.9
Corperate Tax
8,888
65,035
13.7
8.1
Liquer Tax
Teytile Consunption
2,158
17,313
12.5
13.4
Tax
Article Tax
2,832
26,999
10.5
10.2
Transaction Tax
(Cash revenues)
4,332
42,155
10.3
6,875
25,685
26.7
Others
Total
70,993
514,660
13.8
9.0

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
8
The tutel sule of tobacco by the end of June was 35, 5c5 million yen
or 3.2% below the target, while the railway fares (betn assenger n
cargo) in the month of Mmy decreased as compared with those in April and
especially with respect to passenger fares the original estimates of reve
nues are forced to b reduced by 20 - 30% on account of the une pected
decrease in the number of passengers following the upward revision of pas-
senger fares. Thus, the decrease of revenues in the form of passenger fares
coupled with the delayed commencement of operation of tne US Aid Counter-:
part Fund (5.6 billion yen for the purchase of railway bonds as late as
July I for the first time) has been adversely affecting the Railway Special
Account to the extent that almost no payment was mede for construction
in the month of June because of the shortage of money in the Acçount in
spite of the fact that 10 billion yen was transferred from the General
Account. In the above is seén the coaflict between the balanced budgets

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
and the decrease of purchasing power commensurate with the deflatlonary
trend, Should the present deflationary trend become more pronounced in
future the pressure of tax burden would become more heavy as production
decrcases and as the size of national income dwindfes and it would become
very difficult to secure the whole amount of tar revenues estimated in the
budgets.
In the meantime the disbursement of government funds became very active
in and after the last 10 days of April and during the lst quarter 23.4 bil-
lion yen of termination of wer expenses, 30.7 billion yen of price adjust-
ment subsidius, 10.7 billion yen of public works penses, 8 billlon-en
of government investment, etc. were disbursed in the General Account whilo
in the Special Accounts 10.7 billion yen (railway) and 29.2 billlon yen
(foreign trade) were disbursed. Thus as shown in the following table the
disbursement of government funds exceeded the collection thereof Sy 29.1
billion yen during the lst quarter.

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
9
Dispursement and Collection of Government Funds
(In Millions of ven)
Excessive
Disbursement
collection
Disbursement
End of April
127,827
115,038
12,789
End of May
142,565
120,657
21,908
113,227
118,733
(一) 5,506
End of June
Total
383,619
354,428
29,191
recaunt
Uui
Let us look at the effects which the dofletionary budgets for the present
fiscal year have brought about during the lst quarter. Out of 15.1 billion
yen of RFB bonds redeemed during the 1st quarter 12.6 billion yen was of
those held by the Bank of Jepan and the redemption thereof was made with de-
livery bonds while the remainder or 2.5 billion yen was of those held by
city banks. Thus the contraction of currency was not so substantial.
Inaamuch as. however, in and after July en incrsasing amount of RFB bonds

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
held both by the Bank of Japan and by the general financial institutions is
expected to be reduemcd in accordance with the RFB ound redemption program,
sxerected
deflationary effects from this side are flered to become conspicuous in and
after 2nd quarter. With respect to the Foreign Trade Special Account its
borrowing is inereased by 15 billion yen instend of making the repayment of
25 billion yen as originlly scheduled. Herein lies amether factor of
dcflation in future.
(2) Deflatienary Fictors in the Field of Money and Banking
Financial Cenditions in the lst Quarter.
The tight-money situation caused by the tax collection com
paigh and the delay in governmental payments was substantially eased up
from around the end of April when the new budgets was put into operation
with the result thet a remrkable progress was made in governmental payment
connected with price adjustment, termination of war, Foreign Trade Kodan,
etc. while the bank deposits increased and the collestion of bank loans was
improved. As shown below the amount of bank loans increased steadily in the
months of May and June and the ratio of time deposits as against the totel

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.94)
10
deposito curs ond ing bus recovered from 17.2% at the end of January to
19.1% in . 9.5 n May and 20.5% Ir Tne following the recovery of
confidence in exreney.
Increase or Decrense of Bank Deposits
January-March 1948
22,699 million yen
April-Jane
35,468
Jenuary-March 1949
53,200
pril
x 20,253
Yy
22,707
21,640
April-June 1949
23,984
In spite of the fact that the fund situation of city banks was very
much eased as scen above the banks were extremely carefal in their credit
extention initially end in the months of Anril and Has 9 6 hillian.

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
was repaid to the Bank of Japan albeit as much as 1o billion yen of govern-
mental depesits were withdrawn in the same period. In the month of June. while
the amourt of bank deposits continued to incarese, the attitude of city
banks becamc powowhat mere positive and their credit extentien substantially
incroased witn tie fund ruquirements for the purchase of imported goods
such as w t n, sey bean, whale oil, raw wool, soy bean cake, etc., fund
requirements for the clearance of outstanding debts of coal mines, and fund
requirements for the purchese of cocoons coupled with the fund requirements
for suttloment at the ond of the quarter; and thus, the amount of borrowing
from the Sapk of Japan also increased by approximately 9 billion yen during
the month of June. Thus the increase of bank 1oans in April-June 1949
amounted to 50.9 billion yen showing a substanoial increase as against those
in thc corresponding period last year and January-March this year.
The tota! supply of industrial funds during April-June this year as
calculated by cach big supply route such as banks, the Reconstruction Fianee
Bank, bond floating, and stock payment (in this connection it is noted that

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.83)
31
 upl may ) mod  s blll yn (exludn 
colleetlon of ao loans #tt delivery ponly! an in the followine table
sbowiny a allpht hereas ver tasee in vhe prpuspnsng par lect er
It la aoted, Lowever, obat the defie tonery brord is beiny wxpodited
frop  o tllosing owo foctope despise the lucreage ln total tnd eupply
ac saen above. Firetly, although the big enterprlecs op high credit stand-
ing are ravored in ootaining bank loans, flesting their bonds or lnoreazing
their eupital thoee enturprises ether than the abave are sufferine from the
tome ahertage of morey; and socondly fllowing the susgenslon of RFB
Ins those entorprisos used to obtain eguipment fuade from RB heretofore

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.92)
Supply of Inductrial Funde
111111en
Increase
Inorease
Fleating
Stock
Dr Bank
of R.F.B.
or Deten-
Payment
2.tal
Loans
Loens
tures
J.. 1948
27,348
15,251
80
3,737
46,916
-. 1940
30,566
16,622
0
10.010
56,998
Junuury
3249
X
147
6,751
140
4,093
10,857
February
9,693
5,993
200
4,170
20,056
March
17,350
8,059
280
4,433
30,122
Total
26,896
20,803
620
12,696
61,15
April
7,007
X
14,222
345
4,904
x
1,966
(x
108)
Mey
10,626
€ 93
220
6,889
1€,42
X
June
33,274
734
725
3,591
11,936
X
Tal
50.907
x
18,649
1.290
19,854
56,432
(x1,535)
(70,546
The figurey in parenthesis in the column of R.P.B. loans show the
ocileetion minus sae dulivery bonds of 14,1l4 million yen.
i

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.66)
w
une      s   
    , mr .
 . v  brel   cwr in.
xpensor eo co
se. e sopsved,   ror sttonusization,tn o sou 
   y
de   h   y l n. 
ds   n ver rra soo sln y 
disoned b.    d y st 

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.82)
o  )
111
On the arcend, in rerd to  f tort
rabee competitioo s apprarine  e funa stantien 1 it, aks is
eased. Especislly witt regard t me discouns f trade bills, edvances
of trade funds, funts for the purchase f layortud peir llum, cte. they
are eompetint sith each other in stninr customers n 1 verin
sheir interet rle.  normelregumente fer
prises ef high credic standins are lzc edequetly ev .
Under suen cireumstances thy lceal toanches of pa or lerxe re
sending their funds t heir head fficer and the local banks are elther
inareasing their deposics in cajer tanks or trying t fini prifitatle
trancactians in be citiee. 1t is aleo ncted that the inv itmen: in
débentures and local tonde is being walccmed in anticipation of the
stop in rise f the interest rate.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
13
(b) Suspension of RFB Loans and Accommodaticn of Equipzent Funds
The suspension of RFE loans has affected preatly the indu-
stries in the supply of equi'pment funds. As shown in the following
table 22.1 billion yen or twc thirds of the total supply of equipuent
funds was supplied by the Reconstructicn Finance Bank suring the
January March period 1949. Although the suspension of RFB loans was
anticipated to be ccvered by the operatien of the US Aid Counter-part
Fund during the lst quarter 1949 fiscel year, it was not started during
the sald quarter with the result that the total supply of equipment funds
during the said quarter decreased to opproximately one half of that
during the 4th quarter 1948 fiscal year.
Acconmodation of Equipment Funds (In Millicns of Yen)
City Bank
RFB Loans
Debentures
Stocks
Total
Loans
January 1949
2,517
5,646
27
708
0.898
Feburary
2,441
5,600
38
721
8,800
Harch
3,864
10,951
54
766
15,635
Total
8,822
22,197
119
2,195
33,333
April
2,651
0
66
1,348
4,065
May
3,398
0
42
1,729
4,169
June
5,391(estimated)
139
2,390
7,920
0
5,467 19,154
Totàl
11,440
0
247

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
As seen in the above, though the city banks have tried to supply as much
equipment funus as possible by themselves, through syndicates or by
investing in the debentures of the Industrial Bank of Japan with the
funds aceruing from the sale of RFB bonds to the Bank of Jepan, the
recred improved only by about 30% as against the preceding quarter,
mainly because of such factors as the risks involved, profitability cr
the composition of deposits (the ratio of time deposits is very low).
Although the supply through detentures and stocks dcubled as ggainst
the preceding quarter, the absolute amount thereof was not great.
Inasmueh as the operation of the US Aid Counterpart Fund was delayed
the syndieate loans of city banks with the good offices of the Bank
of Japan playeu a ti rcle in the supply of equipment funds and as shoan
in the following table they sharply increasad in the nonths of ay and
Juno.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.87)
It is noted uhat at regeras socn rund pequirerentr as mey by unwalcomed
Srom et stondpount of ourd punuda: (loag-corm Funo for the construction
t lars se     rnn f  indury)
sd ficer r
Prm  aeccint or
 ank   
the pesorietn netr of good
nettonal ccomy.
officee for aaguetine te privere benkene tntereee wit e interests
of vrors nstionul veonory.
Leans made unor pood effie f  B rr of ren
Ecaipment onts
Workjeg Funt
Trtal
10,975
April-June 1946
2.025
14,00
16,193
January-Marcn 1949
(508)
(213)
(721)
767
6,393
7;680
April 1949
(130)
( 0)
(130)
1.271 10,137
11,408
May
1,566.12,522
14,090
June
Total
2.626
29.552
33.178

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.92)
(Figures in parenthesis shey the amount of leans guaranteed by RFB).
It cannet te doniad trat such reductien in the supply uf equipment funds
as stated above has produced the decrease of effective denand fer producer
goods on che hand and has adversely affected the rehabilitatfon f
quipment. The fund requirements cther than 3 billion yen fer ceal
et 6 6-6.8 billien yon ef essential equipment runde cstinated oy the Bank
of Jajan and the Lconumle Stabilization Board uo be regulred for the
Ist quarter as a atop-gep up t the coutencement of the Us Ald Counter-
part Fund operatien have been almas- fully covered by the syndicate
Icans (inclusive of the sc-called stop-gap lcens), by floating debontures
er inor easing capital or by the Industrial Bank f Japan, as they have
been mostly the recuiroments by theey enterprises of hign er dit standing.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.85)
1
 ly     .     
  d  f     
ens dr comecton wn ther svouris e.v.  . conneetion
is  tet we e pree  ft e dreee in
tos o decrase as e effecv lesend becreacee vtllne the
acc mulaticr of stcckpiler an.  ccnsequens reductdun of pr quction.
() Contractien of the Bank f Japan Notes.
Lat us tare a lr k at the povement of currency tcoue as the
summar/ of the defleticnary srenl steted abeve. (ef creph 1)
Io spite f tic fact that the amourt of-the Bank of Janan Netes
in circulatien usually tales a turn for the increase efter April every
year it continued t: lecrease manth by month this year even after ayril
and it contracted by 11.9 billien yen during the 1st quarter.
Issue of the Bank of Japan tes (In Millione of Yen)

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.92)
341,575 (100)
At the Ene of Januery 1949
322,48(94)。
Pebruary
312,5+7(92)
11
Parch
315,932 (93)
91
Arril
11
May
305,937 ( 20)
300,628( 88)
11
June
11
July
295,492 (87)
While the net excersive distursemnre of vernment funds auring the
lst quarter was 2.4 billion yen (tne tetal excessive disbursenent of
29.1 billlon yen stated abeve minus the abserpticn of natianal lunds
and detentures and the withdrewal of government depesits) the cresit
extention by the Lany of Japan curing the lst quarter contracted by 13
tilliun yen (ccntraction of curreney by uther rearons emounts tr 1.2
tillion yan). Thi: means that the city banks helu-duwn their creuit
extentien to that xtent.
a

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
15
As regards the clearance of tills it decrease efter barch as
choan telow.
Clearance of Fills.
Number (In thousands) Sum (Hilliun Yen)
January 1949
1;195
171,593
Fetruary
1;449
198,321
March
1,703
253,991
一
Apr1l
1,565
243,375
1,662
235,885
May
1,606
234,848
Juns
As seen above, the fect tht the currency continues to decrease et
the time when it takes e seasonsl upward turn, in spite of the fact
that direct deflatienary factcrs in the filed of pu'lic finance
have not yet fully appeared, is feared to portend the advent of a
full-teale daflationary crisis in future:

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
17
b. Factors in the Fiela of Foreign Trade
In crder to realize the normal circulaien of Japan's economy
by covering a considerable decrease in the domestic purchasing power
expected to be brought sbout by the budgets for the F.Y. 1949 cur exports
would have te be substantially expanded over and above the present
export target ty developing forelgn market. Although the expert
record so far includine the amount of expcrt cortraets concluded
prior to the ectablichment of a single ex-hange rete is not so
unfavorable we varne: le too optimistic even about the attainment
of the pres-nt expert targer of 600 milllen dollars in viex of the
recent trend of expert contrects. Meanwhils the stockpiles of
expert soour are accumuleti nd t ose of textiles alone amount
to as much  50 billior yen. The simpls reduction of cost is
cunsidered not sufficient te solve thic problem.
The srortage of funds in export industries is being aggravated
and the credit extenrien is being hampered in fear of the sluggish
experts in future. Thus it is ncted that, contrary to the general.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.97)
expectatien that the export trade would play a big role in prevent-
in dellation, it is becoming a deflationary factor second in magnitude
to the financial facter stated above.
Herebelow we will shaw the recent export records and the various
reasons hampering a cubstantiul export expansion.
(1) Actual Records f Expert Shipment and Export Contracts.
In 1948 our impo"ts amcunteu to 683 millien dollars
while uur exports amounted t 59 million dollars with the unfstorable
balance bein, 414 millien dollars. In 1948 the ipports amcunted to
approximately 60 million dollars almost every monti: and the
exports inereased from the monthly average of 10 million dollars
in the begginine of the year to 30-40 million dollars teward the end
of the year. Ar shown in the following table in 1949 our exports
amounted to 37.1 millicn dollars in January, 37.0 milllcn dellars
in February and 45.8 millicn dollars in March. Although cur experts

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.93)
28
in term f dellars in ana aftar di ril are not yet available they are
estimatyd t  appr.yim rly 5 masli n  llars in april and about 50
millfun llocs in ley on the Lasir of the exparts in term f yen. Prom
the ek in Mayythe sren' seume to cove teken a Jownwere turn with our
ports being eetihste et a littl
 than o million dellars in
June an 33 milli n llers in July (n the besis f the record in 1st
and End ten days in July). (c.f. myh 2)
Expert Pecer:
Jenuary
eruary Herch
April May
June lst
2nd 10 da.
10 days cf of Jul:
In terms
Exp:rts
37.1
37.0
45.5
July
of dellars
(Million
Imcrts
74.0
65.5
67.9
Dollars)
In terms of
Exicrts
114.5
110.0
138.8
139.0
179.3
145.3 34.0 44.4
Yen (Billion
Yen)
In orts
65.7
97.7
119.1
148.2
227.
276.1 98.9 82.0
Note: The record in dollars is based on the stetistics compiled by
the Resorch and Program Division, ESs while the record in Yin is
Lase' on the statistics compiled by the Ministry of Finence.
The stealy expansion of cur exports stated above may be attributed to
such curable factors as people's voluntary cooperation for the attainment

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.95)
of self-support of Japen's eeenomy, comparatively smooth recovery of
preduction, reaction of the decreasing trend of i mestic purchasing power,
progress in the conclusien of trade agreement with varicus countries,
etc. on one hand and to the after-effect of the abnermal expansien in
expcrt cuntracts caused iy such tonpcrary couses es statel below. as
shown in the follewin- table the anount of expert contracts in January-
April 1949 anounted to 240 million kllere or B3 of that of the untira
year of 1046. This obnerasl exponsicn was caused by such facters as the
hasty conclusion ef centr-cts for wek yen rocds in anticijatiin of the
establishment of a singlc exchange rate at a compsratively str nr yen
Level, hasty conclusion f contracts for the geods for Intia in anticipation
of the suspension of the cel y the en of March, couclusion of expurt

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.90)
19
contracts with the Netherlends East Indles to cispose of a subs tantiul
amount of cotton yarn in stock, ete. The reason vy in the manth
Jenuary mo mact as lli millien dellur werth cf rt conuracts
were concluded is ths. the cunurect conelusior wan concentrated in
sonuary in anttcipatien of the rice in the prsees  co sten coud
folloxtng the untorcement ef the sale of the State-owned raw ceaten
in end after February.
Amount of Export Contrects in Dollers (Millien puilers)
June July
january
February
March
Aori1
May
SC
207
i yays
2949
of une
ofNuns
111.3
40.8
43.3
45.1
25.0
39 39
(rrepared oy the Ministry of International Traae and Industry)
On April 25 this year a single exchange rate was established at the
level of 36C yen rer one US dcllar and immediately thare after, that
is to say, in the month of May the amount of export contracts decreased
to 25 willion dollars or about one half of that in the preceding month.
With the exception of the yarns whici: showed & slight recovery from the
excreme slumi in the preceding month, almest every item recorded a sherp

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.87)
February throupn Ap ed in sh monta  y shey am unt t: 5o
aillter lere r Piß of tes ttel.
A shary decrease in  ameunt  e ee conracts in say may 
partry explainea as a peuctien of abnoreat expanscon of exp rt contracts
in the early wonths of the or. In suer me poupt of expot contrects
Pecavered to the level f so millien vallare mainly by toe expanrion
in suen itams as mechinery, metrl scou und ctmer wiscellanecus scels.
In the month ef July, hewever, it is expected to deerease again to
the level of 36-37 millior dollars. In the meantime a sharp increase
in the cancellation of contracts in recent months is  ticeatle and' we
cannot be too optimistle abcut the futurs in this fiell in view of
the atcve an many the: internal and external factors.
(2) Problen of 360 yen Rate

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.96)
With the urtablishment of a ingle exchante rate in April
the prices of export pords in yen heretyf re determinel on the basis of
productior ccst were adjustes to the internatiunal priccs by the uniform
rate of 36o yen, anl furthernore, the sutsidy for exports were liscontinued
without exeeption. Thus the manufacturers of weak yen ex ert roods were
fore either to discentinue their exyirt or to reduce thier pr luctien
cost. This is the ressen why, prior to the establishment of a single
exchange pate, it war ary rehended that the expansion of exy orts might
be adversely affected by the estetlishment of a single exchange rate.
However, because of the recent decreasing tendeney of dunestic purehesin
power, the efferts for the expansion of exports have to be doubled thus
accelerating the retionalization. Some manufacturers are expcrting
their products beloy their cest as an mergoney measure in the peried
of tran iticn. Thus, the domestic cenditions have improved more than
expected for the expansicn of exports.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.90)
2
21
On the other nand, the prossure eypeetei to be increared en the ccst
of expurt poode, by presible rises in drmertic prices fcliowine the
reduction of subsifier, an' oy the cuntinuation of a deflaticnary
teniency in tho est-war vorld ecen ay, connet be dicregardel and many
domestic conflicts mey be brought about throurh the process of ratien-
arization of exycrt inductric esl relstae industries ens tiso excestive
"hunger experts". Put the future trena of cur exports ir considered
on external tactora as aell as
to depen?
ur homest facters  en uxturnai facterer
as a matter of fact, the statistius show that the recent slump in our
exports was not necesserily caused by the weak yen exports goods. The
amount of expert contrects of such weak yen items es pottery, cellulrid
goods, artificial flcwers, etc. in the month of June exceeds the actual
records in January and in February (the record of expert contracts
of such items as paper, rubher goods, toys, etc. has also substentially
recovered) while the eyport contracts of such strcng yen goods as yerns,

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
caustic soda, etc. are in slump.
(3) External Factors Affecting Our Experts
The first of the internaticnal factors affecting or is considered
to affect our expcrts in future is the  vnwart trend f internstienal
prices, especielly those in the United States. The U.S wh: lessle price
index (1c0 in 1926) tock a lownturn from the reak cf 170 reccrded in
last August and by the bergining of July this year it decreased to
153 or by about 10%.
aclitg
declinerf
The recent ecenemic recession in the United Stater reflected in the
dropping prices stated alove is alversely affecting our experts, and while,
on the tasis of the export record in term of yen, the exports to the
United States cccupied 33% of the tuta1 in 1948 they decreased to 28%
in January 1949, 20% in Fetruary, 19% in March, 15% in April and 17% in May.

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.96)
2:
The second is the repercussion of the r cession in the nites Srates
stated sbove which will affect more cr lers cther countries and the
world-wide transition from the sellers' market tc the buyers' market
following the rehabilitation of prcduction in Europe and the mitiration
of shortage of materials. Thus, market claims are being made to cur
exports in an increasing number and the floer price systeu is lecumin
a bottleneck to the expansion of our expcrts, and alreajy in the cas
of steel products the floor prices were lowered to expans the vicrte.
This prcblem is not considered to be temp rary in nature. Wit. reveri
to the contracts hastily concluded in the carly months f this year
in anticipation of the establishment of a single exchenge rate, the
cancellation is being mate in an increasing number reflecting the
decrease of demand abroad. By the end of May the cancellation of export
contracts are estimated to amount to l4.4 million dollars in total
(estimated by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry) 13.1
million dollars of which is of the textiles.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
The third is the shortage of dollar funds in other countries which
is getting acute ty the slump of their exports to the dollar area
The excessive imports of England from the United States increased from
the monthly average of 28.6 million dollars in 1948 t the m nthly
average of 34.6 millien dollars in the 1st quarter, 1949, 47.7 millicn
dollars in April, 61.0 miNion dollars in Nay. Thus, coupled with the
decrease of exports frem the other sterling areas, the amcunt of gold
and dollars hel: ty England decreased from 1884 million dollars at the
end of 1948 to 1,624 mill:on dellars by the end of June 1949. The
magnitude of the outflow of gcld and dollar funds from England will le
well recoinized if we consider the fact that during the reried 368
million jellar worth aid was given to England by the United Statel and
Canada. This is the reason why the devaluation of the sterling is
consistently rumcred. The acute shcrtage, of dollar funds in the sterlint
Especially the acule
area tends to intensify the competition in export markets and to strengthe:
various import restrictions in the sterling area.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
23
While the experts fron Jayan which belongs to the ullar area to the
sterling area are expanding comparatively smoc thly the export: from
the sterling area to Jupan are somewhat sluggish. Such being the
case, England announced tha t she would not approve the import of
gray cotton clcth and rayon cloih male in Japan until such tine when
the problem of settlement in dollars is s.lved by the conelusion
of a new trade arrangement retween England end Jayan, thereby trying
to conserve her dollar funds as much as pessible. Furthurat re
while Australia prohibited the import of non-essential gocds from
Japan Kenya and Uganda prohibited the import of cotton geeds from
Japan, and the import restrictions in Malaya and Seuth Africs are
considerably strengthened. As stated above, India suspended the OGL
system as frow April 16 and this system has not yet been resumec. The
exports to the sterling area from Japan increased from 40s of the total
in 1947 (30% in 1948) to 52% in Apr1l and 46% in lay 1949. In the

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.97)
amount of·recent export contracts the sterling area such as England,
there-
India, Uganda, Egypt, etc. hes the grestest importance, and
fore the protlem of import restrictions is very serious fer the expansion
of Japan's exports.
The fourth is the del yed economic reccvery in the Far Eastern
countries. The exports from Japan to the Far Eastern areas occupied
45% of the total in 1948 and they increased to 43% in January, 63%
Bebruary through April and 55& in May. Thus, the Far Eastern areas
are the best customers for the Japanese goods in the postwar period.
However, the political situation in China and cther Far Eastern countries
is still very unstable and prompt eccnomic recovery in those countries
cannot be expected. While Japan's export: to these countries have com-
peratively expanded Japan's imports from these countries are extremely
sluggish. This unbalance is feared te affect adversely cur exports to 
merf the factrs cotuich disturls
the re covery f our ex lost.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
2:
thase countrier socner or later, thereby eventually reducin, the scale
Cof trate with theee countries. Furthermare, contrary t the goneral
expectation, the prompt expansicn of trade witn the Cramunist cren in
China is considerel te be very difficult.
(4) Other Facters hampering the Expension of Exp rts.
After the war we have not been permitted to go abroad furcly u
trade, nor are we sufficiently informed cf the trend in foreign markets.
Thus the Japanese manufacturers can not adapt themselves to the chanrin
foreign demands. This is becoming the bottleneck of increasing ba uitude
for the expansien of cur experts at present when competition in foreign
markets is intensified. Upon the estsblishment cf the Foreign Exchange
Retension System the Jepanese manufacturers or traders were finally
permitted t go abroad for business and much expectetion is placed en
the sbove system as a great step toward the normalizatier of our trade
relations with other ccuntries.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
There are many other steps such as the permissien fur Japanese vessels
to go abrcal, lare charter of foreign vessels, participation of Japanese
in such businesses as insurance and foreign exchange, aprlication of the
most-favored-nation clause to Japan, sanction to the cancellation of
contracts, estsblishment of export financing compensatisn system, etc.
which are desired te be realized at the earliest possible date in view
of the conlitions prevailine in werle market for the expansion of our
exports. Furthermore, unler the present cireumstances in which the
shortage f dollar funds is prevailing world over, the prome tiun of
imports from the non-dollar ereas is considerel t be ne of the
fundamental steps for the expansion ef our experts, and therefere
efforts in this connectien will be required to be radoubled foll wing
the resumption of private imports.
i

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.94)
3. Impact of deflation on injustry
a. ProGuetion
The production index has been on tuo upwars curve until very pecently.
Production in the months of February, Meren er April was tee ighest since
the end of the war, seasonal stalemnte in Petruary having boen svertes due
to abundant supply of electricity on account of musually large mount or
rainfall. According to the Researeh and Frogram Division, Ess, Gue, the pro-
duction index of the month of April is 71.9 (1930-4 boing 100), and the pro.
duction level has surpassed the 193)-34 level cxcopt fer the textilus in-
dustry which is specially low as compared witn the pre-war level. The pro-
duction index, however, fell in tae month of Mey to 68.1 or 5.5% fall as com-
pared with the preceding month. The index of 68.1 is higner than any other
month since the end of the war except for the months of laren and April this
yeer and p0% higher then that of May last year, so that it may be said that
this much fall is notning to worry about. Nevertheless, in view of the fact

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.94)
that productien rires seasonally in the months of April and May and that the
fell is caused, uside from the rejuctton in cosl output coused by labor dis-
putes, maialy dy obe lbe fall as couparam wits tae preceding womth in the
machinery industry wiun rerlecte rm shrinkage cf purcnasing power, there
 is renson to asauve that toe slight fell in production in the month of May
fureshad ws production atalemate originated in deflation.
F lloving are production indicss by industry grouns which throw light
fer tno understurding of tho situati n.
Mining tud Manufacturing Industries Proauction
Iglices in Recent Months
(1930-34 = 100)
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
spr.
Moy.
May/Apr.
May 49/
May 48
Average
60.8
64.7
71.3
01.9
68.1
94.5
132
Miring
106.3
108.8
123.6
118.5
100.4
84.5
104
Manufacturing 53.8
57.9
62.7
64.8
63.1
97.
144
Textiles
30.7
26.2
27.1
27.2
27.7
102
117

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.85)
Metels
95.5
4.4
100.0
111.1
203
160
Machirey
95.4
97.7
104.0
ill.!
41.3
87.5
177
Ueranios
78.5
73.8
3.0
90.5
96.0
12.
168
65.7
1.
109.7
2.6
100
147
Cl.umical
Food
56.6
57.1
68.5
36.0
74.4
173
126
of he preccdine mentt xeept for the minin ent pechinery taaa .
and the productiun ef iren, cr nary eteel materiale, alumiom, 
lass, rayn am ndur sulphe was bgnest sne s end of he wer.
It has to l noted, nwover, tnst suen mainterunce ens slivht inerease
at preeuctlon pre not cuporty y norual circulatien ef economy but by
the desperate efforts of enterprisers to evert stoppage of production en!
catastrephe which vouls follce. As the fund-supply is nct necessarily
proportionate  such puce cf production, uner llected proceeds and

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.78)
escrents payable inerease. Many marufacturers are contipu ng production
at the order ei douendants, ruch a cosl-udnes and rallway, in the hope
that sume.Deasures will t. aken ty'se the siati n, in spite f the
foor that the fund supply for thr latoer is suspenaed, as suspunsiun of
(peratt.n wilr tomediately rend  their cmuip mnr sol latcr ffle. In
zucn ceees, ordur-making rodact n turns into sveculntive roluction wir
very prr sct ver.
It is to be eted fu ber t the prode h ef sundry poous vten ar
necesseryyy  a  onst  be r p ducien inder,
1
Pos recently seulined. Pr eourple, the prosuctien uf vaceum tute, ret
wae, atehes, ekine pan ts. bon x, is cwinr
in e ntract t. e inereosinoe suvou ries. rerlectin. the rulfils t
 the pentouy requroete  sefin i e nsar or p

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
27
ttapees shoving the shrirk earestuve sond
(1)
Incrca.e of stoerptles
Spoodles idicate inag  rurerer power at money sberg c
enterprises poer iroctly. it is pot y, a w vor, t vatinate- the
accaretely because th ere hel. a  are af  uet an
ditributren, cuch as penufecturtn viont, w blerr n reteilore,
end their smount is always chas tna. Moresver, there is  dor
disttnetien letween operatiny atre ond excass eosckpiline. Neverthelrrs,
it is evident thas stcckpiles - nor pnly of canruepeien puous but such
basic prolucticn materials as cosl and steel snd expert coods as well-
have rapidly increased since the latter par' of last year.
The coal stockpile ef the Coel Distribution Kodan nas increased as
shown in the following table.
Coal Steckpiles (1, 000 tons)
Dellvery to
Stockpiles
Monch
main industries
line
Fort
Market
Total
Jan.
2,850
623
316
575
1,514
Feb.
2,895
580
381
676
1,637
Mar.
3395
522
488
749
1,766
Apr.
3,044
429
993
1,940
May.
2,475
459
247
1,286
2,192
Jun.
2.579
420
712
1,622
2,824

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
Coal ptockpile has increased by roughly 9og, reaching four or five
times as much as ordinary stockpile, in the first six months of this
year, stockpile at port and mar et having imcreased as the delivery
decreased and stockpile at mine decreased on account of the improvemert
of transportation. Stocl pile is inercased oll the more as the Kodan
ceased to deliver to thest consumers whe have failed to mare payment
for conl. The stochpil: at the end of August is estimated to reach
4,000,000 tons (1.3 montas supply). The stockpile at the und of June
was 2,820,000 tons, er ¥9,000,000,000, which, together with 19,000.000,000
uncollected proceeds of the Kodan, is a great burden on the Kodan financing.
Mereover, 40% of the stockpiles is coking ccal, cosl for gas producer use
and cther high grade coal. The stockpiles in the hand of consumers have
-leo increased. At the end of June, the Japon Electricity Generation end
Transmission Compary had 71 days supply, Japap Steel Pipe 55 daye, Yahata
plant-of-Japan steel 36 days, Lamaishi Plent of tne same company 52 daye
and rokyc cas 35 day..

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
28
The stockpile of coke has als increased. While the steckpile at
the end of March last year was 30, 000 tens, that at the end of March, April
and May-this year was 100, 000 tns, 150,000 tcns and 200, 000 tons respectively.
It is cstimated that the st ckpile will reach 300, 000 tons by the end of
September. It is true thet the recent increuse of stockpile is attributable
partly to soacenel increases, but there is no doubt that it is caused
mainly by the cuney shortag on the part of conrumer enterprises. Such
increase in stockpiler affects poversely the 42,000,c00 tons production plan.
As tc steel, the sele dces not inerease in spite of the prospective
raise of official price. Following table shows recant increase in their
steckpiles.
Productien and Stockpiles of Steel (
(Unit:1,Oc0 tons)
Prrduction
Stockpiles
Lonth
Maker
Whclesaler
Total
Jan.
112
122
26
148
Fet.
127
134
26
16c
Mar.
144
122
32
154
April
144
142
59
202
May
152
151
59
209
June
159
161
6c
221

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
Besides coal and steel, caustic scda, electlytic copper, electlytic
lead, aluminum, electric wire, fire-brick, rubber belt and dyestuffs are
showing increase in their stockpiles on acccunt of general shrinkage in
purchasing power or other srecial circumstances. Some or these stockpiles
reach as much as severay times their menthly production. On the other
hand, stockpiles of some high class consumption gocds are also inereasing.
The stockpiles of condensed and powdered milk, canned marine products
and canned meat have increased te 9 tines, 6 tines and 30 tines respectively
in the last ene year. It is true that the sbsclute amount of these stockpiles
does net much exceed normal smount of steckpiles, but thuir pressure upon
enterprises is nevertheless great, because enterprises have to reise fund
when their stockpiles increases and financial institutions are not willing
to lend money to them under the abnermal circunstances where the stockpile
fund of a month or twe is several times the cayital fund.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.89)
Phe inerease in the eypert y ehpiler is me I rr p markatle, Yho
dncreace in cxpert teysile steckpiler ds spectally romartable n secount
of the recent slump in the teyules trade wrien constitutes cue hoi
of cur total export trsde. one of tue mejor coures of sueh fhercser
in export gerds steekpiles is the canceller ten of ery rt conuract 
which we referred befoere. As for example, o les coetractr wath wescicere
of 15,000,000 yards of light silk fabries of v2,100,000,000 vere concellod
end she fabrics sre held by the enterprisers without being vuld in domesti
chanr:is.
The stockpiles held by the Textiles Foreigo Trade Loien at the ond
of May is as follows, the total being ¥28, 00c,c00,000.
Stockpiles of Textiles Tereign Trade Kcdsn at the
End of May

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.91)
Materials
Quanti ty
Menetw cy e(.,)
Cotton febrics
357,000 000 yd
12,990
Cotton yarn
10,900;000 1b
1,210
Silk fabrics
43,000,000 yd
3,010
Rayon fabries
27, ccc, cec ya
j,36c
Reyen staple fabrics
9,000,000 ya
450
Rayon yarn
3,830,000 1b
380
Rayen taple yarn
3,30,0001b
430
Wool and hard and best fibre
1,260
Wooler yorn
8
400 bale
1,410
750
Raw c.tton and wool
4,820
Secondary produets
Total
28.070
In auditien te tho so str erbpil  held by the Koden, there are some Wis,t
of silk fabrics, ectten yarn, cotten fatricr, woolen porn and woclen Fabric:
held by enterpricere on account of the cancellation of uhe Bs centrecre
and soce 6, 40c, 00t, G00 of sllk and silk febrics hel by unteup risers on
-ccount of the failure of concluding contrects, maling the total steel piles
(f textiles ever M5c,c0c,000,. It has therefore been decided to releas
180,c0c, c00 yards of cotuon fabries and some other items for aumestic ust.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.79)
3C
Dut the present eciplles f ro uator o pr l (1o monh sorply:
inslesmp 19,s00 1w sook un  Ootd se.) end 40000,000 yard
ef coton faes e    oy    .0
menthy exerte. ke   at o  y domestic
releasalcn
Poe inoreaso in crpiles ir se seen in e Minerel no Irtustria)
Go ds poreign prate Frdun. Whie  steerpiles bed oy o Keden at
the e of warch tast year wre .,0oo,coe, te  t end ef ar,
 d   year we 00..00 an .260..
respectively. of the stockpiler at the uns of May, 0.l6o,t,o is export
rejects. Such st ckpiles ars undcubtedly abooreal.
The promotion of exports which is essential for cur eccnonic sclfe
Lupport i un its way sc far os the domestic preparation is concerned, but
it ls seuuslly hampered by the restraint of forelgn market.
The Ministry of Internetional Trade and Industry and the Bank of Japan
have recently revealed the results of investigation of stockpiles. Accord:

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.93)
to the report of the former, the stockpilet at the ent of May are estimatel
to be 270,400.00.000. of wnich 233,00,000,000, or 473, is deemed abnormal
st ckpiles. according to the latter's report, the stcckpiles of materials
including Farm and marins products are ¥84,000, 000,000. This f1gure,
hereve, is the sun tetal of the smounts reported by the branches of the
Bank, so that the ectual total is estimated to exceed ¥luo,uoo, cco, oct.
It hac to be noted in this connectien that there are stsckpiles of
imported pocds. The st ckpiles of imported goods at the end of April
is ectinatet at $50, ,e (13,t,oc0,c00), including those accruing
fren the hiteins in impert programs or the time lag in actual imperts
(salt cake, seda sulphide, beracc, baric acid, dystuffs, wool, etc.).
There are these items, such as serap rubber, craft pulp, lead, stc.,which
de not sell in the donestie markat at the ¥360 rate, totalling $15,700,000
(Y4, 406, c0e, t0u). The increase in the export and import goods stockpiles
gives pressure en the kodan financing, cause increase in the leans, and
delays the fund accumulation in the Counterpart Fund special account.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.80)
31
(2) Increacs is uncellecter proreeds enl acccants payable.
The inerease in unerl lectad p veeds and accounts peyable
onothew side of the ptosure. soo sdg t  stey made by the
productten Bureae, Beonomt. stsbiliza iun rord, te anecllected precceds
f ecrentiel matcriels a .    (april ar o pme natertals)
w 6700000,or    w 5220.000.000 ab
ent of Deeeeber sast yer.   2.y e be roal moart. The
 1  19.50000(.7) 0) 400000
(3 ponhs) of w, o..o (3 o) f ric power, 3.co0
90f rnary stl, 5.0,000,00 of e0c wire, 1c.500,c00.000
f machinery ana 14, c0s 00 000 f arp cid mecorials. The rate of
ingresre of dnculldeted preceeds Ls rester chan tiar t stuckpiles.
thcrease in uncrllected preceed is especirlly recarkable recently in
main, machtmery, textiles mechinery, electric machinery, etc. The fact
thst urecllected preceeds of ceal and c ke have fncreased by 2t to 30%
in spite :f strong measuree for collecti'n taken by the Kedan shows that
the money shurtage hes become guneral and chronic.
The accounts payable are also increasing:¥7,70c, 000, 000 for cual,

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.92)
¥6,300,000,000 for electr1c power, ¥4,600,000,000 for iron an1 steel,
 5.7o.oo.oo for textiles, o. éou,co.o for the devernment rallway
and b for eort dr, servin as back rund cf the increase
in th transactron by means of ells to vhich we yfeered
previously.
As une llected proceeds and acccunts peyable ure nut balanced with cach
other by intustrier or by enterprises, they cannet be offset apainst
eoen :ther automatically even an we supply fund to a certsin seement. The
euntradiction of increase in unesllected prececds anl eccounts payable
is cumuletively ipereasinr in such essential inaustrles us coal and
electrie pover. The expansicn in the transactien by means cf Lills under
ruch cireunstances is net a souni phenomenon but re ther fcreshadcws credit
penic.
The fall in purchesing power is reflected in the fall of blackmarket price.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
 Fall in blackmarxet price
The shrinkage f purcu ing pever is reflected in the fall of blackmarket
price. The iniex  blackmarket price af production msterials which went up to 157
(1947 = 100) in May 1948 (bank of Japan, Tokyo) has continued to go up ti11
last February, reacning 165,/started to fall slightly thereafter by 2% every
month. It fell by 7% by June, reaching the level of a. : ago. As to con-
sumption goods, the blackmarket price index (Bank of Japan, Tokyo) which was
173 in sy 194t wont up to 191 in the food deficit month of July, went down
to 185 in the fall, went slowly up again till reaching 203 in April, and has
remained stagnant since then. Although the consumption goods have not shown
downward trend in blackmarket price, we have to take into account the fact
that the consumption goods prices are seasonaily low in the first half of
the year and that the changes in the consumption goods prices being grasped
at retail level generally lays as conpared with the wholesale price level.
The downward trend is revealed in the following table showing bi-annual
price movement.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
Jan-Jun
Jul-Dec
Jan-Jun
Jul-Dec
Jan-Jun
1947
1947
1948
1948
1949
Production materials
113 %
43
15
5
-7
Consumption goods
69
33
37
2
7
Of 25 essential production materials, the prices of some 40% thereof,
including those of chemical products, have reached their peaks during last
year, and almost all of the rest of the items by May this year. The prices
have continued to fall recently, and the fall of caustic soda and soda ash
is specially remarkable (7l% and 5l% fall respectively as compared with the
peak prices). Of 50 essential consumption gocds, the prices of more than
50% thereof have reacned their peaks during last year, and almost all of
the rest of items excludin  pessibly some perishable foods and sugar by
June this yean. Hutches, vacuun tube, fuels, meat, staple foods, textiles,
etc. have fallen in prices by around l0% by ay. It has to be noted in
this connection that the prices of staple foods which seasonally rises
toward the deficit season remain stagnant this year.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.97)
33
The fall in blackmarket pricee has narrowed the difference between offi-
cial and blackmarket prices. According to +ne study made ty the Bank of Japan,
the blackmarket price was about 30 times as muen as of ficial price immendia-
tely after the war, but the former is about 2.5 times as much as the latter
in June this year, the official price havin. besn raiand by f0 to 70 times
while the blackmarket prices havin risen by ? to B times since the inmedi-
ate post-war period. The distribution of the ratios of tlackmarket prices to
official prices in May last year and June this year of 25 essenvial production
materials and 50 consumption goods are shown in the following table.
Distribution of Ratiogs of Blackmarket Prices
to Official Prices.
Lees 1.0
Ratioes
than
(offi-
1.0
cial
1.1 1.6 2.1 3.1 Over Total Average
(Below price
4.1
offici- being 1.5 2.0 3.0 4.0
al pri- abol-
ce)
ished)

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.96)
Produc-
May'45
4
12
22
12
60
100
6.0
tion
Jun'49
4
- 32
20
20
12
12
100
2.6
materials
Consump- May 48
6
6
8
24
56
100
5.6
tion
Jun 49
6%
32 12
12
10
10
18
100
2.5
goods
As snown  the foregoing table, while the blackmarket prices of 28%
of the essential production materials were more than 3 times t
tho official
prices, those of 4% thereof were 1.5 times as much and there were no materi-
als whose blackmarket price was lower then the official prico in May last
ear, the ropective figures for me this year are 76%/and 4% (Copper and
1305
elactrie wire, ctc.). The same thing is true with constaption soods-the
prices of meat, esss, butter, vacuum tube and fuels are wither kelow or
oqual to officlal prices.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.93)
34
c. Enterprige managoment
Characteristic phenomena in preduction enterprises now are that
while cupital goods pr duction is euffering trem increasing at ckpiles
and uncollected proceele, consumption gacds prrauction is relatively stable
and suffering less from money sourtege. a to cupital sis prodection,
those which depend heavily n the Government-pail capital eaalpment, such
as rolling stsck and commanicrtian and taese which have depended en the
Reconstruction Finance Bank luan, such s e al mineu and olectric power
are suffering most severely. in beese peverely earfori brenches, those
reuod
of short preduction process, such as electric wire, have already started
to cut their production. As to cement which is used bith in capital
grods and consumption goods pruauetion, the ale fer the latter use is
more prosperous than that for the former. As to d tton proaucte and soda,
export goode are st ckpiling while domestic or consumption use sell well.
Such basic consumptión goods industries as paper, glass, oil and fats, eto.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
are rather presperous recently than suffering from money sh rtage or
difficulty in management.
Following ia a review of the state of affeirs of the brenenen which
depena heavily n the public fimnce, such as rolling stoek, vire-comunt-
cation, electrie wire anl construction.
(1) Industrics which depend heavily on public ftrance
The rollin stsck enterprises are mrd hit by tie slash in the
Government railway curstruction. The comparison of 1948 rlers and the
estimated rdors of 1949 af the 15 plants of 12 new body makers is shown
below.
Decrease in the Orcure for Relling Steok Makera
1948 (A)
1949(B)
B/A
B/Ax1.3
Government railway
¥8,800 million
(79%)
1,200(24%)
13
10
Frivato railway
1,300
(11%)
1,900(39%)
147
113
Export
1,100
(10%)
1,800(37%)
167
128
Total
11.200
(100%) 1.900(100%)
43
33
The projects carried over into 1949 on account of the lack of
appropriation is ineluded in 1948.
In terms of 1948 price, the 1949 price buing eutimated to be 30%
nigher than 1948 price.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.86)
2
沙
As seen epove,  le49 ors sce y 40 of tse af the proceding
year, or caly me taird in terae  tue sount  vork. moreover, as these
18 plants are all erodusive pll st ex plente, tney cannct be caverted
fr cther cucti Unless ey ro t polliny stoer is draaticstly in-
ereaeel, Jor o scale rotrsnchrent of tor inductry io inescapacle. There
are 36.00e worere dn ose 16 tante,  00.00 17 wockore enpaget 1n
patte pr ductlon i stea. Pua vsoructon rete in 1049 is 20 of the capacl-
ty. so tat the reduotlen of coste throug retionalization cun herdly be
heped for or ascount of the rudncilon in tuc operation ratc. Those plants
have lirtle iden what they will ivo rter this fall.
The epcratien of the wire-communication plants is chiefly predlcated
on tho conatruction sppropriation of tre Ministry of Tele-c mmunication.
In 1948 the Governrent deaind c natituted 92% of tae t tal demand, f which
84% was the: of the Mlniatry f Commanication (Ministry of Tele-communice-
tion). The comperison of the 1948 ent 1949 denends are given in the fol-
1mintablc.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.93)
Decrense in m for Wire-communicntlon
1948 demand
/A
Actual
In current
1949 demand
price ()
esticate
(5)
3:870
5100 (808)
ministry
Y.800 111on (83%)
Otner Governrent
demand
300
(9%)
390
330(9%)
85
Private dorsnd
230
(7%)
290
240(67)
8
xport
30
(1%)
40
200(5)
5C0
Lotal
6,30
(100%)
4,590
3.870(100)
84
The denana is estimited optimietically in the above table, but even
a) the it of operutisn will te Bas of the precening year. Tw, of the
major makery have already resuccd their enployees by 20% and 40 respec-
tively. It 1s to Le notel thar the entorprisers in this branen ere plann-
ing to cut down th ir groductlen custe by raising the per head production

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
36
so that the rate of the reduction in employees is greater than that in
production. Moreover, as these enterprisers heve a large number of sub-
contractors -- two major makers having 71 and 205 respectively -- nearly.
half of the latter will have to be driven.out of business.
The Government demand for the electric wire industry, such ss railway.
communicetion, etc., will be 58% of last yeer. The total demand for this
yeer is not more than 82% of last year even at the most optimistic estimate
that 40,000,000,000 of the Counterpart Fund will be appropriated for es-
sentlal industries and the export increased by 13 times. Moreuver, if we
take carry-over stockpiles into acoount, the production of this year will
not be more than 75% of last year.
Decrease in Demand for Electrid Wire (in tons of osppen) 

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
B/A
1948 demand
1949 demand
(A)
estimate (B)
Govornment damend
17.527 (30%)
10.100 (21%)
58
40,395 (70%)
32,900 (69%)
82
Private demand
Export
380 (0.5%)
5,000 (10%)
1.320
Total
58,302 (100%)
8.000(100%)
82
The operation rate in 1949 is only 50% of the capacity. The reduo-
tion in electric wire production affects profoundly on the production of
copper and aluminum, as will be stated below. Morewver, if the prices of
copper, ootton, etc. are raised as a result of the abolishment of the
subsidy, the price of alectric wire will immediately be raised, the oosta
of raw materials constituting 65% of the total costs of production, with
possible reduction in the demand.
Next we will neview the construction in relation to the public finenee.
Following is a comparivon of the Construction Sectiom, General Affairs
Bureau, Ministry of Construction.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
37
Construction Contracts
1948 (A)
1949 (B)
3/A B/AX13
Pablic works
(Contral and locel)
¥40,400 mi11ion (26%)
35,100(24%)
30
69
Occupetion Forecs
14,600
(10%)
9,500 ( 6%)
65
50
99,100
(64%) 106,500 (70%)
107
82
Private
Total
154,100
(100%) 152,100(100%)
99
76
The shrinkage of construction is considerable if the price rise is
taken Ints considcration, the total of public works and the Cccupation
Foroes constructlon being roughly twe thirds of last year.
The effect of the shrinkege in construction is serious with regard
to 250 000 me dum and smcll construction contractors, while the management

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
of large contractors is generally satisfactory. Here is an aapect of
concentration of enterprises. It is to be noted that in no small instener:
the looal g vernments commenced construction progects with the prospect of
coutinued apyropriations for public works but are at a loss at the reduc-
tion of the approprietions. The National Cinstruction Association has
reported that there are 14 prefectures as of June this year which reported
such instances and that the contractors have ¥1,670,000,000 accounts still
unpaid. he paychologocal effecte of such cases should not be overlosked.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.97)
38
(2) Basic industrios
We will turn to tho basic industries which have depended
on the financing-ef·the Reeonstructien Finance Bank.
As tc coal mining industry, the rationalization of manage-
ment has proceeded considerably since the end of last year. The
quality ef-coal has been improved from 3,725 caleries in the third
quarter 1048 to 5,807 calories in the fourth querter the produe-
wion per underground worker per month has increased from 1l tons
in the latter part of last year to 13.2 tons in June; and the ratio
of underground workers and surface workers has changed in favor o
the former. The deficit of coal mines has thus been decreasud and
coal mine managoment has boen stabilized. But it is to be noted
that- the isprovement- ie seen mainly-in largo mineo, and medium and
mall mined are-saffering from various difficulties.. Meanwhile,
recent drastio reduction of equipment fund caused stalemate in the
pregram, and the cessatioo of

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
severe blow to mine machines and materials mekers (ar 1o,5c0,9e0,000
uncollected proceeds of the mohinery industry at the ond of ay,
2,300,000,000 1e coal mino machinory.), althoggh it is true that
considerablo payment has beon pade se far as the five major mines
are concorned on account of the foint financing therete. The urgent
problem which the ccal mining industry is now facing, as monticnod
before, is large scalo increase in stockpiles due to the shrinkage
of purchasing power. Although the direct impect on coal. mines is
modorate for tho time boing due to the use of tho bills certified
Dy-tho Kedan,' the ccal mino operaticn will cortainly bccome un-
ound in futire unless the demand for coal is increased and the
financing for coal mine equipment will be disturbed

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.94)
?9
une of the prouloms f the slectric power industry lies in
the fact that the curront prwer charge does nct cover the meceseury
ecets. Because capitel charge including appropriute depreciation
is not included in the current power rge, the enterprises shrink
their cperation fer self-defense. They tund to suspend their ex-
pansion projects and peatpone nccessary ropair and meintenance of
war-torn facilities. Moreover, the costs of hydro-gonoration and
stoam generation are not balanced, it is profittatle for the gone.
erating plants not to serve steem-gonerated powor whon the power
supply is susponded, The unpaid amount of coal for power goneration
1s ¥4,800,000,000 (4.1 months) at the d of May.
Tho iron and steel industry is not suffering financially,
bt dt-is-rather-woll-eff because of, ln some part, speculation in
the prospect of the abolition of subsidiss And price rise. Accord-
ing to a study made by wholesalers, tho sale of 27 iron and steel
enterprisos r0se from ¥1,120,000,000 in January to 2,010,000,000 in
Ari-tut.remelmed.,960,000,000 in Maj. The uncollocted proceeds,

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.94)
howevor, are inereasing vory month -- ¥210,000,000, 240,000,000,
¥260,000,000, 300,000,000 an5 ¥350,020,000 respective1y in the First
five months cf this year. The indudtry manages to cperate in spito
of the accumulating ueellected prcce.ds by delaying its payments
fon imported ore, coal, equipment materiuls, etc., but it will face
mory shoetage ae the collectien ul coal chargos is forced. More
gentproblome watch the dren and atocl industry is facing are
that there will not be sufficient effective donand fer iren and
stecl if the subsidies which amount to as much as three quartors
of thae pruductien ccats iro abclished, that 40% of. the domand for
iren and steet is eccupied, siroctly or iudirectly by publie-fi-
nunce, that doprociation is insufficient, end that international

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.95)
一
40
competiticn is intensified on acceunt of the imprevement of demand
and supply relations.
Copper mincs alse depond on subsidies. The consumer price
of olectric copper without subsidy is vl81,0s0 per ton, for which
79,046 or 40% of the former, 1s pail as subail1es, macing ine con-
sumer price v102,O14. The bleckmarket price. however, hes gone
dewn to 90, 00o on account f che shrinkag of the olectric wire
Inlustry, ete. If the subaidies are abelishei now, most of the
copper miros will be unable to operate except pcssibly those which
are engaged in refinery. As tc stockpiles, they amcn cud to 17,500
tons at, tho ond of May, which is half as mucn as the production goal
for this year. The uncollccted prucoeds f the 7 main minos at
the end of April ancunted to 3,000,000,000. It is true. that the
domand has increased an account of the 10,ooo tons export recontly
dcciled, but tho long range prospect is by no means bright.
The aluninum industry is hard hit by the shrinkago of
domand fer uloctric wire, daily comnedities, etc. The proluction

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
has been on tho upward -- 1,622 tons in April, 2,087 tone in May
and 2, loć tons in Jume -- but the delivary is iwindling rapiily --
1, 294 tcns in Apri1, 966 tons in Muy and 1, 000 tons for June esti-
meto. Ths stcckpile at the refinery is increasing -- 1,455 tona
at the enl ef April and 3,676 tons at the und of Juno. As the
denand has shrinked, the unccllected roceods do net increaso but
tho st:ckpil is rapidly increasing. The industry will be in cri-
tical situation unless tho current ox ort nogctiatiens be nct cen-
cludod succcssiully.
The dyostuffs industry is suffering no less frcr the
incroase in stcckpile. The production for the months of March,
April and May is 705 tons, 721 tons and 632 tens respoctivoly,

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
41
but the delivery is much smaller and the stock at the ond of May is
1,584 tons a8 compared with 799 tons and 1,004 tons at tne end of
January and March respectively. Unless the export of textiles in-
creases, the dyestuffs industry will soon have to reduce its pro-
duction.
The eoda industry is suffering no less as shown in the
following tatle on account of the slump in the export and capital
goods production industrius, such as chemical fibre, aluminum, etc.
Increaso in Stock in Soda Industry
(¥1.000.000)
March
April
May
Caustic soda
376
409
486
Soda ash
27
77
100
We will turn to the automobile and shipbuilding indus-
tries. Tho automobile industry is no exception to the recent trend
of inereasing ateckpiles and unccllected procceds. The accounts
payaclo er, increasing and sub-contracting entorprisos are hit .
thereby. The ffects of this industry aro extensive The reason

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
for .poer sale is attributed to the discrepancy between the elloca-
tion and purchasing power, failure to sell through down paymenta,
etc., but more fundamentally to the instability of the industry
itself in the transitional period of the national economy.
As to the shipbuilding industry, while small number of
builders engagod in the building at foreign contracts are relative-
ly stabilized, the domestic ship builders are extremely unstable
reluotant
on acccunt of the engative attitudo of the operators due to dis-
edvantage in the competition against land transportaticn in
freight charges and loading and unloading squipments and to disad-
vantage coming from high interests rate. The shipbuilders havo

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.93)
42
rhip brilding
managed up to the fourth oroors utillz ing their war-vine stook of ma-
tarials, out their uróck bas almost been cxhausted and modium and amall
builders are sufforing severely. rncollected proceede are eccusulat
ing in fishing vessels snm rspairing. he have adventago in intorna-
tional canpetiticn in low :ratghi crarges and superior tedhnique,
but the ccean ronte will not widely te opened for us in the near fature
and wo lave to take the risk ef one-uay freight and guf for from die-
advaptege of high inperests rate. The dollar price of export vosses
the pruce of Jaranuse vesels is atrnt
(70% of European vesscls and 50 of Aoricen vonsels) may be some-
what improved, but it is d omed toi ly diffioul: to uxpors prefit.
tably at the v3oo rate. the shappluilding industry ha pong beon
protected by the Govornment, and it is doeirable that the indnstry
be rutionulized, if possible, until such protection be no longer
necossary. But the protection of the snippbuilding industry is
world-wide, and the rationalization of the induatry alone dooam

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
cut dewn the costs ef ilding because subitantial part of the pre-
duction ocsts of arips is occupied y the costs of matoriale and
equipments purchased from other industries. So the preblen of the
shipbuilding industry is closely related tc the rationalization of
tho entiro sccnomy of Japan.
(3) Export industry, etc.
The stcckpilo of silk is inereasing on acccunt of the slump
of the Amorican warket. The stockpile can be disselved cnly through
the release to the domastie mariet, but we cennet rost too much hope
therewitn beceuse of the shr tnkage of prrchasing power. The noler-
nizatier and vavicralirasien is plannod and the prico of cocoon re-
duced to cope with the situation after tho esteblishment of the
360 rato, but tho fund supply puts rectrictien against such offorts.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
43
The steckpile of chemical fipre is olsc increacing on
sccount of the slump of the Indian market. It will not uc easily
be dissolvel in the domestic market on account of th: compotire
supply of cotton and silk fabries.
The cetton spinning is relatively well off because
tanks lend money even efter the inerease of working capital demane
efter the release of raw cetton and there is considereble denand
in the domestic market. The prospect, however, is not, necessarily
bright because the allocation system end financial policy arc not
quite coordinated and the pound area is imposing import restric-

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.96)
tion
-As to consumption goods industries, the cil, and fats
industry is well off in spite of the fect that it is operating
only at 10% of its capacity and the glass industry hes largo
demand in spite of the season being of falling demand. The con-
sumption gucds industries are generally secure ao tar. The paper
industry, however, is beginning to feel the impact of woney
shortage, and the miscellaneous goods industry which depends on
medium and snall enterprisers are suffering as stated before
fren the tecline in purchosing power.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.91)
14
d. Future preblems
(1) Problema of sumadies snd price stroature
202.2 tilllen . vas epprepriated as peice juatrnt
autefdles for PY 1940,  imrt 20% of the 704.7 clllon yon
excondltures in the goorul ecout. The broskdom of he subsidlce
is se follors:
Subsidles for stabilization band materials
115.2
(Those to he poid in the current yoar)
100.2)
Import suteidies
87.3
Price sdjustmert sunsidies fer salt
3.7
Tho grant of trese subsidies has maintainod the price
of stabilization band materiale consideratly below the goneral price
lovel which is about 200 times as muen as the pre-war lavel. Such
basic pricss as railvay freight rsto, pewer rute, atc. navs also
been rold in sreck at ths 57 times and 46 times respectively as
thoss ir che pre-war levels y reducing noruel depreclatien costs

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.94)
ne ciher cape sl coats. These price levels are hald low is com-
pare vi internationci level. The stabilization band materials
whalesale, N. Y. I
prices corpars wach the prices in U.s.k es foliows:
Ratic f the pice of stablization band
toricl in Japan te ite prioe in
U.S.A(100 for U.S.A,)
Conl (fcr apecified industries)
40
Fig iren (for ensting)
34
Stuol (bar stoel 19 mm)
36
Coppor
64
Ammonium sulphate
61
Soda ash
100
Caustic seda (solid)
86
Pewer rate
44
8

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.97)
45
It is true that the above-mentioned price structure has contributed
to holding price incrrase in check and to attaining production goal.
Hut it has, asido from beceming & heavy financial burden, estranged
itself from the intornatioral price level, obscured the normal pay-
ing Lusls, hindered offorts for lue rationalization of enterprises
and distorted the rational oconomy. Fer axample, unbalance betwoen
the railway cnd marine transportation changes has unduly favored
land transportation in spite of the fact that marine transporlation
is moro oconcmical in fuels and materials consumption; and low levol
of power charge caused deficit in thormal power generatine cuter-
prosos, and olectric power is uscd in place of cherecul ond fire-
woed. Thus, if it is nocossary to stress the importance of oparat-
ing Lhe enterprise on its cwn rusponsibility and on paying busis,
it is ail the mur: nocessary to eliminate athormal elenents of tho
official price structure which are cutside of cnterpriso managemont.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.92)
it is algo desirable to res se gubsidies as soon as possible
with a view  n rmalizing the prioe structure and particularly to
lespenirs the heavy financial burdon. In this case, how ver, it
is nocessary rt nly  cak up  matcer frum tho financial po-
int  view but als bo onsider its ulfocus upe. the vor-all in-
dustrial structure and rkets in t li s uf the recont defla-
tiexury londoncy and the fundamental woaknons of Japen's industry.
inuemuch as the rati: of subsilius fur stabilizntion bund matori-
als enn imported cuterials to the pruductiun cuats of these ma-
torfals is as much as 40 to 70% us tated before, the tutal abe-
lition i the subsidies sill tring &  ut 1.5 to times, and In
extremo cases, atout 4 vimes price inerense ecn if its repercus-
sien is disregarded. sut a the stage wiher the discrepanoy be-
tweer the official and blackmarke: prices is very

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.84)
if
small, ae stated befcre, wice inerease vill s pold in creck y tho
lecrcaço in porehnsire ponr regardloce of  petual productien cests.
As a pesult, the abelltien of subaidios will set slwave be scsompented
iy the corrosesding i creaes s price, but will nccesaitate a very
dractle rasicralization ef sntorprisos.
is pretlem rae alrecay arevored an connostier with
the propesel stclltlre  subeblres for sepper. It is sada rrat only
E of the tetee se spe siree in Japen wall be able to setiave spe
ration or the paying basis ufter the ronoval cf subaidies and cfficial
pries. rhe same preblom is incclved, thovt in different degree, in
the sbolitien ef subsidies fes iren and stesl, seds and ctrer basic
industriee.. Wath  egart to imported raw materiale such as inn ere,
ceal, salt and tauxite, in particular, thear price at factery in
Jayan is 3 to 3 times se wuen as shat in the v.S. dus to high marine
trar sp mtatipn char es and ctner impert charges. This fact will put
a limit to the alignuent of the domestic und international prices
ftcir end relucte.

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.80)
(2) Pr plems concerniny Kedans
The Ronens have playei tneir I is in tho eljustmont of
phe or n cy u natertals, price  ing, te wder tho
r etw courmic oritirns ut he rot cbare io e.
waie concitione re rivir: pies to/ asic rebloxs cuncerning tocir
some
ouurate m. Phat io to say, the ragis inepepse in stocke in the hands
 ue y are ana an toir reeci m' lo accoonte, suspenelen c loans
ay the .F.. whteh hae been the pain rmd suplier to the sdene,
ote. heve ree lted in an seute anortage of the Koaee fumls. For
Instasce, che rccciva le pcccunts of the e al selle Puels istrie
butten Kette. have recently increased fru 12.4 ballion yor as f the
end of Septemter, 194s, 16.s billien von ao uf the ond of Decouber,

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.91)
47
to 20.7 billlon yon es 1 the end uf last Nay.
With reguri to the Minerul ani Monufacturer Preducts
Pereign mrale keaan and Fextlle Fercign Frace Fodan, the recoivable
acct unts and stccke is band mave noreased renarkatiy as stabed be-
fore, cne to the tight mone, sit biun and decreaso in somcstic
p rcharire power while rme exp ro steeks have piled u un cocuunt
of inative oxpcrt.
Under such cirounstances, the Podans, particulurly
Foreign Treuo Kedans and Solid Fuels Distributien Kodan, navo Jif-
ficulties in fund cperatien. The latter Kodan has pestpeaod Its
each lo-day settlemont of paymonts and managyd to got sot tled at
tho end of the month. Tho Foreign rade Kedans rave barely btained
necossary funde througa tho increaerl rerrcwings frim the Trede Funds
Acccunt. Cengequently, tho borrewings of the Trale Fund Accot frem
the ank f Japan las increage to 15 tillion yen, cuntrary'to the
repay unt spoint ing to 25 billicn yen expeeted in the pudget of the
current yoar.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.92)
under the resent circumstarces wher the genoral pure
chasine power nas shr nk the funetion of the Keians has changed fron
thut f jytrent cr ais quiliurium botwecn domand a sup ly to
eqiliheating
that of terpererily creating domand threugh tho release of the  vorne
ment purehasing power and saving tho werking funds cf privane onter-
prices. If the Kelans are reorsanized or abolished merely in viow
of tho improved lemand and supply relations under the circuustances
when shere are no large acale commereial crganizeuln which exieton
in the pre-war daye an entorprises aro on miner sgale, the lerla-
tionary trond will he intensified becauso unterprises will be wore
In shert f money and bo ryre unstatlo being affected Hreetly y
changing comand und surply relatiuns.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
48
Acccrdingly, granting thet tho Kodan systom be abolished eventually,
the tining and measures t be taken after abolitien will necd be
givon very careful censideration.
(3) Prcblen cencerning distribution system and price control
With rogard to tho distribution ayatem and price control
which have been the twe rain sackbones ef oconomic cantrel, the alle-
cation pas coms to to distonrected with the distribation of effective
demand- on the one hand, and baackrurket prices have cone to be cfton
Icwer than official prices on the other It has come to to urged,
.therefore, that contrel shouli be relazod to à largo extent.
The main reasons for the present improvemont in denand-
supply roletions are, however, rapid decrease in offectivo demand
particularly for preduction uterials lue ts such measures as the sus-
pension er R.F.B. financing-and redusticn of the Governuent-paid equip-
ment funds aimed at reorganization of tho econamy on the one hand and.

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.96)
tho unexpected slymy in export trade on the sther. If, thorefere,
such state f affairs is improved with the operaticn of Countorpart.
Fund and impr vonent of oversea markets, it is pessible that the de-
mand-supply relation of baric materials will again become unbalanced
to some extent. With regard to indigencus products for domestic con-
sumpticn, it is needless to say that they shculd be dec trollod as
cordoning
power therefer, thereby rostruining the prosent deflationary tondency.
With regard to important basic materials and imported materials,
however, wo should wait lefere going ahead with doscontrellin. thon
to sec the development of the cconomy inetead of being led. merely

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.95)
49
by what is happening at the prusent moment.
Unuer the elrcumstances in which there are many preblem:
to be solved in connectian with enterprise maraper nt as statel aiv
comacarably
and purchasing power has decreased aunermally due to the prosen? tiht-
money situation, it is feered thet the adjustment of economy merely
rrofitafitaty
result in the vicious circle of economic hrinkage bringing about
further economic shrinkage. From the long-range viewpoint of ecen mic
self-suppert, Jepan's economy should net be ef such small scale as
to consume not more than three million tons of ccal or hundred and
fifty thousand tons of steel per month. It is absolutely necewsary,
therefore, to take such finencial measures as to positively create
affective jemand for basic rateriels.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.95)
4. Social impact cf derlation
The deflationary tendeney has just begun to show its sign on the
national livelihood. Real wages began to fsll in end after April and
living standard in citles fairly declined in June. Tnrough the mountlng
difficulties of medium and small enterprises, particulary in machinery
inlustry, rationalization of industries, administrasive retrenchment, ecc.,
the number of the unemployed is tncreasins and there te a denper et cocial
unrest being brewed up. In case the above tendency is left unattended, the
deflationary tendeney in industries stated in 3 above will inevitsbly make
iteelf felt in national livelihood through the inererse in unymployment,
decrease in real wages, bankruptcy of medium end smail ent rpris s, uper
econg
zation of farm village,  etc. There is a pessibilicy that ratienalisctien
of enterpriaes is effected at the sscrifice of national livelihood. In
view of the fact that the present living standard is extrenely low, the
most serfous problem involved in deflation must be said to lie in the
stove possibility. Let us nor review the social impaet of deflation as
anneered in statistical figures.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
a. Increase of th unemployed.
According to the investigation of employment made by the Ministry
of Labor, te employment which nad kept on increasing until the end of
last year, began declining after January this year and registered a decrease
of 0.25% in February, C.29 % in March respectively. Employment in April
increased by 0.59% owing to the recruitment of new graduates but it
declined by O.7% in May. The decline is perticularly noticcable in such
ones ns medium and small coal mines, lignite mines, non-ferrous mines and
in such manufacturing industrfes as machinery and appliances, lumbering
and woed werk, as well as in sundry industry. The investig:tion of
enterprise aljustment made by the Ministry of Labor clearly shows hew
the cases of enterprice adjustment or-closure increased and how in con-
liguidation
equence thereof the unempleyod increased.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.90)
umant ant an mpleymnt are wost suricus in mschinery
tndustry ana in dun n  ises.
Enterprise adjustmest
otal
June
Feb
Har.
13ta1
2187,480
i3
A
25
276
A
30,641
2,318
B
93,96
Mnin
143
19
34
1,394
44
2,100
131
5,7
Constrictitn
213
3.3
13
1573
20
151
30
1,699
100
5,635
Manufachurina
167
5,903
29
,517
31
11,034
562
8.26
533
25,591
1,877
74,:
Metsls
25
509
25
,773
1,470
1,468
66
4,636
207
9,57
Machiner!
éa
3.636
3,d05
5,010
166: 13,565 213
11,377
658
37,
Chemicals
29
€89
3€
543
701
3,800
49
3:540
291
10,3
textiles
17
230
21
715
125
in
910
54
1,099
143
3.9
umbering
21
348
67
955
13
1855
84
1,540
361
5,
others
21
441
34
94€
1.72
58
1,294
58
3,391
222
7,45
Dther industries
577
26
32
1,852
56.
1522
3.551
210
8.1

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.91)
Note: (1) A deneter cases ef enverprise adjustment ant
B dets mnt r f he discharged.
(2) The abeve figures represent the result ef investigation made by
the natien-wide Public Empleyment Scabilizatton ofricus ir cases
where nore then 20 empleyeer were discharged as a re ult of enter-
prise adjuctuent or clostre. Therefore, sheuld the cases where
less than 20 employees were dir charged and the cases which were
not reported. te inclulea, the figures would be much greater.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.95)
52
The increasing tund-ney of the unemplayed is ci an ly sh wn in the
statisties of laber exchanpec. According to tr- invesvisatin made by
Tokyooto en regular enpleytes, sinet May last year whan suy ply of Taber
exceeded the demand, the gep between the twe widene i menth by monte andd
the former reached more than three times the latter.
Lator Exclaney (investigated by the Takyeate eff eo)
Demand of
Supply of
574
labor (A)
Laber (B)
1948. Oct.
31,047
35,377
113.9
Nov.
22,837
35,84
156.8
Dec.
23,290
26,817
115.1
1949. Jan.
30,953
40,645
11.
Feb.
26,053
48,500
186.2
Mer.
28.905
62.721
217.9
The unemployment insurance statistics shews that the caseof fresh
unemployaent in May this year were 5.7 times those in May last year nd
the cases of unemployment insurance payment increased to 19.2 fold: In
view of the fact that the subscribers to the unemployment insurance were
extremely few previously, the above figures wili have te be sufficiently

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.97)
discounted but they will serve to show that the unemployed have been
increasing. Laber disputes, which were relatively few in January and
February this year, have rapidly increased in and after liarch this ycer.
of the causes of disputes, oppesitien to discharge cccupies more than
40%。
The unemployment has a tendency to increase still further. Through
the administrative retrenchment startel in the State Railway, repatrlstion
eme rgence of patent unemployment in distributive trades in consequence
of the stoppage of inflstion, enterprise adjustment, etc. a surstantial
increase of the unemployed is expected to happen in the course of thi:
yesr.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.91)
3
Furttcrerre we must bear an mind the foilcwing cherecterirtiee f
usempleet proben in this onry. pirtay wang to the bkveertner.
of cur peelsl structure, unomy leyment in ite true sense af the tern doe
net appear as such. In cities and villsyer slike uhare are many  mple
who shouid appear es er urephcymenc, but in fact a nut, by parely
keeping tieir lives on s meeger ine me supplementeo by vide jubs. u
unemploymant in this country unlike that in Europear ani Americen
countrier dees not eppear in statisties ner sppear in such fein as
cen be cetionally deelt vith es e part f eccnomie problen. It takes
rether the shape of sccial peverty then that of unemployment.
The secont cheracteristic of cur unemployment is that it is directly
connected with social problems. In view of the fact that even the

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
employed ere barely keeping their minimus .
exices only en insufficient social security systen, unemy loyment spelle
an iinial of the means :f the ir cubsistence.
b. Stuprare of wage rise.
5
Th: movements of recent nominal and real wages as arpeared in
the averace wages of nati nel inlustrial workere of the Menthly Laber
Statistics of tne Ministry f Laner are as fellows.
Novenentr of nominal and real wages.
1948
Jan.
149
Fet.
Mer.
Afr.
Lay
average
Average iniustrial
4,987 yen
8,186
8,030
8,225
8,329
8,059
wa205
Iniex f above (A) 274
450
441
452
458
443
Consumers effective
price iniex (5)
193
249
244
245
356
258
Heal ware index
(1/B)
139
180
181
184
178
172
Notes (1) (4)' denotes an index ef average industrisi weges after tax.
(2)
Indices are based an average in 1947:100

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.91)
 Unlike variaus indices whes rcine toepe s d d wn after the mide
ef laet year, n minal wages kep: n rogular riring temp
than 10% per wonth, but efter the cnd f dast year they beaoan sirwior doun
anl the levai in May was below thst f Januery. Resl wates Y  fr m
115 in lay 1et year (everag in 1947:100) 0 176 in Oatebes t hava
sinee beer almost stagnant, 1.0., 164 in harch, 173 in april and 172 in
liay. (see : raph. 5)
 Unlike the sverage nominal wace which d.vs net snew wi is riuetuatin,
its breakdown ty industries shews varicus fluctuatione roflectins the
activities of varicus industries. In contrast t. such heavy inlustrie
Be metals, muchinery, chemicals, te. which renained stalcmate er showed
dowturn in Jaruary-May peried, ceramics and seme other indur srles showed
up-curve. Non-ranufacturing injustries alsc remained cenerally stalenats
tut electricity and banking showed some up-curve. Since the beginnine
of this year delayed rayment ef wages has become n ticeable acccrdin.
to the statistier of Labor Ministry with l678 cases as of the end of
April. Its breakdoan by industries shows that machinery industry cccupies
40% with 659 cafer and that by sizes of enterprises sicws that there are

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.96)
man/ sucn cases in locel rmall enterprires. Acccrding to the investigation
nave an 87 farteries by tha Restonal Economic Stabilization Bureau at
Furucka, the  rcentage of facteries whose ware páyments were layed
increased rap1uly frem 16% at the end of January to 34% at the and of
Februery and 44% at the end of March.
c. Difficulties cf medium and small industrier
Mudium and small nterprisers whe cccupy a substantial portion
of city-uwellers constitute ne of the segments which are hardest hit
by the recent deflationary tandency. The medium and small enteryrisers
engeged in pr ducing sundry goeds, pettery, etc. for expert cule barely
manage to , et lonp, thanks to fairly cheap yen price ratios. Fut
with the abolitien of the concealed export subsidy throuch the establishment
of the 360 yen single exchange rate and with the decline in overseas

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.95)
55
purehasing power they are being couselled t effect drastic rati malizetion.
The medium and small enterprisers engaged in the production of sundry daily
necessaries could larely keer their hends atrve the water by largely de-
pending upon blackmarket, but with the recent deeline in effective demand
for these g ois and with the shrinkage of tleckmarket, they have come to
be confrenteu with a sericus crisis. The stuve wave is extending to medidm
and small traders who are steadily lusing their market throught the advance-
rent of bie commercial capital re resentel by department steres, etc.
The medius and small sutmanufacturere whose facteries are said to
occupy about 40% of the total mediur and snall factories-- they are particular
suffernin
numerous in machinery and instrument segaent-- are pantang t ther sense.
Big enterprisers whe are feeling the pinch of tight money shift the pinch
to submanufacturers thrcugh accuwulating' the account payatle to the lotter.
Nevertheless the submanufacturers, being conscious of the difficulty of
maintaining independent enterprises under the present econcuic conditions,
dare not cut their'ties with the tig enterprisers, tut rather strive

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.95)
for strengthening then, thus becoming more and wore subservient to the latter.
2mll
The atove-mentioned pinch will further be transferred to patty enterpriser
and their employees whe are subservient to medium and small enterprisers.
Wages of emyl yeed in mediun and small enterprises are gradually declining.
Accoruine t an investigation made by the Osake chamber of merce and
Industry, they were a little ateve the level of wages in lar enterorises
in 1947 but declined t 91% in th- first half, 85% in the latter half of
1948 and to 77 in the average in January-April thi: year. The delays in
wag= payment typify the recent difficulties of medium and small enterprises.
Mediun an! small enterprises have only limited credit recuiving capacity.
reguesits that chis
The Toky, Cummercial and Industrial Guidance Office received li80 epi1ie-tiery
office sronsor the claims for loams from the bantas
frem thom for exereisinp sodi cfriecs in behalf of their terrowing in t ta?
of 64l milli'n yen between Decewber last year and kay this year, f khich,
hewever, 'only 6.1% in amcunt or 5.6% in cases of application succeeded in
getting loans. With the Jeclininy amcunt of sales and the meunting difficult
In collection of sales preceeds which are more vital in them than in larce
enterprises, and with the heavy burden ef taxation, the aajustment and

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
56
bankruptey of then are bound to increase. In the enterprise adjustment
investigetier of the Ministry of Labor referre! to abuove, the cases of
sdjustment and bankruptey in factories employing mcre than 20 and less
than 200 werkers cccupy 84.4% of the total. (In case fact rils emplcying
Less than 20 workers are included the percentege will he still higher)
wedium and small enterprises are in some sense an epitome cf Japan's
eccnomy. The fate of them, in combination with unemployment problem,
constitutes a big future problem.
d. stagnation of urban living standard.
The recent movements of'nominal and'real household expenditures
are as follows.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
1948
Jan. 1949 Feb.
Mar...
Apr. May
J
average
Lonthly household
yen
8,780
10,633
10,090 11,774 11,583 11,939 11,0
expense
Index of above
(A)
187
227
215
251
243
254
2.
Consumer's effective
price index (B)
193
249
244
245
258
258
2
Real living expense
1ndex (A/B)
92
91
88
102
97
99
The monthly household expenditure inereased in 6 months by about 33%
from 7, 801 yen in May to 10,398 yen in November last year lut in the fc1lo
6 months, 1t increased by 15% with 11,939 yen in May this year. In the
recent 2 cr 3 lonths it has been hovering around the level of 11,000 yen.
It has increased by 42% between May last year and June this year. On the
cther hand as prices have gone up by 55% in this peried, the real living
expense or purehased quantity can he said to have declined.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
57
However, the breakdown of purchased ayantities by itens will show
sizable differences between items. The movements of purchased guantity
as derived through deviding the expenditure indices of items by price
indices of them are as follows.
Movement of purchased quantity by items
(average 1947:100)
1948
Jan. 1949 Feb.
Mar.
Apr. May
June
average
Food
102
98
99
113
106
106
96
Clothing
107
71
65
91
91
97
93
Lighting & heating
83
98
103
109
82
91
62
Housing
106
102
87
100
105
135
108
76
74
61
71
21
71
6.
Miscellaneous
The purchased quantity of fccd hes somewhat increased
through the increase in non-staples and the consumption of licht and heet t
shown a slightly rising tendenoy, although seasonal allowance must be
made therefor. Except for these top priority necessaries, clothing and
accessories showed downturn and miscellaneous.goods including services have
dronned to.6

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.97)
a
It may be inferred from agove tnat the recent living conditions of urhan
population, apart from the improved quality of goods, show a deteriorating
sign in the composition of purchased goods. This is attributable to the
fact that the rise in real wages of worhers, vhioh had continued pretty
steadily until the beginning of this year, was not directly translated
Into the improvement of their living standard trough the fact that they
can not depend so much upon side incomes as before and that the average
2
real earaings of city-dwellers -- which include medium and small enter-
prisers, their employees, small merchants, public servants, in addition
to the ompioyees in such Jarge enterprises as are covered by the wage
stetisticshave not increased in any large measure. It may be regarded
on the other hand as a reaction of household budget to the unbelanced
movements of prices. The movements of cffective prices of various items
show thet whereas miscelianeous expenditure increased to 4.2 times other
oxpenditures increased to 2.2-2.7 times that of the average in 1949 re

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.92)
spectively. Miscelianeous expenditure is based on official pricos or
similar charges (agrecd prices) of transportation, post, admission to
film houses, etc., subscrirtien to newapupers and mugazines, goods in-
cluded in daily neoesscries and-of sertices which were raised substential-
ly last year. Although the prices of generel commodities heve bcen ef-
fected in an inureesing degret by the buyer's market sinoe the middle of
last yeer, the :rices of these miscellaneous goode and services showed
little response to the shove trend with the result that thus purchased
quantities had-te be cut révenue of railways from passenger transpprta-
tion decreased, inventories of duily consumpti on goods increased and .
thoir production declined.
uneguat
In short, there are fairly unbiluneed movements in prices of com-
modities, but in some items of which purchased quantities move in op-
posite dirsction to prices, exronditures by items which are the product
一
8

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
59
of prices and quantities are in most cases (lighting and heating ex-
penses are excluded for seasonal reason; around 2.4 - 3 times t.ose
in 1947 and do not ahow such great untalance as in pricos.
Accordingly the percentago of food expense in household expenditure
(Engel index) hardly changes with the average figure of 63.4% in Merch-
Max this year as against 63.8% in the corresppnding period of last year.
e. Deterioration of farm village economy
In consequence of the slash in expenditure fir public works
related with agriculture, suspension of financlng for agricultural re-
habilitation, stc., the direct effects of the current budget are sp-
pearing as a shortage of long torm fund, but the indirect effects of
deflati onary factors fre not yet so strongly falt in agriculture.
Nevertheless previous boom in farm economy disappesred end signs of
pauperisation ere eppeering.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.95)
Surplus in farm sc nomy (surplus. dorived by subtracting gross
expenditure from gross income) which serves as index of capital ac-
cumulating capucity of farmere is as follows and shows the contrast
betweon the wholesale pauperimation of farmers tilling less than
1 che=2.47 acres and the capital accumulating capacity of farmers
tilling 1-2 chc.
Surplus in ferm economy
(Unit: yen)
Belew 0.5cho
0.5-1cho
1.5-2cho
Avcrage(1.4cho)
1,492
Dec. 1947
(一)
2,784
Jan. 1948
(一)
2,155
Feb.
(一)
5,393
Mar.
Apr.
(-)
1,253
(-) 2,006
(-1
3,002 (-)
3,112
(-)
(-) 1.613
(-1
4,572 (-)
≈,901
May
885

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
60
Jun.
(一)
251
(一)
872
(一)
4,033
(-)
2,038
Jul.
(-)
42
(-)
873
132
(-)
691
Aug.
(-)
611
(一)
345
(-)
125
(-)
1,474
Nov.
508
(-)
354
2,251
1,662
Dec.
(-)
731
209
18,688
14,437
Nov.
(一)
1,001
972
18,040
6,391
Total
1-)4.382
27.379
3.960
Source: Investigatien by the Ministry of Agriculture According to
an investigetion made by the Cuntral Bank of Agriculture and Forest into.
discount f agricultural: billa, dicount balance at the end of September
last year was 2,400 billion yen but it increased to 12,000 million yen
et the end of June this year. Inasmuch as the start of this fingncing
was delayed last year the cbove comparison is not quite appropriate
but serves to indicate the shortage of farmer's fund. The fact that
while the utilization of the system in last year was limited to singlè
crop i stricte in Hokkaido, Tonoku and Hokuriku, it expanded to other
districts in this vear, indicates the general dateniarating tondenoy of

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
farm economy.
Now let us xamine the pressure which the farm economy is regelv-
ing through the increese of population. Papulation in farm villages
rapldly increased toward the end of war absorbing refugers from cities
but it began flowing vack to cities in and efter 1947. The propertion
of pural population vis-a vis urben population in 1948 was higher than
that in 1940. Since the heginning of this year the unemployed in ci-
ties began to blow back into farm villages. Although no accurate
figures are yet available, Biere is no doubt that farm villages are
feeling strong pressure of over population.
The scale of agricultural managoment wes-getting Bmaller year
after year and in l947 farmers tilling less then 0.5 oho constituted
as much as 41%/the total. With the decimetion of agricultural ma-
of
nagement and the increase in farm population farper'e desire for

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
61
side jobs snoull naturally increase, but the percentage of farmere
having sido jobs declined from the peax of 55.1% in 194 to * %
in l947. The above fact was brought thout by the decrenso in side
jobs rosulting from the chonge in postwar industrial strusture and
shows the pauperigation, not the impeovemont, of farmerst sconemy.
As a cause of such detoricration of farm oconomy, widening
gap betweon tho prices of farm products and those of farm rey ire-
ments must firat of all bo pointed out.
Averago
Amionium
Fcrm 1B-
Averagc of Avoragu
of
sulfate
plements
da1l7 nec-
of
cssariss
textile
staplos
100
100
100
100
1948 average 100
1949 Jan.
1.03
108
128
123
108
107
Feb.
106
104
140
125
108
1.08
109
134
128
Mar.
A'pr.
309
308
134
131
109
106
112
128
137
107
May
136
105
104
Juna

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.96)
The above table shcws that a downturn has started ir tne
black market price iddices (averae: in 1948 : 100) sinco May
this year, Generally spoaking indices of staplo food ure at lower
level than those of farm implements und daily necessaries and tho
widening gap botweun shom is suill continuing.
Furthermoro the quantity of staple feod blackmarketod by
farmors io supposod to have declined. Tor examplo, C.P.S.
(Tokyo) indictes trat tho percentage of calckmarket purchaso
of staple food in the total exponditure for staple food de-
clined from 69%, in August 56% 1n December last year, to 39% in
May this yoar. In the blackmerket ecenomy farmers are now

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
62
placed in a doubly disadvantagoous position.
Othor majer fector which is adding presmareto farm economy 1s
the burden of taxes and ratee. Wheroas tho proportion of farm in-
come in the total naticnal income has been shoinking yoar by yoar,
the proportion of agricultural tax burden in the tatal dircct
State tax burden has boen inflcting. The relative weight of tax
payment, which has been incrousing, can te seen from tho following
table.
Porcentages of ccmposing items of farmer's expenditure
Farm Manege- Ncn-farm
Taxes
Living
Total
ment expense
expense
expenso
1944
29.7%
3:0
5.1
62.2
100.0
1946
21.3
3.7
75.0
100.0
1947
18.9
0.6
6.2
74.3
100.0
15.4

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.95)
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
It 1s cloar from above that taxes and rates increased at tho
sacrifico of productive and living expenditures thoreby reducing
the production scale and loworing tho living standard. Acccrding
to tho "Investigation into ational Nutrition" by the Ministry of
Welfare, tho calorie in-take per capita per day in cibies has'been
incrcasing frem 1,721 calories in 1946, 1,857 calories in 1947 to
1,925 calcrics in 1948, whilo that in farm willages was 2,084 ca-
lories in 1946, 2,142 calcries in 1947 and 2,111 ca1cries in 1948,
Thus the gap of calorie in-take botweon cities and farm villagos
91
gradually gotting narrewer.
Tho socond factor which, in ccmbination with the docrcase
in the relative weight of productive expense in the total farm
expendituro, is woakoning the productive base of farm villagos

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
63
is the shortago of iong-torm agrioultural fund. In tho total public
works exponditure the weight of agriculturo has becn ducrcasin: from
38.6% in 1945, 35.1% 1n 1947, 23.6% 1n 1948 t0 19.8% in 1949.
In consequence tho dovastetion or farm dand and relcted public feci-
lities is a atter of sericus apprehension whichiis substantiated
by the-fact that in recent yoare tho devastatod acreago of farmlend
invariably exceeds tho rehabilitatod acreage.
The amount of financing whioh is noeded in this your for agri-
oultural public werks and onterprioes having the nature of publio
works is partly duo to the roduction of public works oxponditure,
expectod to be roughly 18,000 mill1cn yen. Bos1des, about 4,000
million yen is required for the financing of ordinary undortakings.
Under the presont conditions it/regarded extromely difficult tc
187
meet those fund requirements. In vlow of the fact that the short-
age of agricultural long torm fund undermines the basis of atri-
oultural production-and that its adverse offects do not appear
immediately, we ahall have to pay serious attention tc thisrquestion.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.87)
6.
5. Conciurion
Judging frem th above deceriptien, st wils oo soee teat the recent
deflatlonary trend, when left arattemaed, will pesslbly , beyund ho
healthy stage of jum ddu  
As ls staced in the presee toe poo papese esooy  lost
a considerehle measuru: 
      .
For example the vesl incone uf wege and svlery eernine  sses is belr
the prewar level end ever the emploved cen rarely maintain the sinimum
living standard. Hourehcld expenditure  city awc llers insicates that
the rercentage of foni in it (Engel Indey) roge fron 35% in prevar to over
600 at present. Farm villages are non upperting more then 120% of prewar
population with less thar 90f of prewar production. In prowar the un-
employed in our ccuntry were surported sither ty fsmily ties in villages
tadden
or in urban medium and small enterpriser as tatent unerpleyees. Eut
under the present social conditions the absorption of the unemplcyed is
not easy with the result thet unemployment problen gets directly connected

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.92)
with sociel problea.
As an effect of the deflationary trend or entesprise, the careless
minagement unuer inrletion is being severely criticisel and sincere
efforts are being made for the lowering of cost through roticnalization.
abnormal factors
However, the irratianol dlements stil! existing in the basic naticnal
econony place limits to the rationelization within enterprises. Owing
to the chortage of capital, the ratirnalizetlon is not effected through
improvenent of equipment ant technip tut thrcunh reductien of wa rkers
weab
and liguidation of -fechie enterprises. In the process of rationalization,
concentration of pioduction to liy enteryrises goes alongside the liqui-
datlon uf medium and small entaryrises, taus aggravating the smeial crn-
tradicticns.
Thq deflationary phenemens, with which cur present ecenemy is confrented.
were brought about partly by the suthod'x deflationary precess in which
shortege of purchasing power for consurer gosas crestes reductien in
investment opportunilies and cesult in relstive verprodactlen of produder
goods, sut the more direst cauces of ras unt doflali wary trand were
en)

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.89)
5
firstly the drastic cut f eoui.ceny fune f'r ruen Gov rnmant enterprises
as railways, conmunicati na, por vurke, ce. so the caaponsicp  the
financing by the Recenetrutn Fne k wh sere t. r
abruptly the purehesinp ower fr r in ie sustries, ie y
machinery industry, whih  chlerly     
pewer to bo created ty cuch funds. Esyaelnlly te dofticomary imsetr
were aggravated by the fact that the fineneing from tor Counterpart Pund
which shoule take the place of the finaneine From R.F.F was J lay ad and
thereby created several monins' vacuun and that in consequenes of the
abrupt change in econcmic policics the discontinuity of policies was
brought about resultin- in the continuatien cf producti n-ngt supported
by 'fund proeram. The second cause is that the current buiget is so to
speak a super-balance budget which tries not only to balance the revenue
and expenditure for this year but also to retire a substantial pcrtion
of the past Government detts, and alsc that the fund which flows back

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.97)
to city benks through the retirement of Government debts is net easily
financed f r long-term equipment fund, because of the insecurity and un-
profitability of enteryrises.
The umprrfitability of enterprises is a fundamentel pestwar problem
which s deep reoted in the eentraction of jomestie market, dearth f
capital accumulation, less of political and economic autonomy, instsbility
of expert market, etc.
The third cause is that although the econ mic
stabilization program based on the current balanced budcet simed chiefly
at exporting the surplus tc be created by the reduction in jumestic
purchasing power and production increase, the expected expansion of
export has not been effected owing to the incomplete eyistence of
our external facters required for export expansien and to the everseas
exchange contrel, import limitatien and to the recent world-wide ec:nosic
recession, thus relative overproducticn heing created through the contracti:
of domestic and foreign purchasing power.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.91)
firstly the drastic cut of euvi.meny fune for such Gov. rnment enterprises
as railways, conmuniceti na, pubcs works, ctc. sod the suspensich co the
financing by the Recenstruetion Finanen Hank waich sorved to rejuce
abruptly the purchasine power for r sue b in besic industries, porticulorly
prrorducto
machinery industry, whieh had chierly becn depond nt uren bhe  usclasing
power te be created y cuch funls. Rsys elully tbe doflstlcmary impsets
were aggravated by the fact that the rinaneing from tne Cruntarpart Tund
which shoula take the plaee of the finanetng frem R.F.f was Jalayed and
thereby created several months' vacuum and that in consequenes of the
atrupt change in econemic policics the discentinuity of polieies was
brought about resultinr in the continuation ef producti n net supported
by fund proaram. The second cause is that the current budget is so to
speak a super-talance bud et which tries'not only to balance the revenue
and expenditure for this year but also to retire a substantial pcrtion
of the past Government detts, and alsc that the fund which flows back

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
tc city benks through the retirement cf Government debts is net easily
financed fer long-term equipment fund, because of the insecurity and un-
The unprofitability of enterprises is a fundanental pestwar probler
which is deep reoted in the centrectien of domestic market, dearth of
capital accumulation, loes of political and economic autonsmy, instsbility
of exuort market, etc. The third cause is that although the economic
stabilization prcgram based on the current balenced budget aimed chiefly
at exporting the surplus to be created by the reduction in domestic
purchasing power and production increase, the expected expansion of
export has not been effected owing to the incomplete existence of
cur external factors required for expert expansion end to the everscar
exchange centrol, import limitaticn and to the recent werld-wide econenic
recession, thus relative overproducticn being created through the contrection
of domestic and foreign purchasing power.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.94)
心
一
Under such circuustances, in case the deflaticnary character of the
current budget is somewhat sirigated, the Counberpart Fund starts
promotion
functioning and steps for exy rt production are taken, there is e possibility
that the impending crisis vay be fairly mitigated. It sneull be notices
in this connection thrt the mitication of defletionary charmcter f the
tadget aces neu necessurily mean inflationary policy and that it can be
done within the framewerk of the balaneed lusget.
directly a inderealy
Our basie industrier - particulery h-avy industry - were nainly maintained
by the state and Zaibatsus capitel in prewar. It 1s rather toe much to
try to maintain then profitably on the much deterierated postwar ec nomic
base by a trifle non-Governmental capital and financinrs from city tanks.
In such case direct or indircct Gevernment investments are unaveidable
and their drastic slash cannct tut deel serious blow with our whcle economy.
In case where econoric hase itself is insecure and long term fund is
required, it will be clear as in the case of the arshall Aid Plan that

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
Governmental investment should replace private cne.
especially the investment for repair
mitigatien of deflationary trend and to facilitage the attainment of
self-su; pert by improving such tasic eccnomic epertments as transportation,
communicetion, electricity, shipping, etc. The investment ef capital
in such departments is most productive and a most effective unemployment
relief measure.
Furthermere for the healthy development of export industry, there bhould
be a stabilized domestic market cn the one hand. Even if we try to promote
the expert for example of relling stock, ships and various industrial goode.
should greater part of their products be dependent upon insecure foreign
market, it is difficult to continue a heelthy management of enterpriee.
In short, an expansion of investment in the basic industries et fresent
will result in an eventual saving of aid to Japen.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.93)
In view af the trend  weris ce momy which is rapidly coanging from
seller's market to buyer's market, it should ef course be regarded that
the recent stabilization meusure voull not fursher be postpened. We
must not forgeu that the patienalization of domestic econony and leworine
if cost tnrough the crrict rrevontion of inflation and the promotion
of export thr uph  our toopeate com ctitive power are the largert
reguirements for pur cprry w e cunomic self-support is delayed.
On the other hand it is  sa for the realization of a lasting ssif-
support econony bullt un realtny tasis to pay sufficient considoration
to the productien, emplmyment, secial problens, etc. within the country.
The sfabilizatien measures now being taken in cur country may ce
likened to a majer cperatien attempted to cure a serious illness wh.ich,
if left unattended, would radally weaken the patient. without this
operation Japan's ecenemy vill not ta rehabilitated. At the same time,
ucless cautious measures ar taken at apuropriate time followfeg the
operation, there is a danger that the 1llness becomes more sericus than
befcre. vur country may be said to have arrived at a stage when really
uverall measures covering nct only eccnonic but also social aspects of
the proulem be put inte pracvice.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.97)
Dndix of Industrial
Blackmurket Price
Production
I ndex (capital jiods)
1447mcerage :100
1930-1934：100
250
90
80
200
1949
70
1949
1948
60
150
1948
50
1947
40
1947
100
30
1546
20
50
10
mar Jun Sep sdec
0
Mar Jum Sup slec

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.96)
Bankmate Jesue
Value of
Billion yen
400
11million dollars
million
sallars
80
1943
70
300
60
1949 Contrant
1948
50
200
40
1948
1949
30
1947
100
20
1947
1546
10
0
vrillion Mar fun sep
eec
Billion
mar june Ssp
slec
Sollars
yen
31
30
30
31

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.93)
田
250
200
1949
150
19+8
100
1347
50
15
894.50/11-249
Enc # 2 t D 767 fm Lakys 11-4-43

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.80)
COMING AIRGRAM
fleselRis
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISIÓN OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REGDRDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ENATIONAL RESOUNES BIVISION
Littrots mr. mest, anny
111940
7307
nw.23,7949
ORTHEAST ASIAN AF
USPOD, Tokyo.
 cru
NOV:1 1949
fid
bacc of
EPARTIEN OF STATE
ber 2, 1949
3:72 on
1K.13arga
A
22
ore ee Depte!
os  sub ect of possibt roviv of
  roped to furnfsh dotailed
69
In vion of departure for
1.11
Eo, Chior of Fair Trade Prac-
4
Iion. Economic and Scientific
ive now that it would be more
5
as Govermment cction may
0
rent confer on ubject with
wets he
has dotailed knowledge of
le.s
in sut cooned
led y Hr IHaGakI Heitaro,
2
d popeare to be plenning two
4
Fereign change and Loreign 
 o tuteraational Frade and
o price and quality of axporto,
which porers voul
 over oxportors as well as
simintstrs ivo
1
ng cporte on other hand, Trado
sceietior w
averad status o cxport associa
沉
Th.s exportr
 cense to Jorm encociations
Conilu
 r  
s y sive mch ssctations
 charact ertss
EsS Foreien Pra
n has eugvosted tha amendments
to Prade Asseetsien  way
o  private bill from floor of
Diet ratter or ar as cuor
 levomoent bill If Goverment Soe-
n.  d
ll o sponsor it is posrible that mond
boun suondtted for rovir and
ur e be in keepinr vith the
and it is cmctdored  peaitl
E
C
FILED
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken
工
649

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.73)
TOK:O'EA
Hombe2
Ph
hov  chie Ission, have
l coadrters. It to
 to take advan
sat
b.1.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.96)
COMFDENTIAL
December 5, 1949
The Aeting United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo.
For the information of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
Attached: Copy of letter to kr. Robert R.
Rest, from Mr. John . Allison, dated November
23, 1949.
Edward E. Loherty,
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
CONPDENTIAL

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.86)
Dhule DeR
RNGOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRASN BRANCH
CIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
KOV1:1949
ATRCRAH
2710
PAPTMEN OF SR
NA
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
CORFMDENTIAL
Dato of
mailing:
November 5, 1949
od: Nov. 76, 7949 4:47 
FOLL DEPAHTGRE
ONLY
CTION
894.50
Somretery of Staco,
INFO
EGR
We chington
7,
EUR
A-294. November  94).
GER
Phio airgres mmppucments this Miasion'a
1.CT.
∴ 292, Cc1obe: 27. 199, and ear1lier air-
TP
Crens in shie series. Request distribu-
1D
tion be lioitod to Department for rea-
5
OTT
sous st in A-21 of Janvar: 28, 1949.)
549
1 Ofricer Vicste voto ebo-Ornke District. Officer of this
Maptor. who corvod as Viee Cnnot at AMoonGkn, Osaka. in 1940-4l, durinm
pest neok vicited vote-Oeaka Sobs distriet for first tine since then
athouph e had hoara of ade. preul destruction of Osaka by bombing, fu
appreslebion of destruction sol ponlized until view of city obtained by
hmolrgy to top of Oeaka Casti. Srom thio point of vantage, mary
quare miles cf estroyed plants md other buildinge clearly visdble,
Ath upparently Little being dono to rehabilitate planta. Cowntowmn Osalta
ch ngod somouhat but famt Liar Lantamrks may still be found Driving
STATE
foa Oecka to Kobe, cfficer v sited village of Shukugawa, where all Oes s
AY ONGky persontel housed in prever daye Village untouched by bombing
a.d practically unchanged save Per pressnce of U.S. Army families in
all hones forwerly oceupicd b, foreign colony, as wull as in many better
Jepanere-ovmed honen. Doseruction of downtown Kobe fairly complote with
meny cld landmerko mireing cd with premises in moot cases oceupied by
Japanese Living in maltoshift sheltere Motcaachi, Kobe's famed chopping
street, being revived but prevar atroephere absent, with certain thops now
selling hardware, consuser goods, ot cotere, shereas prowar Motomachi
known primnrily for its shops cetoring to courists. General iroression
gainned that rehabilitetion work in Ocaka and Kobe lagging behind thai
in Tokyo.
T
2 Serly Mxodua of Certain Anerisan Tradors Predicted  
F
inlhn, longetime resident in Japan nd now manager of nmerica: iredls
PERMANENT RECO RD GOPYTbls  st e ened to DC Arater h don obatleea
工
工

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo'e A-294,
Novembor 5, 1949.
2 
Tokyo, predicted early exodus from Japan of American traders operating
on "uhoestring" and of "carpet-baggar" variety. Taylor amplified his
ramark cy stating that he had been amazed recer.tly to have 179 Americans
apply for poaition a junior omployee in his im, this in response to
newspap.r advertisenent. Discussion brought out factors responsible
for possible early return to U. S of various nerican traiers, e-
pcixliy tnosu who had left Econonic and Scient ific Soction (Ess),
General Headquarters, usually with staka of se eral thousand dollars and
with hi h hopes of becoming established as ix rterr auud exportors. Re-
turn of Japanese traders to foreien markets ci d  mportant reason for
unfaror tle prospects, ut perhapa oven more 3 gaificaut is possibility
Japaras vt nay adopt recosdendation eade o, Shou,  axation Missior
to covam ne: taxin forei n business men as frx Jar. 1 2s50. Addi-
tionali. speed with which trade nd exehange  ontecl, being turned
back o Japanese authoritées iving ris to to reher stons on pert of
certui: kmerican tredars who are aot auployees of vn 1l established
Americ, eoncerns Lnte restig to noto also at 're icar Chamber of
Conaeres ia Japan. Tokye has enc unter d dirf cult ia ecllecting
manbers ip aues fror cercain American tradara  hose financial resources
aopeau  be extrorely liadtedumerisan Clus lse enbarrassec in thio
regar Conssrvati ely estimates thet from or fourt! to ore-third of
Aner . toaders now lc ensed to do business 1. Japyr may, witihdn next
12 s s. isl condi ns eo unfavorao:e es  cat e hedr return to U.
2 to Frese tr malparation of c 1 m 1bor Unione.
Ittn . to1 conventior of Joner al Federatior r . bo Ur Lons (Sodomei)
now  g lece, Lss oor Division has decti a  t hae ds pdpe for
aation botween shat Federztion an! chs  dration of
Indu   ucions (Shins umpetsu) Stroag)y wor   sage wdll there
fore t batly ve sent e convention strassiny ses has, if emulgamatien
is to o ke lace, i. a u tase place no. cnt sp o ticn is, of cours.
expet from right ving leader: typi i ed by     ome kicha, Chairma
of bt sdecet Centrat oubive Connite
1 ether Leber u slepaents(a)  n as l fted bill umde
woul i: eifest extond  rovisions of vatioral uut urvice Lw to oce
pybi servants. Ess  ll actespt to iparrt I o  rerul distinetion
besy pon public ecrvants and ampic yees in put ii en apris  than exiat:
in wat ai law, but fin al detero nation vell  do bt rart wivh Govorr
ment section (b) t now apuear trat, due o Pude  y cgenciea,
Hatt e. Hallway wo kerr will not receive pay nero oss. in sp.te of
fact  present wages are considerably below  ho av: iling in
priyite indastry Ss has overrvled opinien o its hsbor Division, and
will ar erontly ge alony dtl view of Finace ini y tht woge rieu
CONFLDLTIAL

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokyo's A-294,
Novombor 5, 1949
3
are out of question at moment. Froblen of whe her and hov long
Goveneent ilway Workers' Union can ramain iuactive nd still surrive
bears watching (c) Most recent statistice in cale iat real incomes
of paid wockers continued to decline in August Iniicus un which
stalictics are baeed are, of course, open to p cstiol:, but trend ap-
pears to have set in which wili be accentueted if, as appears probable,
price of rice is raised, and if controla on st inle fosis cre removed.
It shouid is noted, however. that prop asd rolease of stockpiles of con-
suner goods may countoract trand at lenst or :mmediove future.
In saatisfaction Expressed at Torms ef cerman r de Arrangement.
Gersn Frane Arrangement which wis ai led v'r hast I - ir Tokyo on Ocl.
31 (parently at instuse of Mr  GA rector of Trizone Import.
Exoort scthority) calt for perchaser y each ddo of 3lt,050,000.
ScA: : a: earliar agreed to purch: ses t leve!  about 35, 000,000, and
considere  t dir orence is reprusented by po  es mnt als, particularly
Gercen mechiery ard metet prodece, r wrtet bat a  Ap requtred by
terns e Aivengemons co grant tsport ceneer. La gess sxport item,
on  he band is texts products, ree irir tly c dellare. Feal
ing tat apan will be obligec und egreea t o  ake unwanted pur.
cha A see e rievance revelves round Gt we. ref laa to sell
wolat oftealh Texts dll t fore e  va lablo sineo
toxt  Praie Arangemont prover is iiatical  s sgned in
Pr  some th, arter  y  o
 soreer rade Hotee  Hr Phecc: C. . ati ser to Ceneral
Mai t. eustes that, ntrery tu all  xpec:ot n c al valus of con
tras: vuliuates oe i Uctober Totai val t t cae.s calling for
eal t serli area , but r nent   sht loes to de-
valui than vo suspe ster of icens t   egdm Jonelusion
wout ape ar to bo that Japen neri not se pr ke sto devaluing yen
(b) r trde mitor o Palis av s r rouremont in
thet coanty of trade arrargeaar ito. (pe. l  steon and jute).
in v of fal in ri in  sn vr' tn of trade
retwn irdia al akis o ( Snt ras at egotiationo
be peced in sangkek on Novembe ip ev ard    new Prade
Arragenent od Prade Pian Be  eved IereLe   t veen two er eas.
shieh pressnt y totals nly 30 lali u   s to double that
jigure
500
CHEos ringer/Coeanenst eker:leo
CO

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.83)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF BOMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
2717
t 11/03
TERNATIONAL RESUNGES WIVISIOA
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
Date of
Novembor 9, 1949.
(Dr
Nov. 76, 1949 4:48 km
MHM
18
255
A
thisii A-280
o. No
ival  oport assodia
ior
cacried leedSarticleSto
of
 Calvin VRITY, Deputy
(s). Ministry of interne-
1.1
rm araft bill to logalize
68
cuch
. Yeelty gave so-ehead sige
227
tes cgriclly ever having sape-
4
bácned
 t to Mind etry that inforal group
cally for certain coal salos to
5
  fr cry fro uthorisation
0
expreesed censiderable concern
ho antended to inctruct NIrI to
2.47
whauthorized statcments to
y so Sinister of Dnterna-
wile uxplicit approval
6
droins up law Mhich it hopoo
 detaile of plan subetantially
 oli so in Auchi Shimbun of
t Mr Verity with euggcsting
 tions broad powere over prie
 ricll port associatione would o
exmp ed pom prostolons ef es Yenopoly Law and Prado Aasociation
Las ame weutd to apove to " osalise" the price, quality and
grantt er pert coote. t eades ke certain cooperative prejecte
工
ad e pespecet to s stese ess movesent of export cosmoditiesy so
H
inspert end to wdertne coopo  ivotr the saprovenent or expes
 c sre, to gather foreigu markat
2006
 to advance loans bo partiud
DECLASSIFIED
sormagn trade Asahi moted com
E.O 11852. Sec. 3(0) nd 5(0) or (T):
 wed to 
NND 740179
FILED
aicos.
By upy cms, w20 2/34/72
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.67)
Yol7o2 295k Noveber 1949
(eprUs only
Kss Poroian Trade ad Cazner aad Pc adn Praatioes Div
s have indirated to i li ssi. thepusi lom to mow move.
sch hy say vas to n ad  tha Doliv
enmi doide ar
 Chier Frad Di.w i sow on p
 n  ys 
1502
3A

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.79)
NH
A IRGRUAA
2113
2
ROM:
USPCLAD. Fokyo.
EA
ACTICH: FE
INFC
cato of
DCF.
Mailixg
Novedbor 2. 1949.
EJF
 B: Ncv. 16, 194) 4:48 p.m.
AIL
E
DE:
toNA
P1
Secret
Ryply para7
Cufted 11/18/49.
301
 i suion'
NA
89
  varlier air
Romrat drotriaee ett
4
to    or 
file
299
5
0
1
half 
e () n n
ber ?
refercea to
Der
 c  in
telet
1grod
2
tarke:
49
1r
—44
100s0
o he Yes Cste co
idder ;
 b
con
    1
h
made cn
Actio
o ric of l Pro
y 
Cle poont srelais
Coo1
1th 0T.
bi renetorred
to 
4 00.00 which
Chira cua
FILED
心
工
心
工
é

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.69)
Tobyo 3 4 303
Dovester 2, 19
2:
t to histo  e nd c   or hier 
htht
thw b
ioltzn ie
lece incon ta
coucldd h
g cutr
11
 ESS
1istr. butio
h o.
F
  por
r
o
 Counterp t
dding tha
brat
uned
 D 
 of S
10
on
GA
cing
ally
 Vine kred
vstdraw í
pos21
sucs ia Ch
AsDrF10
hat e
 Punn ly Commni

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.73)
Tokyo:s 4=303.
Hovamber 12, 1949.
3.
vathin noxe Pow yearo Dr Fine (orelude3 as cccervationo by
wmating that he reund extresely unbarraiag inlecisive us
os sition or rburning is usg' confronctng ssecing which. he ald,
nhoed recaplete lass o: leairsat p on px us celegate.
Heference
sove  or lever9,1949
se vn  . Da  ef o s fo ed riistry of
 do d d sur r)  tom et hi
todar rro ooron wod of
san t: r ly sl  d to luk    to Jap
d ewlg
ofid
uch
e C  Crme
ty to firther
escstt no
l in
31295
b  mant
1srely
sionL
 2o 
dop
oci
nae of new
maler 1 have
ssictional
ane Control
ttke pos
ononal
in pherat
rl. conse
 con
atcr als for
reised ds
a Sa ppins
556
orcorable
(frieea
cocen vatere

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.73)
C TO 8 A=303
ic vmber 12. 1949.
 llerea mautor iceoly aettled durin: vist of CAp  rade
écon to Lztin America a feit only probles remining 
cre f clearace for xdi rid al n ior no d arnciato Dopt'
 ont on causosor siift  Hexicar ro ien f ndeed thero
a toor en
oo nsie  cooe  me o ere   al lio for
yer r srede gr d lehorlands
.20
rP9:nmpti
no
g
xtin
73.
7 re :nlono

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.96)
F
THE FORIIGN SERVICE
OF THE
N
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
13
CIN
REC'D
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
NOV21
for Japan
ACTION
Tokyo, November 
1949.
HEASNAA
1947
INFO
No. 791
FR
DCR
114
ITP
UNCLASSIFIED
OFD
POS
OLI
DS
Subject: Transmission of Statement Regarding
COM
American Aid to Japan.
894.50/11
TAR
AGRIC
TREAS
FRB
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a statement entitled "American Aid to Japan," issued November 9,
1949, by the Public Information Office, General Headquarters, Far
East Command. Toiye. It will te noted that this statement was pre-
pared by the Programs and Statistics Division, Economic and Scien-
tific Section General lieadquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
According to this statemer  a basic shift in the scope of
American id -c apan has ured since its inception following
the termination f ostilities. The initial intention was to pre-
vent disease and uires uring recent months the concept of
American aii as a re ief  pelhabilitation measure has been super-
seded by an int ention to ss Unitei States appropriated funds prim-
arily cwards he s a f  talanr ed ec onomy and to cover the de-
Picit in Japan s lere f payments.
Enclcsure:
Copy of Infermation Bulletin No. 26
dated Noventer 9. 1949, entitled
"American Aid to Japar"
Copies to: American Embassy, Lendon
American Embassy, Manila
American Embassy, Seoul
DEC 23 1049
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
FILED
Parchment Mat to he Depar ment.
500
FAP
CHBcehringer:lee
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN:

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch o. 791,
November 14, 1949, from the Office of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Tranamission of
Statement Regarding American Aid to
Japan."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Infermation Office
Information Bulle:in No. 26
9 November 1949
AMERICAN ATD TO JAPAN
(Prepared by the Eronomic and Scientific Section's Programs
and Statisties Division, GHQ, SCAP)
A basic shift in the siope of American Aid to Japan has occured
since its in eption fcllowing the termination of hostilities.
The iritia  intention primarily, was to prevent disease and un-
rest wiich might endanger the occupation forces or prejudice the suc-
cessful accomplishmert :f their mission. Clearly, however, though
Japan's irst  ritirai meed was to secure a minimum level of subsis-
t ence, ss cf her en:my required immediate measures for
econoni: vehani itati and beginning with the budget for fiscal
year 94? unts f r that specifi: purp se were appropriated. This
made  sit e th- pr  u: euen: of producers gcods as well as the sub-
sistence t-ms to hyr expenditures of American Aid funds for Japan
hat leen arg- y vte However, it was inereasingly realized that
no m     y been dislocated, but her tra
di   a    o  eenony of the Far East as a
w 
s apa tesh a ew equilibrium both internally
and ex erre here c, luring recent months the concept of American
Aid as  re e  elatlor measure has been superseded by an
intention tc use United States appropriated funds primarily towards
the goal of a balarced economy and to cover the deficit in Japan's
balance of payments, This probably will be reflected in fewer limita-
tions over he types and the quantity of essential commodities to be
procured in the future from American Aid funds for Japan.
The underpinning of the Japanese economy provided by American
Aid imports has lately been reflected in increased supplies distri-
buted through rationing channels. Textile fabrics available for
household use have increased from .38 pounds per person during calen-
dar year 1948 to .89 pounds during 1949. Also imported staple foods
have made possible an in rease in the proportion of rice released
through rationing.
American Aid imperts int: Japan increased during the first half
of 1949 over the previous six-month period, although the proportion
of American Aid to ctal imports declined. During the latter half
of calendar year 1949, both an absolute and proportional increase in
Americar Aii is projected.
During
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tekyc's Despatch No. 791
November 14, 194c..
-2-
During the pericd January thrcugh y 194? American Aid com-
modities imported from the United States were valued at $258,900,000.
These consisted primarily of food valued at $177, 700,000 (representing
E4 percent of all imported fcod-stufis). oils fats and waxes valued
at $38 300 000. and 1bers and text les valued at $16 700 000. 2n-
pores f raw co  unoer e EROA pr gram arrt ved for the first time
during .
the tta v e  ae ao Ad caw t n imrted durine anuary
uhrouge  e u urre  sle s . we  represented 9.6 per
cent f  aw   imp ted sr me te pocted. Virtually the en-
tire sup y  a : petrel-wn preducte  omes fcn Aterican Aid and
these have srve s st-alily in reasi g quantities since the begin-
ning cf a.n. c ing cal and ammerium ritrate are alse im-
porte   Txrites rm the Unite States with appropriated
funds.
anr   us mp ed from countries other than the
Uhed s ju  aary through July 1949 were valued
a 
 f Anerican Aid funds in countries
- s asn ainly for food-stuffs, including
md
I  a Fracs and Java rice from Egypt,
 ne ad China and maize from French
I-
 L949, hower American
than the United States
S
 the United States has been
s amp. rted ints apa. under
.
 Id Stares has heen the
. cured froe Snds ther
m the Untted States during
 er sntare ap rts during the
Y e Thted Staves during the
r est ef her tetal imports.
Purchase pewetment: for imp rts iate Japar rec orded during the
peried Jannary pl rog Sept-m er 949 indicate that approximately 85
percent e spe. ve maperes financed by American Aid funds will
come fm he Urated 3a es as well as rproxmately 34 percent of
imperts finer ed  sumere-at funds
ports fr m ne r e States phcluded l8 sot ooc of wheat,
66 900 c00 of other sta1ie fo:d $16 200.000 of raw cotton $3, 600,000
of commodittes traosa: tions re onied n purchase commitment documents
vari ough'y Prr he t ten m oths f:llowing the date of SCAP
validation.
A sighiss ant ore pment ing April cf this year was the estab-
Li stmert f a: nterpat i for apan. The yen proceeds of sales
of conmcditie pr. ei . Ateri an Aid imports were then segregated
for the fir  as ps t this fund. The purpeses in estab
lishing the i ver fits y  develupe an additional toel for the
task
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyc's Despatch Nc. 791,
November 14, 1949.
-3-
task of achieving finarcial equilibriun in Japan, secondly to pro-
vide a source from which capital expenditures for approved public
projects would be available, and thirdly, as a means of facilitating
debt retirement. During the period April 1949 through October a
total of 66 704 millin ye: has heen dep sited to the counterpart
fund.
The first six montis of 19i9 merked also the termination of
transfers to the Japanese  vernment fr:m the Office of the Foreign
Liquidatien Commissioner for Japan. During the Life of the OFic in
Japan, which  onmenied 1ate in 1946 and continued threugh March 1949,
commedities whese prccurement co st was $51,600,000 were transferred
to the Japanese at a stated value of S14,000.000.
Commodities transferred to Japan under the program for diver-
sion cf surp us m itary stocks and under the Surplus Incentive
haterials p gram ikewise appear in the import statistics at nominal
valmations niy. The la:ter which consists largely of clothing, is
statisvi ally va u-i uring te pericd f occupation through February
19.9 at S26 .. Sments f comodities to Japan under the
Surpius Inceti'e Mater als pr gram were terminated as of June 30,
1940.
It s  benefit o Japan of American foreign
essi stan- s s   i i  the value of commodity imports
wt a  ay rited Srates appropriated funds. A
sd   sis fr Japan is made possible only
nsr an  s anted untries other than Japan.
It s estinarr
 -rm t during 194e Japanese experts to
r thar $50. 30 c00 were made
F esa -
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Nit
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DC/R
ple
e
wokie
Corurll
Fil
894.50/11-1649
cul-
erence
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
M

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.92)
Tory s Despatch No. 77,
9。
-2 -
foreice is made to utilization of the United States Aid
Scunterpar: Fund. the first approval, involving use of Yen 6,990
millnon. teing given by Jeneral Headquarters, SCaP, on July 25,
whI A Loan to the Japan itrogenous Fertilizer Company: in the
  17 million, was approved on September 26, the
Latiur vin tre first loan to private industry. Details are
ves wath re ard to the reduction in Japanese Government sut-
iy ys in thi: fiscal year, which the Cabinet decided on
e  m er 1s to reduce by Ten 35 billion.
he roard makes passing reference to the important Shoup
in : ission s recomrendations, noting that as the impact
of e com.endations upon Japanese economy is "profound",
a are report thereon will be prepared.
 are iven on indussrial production, foreign trade.
prlces. w: s and living costs, and labor.
opy f inthly conomic Report
for octoter l9? prepared by
cononc Stabilization Board
(in juintuplicate to Department)
Parchnent Mat to the Department.
001
CHdoehranger: lee
UNCLASSIFLID

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.79)
heDlR
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEBRAPH BRANCH
NA
No.t
D, Tok.
19.49.
130
NA
lust
81.
23
894.50/11-
949
PAAE
Cor xai
n
1  ri 1e3c
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R centrai fies with notation of action taken.
工

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.60)
Tokyo a ho
bt e
sr
l
：1

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.83)
NH
ANCOMING AIRGRAM
886
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
US LAD. Tokyo.
Hotcmber 28, 1949.
00.7.949 9:00 
N
Act:
moales
12/13/45
thi Nisien s
a d ecriter
NA
Nt
file
89
a prat l
4.50
i1
we ecle gen
covte ceeovery
0
2
eraends of
on o po
c. d
26
49
JE
FILEPHH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fites with notation of action taken.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokyo' A-323,
November 20, 1949.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Dertment lUise Cnly)
intent her: is to sell for free dollars. According to Financial
Attachd Dierl, not likel that Treasury will be interested in mur-
chaging silver or that  nesu ovt will be obliged to offer it
firet to other Fto counrrles
4.. Me Dode Has Srana Lusut for ESB ReFeronce made to item
(7). a-255, Oct 7, 194s m tit w1 "Lconoric Starilization Poard
Under Pira " At luncheon Ijch tro ofricers of this Miasion had
weveral davo ay with Nr Dodre lstter related incident involving
Dr. Carl  sllour. heed f recent saxation wisslon to Japan, and
Hr. Takayoshi dofl, Diroctor Generai of Econaric Stabilization Board
(uSB) Mr Dedpe stated that Dr Shoup had apreed to discuse tax
ghestiona wdch tokd on  riet uncarstanding that no mublicity would
 mde of discussione On io cwine lay conolete account of meet-
in a aree in tocal pr se. t is poporrtedly annoyed Dr. Shoup so
wurl ti ie caneelled ll jurthur metinge wath Aoki and aleo
rofused r sese eny other Esi cifislsla lir Doage went on to state
that be  mself wae extremoly dissrastful of Acki and Esp officials
punerally si ce he vas ccnvinced that confidentiel metters could
not te di susssod with tiam save undor constant threat or publicity
leake I Dodge added shat Aoki end other key FSB officials are
obvicusly rollo ing dufinile rolicy of minimsing achievements of
econcrds  hl zarion prost a, thy favoring measures which indi
rectly would result in wcontrelled inflation It will be noted
that s? offlcisls are not only Japaneas guilty of giving confi-
dential 1 roraation to ans, soe or instanco, 1tem (4), A-267,
0o 14.
 afe of Yew Yoralm Meahnze nd Trade Gontrel Lew Com
of fhoal raft c? nuw dapenodo Joreign oxehar e and forsien trade
sontrol lew nor bmaing tyred for transvittat to bert for reference
to Gommerce, Treaeury en other tatereeten  s covt apenaiee.
Thip law wae prepared in  jeintly by t Cot  T. RYDeR.
Exocutive Orc r J R l sot ter. Japanes
Pinance Divisdony sud r Rurealt  at Denuty Grtef, Foreign
Trado and Comerce Divi alon, in con rstn. with Jaonesa Govi
officialn conened Accordine to  Jaiv Vsry, s Deputy
Chier. Je xnose Cabint pas alreedy sg l  sre that draft la
do passse by Dtot: lator aaad by Yerlty a Lave bren ecl eduled
to dácup drart las on Fov 25 or 26
Japenese delepates te   Feponcs of Wor la Fuderetion of Frce Tre
Untous lu for Lopon  ie weck, seeou oted by Hr Nobert Ps
cttef of  Laber bivacson in spite of has ouenly expressed
rsare to wecens da stion. Hs Yoonkichi president of
rerad Pero rer (Sode wt reluded on mrounds trat Fir

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo' A-323,
Novomber 26, 1919.
-3
CONPIDENTIAL (For Denartnent Use Only)
faction discredited at last convention of Sodomei. Non-inclusion of
Matsuoka marks another step in rogram to eliminate right-wing
influence in Sodomei toward oventual amalgamation of Sodomel with
other non-communist labor organizatiana Dec1sion to send Amis with
delegation apparently mad by General MacArthur when delegates
Indicated that they hoped to press for early peace treaty, for exten-
sion of fiahing area, for expansion of the Japanece merchant marine,
and for certain other highly controversial objectives. Felt that
dio  saion of mich extraneous itoms. perticularly in view of United
Xingdom e genere! distrust of Japanere revival, would be moat unfore
tunato et tis tme
7. Lss Iater Divisicn Cpposea Establishment of APL Office. For
wecond tine is recent uonths, SCAP has received proposal from American
Federation o: Labor that letcer establiah advisory office in Japan
for purpose of elpir, to fight Comaunist monace. ESs Laber Division
strongly opncsed to project on grounde that it would in effoct mean
establishnent o" tyo sbor Divislons In this connectien, it may be
pointed out tha division cf resoonsibility between Ess Labor Divi.
ston cend Gorermr ent Seetior a Civl service Division continues to be
source of cortlict with  ove ofter tran not encountering defeat.
3 Gonaral Optimiem Pxevails Reardin ffecis of Sterling
Devaluailon. Ess foreign trade offi-i: la conrident that trade is
reguining pre devalvation propo tions Textiles in narticuler, it is
p. inted out sre celling et rate almost equal to that prevat?ing since
st ah ishmeit of singio exchange rete and, with recent conclusion
of terling Arue Trade Arrangemant. wmay be expected to climb still
bicher In cther fieids particularly steel and machino producte,
there is susricion thst cortrzcte are being pusposely delayed in hopes
ef foreine develuation of yea, tt is not believed. however. that
po for or oror tor feat" com b conirned for vory Lory
9 Foreim Trude Hoted (1) Track and Financial Arranpement
between Japar und syuloyus bave been w ned call ing for palee by
Japan to cotel spuroximately sy million and curchaces to total
anprozimately l millson alee may is revieed upward. dopending
on progress of conety uction orejectu in Rrulyus. Trade to be on
cash dollar basia. Texts will be Foravrded by desratch. (2) Drafe
Trade and Pinancial Arrangeaente bave bon cubaitted to Thai Covern-
imont for consideration prior to forthcening trads conforence In
nddition to schedulinyg considerably enlurged volume of trade, drafts
propose podt ficetior: in peyrente arrangment to provide for "ewing
account  whereunder balences in Oren ccount above specified level
will be c ttled in couh Texts vdll be Forxerled (3) By working
CONPIDSNTIAL

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.73)
Tokye, 32
A
Pepur  ens Use )
ortice  Porel ode rfistals stal hope to meet Decamber 1
w to freo t rawing up of diot or
rete for  icseo s be regudred io understood
 et  l() uiit of Prench Yace-Crina
et t o  31, Tdo ohina had favor
Sanque
sser nt had rcreaned

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH
888
AIRGAN
rAi
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokye.
949
CON TONNTIAL
Dete of
Drpartmess  State
miling:
December 2, 1949.
Itec d: Dec. 7, 1949 9:00 am
FOR DEPARTITNT UST ONLY
AOTION
Lction Assigned to NQ
PI
Secratary of State,
Action Taken hearl
894.50/12-249
XR
Wachington.
TPX
YUR
No. 333, December 2, 1949.
COD
TOP
Novomber 26, 1949. and carlier airgramm dnothise s ubol /A
OFD
OJ
series. Request distribution be Limited to
Department for reacons stated in A roffgor
28, 1949.)
Direction to DC/R
I. U.S. R & R Delegation Ceases Operations. Pr. C. L. HODnE, Chief,
United States Reparations and Restitution Delegation, leaving Tokyc vithin
for deys for return to Washington (see Dspt's telegran 596, Nov. 1o, 949.)
Filee of Delogation to be trensferred to this Hi ssion, which will hive
chargo of winding up Delegation's affairs here, Hr. E. E. LAton, tech-
pical aide to Delogatior and manager of Tokyo branch office of Singer
Sowing Machine Company, will continue wnofficlally to serve in that capa-
ty.
2. "Technical White Papor" Being Forvarded. Copies of study  itlei
proparod by Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MiTI), no: tcing
ally roferred to as the "Tocimicel White Papor," tlds document issu woon
ter announcement of Nobel prize award to Dr. Hideld YUKAWA, Japan
phyaiciet, which awerd gave Japanese puolic much cause for prido ay sli
fhotion. "White Paper," howover, has taken edgo off this reaction
Ttating that Japan is from 10 to 30 yoars behind United States in  ng
and industrial technique.
3. JHA's Proposals to Boost Trado vdth China. Japan Mana eu
Association, organization comprisod of key officials in Japares: 
trading and manufacturing campanics, together with repreaent tives. ren
FILIH
1
certaia Japanese Govt agencies such as Reconstruction Financs Sank, hos
18.1949
prepared study antitled "Meareres to Boont Trade with China. " Coples 
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
CONFTD TIAL

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.61)
T
Decer.
thie. .
Mala fe
114
)
Y
prod
120
oft.31
Bani.
1.
000.110
ofricir
142
ce
allrerdtv.ci
o
0
 e wh
0  
u mper
n ceociried
 e vol cntlet  cc. .
      .
dop

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.68)
2oky:3
Docaci
90:

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.88)
78
DC
1R
THE FOREBEN SERVIGE
file
TD STRTES OF AMERISA
K
894.50/12-349
United States Pcliticai Adviser
for Jepan
89
Teayo. De:euiter 3. 1949.
4
20
No, 245
uoactin
RECD
5
DEC 9
J.C.
0
RESTRICTED
11
ACTION
FE
2
INFO
Ferrher Vrews sf Eroromee Stabtr: zetson Board weth
8
FR
Regard : Siahilizat: Pr:gram.
4
DCR
6
ITP
E
OFD
OLI
The Hons:ele
COM
ECA
Secca.ary f Stave
TAR
Waslirgor
TREAS
FRB
Siz;
NSRB
I      .
AGRI
LABAR
Rehatelscauien Repr.
Democrate: Par  snd Econorrr S.elcrreatece Boara wach Regard to
Econom S.atllsats a s90 f  ler 4, l349. "Coments.
eu Ss   . E :   r  
and to fowar eee ps      e oomic
Stelrsa sor Boara  Ese waer ats f Noreter . sa4e and
er e pale E y s e e t Se zaven
Progran"
The e.ed s sca.s he he  ecms sueb-
Taceten c hanea cn sertcer ass soeeces. coprpe sf wheek were
fo war lei  he Depar me  xve cr despetehes ms. ssg and 7s7.
In brief. the ESe e psaen ie the. e err hes tecome
stage sce erfre f he so s "pss pe". that
C
preaucsion levets hat feie  cse, hat s. ees have
iccreased. vhat sear weges have leves ei sff f c. fallen.
A
N
FILED
that unemp meme,  den, has rased that farm
incomes he.e deppei, ha: t rmer has dne. end thas
5
19
the rasionts capitar pian. is je.eris.acirg. The Board doea
50
no. so vo the extreme of blamine the Dege progecn for phio
unhappy state of affairs, in view of e s.ious externel fac-
tors as the de l acion of the pond ster ine and the wer_d
trend soward a tuyer's wa.kes. is does feel, however, that, in
工
the first plece, che deciine  effect s lmena and the conse
quent increase of inventories a e a  sr i_rect result of ina
dequete equipment fands, sn as she Lacter condition may be
ettributed to the retiremen, sf the mationar dett, to tight
credit polzcies. and cs crer-:auticus use of the American Aid
Courterpar: Fund, and that, in the second place. prosperity and
the attainment of self-sufficlency by L953 require consideratly.
ACTION COPYMore intestment the is irrents taking piace.
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITÉ A MOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.
The encicsed

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.94)
7
→.
Tokyo's Despatch No. 845.
December 3, 2949.
RESTRICTED
-2
The enciosed etudy is opez to attack on nunerous grounds.
and has reportediy been denounced by Major General William F.
MARQUAT, Chief of the Economic ana Scientific Section (EsS), as
partisar and overly pessimistic. The Board would be on somewhat
safer ground if. instead of tiaming the present state of the
economy in part cn the Dodge program, it were to argue that
external facte:. largeiy tejond the contrel of the Japanese have
been cruciai. tu: that. given such factors. the Dodge line repre-
sents rather toc irastis a speratien and should be relaxed.
Details of the study are aiso of doubsful validity: the Ess Por
eign Trade end Commer:s Di:ision quastions the figures on inven-
tories. for instance. whiie the problem of une loyment is a
highly controversial one on wtich even the ESs Labor Division
has zct yet made up iis mind. Sich tright spots as the building
up of foreign trade capite are moresver ignorea in the Board's
eppzaisal of the si.ation.
The rea point at ssrt, kowever would appear to be whether
or not Japai needs :apila nreame, and, if eo. whether or
not the supply of equipment funds is sufficient to cover the
need. It may te argues that with se much surplus equipment at
preseni, Japan cen  - be considered to require an expanded
plant. and it is cervainly rre that auch wer industries as
steel ena machine socls ere sver-expandad. In addition to pub-
Iic worke. however, the board is known to be particularly inter
ested in increasing capitai ia. estment in shipping and in hy.-
electris instaliaticns. in tesh of which fields it is clear that
there 1s considerable coom for expansicn. Officials of the Board
have etated  an fficer of this Mission that the production
level can be raised about 20 per cens in 1950 through investment
in enly these we ixtuatries
Opinione vary wide-y es ve wheshex er nor the demand for
long-term in estmens capitat is being er can te met from presently
avaiiehie r ls without rsccur ee so such extraordinary devices as
revival of the Recenstr:cticr Finance Bank. On the  and, it
is argued that the smali mber of applications for -oans from
the Counterpart Fund reveals a money market not so tight as is
popularly belleved and vhes. in view of the wild credit policies
prevalent during the Reconstruction Finance Bank era. 1t is a
mistake to draw conclusions from the fact that equipment funds
have dwindied during the past year. On the other hand, it may
be pointed out that the smali numter of applications for Counter
part loans may be explained by the evident difficulty of obtain-
ing such ioans and by misgivings as to the status of a company
that might be forced to default in repaynent (under the tradi-
tional syaten, the creditor bank wouid simply move into the board
of directors of the defauitin mpany). and that the shortage
of funds for long-term investment has been amply demonstrated by
the steady decline in stock pri: as during recent monthe.
Whicherer
RESTRICTED

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's Despatc No. 345.
December 3, 1943.
RESTRICTED
Whechever areumenn ts ecc-pved ps voull apeer that the
money market seed c remain as tstt es ts Lae been since the
effects of the De lte prsg em sgan s. be felt. Bank deposits
are inareasine stcedi end some weme sh pld te found te chan
nel then inte mg-vesn can:tal inves ments. Credi: from the
Counterpart F. : shouls become snereasirsly prailable, while
funds held by he Japanese Goverimenc s Deposr: Bureau repre
pe. anothex untapped scare ef crear..
Is is fel in this correctien the: particuler attention
should be given to the  iem cf financing medium and small
enterprises. The encicses study iesiates in sone detail the
positics wich which this Missiin is ia-lined to s wathize,
thet the coan w w e as ree compets is
anccduced cate epen v  ere sarr  he m eff
cient ore. The compee. whes a r atsi laree reserves durine
the inflationary percca ens the cepcey wtch has sosi fenen-
ciel connections wil be   gt pavantagecte positaon if
it consinues co be ne reeser  frmesce ircreasing inventeries
pendine expaneion of cr sees merke:s. Whether ci ws based
uen the Councrrpar: Pa? vhece pe an rae sed fer some
mecter   co sappt sme  e ea srprisee we h redt.
In epe of sharp ssagr emeat cx she tevs cf the Japeese
money prrket an senerel, there arseare to be ststersier agree
ment shet fte prreerit tres mede ererlatl: for hat purpose.
chiefl   Bs   r gate to fence
the credit reduitemests cf mellr enl shall eaterprlees.
A we 
pcaone of e  n  of the
tredisionally cloer escclatsn tesween the Econsmee Stabtliza-
tion Beerd and the Sociai Dsn cre i: Part. It will be nesed
that the ESB pe haps be arce of :te sr appy pesitien as Prime
Minister YosHiDA'e unwentsa cheis, has screplicusly refreined
from attacking the prtrciple ef she alexced tudget. The Sociel
Democratic Party has likewise refrsined from any public attack
upon that principle. While the Bourd admits that the Dedge line
precludes any advance in farn incomee for some yeanm  come.
however the Soclal Dexc cratic Pai y has accused the Gevernment
both of depressing ths worker and cf causing money io move
from farms to cilles. and tas th's impli:itly set iteelf up
as the champion of higher incomes for tcth farmera and indue-
trial leborers
The dilemma of the Sociar Denccratis Parmy is thus
apparents cn the cne hand, i: feais constrained nos to attack
the fundamentai principles of she Dodge prcgram, while on the
other it must woo agrarian suppor: with vague promises of
raising farm incomes, and i is lear that the latter goe
can be
RESTRICTED

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.84)
Tokyo's Despatch No.E45,
December 3 1943.
RESTRICTED
can te atcainea cnly by deprresms the s.anlard sf living of
industrial workere. r  rsrarrins co en infiatlonary spirel.
The Democratic Liberar Perty is  he Teppeer pesititx of
not carine ate the he rrepelrtas cater tore. and sf teing
able to gatle ca hp tecarr f etarian conserraliom eren
in the fars s co inrs E.srerity.
Reepec frrrr
Fo: he Arg Prtcai Adriser:
Ce- H. Beringar
Ecccic Cocnesler
Encissr.
Sever Cpee 
"Japan's E.. S_-e E-fer.e
ment f Statiiiza Frgram
Parchmert Met to the Drpere
500
EGSeidensticker. J: ke?
RESTRICTED

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.96)
.Some parts of this report. (especially that which
the post-war level of family expenditure and living etp
compared with the pre-war).require further study and 
be revised on the basis of this study.
9 November 1949
JAPAN'S ECONONY SINCE. ENFORCEMENT
OF
STABILIZATION PROGRAM
d
Economic Stabilization Board

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.97)
CONTENTS
I. Summary
1
II.
Progress of Economic Stabilization and Normalization
12
1. Recent fiscal and monetary conditions
12
3.
Price stabilization
21
3.
Normalization of ecnnomy
24
4.Sone progress in rationalization of enterprises
31
flow Doiwn
III. tagnation of Economic Rehabilitstion
37
1. Slump of foreign trade
37
2.
Decrease of investrent
45
3
(a)
Industrial investment
45
(b)
Public works and agricultural investment
50
3.
Shortege of effective demand
55
Leneling off
4. Starrtfon of production inircace
65
IV.
Effects of the Implementation of the Stabilization
Program
70
(A). Effect on business
70
1. 'General view by industry
70
(a)
Basic industries
70
(b)
Capital goods industry
77.
(c)
Export and consumer poods iddustries
82
2.
Present conditions of small ard medium-sized
businesses
85.
(B) Social effects
88
1. . Movements. of wage and living standard
88
2. Recent Iabour and employment si tuation
94
Trend of farmers' economy
99
V. Future Problems
103
1. Export and production
103
a.
Price

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
3.
Rationalization of enterprises
109
4. Investment
n1
5. Standard of living
113
VI. Conclusion
116

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
I.
Bumnary
The long persisted inflation in our ccuntry whiuh had been losing
its force since last year entered at last into its final stage with
the putting into effect of the economic stabilization program es
embodied in the formulation of the consolidated balanced budgets and
the establishment of the exchange rate. The issuance of the Bank
Notes kept on decreasing from 355.3 billion yen at the end of last
year to 29s.; billion yen at the end of July, this year and has re-
mained around that level. It has come to resume its normal sea-
sonal fluctuations es in pre-yar pericd. As regards prices, offcial
prices are still on a gradual rise due to the reduction of subsidies,
the establishment of exchange rate, etc., but blackmarket prices
began failing after ths beginning of this year. Effective prices
which are the combination of officiel end blacknerket prices have
been kept on more or less the same level since the start of this
year. The average wage of industrial workers kept on rising by
about l0% per month up till the end of lest year but it hes beensalmost
st bilized on the lavel of 8400-3500 yen per month in this year.
The abeve trends of currency, price and wage eloquently speak for the
recent stabilization of economy.
In the first half (April through September) of this fiscal year
the Government hed en exccss revenue of 29.1 billion yen over pey-
ment as a result of the execution of the balanced budgets.
On the other hand financing was temporarily tight in April and May
when our economy underwent major adjustments but the lendings by
finencial institutions have since recome active owing to the positive
operation by the Bank of Japan and to the smooth increase in bank

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
deposits and postal savings. The additional credit extension by the
Bank of Japan in the first half of this. year amounted to 32.4 billion
yen (10.7 billiun-yen if excess withdrawal of the Government's design
ated deposit is deducted) which was sufficient to counteract the
budgetary factors ceusing currency contraction and to maintain dis-
inflationary line. The above trend shows that the stabilization
program which originally aimed at restoring function of financing
from Government to monetary institutions is getting realized.
On the other hand, the disappearence of additional purchasing
power born of inflstion in proportion to the stabilization of economy
has served to lessen the disequilibrium between demand and supply of
commodities, to bring blackmarket prices down closer to official
prices,
enabling thereby a substantial repeal of allocations and
other ecomomic contr: ls and steadily expanding the sphere of free
competition in the economy.
Furthermore, the realization of stabilization and the expansion
of free competition have enabled in wide area the promotion of enter-
prise rationalization, the increase in labour productivity, the im-
provement in quality of products, the reduction in cost, etc. For
example, the national average coal production per face miner per day
increased from 1.44 tons in July last year.to 1.67 tons in July this
year. Taking into sccount the reduced working hours (roughly from
10 hours to 8 hours per day) brcught about by the Labour Standards
Law, the productivity of miner is steadily approaching the prewar
level. The improvement in the quality of coal is also noticeable.
The average calorie of ooal purchased by the National Railways rose
from 5540 calories in August last year-to 6000 calories in August
this year, thus enabling a l0% saving in coal consumption needed for
the transport of a fixed volume.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
The execution of the stabilization program has thys played a
major role in norr alizing the economy end paved. the way for entoring
the international eccnomy through the improvement ia efficiency and
the reduction of cost. However, from a long-term riewpoint of eco-
nomic rehabilitation, it should be looked with corsern that tle de-
clinging effective demand and mounting stockpiles.aused by the
sluggish export due to the transition in world marets and by the.
slash in domestic investment due to the requiremen of the stabili-.
zation program are cousing a stalemate or slight d@ecline in industrial
production.
kocent figures of foreign trade show that theactual export
since the beginning of this yeer hes kept the levu: of 45 million
dollars per month which is almost double. the amout in last yee'r..
contracts
But the amount of export in the second half of th year declined as
compared with the first half and remsins at a leel slightly above
30 million doll rs per month. As a result of th devaluation of
the pound the export contracts concluded from l& to 2oth of October
was no more than 18million dollars. With the Iguidation of su-
picion as to the yen devslustion, the alolitin of floor prices and
the implementaticn of heasures for trade promddon, such as the simpli-
ficatien of-the export and import procedures, te.future
expansion
of export can be expectcd. In vier of the fa that the fundemental.
idea of the stebilization proeram is to promote export and to acce-
lerote economic self-support by curbing domest purchasing power,
the success or failure of export expension wil have a far.reaching
effect upon the stabilizetion progrem.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.98)
The actual import since the beginning of this year has meintain
the level of about 80 million dollers per month but the recent import
contract has declined to 60 million dollars per month. The percentage
of export contrect against import contract in January through September
was 77% as compered with the 38% in the corresponding period of last
year, showing thst a good progress toward self-support has been made
in the last twelve months. The stalemate in import, however, is a
reflection of the domestic productive inactivity. In crder to achieve.
a healthy eccnomic self-support much higher export and import-levels
should be attained.
Tne domestic investrent level hes shown a sizable fall owing.to
the big slash-in c pital expenditure in this year's budget (forrail-
ways, cormnunications, public works, etc.), suspension of the financing
by the Reconstruction Finance Bank, delay in the lending of the U.S.
Aid Counterpart Fund, etc.
The construction accounts of the Nationel Railways and Tele-
communications  in this year show a declinc of 48% and 27% respective-
ly as compared with last year, if állowance' is madd of price increase.
The supply of equipment fund for private industries (excluding reserves
in companies) is estimoted at 26.9 billion yen in the first hslf of the
ear (April thr ugh September) and around 80 billion yen for the whole
yesr including the probable jarger release of the counterpart fund in
the latter half of the year, indicating a 40% decline as compered with
the preceding year.
Tne above reduction of investment had an advefse direct effect on
the capital goods industries end lowered their operational rates. and
wersened their accounts es is shoyn by the fact that the personnel
cut was severest in those industries. The public m rks expanditure
this year has been reduced to 67% (with allcwance for price changm)
of last year, On top of that, the successive damages caused by

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
weather hate necessitated the increased allocation of expenses for
their rehapilitation at the sacrifice of investment for agrieulture,
housing, city rehabilication, educational facilities, étc. Priate
housing activities have been alsc sluggish.
.The number of dweliing
houses applied for construction permit declined from the monthly
average in last year of 80,000 to 87,009 1A,April, 74,000 in May,
64,000 in June , 41,000 in July and 49,000 in August this year.
The reduction of public works expenditure and the sluggish non-Govern-
mental construction activities have hard hit the construction industry
and are causing speedy licuidation of the medium and small sized
construction contractors, in particular.
The reduction of investment, stagnation of consumption level and
 the slugish export have led to the shortage of effective demand and
to. the increase of stocks and uncollected sales proceeds. and are
giving rise to difficulties of enterprise management. The industrial
production which had risen by 41% from April last year through March
this year became stalemate from April and continued to be so until
September. In September this year the industrial activities index
(average of 1932-1936: 100, including utilities) and the industrial
production index (not including utilities) ccmriled by EsS SCAP
were 93.2 and 78.4 respectively.
With regard to the impact of the stabilization program on enter-
prises, awmoniun sulphate, oil and fats, paper industry, etc. which
hsve secure domestic market are n relatively favourable conditions
but the capital goods and export industries are suffering from the
lack of demand and sluggish sales. As a result, such industries

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
-.6 -
as are hardest hit, e.g., reilway rolling stock, -wire tele-com-
munication, motor car, etc. are slashing 20-40% of their personnel.
In spite, however, of the above. adverse condition, enterprises, parti
cularly big ones, have come out relatively unscathed and have managéd
to keep their heads above the water. This may be attributed to the
following'factors:
Firstly, in the ccurse of lest year there was a sizable increase
in production which, by raising the operational rate, reduced the
cost of production. In consequence thereof official prices turned
out to be pretty generous for efficient
producers who have succeed-
ed in accumuiating some reserve.
Secondly, bank loans were made more actively than expected.
For big enterprises,in particular, banks lent fairly liberally despite
the increasing stocks and credit. sales balance...
Thirdly, Banks and enterprises alike have expectation that
 things wili turn for the. better from next year with the expansion of
export, release of the counterpart fund, incr-ase of Government in-
vestment, etc.
In case, therefore, demand fails to increase next year there is
a'possible danger thet they collapse suddenly under the accumulated
burden. The rolling stock industry is e good example.. It is striying
to get through the adverse situation created by the drastic decrease
in demand by personnel cut, reduced wages, sub-contract from other
firms, borrowings frcm banks, etc. in the hepe that demand will in-
crease by export expansión and increased appropriation for Government
investment in next year. Should its expectation be unfulfilled it
be confronted with a sericus situation.

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
The above situation is reflected in the lendings by banks.
The apparently smooth lendings are being made chiefly for furnish-
ing commercial or operational funds to maintain stockpiles, and
financings for increesing production and modernizing production
methods are limited.
The enterprise rationalization is elso being effected-chiefly
by personnel cut, closure of unprofitable factories, reuction of
sub-contract prices to .small enterprises, etc.
There are few
cases of wholesome rationalization through modernization of eauip-
ment and induction of new technique.
As regards the medium and small sized enterprises, it cannot
be denied that the lack of effective demand and the revival of
free competition have made their position less favorable in view
of the quality of their products and their financial capacity.
Inasmuch as their employees occupy 70% of the total industriel
employees they cannot be left unattended also fron the social
standpoint.
The employment has recently been declining through the progress
of the above enterprise raticnalizstion. According to the. employ-
nent survey conducted by the Labor Ministry, the employment in July
was ty 5% less than in January. Major reductions in a period from
Japuary through July will be seen in the 9.2% for coal mining,
8:6% for machinery and tools, 9.6% for lumbering and woodwork,

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
11.2% for transportation and communications, etc. The number or
those discharged through enterprise retrenchment in August and
September increased to 5-6 times the number in the beginning of:
the, year anl the nurber of those receiving unemployment incurance
benefit has been rapidly increasing. The number of the unemployed
in the Labor/Survery is no more than 300-40o thousands. But the
Force
number of these short time workers in August this year whose weekly
working hours are less than 34 hours was 9,860,000 persons or an
increase of 4,390,000 persons over the figure a year before.
In combination with the recent increase of egricultural workers
by 2-3 millions, it demonstrats that the increase in unemployment
in Japan, through its peculiar social structure, does not appear
as such in statistics but appears as an increace in the helping
hands of farming relatives, handicraftsmen,retailers street stall
merchants, petty manufacturers, day workers, etc. depending upon
meager income.
On the other hand, the wages of general workers, as has been
explained; has stopped to rise since the beginning of this year
and real wages of them also remain stagnant.
According to the family expenditure survey, the recent average
living standard of ürban dweller has shown a slight rise as compated
with last year. The percentege which foods occupy in the family
expenditure was 62% in July-September and shows some imyrovement in
the livin standard as compared with the 66% in 1947. But the fact
that, in prewar (everage for 1934-1936) foods occupied only 35% in
the worker's amily expenditure in Tokyo shows that the present
real living standard of the majofity of people still remains, despite
the superficial improvement as seen in the streets, at a fairly low:
level. Farmers: economic conditions were relatively better than those
of city dwellers in the early postwar period, but they gradaally

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
their vantage point and are now shouldering.the onus of supporting
the unemployed who flowed from cities to villages.
We have so far made a general survey of Japan's economy since
the enforcement of the stabiltzation rrogrem ond shall hereafter
touch upon a few inportant cuestions which have to be dealt with
in proceeding tcward a self-supporting economy.
The present export level is only about
one-fourth of
what is needed for the self-support of cur economy and hos to be
rised quickly. For that purpose it is/.
that efferts be made
/necessary
for the preventi n cf inflation and for the rationalization of in-
dustries nd that the expansion of export markets for Japanese goods
-- expecialy inorease cf purchasing power in South-East Asia --
and the r=storation of foreign trade activities on equal footing
be made. The present jevel of the mining and nanufacturing product-
ion is too low in the light of the requirement for the speedy reali-
zation of economic self-surport, increase of investment, future.
iaprovement in the national living standard, etc. and has to be
raised quickly through the increese of export and domestic investment.
With regard to prices, reduction in subsidies, revaluation'of
ssets, upward revision of electricity rates, transportation charges, 
etc. have to be pade. They sre indispensable requirements for re-
moving the distertions in the centrolled economy and for prepering
the ground for free conpetition but heve the possibility of reising
official prices. In view of the difficulty, however, of raising official
prices in the fece of competitive internetienal prices and the.li-
nited purchasing power, further ationalizetion of the related enter-
priscs is required. The official prices, especially, of metals,
machinery and chemicals may heve to be raised but they are the
very items whose prices have to be lowered for competition us a r
of the pound develnarion. The necessity of rationalization w

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
10
become greater for these industries but we are approaching the
stage where we c:nnot expect more from further personnel cut or
from concentrated producticn. In view of the fact further that the
rationalization in this formule sggravates social problem by increas
ing unemployment or semi-unemplcyment, it is desired that the future
rationalization be effected by raising operational rate and moderniz-
ing techniques.
As for investment, supply of long-term fund is required. The
stabilization prograf: shifted the source of long-teru fund to security
.market and city banks by suspending the R.F.B. loans and reducing the
Government investment, while nvisaging the use of the counterpert
fund for basic industries. At the time when the private capital
acculmulating capecity is limited and the economy is fraught with many
unsteble elements and the future outlook of industries is uncertain,
it is very defficult to collect long-term fund from private scurces.
On thc other hand the eztraordinarily high rate of interest, sluggish
export and the low level of domestic purchasing power linit the chances
of profitable investrent for enterprisers, resulting in the reduction
of long-term investeent. Agriculture is in need of long-term low
interest lcans while lendings for nediur or small sized enterprises inveivo
risk and/
éntail high cost fcr lenders. Therefore banks are unwilling to
lund and they are having great difficulty in obtaining lcans.
On the cther hand there is a huge eccumulation of Government
fund consisting cf the counterpart fund, Deposit Bureau fund, remid
R.F.B. loans end their interest, etc. and is being operated for the
purchase of short-tern bonds. It will be seen, therefore, that hhe
is a room left for increasing long-term loans without cauming ir

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.98)
-11 -
and for making economic circulation smooth by adjusting the opera-
tion of the private and Government funds with the demand for them.
The living standard has slightly improved, as has been stated
above, in the past one year or two, but the real consumption level
fairly below
of city dweller: is no more than 60% of the prewar level and barely
sufficient to let then subsist. Persistence of such a low living
standard will eventually undermine the labour capacity, make it dif-
ficult to maintain and improve the level of technique and intelli-
gence and impede the development of economy.
The low living standard will reduce the domestic market and
check the expansion of export and production on sound basis. At a
time when we have to depend upon a substantial foreign aid and have
to prevent the recurrence of inflation, any attempt to improve the
living standard may not be
C.
allowed for some time to come. But in proportion as the expansion
of export is realized, it will become necessary to expand gradually
the domestic market.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
II. Progress of Eccnuuic Stabilization and Normalization
1. Recent fiscal and monetary conditions
The first cbjective of the stabilization program was to stop
the inflation rempant in the last four years by belancing the con-
solidated budgets, and the budgets for the 1949 fiscal year were for-.
mulated along this line. As a result, as shown below, the receipt
of overnment funds (both general and special accounts) more than
balanced the disbursement, leaving considerable excess in the first
half of the 1949 fiscal year.
Excess of Receipt in Government Funds
(In millions of yen)
April
- 81
July
10,946
May
-15,020
August
20,745
June
15,425
September
-2,960
Sub-total
324
Sub-total
28,731
Total
29,055
Note: 1. Resed on the Movement of Government Funds investi-
gate? by the National Treasury Bureau of the Bank of
Japen.
2. Exclusive of Deposit Bureau funds, pestal savings,
general subscription for national bonds and redemption of
shora-tern Governrent netes held by city banks.
As shown above, excess of disburserent continued up to Mey and from
June through August excess  of receipt prevailed. Although excess of
disbursement reappeared in September, the movement of Government

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
resulted in the excess of receipt amounting to 29.1 billion yen in
the period of April through September, as against the excess.of
disbursement amounting to 31.9 billion yen in the corresponding period
of the last fiscal year. This clearly indicates how well-balanced
the budgets for the present fiscal year are.
In this connection, it is noted thet in the net receipt stated
abcve is included the net receipt of approximately 15 billion yen
for the last fiscal year, that tax collection inprcved in the pre
sent fiscal year (in the first half of the present fiscal year 36.2%
of the taxes esti atel for the y ar was ccllected as compared with
26.2% in the corresponding period of the last fiscal year), trat the
prices of staple fcod were raised as early as April and that the
release of the U.S. Aid Counterpart Fund was only 18& billion, yen
(the loans to the National Ruilway,
the acceptance of construction
honds for the tele-communication enterprises. Ref. Note) while the
/and loan to private enterprise
transfer to the U.S. Aid Counterpart Fund amounted tc 46.1 billion
yen with the balance amcunting to 276 billion yen. (2.5 billion·yen
was repaid to the Bank of Japan fron the Foreign Trade Special Fund
Acccunt thpugh it was net directly connected with the net receipt of
Government funds).
Since ths Gevernrent investment ineluded in the disbursenent of
Government funds includes 1l.5 billion yen of the redemption in cash
of te R.F.B. b nds held by the Bank of Japan and 1.3 billion yenof.
the ru aymunt te the Bank of Japan from the Peoyle's Finance Bank,
tho net of receipt of Government fund is tc be increased to that ex-
tent. If, furthermofe, 10.4 billion yen, or 7.8 billion yen net
collection of R.F.P. funds plus 4.6 billion yen interest revenues of
R.F,B., neither of which is included in the net rsceipt of Government
funns stated above, minus 2 billion yen R.F.B. funds paid in tom
Government, is teken into account, the reel magnitude of.the sur

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
of Government funds raised in the first ho,f of the present fiscal
year by the naticnal finance in a broader sense becomes far greater;
thus aggravating the contraction of eurrency.
As of the end of October, the transfer to the Aid Fund
amounted to 66.702 billion yen and the release of the Aid Fun
was permitted as follows. The most of the remaining portion is
being utilized for the purchase of Government food/and no redemp-
/certificates
tion of R.F.B. bonds has so far been made.
Loan to the National Railway
10,082 million yen (budget
15,000).
Acceptance of Construction bonds for Tele-
communication Enterprise
8,281
11
11
(budget
12,000)
Loans to Private Enterprises
389
11
1n
(plan
36,433)
The above factor in the field of public finance causing the
contraction of currency was somewhat eased by.private finance.. In this
sense one of the ohjectives of the stabilization program may be said
to be in the course of attainment. That is to say, the sppply of
industrial funds in the first half of -the present fiseal year inereased
by approximately 80 billion yen or 50% (inclusive of sone duplications)
as compared with that in the corresponding period of the last fiseal
year (it is noted, however, that the prices were raised by about 50%
in the period)as is shown below.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Actual Supply of Industrial Funds
(In millions of yen)
1949 F.Y.
1948 F.Y
1st
2nd
Total
1st
2nd
Total
Quarter Quarter
Quarter Quarter
(1)Increase of Loans
of General Financial
institutions
70,757
130,000 200,757
33,120
81,173
114,293
(2)Increase of R.F.B.
Leans
-1:749
-6,042
-7,791
16,624
15,863
32,487
(3)Bond Issues
1,290
5,748
7,038
0
119
119
(4)Stock Issues
20,066
21,075
41,141
10,010
4,174
14,184
Total
90,364
150,781
241,145
59,754101,329
161,083
Note: (1) Figures for the 2nd quarter, 1949 F.Y. are esti-
mated. Other figures are based on the hctual Record of
Release and Absorption of Funds investigated by the
Bank of Jepan.
(2)
Investigated by R.F.B.
(3)
Investigated by the Inaustrial Bank of Japan.
(4)
Investigated by the Securities Exchange Commission.
Figures for 1948 F.M. show the sums paid in.

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
16
As the genoral financial institutions adopted a very tig
credit policy in the face of a great change in economic polioy
and economic conditions, money was extremely short in April
May. In and after June, however, their cautious attitude was
somewhat relaxed and financinge
became gradually more
amooth mainly on account of such monetary measures as follows.
The Bank of Japan became very positive in exercising good offices
for the arrangement of private loans as indicated in the follow-
ing table.
Loans arranged through the Good offices of the
Bank of Japan
(In M+llions of Yen)
4th Quarter
Ist Quarter
IInd Quarter
1948 FY
1949 FY
1949 FY
Equipment Fund
2,225
3,626
7,191
Working Fund
14,068
29,552
53,522
Total
16,293
33,178
60,713
Note: Investigated by the Loan Arrangement Division of
the Bank of Japan.
Furthermore the various mone tary measures put into operation in
and after June-rediscount of trade bills, relaxed application
of tho nigh interest rate to the borrowing from the Bank of Japan,
purchase of kFE bonus and national bonds in open market, expan-
ion of the stanp bill system (application thereof to the
extention of the term of stamp bills drawn for old cocoons),
preferential treatment of the fishery bill, expansion of the
limit of spocial credit for the medium and small enterprises,
reduction of the intorest rate of the city banks, relaxation of

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
17
the Fund Regulation (raising of the priority rank of the workin
funds of-wholesalers, "Tonya", persons engeging in foreign trede
and security brokers and expansion of the limit of additional
-credit for the industries of "c" priority) -were very ef.. .tive
in easing the tight-money situation.
That is to say the credit extension by the general finanoial
institutions sharply increased in snd after June in the form of
such big loans as omergoncy equipment funds, purchase funds of
imported commodities, funds for the clearanco of outstanding debts
of coal mines, the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company; etc., purchase funds of the commodities released from
the Kodans (Public Corporations), funds for the Antarctic Whale
Expedition, working funds of coal mines required following the
abolition of the Solid Fuels Distribution Kodan, etc. and of credit
extention for gradually increasing stockpiles. Remarkeble incre-
se in inventory financing in the 2nd quarter is cleerly indicated
by the fact that a considerablo amount of working fund was ex-
tended in the period to the machinery industries, the textile
Andustries exclusivo of the cotton spinning and the chemical indust-
ries such as medicines end dyestuffs in which production was stagnant.
Although this inventory financing is inevitable in tho course
of the enforcement of the stabilization program it appears to
havo apprcaohed its limit.
The collection of RFB funds sta ted in the above tarle 1ncludes.
4.l billion yen collucted from the five Distribution Kodans fo
"gricultural and forestry products which sum was financed instead
by the Deposit Bureau. Therefore, the real colleotion of RFB
fund from the industries amounts to 3.9 billion yen.
As seen in the seme tasle, debenture issue as well as stook
issue are also improving ma inly on account of such factors as
flowing of money heretofore hoarded or used for spegulatien in

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.98)
18
security market, security financing by the city banks and
encouregement of security market by the Bank of Japan(lowering
of the interest rate on the borrowing from the Bank of Japan in
security of the Industriel Dank of Japan debentures and other
deben tures of high standing and purchase of RFB bonds held by
the city banks by the Bank of Japan upon request in case they.
purchase these debentures).
The increase of capital, however, was not so smooth in
this fall cs many big increases of capital made supply of stocks
superabundant and even high standing stocks remain unsold in
the hands of security companies in considerablo amounts..
Althougr,
the supply of industrial fund was com
paratively largo as stated above, the supply of equipment funds
was nct so satisiactory as sta ted below and the enterprises are
finding it very difficult to secure their equipment funds .
because of tho suspention of operation of RFB and the delay in
the release of the US Aid Counterpart Fund.
The : ebove supply of industrial funds was mainly enabled
by such factors as the redomption of RFB bends by the Government
investment, expansion of credit by the Bank of Japan and the
increase in deposits. The redemption in cash of the RFB bonds
held by the general financial institutions by the Government
investment/amounted to 10.4 billion yen in the lst Half of the
present fiscal year while the expansion of credit by the Bank 
of Jupan ancunted to 32.4 billion yen as indicated in the follow-
ing tatle. If, however, 21.7 tillion yen of the collection of
designated depe-sits by the Government is deduoted, the above ex-
pansion of credit is rcduced to 10.7 billion yen.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.98)
-19
Expansion of Credit by tho Bank of Japan
(In millions of Yen)
Investiguted by the Ban
lst Quarter
2nd Quarter
Total
Increuso of Credit
1,771
20,865
22,636
Purchuse cf RFB Bonds
8,326
9,747
1,421
and Naticnal Lonas
Total
3,192
29,191
32,383
Designa ted Deposits
-20,400
-1,300
-21,700
27,891
10,682
-17,208
Balance
The incrcase of coneral doposits amounted to 213.5 billion yen
(19l.2 billion yen exclusive of window drossing) in the lst half of
the present fiscal yoar with 65.3 billion yen in tho lst quarter and
148.2 billion yon in tho 2nd quarter as comparod with 123.6 biilion
yen in the lst hilf of the last fiscal year. This is a good record
amounting to 85% of 250 billion yen of the saving target for the
presont fiscal year (abovo figures are partly estimated). The ratio
of timo deposits is steadily increising and the ratio of time deposits'
in the tctal rational bank duposits outanaing increased fren 17.6%
at the ond of March to 22.5% ut the end of August (66.8% at the end
of 1935). The ratio of increase of such doposits by common people as
in urban credit associatiens, "mujin" banks, post offices, postal
life insurance and postal annuities exceeds that of bank deposits.
As the principal cause for such increase of goneral deposits as
stated above the improvoment of saving propensity is to bo ncted
in addition to tho usual flowing back of the Government-funds dis-
bursed and of the private loans extended by goneral financial institu-
tions. While the oxcessive receipt of Government funds and the increndo
of goneral deposits wore substantial us soen above the increase of
private loans vas conparatively small and the issue of the Bank of
apan notes cutstanding decreassd by l4.3 billisn yen from

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20-
billion yen at the end of March to 298.2 billion yen ut the end of
However it is expected to bo oxpinded to to5 billion yun at the year
und through the paywent/octover for staple food collocted and the
/since
seasonal incrcase of fund emand at tho year and.
The monthly trond of the issue of the Bank of Jepan notes is tong
norvalized as cono: ic stabilizaticn makes progress and as séen in the
graph the trind in the pr sont fiscal year is almost similap to that:
in l930-34. However, the trend of the present fiscal year 1s charac-
terized by the fact that it continued to decrease at the .ond of June
when it takes an upward turn usually.
Issue of the Bank of Japen Notes cutstanding at
End of M:nth.
(In Billiens cf yen)
1949 FY
Averago for
1930-54 FY
Issuo outstrnding at
Indox
Index
End of Month
March
312.5
100
100
April
15.9
101.1
99.5
May
305.9
98.9
93.6
June
300.6
96.2
105.6
July
295.5
94.6
95.3
Aufust
295.6
94.6
95.9
Septerber
298.2
95.4
95.8
Octeber
306.3
98.0
98.4
November.
314.5
100.6
99.5
December
365.4
x 116.9
122.0
( ostimated by Currency Issuance Deliberation council)

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.93)
-20-2-
Frend of mote isue of ank of Jajan
%
200
1742
1948
150
1930~34
1949

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
21-
2. Price Stabilization
The rates of price rise by 6 months in the past 3 years clearlyiindl
cate the recent trend of price stabilization, reflecting the currency
situation stated above.' Especially it is noted that blackmarket prices
took a downturn.
Prlcc Rises by 6 Months in the Past 3 Years
(In Fercentage)
Sep. 1946
Mar. 1947 Sep. 1947 Mar. 1948
Sep. 1948 Mar. 1949
Feb. 1947
Sep. 1947
r.1948
Sep. 1948
Mar. 1949 S0p. 1949
Official Pri ces
Wholesale
24
170
30
98
12
10
Retail
14
83
85
84
18.
Blackmrket Prices
Producers' goods
98
84
30
13
2
-17
Consumers' goods
77
57
39
17
.7
-3
Consumer Effective Price
47
92
21
32
17
0
Note: Based on the priccs in Tokyo-to investigated by the Bank of.
Japan. With regard to those items, the official prices of
which were ebslished, their free prices were cpnsiderod.
The consumer efrective price is based n the Consumer Price
Index (All Cities) investigated by the Statistical Bureau
of the Prices Ministers' Office.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
The moathly tond of pricis in the past 6 months is as follows:
Recent Price Trend (1947 average = 100)
Mar.
Apr.
May.
Jun.
jul:
Aug.
Sep.
1949
Official
.437
Wnolesale
398
414
421
421
421
430
Retail
451
483
477
460
479
495
500
Slackmarket
Producers'goods
163
159
156
153
146
139
133
Censumers' goods
136
204
203-
202
199
195
190
Concumer Effective Price
248
248
250
241
246
247
246
Note: Based on the same data as indicated in the preceding table.
The official wholesale prices were leveled off after November last year,
as by that time the general price rovision of last year had been completed.
However, they were tgain raised by l0%: in the period of April through
September on account of the establishment of a single exchange rate and
the reduction of subsidies. That is to say, such factors as l4% rise in
staple food prices following the r vision of the parity index, 32% rise on
the avorage in the prices of 67 textile goods following the establishment
of a single exchang rate, 12% rise on the average in the prices of 25
items of fuels and 37% rise on the average in the prices of 10 iteme of
metals, ccused tais l0% rise.
The blackmarket prices of producers' goods took a downturn after a peak
ia February and continued to drop ever -since. Thus they dropped by 19%
in the past 7 months to the level of November 1947. As seen in the above

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.97)
- 23 -
table they fell by 17% in the.past half year &nd the prices of principal
25 commoditics with the exception of 4 commodities such as gasoline and.
others dropped considerably; 52% for causitic soda, more than 30% for other
7 commodities and about l0% for all other commodities. It is notad that
a decline is especially conspicuous with regard to construction materials
and those items affected by sluggish export. It is also noted that the
prices of those items acpendent on importation which had been rather
strong up to the compiratively recent time are showing a sign of deoline
or taking a downward trend definitely.
 The blackmarket priccs of consumers' goods took a downturn in and
a ter April :nd continued to arop. Thus they dropped by 7% up to Septem-
ter. In the half year from March to Septomber (3% drop on the average)
the prices of fucls, influcnced by scisonal factors, dropped 30%, und the
prices and staple food and toxtile goods declined 20% and l0-20% respeo-
tively, thus intensifying the guneral trend of decline. But, as the free
prices of vegetablc and fruit were approximately doubled in this period,
the average rate of decline rom ined comparatively small. It is noted,
however, that a sign of ducline appeered in the prices of vegetable and
fruit In and afterAugust  nd it is expected thet their priccs will drop
as thoir shipment increaaos.
The free prices of those items, the official retail prices of which
were abolished, have been stabilized since harch this year witn the
oxception of vegetable and fruit.
The consumer cfective price has been stabilized since April this
year with the rise in official prices having been cancellcd out with the.
drop in blackmarket prices.
In the half year from march to September the lighting and heating
expenses wero raised by 6% mainly on account of the rise in gas charges
while the miscellancous expenscs rose by lo% on account of suoh factors

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.96)
-24 -
as the upward revision of passenger fares, etc. In the meantime the price.
of staple food dropped by l% (the upward revision of staple food price was
more than cancelled jut by the irop of blackmerket staple food price) while
the expenses of auxiliary food and clothing dropped respeotively by 3% and
by 6% through the i. crease of ra tion and the drop of blackmarkot or free.
prices. Thus the overall consumer effective price romined at the. same
lovel.
In parallel with the stabilized price level steted above, the rising
trend of national av rage wages (in manufacturing) wes promptly arrested,
thus ending a vicious spiral betweon prices and wages.
While a slightly upward trund of official prices through the adjustment
of domestic prices following the establishment of a single exchango rate
and the reduotion of subsidies is scon (this mey be said to be & process
of aormalization of price structure), a downward trend of blackmarkat or
froe priccs and tih roulting adjustment of blackmerket prices to official
pricee are conspicuons. Thus in the trend of prices since April this year
is clearly seen ths e fect of the stabilization program.
3. Normalization of economy.
Stabilization anl normalization of economy has been reflected on
which are main ecsn mic indices and the price structure is being rapidly
reorganized. This movement may be sgen from the fact that the price struc-
ture is approaching that in the world ma ket and that the gap between the
blackimrket and official prices is dwindling or in other words dual price
etructure is diminishing.
The establishment of a single exchange rate has rapidly brought the
prices of oxport g ods in line with the internetional prices. Tne maximum
price ratio was brought down to 450 yen on 15 February ad to 425 yen on

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.97)
-25
1 Ayril. After such pr-liminary changes taking place in quick suoces-
sion, the ratc was unlformly set at 360 yen per dollar on 25 April. Same
businesses were saying that it would not pay unless the rate were 5oo yen
or 6o0 yen per dollar but they wore compelled to lower cost of productlon
to meet these changes. Since tnen, the contact of our economy with the
internatiunal economy calls for constant comparison of the internal with
the international prices.  The rouction of subsl ies is now being con-
templated. Tncse factors are accclerating the reorganization of the
price structurer
How are subsluies bcing reduced? In the beginning of the current
fiscal year, the buugetary bill included loo.2 billisn yen of "price
stabilization band" goois subsidies, 15 billion yen of the same carriad
over from. the prec ding yeer, 83.3 billion yen of import subsidies and
3.7 billion yen of. salt price subsidies totalling 202.2 billion gen or
29% of the guneral budget. Stnce then, there arose many factors enabling.
the reduction of subsidies such as discontinuation of price control on
aluminum, coal ani coyper, fall in production or import, fall in c.i.f.
doller prices, tc. Moreover, reduction of subsidies has come to be
atrongly deninded by the public finance as means of reducing tax burden.
I us, in the mijdle of Suptember six months after the formulation of the
budget, it was decicci t: out the total subsidies for the current fiscel.
yoar by 17% or 35 billion yen, discontinuing import subsidies on miscell-
azocus items:
The breakdown of subsidies reduction is expedted to be roughly as
follows (: thcre may be some changes in the future.)

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.95)
-26-
Breakdown of subsidies cut.
(in billion yen)
L. Cut in subalias far ctbiization band goods..
1) Iron and steel
14.8
2)
Gss, coke and bunker coal
6.15
3)
Soda
0.9
4)
Fertilizer
2.6
5)
Copper
1.4
Total
20.85
2. Cut in import subsidies.
1) Discontinuation of subsidies on
iscsllaneous items
2)
Decrese In volame of import
6.65
1.6
3}
Price-raiac of impo-t i firtulizce
1.8
47 Full in Jeilar prices
7.5
Total
X
3. Cut in reserve
24.0
1f Total out
45.5
2 Transfer
-10.5
Total
35.0
- rnncd to be trans-
rement of import subsidios augmented over the original budget based on-
330 yen per dollar rate as a rcsult of establsihment of 360 yen rate.
Tho subsiajes for stabilization band goods lncreased to llo.7 billion
yen. The net cut is therefore 45.5 billion yen. Cut in imported coal
subsidies as: from January next year is now belng diacussed: In JFY
1950, subsidies are expected to be given only cn imported food iron and

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.95)
-26 -
Breakdown of subsidies out.
(in billion yen)
l. Cut Lo subaleias far ct bilization band goods..
1) Iron and steel
14.8
2)
Gss, coke and bunker coal
6.15
3)
Soda
0.9
4) Fertilizer
5) Copper
2.6
1.4
Total
20.85
2. Cut in import subsidies.
1) Discontinuation of subsidies on
ise.lleneous items
2)
Decrese in volane of import
6.65
1.8
3)
Price-raisc of impo-ti ferulizer
1.1
47 Fall in Jetiar prices
7.5,
Total
3. Cut in reserve
24.0
if Total cut
45.5
2 Transfer
-10.5
Total
35.0
2
i nd to be trans-
rement of import subsidios augmented over the jriginal budget based on-
330 yen per dollar rate'as a result of establsihment of 360 yen rate.
The subslajes for stabilization band goods lucreased to llo.7 billion
yen. The net cut 1s therefore 45.5 billion yen. Cut in imported coal
subsidies as: from January next yeur is now being discussed; Ip JFY
195o, subsidies are expeoted to be given only cn imported food iron and
stcul, fertilizer, and soda including raw materlals for the last taree
itus. the total amount redically falling to B2 5 billlon yen.

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
Cut in subsidies üesigned to achieve a number of objectives such
as acceleration of business rationalization, switch-over from produotion
cost formule to market price formula, etc. has had the below indicated.
effect on bringing thg price structure in line witn the international
price structure, while the situation is complicated by the fact that
the official prices have riscn while prurenasing power is declining.
Comparison betweon Japanese and American price level
Item Pig Iron
Steel bar
Electroly
Alúminúm
Ammonium
Caustic Cotton
(for steel)
(19 mm)
tic Copper
sulphate
goda
Unit
ton
ton
ton
ton
ton
ton
100 1bs.
Amorican ,.?
murket16,527
26,640
129,632
134,884
17,280
20,000
21,600
price (in (100)
(100)
(100)
(100)
(100)
(100)
(100)
yen)
Domestic producer price
pr.
12,420
17,660
181,060
175,000
17,335
4.31,400 14,060
(75.1)
(66.3)
(139.9)
(130)
(103.3)
(157.0) (45.1)
B.29,000
(145.0)
Oct.
1,000
20,700
20,261
A.38,310 15,272
(102.9)
(77.7)
(117.3)
(191.6) (71)
E.34,570 2/
(172.9)=
Domestic consumer price
∴pr.
3,600
10.120
102,140
:155,00
11,126
110,856 14,552
(21.8)
138.01
(78.8)
(115)
(64.4)
(104.3) (67.4)
Oct.
8,200
13,760
78,000
(49.6)
(51.7)
(60.2) 1/
130,000
12,794
30,000
16,031
(96)
(74.0)
(150.0)
(74)
Black-market price in Tokyo
A pr.
7,600
11,760
90,000.
106,600
42,000
95,000
(46)
(44.1)
(69)
(517)
(210,0) (439,8)
Uct.
7,500
13,000
256.
101,330
24,300 50,000
(45.4)
(48.8)
(586.)
(121.5) (231)

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.94)
-28 -
Note:
1!
small transactions.
21
A = Ammonium soda process.
E = Elcctrilytic process.
The movement of prices during the six months period since April this
year is as follows: the Iroducer and cshsumer price of iron and steel
rose romarkably, apiro:ching the international level,while the prices of
coal and clectrolytic copper fell and approached the Americen price levef
Moreover, official rent n houses was recently raised and electricity
rute and freight charges are expected to be revised. This movement can
be s:id t, indicate the roturn of the internal price structure to the
pre-war pattern  nd, in the final alalysis, bring it nearer to the inter-
nati onal levul. The fact that cut in subsidies removed the prices of
ammonium sul phatc, c ustic soda, etc. further from the American level
can be acepunt er by the fact tuat the prices of major raw materials
lor vhese ttem sten us csal and imported suIt are extremely high
comp rea wi tn iao international level. This will remain one of the
problums to o  neidored not nly in cutting subsidies in particular
bus aio in briaging the domestic prices in line with the international
priecs.
is indicated in the above table, the gap between the official and
balek market prices was groatly narrowed during the same period, which
is another phase of ccunoie nornalization. As explained above, this
trend has recuntly t en ccelerated not only by the rise of the official
prices but alse by the fall of the black market prices.

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
Ratio of black merket and free prices to official prloes.
(Survey by the Bank of Jasan)
Mer.
Apr. May.
Jun. Jul. ug. Sept.
Sept. Sept.
49.
49.
49.
49.
49.
48.
47
Froducer goods
2.8
2.7
2.6
2.5
2.4
2.1
~20 .8.9 .19.1
Consumer goods
2.8
2.6
2.6
2.6
2.5
2.3
-2.1
3.5
8.1
Note: Producer goods = average of 25 commodities.
Cinsumer gcods = average of 50 commodities.
This situation is being reflected upon price control which is rapialy
narrowed in coverage. 64,506 items. (subclassification) were under price
control in April this year. But they rapidly decreased month after month
and items placed off control up to the end of September totalled 26, 023
or 40% of the total. Decontrolling is expected to continue also in the
fuburo.
Distribution control is also being narrowed in coverage. There were
284 designated production materials in April this year. Since then 148
items have been decentrolled, used copper and 19 other items being the
the first, and coal and coke being the last to be decontrolled. Control
is still maintained on 136 items. In the near.future, however, 'more items
may be decontrolled loaving basic and impurted materials. Rationing
control on cunsumer gosds govered 70 items at first. But 39 itcms includ-.
Ing fruit and vegutables ha been decontrolled, leaving 31 items including
staple food and textile gonds. Along with relaxation of cortril, method
of control has been modified. Consumers selectfon; returned coupon system.
advance order sytem otc. leaving greater room for free csmpetition have
been adopted. Moreover, to cope wi th the lack of purchasing power,

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.96)
- 30 -
measures have been taken to relax control on small-lot demand for Iro
and steel, caustio soda, cement, plate glass etc.
4s a result of tnis changing situation, the Kodans which- are suo
cessors to the war-time control organizations were grandually aboliehed.
Of. 15 kodans, ive Kodans including the Soild Fuel Distribution Kadan
have already been abolished. It is moreover planned to abolish 3 Kodand
and consolidate kodans int n loaving only five Kodans.
Control is being gralually relaxed also in other fields sach as
transportation and creit. Ine question now diseussed is not what to
decontrol but what control to mintain. The basis of free economy
besed on the principle of producers competition and consumers choice
is being gradually enlarged.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
Some prcgress in rutionalization of onterprises
The slowing down of inflation toward the latter part. of last yoan
has urged enterprises to gradually tighten their locst manegnent. Vario
new circunstances of this year, such as cessation of inflation, shift
from sellers' market to buyers' morket due to the widenine of frée
econy, estutlishnent of the single exchange rate, reduction of
subsidy, and dovaluatien of pound, tc., huva furced enterprisors to
improve the quality of their preducts anu reduce their costs of pre-
duction. Soricus efforts for the raticnalization of cnterprises have
2
thus achieved c'nsidoraple results, und tho objoctive of the sconemic
stabilization prcrram was attained to a cortain cxtent. Following
are some oxamples set cnt in itens.
a. Imprevevent in quality
Matorials
Unit
Pre-war
1948
1949
Rorarks
Coal
Calcrio (1940)
(average)
(July)
National Avorago
5,986
5,685
5,69
Calciun
Nitrogen
23.0% (") 18.2%
(August)
cyanaride
content
20.8%
Pulp
Alpha .Ccllulose - (") e9.5
(Jan-Aug)
One cc.:pary
centunt
90.6
The leprevei quality of coal rondored possiblo the oconory of
coal ccusumptien. For exarmplo, the Nati nal Railvav, using average
6,o00 ce loriu coul in August this yeur, transported 91% of the man/
ton/vilumoters f August last year with cnly 84% of c5al consumption
for the latter poriod whon the coal was of average 5,540 calories. This
is an average 400,000 tons (roughly equivelent of Natienal Railway con-
sumption in August this yonr) econcny of coal per yoar. Again, im-
provenont in quality of a certain product contributos to the reduction of
its anount consuued per unit of secondary products manufacturod from it.

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.94)
Roduction in the amount of mterials abscrd per
products.
Preduèts
Materials Prs-war
1948
1949
Rowarks
Cement (per ton) Coa1 (1940) 320 kg (average)
(July)
Netiona1
427
380-410
Fire brick (") 2 kg (") 5.5
(") 4.5
n
Lubr1cat- (") 0.21 1 (*)0.42
(") 0.3
ing cil
Shest glass
Coel
(1939) 85 kg (July)
(") 80
Average for 5
(per case).
107 kg
plants of 2 com
panies
Srdu 1sh (") 9.4 kg (") 9.7 (") 9.4
n
Iren (per ton)
Coko (1942) 1.0 ton 1.13
1.04
Naticnal average
Suda ash
Coke
( ")0.16 ton (1947
0.25
(per ton)
average)
0.34
Electric (") 330 dvti (") 485
450
n
power
Slt
(") 1.70 ton (") 2.0.
1.70
11
It is ussunca that in acditicn to the improve ent in the cuality
of ray ratorials and intensive utilization there f; the riso of opera-
tion rate has ccntributed  groet deal to the reduction in the amcunt of
ma terials censumed per unit of preducts. The fact cannot be disregarded.
oither that materials werc censuned often in smallor ameunt than their
indicated amount around 1948 owing to mixtures, loss in resl contents,
etc.
c. Inprovement in labor produotivity
Matorials
Unit
. Pra-war
1948
1949
Rerarks
Coal
mouthly(1935)
(april)
(Ju1y).
Naticnal avorage
prcduction
17.6 tons
5.8
7.8
per miner
(all miners)
籍
Daily pro- (") 2.14 tens (July) (July)
duction por
1.44
1567
face miner

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.92)
- 33-
(Sept)
(June) A copany
Cepper ore
Monthly pre- (1940)
14.9 tons 8.7
11.7
duction per
worker
Alumina
Daily produc- 355 kg (avorage) (aug)
178
258
tion per d1-
rect worker
(Aug)
lational average
Crude Steel
Nonthly prc- (1941) (Aug)
duction per
2.8 tons
1.0
1.7
workor
(") 431 1b. (") 557
Cotton yurn
11
66 Iatiunal average
(1935) (") 54
Sheut class' Menthl, pro-
duction per
135 cases
empleyes
Ronthly pre- (lual)
0.159
0.207 A ny
arile
duction of
0.279
stanaard model
cor per wurler
(Juno)
Averago for two
Shiptutllirr welaor por ur - (Sept)
99.5
105
co:panies
per welle
n.
- (") 11.7 (") 14.2
li
Keil ne per hour
per nuiler
Note:
Ihe a unt ef entily cr c:ily production dopends to con-
eidoreble extont on the nwaber of aily working bours.and
ther fuctors. The pest-war cecline in laber productivity
shown abrve is 1 rgely duo to unese ractors, as will be
explined in the text.
The prprovenent in laber prouctivity is evicent ant ouulixied in
many instanecs. int is in rost cuses puprove ont us rereris labor
pr  etivits n treee sonee,  lyo aront ut r eete n per werker.
Pe recent a. pr ver oet o i  or p ouctivity pu this sonse has laraely
boen attano tr u e rio n porubion r to rosultant from cen-
centratirn cf pr cuetion, utc. and the elivination of excessive eployment.
Tro current lovel cf laber producti vity is still very low as compared
vi. tho pre-ver lovul. Such shrinkage is luo, it is assuned, to the low-
cirg or operaticn rate, shortening of werking hours aftor the offoctua-
tion f the Liber Stanlard Luw (roughly 10 hours to 8 bours), wear and
tuur of ouuimment und inferier quality of : aterials, doteretion of
natural cond,ticns such as seen in coal mining in deoper pits, etc., rather
than to tho full in the luhor produc tivity in narrow sense, such as dogred
-  n an skill and doterior:tion of will to work.

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.95)
- 34 -
d.
Normuliz.tion of employuont structuro
Brunch
Job
Pre-war
1948
1949
Revarks
Coal
All runors
(Juno 1935)
(Apr11)
(July) National average
Undorground
73.2%
55.3
58.6
Surfuce
26.8%
44.7
41.4
Shoot €lass
All eimploycos
(1955)
Oporatives
90%
82
83.5
Officials
10%
18
16.5
Rolling
Opera tivos
(1935)
À company
tock
Diroct epcra- 85.5%
56.3
65.6
tivos
Indirect
14.5%
43.7
34.4
opertatives
The normalization of o ploymont stru ture is not vory ovilent
b canse of spcciul cireu'st.ntes af ter the war, such as the lowered
operatin rete fir oxarple and of the difficulties in changine jeba.
Novertreloes, it vay be cbserved fren a couparison of this yeer with
last vear that the percentages ef factery workers and airect uporatives
hayo grudually incrcased in cuntr.et to those of efficials and indirect
oporatives. it is true thit tue prospoctive xtensive curtailmont of 
contrel will r ndor th se wloyocs whe ve been engaga in businoss
is-a-vis the v rm unt uyoneies no longer neccssery, but there will not
bo reat change in the onployrant atructure s manufacturers will
h.ve to expand thoir wn solling corgunization in future.
o. Nerux lization .f ccst structure
The ccat strueture uf tho post-war onturprises is quito bnerasl
us coupared with thit of pre-war, in timt tie cost of luber for uxerple
has extremuly expnicd nd tiat of acpreciati n beon reduced. Tho
increuso in the cost  f Laber is duo to such factors as the lowored

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.93)
-35 -
oporation rate, excossive smployrment, an it has placed the anagemant
of enterprises at great disadvantago, Norialization in this respect
ny take scme time to be realized. The cost f labor, however, has
generally decrecsed, though sli ntly, since last year. In coal, mining.
for instance, the cost of lalcr orcupied 60.1% of the total costs for
coel pr duction in.tho natienal averege in the fermer half of last
your, wrile the corresponding percentago for the period fron April to
Junc this year. wes, 55.1%(34,3% in 1940). Tho 3rcentuge of the cost
of lucor in tha total productin costs in a certain ocppor mine deelined.
frer. S4% in Septesmer lust yeur to 46% in June this yoar. Though
actusl cest fiyures are not available for the iren and steel'industry,
the atu for tre culeulatiin of official prices indicate that the per-
contuge of the w rkine costs (costs of labor anl other expenditures for
cporat on) ras declined fre 27.6% in June last yoor to 24.3% in September
this yeur in the cuse of ircn and from 23. 4% in Soptember last yoar to
19.6% in September this year in the case steel bar.
f. Roductien cf costs
The varaous tpprccches to ro tionalization as are cvilonced in b
to e tbove ul. ultinately at the reduction of the costs of prodnction,
anl it is asaurod tnat all entarprises have aelioved . re  r lecs results
in thoir cff rts t this al. I r exsmple, tho nati nal averuse c. st
i preductirn cf coal wont  vn rr.m ¥2, 968 in January to 2, 591 in
June cis yeur,  13x ruauetin in hulr a year. In particular, in the
Yu myuchi reu centering arouni Ube coal vine, the reductien was strik-
1ng, to pr:dueti n costs caving declived frem 2,746 in Felruary to
v2,338 in Apral an! t. Y2,291 in June. The recent averago cost of
proavetien fer .11 l: lass rukers is about l0% loss as corpared with
a year aso. The aluninu: industry has curtailed its prioe by
20% in spite of the abolition of tho subsidy on bauxite and the rise in
wagos.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.97)
-36 -
The rationalization of enterprises has made headway, as. aeen b
as the stabilization program progressed. However, it has so far been
achieved mainly through such measures as elimination of excessive emplo
concentration of productin, cutting down of purchase prices of produot
of med:um and small sub-contractors, etc., but scarecely through such
fundamental means of rationalization as modernization of equipmont,
introduction of new techniquo, etc. More often, enterprises are endeavor
ing to improve their imaediate financial status, at the sacrifice of
their future competitive power, by sparing repair and maintenance of.
existing equipment and closing or reducing research and experiment institu
tes. On the other hand, the current rationalization has entailed vari-
ous social problems by reducing employment and increasing unemployment
r art-time employment.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
-87-
III. Stagnation of economic rehabilitation
1. Slump of foreign trade
Foreign trade is an indispensable mainstay of the economic rehmbs
tation program in that the basic idea of the program is to maximize expo
restraining domestic consumption and urging export, thereby induoing.rehn
bilitation and self-support of the national economy. Much depends, ther
fore, on the export, and it has been the fcous of attention of the pation
The state of foreign trade is reviewed in the following pages.
a. Current state of export
The amount of export (in dollars) has been gradually increasing since
the beginning of the year up to the month of May, as seen in the followin
table, reflecting the increase in the amount of export contracts prior to
the establishment of the single exchange rate. Although the export has
gradually fallen from the peak of 7 million dollars in May to 41 million
dollars in September, the total from JanuarySeptember was 408 million
/through
dollars, the monthly average (45.4 million dollars) being 2.1 times as
much as that of the preceding year of 2l.6 million dollars.
Amount of Exports
Months
In dollar
In yen
($ 1,000)
(¥1,000,000)
January 1949
37,121
11,453
February
36,962
10,998.
March
45,776
13,876
April
44,837
13,90
May
57,081
17,975
June
56,709
14,453
July
47,048
15,464
August
42,146
14,224
September
40,559
14,703

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.98)
- 38 -
Note: 1. Dollar price: Economic and Scientific Section 
SCAP (July/being estimate).
/and troreafter
2. Yen price: Taxation Bureau, Ministry of Finance
(July and thereafter being tentative).
The problam, however, lies in the changes in the amcunt of recent
export contracts. While the export contracts reached in the first four
months of the year us much as 240 million dollars, or 93% of the total
for the precedint yeur, on account of the prospect of the esteblishment
of a sin le exchar e r te and somo speculations, they fell down to
25. million dollcrs in the month of May inmediately after the establish-
ront of the exchange rite. Although the contracts restored 35 million
dollar level in the months of June, July and August, the trend is still
downward. The increaso to 42 million dollars in September was due to such
temporary factrs as the prospect of the devaluation of pound and con-
tract approval carried forward (Even after the devaluation of pound,
contracts with the sterling area which had been agreed to were allowed
to be made at the old pound-yen rate during the month of September.).
Thus the contracts in the month of October (1st-20th) were only'18
million dollars, reflecting the offect of the pound devaluation and the
insecurity of the current yen rate. The impact of sucn shrinkage of
uxport contracts will appeur with tne time lug of two to three months
and that with seme rednced figures due to cancellations, etc.
Arount of Expert Contracts (Private and Government)
Yonths
In dollar
($ 1,000)
January.1949
111,304
February
40,753
March
43,267
April
45,083
May
24,881

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
-39-
June
38,833
July
33,422
August
32,244
September
41,785
October (1st-20th)
18,088
Note:
Data: International Trede Rescarch Section, Ministry
of intornational Trade and Industry (Export Section
uf tor hugust).
The followins table shovs the changos in export contracts
by comodities..
Expert contracts by Conmoditios ($1,o0o)
Monthly
avurage for
May
Juno
July
Aug. Sopt.
Oct.
Feb.-Λpr.
(1st-20th)
1949
Toxtilos
16,451
15,805
20,656
13,623 1,77815,286
7,295
Mac: inery & mo tals
12,715
4,824
9,871
11,047 10,420
16,837
5,456
Chomical preducts
1,121
66
82
139
141
98
55
Agricultural, rorestry
and murine products 3,0=9
2,207
ε,960
3,716
3,936
4,449
1,858
Miscellenoous cods
9,306
2,649
5,14/.5,224
3,961
4,815
8,424
Total
2625
25,829
39,736
23,748 32,244
41,765 -16,088
Natc:
Data: xport Sectien, Ministry of International Trado
ard industry.
That the figures of the Total for the months of May, June
and July differ from those in the "Amount of Export Con-
tracts" above is because they are based on different
ources.

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
-40 -
Comparing the February-april period proceding tho establishmontpor
the exchange rate with thereut tor, cricultural, forostry and marine
products show sto..dy increase of 30% and mchinery and metals some
recovery, but all tho rest of comnodities remain in slump, toxtile
preducts rormining ut 60 to.90% 1evel, miscollaneous goods at 50%,
and chemical proiucts which once dropped to 10% t less than 40%.
The establishment of the single exchange re te may have diaturbed
the export of those comoditios whose yon rate was weak, but generally
spoaking,it has not buen a very serious disturbance to export, the costs
of production having been reduced to a considerable extent in the
current yeur partly as a result of the shrinkage of domestic purchas-
ing power. As a ratt. of fact, the export of some of the formerly
strong yon-rate commojities, such as rayon staple, yarns, caustic soda,
etc. has oropped, whil the cxport of such formerly weak yen-rato commo-
dities as corttunicetion machinery, bicycles und parts, china-ware and
porcolain, celluloid products, otc. hus steadily been increasing and
that of papers, ruober preducts une toys has shown romarkuhle increese.

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.87)
-x0=2-
Export Value &
Contract Number
50
Bmillion Leollars
1949 contrect
yo
60
1949
50
x0
30
aosh
1747
Stac

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.97)
-41-
-The emount of contract cancellations during the two monthe 
diately af ter the establishment of the single exckange rate was equi
valent of the total cancellations since the opening of privatè trade
up to the establishment of the exchange rate in April. The increase
was ten-folds in tho monthly average, and most of the cancellations
were deemed to bo caused by the fall in prices in foreign market.
There is no doubt that such cancellations rendered serious blow to
the export industry. As sta ted bei'ore, enterprises have co..siderably.
cdapted themselves to the new cxchange rate thrcugh rationalization,
but the quality of export commoditics is stil to be much improved.
Out of some 33 million dollars worth of claims made since the ond of
the war up to September this year, 77% of which is still unsettled,
about ono half was on account of inforiority in quality. Such
inferiority in quality whieh is cuused by the wear and tear of
j
equipment, lowering in the level of tecnnique ana skill, inferiority
of produc tion meturials, te. is no Icss surious a distur ancc to
export than the lack of adaptability to taste and likings of foreign
customers caused by the ignorence of foreign market situa tion under
the "blind trade". Unier such insecure state of exports, oxport
financing is not necossarily easy. As to the financing through the
foreign trade bill, the most predominant form of export financing,
the ratio of the amount of these ills rediscounted by the Bank'of
Japan to the anount certified by the Governmont declined from 60%
during last yuar to forties purcent in the current year, consti
tuting another factor in the oxport slump. There is much to count on
the functioning of the export financing compensation system which
is expected to be effuctuated in the noar future.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.97)
.  42 -
In addition to the aforementioned obstacles to export on the
domestic side, there are other obstacles of foreign origin.which
should not be overlooked. The foreign market competition has been
intensified on account of the slump in world market lead by the
American sconomy, shift from "sellers' market" to "buyers' market
induced by the economic recovery of European countries, import restri-
ctions of various countries necessiteted by the shortage of dollar,
political and economic unrest in Asia, and so forth. The impart. of su
deterioration of foreign market is all the more serious for Japan
on acccunt of hor randicaps in competition, such as the absence of
indepenuence in forcign trade, lack of means to adapt herself to forei
market, complication of trade procedures. The devaluation of pound on
18 September and'suosequent similar steps taken in other areas added
further difficulties to the export trade. The amount of export con-
trects concluded be twoen the storling area for the period from 19
Septembor to 16 Octo or was only 1.2 million dollars, or 8% of the
monthly average of 15.4 million dollars for the period from May to
August. The export to the sterling aree which occupied 45% of the tote1
export during the latter four month period dropped to 4% in the 19
September to 16 October period. Such remarkable shrinkage in the export
to the sterling areu is, of cource, an irmediate reaction to the pound
devaluation, and tie oxport contracts with the pound area during the
period irom 1st to 25th of Octoner hus restored to-2.5 million dollare
Tho futurt changes, thercfore, call for careful attontion.
b. Current state of iport
The following table shows the current state of import.

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.98)
-43-
Amount of Imports and Import Contracts
Amount of imports
Month
Amount of
contrects
In dollar
In yen
($ 1,000)
(年1,000)
(¥ 1,000,000)
January 1949
73,552
6,571
72,131
February
65,415
9,772
55,710
March
68,496
11,010
38,024
April
74,710
14,821
97,542
Muy
96,945
22,331
52,738
June
105,875
27,610
52,299
July
86,€2z
33,910
43,657
August
73,344
33,133
84,708
Septomber
29,66C
39,905
Noto: Data:
Amount of imports in dollar: Economic and
Scientiric Section, GHQ, SCAP.(July and
thereaf tor ouing estima tc).
Amount oi imports in yen: Taxution Buroau,
Ministry of Finance (July and thercaftor
beins tentytive).
Amount of import contracts: International
Trade Rosoarch Section, Ministry of
International Trado and Industry.
The amount of irports from January through August was 665 hillion
dollars, the monthly verago (83.1 million dollars) boing 46% more than
thit of the proceding year of 56.9 million dollars, during which period
the amount is falling aftor tio pouk in June. The amount of import

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.94)
-44-
contracts from Januery throuyh Soptember was s37 million dollsrs (on
average being 60 mi llion dollars), which is considoruoly small in the
light of the inport poul of 80 million dollars (monthly averuge being
74 million dollars). Such jecrerse in the umount of import contracts
indica tes lowerin of thc umount of anports in future.
The amcunt of pmport cor tracts for the nine month period is 1.3
tires s much as that of 412 rillion export contracts for the same
/acl1ars
period. It can be said that the balance of trade has turned to our
.favor as the import contracts vere 2.6 times as much as export con-
tracts during last year, but such iuprovement does not necessarily
moan that the indopondenco of the national ecenomy has thet much been
promoted. .Ruther, when tho tctal exports are, in real teris, not moro
thun 20% of the pre-war exports and our industrial structure is such
that all or substartial pprtion of supply of such essential : aterials
as cetton, wool, iron ore, high cokin, coul, focdstuffs, pstroleum, etc.
depoods. on irport, the s tagna tion of iapert at such level is mothing
cut a ref lection of the recent shrinkage of purchasing power and slump
in preduction activitics. The fact thet the import stockpiles which
have no prospoct of tisposition in the near futuro amounted to ao much
as %.l billicn yon t the snd of Juno this yoar attests to the aroremon-
tioned situution.  reover, tho Government trade system has been one
of the aistur cing f ctors for import in that prices, kinds and quanti-
tios it conmedities is well is timing und markot of purchiso cunnot
 ton to pprepriute nder it, bt toe satoasion of the priveto trado
sy. a is spected soon to vlirin te tnoso difriculties.
Ioe geuoral st to of forui n trede hes net teken a fevourable
turn as etated utove, the export la ins crme to decline and the import
showing signs of shrink:ge. Such slump in foreign trade has toen at
ence can s and offe ct. of the pecont stagnution of production activities
and has delaved tho tompo f progross toward cccnemic reha talitation
and self-support of tho nati nal cconomy.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.97)
- 45 -,
2. Decrease of Iavestment
Decreased supply in eguipment funds due to the curtailment of constru
.tion expenditures (for National Rullway and Tole-communications and for
public works) in thc budgets for the present fiscal year and suspension
of RFB loans, counterbalunced neither by the Aju Counterpart Fund, the roleas
of which for industrial investment was so delayed, nor by equlpment funde.
which the general financial institutions could afford-to provide oaly in.
limited anount, are inviting the accumulation of inventories and the stag
nation or lowering of production in the industries manufacturing capital
.goods.
m . Industrial Inveatment.
The budget for Nationml Railway construction for the present
fiscal year is 16.5 billion yon or about 48% decrease as against 21.3
billion yen for the last fiscal yar if the price rise in the period
were considcred while the budgetfor Tele-communication construction for
the present fiscul yr is 19.2 billion yen or 27% decrease in substance-
as against 17.6 billion yen for the last fiscal year. The amount of.
materials required for Raiäway construction for the present fiscal year
is 5.5 billion yen or 47% in substance of 7 billion yen for the last
fiseal year, while the expenses for rolling stack for the present
fisoal jear is no more than 4.3 billion yen or 48% in substance of
6.3 billion yen actually expended in the last fiscal year. The total
sum of orders for wired communication apparatus included in the
budget for the present fiseal year is 2.8 billion yen or 23% decrease
as against the record in the last fiscal year( 3.6. billion yen in terms
of thc prices in the present fiscal year.).
The reduction in construction of National Railway and Tele-comm-
unications as stated above not only retarded the improvement of. trans-
portation and communication equipmcnt but also affected the relatea

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.95)
- 46 -
industries greatly. As statcd below the industries acufacturing ratlma
rolling atock and wired communicati on apparatus. were forced to reduce
their durrent production, to carry out reduction of tho size of plante
or shutting down of some plants, nd cut in persoanel, reperouesions of
which have reached such industries as electric wire, copper and machine
too1.
Furthermore private cguipment investae nt, greatly affeoted by the
suspension of operation  RFB which accommodated approximtely 60% of
the total equipment funds loaned in the 1948 fiscal year and the dalay
In the operation of thc Aiu Fund, sharply decreased in the lst half of
the present fiscal year. Thus sucn industries as electricity, coal,
chemical fertilizer, shipbuilding greutly dependent on RFB heretofore
were most severly affucted. For example, the supply of equipment funds
for coal mines decruased sharply from 10.2 billion yen (RFB loans only)
Ia the 1st half of the 1948 fiscal yair to about 1.7 billion gen in the
lat helf of the prusunt fiseel year, thus arfecting the related industries
greatly through the ducreas of orders for n chinery and materials for
coal mines, while that for cluctricity decrcased from 4.8 billion yen in
the 4th quarter of the last fiseal year to 2.5 billion yen in the 1st
quarter of the presunt fisc..l year, tnus bringing about a great hitch
in the maintenance and improvomont construction.
11.4
Wail  billion yun of cquipment unds was supplied from RFB.in
the 1948 fiscal ycar for shipbuilding, only about 900 million yen was
supplied from city brnks (in ajiuio. 229 milllon yen for the increase
of capital in shipping industries) in the lst quarter of the present
fiscal year. Listly, for cuemicul fertilizer about 5 billion yen of
equipment funds (2 biilion yon from RFB and. the remainder from general
financial lnstituti ons ilusive of capital incrcase) were aceommodated
in the last fisca! year.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
-47-
But in the lst quarter of the present fiscal year not much oredit
extension, capital increase or debenture issue was made.
Thus, as indicated in the following ta le, the estimated supply of
equipment funds (exclusive of the supply of equipment funds from corporate
reserves) in the lst half of the prosent fiscal year is decreased from
38.3 billion yen in the corresponding period of the last fiscal year to
26.9 billion yen or 70% (p0% if the price rise in the period were gonslder-
ed). As stated absve this decrease was mainly ca used by the decrease in
the supply of equipment funds for such basic industries as electricity,
 coal, chemical frtilizur, shi ping, etc.
Supply of Equipment Funds
(In Millions of Yen)
lst Half 1949 FY
1st Half 1940 FY
(1)
Bnaks, Trust Co., Cntral
Benk for Agriculture and
Forestry, Central Bank for
Commerce and Industry
11,403
8,287
(2)
Stack Issue
11,565
2,453
(3)
Debenture Issue
5,621
10
(4)
RFB
-1,705
27,517
Total
26,884
38,267
Note: (1) The figures for 1949 FY ere based on the increase of
equipment loans outstending included in the Actual Record
o Industrial Fund Supply investigated by the Bank of
Japan. Tne figures for 1948 FY were obtained by applying
7.7% (the ratio of eguipment sunds in the total loans
outstanding as f the end of January 1949 shown in the
above data) to the increase of total loans for the yeer.

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.97)
-.48 -
(2) The figures fur l049 FY were obtained by deducting the por
tion used for the repeyment of borrowing from the total
stock issue. But such repayment on new account as for
squipment funds borrowed sould not be deducted. The figur
for 1948 FY were obtained by a plying 17.3% (ratis of tho
portion used as equipment funds in the total stook issue)
to thu total stock issue from July 1948 to March 1949.
The figures were obtained by estimating the porting used
as equipment funds in the total sum paid in investigated
by the Industril Bank of Japan.
The decrease of supply of uquipment funds to the bagic industriee
was aggravated further by the delay in the operation of the Aid
: Fund. Aa shown in the following table, the direct industrial in
matment expected to be made from the h1d
Fund amounts to 36.4.
billion yen in the operational program formulated by the Japanese Govern-
ment for the year, 8o% of which cre for coal, electricity and shipbuilding.
However, the direct industrial investment released from the Alu Fund up
to the end of October is only 389 million ycn for the Japan. Nitrogenous
Fertilizer Manufacturing Company (Nihon Cnisso K.K.) and the lino Shipping
Company (lino Kriun K.K.)
Operation oi Aid Fund
(Direet Industriel Investment)
(In Millions of'Yen)
Yearly Prorom
Applicatione
Applicationa
Release
received by
received by
the Bank of
GHO
Japan
Number
Sum
Number
Sum
Number
Sum
NumberSum
Coul
36
8,700
26
3,891
217

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
-49-
Iron and Steel
10
3,983
2
2,179
1
639
Electricity
16
14,500
11
6,578
4
5,628
1
-170
Shipbilding
43
7,000
19.
3,a2
1
219
1
219
Chemical Fertili-
7
430
6
223
1
32
zer
Aquatic Industry . 6
100
51
1
18
Petroleum
1
250
Pyrites
4
400
3
271
Chemicals
9
1,070
4
456
2
389
Total
128
36,433
74
16,061
126,733
2
IT0
Note:
As of the end of October, the sum applied for is about
80% of the schedule.
Tne applications so for recived by the Ministry of Finance amount
to 16.0 billion yen, 6.7 billion yer of which was transferred to GHo for
approval. If prompt actions were taken for its release, it would be helpful
for the relief of cepital good manuracturing industries.
However, with duo progress in the release of the Aid Fund being taken
into account, the total supply of equipment funds for the year is esti-
mated at the level of 80
billion year or about 40% decrease as against
that in the last fiscal year.
Since the most part of equipment funds required is for the repair and
improvement of existing facilities except in the casos of development of
eloctric power sources end shipbuilding, the decrease of equipment fund.
supply for the present fiscal year would not only retard industrial ra-
tionalization but also make difficult the mintenance of production
capacity, therby  making more diffieult the self-support of Jepane
economy to be attained in future.

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
一50-
b. Public Works and Agricultural Investment.
It is natural that Japan is liable to natural calamities on.
account of her geographical nosition and the damages left unrehabili-
tated hecause of the reduction of disaster prevention expenses since
the China Incident have been gradually accumulated with the result.
that rivers are liable to flood even by slight rainfall every.year
causing to river works, crops:and farms, houses and other construc-
tions, household articles, etc. the danages anounting to several times
as much as the prevention expenses required. The total damages caused
by natural calamities amounted to approximately. 2oo billion yen in
the last fiscal year and it would not be the exaggeration to say
that the rehabilitation of calamity-stricken areas and the disaster
prevention are of the basie requirements for the reconstruction of.
Japan's economy.
However, in the budget for the 1949 fiscal year the public
works expenses were reduced to 50 billion yen or 67% in substance
of those in the 1948 fiscal year along the policy of reducing public
investment.
Thus even the expenses for the rehabilitation of calamity-
stricken areas on which the greatest inportance was placed in asses-
swent were reduced to 16.9 billion yen or 62% in substance.of those
in the last fiscal year. These expenses are for the rehabilita-
. tion of the damages caused in the preceding years and no expenses. for
the rehabilitation of the damsges in the present fiscal year are
included in the present budget.

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
-51-
In the meantime as much as 68.5 billion yen of State grant
is estimated to be required for the rehabilitation of the damages caus
ed by the typhoons (Della, Fay, Hester, Irma, Judith, Kitty, ete.
in the present fiscal year.. Thus dilapidation of the national land
is still being aggravated, affecting productive capacity, especial-
ly that of agriculture.
Although the public works expenses were considerably redoed
as stated above, special stress was placec on such disaster preven-
tion items as river works, anti-torrentials, afforestation, etc. in
the reduced public works expenses in view of the magnitude of repeated
calamities with the result that such items as agriculture (provided
for the prisent fiscal year with only 52% of the expense for the
last year), housing (58%), city rehabilitation (46%), and educational
facilities (13%) were most severely reduced. In the case of educa-
tional facilities, such severe reduction is almost tan tamount to
the total suspension of construction of new facilities for 6-3-3
educational system.
The public works expenses by items for the present fiscal
year are compared with those for the last fiscal year as follows
Public Works Expenses for 1948-49 Fiscal Years
(In Millions of Yen)
Items
1948 F.Y.
1948 F.Y.
1949 F.Y.
B/A
in terms
of 1949
(B)
F.Y. Price
(A)
Rivers
14,220
21,198
16,87479.6

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
-52-
anti-torrentials
581
858
766
89.3
Agriculture
11,704
17,294
9,937
-57.5
Forestry
2,226
3,247
3,690
113.7
Aquatic
626
944
869
92.1
Road
2,015
2,996
5,638
188.0
Harbors
3,339
5,091
3,796
74.5
Beacons
0
0
242
Private Railway
80
123
'0
0
Educational Facilities
6,028
9,328
1,196
12.8
Public Peace & Prison
598
932
1,300
139.8
Housing
3,425
5,316
2,957
55.6
Construction and Repair
2,006
3,110
1,699
54.6
City. Planning
1,475
2,212
945
46.3
Labor
592
906
0
0
Welfare
129
221
138
62.5
Commerce & Industry
14
21
0
0
Administrative Expenses 459
647
0
0
Total
45,517
74,447
50,000
67.2
Next, how the reduction of public investment as stated above
is affecting &griculture will be studied.
Farming in Japan is extre-
mely small-scale end it is being intensified by ever increasing popu-
lation.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
-53 -
Thus, as the result of the reduction of agricultural invest:
ment in the budget for the present fiscal year, the farmers, unable
to bear the burden with their own small economic resources, was
forced to look foward to local public finance and private loens.
However, it is almost impossible for hen to obtain loans from general
financial institutions as their sums are sulstantial and their terms
are required to be low interest and long term (7 to 20 yeafs) in
order to make repayment with crop while farm land is not allowed to
be used as security at present. Furthermore, the Deposit Bureau
funds are not made available for agricultural investment while not
much can bc expected from the Aid Fund (2.5 billion yen is listed for
agricultural investment in the operational program of the Aid Fund
for the present fiscal year).
In this way, the raduction of public works expenses and the
failure to cover the resulting gap with long-term agricultural finane-
ing by the Central Bant for Agriculture end Forestry, etc. are causing
considerable stagnation in various agricultural constructions in the
present fiscal year. For example, while construction is either delayed
or suspended in 18 areas out of 26 aress under national land reclama-
tion program, construction is entiely stopped in <15 areas out of
925 areas under land riclamation program in Hokkaido and 1,224 areas
out of 1,874 areas under prefectural reclamation program. Further-
more, construction is suspended in 28 areas out of 90 areas under

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
-54 -
sea and swamp reclamation program. Even in the field of irrigation,
drainage and land improvement which are very effective in the- expan-
sion of agricultural productive power the effects were considerable
and while the aree to be placed under irrigation and drainage works in 
the present fiscal year is expected to be reduced to 120,000 "cho"
(300,000 acres) or one third of that in the last fiscal year the
area to be placed under land improvement program in the present fiseal
year is estimated to be reduced to 3,ooo "cho" or one eighth of that
in the last fiscel year. Thus, the expansion or maintonance of agri-
cultural productive power indispensable to the reconstruction of
Japan's economy is coming to impasse.
As seen in the case of agriculture stated above, local finance
is also affected by thc reduction of public works expenses and local
governments are endesvouring to tide over the situation with the in-
creased collection of local taxes and contributions. However, it
would be almost inpossible to expect much fron the local governments
highly dependent on the national. Government especially as the local
bond issue is limited at 23 billion yen (19.7 billion yen exelusive
of the issue for the last fiscal year) in the present fiscal year.
Therefore, the investment for construction, both netional and local,
for the prusunt fiscal year will be forced to remain at the level of
about 70% of that in the last fiscal year. In this way it would be
impossible not only to stop further dilapidation of the national land

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.98)
-55.
and make a step toward the reconstruction but also to improve much the
present circumstances in which housing is short as many ss 3,600,000
units because of wer damages and population increase and 30% of:
schoolboys cannot be sufficiently accommodated.
It may be added that resignation or recall cf many chiefe of
cities, towns and villages in connection with the suspension of
various construction programmos and financiel troubles was one of the
repercussions caused by the reduction of public works expenses.
3. Shortage of effective demand
The curtailment in purchasing power of the public finance and
disbursement of eouipment fund consequential of the promotion of
the stabilization program on the one hand and the slump in.export
trade on the other have br ught about the shortage of effective
derand and invited a state of relative excess of production through-
out the whole economy. The present situation may be called "plenty
in poverty", not "poverty in plenty", when the fact is taken into
consideration that the level of mining and manufacturing production
stands only at 70 to 80% of the pre-war level. Following are some
of the indic:tions of the shortage of effective demands.
a: Incrense in stockpiles
The stockpiles of such basic production materials as coel and
fron nd'steel, the supply of which had been extremely short up to
last year, those of expcrt commodities, es well as those of con-
sumption'goods wicl: havo come to be stockpiles since the latter
part of lnst yen,  ve been inereesing.

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.96)
56
According to a research made by the Research end Statistics
Division of the Ministry of Internationel Trade and Industry, the
recent trend of production and stockpile at plants of 203 items
of important materials is as follows.
Increase of Stockpiles
(Research and Statistics Division,
Ministry of International Trade
and Industry)
January-March
April
May
June
1949:100
Stockpile
Increase (over 110%)
73 items
98 items
107 items
Stagnant (90-110%)
77
11
52
11
43
11
Decrease (les's than
90%)
53
11
53
ii
53
11
Production
Increase (over 110%)
100 items
98 items
97 items
Stagnant (90-110%)
67
53
50
Decrease (less then
(0%)
36
11
52
11
56
The above table indicates that in numbe. of items of those
materials the stockpiles of which ere accumulating is gradually
increas ng end that he production is decreasing on account of
the pressure c such stockriles. The following tabie shows the
state of pre uctin end stoel pilcs of some of important materials.
Indices of Plont Stcckpiles end
Production (Averag fer Janusry-
haren 1949: 100)
(Research and Statistics Divi-
sion, Ministry of Internetional
Trade and Indistry)
April
May
June
July
August
Ordinary
Product-
steel
ion (A)
114
120
124
122
133
Stochpile
(B)
113
118
112
129
81
B/A
99.
97
89
114
61

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.98)
57
lectrolytic
A
102
100
104
100
114
copper
B
237.
351
442
300
400
B/A
102
153
186
121
153
Aluminium
A
136
175
176
186
181
B
161
251
351
724
589
B/A
83
100
139
273
228
Electric wire
A
103
77
81
70
74
B
113
110
105
103
1.04
L/i.
+34
174
158
179
173
Payon strple
yarn
A
127
132
131
130
138
P
106
160
191
217
245
3:/6
179
260
313
360
382
Caustic rcda
A
100
107
110
107
104
B
128
147
168
215
79
B/A
75
80
89
117
44
Both the sbs lute amo int of stock iles and their ratio:
to the amoint of production has remarkably incresed in the recent
months.
It is to be noted that the decrease in the amount of stock-
piles of steel, sods, etc. in the month of August is deemed to be
due to the increare n the purchase thereof in the prospect of their
r'ce rise duc to roduction of subsidies.
In other words, stock-
Li es of nes- rateriels vere trensferred fron makers to consumers.
It is tri: th . increesed stockpiles are nct more than two months'
pr luction ev n in the cnse of mcst prominent increase, but the
we: kness of. enterprises lies in that they lack in their own. funds
enough to: maintain such stock,iles nd therefore have to depend
on stock,fles financing from finsncial institutions.

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
58
The follcwing table shows the increaee in stockpiles of coal.,
which will indicate the general trend of accumulation in the hands
of makers as well es ccnsumers and other enterprisess.
Increase of Coal Stockpiles
(1,000ton)
Amount
Amount
Stockpiles at
BZA
of pro-
of allo-
Mines
Port
Market
Total
(%)
duction
cation
(B)
(A)
Apri1 1949
3,279
3,020
508
937
856
2,301
70
May
3,297
2,436
439
949
1,111
2,499
92
June
3,334
2,462
418
1,124
1,442
3,984
July
11
3,132
1,986
472
1,462
2,108
4,042
122
August ".
3,029
],784
423
1,437
2,750
4,610
152
Sept. "
3,200
2,302
628
1,144
3,784
5,556
160
While the normal amount of running stock of coal is seid to
be the amount of ten days' production, or roughly one million
tons, the actual emount of stockpiles aas reached as much as five
times the amount of normal stockpiles as a result of the shrink-
age in the amount of distribution, which fact indicstes general
stagnation of production activities. The disposition of these
stockpiles is an urgent problem after.the abolition of the Solid
Fuels Distribution Fadan.
Lerger in monetary amount than the coal stockpiles are
those of export commodities, and in particular, of textiles
products. The stockpiies held by the Textiles Foreign Trade
7
Kodan at the end of June were as much as 33.1 billion yen,
of which cotton products were 8.8 billion yen and raw silk
and silk products 8.4 billion yen. In addition, there are

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.98)
59.
17.6 billion yen stockpiles in private hands which accrued from
failure and cancellation of contracts, making the total textiles
stockpiles well over 50 billion yen. In order to dispose of
these stockp'les, the Government has established the Measures
for Disposition of Export Rejects, through which 170,000,000 yd.
of cotton cloth, 5,Oc0,000 1b. of rayon staple yarn, etc. were .
released to the domestic market. It has further been decided
recently to release cll the textiles stockpiles, including 170,-
0v0,000 yd. of cotton cloth and 7,000,000 1b. of cotton yarn,
to the domestic market by next spring.
However, even though tex-
tiles produ ts have large potential demand, it is doubtful if the 're-
lease of more than 30 billion yen worth of products be absorbed in
the market casily. The increase in export stockpilesiis also seen
in the stockpiles of the Minerals and Industrial Products Foreign
Trade Kodan.
The latter has increased from 4.9 billion yen at
the end of March this yeer to 9.2 billion yen at the end of July
and to 9.3 billion yen at the end of August, of which 1.7 to 1.8
billion yen is said to be dead-stock, being either rejects or of
no export prospect. Moreovcr, there is c nsiderable amount of
import stockliles.
The import stockriles at the end of June
were as much as 7.1 billion yen, consisting of metals, minerals
products, chenical products, etc.
70 billion yen export and
import stockpiles, s well s the delay in the collection of sell-
ing proceeds of imported commodities, have rendered. the Kcdan
financing extremely fifficult and caused the increase in berrowings.
According to & research made by the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry, the aggregate stcckpiles of materiels under its
charge, both for export and for domestic consumption, were 70.4
billion yen at the end of June, of which 33.1 billion yen, or 44

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.98)
60
being deemed to be abnormal stockpiles. The Japan.Industry
Association reported, as the result of its research into the
Coal Association and thirty other minerals and manufacturing asso-
ciations/the aggregate stockpiles at the end of June were 63.5
/that
billion yen, of which 59% was textiles products, 8% iron and :
steel, 8% coal, machinery 3.1 % and mineral products 2.7%.
In the light of these data, cnd adding thereto the stockpiles
of agricultural, forestry and marine products, the aggregate
stockpiles are estimated to be as much as so billion yen, of
which 70% is estimated to be export products.
b. Inerusc in uncollected proceeds.
Parailel with the increase in stockpiles, uncollected pro-
ceeds and outstanding debts of enterprises are increasing sub-i
atantially.
According to a research made by
the Production Bureau of the Economic Stabilization Board, the
uncollected proceeds of 16 important industries increased from
52.1 billion yen at the end of January this year to 64.7 biilion
yen at the end of April (at the end of May for some of the in-
dustries). As to 11 of these 17 industries of which subsequent
data are available, 46.7 b:llion yen uncollected proceeds. εt the
end of Agril increascd to 60.6 billion yen at the end of June
but slightly decreased 51. billior. yen at the end of July.
to
Such incrcased  mount of uncollccted proceeds is estimated to be.
2.5 to 3 times as mucl as the normel amount. Following are sore
of the exarples of rerorkably large emount of uncollected proceeds
and. outstnading debts.

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
61
Uncollected Proceeds and Outstanding Debts
(Froduction Bureu, Economic
Stabilization Board)
Uncollected proceeds
Outstanding debts
(¥1,000,000)
(¥1,000,000)
hpril
June
July
April
Coal
19,478
19,973
16,480
Coal (excl. Kodan)
6,661
Coke
2,381
2,039
875
Electric Power
6,315
Electric power
2,329
2,385
2,351
Iron and steel
4,585
Ordinary steel
3,041
4,025
4,030
Teytiles
5,672.
Electric wire
3,783
3,840
3,784
Metal machinery
4,468
Machinery
10,547
National Railway
4,595
Imported Com-
Ex: ort cormodities
4,543
modities
13,971 27,111
22,714
(at the end
of March)
The consideratle decrease in the uncollected proceeds of-coal,
coke and imported materials toward June and July is attributed
to'the strengthened efforts on the part of the respective Fodans
to collect its selling proceeds and to the progress of Governmant
payent and credit extension to coal and electric power industries
fer the clearance of outstanding debts.
It is assumed that un-
collected proceeds de not increese i: the lectric wire and machinery.
industries because stockpiles and sale on credit have reached hhe
limit in these order-making industries, and they are curtailing
production in conscquence of the shrinkage in the amount of orders.
c. Stock prices
The stock prices are another index of eccnomic activities.
The trend in the level of stock prices has been steadily upward,
though with slight vicissitude, since the "goods in preferenceo
money" tiaos of inflation, stock having heen one of the most

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.98)
62
profitable object of investment. However, stagnation, or even
decline, in stock prices has been evident recently since the ear-
ly part of September.
Stock Price Index (August 1946: 100)
(Research Section, Tokyo
Stock Exchange)
Months
General stock price index
April
607.2
M
700.3
June
675..8
July
565.0
August
628.8
September
620.0
Cctober
The index for the month of October is not released yet, but
it dropred from ¥163.3 in September to ¥124.11 in October.in the
general average stcck prices according to the Reserch Section of
the Yam ichi Securities Co.
It is true that the sclling of stccks urged by the enforce-
ment of changing of stoctholders' nakes as recommended by the
Shoup Mission and other marlet situation have induced the fall of
stock prices, but the more fundamental cause for such fall of
stock prices is the excess of stock supply in relation to the in=
vestment capecity of the public, resultant from public sale of
the reconstruction and recrganization capital-increase stocks and
the release of stocks of restricted concerns b: the Securities Dis-
position Adjustment Council. The securit market has since the
end of the wer induced. considerabl anount of fund in the hand 'of
public into. the industrial fund through the investment in securitie

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
63
Recently, however, many stockholders sell their parent stocks
in order to pay for new ce itrl-increase stcck-issue; many stocks
to be sold tc general public remain unscld; and stocks of major
companies are often qucted below their face value.
d. Fa 1 in residential housing construction.
The
decline in the building activities is another evidence
of the shrinkage of investrent capecity of the public. The
residentail heusing ccnstruction had been increasing, surpass-
ing the Government prograit, up o Narch-April period of this
year, with seasonal fluctuations of rise in spring to summer and
fall in auturn to winter. Hovever, the building activities after
June which used to be the peak period are extremely inactive this
year.
The following table shows the corperison of the
building
activities this year with those of the preceding year.
Redidential Housing Construction
(Residential Housing Research
Association)
Application for building
Completion
(Number of ho ises)
(Humber of houses)
1948
1949
1948
1949
January
79,673
64,307
40,098
48,464
February
.92,524
83,185
40,993
44,654
March
124,965
97,203
46,158
88,794
Arril
119,412
80,825
57,232
60,757
May
107,800
73,972
67,315
52,146
June
67,234
3,524
78,644
49,976
July
73,122
41,336
68,781
41,802
Angust
72,955
48,508
62,694
44,823
Scptumber
70,506
53,552
56,449
35,059
October
70,992
6,913
Novumber
61,116
46,386
Deccaber
62,012
46,169

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.98)
64
The decrease in the number of epplication for building
foreshadows further decrease in the housing construction in future
It is to be noted in this connection that while the building floor
space was larger in the rural area than in urban area last year,
the relation is vice versa this year, reflecting the end of the
fari prosperity.
f. Decrease in transrortation of commodities.
The movement of goods decrenses seescnally in the surmer
months and increase toward autuin and winter. The ncnthly amount
of freight transport tion of the Naticnal Railway after July this
year is smaller as compared with the respective months of l-st yeer.
Stockpiies et stations decreased fren 2.6 million tons in September
l.st year te 0.75 millicn tcns in September this year. Only 1ist
year the shortage of railw y transportation capacit y was cne of
the major bottlenecks of productinn increase, but it has rapidly
come tc surpass transportetion demand. The 140 millien ton trans-
portation tcal of the National Railway for this year can hardly
be attaired due to the shrinkage in the amount of delivery of
products. It is expected that the total freight transportation
of.this year will be 130 millien tons at best, with the resultant
Jecrease of 1.3 billirn yen in the estimated freight income of
3008bil1ion yon.
The sigilar situation prev-ils in the passenger transportation,
partly due to tre raising of passenger rates. The transportation
goal of 3.5-billion passengers was fcrcei down to 3.1 billion,
and the estimered incone frun passenger rates of 74.3 billion yen
will be failed by 7.3 billion yen.

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.97)
65
The sintinkage of tranaportation is particularly remakri
as thr anall, Tigmitte,, charccal and firewood, lunber, etc.
same time, the demand for small-sized waggons is inoreasing in
censequence of the decrease of magnitude in transactions.
As to marine transportation, dcmestic coastal transportation
has been declining after Alril, while ccean transportation has
shown litcle increase. Wocden vessels, in particular, trens-
ported only 40% of cargoes .as ccmpared with the corresponding peried
of last year, due partly to the re uction in fuel allocation.
The result of the decreass in marine transportation is that despite
the shortage of ocean-going vessels, 227 coastal steamers of 730
thousand tons and 62% of total bottems of wooden vessels, or 740
thousand tons, lie idle in varirus ports. It is estimated/the
/that.
Shipping Managerent Associntion will suffer deficit of lo billion
yen during the year, the deficit in the former half of the year
hoving been 4.9 billicn yen.
4. Stagnation of roluction
Industrial procuction which continued upward movement during
last year reached platean in March this year, ,Industrial index
(1932-36 average = 100, including elecricity and gas) published
by Economic ena Scisntific Scction, SCAP as revised in June this
year is 95.2 1n Apr1l, 92.6 in May 95.3 in June, 96.5 in July,
92.4 in August and 8.2 in Soptomber. Index for September was 112%
of that in September last year while industrial activity in April
this yeer vas 156% of that a yeur ofore. This indicates that-
increase over last year iu netleeably dwindling.
Note: The above ited niices of industrial activities
are very hi h for clecricity und gas production is
includel. Irdices for indtustrial (maning and manu-
jucturing) production excluding electricity and gas pro
duction are only 79.3 in April and 78.4 in September.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.97)
Last year prcduction increasod vory rapidly favoured
the improvement in fuels, power and rew materials situ
though it wus accompunied by a slight inflation. Induat
activity index increased from 66.7 in March last year to
94.5 in Murch this year, that is, by 41%. The index. for
September this yoar is 93.2, which is slightly below March
level. The recovsry since the end of the war and ataena-
licn fter april nis veur, of industrial activity, is
andicatea in the graph helow. Production fell for the
first tine thie year since the end of the war in the peak
precuction se ison of the year March - September.

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.90)
-66-2-
Index of Industrial Activity
(1932.36：100)
90
1965
70
50
40
30
decc
Sep.
Leoc

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
67
Index of Industrial Activity.
(Prepared by Rusearch and Prograns Division, Ess
(1932-36=100)
Apr. 49 May. 49 Jun. 49 ul. 49 Aug. 49
Sept.49
(C)
Sept.49
(A)
(B)
(C)
(B)
Sept.48
(Tentative)
Industrial
Activity
:95.2
93.6
95.3
96.5
92.4
93.2
100.9
113.1
97.9
Electvicity
& gas
170.7
176.2
171.8
171.1
154.2
164.1
106.4
105.1
98
9
Mining. & Manu-
facturing
79.3
76.2
79.2
80.7
79.5
78.4
98.6
117.4
98
Mining
106.2
92.5
106.0
-108.9
103.9
106.2
102.2
115.3
100
Manufacturing
76.3
74.4
76.2
77.6
76.8
75.3
98.0
117.7
Durable goods
107.8
100.5
101.6
103.9
101.1
100.0
98.9
116.8.
92.8
Metal
81.4
84.6
82.3
92.7
57.4
87.6
100.2
152.1.107.6
Machinery
134.1
117.6
116.8
117.9
116.3
111.7
96.0
100.4
83.3
Coramic
74.0
78.9
70.2
84.8
83.2
91.8
110.3
161.6
124.1
Lumber
118.8
111.5
140.2
101.2
100.6
109.7
109.0
107.8
92.3
Non-durablo
good
51.1
53.9
56.6
67.1
58.1
56.2
96.7
119.3
110.0
Toxtiles
22.5
23.0
23.2
24.3
23.5
25.5
108.5
125.0
113.3
Chemicals
81.1
62.5
83.4
81.8
78.5
77.4
98.6
119.8.
95.4
Food
61.7
74.6
87.2
90.4
104.2
90.1
86.5
110.1
146.0
Printing
59.6
60.2
63.6
66.6
69.7
62.1
89.1
130.2
104.8

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.98)
68
As is shown in the above table, production in general is statio
but in durable goods manufacturing industries, particularly in maohi
nery inaustry, production decrease is noticeable reflocting the
reduced purchasing power in them. The following production indioes
compiled by E.S.B. indicats also the noticeable declining tendency.
of capital goods production..
Industrial Production Indicos
1933-1935 average=100
E. S. B.
apr. 49 May
Jun
Jul
Aug
(B)
lug.49
(A)
(B)
(A)
.ug.48
Inlustrial Production
77.2
73.4. 76.1 75.0 74.4.
99.2
127.0
Basic Goods
77.8
77.7 82.0 81.9 80.2
97.9
140.7
Capital Goods
140.3
118.5 117.1 114.5 115.2 100.6
105.7
Consiunor Goods
34.3
35.8 38.3 36.6 37.2 101.6
132.0
Stagne tion in production recorded since March this year,
however, cennot to suiu fully to reflect the fall in effective
demand. The nesd of lowering cost of production is impelling
businosses to muintain o raise operating rate even if they are
not qnite sure about the arket for their products. This results
in stockpiles of prcducts, and greater account recoivable and
payable. Financial measures are inevitable to cope with this
s1tuation. Generally speaking, it may be'said that the shorter
the production period is the more quickly fall in effective
demand is reflected in production decrease.

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.98)
69
It will be clcar from the uvove uxplan tion that tha rccent
starnation in production is not a temporary acoidental phenomenan
but may be uccentuated pari pussu with the offect of receding boom
becoming more far-reaching and general, and that it is not raw
materials ard cupacity ut effective demand which determines the
level of producticn.

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.98)
70 -
Iv Effects of the Implementation of the Stabilization Program.
A. Effect on businesses.
1.
Generel view by industry.
The recent trend of business following the implementation of the
stabilization pro ram will be analysed below seperately with regard
to basic industries, capital goods industries, and export and con-
sumer goods industries.
a. Basic industries.
Coal.
As a result of fall in effective demand, the recent
actual delivery is below two million tons a zonth. A stockpiling
tendency which began on low grade coal in September last year has
now
spread to high grade coal. Up to last September, produc-
tion was not below the plan tecause producers tried to produce as
much as possible in the expectation that the Kodan would be aboli-
shed. After coal was 'placed under free sale, all mines paid more
attention to rationalization, restricted production of low grade
coal and intensified the strict selection of coal with the result
that coal production in October fell to S9% in the first ten days
and to 78% in the second ten days as against the target of 42 mil-
lion tons. After decontrol
, the prices of high grade coel are a
bit. risins but those of low grade coal fell sharply. On the
average, 10-20g fall is noticed. The quality of coal has pemarkably

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
-71---
improved, raising the consumption efficiency in coal consumping
industries such as railways, electric power supply industry etc.
On the other hand, efficiency of each mine under free oorpetitfon has
/higger
become considerably clear. It is estimated that quite a number of
suall and medium-sized mines willhavo to restrict production or to
stop operation. Coal dealers will meet considerable difficulties
in selling coal until the disposal of/million tons of stockpile
/4.8
held by the Kodan is completed. As a result of discontinuation of
Reconstruction Finance Bank loans, and of the abolition of the
Kodan, the coal industry has come to expereince the same financial
difficulty as the other industries. 3.6 billion yen of joint loan
was extended for the payment of debts. Put only the big five compa-
nies were benefitted by this loan. The out-standing debts of coal
mines incurred in, connection with business operètion amountto 14
billion yen, thet related to equipment, 3.2 billion yen in equip-
ment, and that related to coal miners housing one billion yen.
These debts have far-reaching effect on related industries such as
iron and steel, machinery, dynamite and timber industries.
Electricity.
The current electricity rate is far below the general
price level as stated before. Electric power industry can hardly
pay for coal, repeir of equipment and other current expenses.
The amount of coal for thermal power generation counted into the
cost on which the current electricity charge is based is 3.7 mil-
lion tons cr 950,000 tons 1ess than 4.65 million tonsplanned to be
used for thermal power this year.
The industry is
fiding it difficult to find money to buy coel with the dry winter

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.97)
-72-
season approaching. The industry is making effort to carry out
rationalization by minimizing new employment, economizing extra-pays and
other expenses, cypediting the collection of unpaid electricity char-
ges and minimizing transportation and distribution loss. It is,
however, only to a limited extent that income and expenditure can
be balanced through these efforts. The equipment funds required
for the current year 1s about 26 billion yen. (17.4 billion yen
last year) 13.1 billion yen of this is expected to be provided by
the Counteryart Funds. But as this money is not yet made available
oven after the first half of the current fiscal year is already
over, money obtein: in the first quarter was only 2.5 billior yn.
Expansion and inprovament worls are therefore almost at a stand/ till.
The industry is mecting great difficulties also with regard to
operating funds becsuse th: revision of the current electricity
rate is delayed. These difficulties have so far been overcome only
by 1.5 billion yen loans to Japan Power Generatior and Trensmisrion
Company and forced collection of bills from consumers on the part
of power distribution Companics.
Iron and Steol.
Eubsidi, s-cut effected as implementation of the stabiza-
tion prograr wili v : sisable effect not o'ly on che iron and steel
industry but also on the whole eccnomy through iron and steel onsum-
ing industrics suca rs machinery and metal Jndustries. This impact
cannot be cushioncd by iron and steel industry alone. The Andustry
has nevertheless scde a steady progress in rationalizatich.
Coke
ratio in bl. st furnace operation which was 1,137 on the avurage

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.98)
-73-
last year has lately improved to 1,043. Labour productivity in
terms of monthly production per capita rose from 0.76 tons (in
steel materisls equivalents) in January, 1947 to 2.05 tons.
The proportion of cost of labour in the total cost of production is
14-20% and the ratio of labourers to office workers 1s 6.5 to 1.
Both are back on the 1943 level. The new official prices effective
from Septcrher this year have therefore taken account of 17% cost
cut in the casc of pig iron and of 10% cost cut on the average
finished stul. On the other.hand, stock on hand held by manufac-
turers and viclesslers increased from 148,150 tons at the end of
January, 1949 to 2~3,788 tons at the end of Ju1y, 1949. At the
end of August the stock decreased to 153,150 tons because people
hurried to buy iron and steel in anticipation of the raise of offi-
cial prices in Septenber. The stoct on hand is, however, expected
to increase in the future. The account receivable increased from
2,230 million yen as end of January to 4,025 million yen as end
of July. Another factor adding to the financial difficulty of the
iron and stuel industry is the fact that goods are now.bought on
delivery wile they used to be bought upon production. What can
be achieved by the lind of rationalization so fer carried out,
however,is limited. The pig iron to steel integrated operation
plants are suggesting the import of raw materials from the East
Asiatic areas while the open hearth furnace plants are supporting
the import of pig iron. But, the only way for this. industry to
survive the international competition is the modernization and
improvement of equipments and large scale production through higher
operating/including concentration of production within eech enter-
/rato
ontrants on iron and steel including secdrdery

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.98)
-74 -
products are increasing, amounting to 8,678 tons in April, 11,834
tons in June, and 64,918 tons in August this year. The. export after
the develuation of sterling, however, is expected to be fairly dif-
ficult.
Coprer.
Shortsge of fund in industry, especially that in power
industry caused the slump of electric wire industry. . This resulted
in a considerable increase of electrolytic copper stock piles and
the actual market price was for some time below l00,000 yen per ton
while the official consumer price was 102,000 yen per ton. Up to
September, production increase of clectrolytic copper was continued
in spite of stockpiles only becausé businesses tried to get ss much
subsidies as possible before they were abolished.  The stockpiles of: copper
now amount to about 10,ooc tons. The eyport of copper ingot is ex-
pected to raise the domestic price of copper to some extent. The
discontinuation of subsidies on copper will ake the,management of
copper refining industry pretty difficult. Even the utlization of
scrap copper will not help much. The mines producing only copper
ores will be in more difficult situation. The businesses afe trying
to tide over the difficult times by rationalizing management, cutting
personnel, shut!ing down unpaying mines, making up for their deficit
by surplus in other mines under the same management. A substantial
'number of mines are still expected to go out of operation.

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
Aluminum.
The aluminum industry which wes the first to lose sub-
sidies has made strenuous efforts for rationalization. In the refin-
ing industry, persornel cut reeched 17% and price declined by 20%.
As a result, the price of aluminum has come down to 130,000 yen per
ton or lowest in the world only next to Canada end lower than that
in the United States (135,000 yen). But the stockpiles held by the
refining industry amounts to about ε,7oo tons (equivalent to four
months production) and sone firms will be doomed to ruin unless
derand increases or operating rate is raised.
Ammoniur Sulnhate.
This industry is the greatest of those which have
stable domestic denand and is rather well off. The fact that the
blackmarket price is still seven times the official bespeaks the yet
insufficient production of anmonium sulphate. The declining pur-
chasing power of farmers may limit the domestic demand in the future
in combination with the rise of ammonium sulphate price due to the
revision of electricity rate and desubsidization. For the moment.
it is planned to minimize the import of ammonium nitrate and export
ammonium sulphate to the East Asiatic areas. In the dry summer
months, production of ammonium sulphate fell short of the target
for the first time since April due to strike in the pyrite mines
and deterioration of machines after the forcefully intensified
production of spring fertilizer. There are some factories whose

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.96)
- 76 -
opereting rate and carming power fell due to local shortage of ele-
ctricity. There is no doubt thet possible revision of the power
rate will be & centrel problem for electrolytic process ammonium
sulphate industry. The lack of operating funds and absence of such
wholesalers as existed before the war, together with the possible
ebolition of the Fertilizer Distribution Fodan may give rise to
some probler: for this industry.
Soda.
The sode industry is favoured with subsidies of 5,000
yen per ton of salt used as raw materials and with price subsidies
on caustic sode as well as on soda ash. In cese these subsidies
a
are ebolished or reduced the management of the soda industry will
become difficult as long as the import price of salt remains as
high as it is nov. Each business is therefore making rationaliza-
tion efforts such as utilization of by-product residues. The mnrket
price of soda ash is 20% below the new officiel price and sode ash
is being stockpilcd due to the slump experienced by chemicel fibre
and aluninum industry. The cost of electrolytic process and that
of solvey sode process are different. The sbolition of subsidies
on ceal widened tht sap betwern the donestic and international
costs of solvey soda proccss further. on the other hand, the offi-
cial price of soda ash is maintained. In case, however cheal
Magadi esh (natural sode) or solvey sode is imported the
soda industry may be confronted with difficult situation.

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
-77 -
b. Capital goods industry.
Rolling stocks.
It was expected carly. this year that the rolling stock
industry just like communication equipment indus try would be seriou-
sly affected as a result of a sherp fall in the Government derand.
As the effective demand in this yoar wes expected to be about 4.9
billion yen or 43% of the production in last year amounting to 11.2
billion yen, alrost all manufacturers have cut personnel, the cut
in the whel: rollin: stock industry reashing 30%. This industry
experienced considerable management difficulty in June and July,
but is managing to tide over the crisis helped by new construction
and repair ordered by private railways, new orderes for tankcars,
export to Thailand and Formosa of rolling stocks and encouraged by
the expectation that the budget of the National Railway for the
next fiscal year will be bigeer then that for this year. The orders
on hand will, however, be finished by the end of January next year.
Since the open biddinr system has come to be universal conpeti-
tion is severe and newly started or smail manufacturers are now in
a difficult position. Big manufacturers try to get orders even et
considerably lof prices, relying upon the reserve accumulated in
and before 1948. On the other hand, smell and medium
manufac-
turers ceased tc get orders with unreasonably low bid. Every manu-
facturer is mahing ef"orts to lower cost by rationalization. These
efforts, however, bcconc less effective by sharp fall in demand which
lowers the operating r:te. If we take a certain manufacturer as an
example, the percentage of piece wage in the total pey was 24% in.
June, 1948, 54% in November, 1948 and 34% 1n September, 1949.

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.98)
-78-
The process of wage structure normalization is thus hampered by fall
in oroers. The rolling sock industry is concerned more with "opera-
tion" than with "oerning" under the expectation tha: in JFY 1950
orders by the Government Railway will ammt to 6.5 billion yen and
export to 2 billion yen.
Comunication cunipmonte.
The JFY 1949 approriation for the Kinistry of Tele-
commanlcstion, occupying 83% of the total demand for wire communica-
ticn equipments, is only 77% of that for JFY 1948. This is a hard
blow to the communication equipment industry. The industry as a
whole cut the personnel by 30-40% between April and August this
year. This was a mcve on the part of businesses to eliminate once
for all abnomalities besetting menagement ever sinee the end of the
war, taking advantare of the decreased appropriations of the Wini-
stries. This wes also an effort on the part of businesses to pre-
pare the ground for the possibile foreign investments. With regard
to wireless equipments, the policy of "production increase first"
followed. ever since the end of the war resulted in enormous stock-
piles this year. In June and July thi year, every manufacturer began
to restrict production, cut personnel and make efforts to raise
labour productivity and to improve the quality of products. The
fall in effective demand is, however, meking the position of manu-
facturers difficult.
Electric wire.
The shuinkage of investment has caused an increased.
stockpiles of electric wire, which amounted to 7,746 tons in April
this year. The manufacturers therefore restricted their production.

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
The monthly average production fell by 24% from 5,337 tons (100)
in 1948 to 4,054 tons (76) during April-August this year. After
June even,the big manufecturers carried aut 10-20% personnel cut.
The export of bare wire is incressing together with that of copper.
ingot. But, as the percentage of rod wire is high, this export is
not so sdvantageous from the view point of margin. The rise of
copper prices and fall in demand are both exerting pressure upon
the electrical wire manufacturers.
Machineries.
Cosl mine equipment funds are expected to be about
14.7 billion yen this. year as against 24.7 bilrion yen in 1948.
This caused sherp decline in orders for coal mining equipments and
rapid increase in accounts receivable for sale of the same equipments
from the end of last year. The account receivable by all. the machi-
neries manufacturers including small and medium businesses from coal
mines is estimated to be almost 4 billion yen.
Textile machinery industry was very busy up to 1948
with rehabilitation of our tertile industry and with orders from
Indie and Pakistan. This year orders sharply decreased due to
lagging export and diminished domestic demand. The export became
difficult because of dollar shortage in the sterling areas.
The industry is at present continuing production only to fulfil.
orders already received both at home and from abroad.
The demand for universal use motors this year is expected
to be almost on the same level as that last year because of fec-
tories for replacement and by farmers For rural use. The demand
of pole transformers is expected to fall about 20% as compared
.with that in 1948 due to shortage of fund in power distribution

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.99)
-80-
Shipbuildine.
Shipbuilding as an all embracing industry has a great
effect on the related industries which take 7o% of the cost of ship-
building. Six months delsy in determining the fifth lot of ships
to be built compelled ship . ards to draw upon capital. Though the
prices of ships were set low by the.shipping ccipanies concerned with
the cost of operation under high interest rate prevailing in our
country, big ship yards which have succeeded in receiving orders
are animated, these orders coming after the construction of foreign.
ships wiich served as a stop-gap. Moreover, the reconstruction of
war standard vessels is enabling some businesses to operate at full
capacity. Few big ship yards cut the personnel in anticipation of
the fifth shipbuilding crders, though some yards discharged non-
regular workers (a kind of sub-contractors in shipbullding). . On the
other hand, small and.mediumsized ship yards are barely tiding over.
the difricult times by cutting personnel and converting to manufactur-
ing machineries tc be used on land, because the new construction of.
small ships and fishing boats is gradually decreasing due to lack
of money on the part of ship-owners, decline in sea transportation
by smaller vessels and bad conditions in the fishing grounds.
Competition is relatively mild in reconstruction of war standard
vessels and repair of ocean-going vessels, but a hari competition
under open bidding system is noticed as regards small and médium
sized vessels.

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
Moreover the small and medium makers get orders only now and. then
and are compelled to continue uneconomical management because they
have to pay personnel expenses, indirect cost etc. all the same.
The difference in menagement between the big and small manufacturers
has thus become apparent.
Automobile.
In 1948 the production of motor.cars gradually increased
pari passu with the recovery of basic industries.
The requirement of motor cars for the first' quarter this
year was three times as.big as production, but what actually happened
was one refusal after another to purchase them. The tockpiles of
ordinary cars in the warket as of August 20 this year amounted to
1,960 (worth about 980 million yen) and the.account receivable for
sale of cars amounted to 486 million yen as of the said date. A
few major manufacturers began to restriet production in august and Sep-
tember Soon thereafter two big manufacturers announced 25%:porsonnel
cut and the threc big manufacturers announced 10-20% wage cut.
Conversion to prcduction of big diesel cars or small cars in relati-
vely strong demand is taling place becausc transportation companies
which are the main customers have not enough noney even to replace
uneconomical old cars. Easy term system is expected to increase
effective demand by sbout 30%, but is not working yet because the
negotiation between banks and dealers on the supply of funds required
is not making a good progress. All the mákers are trying to lower the
cost in view of the increasing stockpiles and of account receivable

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.98)
-82 -
Cement.
The cement industry as a business had been rather well
off, making up for low carning possibility due to the official prices
with production of plaster secondary products and with export of 20%
of production. The stockpiles are inereasing as result of shortage
of funds to purchase Japanese goois on the part of the East Asiatic
countries and of fallen denand by large consumers.
c. Export and consuner goods industries.
Textilcs.
Cotton goods constituting the major part of the Japanese
export to the sterling area are considerably affected by the devalua-
tion of the pound. .Since the 34.5% price differential between raw
cottoh released for cotton goods to be exported to the dollar areas
and that released for cotton goods to be exported to the sterling
areas has been removed, the eyport of cotton goods should not be
difficult from the view point of prices. The export is, however,
at the moment laggine. The pllocation of raw cotton for domestic
consumption in and after the third quarter this year will be incrcased
from 750 thousand bales to 1,220 thousand bales per quarter so that
the stable operation may be ensured. On the other hand, however,
processing charges have been cut by 23% on cotton yarn, by 25% on
cotton fabrics and by 40% on dying. This processing charge cut not
cnly is a blow for small and medium sized businesses engaged in
cotton weaving etc., but also is compelling even the big businesses
to carry out rationalization.

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.97)
- 83 - ..
一
Raw silk and silk fabrics have been decontrolled. Redue-
tion and ebolition of teytile consumption tax has been finalized.
In absense of a market price stabilization organization, however,
the prices of these goods are subjected to speculative fluctuetions.
Now that rayon end :ynthetic fibres are widely consumed at low:prices,
the expansion of world arket for raw silk and silk febrics will not
be attained without nol rnization of equipwents such as use of auto-
matic reels and cone winding machines and rationalization all through
from cocoon production cownward.
Reyon was exported to Indis and other sterling areas
in gradually increasing quantities. The same. export, however, fell
in and after June this year because the conslusion of the Anglo-
Japanese sterling arrangerent was delayed. The stockpiles as end
of August anounted to 24 million lbs. which is equivalent to four
months production. As for staple fibres, stockpiles are small and
demand is still great.
Paper.
The slump in publishing industry are driving many small
paper manufacturers especially low grade paper manufacturers end
paper dealers out of business. The management of first class manu-
facturers, on the other hand, has been stabilized. No rapid produc-
tion increase of good high quality pulp can be expected because
equiprent funds required for production increase of sulphide pulp
are not sufficient.

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.97)
-84 -
Sheet 'Elass.
This inaustry used to be profitable on account of the
demand and supply situation. The stockpiles have, however, continued
to increase since April this year. When the stockpiles in April
are taken as 100, that in June was 138 and that in August was 160.
The account receivable for sale has also increased. The market price
of a box costinc 3,668 yen at official price sharply dropped from
10,000 yen in April this year to 8,000 yen in June end 4,000. yen in
August. All manufacturers have strived to rationalize management,
to raise labour productivity, to improve quality and to normalize
the structurs of employment and wages. This effort resulted in 10%
cut in prouuction cost as compared with that a year ago. As this
industry is already equipped with relatively modern facilities, fur-
ther cut in proluction cost will be possible only with raised operat-
ing rate.
Dyestuffs.
When the dyestuff industry is looked at as a whole, it.
is noticed that the stockpile is increasing and sone makers ere
confronted with financial difficulty. But, since the demand for
good quality dyestuffs is great, the stockpiles held by the first
class makers which tended to. increase some time ago are recently
decreasing and the production by these makers is beginning to increase
in parallel with decreasing stockpiles.

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.95)
2.
Present conditions of small and mediun-sized businesses.
Small end mediun-sizcd businesses occupy an important position
in cur economy. The 1948 pr-liminary industrial statistics show
that tho proportion of small and madium -sized businosses in.the
entire industry is 98% in nuaber of factorios, 61% in prcduction
as indicated in the following table.
Number of fac tories and employees
nd producticn by number of omployees
Ttl
5ー43
50-99
100-199
Total
200-499 500
cmploy- aploy
employ-
5-199 em-
omployees employ
608
Go8
ees
ployess
808
Number of Numbor 110,116
92,063
,510
1,815
98,388
1,127
601
factories percent
100
92
2
98
1.5
0.5
Number of Number 7,060,252 1,321, 949
248,455 1,878,721 341,517
840,114
cmployocs precent
100
43
508.517
8
61
11
28
io
Production in mil. yen
817,136 320,402 87,975 78,141 486,518 106,811 223,807
percent
100
39
11
io
60
13
27
This table ooos. not include suall businesses employing less than
5 workers which tota1 515,343 1actories and 1,009,850 employees (1947
industrial statistics.) Tho actual proportion of small and medium-
sized businesses will be much grester when those very small businesses
are included. Even in tho export industry expected to play en important
part in the estaolishinent of a solf-supporting sconomy, 5o% of export
goods go thr uge the preanction process attanded by smali and medium
-sized businesecs.
The small und wedlm-sized businesses have been directly affocted
by the establisluaunt of £60 yen cne dollar exchange rate, devaluation of
the pound, recent bud sele of consumer gocds, concentration of pro-
ductien in big businesscs ete. Fourty percent of them which are sub-
contractors lisve been hit by cost cut and shortage of money on the part
of the big businesses. Tho conditions of amall and medium-sized bust-
nosses are now boconing serious. It nust not be forgotten that the

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.98)
86
rationalization of big businesses is being achieved at the oxpen
of those factors which do not permit clear statistical estimete.
According to a recent survey, the prccessing charges of the export
fabric sub-contractors which wua 8 yen per yard uround January
this year is now town to 2-3 yen and scmotimes they are compelled to
work for nothing with the nly hope that they mmy be able to keep 5%
of cotton yarn for thenselves. An investigation mede by an associa-
tion of netal industry for nechinery in Tekyo on 2,300 member sub-contrad
ing fuctcries showe trst the recent unit charge of sub-contracters
is about so% of th t in t boginning this year and sub-contractors
are eager to receive rders which are tend to further decrease.
The other facter advarsely affecting small and medium
businesses in combination with this worsened conditions of sub
contract just oxplained is tie difficulty of collecting the money
for their sale. An investigation recently made by Research
Section, ESB, on iron casting factories (6o) in Kawaguchi city,
Saitama Prefecture, reveals that the account receivable for,
sale per factory which was a littlo below the monthly output at the
end of March increased to twice the sonthly production at the
end of September und 40% of. thom are cver 6 monthsold. They are
alsost all due fren contracters.
Acccont reccivable for sale of Kawaguchi
iron casting factories.
cccunt roccivable per factory (in Yen) Average monthly
production por
Over 1 month Over·3 months Over 6
Total factory (in Yen)
months
At ond of Murch
116,255
127,301
148,075
391,631
400,000
At ond of September
261,267
287,012
327,360875,639
400,000

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.93)
-87. -
The financial difficulty of siall and vedius businesses can
clearly be seon lso from the vezent of weges. An investigation
made by the Csuke Chcmter or Conmerce
shows that tre wage of
emplcyses in sll utd vedius businassee (under 200 employees) which
was o little hishor th n tht in big businosses in 1947 wes 91%
in the rirst h ir of 1948, 85% in the 1attor half of 1948,
and thus ap is r contly further widening, the former being
62% in July dd S1% in Augnst.
ig busincsues still have the comparativaly greater possibilities
of tiuing ver ue firencial difficulties with borrowings fron
financial institutions. The ability of small and medium businesses
to borrow :oney is liritcd. Fren January through Sapterber, the Tokyo
Cor erco and Iniustry Cuntor received from smnll and mediu businesses
1,c26 applic tions tor help in berrowing money. ut cnly 5x of thom
were able to orrrow. Fu apertant srell and medium businosscs alone
are seid to require 2o billion yen cr working funds, and è billfon
yen of eguipmont funde, tstulling 20 billion yen, according to tho
recont inve:tir tion use by Lgeney of Smaller Enterprises. The
upper li it f special loans to small and mediwe businossos by the Bank
of Japan thr ugh raustrial ank, Central Commnorce and Industry Bank
and Hypethec sunk ds nly l.8 billion yen.
On une  ther und, it cannot be sonied that, in labour rela-
tions in purticular, sm:ll businesses have advantages of their own.
It is svidont rom the factors stated above that small and mediun-
sized businesses in eneral cre facing a crisis. In view of their
weignt in rcductien and emplcyuent, it must be said that the lardahip
and bunkrupey ponacing them is a serious problen not to bs overlooked from
the proiuction and tra le view-point or from the social viow-point.

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.98)
- 88-
B. Social effects
1. Movements of wage and living stendard
a. Movement of wage
The ational average industrial wage, which had kept inoreasing
at a almost constant tempo of a little less than l0% per month ever sinee
the end of war, begen stabilizing at the beginning of this year, as showa
In the following tahle. It rose only 5% between January and August this
year.
Trend of wage
Jan
Feb.
Mar.
hpr.
May.
Jun.
Jul. dug.
'49
Average Industrial
8,030 8,225 8,439 8,059 8,529 8,419 8,5
Wagc (Unit: yen) 8,166
It's indices ()
450
441
452
458
443
469
463
472
Consumer's effective
Pricc indices (B)
253
237
245
248
250
241
246
247
Real wage
Indices ('/B)
193
186
184
184
177
193
186
190
Remark:
The figures for"average industrial wage" are based on the
L'ber Llinistry's "M nthly Labor Statistics". The figures
(A') ares i'r the computation of "real wage indices" are
the indices of "ay rage industrial wage" minus taxes.
(The inicen r on the base of 100 for the 1947 average)
The rol w , fter a romerkable up till last January with 193
recovery
against l00 for tne 1947 averige, has since fluctuated little between
180 and 190. The trend of wages by industrial branches is shown in the
following table:

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.99)
89
Wage Comparison among Industrial Branches
(Unit: yen)
Jan. 49
ug.
Aug. indices (100
for 1947 average)
All industries
8,617
9,136.
453
Gas, power and water works
8,757
9,748
418
Mining
9,108
9,934
407
Coal mining
9267
10,209
399
Manufacturing
8,186
8,579
472
Metal
10,939
10,999
510
Machinery
8,709
8,863
444
Chemical
8,712
.9,296
507
Ceramic
8,839
9,595
471
Spinning
4,053
4,555
457
Wood-work
4,580
5,596
392
Food processing
7,855
9.642
511
Printing and bookbinding
7,916
9,330
434
Transportati on
9,859
9,963
442
Commerce
9,500
11,315
558
Banking
11,725
12,656
611
Public service
6,307
6,307
315
Remark:
The figures for other than "public service" are based on.the
Labor Ministry's "Montnly Labor Statistics".
As shown above, the real wage has generally increased between Januam
and August for sach industry, but the ratio of increase is different ap
ing to the kinā of industry.
Namely, the lowest 1s 1-2% for metal,

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.97)
-,90 -
machinery and transportation industrtes, 7-9% for chemical, ceramio and
Mining, ll-12% for gas, water works and spinning, and the highest being
18-23% for printing and bookbinding, commerce, wopdowrk and food pre-
cessing. Generally speaking, the stagnant trend of wage is noticeable
in heavy industries. The ugust wage was generally 4-5 times as much
as the 1947 aver ge, cxcept.for 5.6 times for commcerce and 6.1 times
for banking 3.2 times "or public service. Accordingly, the real wage
last August was about 180-190 against 1947 average of 100 for almost every
Industry, except publie sorvice wnich wes 128.
Another point t be noteu since last May is cases of skipping of
or doley in wage peyment which amounted to 20o-300 million yen each
for June and July according to the survey by Labor Standard Bureau,
Ministry of Labor.
b. Fronu. o living standerd
The tren of family expenditure, as showe in the following table,
has recently been noticeably stabilized, expocielly since March it has
bien cempletely lovelled off. s the consumer's effective price has
been stabilized in the meantime, the retl family expenditure, i,e, the
standarl f living, hae romained almest unehanged.
Trend of amily xpenliture
Ji:n.
Feb.
MY.
.pr.
Mε y.
Jun.
Jul.
Aug.
Sept.
49
Family expen.iture
For unit per month 10,533 10,091 11,774 11,583 11,939 11,096 11,826.119710 11,543
(yen)
Their indices ()
227
215
251
247
254
236
252
250
246
-Consumer's offective
Frice indices (B)
233
237
245
248
250
241
246
247
246
Real family expenditure
indioes (A/B)
97
91
105
100
102
98
102
101
100

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.97)
- 91 -
Remark: The figures for "family expenditure" are based on the "õei
sumer's Price Survey" (All_Cities) by the Statistios Burend
Prime Minister's Office. (The Indices are on the basis of
100 for the 1947 average.)
As shown above, the recent level of the real family.expendlture has
generally remained equal to the 1947 average. Even if the tact that the
1947 average includes December when family expenditure inorcase season-
ally is taken into account, the r=cent level is only 5% higher. Its
breakdown by items reveals that expenscs on food have increased while
these on clotnings and miscellaneous itoms have romarkably decreased
as shown below:
Tren of Consumptin Level by Items
1947 average
Jul.-Sept..148
July-Sept.'49
Real family exponditure
100
96
101
Foor
100
102
108
Ligating and hea ting
100
74
62
Clothing
100
106
98
Housing
100
103
130
Miscollanoous
100
78
87
As for the perccnt,e: occupied by each item in the family expen-
aiture, food was cons umed in somewhet' greater quantity as shown above
but as its price rise was-loss than in other items (aue to inereased
ratien and relatively small increase of its blackmerket price) its
porcentago in tne family expunditure slightly deoreased. On the other

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.98)
- 92 -
hand, as the prices of miscellaneous, gocds and services rose abnorma
elthough their purchagos were relucci in guantity theis peroentage in
the femily expenditure fairly increased.
Frecentages of Eacn Items in family Budget
1947 average Jul.-Sept., ,Jul.-Sept.  Pre-war
1948
1.949
average
(1934-36)
Tutal family expenditure
100
100
100
100
Food
66
64
62
55
Lighting snd heeting
5
5
3
5
Clothings
10
10
10
11
Housing
4
4
5
18
Miscellaneous
15
18
20
31
Romark: The figures for post-war are based on the "Consumerfs Price
Survey" (All Cities), while those for pre-war are on the
Fanily Budget Survey" Tokyo-to by tho. Statistlos Bureau of
the Frime Minister's Office.
s any rate, we have to aumit clearly of such post-war deterloration
of the family budget structure, as concentration of expenses on absolute
daily necessities like foodstuffs, ruduction of housing expenses due to
undor-depreciation, cuttin down of miscellaneous expenses etc. It is
ture that the structure of family expenditure has recently been returning, tho
little by fittle to the pre-wer, but as this is largely due to the diff-
erent rate of price increase of cach item, there is little improvement
in the actual stite of family budget. Tue real wages of workers haye,
indeed, increased consi erably cs compered with two years ago as shown
already. But due to the Tact that the comperatively low wages of werkem
of medium and snall enterprises and public servanta are pot inoluded

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.96)
- 93 -
that the real income of those other than workers are deemed to have de
creased, that unempl yment has increased, that not all the increased
income has been spent to incrcasc purchase but consiäerable part thereof
has been used to make up for the duticit in the family budgut, eto..
the standard of living of the urban populatlon as a whole has stayed
at the Level 5% higher than two years ago.
Furthermore, it is trus that the recent nominel stability of the
family budget is dur to the stability of the consumer's effective
price resulting from the rise in official prices and fall in black-
market prices offsetting each other in the average-income family, but
it is to be noted that dependence upon rationing varies in degree ao-
cording te family inoome brackets. Te lower the bracket, the stronger
in the oifect of the increase of official price(the weaker on the other
hand in the effect of the decreasc of blackmarket price). Fer example,
the Consumer's Price Survey (in Tukyo) as of last March reveals that
the percentage i rationed food expenses in the family budget varies
according to bracket, as filows:
Monthly fumily expenaimures
Percentage of rationed food expensee
4.000 - 6,000 yon
24.8 %
16,000-18,000
11
12.8"
28,000-30,000
11
8.6"
Average (14,852 yon)
13.2"
The l4% raise in the fflcial price of staple food effected last
April has affected the averag: bracket merely l.8% while the lower
bracket of 4,000 - 6,000 yen by 3.5%. Is should be remembered that
she reiuctlon of fooc subsldy directly and that of fertilizer sabsidy.
indirectly will perticularly affeot the lower Dracket and that the un-
employed and part-time emplcyees of low income represent a considerable

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Recent labcur and employrent situation
The process of rstionalization bogan with personnel reduction.
Accordint to the employment survey of the Ministry of Labour, em-
ployment which was on slow upward trend during last year began to
show a sigri of decline in January.
Employmant in all industries
declined by 0.25% in Feburary (as compared with the preceding month)
and 0.29% in March, and after a teniporary increase of 0.59% in April
on account of the recruit of school graduates, continued to decline by
O.ć3% in May, 0.9% in June and 3.1 of in July. The branches which
showed remarkable declire in July were coal mining (7.O4% -- percen-
tage decline in July as compared with January; same hereunder),
machinery (22.06%), sill reeling and weaving and other textile spinning
and weaving (9.07%), lumbering and woodwork (10.7%), transportation
and communications (11.78%),etc.
The "State of Enterprize Readjustment" of the Ministry of Labour
reveals that the tempo of personnel reduction quickened sherply in
and after the month of Nay, especially in Júly.
This is chiefly
due to the reduction of investment, in consequence of which machinery
industry which was directly affected and all other industries were
more or less degrees forced to discharge employees. The first wave
of personnel reduction in consequence of the economic stabilization
program, has subsided after the peak in July. At the same time,
the Government pereonnel.cut numbering es much as 200,000 was com-
pleted during the months from July to September. Under these cir-
cuastances, it may be said thst the first wave of personnel cut as
a whole has ccme to an end.
The future development of personnel
cut depends upon the tempo of economic rehabilitation.

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.97)
Recent Enterprise Readjustment
(Labour Ministry)
A meane the number of cases of enterprise readjustment.
B teans the number of i charged personnel.
February
April
June
July
August
Septemher
Ratio of Sopt to Feb.
L
A
B
A
B
A
B
B
Total
218
7,480
3
exf
32,641
1,051
92,393
903
41.423
767
33,796
351
451
Kining
1S
748
16
44
250
70
3.0
34
1,390
46
2.475
255
330
Construction
8
215
.13
35
1,699
34
1,535
16
509
14
523
17
242
Manufacturing 167
5,903
316
533
25,591
744
41,411
600
31,075
509
19,501
301
331
Ketal
15
549
38
1,4
66
4.636
85
5,553
55
3,201
51
1,903
340
346
Machinery
64
3,633
79
5,011
213
11,377
284
32,925
218
19,634
170
9,819
265
242
Chemical
29
689
47
1,365
49
3,548
84
4,177
87
3;353
81
3,367
279
493
Textile
17
230
25
515
54
1,099
58
1,595
63
1,587
42
1,102
247
479
Sawing &
woodworking
21
348
76
1,242
84
1,540
142
2,334
100
1,323. 84
1,226
400
352
Other manu-
facturing
22
441
51
1,422
.58
3,391
92
4,818
77
1,977
81
2,122
385
481
Transport &
communication 8
69
16
1,141
4
1,044
109
4,221
158
5,094
105
4,611
1,312
667
Other industry 17
508
18
741
49
2,207
94
371
95
2,841
93
6,746
5,470
132
By scales of
No. of
No. of
No. of
No. of
No. of
No. of
dischargemant
ca es
cases
caSe8
cases
cases
caees
Below 60
persons
98
206
362
488
413
364
50-199 per-
sons
64
122
214
266
278
231
Over 200
persons
56
49
110
297
212
172
Remarks:
This Survey is the summary of factfindings made y
the Public Employment Offices all over the country on ple
and workshops under their jurisdictions which went
through enterprise readjustment, provided that mall mil
jand workshops with less than 50 employees are pot gompletely included in the survey.

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.97)
96 -
The sluggish state of production, the progress of Governtel
personnel retrenchrent and enterprise rationalization and the di
ap: earance of the inilationary boom hove lessened the chancee of
employment. According to the employment reports of the Public
Employment Offices all over the country, the number of job-seekers
increased fron 649,000 in Junuary to 1,418,000 in July or 110%
increase, while the number of jobs offered decreased from 491,0oo to
180,000 or 37% decrease: The number of job-seelers who revisited the
exployment office increased by 3c0% from 224,000 in January to 1,
093,000 in July, indic ting the difficulty of getting job.
I.. consequence of such increasing nurber of the discharged and
mounting diffiuclty in getting job, the nunher of insurance bene-
fit payments under the Unemployment Insurance Law has been increas-
ing remarkably. Actual payment in each month since last Mey has
been 30%-50% over thet in the preceding month. The number of cases
of benefit. payment in August was almost 760,000 or 16.6 times that
in the corresponding month of last year. This. may be accounted for
partly by the fact that the system was not-fully utilized last year
on account of complicated formalities, etc., but it is no doubt
indicative cf n increasing trend of unemployment.
The abov -mentioned increase of the discharged resulting from
rationalization of enterprise and governcent personnel cut, together
with repatristion from broad, signifies the aggravation of the
unemployment problem. According to the "Labour Force Survey" of
the Statistics Burcau, Prine Minister's Office, the number of un-
employment persons hes been between 310,000 and 460,000 only since
the beginning of this year. These figures, however, represent only
unemployent perspns in the strict sense of the term, i.e., those.
who "have will to work but cannot be gainfully employed".
Ex
planation for such smell number of the unemployed in the strict

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.98)
=97
sense cen only befound in such chracteristics of he Japanese 
economy as poor social security system add close family ties be-
tween urban and rural conaunities.
The question is the existence
af a huge. nuiber of semi-unemployed who "have will to work and yet
cannot get living wages".
They exist in the form of surplus popu-
lation in rural communitios and handicraftsmen, street-stall mer-
chants, retailers, small enterprieers snd free labourers in urban
communitles. Substantial portion of the discharged workers and
reptriates have in the above form been "absorbed".
According to the "Labour Force Survey", the number of employed
with weekly working hours of 1 to 34 hours(less than 4 days per week
on the basis of 8 hour day week) in rural and urban communities.
was 5,740,000 end 9,860,000 respectively in July and August, or an
increase of 1,200,000 and 4,390,000 as compared w1th the corres-
ponding months of last year. The numher of agricultural employ-
ment as of last June is about 3,000,000 more than in the correspond-
ing month of last-year. The number of persons engaged in manufactur-
ing and concurrently.retailing occupation increased by 280,000 dur-
in
ing the rericd from lsst Way to August.
All these facts testify,
though incompletely, the truth of the above statements.
Numhers by Working Hours of Persons Engaged
in Agriculture and Forestry and Non-agricultural
Industries according to
Lebour
Force Survey
(Unit: 1,000 persons)
1949
1948
Total
Over 35
Below 34
Total
Over 35
Below 34
hours
hours
hours
hours
Agri. & Forest
June
20,610
17,730
2,880
Unknown
8
July
19,850
16,200
3,650
17,340
14,750
2,590
August
19,150
12,370
6,780.
17,150.
13,900
3,250

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
-98-
Non-Agricultural.
industries
June
17,250
15,410
1,840
Unknown
n
July
17,940
15,650
2,090
18,380
16,430
1,950
August
18,090
15,010
3,080
18,510
16,290
2,220
Total
June
37,860
33,140
4,720
Unknown
H.
July
37,590
31,850
5,740
35,720
31,180
4,540
August
37,240
27,380
9,860
35,660
30,190
5,470
As regards labour disputes, despite the above tagnant condition
of wages and personnel cut in the government and in private enterprises
they have been decreasing, both in the number of cases and in man-
days lost, and particularly in the number of persons involved.
No. of disiutes
No. of partici-
Labour days lost
pants
1949
Jan. Mar. average
178
444,999
96,592
Apr.-Jun. "
249
95,705
994,827
July
199
314,477
120,933
August
175
334,977
56,266
Source:
Labour disputes statistics compiled by Labour
Ministry.
Furthermore, as to the causes for labour disputes such defensive
and passive causes as opposition to wage cut, demand for wage payment,
opposition to work stoppages or closure of plants, opposition to dis-
charge, dewand for reemployment, establishment of the discharge or
retirement allowance system or demand for increased payment of re-
tirement allowence , have greatly increased.
Labour movement has
thus remained relatively quiet on the surface and adapted itself to the
stabilization program. But at the same time, labour has been in-
tensified as industrial rationalization develops and complaints

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.98)
- 99
conditions have been accumulating under the surface as the wage level
remains stegnent or even falls down. We cannot therefore. deny the
possibility that these hidden dissatisfactions on the'pert of labour
may if accumulcted beyond limits, give rise to sérious social pro-
blems.
3. Trend of farmers' ecenomy
The prosperity of farmers' economy brought about by the rise in
prices of foods after the termination of the war has now ceased with
a fow exceptionel cases and farmers' economy is gradually turning
to depression. Such trend -lreedy set in the course of last year,
and it is not appropriate to attribute it to the economic stabili-
zation program. Nevertheless, there is a possibility in future
that the normalization of economy and retionalization of enterprise
in the cour se of the eccnomic stabilization programwill be carried
out by shifting difficulties to farmers' economy:
There have
already been a number of indicatons to this effect.
One of the major factors is the increase in the population
pressure to agriculture. The figures of the employed populatian on
farm are as follcws. According to the Labour Force Survey of
August 1949, the employed population on farm is 19,150,000, or 12%
increase over the corrcsponding period of last year and 52% ofthe
total working population. (The latter percentage was 48% in August
last year and 40% in 1940.) The main causes for this increase are
the flow of orkers discharged by the rationalization of enterprises
or administrative retrenchment intc/rural districts and the shift of
non-agricultural labour force to agricultural lsbour force (for
example, in case workers oommuting fron rural districts to towns
for non-agricultural enployment.lose their jobs, it will result in

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.98)
the increase in the egricultural labour force), in addition
the natural increase and the inflow of the repatriated.
agriculture, however? is extremely intensive and the agricult
labour force hes been excessive. A part of the increased 
force, therefore, becomes unemployed and other pert partially
ployed.
The number of the portially employed on farm has rema
increased this ycer as compared with thet in the corresponding
last year as mentioned previcusly in connection with employment,
at the same time, the rate of their increase is far greater than
that of full-time workers, showing increase in latent unemployment
on far.
The shrinkage of blackmarlet transactions following the.normal
zation of. economy affects the farmers' econmy. Although blackmarket
parchase of production materials and daily necessities in rural dis-
tricts has been declining year by year, the blackmarket sale of foods
decreased to a large extent in consequence of the Increase in the
food ration and of stagnation in pruchasing power in cities, farmers
economy whichhave depended considerably on the food biackmarketing
having thus been affected sdversely. For exemple, the percentage
of expenditure for blackmarket purchase against the total expenditure
for staple foods in C.F.S. (Tokyo-to) Mas fellen remarkably from
69% in August last year to 56% in December last year, to.43% in
March this year and to 34% in July this year. Meanghile, as to the
movement of blackmarlet prices of commodities,the difference of prico
between agricultural products and industrial products which has be
increosing since the termination of the war hes recently come to
to increase,so that farmers' economy has profited, though not
in this aspect from the normalization of economy.  According

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.98)
-.101-
r
survey made by the Benk of Japan, for example, while the blackmmrket
prices as of September this year of staple focds, the main selling
goods offmarers, tell down to 88% of those as of the same month last
year, the corresponding percentages of blacrmarlet purchase.prices
of textile gocds and ammonium sulphate were 87% nd 84% respective-
ly, lthough the corresponcing percentege cf laily.necessities showed
increase of 112%.
How, ther, is the actual trend qf farmers' economy under these
circumstances? According tc the currency distribution survey made
by the Saving Encouragement Division of the Bank of Japan, the pert
centage of curreney.distribution in rural districts is.showing re-
makrable decline: 28.5% as of June 1947, 20.1% as of June 1948 and
17.2% as f June 1949. The outstanding discount of agricultural
bills reached as much as 13.7 billion yen at the end of July this
year, which is s remarkable increase as compared with 2.4 billion yen
at the end of September last year. This/an evidence showing the
is
recent/of agricultural fund, even if we take into consideretion the
/shortage
fact that the system was new and might nct have been much utilized
last year. It is to be noted,moreover, that the state of farm economy
is varied acccrding to areas and scales of management. That is to
sey, while large farmers and fruits and vegetable growers near urban
arees are relatively better off, farmers, espe cially winor farmers,
in firewood and chsrceai producing areas and single-crop rice areas
are worse off.
With regerd to the outstanding discount of agri-
cultural bilis menticned sbove, 73% of it are the bills of farmers
in single crep aress of Hokkaido, Tohoku end Holutiku areas.

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.95)
-102-
In fine, the impact of the econcmic stabilization progrem on
farmers' economy as a whcle has just sterted to present itself, but
1t will become more and more distinct from now on. It is feared that
additional burdens might be imposed upon farmers' econony by continued
inflow of city unemployed to farn end the weakening of the production
basis due to the lsck of agricultural long-term investment to which
we referred previcusly in connection with the shrinkage of invest-
ment.

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.98)
-103-
V. Future problems
We have revlewed the general situation of our economy since the 
mentation of the stabilizatlon program. Following are some of the.majo
problems which we will face on our road to the attainment of sound and mn
supporting economy.
1. Export and production
The Johnston Report released by the United States Department of the
Army in April last year states: "It has been estimated that Japan will
require about $1,575,000,000 of exports each year (at current prices) to
pay for essential imports of food and raw materials (and necessary invi-
sible imports) to maintain a tolerable food ration and standard of living
at home." The present level of exports has to be raised to four
fold in order to attaln such goal of exports.
Essential conditions for the enhancement of exports are the prevention
of recurrence of inflation and promotion of rationalization of enterprises
on the internal side and the solution of market problems and improvement
of trade conditions on the external side. It is needless to say that
adaitional efforts should be made to improve the internal condltions, but
no less ussential is it'to better the external ones. First, it is necessarg
that tho Far astern countries which are our main market for exports should
be able to pay ror the imports from Japan. For this purpose, our imports
from these countries should be increased on the one hand and necessary
fund made/available for them for the development of resources. Second,
/solnehow
our people should, at the earlie t opporcunity, be allowed to partiolpate
in tne International trado on equal footing with other nations. Uur
people are suftoring from various restirictions in their efforts for
export promotlon and in trade conditions. The handicaps will become all
the more serious as sellers' competition gets intensified in the worid
market.

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.98)
-104-
While the mining and manufacturing production has recently been
gnant, the current level of production is far too low to sabisfy the
of export promotion, enhancement of investment and future improvement 
living standard. The production level needs be raised by 60 to 70% to
the attainment of a self-supporting sconomy. In the ciroumatanoes where
there is a large potential demand for the modernization of equipment,
prevention of the deterioration of the national land, promotion of exporte
etc. on the one hand and an excessive supply of labor on the other, we
cannot allow coal consumption to remain at the level qf 3,0o0,00o tons.and
steel consumption at tne level of 150,000 tons per month. Moreover, as
the industrial pr ducts--machinery, metals, chemical products, eto.-in.part-
icular-will occupy increasingly larger portion of our exports in future,
silk exports and invisible trade incomes having decreased to a large extent,
the reduction of production costs through raising the operatlon rate of
enterprises is all the more necessary to enhance our exports. We must,
therefore, raise the level of production by expanding exports and domestio
investment demand.
2.Frice
Various distortions in the price structure caused by war-time and post
-war economic controls have gradually been removed recently. The roduc'tion
and abolition of subsidies und tnc revaluation of assets will further pro-
mote tho normalization of price structure. At a time when the'
intcrnational and domestic economies are still not fully normalized,
there are many restrictions and problems for the normalization of price
structure. We wiil review various problems related to price in connedtion
mainly with the desubsidization and the revaluation of assets.

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.98)
105-
a. Reduction and abolition of subsidies
While the reduotion and abolition of subsidies is strongly regu
by the public finance and also is an important step in the normalization
of economy, its impact on the over-all actual economy should fully be tak
into account. The problems with regard to iron,steel and sode are as foll
food and fertilizer having been reviewed previously.
As a result of desubsidizetion in September, the official prioe
was raised for iron by 70%, 35% for steel and 40% for caustio soda. The
step has so far stimulated the selfsupport of the industries without 
posing excessive burden on enterprises. Nevertheless, the offiolal prices
have, as a result of this raise, reached, or surpessed in some instangee,
the level of the blackmerket prices, indicating future problems for des-
ubsldization. Tha: is to say, as the recent shrinkage in effective demand
makes it difficult to raise officials prices of products to full extent,
the margin has to be absorbed by enterprises themselves through their
rationalization. But the question is that owing to the stagnant produo-
tion there is scarcely any room to reduce their costs of production by
raising the rate of operation. Moreover, they are nt a digadvantage in
the acquisition of imported m turials in that they, not being able to
import from the Far Eastern areas on account of political unrest there,
are obliged to import from distant areas, paying unusually high freight.
As long cs it is necessary to keep up these industries to maintain domestio
employment and to aconomizc sur imports on the one hand and to utilize
the resources of the Far Eastern countries which are our major market
and to enhance their capacity to import our products on the other, the
subsidies in these industries should be reduces or abolished only in
consideration of the rise in their operation rate and the improvement of
their conditions of raw materials Import. To put it in anotner way, the

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.98)
-106 -
improvement in these conditions wi ll make it possible to reduce or abolish
aubaldie and pramote real normalization of the economy.
b. Revaluation of assets
The Shoup Recommendation releascd in September will induce funda-
mental ohanges in jur taxation system. Its effects upon the management of
enterprises are extensive and complicated, some of the major points of
which are the revaluation of fixed assets and texation on the revaluation
profits, the abolition of the excess profits tax, the expansion of the
real estate tax, the revision of the cnterprise tax (adoption of the value
added tax), the abolition of the transaction tax, etc. In particular, the
revaluation of assets is an important step which stops the disinvestment
of capital long continued under inflation and clarifies the profit conditions
of enterprises, thoreby promoting the normalization of the economy. There
arise similar problems in the revaluation of assets as in the case of
desubsidization. That is. to say, enterprisers have to bear the increase
in the cost of dopreciation and the burden of the rovaluation tax unless
they manage to shift them to consumers by raising the prices of their
producte. If they cannot raise the prices of their products on account
of the shrinkage f demand and the low level of international prices, as
has been pointed out in connection with desubsidization, they have to
absorb the increasud costs of production through their rationnlization.
Suppose production remins stagnant at the current level in next yoar,
it is feared that those enterprises, wnich have large asscts but operate
at low rate and have poor profit rate, will suffer from financial burdens
for a year or two and will nave thoir reconstruction delayed. Under such
circumstances, it is likely that onterprises revalue their assets as low

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.97)
-107-
as possible in order to escape thèf? fmmediate difficulties
if the real estate tax be imposed in direct relation to the revalna
amount. Although Dr. Shoup pointed out the danger of excessive remaib
the danger in the current economic circumstances is under-revaluatlon
rather than over-revaluation. It is deemed necessary that the immediat
burden on enterprises accompanying revaluation be aot too heavy,becaua
under-revaluation will continue consumption of capital and disturb effort
for rationalization.
c. Electric power and transportetion charges
While the current general price level is roughly 2oo times the
pre-war level, the electricity and land transportatlon charges are restr-
Icted to the 36 times and 77 times levels respectively because their
costs calculation is buscd on the book value of assets on the one hand and
because of their public mture and bearing upon goneral price on the other.
Such unbalance in thé price structure entails various problems. The
electric industry, for instance, is suffering from shortage of fund to pay
for repair and maintenance of equipment and for coal for stsam generation,
as stated previously, giving rise to very unstable power supply. As the
price of coal has gone up 3oo times ths pre-war price, consumption of
relatively cheep clectricity has unduly increasei. As private steam
goneration costs nigh, mines and lactories rather purchase electrie power
than themselves generate with coal, which further intensifies the shor-
tug of electricity.
The similar unbalance xists butween land and marine transpor-
tati on. Tnose cargucs which under normal price structure would go to
marine transportati or rush to une rela tively cheao land transportation,
th reby intesif ing the difficultius of the mmrice transpartation Iadu-
stry. Such contradictipns will ao elimin:ted when the, Shoup Recammenda-
tion is inplemented and the normal capital expenditures are included in
the production custs. In any event, the current price policy shouls be

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.98)
-108 -
promptly amended when the independence and pm fitability of enterprises
are strongly urged.
d. Problens related to the raising of official price
The reduction and abolition of subsidies, revaluation of assete,
problems of electricity and transportation charges all point to the
raising of the o ficial price level. It is true that the burdon of these
factors cannot all be shifted, through the rise in the prices of produote
to the higher industries which consume these products, but the raising
of the official price level is unavoidable to a certain extent. The same
situation will arise as to taose products which are removed from price
control. The result is a general rise in the ccsts of produotion throu-
ghout all the industries, which, as explained before, has to be borne by
enterprises because of the limited domestic purchasing power, the level
of internetional price as well as the recent stagnation of production
atitities.. Tho impact is more serious on the machinery and chemical
industries which are closely related to the subsidized industries and
which incidentally are to be uur major export industries. Mureovur, the
necessity for lowcring prices caused by the devaluntion of the pound is
especially urgent for thes: industries. In the rationalization of these
industries which will become all the more necessary, the rise of the opera-
tion rate and th: modernization of equipment are deemed especially indi-
spensable.

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.98)
-109 -
3. Rationalization of enterprises.
As explained in the foregoing chapters, the rationalization
of enterprises will have to be pushed foreward more and more inten
sely. But the rationalization through the elimination of excessive
employment, concentration of production, price reduction of sub-con-
tracts, etc. is approaching its limit, as mentioned above. More-
over, the strengthening of buyers in the market has weakened the
producers' position to such an extent that producers often accept
orders at prices below production costs simply to maintain opera.
tion. Such situation has come to prevail especially in machinery,
rolling stock and slipbuilding and other capital goods manufactur-
ing branches, because of their limited domestic market and of
extremely meagre supply of equipment funds. It may be tha't the
elimination of unsound enterprises through such process may promote
normalization of economy, but the problem lies in the fact that
the present level of effective demand is still so low as compared
with the necessary level in self-supporting economy that the capa-
city of production surplus at present is not necessarily surplus
j
in future, and thet the survival of enterprise depends more often
on the volume of capital power or on good connection with financial
institutions than on the superiority of management. Furthermore,
in order to rationalize individual enterprises, it is necessary that
the entire economy be simultaneously rationalized. For 'example,
the reduction of interests rate of financial institutions is one
of the important factors, and the reconstruction of commercial
structure is another.

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.99)
-110 -
The scale of commercial functions heretofore undertaken by
the Government or Kodans is diminishing as economic decontrol pro-
ceeds, but private commercial structure to replace the Government
rechanism has not yet fully been established. The interval may
well be bridged by the producers' direct sale system, such as seen
in the sale of coal, but this is merely a temporary measure. It
is necessary that some specialized commercial structure be estebli-
shed. Particularly, inasmuch as Japan has a large number of minor
producers, which fact weakens sellers vis-a-vis buyers, commercial
cooperatives, commercial financing, etc. are very important problems.
The same situation exists as to export industries, in which the
absence of appropriate commercial mechenism put medium and small
enterprises in a very disadvantageous position. Here is another
room for further rationalization of economic structure.
As stated above, the rationalization of enterprises does
not and with the rationalization of individual enterprises alone,
but can be achieved ultimately only through the restoration of mutual
proportions of various branches of industry, normal economic circula-
tion of the entire economy and reasonable intercourse with the inter-
national economy. To force normalizetion of merely a segment of
economy does not only not achieve the normelization of that segment
but will, if pushed to strongly, disturh the reasonable development
of the entire economy. This is why the reduction and abolition of
subsidies and repeal.of cconomic controls should be timed properly
with various factors in the actual cconomy.

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.97)
- 111 -
4. Investment.
As previously stated,the supply of equipment funds in the
fast half of the present fiscal year remained at the level of 70%
of that in the corresponding period of the last fiscal year, too
small, cven allowine fon the lafl tion which wes stillgrsbslds
la the lastufisclel yer  c
In the present Japan in which income level islevelled
off at a very low level with saving propensity being necessarily
low, the capacity of private capital formation cannot be expected
to be expanded in near future. Under the present circumstances in
which the ratio of saving deposits as against the total deposits
is less than one half of that in pre-war, it is only natural that
the supply of equipment funds is limited even if such measures as
purc ase of covernment bonas held ty city banks/
/or loan arrangement by the Bank of Japan, redemp-
tion in cash of the R.F.B. bonds held by city banks, etc. were
taken. Although the accommodation of equipment funds through the
issue of stochs and debentures will be sharply increased in the present
riscal year as against that in the last fiscal year, it is also
hitting the ceiling es inoiceted by the recent slump in stock priccs,
With regard to corporate reserves, not much can be expected unless
operational rate be raised and rationalization be promoted further.
Furthermore, in the distribution of equipment funds, such
tasic industries as povor
, coal, shipbuilding, etc,
and small industries, agriculture and forestry, etc.,are less
favoured as the credit extension therefor is less profitable for

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.98)
-112-
financial institutions. In eddition, the increase of funds required
for the purchase of imported commodities and the increase of commer-
ciel funds following the abolition of Fodans and various aconomic
controls are affecting adversely the accommodation of equipment
funds as the funds accumulated in financial institutions tend to
flow into the former field. This tendency would be intensified
by substantiel decontrol in foreign trade and consequent expansion
of private foreign trade expected in the near future.
In the meantine, inventory financing increasing on eccount
of the accumulation of inventories caused by the/shrinkage of equip-
/stanatien of export and
ment funds is putting restraint, in turn, on the accomodation of
equipment funds. Furthermore, stagnation in the purchasing power
of consumer goods is becoming one of the factors deterring private
long-term investment in the present Japan in which cxport still
remains at a very low level. The abnormally high interest rate is
intensifying this trend.
While, es atated above, manv instances came into existence
which cannot b solved by private financing based on thu principle
of profit seking, the redemption in cash of 21.9 billion yen of
R.F.P. bonds by Government investment and the collection of 7.8
billion yen of F.F.B. loen were carried out in th- 1st half of
the present fiscsl yeer. Furthermore, the interest revenue of
R.F.B., th- excessive surplus of the Aid Fund end the repayment
frou the Foreign Predo Sreci:l Account amounted respectively to
6
4.6 billion yen, 27.4 billion yen and 2.5 billion yen in the same
period.

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
- 113 -
The most part of the Government funds thus accumulated is
at present utilized for the purchase of short-term Government
certificates. However, it is considered necessary to utilize it as
industrial investment more effectively for the attainment of self-
support of Japan's economy as its release for industrial invest-
ment is not considered necessarily to revive inflation.
That is to say, consideration should be given to the accom-
modation of equipment funds for such industries as may not be
covered by general financial institutions (basic industries, medium
and small industries, agriculture, forestry and aquatic industries,
etc.) by such measures as the prompt release and the increase of
the Aid Fund. for industrial investment, positive utilization of
the R.F.B. funds collected and of the interest revenue of R.F.B.
and operation of the Deposit Bureau funds in surplus for industrial
investment (through the acceptance of debentures, etc.).
5. Standard of living.
As statcd before, the recent standard of living of urhen
population remains stagnant at the level about 5% higher than that
prevailing.a ycar or two ago, and the pattern of household expendi-
tures is much worse than that of the pre-war days. Following is a
review of the recent standard of living in comparison with pre-war.
The study of family budget. comperes the post-war (1948) level
of expenditures with the pre-war (1934-36) level as follows.

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
114
Comparison of Pre-war with Post-wer Level of
Consumption
Monthly expenditures
B/A
Ratio of 1948 Level
per family
price level
cons
1934-36
1948
to 1934-36
tion
(a)
(B)
(C)
level (D)
(C/D)
Total family
expenditures
¥104.74
¥10,607
101
172 times
59%
times
Food expenditures
35.08
6,698
191
243
81
Staple food
12.02
2,801
233
216
117
Non-staple food
23.06
3,898
169
257
66
Fuel and light
4.95
423
65
104
82
Clothing
11.62
1,079
93
361
26
Housing
19.45
413
21
71
30
Others
33.64
1,994
59
121
49
Note: Data of family expenditures:
Pre-war:
"Family Budget Survey" (Tokyo-to), Cabinet
Bureau of Statistics.
Post-war:
"Consumer Prices Survey" (Tokyo-to), Prime
Minister's Office Bureau of Statistics.
(The pre-war expenditures are ?djusted so that the
basic number of family members is 4.72, the number
in the post-war analysis).
"Ratio of price level" 1s weighted average of 183 important
commodities based on the pre-war expenditures.
(The
post-war price is effective price in "Consumer Price Survey"

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.99)
 - 115-
As seen in the above table, while the post-war family ex-
penditures are l0l times the pre-war expenditures, the post-war
price level is 172 times the pre-war level, so that the post-war
real expenditures, or the level of consumption, are 59% of the pre-war
expenditures. In the appraisai of the change's in the level of con-
sumption, consideration must, of course, be given to the changes
in the pattern of expenditures and the propensity of consumers to.
choose commodities with less price rise. Analysis of expenditures
for various items will Bring light in this connection.
The levels of consumption are varied by various items of
expenditures. While the general level of consumption is 59% of the
pre-war level, that of staple food consumption is ll7%. It is true
that potatoes which were not counted as staple food in pre-war are
counted in pcst-wer, but it can safely be said that the level of
staple food consumption has almost restored the pre-war level. On
the other hand, the non-staple food consumption remains only at 66%
of the pre-war level, reflecting the shrinkage in the consumption
of such lese essential items as dairy products, sweets,fruits,
wines, and meals at restaurants, etc. In any event, the level of
total oönsumption of food, including st:ple and non-staple foods,
has restored to 81% of the pre-war level. The same thing is true
with fuel and light consumptions. The levels of consumption of
other items, however, are still very low as compered with the pre-
war levels.
While the post-war expenditures for clothing occupy about
the same percentage as pre-war expenditures in the total family
expenditures, the post-war consumption of clothing is not even 3o%
of the pre-war consumption as the price Jevel of clothing has gone

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.98)
-116-
very high. Of various clothing, the consumption of textile cloth-
ing is even less than 20%. of the pre-war. As to housing, the
post-war real consumption level is not more than 30% of the.pre-war
on account of the fact that proper depreciation is not considered
in current house rent and that the use of furnitures and utencils
has greatly decreased. . Of the post-war miscellaneous consumption
which is at roughly 50% of the pre-war level, the health and sanf-
tary convenience is 40% of the pre-war, and there are many other.
itmes in this category which do not appear in statistics, such as
entertaining expenses and other irregular
expenditures, which
have largely been curtailed.
The above analysis of urban living conditions shoga that the
postwas level is still: fuirly,low as cunpartd witheretetemt.
The stagnation of living at such low level will, in the long run,
deteriorate labor power, render meintenance and development of te-
chnical and intellectual ability difficult, and hamper the develop-
ment of economy. On the other hand, the low level of living
shrinks domestic market, thereby arresting the sound expansion
of production and export.
It is true that the expansion of domestic purchasing power
for consumption goods is not allowed at present when we are getting
a large amount of foreign aid and when we have to be strictly vigi-
lant over any poesible recurrence of inflation, but it is deemed
necessary, on the other hand, for the sale of attaining a self-
support economy,that the domestic markct be gradually expanded as
the e.port incrcases.

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.98)
-117-
Conclusion
The enforcement of the economic stabilization program has throu
sound finance and financing, stcpped the currency increase and pric
rise and succeeded in almost curbing the inflation. But the unex-
pected slump of export and the slash in investnent have caused the
shrinkage of effective denand and resulted in the inoreasing stcektle
and the stagnant or declining production level. Meanwhils, keep-
ing pace with the stabilization of economy,rationalization of enter-
pr:ses has been effected and improvements have been made in pro-
duction efficiency, costs as well as in quality of products. But
the stagenant pr duction caused by insufficient purchasing power has
set a limit to tne rationalization. Those who lost their jobs in
the couree of rctionelization have submerged in cities ard villages
as the half-erployed or unemployed, thus leeving soriovs sociel
proplems, for f ture solution.
Ineswuch as our eccncry needs high level of investment in
order (1) to rehabilitate and replote the war-damages (damages on
domestic assets being 4.2 trillion yen) and capital doprociation
in and after tue wan (2) to vodernize praduction cquipment so that
the goal of export ($1,575,000, 000 as cstimated by tho Johnston
Report) necessary to acliove a self-supporting economy be atteined,
and (3) to sustain the increasing population (about ten million
increase since the end of the war), the decrease in investment
may slow down ths pace of ruhabilitation and reduce tue scele of
future self-supporting econony. Nevertheless, the oojective of 
rehabilita tion and self-support cunnot oe. achievod without etabli-
shing a tough oconomy which can stand the international competi-
tion thrcugh painstaking efforts for stabilization and re tionaliza-
tion.
We shall therefore have to convert the present stagnation into
a strong spring-board for the future development guidod by our
