894.4016 Social Matters., People., Japan, Race Problems. Racial Disturbances, Their Suppression. Massacres. Pogroms., October 2, 1946 - November 2, 1949 (File 1775)
ID: 894.4016-1775   Pages: 117   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.4016-social-matters-people-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
TYubel
171pcap
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
A-H - General Hilldring
DATE: Oct
1946
1550
ASSISTANT
FROM :
A-H - H. H. Collins, Jr.
A·H
OCT 3 1946
SUBJECT:
Nationality and Treatment of Formosans
(CM-IN 2749 and CM-I4 2841)
GENERAL HILLORING
Some 20,000 Formosans in Japan include many unruly and black
marketeer elements of the population. The question of their
treatment in view of their nationality and the problems involved
is the subject of these cables.
The State Decartment is currently taking this up with Nanking.
A proposed draft cable stating this fact is given below. War
Department concurrence in this draft has been secured. Col. Goebel
cf CaD is familiar with the matter. Your approval for the dispatch
of this cable is requested.
DArT CABLE TO SCAr as revised by War Department and cleared by
JK Secretariat:
REUPADS C 65le2 and C 65448 matter of nationality and treatment
て
Formosans has been taken up by State Department with Embassy Nanking
11.
Sept 26. See State's 498, 26 Sept to SCAF fcr POLAD which is
paraphrased copy of message sent to Nanking.
82060
War
(20ct46)

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
5o. 72
CONPIDENTIAL
SUI JECT: Reaction of Shanghai-Korean Cemmmity to Clesure
of Korean Schools and Arrests of Koreans in Japen;
Information concerning Korean Commumity.
THE HONORABLE
8
J. L IGHTON STUART
AMERICAN AMBASSADOR
4016/5-748
NANKING
SIR:
I have the honor to report that coneiderable attention
FE
was given in the local press this week to a series of meet-
ings and press conferenees held by Shanghai Koreans over the
matter of the elosure of Korean schools in Japan and ths
0
"massacre" and arrest of a large mumber of Korean nationals
0IE
curing clashes with the Japanese police at the end of April.
An "Assoeiation for the Upholding of the Rights of Koreans
in Japan", organized during the past week, proposed to hold a
Ddk
public rally on May 4 but the Burean of Social Affairs com-
pelled the association to c ancel the event as bsing in contra-
vention of the National Government's order banning all public
demonstrations. The group also abandoned its plen to draft
protests to SCAP, President Trumen end General Eiehelberger,
and instead contented itself with d rawing up a formal protest
to the Japanese Government, which included demands for the re-
opening of Korean schools, the release of arrested Koreans,
compensation to families of the victims of the April inoidents,
and recognition of the status and rights of Korean residents
in Japan as foreign nationals. It is of interest to note that
the Soviet-owmed SUIH TAI JIH PAO was the only vernacular paper
in Shanghai to carry the full t ext of the draft letter, a trans-
lation of which is enelosed.
C
In a statement to the Chinese public, released by the assci-
ation, at a press conferenee on May 3, SCAr was alleged to be
and with being misled into helping the Japanese warlords. The
statement said that the incident had provided the Japanese Govern-
ment with the pretext for an attemps to enlarge its police forme,
a method by which the warlords were trying to gogain power. Past
Japanese atrocities end acts of aggression committed in China
were reviewed and the Chiness public warned that, "the butchering
of a few mndred Koreans today may seem to be a small affair, but
this will encourage Japan to develop its militariam and one dey
she will again become a Far astern power to massaere mankind and
destroy the peace."

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
Kim Po, prinoipal of the Korean school in Shanghai and pub-
lisher of the small Korean tabloid HAN PA0, told the press that
Kereans both at home and abroad opposed the United Matioms-
sponsored general elsctions for South Korea to be held on May 10s
that at the best the eleetions would mean a partition of Korea.
An American official, Mr. Vivian L.N. Parker, Advisor to
Korea-China Liaison Mission, USmGIK, who has had clese sontest
with Shenghai's Koresn community during the past twe years, im-
formed the Consulate General that, although there might be seme
political implications in the statements appearing in the press,
he believed they primarily reflected the genuine indignatiom of
members of the Korean community over the treatment of their com-
patriots in Japan. The community has been resentful over the
matter of Koreans remaining in Japen not being granted an inde-
pendent national status and in not being accorded the same rights
as other foreign nationals resident in Japan; it feels that the
Ameriean occupation suthorities are responsible for this state
of affairs.
Kr. Parker stated that only seven to eight hundred Kereans
now remain in Shanghai. They are nearly all old residents of
China with established lusinesses and little desire to returm
to Korea. While intensely nationalistic, as a whole they have
no pronounced political leanings. Kim Po's stetement opposing
the holding of elections in South Korea is not representative
of the attitude of the community. Although anxious for the oc-
cupation of Korea to ond, members of commmnity recognize the
threat which the vast Soviet-trained North Korean army constitutes
to an independent and unified government for Korea and henee they
hope that American armod forces will remain in sufficient strength
to copy with the situation.
Er. Parker mentioned that various forees are striving to
dominate the Korean Hesidents' Association, which is the only
integrated organization in the community. One faction is the
remnant of the Kim Po group which, according to Parker, is elose
to and has the support of the ultra-reactionary C.0. Clique in
the Kuomintang. This group, however, has been unsuecessful in
establishing its influence in the Ass ciation. At present, an
enormously wealthy Korean, Sohn Chang  ik, is making a strong bid
for control of the Association through his financial position.
He 1s owner of the HAN PAO, the only Korean paper published local-
ly, and makes large contributions to the support of the Korean
school and various Korean charities. Actually he is disliked by
the Koreans as he was an arch collaborationist during the war,
supplying the Japanese Government with aeronautical equipment
which he manufactured. He has been arrested three times by the
Chinese authorities as a collaborationist, but on each oceasion
wanaged to buy his way out. It is rumored that his freedom has
cost him US $3,000,000 to date. Sohn's anxiety to establish him-
self as head of the Korean community is connected with his desire
to pave the way for his return to Korea as a respected citimen.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
3
CONPIDENTIAL
He hes attempted to ingratiate himself with all visiting Kerean
celebrities such as Syngman Rhee by offering them elaborate
entertainment.
Respectfully yours,
John M. Cabot
American Consul General
Enclomure:
1. Tranalation of full text of raft letter carried by
SHIH TAT JIH PAO.
File No. BOO
PCavenderif
Originel and copy to Nanking
Hectograph and copy to Department
Copy to Seoul
 Copy to USPOLAD, Tokyo

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
Enalusure No. 1 to Dempatch 72.dated
May 1l, 1948, f rom Consulate, Shanghai.
Copy of SHI TAI JII PAO (Soviet-owned), Shanghl,
May 5, 1948.
Korean Residents Here Draft Letter of Protest
to Jupanes Coveriment.
The Association for Upholding the Rights of Koreans
in Japan crganixed by Korean residents here was originally
scheduled to hold a rally yesterday a fternoon, but as all
necescary procedures nave not yet heen completed, it an-
nounced a postponement of the rally in compliance with the
Instruction of the local Sccial Affairs and Police Bureaus.
However, tho letter of protest to the Japanese Government
has already been drafted and passed. Following are the
contents of the letter:
"We, Korea residents in Shanghai, basing on the prinoiples
of intornational justice and of mutual respect for the soveroign-
ty of oach other's nation, do hereby lodge with your Govermment
A strong protest over your policy of interfering in the eduea-
tion of tho Horeane in Japan. At the same time we lodge our
prot st mnd bring forth ou demands as followa:
(1) e protest egainst the high-handed policy of tres-
passin o our educational independe ce wi thout regard for
the basic education of our nation; (2) e protest against the
arrest and massacre of those Koreans who aaked, in a most demo-
cratic way, for their legitimate rihts.
We smand: (1) That all intorferonces in the administra-
tion and e ducation policy of Korean schoola be imediately
stopped (2) That the tan on foreans chools be immediately lirted;
(3)  hat the whole body of  oroans who were arrested in connee-
tion with the ducation problem be immediately released and that
no prosecution against them be instituted; (4) that the govern-
ment be responsible for componsating the losses inourred by
victims of the recent incidents snd that imediate steps be
accorded to melieve and to c are for the f amilies of the vietims;
(3) That the Koreans in Japan be accordod treatment and rights
equal to thoss accorded to nationals of other forein countries
and that incidents erising fro: racial disorimination be prevented;
(s) That positive wasures be t alen to prevent the recurrence
of any incident detrimental to the lives and activities of the
Foreans.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NORTHEAST ASIAN :FFAIRS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MAY 1 9 1948
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
DEPANPAEES 30ATE 5/27/90
FOR JAPAN
No. 270
Tokyo, May 11, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
(For use of the Department only)
Subject: Korean Denonstrations in Kobe, Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch No. 265 of May 6, 1948 concerning the status
894.4016/5-1148
of Koreans in Japan and to enclose a copy of a letter dated May
4, 1948 from the American Consul at Kobe describing in detail the
Korean demonstrations there.
The letter fron the American Consul concludes that the dis-
turbances were allowed to reach such sizeable proportions because
local military authorities lacked a clear advance conception of
what constitutes "activities inimical to the Occupation" and be-
cause they were not fully advised as to the Korean situation in
Kobe. He also notes that, acting in conjunction with the American
authorities, the Japanese police have emerged from the disturb-
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
ances in a greatly strengthened position and with enhanced pres-
tige, the previous lack of which has been the cause of considerabl
concern on the part of the Occupation authorities.
Enclosure:
894.1016
Copy of a letter dated May
4, 1948 from the American
Consul at Kobe, Japan.
C
800
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 270 dated
May 11, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Political Adviser at
Tokyo, on the subject of: "Korean
Demonstrations in Kobe, Japan.
Kobe Branch, US POLAD,
May 4, 1948.
CONF IDENTIAL - FOR STATE DEPARTMENT ONLY
Willian J. Sebald, Lsquire,
United States olitical Adviser,
Tokyo.
Sir:
hs of possible assistance to the Mission in evaluating
political developments, I have the honor to submit the following
not es on the recent korean demonstrations which have taken place
in Kobe.
There are between 60,000 and 70,000 Koreans in Kobe. The
great majority of them were imported by the Japanese during the
war for manual labor. They are of a low type generally, poorly
educated and include anong their number a high percentage of thugs
and roughnecks. Moreover, they harbor a virulent hatred of the
Japanese who, while they had the opportunity, treated the Koreans
in a most cavalier manner. This large, boisterous and dissatis-
fied, alien group in the population of the city is an easy prey
to organizers and agitators. They are known to include among
their leaders a number of communists and quasi-communists who
probably receive instructions from Northern Korea or, if not that
closely associated, certainly follow the party line.
With the elections in Southern Korea imminent, any clash be-
tween Koreans in Japan and the Occupation forces, which could be
played up as demonstrating the Occupation supporting the Japanese
against the Koreans, would serve as useful propaganda ammunition
in Southern Korea, and could also be used throughout the world as
a further example of "American imperialism."
The Korean leaders were present ed with a ready made cause for
mass protest by the closing of Korean schools by the Japanese
authorities for the failure of the schools to comply with recently
enacted education legislation. No doubt, had this eminently satis-
factory cause for protest not come to hand, the leaders would have
invent ed another to obscure their underlying motive.
During the week preceding Saturday, April 24th, there were a
number of ninor public protest meetings and parades by the Koreans.
These were handled by the Japanese police without an important in-
cident and some seventy arrests of ringleaders and instigators
were made. On the afternoon of the 24th a large crowd of protest-
ing Koreans began to forn in front of the Prefectural Government
offices, across the street from the local Military Government
headquarters. As the crowd grew it became more unruly. Finally,
it surged into the Prefectural Government offices. Telephone con-
nections were ripped out and partitions were broken down. The
crowd swarmed into the Governor's office and there cornered the
Governor
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 270,
May 11, 1948.
-2-
Governor of Hyogo-ken, the Mayor of Kobe, and the Kobe Chief of
Police.
Meanwhile, the Commanding Officer of the local Military
Government team, in response to a telephone call for assistance
from the Japanese authorities made before the phones were discon-
nected, arranged for an officer and two military police to proceed
to the Governor's office to extricate him. This small detachment
succeeded in reaching the Governor and conmenced to escort him to
safety. However, when the crowd realized what was happening, it
forced the entire party back into the Governor's office and sepa-
rated the military police fron their charge. One of the military
police drew his automatic but, upon being invited by a fanatical
menber of the crowd to make him a martyr, on second thought
decided to replace it in its holster. The military police were
at first hemmed in by the crowd and jostled a bit but were not
seriously harmed or threatened. Subsequently, they were permitted
to depart without the Governor.
Without support and in fear of defenestration the Governor
and the Mayor capitulated to the mob and authorized the release
by the Japanese police of the seventy odd Koreans who had previous-
lybeen arrested.
During this period of mob rule, while the Japanese govern-
mental machinery was brought to a standstill and the Government
leaders were being coerced, the Occupation forces remained aloof,
taking no part other than sending the three military policemen to
the Governor's office on their abortive mission. I have been in-
formed by the Commanding General of Kobe Base Brigadier General
Pearson Menoher that the standing instructions to the Occupation
forces authorize them to take police action only when life or
property of the Occupation is endangered or to prevent "activities
inimical to the Occupation." The local connander did not feel
warranted to act on his own responsibility and sought authority
fron the Conmanding General, Sth Army, Lieutenant General Robert L.
Eichel berger.
Judging by the drastic measures taken when authority to act
was finally received from 8th Army, it would appear that the Com-
manding General, 8th Amy, was decidedly of the opinion that
"activities inimical to the Occupation" had occurred. This is
borne out by the strong stat ements which have been attributed to
General Eichelberger in the press.
When it was decided that the Army would take action to main-
tain order, the military forces were alerted and the Kobe Base
Provost Marshal assumed direction of the Japanese police. Steps
were promptly taken to endeavor to apprehend the Korean leaders
who had been rel eased on the Governor's orders and to round up
dissident Koreans. From the night of April 24 to April 27 about
2000 Koreans were taken into custody, the majority of them during
the first twenty-four hours. Among those arrested were most of
the leaders who had shortly before been released. while some
arrests involved specific individuals known to the Provost Marshal
or the Japanese police, the great majority were effected by
cruising
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 270,
May 11, 1948.
-3 -
cruising groups of military police accompanied by Japanese police
upon the latter's identi fication of the individuals concerned as
Koreans. Little, if any, care was taken to identify the persons
being arrested with the previous disturbances. The wholesale
arrests plus a heavy increase in the number of military patrols
and guards (the guard battalion was re-enforced) had the desired
effect, and no further trouble occurred.
On May Day, as a show of force, a parade was held at the
Base parade ground in which all troops participating, including
quartermaster troops, carried arms. The May Day labor parade,
which it was feared might be used by subversive elements to foment
trouble, was closely controlled and no incidents of importance
took place. A few agitators were arrested before they could
start anything. On the evening of May 1 the alert was officially
declared ended. Some 1200 Koreans who had not yet been released
were delivered to the custody of the Japanese police, and the
Provost Marshal relinquished to the Japanese police primary
responsibility for the maintenance of law and order.
Twelve ringleaders of the disturbance are being held by the
Military authorities for trial by Military Courts for offenses
against the Occupation. Of these, I an informed, six have been
definit ely identified as comnunists and the others are suspected
of being fellow travelers.
While the Arny, when it finally decided to move, acted with
dispatch and in a very short time restored order, it appears to
the writer that the local connand failed to give sufficient con-
sideration to the broader problen involved. It is unquestionable
that to restore order, quick and forceful action was required. On
this ground the mass arrests which were made may be justified.
However, once the immediate purpose had been accomplished, it is
hard to justify the retention in custody for a week of more than
half of the persons originally apprehended simply because time
had not been found to screen them. I enquired of the Commanding
General whether he did not fear that this action might have
decidedly disadvantageous repercussions in Korea. His reply was
that our position in Korea was hopeless in any event and we might
as well cut our losses there. His sole consideration obviously
was to restore and maintain order in the area under his command.
The disturbance was apparently permitted to reach such sizable
proportions because (1) the local military authorities had no clear
conception of what constituted "activities inimical to the Occupa-
tion," and (2) they were not fully advised with respect to develop-
ments and their portent. The renarks of the Connanding General,
Kobe base, referred to earlier, are indicative of the absence of
a definitive conception on the part of the local military authori-
ties of "activities inimical to the Occupation." With respect to
(2), the Co.manding Officer of the Hyogo Military Government team
has been made the scapegoat. He has been sumnarily relieved of
his command. I an not conversant with the details of the mili-
tary organization in this area, and I do not know specifically
what intelligence functions are the responsibility of Military
Government
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 270,
May 11, 1948.
-4-
Government, CIC, and Kobe Base G-2 respectively. I have been in-
formed by Kobe Base, however, that, when that organization assumed
the responsibility of maintaining order, it was largely dependent
upon the Japanese police for information respecting the Korean
ringleaders.
The recent disturbances have greatly strengthened the position
of the Japanese police and enhanced their prestige. Acting in con-
junction with the American Army authorities, they have had a free
hand in dealing with the most disturbing and unruly alien element
in Kobe. In fact, it was largely their intelligence upon which
the Army acted.
As regards the Army it self, it has had an opportunity to
test the efficacy of its plans for dealing with public disorders
and has been enabled to spot the weak point s in its organization.
Certainly the military authorities in this area are now much more
alert to developments and the necessity for constant vigilance
than they were heretofore. This has been accomplished without a
major mishap. The only casualty suffered by the Occupation forces
was one colored military policeman who was wounded by a second
during a midnight chase after a fugitive Korean.
Respectfully yours,
/s/ Douglas Jenkins, Jr.
American Consul
DJ
cgf
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
894.4016/5-1148
DESP.27O FROM TOKYO
FILE
RECORD COPY
NN
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
1948
FAP
184
22_110

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY 1 :1948
PC/K
COPY
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
No. 270
Tokyo, May 11, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
(For use of the Department only)
Subject: Korean Demonstrations in Kobe, Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch No. 265 of May 6, 1948 concerning the status
of Koreans in Japan and to enclose a copy of a letter dated May
4, 1948 from the American Consul at Kobe describing in detail the
Korean demonstrations there.
The letter from the American Consul concludes that the dis-
turbances were allowed to reach such siseable proportions because
local military authorities lacked a clear advance conception of
what constitutes "activities inimical to the Occupation" and be-
cause they were not fully advised as to the Korean situation in
Kobe. He also notes that, acting in conjunction with the American
authorities, the Japanese police have emerged from the disturb-
ances in a greatly strengthened position and with enhanced pres-
894.40
tige, the previous lack of which has been the cause of considerable
concern on the part of the Occupation authorities.
Enclosure:
Copy of a letter dated May
4, 1948 from the American
Consul at Kobe, Japan.
800
RBFinn:cgf
Original and osalid to the Department.
CONFIDENTIAL
A true copy

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD FOPM NO. 64
NA
Mr. Allipon
Mr. Bond
5/25/48
DATE:
Mr. Williams
TO
Mrs. Dunning
FROM : NA - Mr. Frelinghuysen
sUT: De satch No. 122
Attached herewith is statement of
Major Gen. William T. Dean, Military Governor
of South Korea, concerning the Korean riots
in Japan ceused by the closing of Korean
Schools.
The brief summary by the Political
Adviser is adequate coverage of this release.
Hodt
NA:HoHFrelinghuysen/ggg

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
No. 122
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DclR
UNCLASSIFIED
Office of U. S. Political Adviser
Seoul, Korea, Hqs., XXIV Corps, APO 235
c/o Postmaster, San Franoisco, Calif.
May 12, 1948
1R
SUBJECT: Military Governor's Statement on Korean Riots
in Japan
<94.00
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFTAIRS
THE HONORABLE
1948
894.4016/5-1248
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
STR:
With reference to Seoul Polad telegram No. 329 of
1/
May 7, I have the honor to enclose a copy of the state-
ment released to the press on May 6 by Major General
William F. Dean, Military Governor in South Korea, con-
cerning the Korean riots in Japan caused by the closing
74.42
of Korean schools. General Dean points out that Koreans
resident in Japan are entitled to the same educational
privileges in Japanese schools as other non-Japanese
residents not attached to the occupation forces and
that, in addition, Japanese law provides for the opera-
tion of private schools that meet proper standards.
Reminding the Koreans that Koreans now in Japan are
there of their own choice and must obey local laws,
General Dean points to 23 Korean schools in Kanagawa
Prefecture that have already applied in writing for in-
spection and accreditation as private schools under
Japanese law.
01E
Respectfully yours,
a eD
Ja0l6
CS/ V
Josoph E. Jacobs
xclk
United States Political Adviser
Englosure:
1. Gen. Dean's Press Release
of May 6, 1948
Original and hectograph to Department
C0:
Office of U. S. Political Adviser
Tokyo
800
JWRozier/mec
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Sooul Polad
UNCLASSIFIED
Despatch No. 122 of May 12, 1948
General Deen's Answer to Written Press Questions of May 6. 1948
Bach week since taking over my duties as Military Gover-
nor in South Korea I have anticipated receipt of written
questions from the press. Your questions have been one of
my main souroes of information as to public opinion and
concern.
The five questions you have submitted this week regard-
ing the Korean school situation in Japan are closely related.
In view of this fact, and the fact that I went into consider-
able detail regarding the subjeot in our April 22 press
conference, I can only reiterate what I said then.
Communist-inspired Koreans in Japan can only lose by
such suicidal defiance of law as illustrated in the indus-
trial areas of Kobe and Osaka. Communists profit from any
large-scale disorder in Japan and this is the first time
they have succeeded in two and one-half years. Election day
is only four days from now. It will be the first opportunity
Korean people have had in more than four thousand years to
play a personal part in choosing a government whose responsi-
bility it will be to shape their country's destiny. The
activities of some Koreans in Japan are nothing but attempts
to influence their native land's first democratic elections.
Investigations by our Military Goverpment liaison office
in Japan reveal that recent public disorders there have been
caused by an unfortunate misunderstanding of the educational
rights, privileges, and responsibilities of Koreans living
there. This unrest has been exaggerated by the politioally
motivated activities, and manipulations of unscrupulous and
irresponsible leaders within the community of Koreans.
Koreans residing in Japan are entitled to the same edu-
cational privileges in Japanese schools afforded all other
non-Japanese residents who are not attached to the Occupation
Force. It is the obligation of the Japanese Government to
provide education for all such residents, end to enforce
their inherent right to equal opportunity and equal treatment.
The operation of private schools is provided for in
proper Japanese laws. Koreans, as well as other non-Japanese
not attached to the Occupation Forces, are entitled to spon-
sor and support private educational institutions. All such
schools are required to maintain certain minimum standards
in conformity with recognized educational practice throughout
the world. The standard to measure school facilities, text-
book requirements, and teacher qualifications are all estab-
lished after review and approval by SCAP and apply equally
to all such private schools. There is no objection to the
teaching of Korean or other foreign languages in suoh sohools,
provided application is made to teach such subjects.
Certain selfish individuals, who proclaim themselves
representatives of the Korean community have taken advantage
of popular misconception of the foregoing facts to advance
their own narrow political interests. These so-called
"leaders"
-1
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
"leaders" are performing a disservice to their own people
and to Korean children who deserve and are entitled to
worthwhile education. "Political" and "Social Thought"
schools, established for advancement of radical philoso
phies, without regard to fundamental educational standards,
are not deserving of public support.
It is well to remember that all Koreans remaining in
Japan do so of their own free choice and with full knowledge
that their residence in Japan subjects them to all appro-
priate local laws and regulations, as are all residents of
Japan other than United Nations nationals. This was made
clear to all Korean residents of Japan in a press release
by SCAP in November 1946.
According to information just received by the Office
of Foreign Affairs, 23 Korean sohools in Kanagawa Prefec-
ture have already applied in writing for inspeotion and
acoreditation as private schools under Japanese law.
The Korean League headquarters in Tokyo has announoed
in its own publioation that it has olosed the schools under
its direotion, pending the outcome of negotiations with
Japanese government authorities. END
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING. AIRGRAM
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
NORTHEAST ASIAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AIRGRAIL: SLNT
249
E STRICTED
From:
American Consulate Goneral
Shanchai, China
S NA
ah
NO. :
A-603
Date: July 20, 1043
Lailod:
Ju1 30, 1948
SLCSTALT
Ag. 2. 1 3:04 pm
ATN
894.4016/7-2948
3
D
APLA
A-U33, J1y 20, 1940.
IN5
DS/R
0
Accordin; to a Contral News A ency dispatch from
CiA
Tokyo dated Jily 23, the tribal chieftain of the Aimus
PC
in Holkaido callod on General Shang Chon, head of the
Chinose Mission in Japan, to requost the help of Presi-
dont Chiang Kai Chck for the 3, 0oo Ainus who have long
heon subjected to Japanese opprossion. The roquest was
based on the right of self determination of minorities
and tho hope vas cxpressed that Japan would eeade
a tribal rosorvation for tho Ainus so that they can
preserve their indopendonco 'and identity.
Cabot
AUG 11 1948
D:dgar:f
Filo No. 300
Original and liocto to Dept.
Copy to Nanking
Copy to Tokyo
王
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fles with netatlen of aetlen taken.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTW
UNITED STATES CF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIOWSION OF
VEE
NCR HEAST ASIAN AFFANRS
FOR JAPAN
No. 580
CONFIDENTIAL
10/21/48
19/8 SEP 22 PM 2 53
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Status of Koreans in Japan.
SIVIS
4
The
Honorable
The Secretary of State,
2
Washington.
895
Sir:
1
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of a study dated
August 16, 1948 on the subject of Koreans in Japan which was pre-
pared as a staff study of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied rowers. The study was prepared by this Mission in
FE
its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters and
was concurred in by all the other concerned sections. It was sub-
2
mitted to the Chief of taff under cover of a "check sheet" of
August 16 and was returned by him to the Diplomatic Section under
01D31
cover of a "check sheet" of August 29 expressing general approval.
Ds
Copies of these "check sheets" are al so enclosed.
OLI
1T8
It vill be noted that the Chief of taff states that this study
will he held as a Luide for action when the problem of the status
of Koreans in Japan arises in more concrete form. One of the recom-
mendations, with regard to relaxation of restrictions on the tran
fer of currency and property of Roreans desiring repatriation from
Japan to korea, was specifically approved for immediate action and
implementation of this decision is now in process by this Mission.
It may be of interest to the Department that the Chief of Staff
in returning the study noted in pen upon his comments that the
"Commander in Chief comaends the Diplomatic Section on this study
and desires it be available when issues are discussed later on the
highest level." Foreign Service Officer Richard B. FINN is the
original drafter of the study and the commendation by the Commander
in Chief has been conveyed to him.
A copy of this despatch is being forwarded to the United
States Special Representative in Korea. The study in draf form
was discussed with Anbassador UCCIO when he was last in Tokyo,
and
CONFIDENTIAL
71.15

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 580,
Septmber 3, 1948.
-2-
and its present status is therefore being brought to his attention
for his information, with a covering letter calling attention to
the Chief of Staff's decisions with regard thereto.
Respectfully yours,
Lorisence.
N. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of staff study
concerning Koreans
in Japan, dated
August 16, 1948.
2.
Copy of "check sheet"
dated August 16, 1948.
3.
Copy of "check sheet"
dated August 29, 1948.
701
CCoville:cgf
Original and hectograph to Department
cc: U.S. Special Representative, Seoul
CONFIDENTIAL
01.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despateh No. 50o deted
September 3, 1948 from the Offise of the
United States Political Adviser at Tekye,
on the subject of: "Status of Koreens in
Japan."
CONFIDENTIAL
August 16, 1948.
STAFF STUDY CONCERTING KOREANS IN JAPAN
I. THL PROBLEM
To recommend policies for the treatment of Koreans in Japan
after a Korean Government has heen duly established.
I1. FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
1. There are now about 600,000 Koreans in Japan; most of
these were born in Korea or in Japan of Korean parents. It is esti-
mated that on a monthly average 650 Koreans enter Japan illegally
and that 400 are repatriated or deported to Korea.
Large numbers of the Koreans in Japan were brought in by
the Japanese before and during the war as forced labor. As a re-
sult, it is estimated that nearly half of the Koreans in Japan are
adult males; about one-third are children and slightly over one-
sixth adult females.
2. SOAP policy toward Koreans in Japan has been twofold: a)
in accordance with a Far Eastern Commission policy decision (FEC-
034/3, 5 June 1946), Koreans have been treated as liberated people
and therefore strenuous efforts have been made to repatriate to
Korea all Koreans in Japan who wished to return; b) Koreans who
voluntarily continued to reside in Japan have been presumptively
considered for purposes of treatment as retaining their Japanese
nationality and are to be so considered until such time as a duly
established Korean Government accords them recognition as Korean
nationals. This latter policy was recommended in radio C 61223,
21 May 1946, from SCAP to WARCOS and approved in W 89799, 31 May
1946, from WARCOS.
In accordance with SCAt policy, therefore, Koreans in Japen
are subject to Japanese law and are treated like Japanese nationals.
SCAP policy towards Koreans in Japan has been generally outlined in
two press releases issued in November 1946.
3. It is estimated that over 900,000 Koreans who were in
Japan at the war's end have been repatriated to Kores. Mass repe-
triation of Koreans from Japan ended in December 1946. Some of
these Koreans, perhaps 20,000, have illegally re-entered Japem.
Regulations in regard to the personal property and household ef-
fects that Koreans might take with them to Korea have beem steedily
relaxed so that now they are allowed to take as accompenied bageage
all that can be carried; as unaccompanied baggage they are permitted
to ship 500 pounds of personal effects and 4000 pounds of tools,
11gt
CONFIDTITIAL

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
- 2 -
light machinery and business equipment, provided clear owmership m
or prior to 2 September 1945 is established. This 4000-pound mard-
mum could be rai sed upon SCAP approval of specific applicatioms.
(SCAPIN 927/16, 16 July 1947) By SCAPIN 927 of 7 May 1946 Korem
repatriates were permitted to take with them 1000 in Japanese
currency.
4. Under Japanese law, Koreans (both in Korea and in Japan)
are considered to possess only Japanese nationality; Korean national-
ity is considered to have been extinguished by Japan's anmexation of
Korea in 19l0. Koreans who remain in Japan will presumably be con-
sidered under Japanese law as retaining Japanese nationality, regard-
less of the effect of establishment of the Korean Government.
5. A new Korean Government for that portion of Korea south of
38 degrees north latitude was established on 15 August 1948. This
Government will in due course be recognized by the United States
Government and probably by at least several others of the United
Nations as the Government of Korea; this recognition will probably
be delayed until the General Assembly of the United Nations has con-
sidered the report of its Korean commission at the Assembly session
beginning in Sept ember. The United States Government has already
informed the Korean Government that it regards the Government of the
Republic of Korea as the government envisaged by the United Nations
General Assembly resolutions of 14 November 1947.
6. The Korean nationality law as enacted by the South Korem
Interim Government (rublic Act No. 11, 11 May 1948) provides that
any person whose father is Korean as well as any person whose mother
is Korean and whose father either is unknown or has no nationality
shall have Korean nationality; Koreans whose names are entered in a
Japanese family register and who have canceled or in the future
cancel such registry shall be c∞nsidered restored to Korean nation-
ality. By the terms of Article l00 of the new Korean Constitution
this law will remain in effect if not in conflict with the Constitu-
tion, and it is therefore likely that Fublic Act No. 1l will remain
in effect as a law of the Korean Government.
It would appear, therefore, that most of the Koreans in
Japan either possess Korean nationality or could by the act of can-
celing their Japanese registry acquire Korean nationality.
1II. DISCUSSION OF THE PROBLEM
1. Those Koreans who are continuing to reside in Japan appear
for the most part reluctant to return to Korea. Prospects in Korea--
both North Korea and South Korea--are extremely uncertain because of
depressed economic conditions and dangerous polit&cal frictien. On
the other hand many Koreans have lived all their lives in Japan,
have close ties of family and friendahip in Japan, and in some cases
have acquired considerable financial interests and assets in Japem.
2. Koreans present many problens, however, both to the Ooeuge
tion and to the Japanese. Politically, Koreans have attempted to
establish a large degree of autonomy in Japan. Many of them have
tended more and more to participate in communist activity,  thet
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
-3 -
now the League of Koreans Residing in Japan, the prineipal Koreen
organization in Japan, is largely dominated by communists. Koreens
moving illegally between Japan and Korea serve as the link between
Japanese communists and those on the continent of Asia--Korean,
Chinese, and Russian. Korean cooperation with Japanese communist
organizations, particularly labor and educational, is pronounced.
It should be noted, however, that there are still fairly strong
rightist elements among Noreans in Japan, particularly those clos
to the leaders of the new Korean Government; there is reason to be-
lieve that many Koreans submit to c∞maunist dictation only under
duress. Economically, Koreans are known to engage heavily in illegal
transactions and to have acquired large amounts of "new yen" which
appear to be beyond the control or tax authority of the Japanese
Government.
Socially the Koreans represent a group which does not readi-
ly assimilate to the Japanese both because of the long-standing prej-
udice of the latter and because of the uneducated and generally
underprivileged character of most of the Koreans in Japan. Since
Japan's surrender, Koreans have attempted to insist upon preferred
treatment in Japan and although legally they have not been successful
in this, they ha ve succeeded practically in isolating themselves from
Japanese control and in asserting privileges which Japanese authori-
ties have been reluctant to contest. The recent riots in Osaka and
Kobe arising from refusal by the Koreans to comply with orders of the
Japanese Government afforded a test of the extent of Korean autonomy
in Japan; Korean resistance was put down and they complied with Japa-
nese law. The riots have of course increased the bitterness between
Japanese and Koreans, and it is undeniable that the Japanese would be
only too happy to see all Koreans leave Japan.
3. Establishment on 15 August 48 of a new Korean Government,
which is expected to be recognized in due course by the United States
and several others of the United Nations, necessitates a re-examina-
tion of the problem of Koreans in Japan, both because of the two
statements made publicly by SCAP in November 1946 that Koreans in
Japan would be treated as Japanese nationals until establishment of
a duly recognized Korean Government and because the character of the
governmental cont rol in Korea will have changed from a limited,
interim nature to that of sovereign, independent state. The fact
that the United States has taken the lead in encouraging the estab-
lishment of an independent Korean Government is also a strong reason
for exploring mens of solving this problem.
4. From the standpoint of the three governments primarily con-
cerned--the United States, Korea, and Japan--it is highly desirable
that as many Koreans in Japan as possible return to Korea. The
large Korean group in Japan, which is for the most part unassimila-
ble in Japan and the source of dangerous friction with the Japanese,
constitutes a strong element of instability in the Far East and the
cause of unfavorable propaganda directed against the United Stetes
as the principal occupying power in Japan. From the Koreen polmt of
view, the Korean community in Japan is potentially a valuable aseet
to Koree
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
unclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, september 4, 1948.
-4-
to Korea in manpower as well as in skilled training and financial
means acquired in Japan; although assimilation of this group would
not  e easy in Aorea, it would he incomparably simpler than in Japan.
Korean: in Japan are for the Japane se an almost complete liability
because they draw heavily on the war-strained Japanese economy and
contribute little in taxes or in constructive effort.
5. The supreme Commander hae peen eapowered by the Far Eastern
Somission to direct the repatriation of Koreans if he finds it neces-
sary (Fa0 034/3, 5 Jun 46), but the policy of the United States in
Japan has been that repatriation of oreans should be on a voluntary
basis. snforced repatriation would create tremendous ill feeling
on the part oI noreans toward the United States and would necessi-
tate diflicult financial and cocial udjustments in both Japan and
Korea. rorcible return in a hort period of a large mass of people,
many of then indi ent and unsettled, would create a major problem in
Korea.
6. CAi policy therefore should be to continue to encourage
voluntary repatriation by .oreans. It is accordingly recommended
that rustrictions affectin the repatriation of Koreans be removed
as far as possible.
A CArIn should be issued which will amend present regula-
tions concernin the currency which Koreans may take with them from
Japan. It is believed that a SCArIN which relates solely to Korean
repatriation will have special publicity value at this time. This
StArIN should not be issued until consultations now taking place with
the appropriate authorities in Korea as to the details of currency
transfer fron Japan to Korea heve bean completed.
SOAr1N 927, annex 6, pra. 3, of 7 may 194ó permits individ-
ual Koreans repatriating to Korea to take a naximum of looo in Japa-
nese currency with them. This fi ure should be raised to ¥100,000
for each repatriating Korean fanily, an mount vhich will enable all
but the nost wealthy Koreans to take wit! them all their cash and if
necessary to convert their real property tmsets in Japan to cash for
transfer to Rorea.
J0Ar IN 927/16 of 16 July 47 1imits the amount of personal
property unl household effects that individual repatriates may take
Ati. then to 5oo pounds plus what can be carried ty the repatriates.
Routine unaecoupanied shipment of lo00 pounds or tools, light ma-
chinery une tusiness ecuipment, if omet on or prior to 2 September
1945, is alss anthorized; shipment of aaounts in excess of 4000
pounds may al so be aut horiz ed efter speci fic application to SCAP. It
is helieved that the date of 2 September 1945 in S0APIN 927/16 is no
longer realistic and that all reference to date of ownership should
be deleted. The weight limitations in Sh: 1X 927/16 are considered
reasonable and should in most cases permit repatriates to return to
Korea with all their personel belongings, household effects, and
professional instruments.
Those Korean repatriates who hold currency of greater value
than 1oo,000 should be permitted to protect these assets by deposit
or other safe-keepin: in Japan in the name of the Korean owmer.
It is
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enalosure No. I to Tokyo's
No. 580, Septmber 3, 1948.
-5-
It is believed that these allowances of currency md ba
gage are sufficiently generous to induce the repatriation of Kereems
presently inclined to return, and at the same time are not so high
as to permit large-scale cloaking of Japanese assets and eoonomie
activity in korea. The loss suffered by the Japanese economy, -
though it may be somewhat considerable, is not likely to be serious,
and any loss suffered by Japan will be reflected by a corresponding
gain in Korea. In any case, the twofold interests of stimulating
repatriation by Koreans and of encouraging the development of the
Korean Government will be served.
SCArIN 4578-A of 24 September 1947 has directed the return
to Koreans who have been repatriated to Korea of most of their per-
sonal effects which had been detained in Japan. No charge of di
crimination can therefore be made in regard to the treatment accorded
later repatriates by Koreans who have already return to Korea from
Japan.
With the conclusion of mass repatriation of Koreans in
December 1946, responsibility for repatriation of individual Koreans
unable to take advantage of this repatriation due to circumstances
beyond their control passed from G-3 Section to G-1 Section. If mass
repatriation is to be reopened, responsibility should properly re-
turn to G-3 for this large-scale operation. Rail transportation,
processing facilities at Sasebo Reception Center, and SCAP-controlled
shipping are adequate to support a program repatriating up to
120,000 Koreans monthly upon as little as 30 days notice. A more
comprehensive program could be arranged but it is not considered
necessary. It is felt that the determining factor limiting monthly
repatriation under this program will be processing facilities in
Korea and the ability of the Korean economy to absorb the additional
burden of these returnees. Settlement of this problem must await dis
cussion of the entire program with representatives of CG, USAFIK, and
of the Korean Government. And, finally, all of the procedures and
mechanics of the repatriation program should be included in a Repe-
triation Agreement (replacing the Tokyo Conference Repatriation
Agreements as approved 12 March 1946) signed by representatives of
SCAP and the Korean Government.
Upon confirmation of the above Repatriation Agreement, and
after all Koreans now residing in Japan have been advised of the
contemplated repatriation program and of their rights and position
upon acceptance or non-acceptance of repatriation, it will be neces-
sary that all Koreans in Japan indicate their acceptance or refusal
of repatriation. In this way also the flow of Koreans to the Sasebo
Reception Center and the handling of their effects can be controlled.
7. This relaxation of rules conceming transfer of current
and property by repatriates to Korea should be accompenied by publio
statements issued by this Headquarters explaining the new rules and
expressing the hope that Koreans who have remained in Japan for
three years since the liberation of their country will now see fit
to return and devote their efforts to the building of a new Koree.
It should be mphasised that the opportunity is now being presented
to Kerems
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 4, 1948.
- 6 -
to Koreans to overcome the suffering and handicaps of the leng yeems
of oppression and to return to their homeland free; for three years
their count rymen have worked unc easingly to lay the fowedatiome 
an independent Korea and the time has now arrived when all Koreems
genuinely eager to advance the wel fare of their nation should jein
in that effort. It should be added that those Koreans who wish to
maintain permanent residence in Japan are under no moral obligati
to return to Korea.
8. It is highly probable that in spite of relaxation of rules
concerning transfer of currency and property to Korea, large mmbers
of Koreans wll prefer to remain in Japan. The basic problm is to
determine policies in regard to these remaining Koreans which will
reduce friction and instability in Japan and at the same time not
impair the prestige of the Occupation.
Koreans remaining in Japan are Japanese nationals by Jape-
nese law and for the most part are also Korean nationals by the
terms of Public Act No. 1l of the South Korean Interim Govermment.
It appears therefore that most of the Koreans in Japan wdll have, or
could readily acquire, dual nationality status--Japanese and Korem.
It is considered undesirable for SCAP to adopt any position
which will have the effect of forcing Koreans in Japan to assme 
clusively Japanese nationality or of prejudicing any future treaty
settlenent between Korea and Japan as to the nationality of Koreans
in Japan. In a matter of such tremendous importance and long-term
significance as nationality, it would be inadvisable for the occupy-
ing authorities to insist that a conclusi ve election be made at this
time.
SCAP should emphasize by public statements that final deter
mination of the nationality of Koreans who continue to reside in
Japan is a matter which must await the conclusion of a general
treaty settlement or some other definitive international agreement
involving Japan and Korea.
9. It is imperative that SCAf be prepared to deal with claims
by Koreans in Japan that their Korean nationality entitles them to
preferred treatment in Japan.
Preferred treatment in Japan is accorded to nationals of
countries which are now members of the United Nations and in certain
instances to other foreigners in Japan. Foreigners who are not
United Nations nationals are entitled to supplementary food rations,
to immunity against special war taxes imposed by the Japanese Govern-
ment, and to limited financial privileges. United Nations nationals
possess these privileges and in addition are entitled among other
things to special legal protection, to guarantee in full of their
bank deposits, and to restitution of their property wrongfully seised
by the Japanese. Koreans in Japan are entitled to none of these
privileges.
Is the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, Septmber 3, 1948.
-7-
If the treatment now accorded United Nations nationals or
other foreigners in Japan were extended to Koreans, the podtion of
Koreans in Japan ould become further entrenched in direet confliet
with ScAP policy to encouraLe their return to Korea. In addition,
a very heavy burden would be imposed on the Japanese economy and
the United States Governmert hy the necessity of providing extre
food rations to oreans. It is estimated that such extra rations
would require 80,287 additional tons of food imports annually into
Japan co stin the Unit ed States Government 12,O43,000 U.S. dollars.
Even if policy considerations urged that favored treatment be accorded
Koreans in Japan, it is believed that the cost required would be i
possible to meet without large appropriations from the United States
Congress.
Koreans in Japan are likely to advance numerous other claims
which would entitle them substantially to the privileges now ao-
corded United  ations nationals and nationals of Far Eastern Com-
mission countries in Japan, purticularly in regard to restitution
of property seized by the Japanese during Japanese occupation of
Korea and claims for damage suffered at the hands of the Japanese.
Koreans are also likely to demand the special legal protection now
accorded United Nations nationals in Japan. Because of the veto
power held by the Soviet Union over admission of new members to the
United Nations and the Far astern Commission, it is highly unlike-
Ly that the Government of the Republic of Korea will be admitted as
a member to either of tiese bodies and hence technically Koreans in
Japan will not be entitled to the special rights and protoction
grant ed nationals in Japan of the United Nations countries and of
the Far Lastern Commission countries. Furthermore, it is considered
that, because of the complex legal and financial problems involved,
Koreans in Japan should not be given any special rights or proteetion
until a decision to that effect has been reached by the highest
Allied or United States authorities.
10. To support the position taken by SCAP in regard to Koreans
in Japan--that they should not receive United Nations national or
other foreign national rights and privileges, the entire problem
should be referred to the Korean Government for confidential con-
sideration on a diplomatic level. Representatives of the United
States Government in Seoul could act in behalf of SCAP in this matter.
The solution most to be preferred as a result of this nego-
tiation would be legislation by the Korean Government which recog-
nized the special position of the large Korean population in Japan
and specified that only those Koreans who transferred their resi-
ntpan
dence to Korea would be considered Korean nationals and that the
人
matter of conferring Korean nationality on Koreans who remain in
Japan would await conclusion of a general treaty settlement.
Another effective solution would be a public statement by
the Korean Government that because Koreans in Japan possess both
Korean and Japanese nationality, the Korean Government would not ac-
cord recognition to their Korean nationality as long as they
contimme
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosuro No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, Septamb 3, 1948.
-8-
continue to reside in Japan except in the case of those who legiti-
mately enter Japan after the establishment of the Korean Gevermment.
Both the British and United States Governments take this poition,
with minor exceptions, in regard to their nationals in Japan who also
possess Japanese nationality. It is believed that to request the
Korean Government to make a public statement to this effoet would be
not unreasonable.
In any case an undertaking by the Korean Government that it
would not press for recognition of the Korean nationality of Koreans
in Japan would reduce the threat of exaggerated claims by Koreans in
Japan.
ll. Regardless of the effect of diplomatic conversations with
the Korean Government, SCAP should undertake by public statments
after such conversations have been completed, to impress upon Koreans
in Japan their duty to retum to Korea and should state that because
they have chosen to remain in Japan for three years ince their
country's liberation and because they possess Japanese nationality
in addition to Korean nationality, they will in accordance wdth stand-
ard international principles be subject to all applicable laws and
regulations of the Japanese Government. Furthermore, by remaining
in Japan they will be subject to the laws of Japan when the Ocoupe-
tion ands.
Koreans in Japan will doubtless charge that the Oceupation
is discriminating against them, particularly because the Formosan-
Chinese who have remained in Japan have been given the privilege of
registering with Chinese consular authorities and thereby acquiring
United Nations national privileges. This charge can be met most ef-
fectively by a statement to the effect that China is one of the United
Nations and one of the Far Eastern Commission countries and as such
entitled to certain privileges by international agreement.
12. Korems who enter Japan legally with the appropriate docu-
mentation of the Korean Government should be recognised by SCAP as
foreign nationals although not as United Nations nationals, and
treated accordingly. It is believed that this policy wdll serve as
an added inducement to Koreans who are now in Japan and who wish to
improve their status here to retum to Korea and seek re-entry. In
this way Koreans who can be of benefit to the Occupation and to Japan
will be enahled to enter Japan and acquire foreign national status.
Special consideration should be given to technicians and to university
students because of the close technological and cultural connection
that has existed in the past between Korea and Japan. Consideration
should also be given to any long-term policies the United States
Government may formulate in regard to cooperation between Koree and
Japan.
It should be emphasised that Koreans who leave Japam with
the expectation of returning must first establish residence in Kores
and that their re-entry to Japan will be governed by the polieies of
the Occupation.
13. It
CONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
- 9 -
13. It is not certain whether the Korean Government will de
sire to request accreditation of a representative to the Supreme
Commander. It is likely that such a request will not be made by
the Korean Government intil the General Assembly of the United
Nations, in its session opening in September, has acted on the
report of the United Nations Temporary Commission on Korea.
If the Korean Government does not seek to establish a
mission in Japan, there will appear to be no procodure by which
Koreans in Japan may assert and register their Korean nationality,
unless this service is requested of a nation already represented in
Japan. If therefore a Korean mission is not set up in Japan, it
would be difficult for procedural reasons for Koreans in Japan to
establish their Korean nationality and claim preferred treatment.
In this event the League of Koreans Residing in Japan may attempt to
act in behalf of the Korean Government and of Koreans in Japan; such
an atteapt should not be recognized for the principal reason that the
League has no official status.
If the Korean Government should in due course roquest that
a representative be accredited to the Supreme Commander, it is reo-
V
ommended that such a request be granted because of the desire of the
Unit ed States Government that the Korean Government assume the normal
functions of a sovereign state and because of the assistance that a
cooperative Korean mission could give toward facilitating a solution
of the problems raised by Koreans in Japan.
The functions, size, and composition of a Korean missim
in Japan should as far as possible be defined in advance of its 
tablishment by discussions on a diplomatic level with the Koreen
Government.
14. No distinction should be made by SCAP at this time between
Koreans from south of the 38th parallel and those from North Kores,
because of the policy to encourage all Koreans regardless of their
place of connection in Korea to return to Korea and because of the
United States desire that all Koreans eventually be united under one
sovereign, independent govemment.
Only 351 Koreans have been repatriated from Japan to North
Korea since the SCAP repatriation program began. It is estimated,
however, that about 200,000 Koreans from North Korea are still in
Japan. It is probable that few of this group can be persuaded to
return to North Korea but it is considered advisable to urge as meay
of them as possible to go to South Korea to establish residence.
The distinction between North and South Korea clearly
raises the problem of subversive activities by Koreans. SCAP poliey
in this regard should be to rid Japan of as many Korean commumists
as possible and to prevent their re-entry to Japan. It is suggested
that if deemed advisable the appropriate autherities of the Koreen
Government
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
-10-
Government should be informed of the records and activities of all
Korean communists who return to Korea so that necessary measures
can be taken.
15. A more effective patrol should be established in the Korem
Strait between Japan and Korea in order to reduce illegal ntry by
Koreans into Japan. Such illegal entry has resulted in widespreed
smuggling and also served as a means of entry into Japan by commist
agents. Law enforcement in Japan and Korea is made difficult by this
large-scale illegal traffic in people and goods.
Since Japanese patrol craft are limited to Japan's terri-
torial waters, representations should be made to the Korean Govern-
ment on a di plomatic level urging that it improve its coastal petrol
and assist in reducing illegal traffic.
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
1.
A SCAPIN should be issued to the Japanese Govermment author-
izing the reopening of mass repatriation of Koreans; Koreams who
are returning to Korea for the purpose of establishing residense
there should be permitted to take or send to Korea up to 1o0,000
and in addition the personal effects, tools, light machinery and
business equipment permitted by SCArIN 927/16, regardless of the
date of acquisition of ownership and regardless of whether the
baggage is accompanied or not. The procedure for transfer of
yen from Japan to Korea should be worked out with the authorities
in Korea. Any property held by Koreans in excess of that which
they are permitted to take with them should be held in the name
of the individual Korean owner and protected in accordance with
Japanese law.
A Repatriation Agreement should be drawn up in accordance
with the above recommendation and signed by representatives of
SCAP and the appropriate authorities in Korea.
2.
Diplomatic discussions, which should be kept confidential,
should be opened with the korean Government in order that the
Korean Government recognise the special status of Koreans in
Japan in one of the following ways:
legislation that only those Koreans in Japan who re-
turn to Korea to establish residence will be considered
Korean nationals pending final settlement between Japan
and Korea of the nationality of Koreans in Japan, or
issuance of a public statement to the effect that since
Koreans in Japan possess Japanese nationality by Jape-
nese law and since they have chosen to remain in Japen,
the Korean Government will not accord recognition to
their Korean nationality so long as they continue to
reside in Japan, or
c. an informal undertaking that the Korean Government will
not press for recognition and special treatment for
Koreans in Japan.
3. Koreeme
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
-11-
3.
Koreans who return to Korea to establish residenee and
then re-enter Japan in compliance with the necessary proeedure
should be treated by SCAP as foreign nationals, although not
as United Nations nationals.
4.
If the Korean Government so requests, a Korean represente-
tive should be accredited to the Supreme Commander and a Koreen
mission in Japan permitted after diplomatic discussions with the
Korean Government to define the mission's status in Japan.
5.
No distinction should be officially made at this time be
tween the treatment accorded South Koreans and that accorded
North Koreans.
6.
The Korean Governnent should be requested to take appro-
priate measures to increase and improve patrol activities in
the Korean strait in order to reduce illegal traffic between
Japan and Korea.
7.
A comprehensive press statement or series of press releases
should be issued simultaneously in Japan and in Korea as soon
after the establishment of the Korean Government as is feasible.
These public statements by SCAt should emphasize the following
points:
a.
SCAI policy is to encourage those Koreans in Japan who
do not wi sh to become Japanese nationals to return to
their homeland. Restrictions on the transfer of their
property to Korea have therefore been greatly relaxed
and a considerable strain on the Japanese oconomy risked.
b. In the interest of strengthening the new Korean Govern-
ment, those Koreans whc have remained abroad for three
years since their country's liberation should now re-
turn and help their countrymen who have labored to
establish a free, independent government.
c.
Koreans who do not take this opportunity to assist their
country by returning to Korea but who remain in Japan
will not have their nationality status affected at this
time. Their nationality will be settled by Korea and
Japan at some future time.
d.
Koreans who remain in Japan possess Japanese national-
ity, even though they may also possess Korean nation-
ality, and since they have voluntarily continued to
reside in Japan, they have chosen to be treated in the
same way as Japanese nationals.
Charges by Koreans in Japan that they are being dis-
criminated against because Formosan-Chinese in Japan
receive United Nations national treatment should not
be answered directly. It should be pointed out, how
ever, that Korea is not yet one of the United Nations
and therefore is not entitled by international agree-
ment to the rights and privileges accorded members of
the United Nations.
f. Kereans
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
-12-
f. Koreans can show their desire to be Koreans by returm
to their homeland. Those who remain in Japan will be
treated in the same way as Japanese.
8.
For the purpose of drafting press releases on the Koreem
problan, an inter-staff committee should be established wdth
instructions to recomend to the Chief of Staff release of press
statements at any time it deems appropriate. This oommitte
should consist of representatives from Korean-Ryukyuan Division
of the Deputy Chief of Staff, G-2 Section, Diplomatic Seetion,
Legal Section, and Major K. J. Goff, U.S. Army Military Govern-
ment in Korea Liaison Officer; representatives of other staff
sections shuuld be invited to participate where considered
necessary.
Concurrence by:
G-1 Section
G-2 Section
G-3 Section
G-4 Section
Civil Property Custodian
Civil Transportation Section
Economic and Scientific Section
Judge Advocate General
Legal Section
RBFinn:cgf
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 900
dated September 3, 1948 from the Ofriee
of the United States Politisal Ade
at Tokyo, on the subject of: "Stetus 
Koreans in Japan."
CONFIDENTIAL
GENERAL HLADQUARTLRS
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CHECK SH_ET
DS/WJS/RBF/cgf
Sut ject: Staff Study Recommending Policies
for Treatment of Koreans in Japan.
From: Diplomatic Section To: Chief of Staff
Date: 16 August 48
1. Forwarded herewith for approval is a draft study prepared
by Diplomatic Section at the request of the Deputy Chief of Staff,
SCAP, recouunending policies for the treatment of Koreans in Japan.
2. The enclosed draft study makes the following general rece
mendations:
a.
Mass repatriation of Koreans from Japan to Korea should
be reopened. Korean repatriates should be allowed to
take or send to Korea up to ¥100,000 in addition to the
personal property and professional instruments permitted
by SCAPIN 927/16, 16 July 1947;
b. Koreans remaining in Japan should not at this time be
compelled to elect either Japanese or Korean nationality;
c.
Koreans remaining in Japan should continue to be treate
in the same manner as Japanese nationals;
d.
Diplomatic discussions should be held with the now
Korean Government with a view to insuring that the Lorean
Government will not press claims for special treatment
of Koreans remaining in Japan.
An inter-staff committee should be established for the
purpose of recommending to the Chief of Staff a proposed
press release in explanation of SCAP policy toward Koreans.
3. G-2 has suggested that any SCAPIN issued to the Japanes
Government contain an explicit instruction to the effect that Korens
who continue to reside in Japan are to be treated in the same wy as
Japanese. Even though this is the policy which has been followed
since 1946, Diplomatic Section considers it inadvisable and unneses-
sary, for political reasons, to issue such an instruction at this time;
such an instruction would not, in any event, change existing poliey.
4. The Civil Property Custodian has suggested that the tmp
rary safekeeping in Japan of the property of Korean repatriates be
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 580, September 3, 1948.
-2-
made the responsibility of each individual Korean repatriate.
Diplomatic Soction recommends that mass repatriation be reopened;
therefore the ∞ st of storage of Korean repatriates' property as
well as of their transportation to ports of embarkation should be
made an obligation of the Japanese Government.
5. Conmanding General, United States Army Forces in Korea,
has requested in ZiIGFAr 240, 13 August 48, that USAFIK be "repr
sented in the final phase of any studies" made by SCAP in regard to
the status of koreans in Japan.
6. It is sugested that, if the enclosed staff study is ap
proved, the followiny steps be taken:
a.
G3 shcu be requested to draft a Repatriation Ar
thru Arin-p
ment and to negotiate ith the authorities in Korea for
its acceptance;
b.
Major Goff, U.S. Army Military Government in Korea
Liaison Officer, should be requested to discuss noce
sary procedures with the authorities in Korea in regard
to currency transfers fron Japan to Korea and to inform
SCAP of the results of these discussions;
c.
G-3 should thereupon issue a SCAPIN to the Japanes
Government incorporating, the decisions reached in regard
to repatriation of Koreans;
d. DS should be requested to communicate with the Depart-
ment of State and with United States diplomatic ropre-
sentatives in Korea with a view to securing the dosired
assistance of the Korean Government;
The staff sections represented on the inter-staff com-
mittee charged with drafting a press statement concern-
ing Koreans in Japan should be requested to designate
representatives to attend a meeting on a specified date.
7. Concurrences: G-1
Civil Property Custodian
G2
Civil Transportation Section
G-3
Economic and Scientific Section
G-4
Judge Advocate General
Legal Section
8. Request approval by Chief of Staff of enclosed draft staff
study and return of this file to Diplomatic Section for further
implementation.
Incl:
Draft staff study.
-W.J.S.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatd No. 50
dated September 3, 1948 frem the Ogs
of the United States Political Adviesr
at Tokyo, on the subjest: "Statws of
Koreans in Japan."
CONTIDENTIAL
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER ROR THE ALLIED POWERS
CHECK SHEET
Subject: Status of Koreans in Japan.
From: Chief of Staff
To: Diplomatic Section
Date: 29 August 48
1. Since no representation has yet been made, it is considered
inexpedient to initiate action at this time on the recommendations
submitted, except with respect to the relaxation of restrictiens on
the transfer of currency and property of repatriated Koreans. Sinee
it is not anticipated that relaxing these restrictions will resalt
in mass repatriation, no repatriation agreement appears necessary.
2. It is desired that the Diplomatic Section, in coordimatiem
with the Economic and Scientific Section, draft and submit the neees-
sary instructions to the Japanese Government relaxing the restrie-
tions on the transfer of currency and property as recommended in
recommendation IV. l. As a preliminary, agreement for this action
should be obtained from the proper authorities in Korea.
3. Inasmuch as the new Korean Government is at present in the
process of organization, negotiations respecting other phases of
repatriation are considered premature at this time. This study will
be held as a guide for our action when the problem of the status of
the Korean in Japan arises in more concrete form. Should the Koreem
Government request the accreditation of a representative, the request
wdll be given due consideration and the decision will be based on its
merits.
(Penned comment in Chief of Staff's handwriting:)
C-in-C conmends DS on this study. He desires it
be available when issues will be discussed later
on highest lovel.
P.JM.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
OCT281948
Xm reply refer te
A 894.4016/9-348
CONFIDENTIAL
894.4016/9-3480
Dear General Eberle:
I am enslesing as of pessible interest to yem a
a copy of a staff study prepared by the Diplematie
Section of General Eeadquarters concerning the status
and treatment of Korsans in Japan.
You will note that the views of the Chief of staff
concerning the implementation of the recemmmadatioms
formulated in this study are set forth in an attashed
cheok sheet.
Although we have not as yet had an eppertunity to
it seems to us upon first reading that these reeom-
mendations provide in goneral a sound basis upon whiek
CS/B
problem.
COR
NE Unit
Sincerely yours,
m
eE
John N. Allisen
0.1
Chief
Dist.
Division of Mortheast
Asian Affairs
Enclosure:
 From Tokyg, copy
of despatch No. 580
dated Beptember 3,
1948, with enelesures.
2
Brigadier General G. L. Eberle,
Acting Chief, Givil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army.
OCNFIDENTIAL
 O - Mr. Claxton
FEAWR
JWA
FE:NA:NWBond: Jh
10/19/48
R
3695

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
STANTARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: October 11
9.348
sUBJECT: Attached: Tokyo's 580
Here ie an outstanding, comprehensive discussion
of the Korean problem in Japan with considered recom-
mendations on Korean repatriation, the settlement of
the nationality status of Koreans in Japan and the
Returned to
accrediting of a Korean representative to SCAP. The
study was prepared by Mr. Finn of the Diplomatic Sec-
tion and is to bc used by SCAP as a guide whenever these
iseues are taken up. A copy was sent to U.S. Special
Representative, Seoul.
Mr. Finn stresses the desirability of reinitiating
9
a mass repatriation in Japan for the bulk of the 600,00
Koreane still remaining in Japan. 900,000 Koreans had
6
been repatriated by the program which was ended in
-348
December 1946, and very little repatriation has occurred
since then. Koreane in Japan are, as a group, unassimil-
able and a proven source of dangerous friction with the
Japanese. Furthormore, many Koreans are Communists,
maintaining links with Communist groups on the Asiatic
mainland. Economically, they draw heavily on the war-
strained Japanese economy, engage in black market acti-
vities, contributing little in taxes or in constructive
effort.
Finn does not recommend that SCAP forcibly repatriate
the Koreans but that he encourage their voluntary repa-
triation by removing as far as possible restrictions on
the currency and personal effects which they are allowed
to take back with thcm to Korea.
While Japan has adequate facilitles for processing
the repatriation of up to 120,000 Koreans monthly, Korea
probably could not handle such large numbers of repa-
triates. Finn therefore recommends that all procedures
and mechanics of the repatriation program should be in-
cluded in a Repatriation Agreement signed by representa-
tives of SCAP and the Korean Government. Thereafter all
0/R
types of inducements should be offered to maximize the
rete of repatriation.
However, because many Koreans will undoubtedly elect.
Rcv
to remain in Japan, the basic problem will be to determine
Ca
policies
0
CONFIDENTIAL
33

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
policies which will reduce the friction they may occasion
and to arrive at some clarification of their nationality
status. Finn recognizes that final cetermination of nation-
ality of Koreans in Japan must await the peace treaty and
that meanwhile their dual nationality status must continue
unresolved. To grant them exclusive Korcan nationality
would result in 600,000 Koreans suddenly &cquiring the
special rights accorded to foreign nationals in Japan.
This would give them supplementary food rations, for ex-
ample, which would impose an additional strain on the
Japanese economy and eharpen Japanese dislike of the
Korean minority. It would also instigate numerous Korean
claims of property damage.
Finn belleves that the best solution would be to per-
suade the Korean Government through a high-level diplomatic
approach to pass legislation specifying that only those
Koreans who transferred their residence to Korea would be
considered Korean nationals and that the matter of con-
ferring Korean nationality on Koreans who remain in Japan
would anait a Japaneee peace settlement.
Finn suggests that, Koreans who enter Japan legally
with full documentation by the new Koreen Government should
be recognized by SCAP as foreign nationals with all the
rights of foreign nationals. This would induce Koreans to
return to Korea in order to seek reentry to Japan so as to
improve their status, but at the same time it would enable
SCAP to permit the reentry of only the moet desirable
Koreans such as techniciens.
In conclusion Finn recommends that no distinction be
Crawn by SCAP between South and North Koreans because of
SCAp's desire to cncourage all Koreans to repatriate them-
sclves and because of U.s. desire that all Koreans even-
tually be united under one government. If the Koreans
should in cue course request thet a representative be
accredited to SCAP, Finn recommends that such a request
be granted.
I believe that all of Finn's recommendations are
sound. If you and Niles Bond agree, I suggest that we
tell Mr. Sebald informally thet, whoreas this Division has
not rad an opportunity to consult Ambassador Muccio on
tris problem, we feel that Mr. Finn's recommendations are
sound, and subject to Ambassador Muccio's concurrence, we
support them fully. Further NA action on this question
does not seem to be indicated at this time. You may wish
to send
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
to send a copy, if available, to General Eberle.
An appraisal sheet is attached.
FE:NA:MGreen:lt

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
WALTER H. JUDD
COMMITTRES:
STH DIST., MINNÉOTA
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
EXPENDITURES IN THE EXECUTIVE
DEPARTMENTS
FE
Congress of the United States
Douse of Kepresentatibes
D
Washington, D. C.
January 12, 1948
Mr. ". alton butterwortn, Director
Office of Far astern Affairs
Department of State
washington, D. C.
894.4016/1-1249
Attenticn: Mr. Allison
Dear ir:
In compliance with the suggestion made to my office
today by Mr. llison, I am quoting from a letter received from
a member of the Minneapolis college women's lub as follows:
"As a member of the Minneapolis Branch. of the College homen's
Club (a branch of the AaUw), I have been interested in our
Fellowship program which provides funds for graduate study
for gifted women scholars. ve have for the past four years
been bringing students here from foreign countries for re-
fresher courses, in addition to our regular fellowship awards,
nd it has been my pleasure to know one of these students
from Cnina and one from Siam. ihe student from iam, in talking
about her trip to the united otates, said that en rcute she
spent six days in Tokyo. in telling about this experience, she
mentioned being the only strange looking person among the Americans
and could walk where they did, go through the gates marked
"allied rersonnel", ride on allied Personnel buses, etc. 1 had
her repeat ali this, because I coulan't believe my ears. the
allied personnel people walk on une part of the street and the
Japanese on another, etc. 1 exciaimed tnat 1 could hardly
CSA
believe in tnis segregation, and she remarked that it was strange
14153
when the americans were trying to teach democrucy to the Japanese."
"Can you throw some light on this for me? Part f the reason
894.4016
for bringing these foreign students here is so that we can
bring about a better understaoJing between their country and
ours and this is sometaing 1 feel needs explaining."
Will you please give me a report or explanation that I may
send on to my constituent.
IAN 97 1949
Very sincerely yours,
Waete, Judd
WHJ:EGF

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.78)
ay ânar Bo. Jade
follewe:
Thare Lo no eviéenes so cesraterase
"Allied perasamel psonle walk cn one vart
the Japaese en mnother.• Cean 
Homdquarters ofrices, allied sekoals. at me
trains have eers, or mose oftem ceetms of s
However, 18 is cssentlal to ths effsmsent aperathas
the csoupetien that is have pseased spame an cert
in wartias cr wader cccupetics conditlems. ases
"Allied Poreommel" ars wsee fer sdensifying
Allied treop trains, billots, aad ths like.
I hope thie informasion will me halpaul ts you in
olarifying the sltuatlon in Japem So your soawtllmemk.
siccsrely youre.
OS/A
a waltepBusterwors
Direotor fae Far Emetera Affalre
.LC

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
USpocrD Thy
noifid Depis neus
Tokyo, February 18, 1949.
No.114
TE
i3
EO
CONEDENTIAL
E
MAR
Subct: Status of Koreans in Japan.
894.4016/
The Acting Political Adviser hes the honor to refer to the
Mission's confidential despatch no.580 of September 3, 1948
transmitting an enclosure dated August 16, 1948, entitled "Staff
Study Concerning Koreans in Japan" in which various aspects of
the problems arising from the presence in Japan of some 600,000
2
Koreens were discussed and tentative recommendations were formu-
2-18
lated looking to their solution. This staff study had the con-
currence of various staff Sections of General Headquarters and
has been held available for eventual use in arriving at a more
49
definitive settlement of the general problem.
1
There is now enclosed a further study entitled "Status of
Koreans in Japan" dated February 10, 1949, which has been pre-
pared by officers of this Miseion in an effort to present the
current st age of thinking on this subject from which it is hoped
will emerge during the next few weeks a definitive analysis em-
bracing final conclusions and specific recommendations. The
Chief of Staff of this Headquarters concurs in the belief that
the importance and multiplicity of problems currently arising
with respect to Koreans in Japan call for a clarification of
their status, and further studies have accordingly been initiat-
ed to this end.
It is the present opinion of this Mission that all parties
and legitimate interests concerned with the problem of Koreans
in Japan will be best served by reducing the Korean minority in
this country to the lowest possible proportions. On the premise
that Korean nationality was extinguished by Japanese abaorption
of Korea in 19l0, and that Koreans in Japan can avail themselves
of the benefits of nationality newly opened up to them by the
asech quun
liberation of their country only by performing a positive act to
prenin.
that end, it is believed that registration as Korean nationals
should be limited to those Koreans in Japan who demonstrate their
immediate intention of returning to Korea or who remain in Japan
for official Korean purposes or certain limited other purposes
acknowledged to be Korean. While making every effort to encourage
those who wish to establish their Korean nationality to return to
Korea at the earliest possible time, legal and practical considera-
tions point to the desirability of withholding recognition of Korean
nationality
R
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 1ll,
February 18, 1949.
- 2 -
nationality to those who remain in this country and of continuing
to accord them treatment as Japanese nationals pending an ultimate
solution of the problem between Japan and Korea as autonomous states.
The results of the Mission's further studies of this problem
will be reported to the Department as soon as they have been completed,
whereupon it is hoped that they can be coordinated with the position
and views of the Korean Government.
A memorandun of a conversation held by an officer of this Mission
with an official of the Japanese Foreign Office on February 3, 1949,
regarding a study on the problem of Koreans in Japan currently being
2
prepared by the Japanese Government forms the second enclosure to this
despatch. It is expected that it will be several months before this
study, which apuarently will be mainly concerned with devising means
of ridding Japan of its Kor an minority, will be completed.
The Mission would appreciate receiving any views or suggestions
with respect to the problem of Koreans in Japan which the Department
may be able to provide at this time.
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum dated February 10,
1949 entitled "Status of.
Koreans in Japan".
2.
Memorandun of Conversation
dated Februery 3, 1949 on the
subject "Koreans in Japan".
301
CKHuston:gd
Original and hectograph to the Department.
Copy to Seoul, Korea
CONFIDENTIAL
eny
RRm

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Deapatch No. 1ll
dated February 18, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan.
Tokyo, on the subject "Status of Koreans
CONFIDENTIAL
in Japan".
MEMORANDUM
Status of Koreans in Japan
In reference to the Mission's despatch no. 580 of September 3,
1948 with regard to the status of Koreans in Japan, and with regard
to further developments in the matter, it may be noted that it con-
tinues to be the policy of the Mission to advocate working decisions
on the part of the Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers, on a
temporary basis, in accord with the principle that ultimate settle-
ment of problems arising from the presence in Japan of Koreans should
be relegated to a time when Japan as a sovereign stete is able to no-
gotiate with Korea; and to advocate that in the interim this Head-
quarters, in such decisions on the matter as require earlier deter-
mination, give full weight to the views of the Japanese Government,
which in the course of time will be in the position of bearing the
consequences of current determinations. The magnitude of the prob-
lem renders any other attitude of high potential danger to those
permanent interests of Japan of which the Supreme Commander is pres-
ently the custodian. In ordinary times the residents of Japan hold-
ing foreign nationality have been a relatively small mumber, in the
order of ten thousand occidentals and thirty thousand orientsls.
Recognition by Japan of foreign naticnality of the 600,000 Korean
residents of this country would create a problem on a new scale.
While the Mission would always prefer that there be adequate time
to consult the Department, it may be necessary in the present stage
for Heedquarters to arrive at working decisions concerning Koreans
in Japan without such opportunity. The possibility that immediate
decision may be necessery only adds to the desirability of sub-
mitting this study for the Department's information with regard to
current considerations in the matter.
Relaxation of Previous Restrictions on Koreans Returning to Korea
As recommended in the first enclosure to despatch no. 580,
this Headquarters has approved provisions relaxing restrictions on
the amount of property Koreans returning from Japan to Korea may
take with them. These provisions have already been issued to the
Japanese Government in the form of a directive (see this Mission's
despatch no. 64, January 31. 1949) and after implementing regula-
tions have been issued the new procedure will be fully operative.
Preparations have been made to publicize this procedure in both
Japan and Korea in order to encourage Koreans in Japan to return
to Korea and to indicate the importance attached to such repatria-
tion as a means of alleviating problems raised by Koreans in Japan.
Although there is no basis for estimating the number of Koreans who
will return to Korea as a result of the revised provisions, and al-
though application of the new regulations is not limited in time.
past experience indicates that the number will be small. Of the
600, O00 Koreans in Japan, there is no reason to suppose that more
than 50,000 will thus elect repatriation.
Possible
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 111, February 18, 1949.
- 2 -
Possible Registration of Koreans
The problem of defining policy toward those Koreans who remain
in Japan has been precipitated by establishment of a Korean Liaison
Mission in Japan, raising first of all the question of determination
of nationality. It is the view of this Mission (which we hope this
Headquarters will sustain) that the Korean Liaison Mission should
register as Koreen nationals only those Koreans in Japan who demon-
strate their immediate intention of returning to Korea or who re
main in Japan for official Korean purposes or certain limited other
purposes acknowledged to be Korean.
If this view is adopted, the policy hitherto followed by this
Headquarters--that Koreans voluntarily continuing to reside in Japan
should be accorded the treatment of Japanese nationals--would not be
changed, except in respect to those Koreans engaged in official ac-
tivity in Japan or those who have demonstrated their intention to
return to Korea. This would mean in effect that final determination
of the nationality status of those Koreans who remain in Japan will
be suspended. Official papers with regard to them might uniformly
use an expression such as Nationality status undetermined (Korean
origin). During this period of suspension, Koreans in Japan can
elect Korean nationality by returning to Korea at any time (thereby
abandoning any right to proceed again to Japan, except as may be
allowed by SCAP regulations), or by engaging in official Korean ac-
tivity in Japan; but their treatment as Japanese nationals will not
be affected while they remain in Japan.
Desirability of Encouraging Koreans to Return to Korea
This position is based on what is believed to be the most im-
portant consideration in regard to Koreans in Japan, namely, that
every effort should be made to encourage those who wish to assert
their Korean nationality to return to Korea at the earliest time.
If large numbers ultimately return to Korea, this will redound to
the advantage both of Japan by reducing the size of a difficult
minority group and of Koree by adding the support of those whose
primary allegiance and national sympathy are demonstrably Korean.
To recognize Korean nationality in all persons of Korean origin
and at the same time to permit them to remain in Japan indefinitely
would, it is thought, remove their incentive to return to the coun-
try of their primary allegiance, deprive Korea of the large numbers
of persons having the industrial and commercial skill it so eagerly
desires, and aggravate what is the worst source of friction between
Korea and Japan, i.e., the tendency of Koreans in Japan to assert
the privileges of non-Japanese status.
Other Aspects of Problem
Legally it is believed that the withholding of recognition
of Korean nationelity is the wisest course to follow. It is doubt-
ful that creation of a duly recognized government in Korea has the
effect of automatically conferring Korean nationality on persons
outside of Korea; generally, transfer of territory from one state
to another (in this case from Japan to Korea) causes transfer of
nationality of individuals only when they have their residence in
the territory at the time of the transfer. The fact that Koreans
in Japan
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 111, February 18, 1949.
- 3 -
in Japan did not return to their country after its liberation, and
show no intention to return after the establishment of a duly rec-
ognized government there, would seem to indicate that they have
surrendered their residence in Korea. Allied policy (FEC O34/1,
June 5, 1946) provides that Koreans in Japan are to be treated as
"liberated people", and in accordance therewith their repatriation
to Korea was encouraged, but that statement of policy is not under-
stood to contitute a decision in respect to their nationality. As-
suming, however, that establishment of a duly recognized government
in Korea could operate to create nationelity in behalf of persons
outside Korea, it is nevertheless a generally recognized rule that,
when a person with dual nationality is residing in either of the
countries of which he is a national, that country has a right to
assert its claim to him without any inteference by the other, un-
less perhaps such person, having reached the age of majority, has
already elected the nationality of the other country and is only
temporarily in the country asserting the claim. Great Britain and
the United States, among other countries, follow this practice, and
it is believed desirable that the Korean Government recognize its
advantageousness, as well in the long-term interest of Korea itself
as for other reasons.
The presently established policy has the further advantage of
not committing Japan to a definite determination in which it did not
participate and which might prove highly impractical in the future.
As an ultimate solution of the problem it is envisaged that Japan
and Korea will be able as autonomous states to reach a definite
agreement in regard to the legel status of these persons, possibly
by resort to a treaty provision, such as is not uncommon in the case
of territorial changes, under which persons affected by the territor-
ial change are given the option of electing nationality but must also
make their country of residence conform with this election. If Japan
and Korea were to make such an agreement, Koreans in Japan who elect
Korean nationality would thereby be required to return to Korea with-
in a fixed time to take up residence; Koreans not wishing to return
to Korea might thereby elect Japanese nationality. A decision taken
now by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to permit the
Korean Liaison Mission to register Koreans in Japan as Korean nation-
als would, unless the registration standards imposed by the Korean
Government were extremely strict, enable many thousands of Koreans
in Japan to assert Korean nationality even though evincing no in-
tention of ever returning to Korea. This decision would, it is
thought, have the result, emong other undesirable results, of creat-
ing serious problems of dual nationality.
Question of Food Rations
An additional consideration of present significance involves
supplementary food rations now allowed to all (non-Occupation) for-
eign residents of Japan. Were Koreans permitted to register as
Korean nationals, there appears to be no non-discriminatory basis
upon which this extra ration could be withheld from them. This
extra ration is already an onerous burden, and the feasibility of
withdrawing it from all foreign nationals in Japan is now being
examined by this Headquarters. In the absence of a decision to
withdraw it, it is clear that its extension to 600,000 Koreans.
in addition to the 8,000 occidentals and 36,000 Chinese and Formosans
who now
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 111, February 18, 1949.
- 4 -
who now receive it (despatch no. 63 of January 29, 1949), would be
an extremely heavy and disproportionate load.
Position of Korean Government
It is realized that standards for registration of persons in
Japan presumably eligible for Korean nationality are to be deter-
mined by the Republic of Korea. Legally, it may be within the
power of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to prevent
registration of these persons if he determines that the standards
for such registration are violative of international law or unduly
prejudice the position of Japan. The Supreme Commander should seek
by appropriate diplomatic consult tion to ensure that the Korean
Government imposes standards mutually acceptable to both parties.
It would appear imperative that the Korean Government be apprised
of those considerations which this Headquarters believes to be con-
trolling and that the Korean Government be urged to formulate its
position in accord with these considerations.
Political Considerations
The policy presently followed by this Headquarters has not
been aimed toward resolving political conflicts among Korean ele
ments in Japan. It is of course desirable that the strength of
leftist Koreans be eliminated or reduced to a minimum; but it is
submitted that this is part of a more general political problem
in Japan and elsewhere. There would appear to be little that po-
litically moderate Koreens in Japan could do by virtue of recogni-
tion of their Korean nationality that could not be accomplished by
them at present, although Koreans in Japan have constently and vo-
ciferously assumed that recognition of foreign national status for
them would mean greatly enlarged privileges and have been inclined
to resort to violence to support their demand for privilege. Korean
groups in Japan have been attempting since the surrender of Japan to
assert their independence of Japanese legal process and in practice
they have achieved considerable success in these efforts, notably
in the fields of taxation and education. At the same time they have
constantly endeavored to obtain recognition as foreign nationals,
obviously in the hope of obtaining even greater privileges. Recog-
nition of foreign national status without United Nations national
status would mean little in legal terms, although Korean assumptions
in this regard have an undeniable psychological validity in the face
of present weak law enforcement in Japan and of the ineffectual posi-
tion of the country's disarmed police.
Arguments in Favor of General Registration of Korean Nationals
Although the observations contained in the foregoing paragraphs
embody the Mission's conviction with regard to the desirability of
deferring until later Japan-Korea determination of their mutual na-
tionality problems, it is recognized that a plea for the registra-
tion as Korean nationals of Koreans residing in Japan may be put
forward in insistent form. The following paragraphs accordingly
present the arguments favoring a general registration of Korean
nationals in Japan.
The Republic
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 111, February 18, 1949.
- 5 -
The Republic of Korea may well press for recognition and
special treatment of those Koreans in Japan who are considered
to be Koreans by birth, or who while possessing in many instances
dual nationality may wish to elect Korean nationality. The Korean
Government might insist that those Koreans in Japan who can mest
its nationality requirements, and who wish to assume such status,
be permitted to register as Korean nationals (within a specified
time period) with the Korean Liaison Mission in Jpan. Presumably.
an oath of allegiance to the Republic of Korea would be included
among such requirements, and probably provision would be made for
final approval of documentation by the Korean Ministry of Foreign
Affairs at Seoul.
In this connection, it is to be hoped that the Korean Govern-
ment and SCAP would find it mutually advantageous to keep the regis-
tration of Koreans ir Japan to a minimum through the establishment
of strict, as opposed to lax, registration criteria. The determina-
tion of appropriate factors of limitation of a qualitative nature
to be applied in this regard might best be worked out through dip-
lomatic discussion with the Korean Government at Seoul. Presumably
Koreans with communist sympathies or affiliations would be unwilling
to take an oath of allegiance to the Republic of Korea; an appreciable
number would probably prefer to retain, or to take steps to acquire,
Japanese citizenship; and a relaxation of restrictions on transfer of
currency and property of repatriated Koreans might somewhat reduce
the total. The time element involved in the registration process by
the Korean Mission could alone be expected further to reduce in some
degree the impact of such action upon Japan's political, economic,
and social structure.
As properly registered Korean nationals, it would probably be
decided by SCAP that such persons would be treated as foreign na-
tionals in all respects, including the receipt of the foreign na-
tional supplementary ration for such time as it may remain in effect.
In the matter of legal rights, until such time as Korea is admitted
to the United Nations, Korean nationals, under existent Occupation
directives, would continue to be subject to Japanese criminal juris-
diction except for offenses against the Occupation.
There are indications that the Korean Government may in the near
future find it politically inadvisable to refuse to accord recogni-
tion to Koreans in Japan or to prescribe the establishment of a dom-
icile in South Korea as a prerequisite to the issue of the documente-
tion of Korean nationality.
In his New Year's message to the editor of the New World News
in Osaka, President RHEE referred to "our six hundred thousand resi-
dents in Japan", and stated that the head of the Korean Liaison Mis-
sion in Japan "will do all he can in the interest of the Republic
and its citizens in Japan". Additionally, the head of the Mission
requested the views of his Government regarding the position alleged-
ly taken by the South Korean Interim Government in August, 1948 to
the effect that all Koreans residing in Japan should be given the
opportunity of choosing between Japanese and Korean nationality and
that those who choose Korean nationality be considered as foreign
nationals and treated equally with other foreign nationals in Japan
not connected with the Occupation; that as foreign nationals in
Japan
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 111, February 18, 1949.
- 6 -
Japan Koreans should be obliged to obey all laws of the Japanese
Government; and that the Government of Korea recognizes the right
of the Japanese Government to deport Korean illegal entrants and
criminal elements but denies that the Japanese Government has the
right to deport Koreans because they are unemployed.
If Koreans resident in Japan should be given the opportunity
to register and be recognized as netionals of the Republic of Korea,
it might be anticipated that many Koreans considered as following
and paying lip-service to Korean leftist leadership in Japan will
register and thereby affiliate themselves with the present Korean
Government. Politically, the proffer of recognition as Korean na-
tionals to those who qualify and register would afford Korean moder-
ates in Japan their first opportunity effectively to counteract pres-
ently growing leftist leadership, and would undoubtedly result in
strengthening the prestige of the Republic of Korea among its support-
ers in Japan. Furthermore, from a security standpoint, a purpose
would be served in having Korean residents subject to precise identi-
fication and affiliation. The right to deport illegal Korean entrants
and criminal elements would, of course, in any event remain unchanged.
Conclusions
In broad terms, the effect of a system of general registration
of Koreans in Japan as Korean nationals should be expected to harden
the separation of the Kore n community from Japanese without in any
way serving to diminish the number of Koreans in Japan who consti-
tute the problem under discussion. Such registration would have the
additional disadvantage of losing the potential gain inherent in of-
fering the individual Korean the alternative choice of repatriation
on the one hand or election of Japanese nationality and Japanese res-
idence on the other (which is indubitably the outline of the only
possible permanent solution to any minority population problem in the
large proportions of present Korean residence in Japan). It is clear
that, should the Korean Government successfully insist on such regis-
tration, the optimum solution of Japan's complex Korean problem would
suffer a serious setback. This Mission is in consequence seeking to
obtain acceptance of the principle that ultimate settlement of prob-
lems arising from the presence in Japen of Koreans should be deferred
until direct negotiation between the Korean and Japanese Governments
is possible, necessary interim working decisions on a temporary basis
being confined to a scope which would not prejudice ultimate settle
ment by negotiation.
This Mission as the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters
has currently recommended to the Koreen representative that, in view
of the extensive scope of the problem involved and the probability
that it will ultimately be settled by agreement between the Govern-
ments of Korea and Japan, he take no steps to register or document
any Korean resident in Japan, particularly in the absence of any
instruction from his Government in this regerd; that hs inform those
persons who raise the question that he has referred the entire matter
to his Government for consideration and early action; and that he
make his recommendations in the matter to his Government with a view
to decisions at an intergovernmental level. We have been confiden-
tially informed that the Korean representative in a letter of February
4. 1949 to President Rhee has recommended that the President discuss
the situation with Ambassador MUCCIo and that, if agreeable to both,
the question be referred to Washington.
RBFinn/DMBane/CCoville/gmd
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Deap 
CONFIDETIAL
Political Adviser for Jepem,
"Status of Koreans in Japem"
COPY
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
Tokyo, February 3, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: Koreans in Japan
FARTICIrANTS: Hr. Eiji WAJIiA, Director of the Control Bureau of the
Foreign Office.
Mr. Richard B. Finn
1. Mr. Eiji WAJLiA called to discuss Korean problems. He stated
that the Japanese Government is preparing a study on the problm of
Koreans in Japan. Several ministries concerned, notably the Fimanse
Ministry, have not yet submitted reports to be used in this study.
Mr. Wajima observed that the Finance Ministry has been having pertésular
diffioulties with the Koreans.
2. The principal consideration motivating the Japanese at presest
in regard to horeans in Japan is to et them out of Japan. Mr. Wajim
said that there is considerable feeling that since the Japanese were
forcibly renoved from places on the continent of Asia, the korems in
Japan should likewise forcibly be renoved from Japan to Korea. He
acknowledged, of course, that forcible removal of these Koreans was, as
a practical matter, impossible now or in the future.
3. In this connection he submitted an informal memorandma ving
his own personal opinion, stating that questions of natlonality of
Koreans in Japan couId be deferred until a peace settlement, but that
weasures had to be taken for the interin treatment of Koreans in Japm.
The pertinent portion of the nemorandum stated as follows:
"The Japanese Government thinks it proper
(a) to treat Aoreans now residing in Japan as non Japanese
in all future legislation, and
(b) to amend the laws and regulations now in foree in uch
way as to give them the status of non-Japanese in every
aspect of the administrative field."
4. Mr. Wajima appeared to feel that by treating Koreans as mom
Japanese the possibility of ultimately ridding Japan of all Kereams
was greater. I said that in my opinion Japanese law enforoement would
be more diffioult if Koreans were to be treated as non Japanese ad
thus led to believe they had foreign national status. Mr. Wajime agreed
but indicated that in the long run his position might be more effeetive
CONFIDENTIAL
in setting

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. lll,
February 18, 1949.
-2
in setting Koreans apart froa Japanese and contributing to their
removal fro: Japan.
5. we agreed that as far as current problems of law enforcement
— police action, tax collection, etc. — are concerned, there is
7
no great difference between treating them as Japanese or as foreign
naticuals, particularl, since they will not acquire UN national status.
The principal problem is to inerease the effectiveness of the police
and the tax collectors.
6. osl. Koreans in Japan appear to be dual nationals. The
Japenese Governnent never permitt ed .oreans to transfer their koseki
froa l.orea to Japan hut nevertheless during the period of Japanese
annexation of korea they acquired a subordin te Japanese nationality
whether they lived in Korea or Jap n. A fes Koreans in Japan acquired
fill Jap ne e natio: lity by process of adoption into Japanese families,
but even these could readily acquire orean nationality b. canceling
their untry in a Japanese koseki. Hr. ajima said that nearly all
hore ns in Jupan are extretely eager to acquire Japanese nationality
and that the present o fer for adoption by Japanese is ¥2,000,000.
I pointed out that if Koreans were registered by the Korean
ission as Korean nationels, their dual national si atus would be clearly
recognized and that thi in effect night constitute an election of
nationality by these loreans, even though r. ajima's memorandum recom-
mended thai uch an election be deferred until a peace settlement; I
also said that the United States had always found it extremely desirable
to reduce the incidence of ual nationalityd that it would probably
be to he utual advantage of  nd oren that the problems of dual
nation: lity involving Korens in Ja an e kept to a minimum.
7. horeans in Japan cainot vote beenuse they are registered in
Rorea. Bec use Japan's oting regulations require that persons eligible
to vote nust be registcred in Japem, ost of he oreans in Japan are
disenfranchised. I ag ed ith r. wajime that under present conditions
it was probably not lesirable thet or an. in Japan be allowed to vote,
but at the same tine I sai: th t thi restriction a peared to set up a
subordinate type of Japanese citizenship hic' seemed to me to violate
the provision, of the n Constitution lling for complete equality of
all Japenese nalio als.
3. Mr. Wajina gave his view that the Japanese at present are not
confident or their bility to handle a ser ous minority problem of this
n ture an? that if c nditions should improve to the point where there
would be a peace treaty and  3 ablishment of Japan as an independent
nation, the Japanese would be ore villing to attempt to absorb at
least some of the noreans into +he J p nese community as Japanese. At
the present time, ho ever, the Kore:ns constitute a rather serious
menace to he stability and orderly processes of the Japanese Government.
In this
CONFIDENT LAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
1808
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 1ll,
February 1ε, 1949.
-3-
In this connection, r. ajima said that the Japanese have
always considered the nor ns to he an inferior race. He said that
a very elaborate study o the racial characteristics of Koreans had
been prepared during the ar and that it had concluded that the mental
and social capaciti s of the coreans vere of a very primitive nature.
He said that this feeling oen the part o" the Japanese that Koreans
are inferior to a  at tent notivats Japanese uncertainty and
hostility in regard ts the r.oreans.
9. As for policies to be folloved at present toward Koreans,
r. ajima d I ended in eneral agreement: The qu stion of their
nationality could be postpon i; the Japanese Government should be
free to pply all provisions of Japanese law to Roreans and should be
able freely to  eport Rorean lawbreakers and other undesirables. I
think Mr. ajima ultimately agreed with de thal during this interim
period it would be preferable that these noreans not be registered as
Rorean national: le st law enforcement problems become aggravated.
10. Mr. ajima eapha sized hat he was peaking in a purely personal
capacity and that the Forei n Of ice study would constit ute an official
expre sion of Japanese views on thi ; problem. I got the impression
that thi. stuiy vill not be ready for at least several months.
R. B. Finn
301
RBFinn:hh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
Despateh No. 216
American Missios 
CONFIDENTIAL
OFFICIAL RECORD COPY
Seoul, April 13. 199
Return to DC/R Files
Action
when ACTION is com-
pleted.
Subject: Stetus of Koreens in. Jepen
The Fonorable
Nace of officor
The Secretary of State,
File
Wechin ton.
/R
Sir:
With reference to Desotches No. c, Sentember 7, 1g48, and
111, Februem 12. 1s4, from t.e United States Political Advisor
in Tokyo, to the Desertment, "resentin views on the status of the
Koreens in Jeprn, I ve the honor to offer the comments of this
Mission thereon.
The opinion of Loth the Supreme Com ander Allied Powers and the
United States Political Advisor in Ja an can eppropriately be meed
un es follows: Korecne in Jan, in numbers exceeding six hundred
thousand, resent  seri : rorlem to American Occupation authori-
sclk
ties. Apert from the always existine dislike wich the two people.
OLI
by nd lerge, ave lad for each other, the post-war separation of
Koree from Japan .s iven t.e Korean minority there exaggerated
Ds
i ess of its own importance end of the rights which proporly belong
to it. Koreans in Japen ave tended, in a mumler of fields, to alafm
17P
special privileges to which ordinary Japanese are not entitled. In
OFD
addition, since the protlem of stabilizing the economy of Japan is
a difficult one and already involves the ex enditure of large mme af
una
money by the United States Government each year, the presence f six
hundred thousand additional persons serves merely to complicate affairs.
As a concluding point, officials in Japan apparently recognise that
the great mejority of Koreans in that country are affiliated with
Communist organizations. As such, they present an extra burden upon
both Japanese and Americen law enforcement agencies.
As a reeult of these considerations, SCAP has taken the stand
that the best solution to the Korean minority problem is to ligaidate
it as fer as possible. This lhe: taken two distinct aspects. On the
one hend, Anerican authorities heve, in various ways, encouraged as
many Koreans as possible to repatriate themselves to their homeland.
On the other hand, Scap has dealt with Koreans who would not return
to Koree in virtually ell respects as if they were indistinguishable
from other Jepenese. This parallel action, however, bas not settled
the problem. Granted that there are valid reasons for encouraging
Koreans to : eave Japan at the present time, it is still felt that
/80
2
27 Pn
CONFIDENTIAL
REEIVE
RECROS

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
OOMPIDERIAL
American Mission in Korea
Seoul, Despatoh No. 216
-2-
scAp has underestimated the factors hindering sach repatrietses.
The Mission feels that it might be appropriate to view 
of the question from the standpoint of the Korean side. It is
virtually forced) to go to Japan to provide labor for the Japeme
machine in the years after 1931. As is admitted in maloeure Me. 2
above referenced Tokyo Despatch No. 1ll, they were siven the statee 
second class citizens and generally kept in an inferier pesitiem 
Japanese. When the wer ended, it can be assumed that these Koreams hs
two motivations. One was to retaliate against the Japanese who had
treated them badly, by obtaili  a privileged position in the country.
The other wms to return to their homeland. In this, however, they wese
discouraged by the economic depression in Korea, and by the repatriation
reguletions of SCAP which limited the emount of property and curremey
which they might carry back with them to Koree.
In ap ronchin the solution to this difficulty, it should first be
recognized that there is a possibility that many additional Koreans will
repatriate therselves if they crn bring back with them all of their
valuables from Jayan, and if economic conditions in South Korea improve.
While the latter is  feirly lone renge proposition and may involve alow
repatriation over a lons eriod of time, the former is one which can be
dealt with immedirtely. The latest SCap regulations apparently pemit
Koreans to tring witi them to Korea virtually all of their persomal ef-
fects and tools of trade. In addition, Koreans are permitted to deposit
one hundred thousend Japanese YEN in Japen in return for one hundred
thousand Korean wUN to be given to them by the Government of Korem when
they arrive in their ome country.
It is evident, wowever, tiat tais is still a negligible figure.
Many Koreens must liquidate tsinestes in Japan, since these cannot be
carried vack with tnem and for wuich they can legaliy be paid only in
Japanese YN. Such persons are liatle to ave sums far in excess of
one iundred thousand YEl. It must be remembered that even at the Mili-
tary Exchange Rate of 270 Japanese YEN for one doller, ore hundred thou-
sand YEN 1s still only $370.37. •At the Militery Exchange Bate of 450
Korean wUN to the dollar, the one hundred thousand Korean wUN which
repetriates receive upon landing in Korea is only $222.22. Even these
dollar sums ere under-valued due to the artificially low exchange rates
involved. Accordirgly, it would appear that a real inducement to r
patriation will not exist until Koreans are allowed to transfer un-
limited amounts of currency assets from Japan to Korea. Furthermore,
in view of the difference in value between the Japanese  and the
Korean wUN, arrengements should in justice be made to provide that
for eech Japenese YEn which a Korean repatriate deposits in a blocked
account in Japan, he should be given Korean wUN to the dollar equivalent
by the Korean Government upon his return. Although from the saap point
of view it is undoubtedly true that these arrargements would give to
the Korean Government large amounts of Japanece currenoy in blooked
accounts in Japan, which the Korean Government can then use for the
expenses of its diplomatic mission in Japan or for imports from Japan,
and for which the Korean Government would, if these accounts were not
available, lave to pay the Japanese economy in hard currency or in
material exports, the change in regulation seems justified when is is
recalled how the Koreans initially happened to be in Japan, how maok
equity is on their side of the case, and how the ultimate purpose is
to encourege the maximum possible voluntary repatriation.
/enis
CONFIDESTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
OONFILOENTIAL
American Mission in Koree
Seoul, Despatch No. 216
-3-
Even if all of the foregoing is accepted and affestumted
must still be recognized that large numbers of Koreams wi 
in Japan. Accordingly, the question will erise concerming whee
that the Republic of Korea is& sovereign nation which is mti
to the seme treatment for ite netionals in Japan as any other c
Furthermore, el though no peace treaty as yet been signed with 
and Ceiro declartione, end t rougi tie recosnition which bas bem
accorded tt Re iul ic of Koree by the United States. the Unitell mma
the United Kirguen, France, China and the Philippines, Koree hee beem
effectuslly c erated from Japan. This cen not, in turn. fail to
Lave some effect u.o. the le al status of Koreans resident in Jepan
who ere theoreticlly, at leest, indistinguishable in status from
their countr en in Koree. This mi jt not be the case if the Japanese
Imperinl Govern ent ad in tinesast treeted them without the ligh
est discriminetion as it trested all ordinary Japanese subjects. 
ies been noteu, however, the line of delineation even prior to the end
of the wai wat wever wiped ut. Koreuns in Japan therefore would 
enr to ve a vlid clain to Lein recognized as Koreans and a di
tinct iron Jpenese. If, in this situation, the Jepanese Govermment
wishes to oifer fili J: panese tility to such Koreans, and if
tome Koreans vi. to accept it, t.ere can, of course, be no quarrel
witi. ud: course of cctin. It nnot, nowever. reciude the 
tlic of Koren from icentiiyin remainin Koreans as its citizens
and from cttem tin to ciford thn rotection.
Tis uppears to be th. we: in whic the situe tion is doveloping.
A ntionelity lew as recently been encted  tne Koreen Government
which autometicall affirms tixt ali Koreens in Jspan, except perhaps
those few who may have abandoned tir registretion in family regl
ters in Koren, ere koreen citizens. T.e Koreen Mission in Japan will
probetly wish shortly to begin the registretion of those nationals.
It is believed tist SCAF woulc encounter strenuous objection by the
Korean Government siould it ettempt to limit such registration to
Koreens wio declere their intention to returr. t: Korea within the
imaediste future. The Korean minority chouild, in this respect, 
ceive the same trertment ss Formosen-Chinese, Swiss, or other forei
ers in Japen. The fect tiat Koreans are y far the largest numerieal
minority in Jepen, slthougt & pmctical considemtion, can not properly
effect their legal status. In view of conditions in Korea and of the
background exy leinin the presence of Koreans in Japan, there is every
reason to ive eym ethetic consideration to the Koreen viewpoint and
no reason st ell to i lp the Japanese iiquidate, at no inconvenience
to themseives, a minority pretlem which they created for themselves
without regerd to the plignt of the victims.
It is believed that if official action in regard to registration
can be delayed until after ep ropriate discussions between Korean
and American authorities, there can be developed an approach to the
protlem metisfactory to both parties. By this, it is meant that
probably some Koreans in Jepan who form the hard core of Koreen Com-
munist strength in that country, will be unwilling to register their
citizenship with agencies of the Government of the Republic of Earee.
which they do not recognize as legitimate. If the announoememt of
registration, however, is preceded by declarations both by the Mamem
President and by SCap authorities that non-registering Koreans will
henceforth be considered Japanese in all respects and under no ei
cumstances eligible for later repatriation to Herea, it is prokabls
/th
COSVIPRIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDUBNTIAL
American Mission in Korea,
Seoul, Despatch No. 216
-4-
Aperll
that many luke-warm Communists among Koreans will be weamed 
from their leftist organizations. This seems probable sinee 
believed that the great majority of Korean leftists in Japas hee
admered to Communist-front organizations not because of intriasle
belief in Communist principles but because of some impatienee wie
their economic position in Japan, and even ore, because this bas
seemed a method of exprossing opposition to the cordially dialiked
Japenese authorities. If it could also be made known to the Horeems
who present tremselves for registration that they will heneeferth o
recognized in all respects as neutral, non-enemy nationals (like the
Swiss) and if the rightist Korean Residents Union were encourmaged to
take vigorous action among Koreans, it is probable that the member
ship and etrength of the Comnunist-ce trolied League of Koreans 
siding in Jeprn mey le suarply diminished.
One of the chief problems neretofore in this connection has beem
the intolereble burden  te Japenese economy (and ultimately on
the United States) wici the increased supylementary food rations
would cause if most Koreans in Japan were to be piaced in the me
cte, ory  ticr neutml, apn-aneny nationals who now are ontitled
to evtre retions. Tuis difficulty, however, should not prevent
their beiny accorded tis legal stetus. Siice thc other neutral,
ron-enemy nntional minorities in Jepen are reletively small in mmber.
the pmctical solution would eppeer to involve the eliminetion of all
cu plementory food mtions to the entire group. A distinction can be
Arv between such neutrel, non-enemy cationale who have been in Japan
since before the en? oi t w r, an those wno nave legaly subsequontly
returned for purposes ep.roved by SCAf to conduct official or comer
cial business in Jepen. The latter category, whose presence in Japan
is presumetly of benefit to the Occupation end which is mall in mum-
bers, may still ve : utiorized the additional food ration.
It is accorin ly recom ended t at the following steps be taken:
1. The Depertments of State and Amy come to a final docision
concerning Anerican policy toward t.e Korean minority problem in
Japan.
2. On tae basis of tre policy tus adopted, discussions be
initiated by the American Mission in Korea witi. the Korean Ministry
of Foreig flairs wit. a view to putaining the concurrence of the
Korean Government to tuis policy and with & view chereafter to joint
action Uy SCAF and Korea. cutuoritits in Jepan in implementation of
this policy.
3. The policy should include the followine points:
a. SCAP should further liberalize dhrrent restrictions on
tne amount of currency and on the emount of personal property which
Koreans in Japan may take with them back to Korea.
t. The Korean Government should provide Korean wuN at a
fair rate for each Japanese YEN which repatriates deposit in blooked
accounts in Japan before departure.
c. Scap might provide transportation at the expense of
the Japenese Government for the repatriation of all Koreans who
volunteer to return to their homeland.
/d. The Koremm
COMFIDDTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
American Mission in Korea,
Seoul, Deapatch No. 216
-5-
d. The Korean Government should announoe the s
preparations which it will make to reintegrate repatriated
into South Korean economic life.
e. Koreans refusin the opportunity to repatriate t
selves should be allowed to regieter their Korean citisemship with
the Korean Mission in Jepen, with the understanding, as annewmesl y
the Korean Government, by the Japanese, and by SCaP, that all m
registering Koreans will henceforth be considered only as Japanese
and no longer eligible for repatriation to Korea.
f. Since Koreens thus registered should receive the e
treatment as all other neutml, non-enemy nationals, supplmental
food retions to tie entire group of neutral, non-enemy natiomals
shol te withdrewn except for such of them as heve teen admitted
or re-admitted to Japen in the post-war period to further the pur
poses of the Occupetion.
 The Governaent of the Repuvlic of Korea should make
lons to utilize a portion of the Japenese YEn which will accrue
to it in te llocked rey: triation accounts for the purpose of fin-
ncir and strengt.eninn tihe Korean Fesidents Union so as to omble
tmat organization to equal enl overtake tic rival Communist League
of Koreens Residin in Jepan in the wetter of obtaining the member
shi n sup ort of tie majority of Koreans in Japan.
h. In cfiectuatiit ".", SCat sould, within reasonablo
limits, ake aveilavle to the Korean Residents Union facilities
(suci. as trucks end asoline for wich the Union will pey but which
would otierwist not te le lly availtle to it) which will strengthen
the etersip rive eni reenizetion of the Union.
i. Also in efiectu tie "." tc Korean Government should
be encoura eu to lispetc, end sūaf auti.orize to admit, able polit-
ical organizers to Jepen who will nave complete suthority to ronovate
the structure and activities of tue Kurean Residents Union; if this
is not acceptable to the present leadership of the Union, in Japan.
the Koreen Government should be prepared to abandon the Korean Resi-
dente Urion and establish a trench in Japan of the National Society
for the Acceleration of Koreen Independence, as has in any event
been announced, or esteblish some entirely new organization. If
either of the latter events occur, recommendations "." and "h."
would be modified accordingly to id the new organization.
Respectfully yours,
Representative
Original and hectogreph
to Department
Copy to POLAD, Tokyo
DDMark:wd
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENT
May 27, 1949
 reply refer to
Dear Éloyoer
894.4016/5-2749
Study of May 2, 1949 entitled "Status and Treatmont of
Koreans in Japan".
We have found this study and other papers on the
same subjeet prepared in your offiee extremely helprul.
They have afforded us with a elear comprehensive analy-
sis of a problem requiring urgent attention.
The enelosure has been diseussed with Bill Sebald
who agrees with the ideas therein propounded. Please
let us have as soon as possible any views your offiee
may have on our comments.
Sincerely yours,
Signed
Max W. Bishop
Chief
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs
CS/A
Enclosure:
Memorandum
Thw
894.4016
Cloyee K. Huston, Esquire
Offieer in Charge,
Office of the United States Political Advisor,
Tokyo.
Nur.
A true copy of
FE:NA:MGreen:aw
5/20/49
CONFIDENTIAL.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTDT
and Treatment of Koreans in Japan";
1. Acserding, to penerally accopted primeiplem
international law (see espesially Artiele 45 of th
operations. The Japanese sonstitution provides that
conditions necessary for being a Japaness natiemal emall
be determined by law. It is therefore believed the
steps relative to the renunciatien of Japanese nationality
be taken in the name of the Japanese Government and in
accordance with the requirements of Japanese law. W
determine the method or soope of the relinquishment of
Japanese nationality. Furthermore, it is United States
policy that the Japenese Government be given inereasing
direction of their om affairs, both national and inter-
national.
2. On page 6 of the memorandum 1t is stated: mear
should take steps to control the relinquishment of Japem-
ese nationality and to withhold resogmition of foreiga
national status in the sase of those Koreans whose re-
linquishment of Japanese nationality is not approved".
Taken in its context, this proeedure has evidently been
suggested by USPOLaD as a deviee for permitting SCAP to
prevent a large number of Koreans from suddenly acquiring
foreign nationality status. We agree with the ebjeetive
but not with the procedure. We agree that the suddem pre-
senee of a large number of foreign nationals in occupied
Japan would present difricult ecenomie and publie safety
problems. But the proposal that this be prevented through
Scap's withhelding permission of registered Koreans to re-
linquish Japanese nationality would meem to us to tend to
create more problems than it would solve. Thms, it would
impose upon SCAP and/or the Japanese Government the direet
responsibility for withholding relinquiahment papere in
partioular

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
partieular cases. It wenld thereky give wias
Gevermment. Bather than solve the dmal mn
blen it weuld tend to ereate a third, indes
mationality sroup compesed of these whe had
sadure evolved by sdar, rather then by the Jay
ornment, for determining the nationality status of pes-
sons now holding Japanese mationality.
acquisition of Korean nationality. The Japanese mn
Korean Governments, through commissions established hy
them, should handle this matter direstly amder Seapts
guiding hand possibly as a mediator. They should agres
on the basic primiple that, automatically upen being re-
gistered as a Korean, an applicant lese his Japamese
nationality (this latter step might require revieiem ef
current Japanese law). It is possible that these sammis-
sions might then work for a solution aleng the lines of
establishing 4 or 6 offices, under the Korean Missien, in
representative geographical areas for prosessing the re-
by the Japanese and Korean Commisslons that the rate of
processing would be relatively slow and that priority
would be given to those applieants who had bona fide
reasons for retaining residenee in Jepan.
3. With reference to conclusion #4 on page 8, the
statement is made that "no change is nesessary in present
procedure for repatriation of Koreans". It is suggested
that this conelusion be phrased in more positive terme to
propose giving maximum practicable encouragement to Koremn
reeidents in Japan to return to Korea. Such eneouragement
might include relaxation of curreney restriotions, free
transportation, accommodation of Koreans on arrival in
Korea, and perhaps some vigorous welcoming gestures on the
part of the Korean Government.
Because of the direct bearing which this problem
has on U.S. international relations, FE trusts that it
will be consulted before any final program for handling
this problem is adonted.
CONFIDENTUL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.88)
JUL1-1040
Actiod
AIRGA
73
SCIEL
F.0O178
ACTION: FE
Act1on rf10e
INPO
errice ef
Dated:
Jume 25, 1949
Date of Hilin
DO/R
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SA/m
1 10
Jily P1r09y 199
Rea'd:
EUR/X
EUR
UapartH il of Stair
OLI
CIA
Sosretary of otate,
ashiluton.
iv-165, June 25, 1949.
Jepartment's attention is iuvited to pageu t nd 7 of the
Intellikence Summary no. 24.79 issued b General. hu:viquertere,
Far Last Com and, on June 23, 1949 (seo: co: no. 27 zont to
Department), which contains an interest in study of the prosent
attitude of the Chinese inority in Japan. The study indicates
that he 30,00 Jhinose residents of Japan are tending more and
more toward sympathy with the Chineso Communist eause, mainly
as a rosult of Comaunist Amy succeesec, that Chinese students
form the mucleus of the leftist element within the Shinese oom-
munity, and that personnel of the Jhinese ission in Tokyo are
now trying to ive the impression thni they have always had
leftist tendencies.
HUC TON
350
CKHustonics
CLT
PERLANENT RECORD COPY.This eapy wust bo vetureed to BC/R eontrel ies with noteln

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.94)
capya
Fee
UNTED STATES OF AMERICA
OIVISION OF
Office of the Ünited States
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFA
Political Adviser for Japan
W
1949
RECD
Tokyo, August 15, 1949.
SEP 7
No。554
ACTION
FE
CONF IDENTIAL (For Department use only)
NTT
INFO
3to
DCR
letter  i
OLI
DS
seT fum Mm. Allitoto mer
UNA
nor 4,1949
894.4016/8-1549
NA
M. Breen
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FE
Sir:
J
I have the honcr to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 111
of February 18, 1949, concerning a study to be prepared by this Mission
in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters re-
11
garding the status of Koreans in Japan. Enclosed is a copy of this
study. recommending that Headquarters recognize the right of the
Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan to register as Korean citizens
persons of Korean origin legally in Japan and that Koreans who are
so regist ered and who have relinquished Japanese nationality be
entitled to the rights of foreign nationals in Japen. Appended to
the study are the comments of concerned sections of Headquarters,
all of which concurred in the above recomnendations except for the
Government Section which stated that it would interpose no objection.
As indicated in this Mission's despatch under reference, the
Korean situation in Japan is beset by many conflicting considerations
which make att empts at solution difficult. For the reasons discussed
at length in the enclosed staff study, it was felt that registration
of at least some Koreans in Japan by the Korean Diplomatic Mission
would afford a first step toward solution of the problem and wculd
accord with the prerogatives of the Korean Government.
By communication dated June 20, 1949, the above study was sum-
marized and forwarded to the Chief of Staff for approval. Because
the Government Section had expressed reservations in regard to the
proposal for regi stration of Koreans, that section was requested to
state its reservations. By communication dated July 7, 1949, the
Government Section stated its position and by communication dated
July 15. 1949. this Mission as the Diplomatic Section replied to the
2/
points made by the Government Section. Appended as a second enclosure
to this despat ch is a series of consecutively numbered communicatfons
H
comprising the above statements of position.
11E0
Also enclosed.
CONFIDENTIAL
DECLASSIFIED
NND780069
By  NARS, Deto LASCat 29
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 554
August 15, 1949.
-2-
3/
Also enclosed is a copy of a communication dated August 3,
1949, from the Deputy Chief of Staff stating that the Commander
in Chief and the Chief of Staff had considered the staff study and
decided that the time is not propitious for registration of Koreans
in Japan and that action in connection with this problem should be
deferred for an indefinite period. The Chief of Staff's office in-
formally notified this Mission, in regard to the general problem
of Koreans in Japan, that it had also been decided to take no action
toward forcing compliance with Japanese education laws by Koreans in
Yamaguchi Prefecture (see this Mission s despatch no. 351 of May 31,
1949)。
694.4215.314
I have now discuss ed this question with the Chief of Staff,
Major General E. M. AIMOND, who informed me that General MacARTHUR
had been quite positive in his decision to take no action at the
present time looking to a clarification of the status of Koreans in
Japan along the lines of the Mission s recommendations. He feels
that registration of Koreans at this juncture would only confuse
further an already complicated situation and possibly raise more
new probl ems with respect to the Koreans here than it would solve;
also, I have reason to believe that he is not unmindful of the in-
security of the general situation in Korea itself and prefers to
await a greater degree of stabilization there before dealing with the
minority problem here.
Additionally, General Almond stated that General MacArthur feels
that this problem is essentially one for solution between the Govern-
ments of Japan and Korea, and that it would be a major mistake of policy
for the Occupation to inject itself into this problem at this time.
While he agreed that the Korean minority problem in Japan should not
become part of the negotiations at the time of a peace conference, he
nevertheless felt that the problen is capable of solution only when
representatives of Japan and Korea are able freely to negotiate with
each other. General MacArthur apparently Teels that the Mission's
proposed solution fails to reach the heart of the matter, and that to
attempt a partial solution at this time would be worse than leaving
the situation alone. I shall, however, take early opportunity to
discuss this subject with General MacArthur, going over the ground to
reiterate the Mission s reasons for seeking at least some solution of
the problen at this time, but I am doubtful if he will be convinced that
further action should be taken now.
Mean hile, it seems likely that the Korean Ambassador here will not
be content to allow the question of the s atus of Koreans in Japan to
be held in abeyance indefinitely and that either his further representa-
tions or concrete cases of individual Koreans requiring clarification
of their nationality status will again bring this question to the fore
without long delay.
In view
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 554,
August 15, 1949.
-3-
In view of Headquarters rejection of the Mission's recom-
mendations, I see no prospect of achieving any clarification of
the status of Koreans in Japan in the near future. If, however,
the Department were to provide me with an indication of its views
or with specific inst ructions directing me to press for Headquarters
action in the premises, I would be in a position to pursue the
matter further.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
iit
Enclcsures:
1。
Copy of Staff Study, "Status
of Koreans in Japan", with
TABs thereto, and copies of
exchange of check notes among
concerned Sections in Head
quarters on the Staff Study.
Cepy of check sheets among
2。
concerned Sections, June 20,
1949. Ju1y 15, 1949.
3.
Copy of check note from
D C/S SCAP to DS, August 3,
1949,
301
RBFinn:CKHuston:hh
Parchment Mat to Department.
Copy to American Embassy, Seoul.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use-enly)
G513

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 554 dated August 15, 1949,
from Office of United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Status
of Koreans in Japan".
COPY
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Staff
SUBJECT:
Status of Koreans in Japan
I. Problem: To recommend policies for the treat-
ment of Koreans in Japan.
II. Fasts: 1. Japanese Government officials
estimate that there are now about 8o0, 000 persons of
Korean origin in Japan. The majority of these have
continually resided in Japan since the surrender of
Japan on 2 September 1945; the remainder are for the
most part persons who have illegally entered Japan
from Korea since that time. About 600,000 persons
have registered with the Japanese Government as Koreans.
2. Allied policy toward Koreans in Japan at
the war's end was stated as follows in a policy
decision approved by the Far Eastern Commission on
5 June 1946(FEC-034/1):
"G. Formosan-Chinese and Koreans.
(1) The Supreme Commander should
treat Formosan-Chinese and Koreans as
liberated people in so far as military
security permits. They are not included
in the term 'Japanese' as used in this
paper but they have been Japanese subjects
and may be treated, in case of necessity,
as enemy nations. They should be identi-
fied as to nationality, place of residence,
and present location.  They may be repa-
triated if they so desire under such regu-
lations as the Supreme Commander may estab-
lish. However, priority will be given to
the repatriation of natirals o the United
Nations."
3. SCAP has implemented this policy with respect
to Koreans by facilitating repatriation by Koreans in
Japan to Korea and by directing the Japanese Government
to register Koreans in Japan (SCAPIN 746, 17 Feb 46).
In two press statements 1ssued in November 1946 (TAB A),
SCAP announced publicly that Koreans voluntarily con-
tinuing to reside in Japan would be considered for pur-
poses of treatment as retaining their Japanese nationality
and that they would continue to be so considered until
such time as a duly established Korean Government
accorded them recognition as Korean tionals it was
emphasized that Koreans were not required  btain
Japanese citizenship and that the Occupation had no
intention of interfering with the fundamental rights of
any person

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Enelosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
554, August 15,
1949。
-2-
any person in regard to citizenship. SCAP policy for
the treatment of Koreans in Japan had been recommended
in radio C-61223, 21 May 46, from SCAP to WARCOS
(TAB B), and approved in W-89799, 31 May 46, from
WARCOS (TAB C). No other definite statement of general
poliey toward Koreans in Japan has been publicly
issued by SCAP.
4. The Japanese Government, in compliance with
SCAP instructions, has separately registered Koreans
in Japan. It has also deprived most of the Koreans
in Japan of the right to vote in Japanese elections or
to hoid office in Japan by enacting in 1945 a require-
ment that only persons registered in family registers
in Japan could vote or hold office; Koreans were never
permitted to move their own family registers from Korea
to Japan and hence became ineligible to vote. (Regis-
tration in Japanese families was possible in instances
of adoption into Japanese families). Koreans are
subject to Japanese legal jurisdiction and receive the
same food rations and educational privileges as
Japenese. The Japanese Government has not enacted
legislation depriving Koreans in Japan of their Japanese
nationality.
5. The Government of the Republis of Korea,
which was established in August 1948 and recognized by
the General Assembly of the United Nations in
December 1948. has not formally accorded recognition
to Horeans in Japan as Korean nationals, and Korean
nationality law is not specific in regard tc their possi-
ble possession of Korean nationality. The Korean
Diplomatic Mission in Japan, which was established in
December 1948, has evinced a desire to register at
least some of the Koreans in Japan as Korean nationals,
and would apparently prefer to effect a quite general
registration.
ITI. Discussion of the Problem?
1. Establishment and general recognition of
the Government of the Republic of Korea, together with
the indefinite prospect of a general peace settlement
in the Far East, make it particularly desirable to
review the policy pursued to date by this Headquarters
toward Koreans in Japan -that of considering them
as Japanese for the purpose of treatment.
2. The problems posed by Koreans in Japan are
well-known. The Japanese consider the Koreans an
inferior race and have constantly discriminated against
them. Koreans in many cases resort to illegal activity
and are frequently involved with the Japanese police;
Koreans are particularly notorious as blackmarketeers,
smugglers,
CONLTDENTTAI

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-3-
smugglers, and tax evaders. The incidence of criminal
cases involving Koreans is excessively high. Koreans
have simultaneously demanded the privileges of foreign
nationals in Japan and of Japanese citizens, while
they have been denied certain of the privileges
attached to either status. Politically, many of the
Koreans in Japan seem strongly inclined to communism,
and Koreans form a significant element in the strength
of the Japan Communist Party.
3. Koreans in Japan are for the most part un-
willing to return to Korea. Relatively attractive
prospects in Japan have induced many Koreans illegally
to enter (and to re-enter) Japan from Koret wi+h the
result that the Korean population in Japan is constantly
growing. It is understood that some Koreans are will-
ing to pay as much as two million yen for adoption into
Japanese families and consequent acquisition of full
rights as Japanese citizens. Until greater stability
is achieved in the Far East, particularly in Korea,
it is likely that Japan will continue to attract Koreans.
4. Neither the Japanese Government nor, so
far as is known, the Korean Government has taken any
definite position in regard to solution of the Korean
minority problem in Japan. Certain officials of the
Japanese Government initially and informally indicated
that they would prefer that Koreans in Japan be con-
sidered as foreign nationals in order that Koreans be
set apart from the Japanese community and their even-
tua removal from Japan facilitated; they frankly
acknowledge that uncertainty concerning Japan's future
political and military status is creating doubt as to
Japan"s ability to handle a difficult minority problem.
Although the Korean Government 1s reported to be con-
sidering the problem, it has so far assumed no position
beyond making vague statements about the "600,000
Korean residents of Japan." The Korean Government would
like to register at least some of the Koreans in Japan
as Korean nationals. President Rhee of Korea has also
indicated both publicly and in a private communication
to the Supreme Commander that his Government is willing
to receive Korean trouble-makers deported from Japan;
copy of a letter dated 7 April 1949 to General MacArthur
from the Head of the Korean Diplomatic Mission indicat-
ing President Rhee's position is appended as TAB D.
5. From a legal point of view, it appears that
Koreans who have continuously resided in Japan since
September 1945 are Japanese nationals and in addition
possess power to assume Korean nationality.
Korean nationality was extinguished as a result of
the annexation of Korea by Japan in 1910. Koreans
became Japanese

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No。 554, August 15,
1949。
-4-
became Japanese subjects. Those persons of Korean
origin who were in Japan at the war's end were clearly
Japanese subjects. Implementation of Allied policy
and actions of the Japanese Government have not
operated to deprive Koreans in Japan of their Japanese
naticnality or to confer upon them a new nationality
status. Separation of Korea from Japan and establish-
ment of a duly recognized goverrment in Korea do not
seem to have changed the status of Koreans who remained
in Japan; but they have acquired the power to return
to Korea where, by operation of Kerean law, they would
presumably acquire Korean nationality. The nationality
law of the Korean Governmen! which was promulgated
2
on 20 December 1948, does not appear automatically
to confer Korean nationality upon Koreans who have
continuously resided in Japan, since the law does not
attempt to deal with the nationality of persons of
Korean origin cutside of Korea. Nor has the Korean
Government recognized by official act that Koreans con-
tinuously resident in Japan possess Korean nationality.
It would seem clear, therefore, that from a legal point
of view Koreans who have resided in Japan since
September 1945 are Japanese subjects and do not possess
Korean naticnality, although it is probable that the
Korean Government would impose only minor procedural
requirements upon their acquiring Korean nationality if
they were to take steps to acquire it. There seems to be
no present legal obstacle to action by the Korean
Government through its Mission in Japan to register
Koreans in Japan as Korean naticnals.
Koreans who have established residence in Korea
since September 1945 would appear to be Korean nationals
and not Japanese na tionals as a result of the surren-
der of Japan and the separation of Korea from Japan.
6. Koreans who have continuously resided
in Japan since 2 September 1945 have therefore not been
recognized by the Korean Government as Korean nationals
and must be considered as retaining Japanese national-
ity. In the absence of recognition by the Korean Govern-
ment of their possessing Korean nationality, they
will have no basis for claiming special treatment on
the grcund that they are foreign nationals and they
should continue to be treated as Japanese. They should
be treated as Japanese in all respects, including treat-
ment in connection with the foreign investment program;
in addition to legal considerations, it would as a prac-
tical matter be virtually impossible to enforce against
all Koreans the licensing and other limitations which
apply to business activity by foreign nationals. It
is to be noted that numerous petitions have been received
from groups of Koreans requesting that the limitations
applying
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No。 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-5-
applying to the business activity of foreign nation-
als be not applied to Koreans.
7. The Korean Government, through its
Diplomatic Mission in Tokyo, has the right to regis-
ter as Korean nationals persons of Korean origin who
have been continuously resident in Japan since 2 September
1945. Acknowledgment by SCAP of the exercise of this
function is considered desirable because it accords
with the sovereign right of the Korean Government to
determine who are Korean nationals, because the Korean
Government pursuant thereto might normally be expected
to desire to exercise this function of government by
registering nationals resident abroad, and because the
Korean Government might be able to assist in the solu-
tion of the problem of Koreans in Japan by according
recognition to those persons of Korean origin in Japan
who demonstrate their allegiance to Korea. Issue by
the Korean Diplcmatic Mission of a Certificate of
Korean Nationality to those Koreans whom it registers
as Korean nationals and the Certificate itself, should
be recognized.
As a political weapon the power of the Korean
Government to register Koreans in Japan as Korean na-
tionals should increase the prestige of the Korean
Government among Koreans in Japan, and if effectively
exercised will assist the efforts of the Korean Govern-
ment to combat communism.
It is desirable that Koreans not be registered
with the Korean Diplomatic Mission as Korean nationals
on a wholesale and uncontrolled basis. Friction between
Japanese and Koreans would certainly be aggravated if
large numbers cf Koreans were to assert foreign national
status and at the same time claim the privileges of
Japanese nationality. There is. however, no certain
way by which SCAP can insure that this number will be
kept to reasonable proportions, particularly since the
Korean Government is the sole authority for determining
who are. in its own eyes, Korean nationals. Any commu-
nication to the Korean Government should, however, indi-
cate the desirability of maintaining, in any registration
proceeses which may be established, suitable standards
and criteria to insure the issuance of certificates of
Korean nationality for continued residence in Japan only
to bona fide Koreans having legitimate and reasonable
grounds for continuing their residence in this country.
In any case, it is probable that the mechanics of
examining and approving applications for registration
will be such that only a limited number of Koreans in
Japan could be registered in the early stages of the
registration
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-6-
registration program.
8. In order to reduce the incidence of dual
nationality in cases where Koreans who have continu-
ously resided in Japan since 2 September 1945 regis-
ter wi th the Korean Diplomatic Mission as Korean
nationals, it is considered reasonable that these
Koreans relinquish Japanese nationality if it is
determined by the Japanese Government that they pos
sess Japanese nationality. Appropriate procedures should
be established by the Japanese authorities to vali-
date relinquishment of Japanese nationality under
Japanese law and to effect consequent release from
obligations pertaining to such nationality. Those
Koreans who are registered by the Korean Diplomatic
Mission and who effectively relinquish Japanese na-
tionality should be considered as foreign nationals
and should be treated in all respects as foreign
nationals: this will mean that Koreans will be entit
led to deal in foreign currencies, to travel abroad
freely, and to carry on investment and other activity
in the same way as other non-Japanese and under the
same restrictions.
Koreans who are registered with the Korean Diplo-
matic Mis sion as Korean nationals should present
their Certificates of Korean Nationality to designated
Japanese authorities, who will take appropriate steps
to record relinquishment of Japanese nationality.
By requiring that Koreans must possess a Certi-
ficate of Korean Nationality and must relinquish
Japanese nationality before SCAP and the Japanese
Government will accord them the status of foreign
nationals. the number of Koreans in Japan who acquire
foreign naticnal status will not be unlimited. ScaP's
obligation to maintain order in Japan will not be
affeeted even though the Korean Diplomatic Mission
should register large numbers of Koreans in Japan as
Korean nationals. If it is found that registration
of Koreans as Korean nationals is so conducted by the
Korean Mission as to facilitate the documentation as
Korean nationals of persons who have no good reason
to remain in Japan or who seek registration merely to
ac quire the rights and privileges of foreign nationals
while attempting at the same time to retain the rights
and privileges which they have enjoyed as Japanese
nationals ScaP should take steps to control the relin-
quishment of Japanese naticnality and to withhold
recognition of foreign national status in the case of
those Koreans whose relinquishment of Japanese national-
ity is not approved. It is conceded that some friction
between SCAP and the Korean Government may be engendered
if SCAP

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-7
if SCAP does not recognize the foreign national status
of all Koreans possessing Certificates of Korean
Nationality but such action could be justified by
SCAP's duty to maintain order in Japan and by the
Jap nese Government's right to treat as Japanese any
person of Japanese nationality permanently resident
in Japan even though also possessing the nationality
of some other country.
9. A communicatien should be addressed to the
Korean Diplomatic Mission out lining concisely the
views held by ScaP in regard to the status and treat-
ment of Koreans in Japan. Appended as TAB E is a draft
nove to the Korean Ambassador containing these views
and requesting the comments of the Korean Government.
10. No change is contemplated in existing
repatriation practice. As has consistently been ScaP's
policy, Koreans in Japan should be encouraged to trans-
fer their residence to Korea. Nor is any change con-
sidered necessary in the case of Koreans found to have
entered Japan illegally; these persons are returned to
Korea after it has been estahlished to the satisfaction
of Cccupatien repatriation authorities thet they are
in Japan illegally.
 Since Kereans who have continuously resided
in Japan since 2 September 1945 and have not renounced
Japanese nataonality remain Japanese nur enals, it would
seem desirable that they be treated as Japanese in all
respects and be obliged to chey Japanese laws; and this
naturally raises the question hether as Japanese citi-
zens they should in the conrse of time be given the
privileges of voting and heldins public office. Japanese
Government officials obgect to the extension of such
privileges for the prineipal reason that they consider
the leyalty of most Koreans to be divided and to be more
inclined toward Korea than to Japan: as a consequence
they believe that Koreans in Japan should not acquire
the full privileges of Japanese citizenship. They
point cut that Koreans in Japan. as liberated people,
were placed in a special status which has not yet been
preciseiy determined end that as a result of this
special sratus Koreans have been separately registered
and have not been admitted to the right to vote. It
is believed that the Japanese contention has some merit,
particularly since the Jopanese Government should he
permitted to insure that persons entitled to the privi-
lege of Japanese citizenship ere lcyal to the Japanese
Government If Koreans legally in Japan were given the
full privileges of Japanese citizenship, their position
in Japan would become firmer and their incentive to
return to Kcrea weaker. Another practical consideration
2
is that re-enfranchisement of Koreans would undoubtedly
mean many additicnal votes for leftis! elements in
Japan.
12. It is

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-8
12. It is believed that Koreans should not
yet be allowed to vote in Japanese elections for the
reason that their ultimate nationality status is
"indeterminate." They retain the right to return to
Korea at any time. by which they would divest them-
selves of Japanese nationality. In addition they possess
the power to assume Korean nationality while in Japan
by meeting standards prescribed by the Korean Govern-
ment. Their Japanese nationality would thus seem so
quelified as to remove any element of discrimination in
their not being ponsidered Japanese nationals within
the meaning of relevant elestoral provisions of che
Jap nese Constitution, and so qualified as to render
justifiable the prohibition of their right to vote in
Japan. The ferm and date of a final determination
of the nationality of all Koreans in Japan are not
foreseeable but presumably this decision will be made
at the time of a peace settlement or some other defini-
tive international agreement invelving Japan and Korea.
The right to vote and hold office should await such
settlement or negotiation between Japan and Korea.
13. Kereans now in Japan who transferred their
residence to Japen since 2 September 1945 other than
by SCaP permiasion are not in Japan legally. do not
possess the right of residen: e in Japan. and should be
deported to Kerea. The cooperation of the Korean
Diplomatic Mission should be sought in cases invely-
ing depertation of Koreans iliegally in Jepan.
14. It is nelleved that the poliey recommended
hereir shoald not be publtcfaea by der  me a direstive
or other publie statement. Although publleity would
serve a useful purpose by clearly apprisina all parties
in interesr ot their rights and privileges. it is
probable that Koreans in Japan and in Korea would be
aroused by an announcement that Koreans in Japan
except in a restrieted number of cases. will contirue
 be treated as Japanese. Annoumcement of this policy
in November l946 proveked considerable Korean resent-
menty and it appears desirable te avoid repetition of
this. This would not. of course. preclude announcement
by the Korean Government or iis Mission here of the
basis on which it prcposes to register Koreans in Japan.
TV. Conclusiena, I. Persons of Korean origin
who have continuously resided in Japen sinee 2 September
1945 retain Japanese nationality.
a. The ultimate naticnaiity of these persons
is indeterminate in the absenae of an agreement invol-
ving Kerea and Japen as to their nationality.
E. These persons of Korean crigin retain the
right to
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyos Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949.
COUUTNRNUTTAT
-9
right to restde in Japan but are subject to Japenese
laws and should be Ireated as Japaness. I scause
their ultimate nationality status is indererminate
and becanse their allegiance is presumably divided
between Korea and Japan. SdaY' has no inte rest in
causing the Japanese Government to extent to them the
right to vete or to held publie of fice in Japan.
2. The Korean Goveroment has power to extend
recoanition as Korean nationals to nersons of Korean
crigin whe have conrinuously reaided in Japan since
2 September 1945. If the Korean Government rhrough
its Diplcmati Mission in Japen registers Koreans
in Japan as Kerean nationals ani issues to them Cer-
tificates of Kerean Nationelity, ScaP should not
object.
3.
Keresns whe pessess Certifivates of Korean
Naticnality and whe have relinuuished Japanese naticnality
are entitled to the status and treatment of foreign
natienale, The Japanese Government should appropriately
record rela puishment cr Japanese natienality by these
Koreensa Kereans whe possess Certificates of Korean
Nattonot ty but who nave pet efrestively relinqutshed
Japanese natiereiluy de no wapuire the status of
folesen nationais.
4. No abange ta necessery in present procedure
for p pomtntuee et Koreans ant deper tior of illegal
entranrs me Korear
Do Rareans now in hopan who bave established
roe n epn se e Septemoer 1p4s other than
by Sear permission do mot pessess Capanese nationality.
hase ne trient to resde sn apan. sra chould be deported.
V
tia recommended that
i The foregoine conainsions be approved as
tepresentieg So ap vlews and polisy witn respect to
Koreana r Jepon. and
Draft note. appamaed as TAP Ey be sent to
Korean Duplemarts Missten n reply to its note on
repatrtarten topether with neloaure sutlining pre
posed Soat viewe in reeard o resistxatten of Koreans.
Incla As tabbed
REFinn:hh

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15, 1949.
-10-
COPY
(TAB A)
PRESS RELEASE 16:30 Nov 12, 1946
KOREANS MUST REPORT TO RECEPTION CENTERS WHEN CALLED
OR FR FEIT RECOGNITION AS KOREAN NATIONALS
Koreans in Japan who refuse to return to their
homeland under the SCAP tepatriation program will be
considered as retaining their Japanese nationality
until such time as a duly establlshed Korean Govern-
ment acccrds them recognition as Korean nationals,
SCAP officials said teday.
Fn e of any Korean to report to the reception
center when he is called for repatriation will be
construed as a refusal unless such failure was due
to cireumstances beyond his control, repatriation
officers stated. By such refusal. the individual
forfeits nis privilege of repatriation until such
time as normal commercial tranapertation between
Japan and Kerea is resumed.
Koreans tefusing to return, it was added, also
forfeit the right of review by Occupation authorities
in Japanese criminal court prcceedings in which they
might become invelved.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
UNITED STATES ARMY FORCES, PACIFIO
Public Relatioms Office
Press Release?
SCAP SPOKESMAN CLARIFIES STATUS AND
TREATMENT OF KORRANS IN JAPAN
A spokesman for SCAP issued the following state-
ment today:
Recent misconceptions appearing in some sections
of the press in regard to the status and treatment of
Koreans in Japan require clarification.
From the earliest days of the Occupation it has
been the policy of the Occupation Authcrities, pur-
suant to United States, and later, Allied policy
decisions, to accord Koreans treatment as liberated
pecple and do everything possible for their welfare.
Steps were promptly taken to free from prison those
held for political reasons and to liberate those who
were virtually slave laborers. A program of repatria-
tion was initiated and to date over 919, 000 have been
returned to their native land, not including more
than 14,O00 whc 1llegally re-entered Japan and who have
been repatriated a second time. There are now approxi-
mately 600,000 Koreans 1n Japan of which only approxi-
mately 75, 000 have requested repatriation. The
Japanese auth: 'ies have been issued strict orders to
insure that Korcis are not discriminated against in
any way and the Occupation au'horities are at constant
pains tc see that these direc ons are given full effect.
Koreans charged by police authorities with com-
mission of crimes have had th: additional protectiom
provided by review of their (ses by the Occupation
Authorities. Prosecution has, of course, been insti-
tuted against Koreans as well as all other persons
who engage in illegal black market or other criminal
activities.
Press statements to the effect that this Head-
quarters recently issued an order that Korean matiomals
remaining in Japan after 15 December 1946 must obtaim
Japanese citizenship are entirely incorrect. The
Occupation Authorities mintention of imterferin
in any way with the fundamen:l rights of any person
of any nationality in regard to retention, relinquish-
ment or choice of citizenship. Under date of
16 October 1946 this Headquarters issued a memoramdum
to the Japanese Government stating that repatrietiom.
of Koreans

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
Eficlosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15.
-12
1949。
COPY
of Koreans in Japan who were formerly residents of
Ko ea south of the 380 North Latitude, weuld be com-
pleted on or befure 15 De ember 1946 except for those
who have already refused to cemply with repatriation
pl ns. Koreans refusing repatrtation and electing
to remain in this country make their choice with full
knowledge that centinued residence in Japan subjects
them to all appropriate lecal laws and regulations.
Discrimination in favor of Koreans in Japan which would
exempt them frem the obeervance of appropriate local
laws and regularrens weuid create a form of extra-
territeriality. This weuld e wi theut juscification
from eny poin of view end mould be contrary to general
Alljed policy in the light of the eetion of various
Allied Governments in the last few years in relinquishing
the vestige of extraterrrterial jurisdietion in other
countries.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
PROMI GHQ SCAP
TO:
WARCOS
ROUTINB
C 61223
In view of confusion concerming citimemmhip
of Koreans and Formosans in Japan and diffieulty
individuals establishing satisfactory proof hat
may be entitled to special consideration as Kore
or Formosan nationals the following policies hav
tentatively adopted.
"Koreans who voluntarily comtinue to reside im
Japan and who are not accepting repatriztion to Kor
under existing procedure for repatriatiom will pre-
sumptively be considered for purposes of treatmomt
as retaiming their Japanese nationality pending such
time as a duly established Korean Govermment shall
have accorded recogmition to the individual comcermed
as a Korean natiomal.
"Formosans who voluntarily contimue to reside in
Japan and who are mot accepting repatriation will pre-
sumptively be considered for purposes of trestmemt es.
retaining their Japanese nationality pending recogmitiom
by the Chinese Government of the individual comcermed
as a Chinese national."
As the above questions involve intermatiemal
considerations approval of these policies c & govere-
mental level is urgently requested.
OFFICIAL:
APPROVED BY:
B. M. FITCH
GEORGE ATCHESON, JR.
Brigadier General, AGD
Minister
Adjutant Gemeral.
Chief, Diplomatio Sectiom
Info3 G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
-14-
COPY
31 May 1946
INCOMING MESSAGE
FR OM:
WASHINGTON
TO
CINCAFPAC
NR
W 8999
Reurad c Gip2y State Dey approves pelicy for
Koreans outlined urad. Concerning Formosans State
is asking cur Enbassy to appreach Chinese Govt
disere y views before making deeision. Will
advise you of results.
WARCOS
ACTIOU: DS
TNFORLATTON: G-1 G-2. G 3 G 4. AG
363
T00: 301805Z
MCN: ZUA 68

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
KORBAN DIPLOMATIC MISBION IN JAP
TOKYO
April 7th,
Your Excellency:
I have the honour to take this opportunity to
express my sincerest appreciation of the hospitali
extended by Your Excellency since I assumed duties
Japan. I am happy here to be able to inform that
with Your Excellency's courteous support and assist
the task of inaugurating the Korean Diplomatic Misml
is progressing favourably.
I have recently been instructed by President Sy
Rhee to communicate with Your Ex:ellency the attitudo
of the Government of the Republic of Korea as regards
the repatriation of Korean nationals from Japan.
Trusting that the following excerpt will be self-
explanatory, I quote the President's letter which read
in parts
"The question of the repatriation of Koreans from
Japan has recently been under consideration in several
different forms and in several different offices. In
order to clarify the policy of this Government on the
matter, please inform the SCAP authorities that the
Republic of Korea has not requested any gereral repatri-
ation of Koreans from Jepan.
If ScAP authorities so desire, this Government will
be pleased to facilitate the return to Koree some of the
Koreans whc may cause trouble in Janan by agitation,
by spreading pernicious propaganda, : violation of laws,
or by disturbance of peace.
The question of general repatriation of Korean
nationals may most properly be considered in concordanas
with other outstanding questions to be settled through
the Korean-Japanese provisions of the Peace Treaty.
In order to insure clear understanding and to avoid
confusion, all further negotiaticns with Scap on this
subject will be conducted solely through the Korean
Ambassador in Tokyo."
I shall be pleased to hear, at your convenience, vi
of Your Excellency on this subject.
I have the honour to be,
Excellency,
Your obedient Servant,
(Chung, Han-m)
His Excellency
General of the Army
Douglas Masarth

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
DRAFT NOTE TO KORBAN AMBA
Diplomatic Section
sir8
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of.
Your Excellency's note of April 7, 1949, addressed
General MacArthur, informing this Headquarters regar
ing the attitude of the Republic of Korea with respee
to the repatriation of Korean nationals from Japam.
It quoted a letter of instruction to you from Prestdont
Rhee expressing his desire that negotiations with this
Headquarters on the subject of repatriation of Koreans
from Japan be conducted through the Korean Ambassador
in Tokyo.
Your Excellency is aware that since the surrender
of Japan it has been the policy of the Supreme Commande
for the Allied Powers to facilitate in every way the
repatriation from Japan, as liberated people, of all
persons of Korean origin who choose repatriation. That
policy continues at the present time. It continues to
be the belief of the Supreme Commander that the best
prospect for alleviation of the difficult problems whieh
must permanently face Korea and Japan in their mutual
foreign relations is contained in further repatriation.
This Headquarters has duly noted the readiness
o Yur Excellency's Government to facilitate the return
to Korea of Koreans in Japan who are guilty of agitation,
pernicious propaganda, viclation of laws, or disturbanoe
of the peace. The soundness and wisdom of this poliey
are indubitable, and this Headquarters will not fail to
assist in its prosecution by all practicable meens.
It is believed that, in connection with repatristion
and the mationality status in Japan of unrepatriated
Koreans, Your Rxcellency may find interest in the follow-
ing expression of the views of this Headquarters on the
subject.
Most of the persons of Korean origin now in Japan
have resided in this country continuously sinoce Japen's
surrender to the Allied Powers on September 2, 1945,
and have hitherto been considered for purposes of
treatment as retaining Jepanese nationality. They shome
be encouraged to avail themselves of the possibility of
being repatriated to Korea at the earliest prsctieable
time. Those who fail to do so will continue to be
considered for purposes of treatment es metaining
Japanese nationality unless they are registared *
Korean nationals by the Korean Diplomatie Missaom
Japan, have in their possession appropriate es
cates attesting such registrathom

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
regognized by the competent Japapese
having relinquished Japanese mtlañali
so registered as Korean natlonalsramt
from the obligations of Japanese natiomslity
accorded treatment as non-Japanese, ine
same time the obligations of foreign nat
their business and other activities.
Persons of Korean origin who are illegelly ros
dent in Japan or who are found by the compotent
ties to be enguged in illegal activitiea in Japan
are liable to deportation to Korea.
In as much as it is tt  interest of all parta
concernei tha: cnly those Korea. s who have logitimate
and reasonable grounds for maintaining continued reai
in Japan shculd at present be entitled to treatment as
nen-Japanese. and sin:e final determination of proble
rela ing to Koreans in Japan may most appropriately
made as a res:l: of an eventual general international
settlement involving Kores and Jepan, it is hoped that
the Korean Goverrment and its Diplcmatie Mis sion in
Japan will recognize the desirability of maintaining
in any registration processes which may be establishe
suitatle standards and criteria to insure the issuamo
of certifi:a:es of Kcrean nationality for continued
residencs in apan to cnly those Koreans who have logi
timate and reascnable grounds for continuing their
residen'e in this country.
Your Exc ller y may wish to communicate the fore-
going views to the Gcvernment of the Republic of Koree.
Accept Excellency, the renewed assurances of my
high: consideratior.
For the Supreme Commander.
Tokye, May
1349.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyb,
Excellency:
I have the honour to present for your.d
tlon and action the enclosed request for the ay
tion of the legel status of Korean residents n
The urgent need for an early and satisfaetory
solution of this problem cannot be over-emphasized
in view of the necessity of guiding and protocting
the more than six hundred thousand Korean resident
falling intc the influence of elements unsound to
democratic cause of the Republic of Korea and the
Elements detrimental to the prestige and principlos
of the Republic of Kcrea, are active in taking advay
tage of the feeling of insecurity in the minds of 
Korean residents in Japan over their ambiguous statas.
The clarification of their status comensurate to
the dignity of the sovereignty of the Republie of Kor
will have an immediate and -reaching beneficial
influence over this considerauly large minority group
of Korean residents in Japan, and will be an asset to
the :ause of Allied Occupation of Jepan.
Accept, Excellency, the continued assurances of
my highest consideration.
CHG Han Pum
Ambassador
Chief. of Mission
His Excellency
William J. Sebald
Diplomatic Section. General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
COPX
The Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan pr
its compliments to the Diplomatic Section, Gem
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
has the honour to request for an early and favoumabl
solution to the question of the legel status of Ko
nationals 1n Jspar.
By virtue of the heroic struggle of the Allies, 
pecially of the United States of America, more than
ten nations. such as Korea ana Chine, were liberated
out of the clurches of Japan s militsristie aggresslon.
Among the conse tuences of the Allied victory over Japm
the liberoticn of the Reputlic of Korea not only is o
the most significant in the demecratization of the ontit
Asia. and the very symbel of dcisive destruction of
Japanese aggression. but slsc has a ravolutionary poli-
tiral signifacance in he worle history.
Kerea was the first to fail victim to the Japanese
war of aggfessicn; and through her sacrifice Japan
steadily pursued its ambitious design of conquering
the Asiatic cont inent and the world, which bad even-
tually caused the Pacifie War. The fact that the
Japonese wars of agarercion were all wagud   the
expense of +he Korcan peninsula and the expl itation
of the Kor-ar peuple is an important facto in the
develcpment of recent history. It is believed there-
fore that the sound developmeni of the Rep lie of
Korea is fundamental to peace in Asia and  ce world.
Thro hout he entire p-ricd of the last war of
aggression, Japan had forced either directly or indirectly.
innumerable Kurean nationals to migrate to Jspan
cstensihly as volunteer labourers and soldiers and under
other misleading terminolcgy. They were so numerous
that after some two mi' cns of them were repatriated
to Korea silce V-J Day. there still remain approximately
six hundred thousands of Korean residents in Japan.
To safeguard the legitimte rlghts nd interests of
these Korean residents in Japan w:ll not only contributo
much to the development of the Republie of Korea, but
also will he a signlficant move toward the removal of
the last vesties of Jananese imperialism.
The Korean Mi ssion in J pan, as the body commissiompd
with the dut ies to protest the lives and pitto tas of
Korean nationals in Japan. has the hcnour to ie.ent the
following discussions on the problem in question;
Al'hough the Government of Korea was usurped by
Japan in 1910 and had been under the Japanese Occupa-
tion for thirty-five years until the Liberation in
1945, the thirty million poople of Korea had never
considered themselves in submission, but hed united
themselves both at home and abroad for a national
tence movement. Among the innumerable manifestati
of thio

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
of this movement, are the extensive 
twenty-six years by the Korean Provisional 
which was first established in March 1919 in
began functioning in Shanghai, China. The P
Government was composed of ardent patriots af
Korean Independ ence Movement, among whom was the
President of the Government of the Republic of ore
Dr. Syngman Rhee. The chief operational bases of
Provisional Governmen! wore in America and Chine.
The so-called Treaty of Annexation of Korea had
never been sancticned by the thirty million people
: Xorea. I vas but an nilat ral imposture by
Japanese militarasm and a product of duress and crast,
and was therefere never recognized by friendly natiom
such as the Republic of China. The people of Korea,
not:ithstanding the oppression by the Japanese which
was intensif:ed with the impcsition of the Treaty of
Annexation. had never considered thet their Government
ceased te er:st. The Japanese cecupation meant only
temporary sspensicn of the exercise of sovereignty of
the Goverrmen! of Korea over its realm. Therefore, in
accordance with the International Law, the Korean people
as a whole had never acquired Japanese netionality, but
have retained their own throughout the ocoupe tional
pericd.
Thirty five years of Japanese ccoupation are but a
fraction of the five thoueand glericus years of Korean
history. This comparatively momentary occupation of
dominently military nature cculd not warrant the compul-
sory acquisil icn of Japunese nationality by the na tione
of Korea. In this respect examples could be quoted in
the case of the Trea!y of Versailles where the people
of Alsace Lorraine were siven back their French mtionality
notwithstanding :he f'fty years of German domination,
and of the vi: toricus eaergence of the French and the
Belg: ans at the close of the World Wer II, who had ro-
tained their nationalitics in spite of the German
occupat:on.
Throughout the thirty five years of Japanose oceu-
pation of Korea, the Nationality Law of Japan had never
been applied or enforced upcn the people of Korea.
Therefore, Korean nationals had never acquired Japanese
nationalify.
Long before he Allied hostility vith Japan, for
thirty five years the thirty million people of Korea
had engaged in Korea and abroad in armed fighting and
unified non-violence resistence against Japan. (e.g. the
Battle of Chungsan Ri, Kaesong, Korea; the famous March
First Independence Movement, June Tenth Movement,
Iwangju Students Incident, and the activities of'
Kwangbok Army in Chungking and other parts of Chims.)
Noting all these historical facts, it is approppaht
to conclude that the Korean pebple have foughta

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1
to'Tokyo's Despatch
-21
No. 554, Augist 15,
1949。
war against Japan since long before the World War II;
and with the participation of the Allied Powers in a
joint counter-attack against Japanese aggression
Korea's prolonged struggle for freedom won a fruitful
result and her independence was realized.
Viewed from this angle, regardless of their
current domicile, the nationals of the Republic of
Kerea should be accorded treatment as Allied Nationals.
This is especially so in regard to the Korean residents
in Japan n view of the unfavourable conditions under
which they originally migrated to Japan, their pro-
longed suffering under the Japanese as an cppressed
minority group. and the peculiar situation in which
they are at the present.
There are several mistaken premises held by certain
authorities cn the problem in question: due to the
annexation ef Korea Koreans had acquired dual natinnlity,
beth Kerean and Japanese; unleas and until "eace treaty
witn Japan is concluded, Koreans in Japan remain as
Japenese netionals: Korean ma tienals in Japan are
people of ceded territory, or of the territory to be
ceded: Koreans had migrated into Japan upon their own
free will with the purpose of establishing permanent
residente. therefere. they must be given the option
in the choice of netionality at the sigring of the Japan
peace treaty as in the case of ceded territory of
Germany efter the World War 1. All the aforementioned
contentions are those of the misguided or of those who
are essentially unsympathetic ve the people and the
Government of the Republic of Korea.
By virtue of the Japanese acceptance of the Pro-
clamation of the Three Powers at Potsdam on July 26, 1945,
and further by sirming the Instrument of Surrender on
September ?. 1945. Japan's supreme and severeign power
to rule the state has been vested in the Supr eme Commander
for the Allied Powers. The present system of occupation
af Jepan is unprenedented in history and has many peculiar
chars ter stias. The fact must be recognized that the
Instrument of Surrender has virtually replaced and sub-
stituted tls funotien of conventicnal peace treaty as has
heretofore been practised under the prineiples of Inter-
natienal Lew. many parts of which have now become
anachrenisti Consequently. the nature of the anticipated
Peace Treaty with Japan is expected to differ by a
large measure from those of previous ones. The very
fact that wn thout waitang for the conclusion of Japanese
Peace Treaty, the Republic of Korea had already estab-
lished ler own Government. which has enjoyed immediate
recegnitien by the United Natiens, eloquently substan-
tiate the above-mentaoned argument. Any contention,
therefore. that until the conelusion of the Peace Treaty
with Japeh. Kerean residents in Japen continue to hold
Japanese

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
-22-
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
Japanese a tionality cannot be considered as justifiable.
With the establishment of the Government of the
Republic of Korea on August 15, 1948, the assumption
of their original nationality by the Korean residents
in Japan is automatic and declaratory, and is not of
a newly created nature; this is legally endorsed by the
United Nations in view of their recognition of the
Republic of Korea. As to the premise about ceded
territory, Korea had never been a ceded territory; Korea
had been a country usurped by craft and duress as
indicated by the Cairo Declaration which spoke of the
Koreans as pecple enslaved and requiring liberation.
As was previously mentioned in this paper, a large
majority of the Korean residents in Japan had migrated
into Japan under either open compulsion or subtle pressure
exerted by the Japanese authorities. Therefore, it is
erronecus to believe that the Korean residents in Japan
are in Japan upon their own free will. Consequently,
the suggestion of giving Kerean residents an option of
raticnality is unacceptable. Should there be any Korean
residents in Japan who wish to become Japanese nationals,
it is purely a matter of naturalization on the part of
indivic. . To take a historical precedent, the case
of the nationality of the people of Alsace-Lorraine at
the end of World War I may be used as an excellent example:
President Wilscn of the United States of America, in
laying down the famous fourteen basie principles on the
Allied Peace Treaty with Germany, had specified that
the rectification of the wrongs done to the people of
Alsace Lorraine during the fifty year German domination,
which had created then the initial danger to world peace,
must be included as an essential condition to the signing
of the Peace Treaty. In the preamble of the Treaty of
Versailles, the case of Alsace-Lorraine was again mentioned
to the effect that the signatory powers were cognizant
of the moral duty involved in the necessity of restor-
ing the territory of Alsace-Lorraine to the Republic of
France in accordance with the wishes of the people of
Alsace-Lorraine to regain their French nationality.
Articles 53 and 34 of the same Treaty also declared that
the people of Alsace-Lorraine were to be restored their
French nationality, and denounced the suggestion of
enforcing the option of nationality upon then as advocated
by the Germans. Articles 26, 60, 3 and 297a of the
same Treaty are also available as precedents and guiding
rules to the present question in discussion.
Another good indication that he Korean residents
in Japan are not Japanese nationals may be found in
a Directive issued by the General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, (SCAPIN 757, file AG O15,
dated 19 February 1946 subject: Review of Sentences for
Korean and Other Nationals.) where it was stated that
Korean nationals sentenced by Japanese criminal courts
are entitled to review by the SCAP authorities. This is
an evident

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
-23
to' Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
an evident manifestation of the effort on the part of
the SCAP authorities to distinguish Korean residents
in Japan as non-Japanese nationals.
With the above discussions in consideration, and
in view of the dignity assumed by the Republic of Korea
upon her recs nition by the United Nationa, and her
pending admission as a member of the United Nations,
it is both appropriate and imperative that the Korean
residents in Japan be accorded the status of the
Allied nationals in accordance with the fundamental
principles of International Law and Justice.
Should the large number of the Korean residents
in Japan make it hesitant on the part of the SCAP
authorities to accord special treatment in view of the
burden in personnel and material that may be incurred,
the Korean Mission has the honour to stress that this
request is made more for the moral than material
benefit that is involved, and that the Korean Mission
will always be available to assume all relevant respon-
sibilities and for close cocperation with the SCAP
authorities upon this important matter.
The Korean Diplcmatic Mission in Japan avails
itself of this opportunity to further assure the
Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, of its highest esteem.
Korean Diplomatic Misslon in Japan
May 3, 1949

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch,
-24-
554, August 15, 1949。
COPY
GONFIDENTIAL
6661
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMAND
CHECK SHEET
(Lt Col Erlenbusch
26-5926)
File No:
Subject: Status and Treatment of Koreans
in Japan
Note
From: G-1
To: Diplomatic Section Date: 20 May 1949
No.
2
1. G-1 concurs in principle with the action
proposed by DS in the attached study; however,
it is recommended that the fcllowing changes
be made:
a. Provisions be made that those
Koreans who do not desire to register as
Korean nationals, but desire to take out full
Japanese citizenship be granted such opportunity
by methods to be discussed upon receipt of
reply to the proposed letter to the Korean
Mission in Japan.
b. As an additioral action, State and
Army be notified of SCAP's action on this sub-
ject.
1. Incl:
Study: Status of
Koreans in Japan
R。H.H。
for
W。 A。B.—-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
-25-
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatie Section
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, May 20, 1949.
MEMORANDUM OF CONFERENCE
SUBJECT: DS Staff Study on Status and Treament of
Koreans in Japan
1. At a conference called by Diplomatic Section
on 20 May 1949. the following attended:
G-1Major J. J. Wilderman
G-2 - Lieutenant Colonel V. C. Aurell
Captain R. H. Calvert
GS - Mr. F. Rizzc
LS - Mr. J. Bassin
Mr. J. W. Canney
DS - Mr. R. B. Finr.
2. The first point discussed was the nationality
of Koreans in Japan. There was general agreement that
Koreans who have continuously resided in Japan since
Japan's surrender on 2 September 1945 are Japanese
naticnals and are not Korean nationals. It was agreed
that these Koreans could acquire Korean nationality
by registering with the Korean Mission.
3. The means by which the Japanese Government
deprived Koreans in Japan of the right to vote and the
legality of this action were discussed. (Koreans
lost the right to vote in 1945 when the Japanese Diet
passed a law limiting suffrage to those Japanese
nationals whose family registers were located in Japan.)
Mr. Rizzo pointed out that the constitutionality of
this action was not clear and commented that the Far
Eastern Commission had, in a message sent SCaP for
information. pointed to certain difficulties connected
with the definition of "Japanese national". Mr. Bassin
said that Koreans were now being treated as Japanese
nationals and not as Japanese citizens, a relation
comparable to that of Guamanians to American citizens,
and that the desirability of according these Koreans
the full privileges of Japanese citizens should be
considered. Mr. Finn observed that there were two
major reasons against permitting all Koreans in Japan
to vote: one, a security reason in that many of the
Koreans are leftists and thus there would be many added
votes for the Communist Party; amd two, the fact that
many of these
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
-26
Tokyo's Despatch No.
554, August 15, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
many of these Koreans will probably decide to return
to Korea ultimately and their loyalty to Japan is
therefore presumably divided.
4. Mr. Rizzo and Mr. Canney questioned the
necessity of a change in policy and indicated that few
of the existing problems would be solved by permitting
the Korean Mission to register Koreans in Japan as
Korean nationals. Mr. Canney felt that only if the
Korean Mission reccgnized and endeavored to protect
large numbers of Koreans in Jepan would there be any
appreciable gain from this proposed change of policy.
Mr. Finn pointed out that for diplcmatic reasons it was
highly desirable for SCaP to acknowledge the Korean
Government's right to recognize and protect persons
it considered to be Korean nationals; it was also noted
that the position of the Korean Mission would be
stronger and its ability to assist SCAP greater if it
were empowered to recognize and protect persons as
Korean nationals. It was generally agreed that dinlo-
matic considerations justified SCAP's acknowl dgment
of the right of the Korean Government to recognize
and register Korean nationals in Japan.
5. Colonel Aurell said that he thought that the
status of Koreans in Japan would be further clarified
if Koreans were given a chance to assert and receive the
benefits of Japanese nationality, just as they would
under the terms of the staff study get the chance to
apply for and receive Korear nationality. Mr. Bassin
supported this idea and suggested that it might be
implemented by requesting the Japanese Government to
take steps to permit all Jepanese m ticnals to file
their family registers in Japan and thereby in accor-
dance with Japanese law acquire full privileges as
Japanese citizens; this procedure would apply not only
to Koreans but to Formosans and Ryukyuans, whose
status in Japan is similar to that of Koreans, and the
instruction to the Japanese Government could be phrased
in such a way as not to refer to Koreans directly.
Major Wilderman and Mr. Finn also felt that Colonel
Aurell's proposal was a valuable one.
6. Mr. Rizzo expressed his feeling that the interest
of the Japanese in this problem was paramount and he
thought that the best disposition of the problem would
probably be to defer it until such time as Japan and
Korea could on a basis of equality determine what to
do with the Korean minority. Mr. Canney emphasized that
we still would have a large, undigested minority group
in Japan and said that the proposals made for alleviating
this problem did not seem to him to do more than to add
to the complications. Mr. Bassin said that he thought
the proposals advanced would held to define the problem,
to give
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclesure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch
27
No. 554, August 15,
1949
CONFIDENTIAL
to give the Korean minority a chance to decide whether
they wanted to be Korean or Japanese, and thus facili-
tate a solution of the problem in the future. It was
agreed that the difficulties caused by Korean Commu-
nists would probably not be greatly reduced by adop-
tion of the proposals made in the study and by Colonel
Aurell, although it was noted thst increase of the
prestige of the Korean Mission would increase its
power to win over the large group of Koreans who were
stringing along with the Communists for reasons of
expediency.
7e It was agreed that the following procedure
should be adopted
a. The right of the Korean Government through
its Mission in Japan to register Koreans as Korean
nationals should. as proposed in the staff study, be
acknowledged in a letter to the Korean Ambassador.
b. A radio should be sent to the Department
of the Army for information indicating that the Korean
Government was being so informed.
Ca. After an understanding has been reached
between SCAP and the Korean Government in regard to
registration of Korean nationals, the Japanese Govern-
ment should be informed that Koreans registered with
and documented by the Korean Mission should be treated
as foreign nationals and should be considered as having
relinquished Japenese nationality.
d. The Japanese Government should also be
approached vith a view to permitting persons of Japanese
nationality resident in Japan to transfe mtoprftle
in Japan their family registers: this act would-be
considered equivalent to naturalization and would en-
title persons so transferring or filing family registers
in Japan to all the rights and privileges of Japanese
citizenship.
8. It was agreed that a. and b. of paragraph 7 above
were the only steps required to be taken at this time,
and that at the proper time DS should initiate proposals
with regard to c. and d. of paragraph 7 and that these
proposals would be considered on their merits at that
time.
R. B. Firn
Copies to:
26-5528
G-1
G-2
GS
LS
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1
-28-
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
COPY
1949。
-CONFIDENTIAL
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
DS:WJS:RBF:hh
Mr.Finn
File No:
Subject: Status and Treatment
26-5528
of Koreans in Japan
Note.
From: DS
To: LS
Date: 2 May 1949
No。
GS
G-1
ESS(FIB)
(Separate copies to each)
1
1. C/S has requested DS to "submit appro-
priate recommendations to the Chief of Staff
concerning the desirability of changing the
present policy for treatment of Horeans in
Japan."
2. Forwarded herewith is a staff study
on this problem.
3. Concurrence (or comment) is requested
prior to submitting the inclosed study to C/S.
1 Incl:
Staff Study
From: G-2
To: DS
Date: 18 May 1949
2
1. G-2 concurs with the policies as out-
lined in the Diplomatic Section's staff-study,
subject: "Status of Koreans in Japan". G-2
further concurs in the draft note to the Korean
Ambassador in which is outlined the procedure
for according foreign national status to certain
Koreans in Japan. It is noted with approval
that this procedure, as outlined, will do much
to clarify the status of all Koreans residing
in Japan and to obviate the troublesome problem
of legally established dual nationality status
of these Koreans.
2. G-2 strongly recommends that in the
implementation of this plan the Korean Mission
be encouraged to carefuily screen applicants
for recognition as Korean nationals to the end
that only those who are sincerely interested
in the advancement of the Republic of Korea will
be grant ed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to.Tokyo's Despatch
-29-
No. 554, August 15,
1949.
be granted Korean citizenship, with the atten-
dant privileges of foreign national status
while residing in Japan. This screening process
may include the following:
a. Application for Korean citizenship
to be made on a prescribed form to include per-
sonal history statement, photograph and fimuer
prints of the applicant.
b. A statement of renunciation of any
claims to Japanese or other nationality to
accompany the application.
c. The Mission may wish to require an
oath of allegiance to the Republic of Korea
as a requirement to the final issuance of docu-
ments certifying Korean citizenship.
3. G-2 further suggests that a stipulated
requirement of recognition of Korean na tionals
as foreign nationals be that some form of iden-
tification, or preferably a passport be issued
to each individual so registered by the. Korean
Mission.
1 Incl:
w/d
- - C.A。W。
CONFIDENTIAL
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1
-30-
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
COPY
1949。
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREIE COMIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
CHECK SIEET
Mag Napier 26 6962
File No.
Subject: Status and Treatment of Koreans
in Japan
Mote No.
Freme
GS
DS
Date: 16 June 1949
2
Gevernment Ser plon has sertain reserva-
tions as to the advisability of the action
proposed by Diplematic Sec tion in the
attached staff study on the status of Koreans
in Japan. but in view of prevailing U.S.
policy and the prefdominant inuerest of
Diplometie Sectien in the subject matter,
it will interpose no objectiol.
1 IncI
T/

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1
-31-
to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 554, August 15,
COPY
1949。
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SIEET
DS :WJS :RBF:hh
File No: S-350 Subjecta Status and Treatment
Mr. Finn
of Koreans in Japan
26-5528
Note
From:
DS
To: LS
Date: 2 May 1949
No。
GS
G-1
2
G-2
ESS (FIB)
(Separate copies to each).
I. C/S has requested DS to "submit appro-
priate recommendations to the Chief of Staff
concerning the desirability of changing the
present policy for treatment of Koreans in
Japans"
2. Forwarded herewith is a staff study
on this problem.
3, Conourrence (or comment) is requested
prior to submitting the inclosed study to
C/S.
Incl: Staff Study
--- -H J S ----
2
From IS
To: DS
Date: 9 June 1949
Legal Seetion views the problem presented
by Diplomatic Seation as one involving an attempt
to solve the minority puestion of ever half a
millton Koreans living anong the Japanese. The
scope of the problem is effected by realization
of two important component factors therecf:
first, that these Koreans will continue to re
side in Japan unless economic and political
conditions in Japan render it unbearable to do
se, and there is a corresponding improvement
of the standerd of living in Kerea: and secondly,
the fact that for the foreseeable future, "feeling"
will continue to exist between Japanese and
Koreans, due to the facts of history. Added to
these factors should be the recognition of the
peculiar position of the United States, with its
interest in maintaining a peaceful relationship
between Korea and Japan as essential to achieve-
ment of its objectives in the Far East.
CONFIDENTIAL
2. Accepting

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Accepting as a premise
of the problem presented above, Legal
is of the opinion that the solution to
problem should be realistic and practfoal
a view toward permanency, rather than & pi
conceived as a temporary expedient. Such plan
should have as its objective the eliminatlom
in Japan of the Korean minority as a group,
should be based on two alternative general
courses of action, namely:
(a) Repatriation of Koreans;
(b) Absorption of Koreans into Japamese
life, politically, economically, and culturally.
3. REPaTRIATION. Since the Korean repatrisy
tion policy in Japen is predicated on a voluntery
basis, encouragement should continue to be given
in that direction, and the repatriation facilities
therefor left open indefinitely. There do not
appear to be any present difficulties in that
respect, and consequently this avenue of approach
already in existence, may be regarded as a partial
solution to the over-all problem of eliminating
the Korean minority as a group.
ABSORPTION.
(a) Inasmuch as the Korean repatriation
program is voluntary in nature, there will be a
large segment of Koreans who will not desire
repatriation for many reasons, rogardless of the
inducement. It may be assumed that those Koreans
now in Japan represent that segment. Of this
group, some may wish the opportunity to become
full-fledged Japanese citizens, whereas others
will desire to renounce Japanese m tionality,
acquire Korean nationality and continue to reside
in Japan; and the balance may not desire:any
change in status from their present one. weat
proportion of the present Korean population in
Japan will wish to join any of these three ele-
ments cannot now be predicted with any aeouradr.
However, it is believed that in any solution to
the problem, opportunity should be accorded thess
Koreans to align themselves with one of these.
elements. Hence, those that elect Korean nationm
ity will be treated as aliens, those who become
Japanese citizens will in due course become
assimilated within the local population, and the
balance will have the opportunity of either, but
remain legally Japanese nationals.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to
-33c
Tokyo's Despatch No.
CONFIDENTIAL
554, August 15,
1949。
(b) This plan, if adepted, will clearly
define Koreans into two classes for legal treat-
ment, namely: Korean nationals and Japanese
nati onals.  Within the latter group of Japanese
nationals of Korean ancestry, will be either
Japanese citizens with full political rights,
or Japanese na tionale without them. It is
believed that those Japanese nationals of
Korean ancestry who do not take any action will
soon discover that it is to their advantage
to become either Korean nationals or to acquire
full fledged Japanese citizenship. Thus, in
this way. Koreans in Japan will eventually be
divided into distinet legal groups and so
divided will be subjeat to better control, both
for purposes of repatri tion and absorption.
Koreans whe renounee Japanese nationality and
thereby beeome sliena. will be expeeted to be
treated as all other alimns within their class.
It will accerd the Cccupation Forees and later
the Japenese Government a lever in dealing with
effestive only as lobby organizatrous, without
political capital and vith recourse only to their
Korean diplomat:s missions, Those Koreans accept-
ing Japanese citizenship veuld thereby relinquish
any claim to spetial treatment as "liberated"
persons and look to the lav for equal protection
of their rights The third class of Koreans,
the Japanese nationals mould be treated similarly
to the Jepanese sicizens. but wathont possessing
political rights unless they teck active steps
to acpuire them.
S. Te ultimavely sarry cut the program out
lined horein. several aarfons sould be reguired:
(a) The Koroan syvernment. through its
Mission in Jepan. shoula be irfermed that it may
register Kereaus ar its nationals.
(1) Any Koreans so registered would
be required to rorennce their Japanese
mationalaty. since w puisitlon of Korean
nationallty would be fneonsistent with e
tention of their Jepaneae stetus.
(2) Sneh vgistered Koreans would
theroupon re treated and censidered as aliens
in Japan.
(b) The Jap nese Govermment should be
induced to accerd all Jap nese nationals who so
desire. complete citizenship.
(1) Sinee Koreans in Japan are
Japanese nati onals and the Japanese Consti-
tutien requires equslity of treatment for
all Jepanese nationals. it is not believed
CONFIDENTIAL
that any

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
that amy difrioulty wound be.
convincing the Japanese authori
such necessary astion:
(2) The acquisition of tuch
of citizenship should be on a voluntang
but with ever-present opportunity fos seguit
it.
(c) This plan of election d status she
be based on choice and without compulsion. Any att
dant publicity on the subject should be coupled with
the fact that the program is voluntary, does not requis
action on the part of the Koreans in Japan, will not
affect their present status, and is aimed at assisting
Koreans in defining their legal status and consequent
rights and obligations.
6. With these comments in mind, Legal Section
therefore concurs in Diplomatic Section's proposed reply
to the Korean Ambassador, with appropriate modification
of language in the second paragraph of page 3 of said
reply. However, this proposed action should be considered
as the initial step toward the over-all plan. It is
suggested that if Legal Section's comments are agree-
able, the action proposed by Diplomatic Section be sub-
mitted to the Chief of Staff for approval, as the first
step in the program, and also to request approval for
the general plan, which will be implemented by subsequent
specific proposed actions.
Incl
n/c
Copies to
G-1
G-2
GS
- -C. R. LIGGIT,
Acting Chief
CONEIDEUMTAL

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
File No: S-350/3C1 Subject: Status of Koreens
in Japan
Noto
From: DS
To: C/S
Date: 20 Jume 19
No.
3
1. Pursuant to instructions from the Chie
of Staff, DS has re-examined the question of the
status of Koreans in Japan and forwards herewith
a staff study (Incl 3) on the problem.
2. The following is a summary of the con-
clusions and recommendations of the inclosed studys
a. Persons of Korean origin who have continu
ously resided 1n Japen since 2 September 1945 ratain
Japanese na tionallty. Their ultimate nationality
is indeterminate. They retain the right to reside
in Japan but are subject to Japanese law and should
be treated as Japenese. Because their ultimate
nationality is indeterminate and because their
allegiance is presumably divided between Japan
and Korea, SCaP has no interest in causing the
Japenese Government to extend to them the right
to vote or to hold public office in Japan.
b. It is within the power of the Korean
Government to extend recognition as Korean nationals
to persons of Korean origin who have continuously
resided 1n Japan since ? September 1945. SCAP
should not, as a matter of principle, object to
registration by the Korean Mission of Koreans in
Japan as Korean nationals and the Mission's issu-
ing to them Certificates of Korean Nationality.
C. Koreans who possess these certificates
and who have also relinquished Japanese nationality,
in accordance with procedures to be established
by the Japenese Government, are entitled to the
status and treatment of foreign nationals. It
is desirable that Koreans whose Korean nationality.
1s recognized by the Korean Government relinquish
Japanese nationality in order to avoid problems
of dual nationality and to ensure that a definitive
election of nationality is mede. Koreans who
acquire Certificates of Korean Natienality but
who have not effectively relinquished Japanese
nationality will not aoguire the status of fer

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
nationals, thus enabling the J
laws in regard to relinquishment of
d. No change is necessary in pres
procedure for repatriation of Koreans
tation to Korea of illegal entrants.
e. Koreans now in Japan who have establis
residence in Japan since 2 September 1945 other
than by SCAP permissicr. do not possess Japanese
ra tionality, have no right to reside in Japan
and should be deported.
f. A draft note incorporating sCAP viows
in regard to the status of Koreans (particularly
the substance of paragraphs b and c above) shopld
be sent to the Korean Diplomatic Mission.
3. After the inclosed staff study had been
forwerded to concerned sections for comment, a
note dated 3 May 49 was received frcm the Koreem
Diplomatic Mission stating the Mission's view
that all Koreans in Japan should be considered
as Korean nationals and treated as foroign nm-
tionals. This note, which is attached as Inol
4, was also forwarded to those sections whfch
had received the staff study. A staff conference
on the general problem of the status of Koreans
was held; attached as Inc1 5 1s a copy of a
memorandum summarizing the views expressed at
this conference.
4. The conce ned sections of General Head-
quarters either concurred or interposed no objec-
tion to the proposals made by the inclosed staff
study.
a. G-1 concurred in principle, and recom-
mended that Koreans who desire to acquire full
Japanese citizenship be permitted in due course
to do so and also that the Departments of State
and Army be informed of SCAP's action (Incl 6).
b. G-2 concurred and emphasized that it is
desireble for the Mission to screen carefully
applicants for Korean nationality and to issuo
some form of identification to those registered
as Korean nationals (Incl 7).
c. Government Section stated that it had
certain reservations as to the advisability of
the proposed action but would interpose. no ob-
jection (Inc1 8).
d. Logal

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
d. Legal Section concurred after
ing slight modifications in the propose
to the Korean Ambassador and after prosent
an analysis of the problem and a proposed ep
ment. Ls analyzed the problem as one reguiring.
two alternative courses of action by sCaP:
continued encouragement of repatriation, on the
Koreans who desire to acquire full Japanese
citizenship. In this way, it is believed that
the number of Koreans in Japen might eventually
be reduced to those who have acquired exolu-
sively Korean nationality and those who desire
to be considered Japanese citizens. To earry
out this program the Korean Government should
be permitted to register Koreans as Korean
nationals with the result thet these Koreans
would become aliens in Japan and on the other
hand the Japanese Government should be induoed
to accord complete citizenship to Koreans desir-
ing it. This program should be entirely
voluntary (Inci 9).
6. ESS/FIE (Mr. Gregory) statec that it
did not desire to comment on the staff study.
5. Appended as Incl 1 is the proposed note
to the Korean Ambassador outlining SC&Pis vlews
in regard to the status and treatment of Koroans
in Japan and indicating that SCaP will not object
to registration by the Korean Government of
Koreans in Japan. Incl 1 is based on TAB E,
appended to the inclosed staff study, and incor-
porates slight changes either necessitated by
receipt of the Korean note appended as Incl
4 or recommended by Legal Section.
6. Appended as Incl 2 is a draft radio
to the Departments of State and Army informing
them that SCAP is sending to the Korean Missfon.
a communication of the nature described in
paragraph 5 above.
7. DS concurs in principle in the proposals
made by 18, as outlined in paragraph 4 above and
in Incl 5, for alleviation and possible selution
of the nationality problem of Koreans in Jepan.
The inclosed study embodies the first of the
steps recommended by LS, namely, that the Korean
Government register Koreans in Japan es Korean
nationals. D8 believes that the secend stap
recommended by Ls is a logicel and neceesery o
and therefore agrees that the desirability ef
who comply with reasonable standards, 
fu11 J

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
554, August 15, 1949.
4-
CONFIDENTIAL
full Japanese citizenship should be pointed out
to the Japanese Government. This step should,
as -1 suggests, be taken after the Korean Govern-
meni  begun registration of Koreans in Japan.
In effect LS proposes an optlon whereby the Korean
minority in Japan is enabled to choose voluntarily
between Korean nationality and Japanese national-
ity with no compulsion to elect either but with
distinct benefits to be gained from election. DS
believes that the approach recommended by LS is
particularly desirable since it contemplates
solution of a problem that normally would be
settled at a peace conference and since it employs
a method frequently incorporated in peace treaty
provisions for solution of problems involving
minorities affected by territorial transfers.
8. DS recommends that C/S approve the pro-
posed note to the Korean Ambassador (Incl 1)
3
and the draft radio to the Departments of State
and Army (Incl 2); and that C/S authorize DS
to take necessary action, subject to appropriate
consultation and staff action, in regard to the
followings
a. consultation with the Korean Mission
concerning registration by the Korean Mission
of Koreans in Japan as Korean nationals;
b. consultation with appropriate Japanese
authorities concerning procedures under which
Koreans who are documented as Korean nationals
relinquish Japanese nationality; and
c. consultation with appropriate Japanese
authcrities concerning re quirements and proce-
dures under which Koreans who desire to acquire
full Japanese citizenship and who meet standards
established by the Japanese Government may be
enabled to do sc.
9. DS requests return of the attached file
after consideration by C/S.
Incls: 1.
Proposed note to Korean Ambassador;
2。
Draft radio to Depts of State and Army;
3。
Staff Study with tabbed attachments
4。
Note from Korean Mission of 3 May 1949;
5。
Memo of conference;
6。
Checkmote from G-1;
7。
Checknote from G-2:
8.
Checknote from GS:
9。
Checknote from LS.
Copies to: G-1, G-2, GS, LS, CIE, ESS/FIB
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
'Enclosure No. 2 to
-5-
Tokyo's Despatch No.
554, August 15, 1949.
COPY
(Incl 1)
DRAFT NOTE TO KOREAN AMBASSADOR
Diplomatic Section
Excellency:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
Your Excellency's two notes of April 7 and May 3, 1949,
the first addressed to General MacArthur, informing
this Headquarters regarding the attitude of the
Republic of Korea with respect to the repatriation of
Korean nationals from Japan, and the second.addressed
to Diplomatic Section with regard to the legal status
of Koreans in Japan.
Your Excellency is aware that since the surrender
of Japan it has been the policy of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers to faclitate in every way the
repatriation from Japan, as liberated people, of all
persons of Korean origin who choose repatriation. That
policy continues at the present time. It continues
to be the belief of the Supreme Commander that the
best proppect for alleviation of the difficult problems
which must-permanently face Korea and Japan in their
mutual foreign relations is contained in further
repatriation.
This Headquarters has duly noted the readiness
of Your Excellency's Government to facilitate the 
return to Korea of Koreans in Japan who are guilty
of agitation, pernicious propaganda, violation or la..s,
or disturbance of the peace. The soundness and wisdom
of this policy are indubitable, and this Headquarters
will not fail to assist in its prosecution by all
practicable means.
It is believed that, in connection with repatriation
and the nationality status in Japan of unrepatriated
Koreans, Your Excellency may find interest in the follow-
ing expression of the views of this Headquarters on the
subject.
Most of the persons of Korean origin now in Japan
have resided in this country continuously since Japan's
surrender to the Allied Powers on September 2, 1945, and
have hitherto been considered for purposes of treatment
as retaining Japanese nationality. They should be
encouraged to avail themselves of the possibility of
being repatriated to Korea at the earliest practicable
time. Those who fail to do so will continue to be con-
sidered for purposes of treatment as retaining Japanese
nationality unless they are registered as Korean
nationals by the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan,
have in their possession appropriate certificates attest-
ing such registration and have also been recognized
by the competent Japanese authorities as having
relinquished

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
554, August 15, 1949。
-6
relinquished Japanese nationality. Persons so regis-
tered as Korean nationals and so released from the
obligations of Japanese nationality will be accorded
treatment as non-Japanese, incurring at the same time
the obligations of foreign nationals in their business
and other activities.
Persons of Korean origin who are illegally resident
in Japan or whe are found by the competent authorities
to be engaged in illegal activities in Japan are liable
to deportation to Korea.
In as much as it is to the interest of all parties
concerned that only those Koreans who have legitimate
and reasonable grounds for maintaining continued residence
in Japan should at present be entitled to treatment as
non Japanese, and since solution of problems relating
to Koreans in Japan may be postponed for a considerable
period of time. it is hoped that the Korean Government
and its Diplomatic Mission in Japan will recognize the
desirability of maintaining, in any registration pro-
cesses which may be established, suitable standards and
criteria to ensure the issuance of Certificates of
Korean Naticnality for continued residence in Japan to
only those Koreans who have legitimate and reasonable
grounds for continuing their residence in this country.
Your Excellency may wish to communicate the fore-
going views to the Government of the Republic of Korea.
Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my
high consideration.
For the Supreme Commander:
Tokyo, June
1949。

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
-7
554, August 15, 1949.
COPY
(Inc1 2)
DRAFT RADIO
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
-CONFIDENTIAL
DS:CKH:RBF:hh
FROM:
SCAP
TO:
DEPT OF STATE..ROUTINE
INFO:
DEPT OF ARMY.ROUTINE
INFO8
AMEMBSEOULROUTINE
Subject is status and treatment of Koreans in
Japan.
SaP poliey toward Koreans has been to treat them
as retaining Japanese nationality until such time as
duly established Korean Government accorded them
recognition as Korean nationals. Korean Government has
been duly established and through its Tokyo Mission
has indicated desire to register Koreans in Japan as
Korean nationals.
Reply now being sent Korean Ambassador states that
repatriation offers best prospect for solution of
Korean minority problem and that Koreans who do not
return to Korea will continue to be considered for
purposes of treatment as retaining Japanese nationality
unless they are registered as Korean nationals by
Korean Diplomatic Mission, have in the ir possession
certificates attesting such registration, and have also
been recognized by the competent Japanese authorities
as having relinquished Japanese natienality. Persons so
registered as Korean nationals and so released from the
obllgations of Japanese nationality will be accorded
treatment as non-Japanese, incurring at same time obli-
gations of foreign nationals in their business and other
activities." Reply also expresses hope that Korean
Government will establish "suitable standards and
criteria to ensure issuance of certificates....to only
those Koreans who have legitimate and reasonable grounds
for continuing their residence" in Japan. No change
planned at present in existing procedure for repatriation
and deportation of Koreans. No publicity of this reply
contemplated. at least for present.
Believed that such registration by Korean Government
of portion of Korean community in Japan will enhance
prestige of Korean Government and facilitate SCAP and
Japanese efforts to deal with Korean minority.
HUSTON
OFFICIAL:
CONFIDENTAL
APPROVED:
R.M.LEVY
CLOYCE K. HUSTON
Colonel, AGD
Acting Chief
&djutant General
Diplomatic Section

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
GENERAL HBADQUART
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
F11e No: 8-350/301
Subject: Status of Koreens: n
Japan
Note
From: DCS, SCAP
To: GS
Date: 6 July 1949
No.
2
In Checknote 2, of 16 June 1949, G8 stated
it had certain reservations with respect to the
proposed action. It is desired that these
reservations be stated.
9 Incls: n's
A. P. F.
From: GS
To: DCS, SCAP Date: 7 July 1949
3
1. Government Section doubts the efficacy
of the sclution to the Korean problem suggested
in Diplomatic Section's comprehensive'reviow,
on the grounds that:
a. It is irresponsive to the memorandum
of the Korean Ambassador of 3 May 1949 which
proceeds from the premises that
1. "In accordance with the Interna-
m tional Law, the Korean people as a whole
had mver acquired Jap nese ationality, but
have retained their own throughout the
occupation (Jepanese) period."
2.
ghout the thirty-five years
of Japanese uc:pation of Korea, the nntiom-
ality law of Japan had never been appll-d or
enforced upon the people of Korea. There-
fore, Korean nationals had never acquired
Japanese nationality."
3. Apart from this, "mith the estab-
lishment of the government of the Republio
of Korea on August 15, 1948 the assumption
of their original nationality by the Korean
residents in Japan is automatic and declara-
tory."

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch
-9-
No. 554, August 15,
1949。
CONFIDENTIAL
4. "A large majority of the Korear resi-
dents in Japan had migrated into Japar under
either open compulsion or subtle press ure
created by the Japanese authorities. There-
fore, it is erroneous to believe that the
Korean residents in Japan are in Japan upon
their own free will. Conseguently the
suggestion of giving Korewwsidents an
onlion of nationality is unacceutable."
5. "It is hoth appropriate and imperative
that the Korean residents in Japan be accorded
the status of Allied nationals in accordance
with the fundamental principle of International
Law and justice."
6. As recognized by President Syngman
Rhee "the question of general repatriation
of Korean nationals may properly be con-
sidered in concordance with other outstand-
ing questions to be settled through the
Korear-Japanese provisions of the Peace
Treaty.
b. Despite the foregeing conelusions of the
Korean Ambessador, the propcsed action would attempt to
draw a line of legal dis tinction in nationality between
Koreans fermally registered as Korean nationals and those
not so registered. and impose a heavy adpitional burden
both upon the Oecupation and the Japanese Government in
the administration of affairs pertaining to resident
Koreans.
1. It would reguire that Occupation courts
carry the additional burden of inestimable
proportions involved in the assumption of
criminal jurisdiction over registered resid
Koreans or risk affronting the Republic of
Korea. which holds thet all Korean residents
are Allied nationals, by refusing to accord
them even the privileges of United Nations
nationals.
2. It would impose upon the Japanese
Government the heavy administrative burden,
if not an impossible one in present circum-
stances, of dif ferentiating among resident
Koreans in foreign investment, foreign
exchange, licensing and other phases of
business activity subject to government con-
trol.s.
3. It would
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
3. It would provide a quasi
for uncontrolled black marikstim
by resident Koreans in foreign
and commodities.
4. With the consequent removal ef
Koreans, the Japanese ma tional would he
placed at a distinct and resentful dised
tage over the registered Korean similaxty
integrated in Japanese business.
5. The drawing of a legal distinotion
by SCAP between the nationality of regis-
tered resident Koreans and those unregistered
would not only be in conflict with the
Korean position as forcefully stated by the
Ambassador, but it would tend to commit the
Allied Powers in the matter of Japanese
nationality of a minority group without
support in Japanese law, the censent of the
Japanese Government, or any affirmative
action by the unregistered Koreans them-
selves.
c. Far from solving the present troublesome morean
problem in Japan by arbitrarily drawing such a logal
distinction between resident Koreans, the problem might
possibly be rendered much more a:  nd troublesome
through the resulting division within the Korean ranks.
d. Although the communication of the Korean
Ambassador recounts his official views as to the logal
status of Koreans resident in Japan and seeks SCAP
concurrence therewith, by his reference to settlement of
the nationality of the people of Alsace-Lorraine at the
end of World War I in the Allied Peace Treaty with
Germany as "a historical precedent", the Ambassador clearly
recognizes that the problem here is one properly to be
reserved for consideration at the Japanese Peace Confer-
ence. So does President Syngman Rhee in his quoted
Instructions to the Ambassador when he says "the ques-
tion of general repatriation of Korean nationals may
properly be considered in concordance with other out-
standing questions to be settled through the Korean-
Japenese provisions of the Peace Treaty."
2. In view of the foregoing it appears to this Section
that the action proposed is an attempt at partial solu-
tion (satisfactory to no one) of a problem which should
properly await settlement at the Peace Conference. There
appears to be no objection to any voluntary registration
process which the Korean Ambassador wishes to undertake
with respect to local Korean resident: as 1t is
inberen$ly

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
-11
554, August 15, 1949.
inherently a funetion of his office, as the represen-
tative of the Korean Republic in Japan, to do what he
ca. to safeguard their interests. But the effort by
SCAP to draw a legal line of distinction between
those so registering and those not would be of doubt-
ful validity, would serve no useful purpose, and might
very well result in most
onsequences.
3. Without regarding itself sufficiently informed
on the issues involved to register formal objection
to the procedure recommended. it has nevertheless been
the view of Goverrment Seeti on that reply to the
communleation from the Korean Ambassedor should be
limited to a polite acknowledgment vith assuranees
that his views are most weleome nd vill be given
thoughtful consideration. but that, as President Rhee
and he both recognize, the basic questions involved
will have to await the consideration of the Allied Powers
at the Peace Conference.
9 Incls. r
C. W.
4.0
Fiom: DCS. SCAP
To: DS
Date: 11 July 1949
For comment with reference to Checknote 3.
9 Incls: n/e
A、P.F.
5。
File No. S-350/301
Subgects Status of Koreans in Japan
DS : CKH: RBF: hh
Mr Finn 26-5528
From: DS
To: DCS. SCAP Date: 15 July 1949
lo DS has carefully considered the comments of
GS (check note no. 3) but does not beiieve that the
recommendations made in check note no. I and in the
inclosed staff study (Incl 3) should be changed.
2. DS offers the following specifie comments on
GS" views
a. DS? staff study, pages 3 and 4, discusses in detail
the legal points at issue including those made by the
Korean Ambassador in his memorandum of 3 May 1949. The
position taken in the study is based on thorough examina-
tion and consultation in regard to the legal points
involved. Because DS believes that the legal conelusions
it has reached are tenable and that it would be fruitless
to reargue the entire tase with the Korean Ambassador,
DS does not, in the draft note to the Korean Ambassador
(Inel 1), respond point by point to the issues raised
by the Ambassador but merely states a general conclusion
as to nationality.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.97)
Bclusule NUo  U
Tokyo's Despatch No.
-12-
554, August 15, 1949。
CONETDENTIAL
as to nationality.
b. The practical objections raised by GS,
although they are in some instances matters of judgment
susceptible to considerable difference of opinion, also
seem to DS to lack substantial merit:
(1) Occupation courts will not be called
upon, if DS: recommendations are approved, to assume
crimina jurisdiction over any Koreans. Occupation
courts  eal with United Nations nationals in Japan pur-
suant to an FEc poliey decision: the Government of the
Repuhl:: of Korea has not been admitted to the Urited
Natic ' will almost certainly not be atte 
the forcseeable future.
(2) The proposals recom ended by DS would
of course involve some administretive burden on the
Japanese Government in differentiating between regis-
tered and unregistered Koreans. The Japanese Government
has already made a similar distinction part of its Cabinet
Order implementing the foreign investment program and
has already assumed this administrstive burden in the
case of Formosan-Chinese. Since this procedure has
already been established and since DS ticipates that
the number of registered Koreans will, initially at
least, be small and that these Koreans will be clearly
identifiable. it is not probable that the administrative
burden on the Japanese Government vould be too great.
C) DS dess not understand how black mar
keting by Koreale would acquire legality simply because
a Korean was registered with the Korean Mission. DS
believes that the activities of resist ed Koreans can
be better controlled. if mecessary because they would
be clearly identified.
(4) In regard to travel, it would seem
clear thet Koreans tho are regisuered and are not
Japanese should be enlitled to treatment different in
certain respects from that accorded Jup nese. as are
registered Formosan-Chinese end other aliens in Japan.
(5) DS does not propose that the Allied
Powers or the Japanese Government be committed in regard
to the nationality of unregistered Koreans. Their
ultimate nationality vill remain indeterminate (page 7
of staff study), not Jep nese and not Korean, pending
a final determination, presumably at a pease conference.
DS does propose (paragraph 8: of c/n no, 1) that Koreans
who wish to become Japanese and who comply with reqire-
ments laid down by the Japenese should be entitled to
acquire Japanese citizenship (see IS, views in Incl 9).
3. GS appears
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
3. GS appears to suggest (1) thet
objection to any voluntary registratien pre
the Korer 1 Ambassador wishes to undertake
the basic questions involved should await
tion of the Allied Powers at the peace confer
should take no action with respect to the prob
the nationality of Koreans in Japan. In regard
it is argued throughout the inclosed staff study
Koreans should not be allowed to acquire Korean me
ality as a result of registration in addition te th
Japanese nationality hich most of them now. posses
they would then have "dual nationality" and would
on one or ther other of their nationalities as the
they could profit thereby, and this would make it
sible for their interests as Koreans to be effecti
protected by the Korean Ambassador, since they are ale
Japanese nationals in the absence of relinquishment 
that nationality. In other words registration of
Koreans b: the Korean Mission wi thout the additional
steps DS proposes would be meaningless and would in
fact be a source of added friction between the Korean
Government and the Japanese Government. In regard to
(2), the time of a peace treaty for Japan is not pre-
sently foreseeable and DS strongly recommends that pro-
gressive steps toward solution of this problem be taken
under SCAP guidance rather than to allow the situatiom
to deteriorate over an indefinite period.
4. DS does not believe that adoption of its pre
posals affords a final solution of the problem in the
immediate future.. Nor does DS believe that its pre-
posals would be entirely satisfactory to all parties in
interest. DS is however of the opinion thct its pre-
posals, as concurred in by other Sections, are based on
sound analysis of the points involved, including all
those raised by GS, and meet the practical requirements
of the situation. In this connection DS refers te the
comments of IS (Incl 9) as a thorough exposition of the
problem and a well-reasoned proposal for solution.
5. DS accordingly resubmits the attached file,
recemmends approval by C/S of the proposals made in
check note 1, ir Incl 1, and Incl 2, and requests retura
of this file to DS for necessary action.
Incls: 9 incls: n/c
Cepies to: GS, IS
.C.K.H.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch
No. 554, August 15, 1949
from Office of United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, subject: "Status of
Koreans in Japan".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
Subject: Status of Koreans in Japan
Note
From: D C/S SCAF To: DS
Date: 3 August 1949
No.
1. This study has received the careful
consideration of the Commander in Chief and the
Chief of Staff It is considered that this is
not a propitious time to undertake this project
and that action in connection with this problem
should be deferred for an indefinite period.
2 The Chief of Staff desires to express
his appreciaticn for the comprehensive study and
excellent presentation of the subjest.
A.P.F.
ce:
GS
G1
G-2
LS
CI & E
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
BnA
ACTION
is assigned to
JAPANESE AMERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON OFFICE
TEL: FRANKLIN SS45
GOO FIFTH STREET. N. E.
MIKE MASAOKA.
WASHINGTON 2. D. C.
November 2, 1949
k
EUR
The Honorable Dean Acheson
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.4016/1
Enclosed are copies of letters which we have this date
forwarded to the Australian government through its Prime
Minister and its Ambassedor to the United States.
I feel the letters are self-explanatory.
Because of the policy described, Amcrican citizens are
being subjected officially to another nation's program of
discrimination.
We wish to take this opportunity to urge you to use
-249
your good offices in urging Australia to rectify this
situation, a task we are sure can be accomplished if this
nation will take official cognizance of the irritation and
humiliation the policy has enforced upon American citizens.
Sincerely,
CS/M
Phite Masaota
Mike Masaoka
National Legislative Director
mm:lyy
att: cal
encl.
FILED
ρ.c.
1944
219307
"EQUAL RIGHTS, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FDR ALL"

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.94)
JAPANESE AMERICAN CITIZENS LEAGUE
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION COMMITTEE
WASLUNGTON OFFICE
BOO - 5TH STREET, N. E.
WASHINGTON 2. D.C.
Nevenber 2, 1949
His Exselleney
Mr. Norman Jehn Oswald Haicin
Ambessedor of Australia
Washingtom, D. C.
Excellenoy:
During the past soveral months, a situation created by the Amsteelfem
"white only" polioy in Japan has repeatedly been ealled to r temtdme
affects Amerioan citizens who are members of this league, them, m the m
of simple justice and nran dignity, we are foroed to ast.
The policies of the British Commomwealth Cooupaties Pesees im Jageme
American citimens and soldier Ocoupation personnel, to Ameriemms ef g
aneestry serving in the sane capacity.
Specifically, in Hiroshine, Anerican ressareh workers are faeed with
racial diserimination officially precticed by Australies eesupatéem fesees.
Forty Amerioan scientists and technicians of Japenese emeestey stedem
hotels and other reoreational feeilities, although these are evaflable to
Americen Caucesian sclentiste. Yet all are doing reeeareh wesk es the esess
of the atomio bombings which, eventually, will be utilised by Australle, te.
We have been advised of other specifie instanees in whieh Ameriees p
nel of Japanese ancestry have been denied adaissien to Australiem epesated
institutions in Japan, although Caueasian Amerieans are welosmed.
We feel this is a rather harmh and imbuman poliey for a matiem much es
Australia to pursie.
Hany of those seme Amerleen Nisei, now so surtly demled fasilities 
Australia, served with the Allied Trenalators and Daterpreter Sesviee estie
COPY

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.91)
2
that "the intelligenee mupplied (by ATIs) frem eeeey prise
was of great value to operations in this (the Soutmeest Pmetrse a
as all other theaters of war."
of American lives and ow any billions of dollars f temme  
to the intelligence spliod by their effarts, it is impessthle t
American units, your overnnent has emerged successfully from the e
that those who served ho in time of need, now are the objeets  
and disorimination.
Oocupation foroes in Japan.
We also feel that unless this situation is reotified, it sheald b te
before the Commission on Hunan Rights in the Uaited Nations.
Respectfully yours,
Mike Masneke
National Legisletive Disester
:15y
COPY

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.94)
894.4016/11-249
DEC11949
My dear Mr. Manaoka:
dated November 2, 1949 addressed to the Seoret
of State with whioh you enolosed copies of lesters
whioh your organization has sent to the Prime
Minister of Australia and to the Australiam Ambes
sedor to the United States protesting poliaiem fol-
lowed by the British Commomwealth Oooupation Forees
in Japan respeoting eccess to recreatiomal fesili-
ties by Americens or Japanese enoestry.
894.4016/11-249
Copies of your letter end its enclosures have
been forwarded to the appropriate United States mu-
thorities in Japan. Your courtesy in supplying
copies or your communications on this subjeot to the
Department is appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of States 
S
William P. Snow
Officer in Charge, Dominion Affairs
Mr. Mike Masaoka,
A truo copy of
National Legislative Direotor,
the algned arig-
Japanese Ameriean Citizens League,
inal
Anti-Disorimination Committee,
300 Fifth Street, N..
dops.
Washington 2, D.0.
CS/H
mq.
MURSC
UR:BNA:JHShullaw:jz
PL
11-25-49
NOV 30 1949

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: BNA - Mr= Shullaw
DATE: November 16, 1949
FROM : NA - Mr. Green wG
SUBJECT:
DEC 11949
I couldn't agree more with Masaoka's letter but do
not consider this a matter for Department representations
to Australia. It is suggested that appropriate action
might be the forwarding of copies of Masaoka's letter
to the Acting Political Adviser, Supreme Commander Allied
Powers, Tokyo, with the suggestion that, at his disoretion,
he discuss the matter informally with Mr. Patriok Shaw
(or his successor who I understand is about to take over
the Australian Mission in Tokyo). It would seem to me
that sympathetio pressure in the right direction from
the Australian Mission in Tokyo would do more good in
moving this matter toward an equitable solution than a
heave from the Department which might throw it off the
tracks.
In replying to Masaoka it is suggested that you say
that the Department is pursuing the matter through
appropriate channels and sincerely trusts that an equit-
able solution may soon be forthcoming.
Fw
894
FE:NA:MGreen:clh

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
DEC 11949
RESTRICTED
267
To the
Acting United States Political
Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
894.4016/11-249
The Secretary of State encloses for the information
of the Acting Political Adviser a letter dated Novem-
ber 2, 1949 received by the Department from Mr. Mike
Masaoka, National Legislative Director of the Japanese
American Citizens League, Anti-Disorimination Com-
mittee, concerning certain alleged discrimination
against American researoh workers of Japanese anoes-
try stationed within the British Commonwealth Ooeu-
pation Force Zone.
It will be noted that the Japanese
American Citizens League has also sent a letter of pro-
test to the Australian Prime Minister.
A copy of the Department's reply to Mr. Masaoka
is enclosed with this instruction. It is suggested
that, in the disoretion of the Acting Political Ad-
viser, this complaint be disoussed with the Australian
Mission in Tokyo.
Enclosures:
Letter from Mr. Mike Masaoka,
Phine meneatu
2.
Letter to Mr. Mike Masaoka,
dated November 25, 1949.
A true popy of
894.4016/11-249
the signed orig-
RESTRICTED
Inul
NOV 3018
EUR:BNA:JHShullaw:jz
11-25-49
