894.20261 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics Including Gathering Of Information. Esp (File 1104)
ID: 894.20261-1104   Pages: 13   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20261-military-affairs-army-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
894.20261/2
2
Confidential File

DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE

SEE 811.113/381 3/7 FOR Memo.

FROM State Department (Green) DATED Jan. 31, 1934
TO Division of Western European Affairs NAME

REGARDING:
D.F. Giera. Statement of -, that he is
a secret agent of the Japanese Government.
Alleged employment by Giera of secret
agents in U.S.S.R.

med

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.93)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 1458

Moscow, March 14, 1936.

Subject: Trial of Spies Operating on the Territory of the Far Eastern Krai.

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.

Sir:

With reference to the Embassy's Despatch No. 1312, of January 30, 1936, concerning the recent espionage trial at Khabarovsk, I have the honor to submit herewith a few observations gleaned from the PACIFIC OCEAN STAR (TIKHOOKEANSKAYA ZVEZDA) during the months of January and February 1936.

A serial in six installments, constituting a running account of the trial, was published in the newspaper under reference by one L. Reshetov, commencing January 29, 1936. The correspondent lists the

861.00/11621
894.20261/3
F/FG
25 1936
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE
861.00/11621

For Distribution Check
Grade For
MIDDLETON
Khabarovsk
1936
4/24/36
894.20261/3
F/G
25 1936
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

the number of accused at 21 men, including 20 Koreans and one Russian emigre. Some of the accused were as young as 23 and others as old as 50. Apparently a number of them had been employed by the Harbin Cinema Company. Everyone of the prisoners was able to speak Russian, but some with pronounced Korean accents.

An interesting disclosure was made during the trial, namely, that none of the accused were definitely citizens of a particular country. Two or three when captured within Soviet territory were in possession of false Soviet passports, which were out and out forgeries. Apparently the false passports were made in both the Soviet Union and in "Manchukuo." According to the examining magistrate the Koreans had never been able to obtain Japanese passports, even before the occupation of "Manchukuo" by the Kwantung Army.

The activities of the central directing agency, which was reported by the court to be located on "Manchukuoan" territory, had been the smuggling across the frontier of men singly and in groups. The spy center furnished its agents with arms, revolutionary literature, and various other accouterments necessary in espionage work.

Eloquent of the success of Japanese espionage methods in the Soviet Far East was the disclosure that one of the leading figures in the arrested group was a member of the Kemsomol who had been active for a long time at Khabarovsk. According to his own admission he had made five separate entries into Soviet territory in

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

in as many years, without detection. According to the testimony of the accused the principal task of the group had been to obtain information concerning the exact location of airdromes and "sugar factories," which seems to be a new designation for munitions factories. Evidently the group was also ordered to take snapshots of roads, railroads, junctions, etc. Small high-grade cameras were found in the possession of some of the prisoners.

According to Mr. Reshetov, the newspaper correspondent who reported the trial, only one man had the fortitude to abide by statements made during the preliminary investigation. Under the circumstances it might be safe to feel that this was a manifestation of real physical courage if one recalls the tradition of Soviet police officials who are charged with the work of "investigation." No effort is made to conceal the fact that considerable pressure had been put upon the prisoners to force confessions from them. As to the actual methods, of course, nothing is said.

A very significant admission is made in the series of articles to the effect that members of the group arrested had been able to find places for themselves in particular Soviet communities and had all managed to find work and employment of some kind. Some had even been able to obtain positions in important enterprises.

As a lever in obtaining information and particularly information of a dangerous nature, a number of the prisoners

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

prisoners had been engaged in smuggling and contraband operations. This seems to have been very successful, since Soviet tolerance of activities of this nature in the Far East is more noticeable than in European Russia.

It is no credit to the Soviet police that the men were finally brought to trial. The activities of the group were betrayed by one of its members who apparently was not satisfied with his share in the proceeds. The culprit, one George Semena, had served in the Red Army for several years, from which he had been discharged for reasons not stated. Semena's most recent activities had been the collection of the various types of gas masks used in the Far Eastern Red Army, which had been smuggled across the frontier from time to time.

The whole trial is pictured in the PACIFIC OCEAN STAR as a movie scenario, with Semena the principal villain. Some of the exploits sound unusually fantastic, but are painted in such a light that credit goes exclusively to the Soviet police for having uncovered all of the facts. In the same breath the disclosures are reported as having been obtained from admissions on the part of the prisoners themselves.

Significant quantities of opium were found on the arrested men. Two of them admitted addiction to the drug, while other maintained that the drug was used as contraband in effecting the purchase of military information. Two of the "hide-outs" where the conspirators

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

conspirators met from time to time were used as storehouses for contraband goods. These storehouses, so-called, were extremely important in the espionage operations, in that they furnished the basis for procuring necessary funds on short notice. Although very little information is given as to what the various kinds of contraband goods were involved, the implication is that the overwhelming percentage was drugs, in opium or its derivatives.

Under questioning it was reported that since 1927 the group had been engaged in a systematic smuggling of Russian military equipment into "Manchukuo." The principal equipment involved had been gas masks, chemical warfare equipment, and uniform equipment, with less emphasis on guns and ammunition. In article No. 5 of the series published on February 3, 1936, Reshetov reports that two or three of the men had been captured along the frontier by frontier guards. An intimation is given that not all were caught at the same time. From the descriptions given of the capture of some of the spies it is evident that a few of the frontier skirmishes must have been rather serious, with several people killed on both sides.

In summing up the case the prosecuting attorney at the trial made some very frank admissions as to the success of these espionage groups. The admissions relate as well to the inefficiency of the police in the interior as well as to the work of the frontier guards. The general impression, however, is that the work of the

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-

the frontier guards has been more effective, or at least more dramatic than that of the police.

Mr. Sakoh, Counselor of the Japanese Embassy at Moscow, has recently made a number of references to the Khabarovsk espionage trial. He declares that this is the first open trial in a long time and as usual is a big show. Mr. Sakoh admitted that he had received many reports of the arrest of Japanese and "Manchukuoan" spies, but that there were many more Soviet spies being interned in "Manchukuo" than Japanese agents in the Soviet Far East. Mr. Sakoh further stated that there had been all kinds of reports concerning star chamber and third-degree methods on both sides and many of these stories were probably true. He stated that it was not customary to deal gently with arrested spies in any country.

On March 9 the Moscow PRAVDA published a report from Chita under date of March 8 reporting the torture of Soviet citizens who had been arrested by "Manchukuoan" authorities. One Pirogov was reported as having been systematically tortured by having water and kerosene poured into his nose, by having his feet burned with hot irons, and pencils driven into his nostrils. The "Manchukuoan" police inspector who had been in charge of the interrogation of this Pirogov was reported as a White Guard emigre named Voronin. Pirogov apparently had been forced to sign evidence stating that he was carrying on espionage work for the Soviet Consulate General in Harbin. The PRAVDA reported the release of

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-

of Pirogov only after two prolonged hunger strikes and energetic protests by the Soviet Consulate General at Harbin. The source of the story concerning Pirogov is reported to be Drinski, Soviet Vice Consul in Harbin, who had fought the case for the Soviet Consulate General. Pirogov was finally released and delivered to the Soviet authorities at Manchuli Station.

Soviet official sources have not referred to the recent spy trial other than by noncommittal reply to questions. Although the Soviet press from time to time has mentioned the arrest of Soviet and Japanese- "Manchukuoan" citizens during frontier conflicts, very little, if any, mention has been made concerning the subsequent fortunes of such interned prisoners. Judging from most of the Soviet reports of the frontier conflicts, however, it is safe to assume that at least on the Soviet side the treatment of spies is very summary with small toleration of protest on the part of the countries of origin of the spies.

Respectfully yours,

William C. Bullitt

820.02
BBK/hla
Original and four copies to Department.
Two copies to Legation, Riga.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 15, 1939

Harbin's despatch no. 173 of June 15 reports, as evidence of the absurd extent of Japanese espionage and propaganda, that the Japanese "intelligence", piqued over the French Consul's action in reporting disparagingly concerning alleged Japanese victories at the Nomonhan front (as discovered by their censors in accordance with Consul's intention), made a childish and unsuccessful attempt to trick the Consul into unwittingly carrying Japanese propaganda into Russia on his return to France.

Very amusing if you have time for 2 pages!

894.20261/4
FE: CHASE: MHP

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 173
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1939 AUG 7 PM 4 08
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Harbin, Manchuria,
June 15, 1939.

CONFIDENTIAL.

SUBJECT: ILLUSTRATION OF JAPANESE ENDEAVORS TO
OBTAIN INFORMATION AND DISSEMINATE
PROPAGANDA.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE, WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to enclose a copy of my des-
patch No. 155, dated June 14, 1939, to the American
Embassy, Peiping, entitled "Illustration of Japanese
Endeavors to Obtain Information and Disseminate Prop-
aganda."

Respectfully yours,
George R. Merrell
American Consul

Enclosure:
Copy of despatch No. 155, June 14,
1939, to the Embassy, Peiping.

In quintuplicate.

800
GRM:JNO

894.20261/4
Filed
SEP 12 1939
F/FG
Carbon Copy
Received

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 155

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Consulate General,
Harbin, Manchuria,
June 14, 1939.

CONFIDENTIAL.

SUBJECT: ILLUSTRATION OF JAPANESE ENDEAVORS TO
OBTAIN INFORMATION AND DISSEMINATE
PROPAGANDA.

The Honorable
Nelson Trusler Johnson,
American Ambassador,
Peiping, China.

Sir:

I have the honor to give the following further illustration of the absurd lengths to which the Japanese authorities will go in endeavoring clandestinely to obtain and disseminate propaganda.

According to Monsieur Jules Leurquin, the French Consul, Mr. Chu Chi-min, clerk of the French Consulate, whose arrest and detention was the subject of my despatch No. 149 of May 24, 1939, has been ordered to appear at the gendarmerie headquarters every Wednesday. On his first or second visit questions were asked concerning Monsieur Leurquin's packing in preparation for leave of absence in France, accurate knowledge of which he could truthfully deny.

On Mr. Chu's last visit his inquisitors inquired

- what -

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

what Monsieur Leurquin was writing. When he said that he did not know, they said "oh yes, you do" and thereupon described in detail the content of an official despatch discrediting the alleged Japanese victories at Nomonhan, which Monsieur Leurquin informed me in confidence he had purposely sent through the open mail.

Mr. Chu was then ordered to present to his departing chief a farewell gift consisting of food delicacies for consumption on the trans-Siberian journey. The gendarmerie officials ingenuously explained that the provisions would be wrapped in Russian newspapers proclaiming the magnitude of the Japanese victories at Nomonhan to show the Russians aboard the train and the Siberian peasants along the railway the "truth" of the strength of Japan's military forces as Monsieur Leurquin unwrapped and scattered the newspapers along the way. Monsieur Leurquin told Mr. Shu that he would be glad to accept the present but facetiously requested him to inform the gendarmerie officials that when he crossed Siberia, which he has done many times, he only partook of fresh caviar, and of that in large quantities.

When Monsieur Leurquin departed this morning, Mr. Chu in fact presented the package he had been furnished by the gendarmerie. It was discovered to contain about fifty dollars worth of fruit, cheese, jam, et cetera, from the best shop in Harbin. Monsieur Leurquin took the provisions with him but before leaving Harbin discarded all the packing and wrapping papers which consisted of various editions of Harbin's

- ZARIA -

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -

ZRIA and VREMYA depicting Japanese victories.

Respectfully yours,

George R. Merrell
American Consul

In quintuplicate to Department by despatch No. 173, June 15, 1939.

Copy to Embassy, Chungking.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

800
GRM:JNO
