894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., July 10, 1948 - June 30, 1949 (File 1737), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1737-1   Pages: 668   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-29/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20July%2010%2C%201948%20-%20June%2030%2C%201949%201737-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTIO
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
80
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LA
FOR JAPAN
DRF
Tokyo, y 10, 1948
No. 431
File
21R
Syplit
CONFIDENTIAL
SWS
(For Department Use Only)
Subject:
: Comments of Japanese Leaders Upon the Current Political
Situation.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.00/7-1048
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copies of memoranda of conversation
1/
held on July 6, 1948 between an officer of this Mission and Mr. KATAYAMA
Tetsu, President of the Social Democratic Party and former Prime
2/
Minister, and on July 7, 1948 between the same officer and Mr. MATSU:OTO
Takizo, Chairnan of the Policy Committee of the People's Cooperative
Party nd former Parliamentary Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs in
the Katayama Cabinet, on the general subject of the current political
situation and the possible course of political events this coming fall.
These and other conversations with Japanese baders have further
confirmed the instability of the Ashida Cabinet which we have previously
reported, (see this Mission's despatch No. 263 of May 5, 1948). Both
Mr. Katayama and Mr. Matsumoto expect that during the coming fall the
present cabinet will either be forced to resign and a new one be formed
or the National Diet will heve to be dissolved. These men and also
Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, the Prime Minister and President of the Democretic
Party, (accorcing to Mr. Metsumoto who is closely asscciated with
Dr. Ashida despite effiliation with a different party), are inclined
at this time to prefer the latter course. The main reason for this
preference anpears to be th.t these men do not wish to see the Democratic
Liberal Party form a new cabinet until this new party obtains the mandate
of the people through a general election.
It is generally relt that an extraordinery session will be called
this fall to consider a supplementary budget in view of the united
front being presented by government labor unions for a wage inerease
and other demands. Between now and that time we believe there will
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
be consideroble political maneuvering, such as efforts directed at
the formation of & new center party on the part of both Mr.  IkI Takeo,
President of the People's Cooperative Party, and Dr. Ashida. It is
obvious that the Democratic Liberal Party will continue efforts to
strengthen
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 431
July 10, 1948:
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
itself by endeavoring to attract the Taiyokai faction of the
Democratic Party and some of the smaller parties, such as the Social
Renovationist Party (Shakai Kakushinto) which latter party has con-
sistently voted with the Democratic Liberals. It is clear thet all
parties will keep in mind the likelihood of a general election and
pursue the same tactics as lir. Katayama who is extending his speaking
tour to areas not covered recently.
The Department is already aware from prees reports of the disturbance
which has shaken the Social Democratic Party in consequence of the
resignation from the cabinet of Lr. NISHIO Suehiro, Deputy Prime Minister
and dynamic party leader, and the expulsion of members of the extreme
left wing element of the party. Ir. Nishio's resignation was precipitated
by his testimony before the Illegal Property Transaction Committee of the
House of Representatives that he had received and distributed ¥5oo,000
obtained from builoing contractors. ?r. Nishio did not report this sum
as party funds, because he claims the money to have been a  ift to
him personally in his cepacity as a member of the Social Democratic Party.
In connection with Ir. Nishio's resignation, an observstion of
Dr. KaaI Kazuo, Chief Editor of the Nippon Times an an astute commenta-
tor on Japanese affairs, is of interest. He is convinced that Mr. Katayama,
jespite his integrity and zeel, will be lost without the guiding genius
of Mr. Nishio. It is evident, however, thet Yr. Katayama feels that
Mr. Nishio will be cleared and continue his activities on behalf of
the Sociel Democratic Party. Mr. Katayame is also convinced thet the
party will be strengtnened by expulsion of the extreme left wing element.
e are of the opinion that the Japanese nation is better off by having
the influence of these men, who so closely resemble the Communists in
their actions, removed from the Social Jemocratic Party.
as worthy of speci l interest, the Department's attention is invited
3!
to the editorial "hither the Socielist Party?" which appeared in the
July 7, 1948 i sue of tne Nippon Times, conies of which are enclosed.
It is believed to be a concise analysis of the present predicament in
which the Social Democretic Party finds itself. e gree with the
comment in the editorial tha' the growth of lert wing influence will make
the Social Jemocratic Party unable to participate in the cabinet on the
same basis os it has uurins the session of the Diet just concluded. The
Social Democratic Perty, in our opinion, ives every appearance of
havina reeched a peek in its activitier. It is possible thet the party
can rebuild ite lf und emerce strenper than ever, but as Yr. Katayama
has emphasized, the Social Demoeratic Porty cannot be expected to achieve
its aims overniht.
In contr st te the weninr porer of the Sociel Democratic Party
and the Democratie Perty, we bave lone been o: the view that the Demoeratic
Liberul Party's star is risine in the political firmament. Indicative
of its enthusiasm is thhe stntement of Mr. SHlmEaRa Kijuro, former Prime
Yinister a nw uprere dviser to ne Demoeratic Liberal Party, to an
officer of this Mission tht he joined the new party with consicerable
seepticiem s to its puture, lut bas b en inereesinaly impressed by the
amount of unity una zeal b ine shown by ita members.
Er. YOS TDA
COPTDENTL.L

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's No. 431
July 10, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Er. YOSlIDA Shigeru, President of the Democratic Liberal Party
and also former Prime Minister, has a sumed a very confident attitude
in discussing the future of his party with officers of this Mission.
One poirt of speci:l interest was his recent remark that General
MacArthur assureo him that this Headquarters id not cupport any particu-
lar party. Ir. Yoshide went on to add, however, that the government
parties claim support of the Government Section of this Headquarters,
end intimated thit such support was the reason why the Liberal Party,
the predeceusor of the Deaoeratic Liberal Farty, was not allowed to form
the lest cabinet.
An inportunt point in the conversation with Ir. Matsumoto, to
which attention or the epart: ent is invited, is the comment concerning
Ir. lslI Wataru, ormer State Hinister und an outstanding member
of the Demoeratie Purty, who has recently beer. exempted from the pro-
visions of the purge circctive. ir. Yatsumoto said that while
Yr. Hurahachi is at present adoptiny en attitude of watchful waiting,
there is no vu stion but thet he will play en inereasingly importent
role in netional politics.
Respectfully yours,
LoBeonee.
H. J. Sebald
我
nclcsures:
1.
'emornndum o" conversation
dated July 6, 1940.
2.
eroranaum of conversation
dated July 7, 1248.
Nditoriul Prow Nippon Times
cated July 7, 1948 (rive cosies).
Ori Ial und ozeli to Separt ent
200
WLawrence, Jr. hp
COLTIDLITLAL

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 431
dated July 10, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Comments of
Japanese Leaders Upon the Current
Political Situation".
CONPIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
(COPY)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISTR
FOR JAPAN
July 6, 1948
MEMORANDUL: OF CONVERSATION
SUEJLCT: Comments of Mr. Katayame on the Current Political Situetion.
PARTICT PATS: r. KTAYA Tetsu, former Prime Minister and President
of the Social Democratic Party.
Mr. TYUCHI Harumi, Japanese Foreign Service Officer
ane Secretary to Lr. Katayama when he was Prime Minister.
(Mr. Takeuchi acted as interpreter)
Ir. W. Fenry Lawrence, Jr.
Lr. Ketayama stat d that at the cabinet meeting on July 6, 1948
Mr. NIsHIO Suehiro, Deputy Prime Minister in the ASHIDA cabinet presented
his resignation to r. Achide Hitoshi, the Prime Minister, on the advice
of Mr. Katayama. The latter went on to s, that Mr. Nishio would issue
a statement to the effect that he resigned in order to maintein unity
in the Sociel Cemoeratic Party. Mr. Katayame also said that Mr. Nishio
was anxious to be free from his cabinet dutier in crder to clear up the
question of his disros-1 of F50o, O00 receivea from buildin: contractors,
which has arisen during the he rines or the Tllevel Property Trensactions
Committee of the House of  epre sent tives  nd for which he was indicted
by the Attorney General on July 5, 194e. (It is noted that press reports
of the Nishio resignation mention th't r. Hishio claims the indictment
had nothin to co with his decision to resien). Mr. Katayare further
said that in his opinion Mr. Mishio voul be sccuitted unon pragentation
of the facts to the court.
Fr. Hatayeme deelared thet the Teft win, Poetion of the Social
Demoeretic Party, incluain- the extr left wine elevents, contend
that Fr. Sishio shoula not only psim rer he Jabinet, but Srom his
position on the porty'e Centr! xeeutir Jonmittae,  subject which was
to be discussed hy the comritt  or July , 1948. at the same meeting,
Mr. Katayana said that the guestion o? setion to be taken by the Social
Democratic Party ageinst ehe fifteen reculcitrant members o veted
against the 1948-49 bucget (ls in the House of Representatives and 3 in
the House or Couneillors) would also be considered. He added that there
were two points of view, one boing thet ell should be expelled, and the
other that only the six leaders chould be exnelled, the remaining ones
beine ceprived o' any positions they might hold on Diet Committees or
within the party. Ho thou ght that the firat view was thet of the majority
of the Party.
Nr. Katayuma indicated that he hed reached a decision thut the time
hes come to deal stremuoucly with the extrere left wing of his party.
le commented that their tecties are so closely allied to those of the
Communist
CONTIDNTLAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. .1 to
Tokyo's No. 431
July 10, 1948.
CONPILEITIAL
-2-
Communist Party that they have become more and more a detriment to the
Social Democratic Party. While Mr. Katayama admitted he regretted
the loss of votes entailed by expelling members from the party, he did
not think that the loss would affect the voting strength of the present
coalition since the govornment parties still have a margin of about
forty votes.
There a opeared no doubt in !r. Katayama's mind that the present
coulition will face a stormy session this fall when he believes an
extraorainary session of the Diet will have to be called in order to
devise a supplementery buaget. at that time the two "realistic"
left wing (r. Katayama's terminology) cabinet members, Mr. Kato Kanju,
Minister of Labor, and Mr. NOyIlo Mesaru, State Minister, will be
confronted by a labor orfensive including a demand that wages be
increased above the Y379l level upon which the present budget is based.
Mr. Katayame believes that the Democratic Party will agree only upon
 reletively small increase which these two ministers cannot accept
and that they will therefore resign. Another possible cause of their
resignation mey be an attempt at revision of labor legislation.
According to Yr. Katayame, both tho left wing faction and the
Jemocratic Liberel Party are advocating that the extraordinary session
be  1d in August, lut the remainder of the Sccial Demoer tic Party
and the other government parties prefer heving it called in September.
(Sinee this statenent wes made the Centrel Executive Committee of the
Social Democratic Party decided to request convocation of a special
session of the Diet Tor three or four days in July for the express
purpose of discussing the Government bill postponing interest payment
on war bonds which was shelves by the House of Couneillors towerd the
ena of the last session).
The feeling is growing, Mr. Katayame thinks, thet during the
September session either the present cabinet will be forced to resign
or the Diet will be dissolved. Mr. Katayame maintained that he has
felt up until now th't the hiatus ceused by dissolution of the Diet
would be too great in Japen's present circumstances, but thet he has
become more and more convineed thet dissolution is the preper course
to take should the political situaticn reach an impasse. He stated
thet he reelized that as a recult of a ceneral election, the Social
Democratic Party will no longer be as important a party in the Diet,
rut he is willing that this should happen, because he is inclined to
think that a general election may be in the best interests of Japan.
One important reacon anpeared to be the possibility that the next cabinet
might be formed by the new Democratic Liberal Party. He considers that
this party does not have a mandate from the peonle since it wes
ineu uroted after the lest veneral eleetion.
Mr. Katayama streused thet the Social Lemocretic Party after the
war attracted pany voters becruse it represented the interests of the
people. However, the people have exnected too much of the party, he
pointed out. Mr. Katayame urther said that the times are such thet
the wims of tne perty cani ot be achieved overnight, but only gradually.
He stated that unions are under the influence of extremists and
aggressive leaders tho ar- unwillin" to progress at a reasonable rate,
and thut the general pub ic ooes not realize the: the aims of the Social
Demoeratic Party can only be chieved graduelly.
Mr. Katayama
CONL ID ITIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 431
July 10, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Mr. Katayama stated that in his opinion the majority of Diet
members are now in favor of a dissolution of the Diet to be followed
by a general election. He said that he himself with this in mind
had already covered about two-thirds of Japan trying to consolidate
the Social Democratic Party and also to inform the general public that
the goals sought cannot be achieved overnight, but are attainable
gradually. He plans to continue his travels in view of the increasing
likelihood of Diet dissolution.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
CONTIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 431
dated July 10, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Comments of
Japanese Leaders Upon the Current
Political Situation".
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
(COPY)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
July 7, 1948.
MORALIDUN OF CONVERSATION
SUHJT: Comments of r. Matsumoto on the Current Political Situation.
PARTICIPATS:
Mr. MTSUiOTo Takizo, former Parliamentary Vice Minister
of Foreign Affeirs in the Katayama Cabinet and now
Chairman of the Policy Committee of the People's Coopera-
tive Party.
Mr. W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Mr. Yatsumoto stated that recently Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, the Prime
Minister, requested thet he inquire of r. YIKI Takeo, President of
the People's Cooperetive Party, whether the latter would be agreeable
to a merger with the Democratie Party. Er. Matsumoto thinks that
Dr. Ashida is seriously worried about the instability of the present
political situation and considers such a merger would have a stabilizing
influence upon the Democratic Party. Mr. Matsumoto pointed out that
the Taiyokai faction of the Democratic Farty (some 30 members) has
been flirting with the Democratic Liheral Party. He seid he is convinced
that Dr. ashida believes this f ction can be held within the party if
the Democratic Party were strengthened by a merger with the People's
Cooperutive Party.
Ir. Miki, eccording to Yr. Matsumoto, would not think of merging
with the Democratic Party as lone as the Taiyokai fuction is a part
of it. Mr. Matsumoto st ted that Nr. Miki, however, came out with a
statement on July 5, 1948 advocating the formation of a new center
party. On receiving news of this, Dr. Ashide indicated hearty endorse-
ment.
Mr. Hatsumoto seid that he expected an extreordinary session of
the Liet in September even though the Social Democrats are advocating
a special session for late July to consider the question of suspension
of interest on war bonds which was shelved at t e Liet Session just
completed. uring the September session, Mr. Matsumoto expects that
either the cabinet will have to resign or t he Diet be dissolved. Mean-
while, Dr. ashida is expected to put off the session as long as possible
and to make strenuous efforts to consolidate the strength of the Govern-
ment Parties as well as to cooperate in the formation of a new party.
Mr. Matsumoto appeared convineed that Dr. Ashida would prefer dissolution
of t he Liet to formetion of a new cabinet by the Democratic Liberal Party.
Mr. Matsumoto
CONT'TDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's No. 431
July 10, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Mr. Matsumoto stressed that Diet members sense the discontent of the
general public and, therefore, despite the risk of losing their seats
are becoming more and more in favor of a general election rather than
resignation of the present cabinet and formation of a new one.
Mr. Matsumoto stated that Mr. NISHIO Suehiro's position of Deputy
Prime Minister, from which he has just resigned following the revelation
before the Illegal Property Transaction Committee, of the receipt and
distribution of ¥5o0,0oo from building contractors, will not be filled.
Dr. Ashida, according to Mr. Matsumoto, expects that Mr. Nishio will be
cleared by the court. If this verdict transpires, Dr. Ashida plans to
have Mr. Nishio return to the cabinet in the same position he formerly
occupied.
Mr. Matsumoto feels thet Mr. NARAyASHI Wataru, a former State
Minister and member of the Democratic Party, who has returned to the
political scene after having been exempted from application of the
purge provisions, is biding his time. Mr. Narahashi does not wish to
become too closely identified with the present sctivities of the
Democratic Party, but prefers to remain in the background until he
considers the time opportune to accept a high position in the party
should Dr. Ashida resign or not be reelected as President at the next
election of party leaders or in a new center party should one be formed.
Mr. Matsumoto expects Mr. Narahashi will emerge gradually as one of the
leading forces in Japanese politics.
Henry Lawenee, Jr.
CONSILENTLAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 451
dated July 10, 1948 from the Office
of the Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Comments of
Japanese Leaders Upon the Current
Political Situation".
NIPPON TIMES:
June 7, 1948
WHL
Whither the Socialist
The sudden emergence of
cialist party. The revelations
Party?
the Socialist party as the lead-
in the Diet probe body that
ing political group in the
Mr. Nishio had connections
House of Representatives,
with building contractors and
Whither the Socialist party?
however, brought on a bitter
had received political contri-
Beset by a mass of mounting
struggle for power. To retain
butions from them thus came
problems, the Socialist party
a place in this intra-party bat-
as a godsend to his enemies.
is on the verge of expelling
tle, Mosaburo Suzuki and
The left-wingers immediately
a group of its extreme left
Kanju Kato, as leaders of the
took advantage of the Nishio
wingers and eliminating the
left wing, issued a joint state-
issue to bargain on the bud-
influence of the "strong man"
ment severing all ties with the
get question.
in its right wing.
unpopular Communists. The
The extreme left-wingers at
Paradoxically, however, the
feud in the Socialist party
this point took a strong stand,
current erisis facing the So-
then developed into a three-
declaring that they would not
cialists may be the turning
corner fight among Mr. Nishio,
compromise their position on
point for the establishment of
the left-wingers, and Rikizo
the budget at any cost. The
their party on sounder foun-
Hirano, a right-wing rival to
Socialist left wing, with the
dations. The loss of the ex-
Mr. Nishio. The purge of Mr
knowledge that Mr. Nishio
treme left-wingers will doubt-
Hirano cleared the decks for
was through as a political in-
lessly mean the alienation of
a two-way struggle for power
fluence at least for the time
a portion of the working class
between Mr. Nishio and the
being, then came to a parting
from the Socialist party. The
left wing.
of the ways. While the extre-
elimination of Deputy Prime
The left-wingers were aided
mists declared their intention
Minister Nishio will certainly
in this fight by the important
of acting against the Govern-
mean the loss of the party's
role played by Mr. Nishio as
ment-drafted budget, the mod-
most dynamic leader. But
the coordinating link between
erate left-wingers led by Mr
these losses may bring unity
the Democratic and the So-
Suzuki began working for .a
to a party which has admit-
cialist parties in the Cabinet
tie-up with the neutral group
tedly been split by a number
coalition. In the give-and-
headed by Mitsusuke Yone-
of vying factions.
take among the coalition part-
kubo to take over the party
If the Socialist party can
ners, the Socialists could not
leadership vacated by Mr
rebuild on the ruins left by
always take and that furnish-
Nishio.
the present intra-party earth-
ed ammunition to the left-
How this new shape of
quake, it may, in the long run,
wingers for their attacks upon
things in the Socialist party
emerge stronger than ever
Mr. Nishio. In the party's
before.
January convention, the left-
will fare remains to be seen.
But it is certain that Mr.
The movements to oust Mr.
wingers mustered enough
Nishio's influence cannot be
Nishio and the extreme left-
strength to win a signal vic-
erased so easily and his sup-
wingers came as no sudden
tory over the policies to be
porters will be far from satis-
development over investiga-
followed by the party. They
fied. With the growth of left-
tions of the Lower House
followed up this triumph by
wing influence, however, it is
Illegal Property Transactions
causing the downfall of the
certain that the Socialists will
Committee or the budget
Katayama Cabinet over a
not be able to participate in
issue. To be sure, they did
supplementary budget to pay
the Cabinet on the same basis
act as catalytic agents. But
higher wages to government
as at present.
the trouble in the Socialist
employes.
But whatever the fate of
party ean be traced back to
In the formation of the
the present administration, it
the days when socialism was
Ashida' Cabinet which follow-
is to be hoped that the So-
still in its infancy in Japan
ed, Mr. Nishio succeeded in
cialist party will emerge from
and the various socialist
breaking the unity of the left-
its current crisis upon a
groups were working at cross-
wing group somewhat by in-
sounder foundation as a true
purposes though their goal
viting Mr. Kato and Masaru
progressive party which will
was a common one. With the
Nomizo, left-wing leaders, into
truly speak for the masses of
formation of the present
the Cabinet. This maneuver
forgotten men.
Japan Social Democratic Party
however, did not make the
in May 1945, all socialist
left-wingers any too happy.
groups had evidently merged
for it left Mr. Nishio as the
into one happy family.
most powerful man in the So-

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADWISER
file
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, July 24, 1948.
No. 46€
CONFIDENTIAL
894.00/7-2
in
.44
Subject: Application of HAtoYaMA Ichiro Regarding Purgo.
894.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to forward herewith an epplication of
Mr. HATOYAMA Ichiro, dated March 17, 1947, addressed to Mr. YOSIDA
Shigeru who was then Prime Minister, urging reconsideration of
Mr. Hatoyama's case under SCAP Memorandum of May 3, 1946, SCAPIN-919,
2/
by which he was banned from holding public office. Included with
the application are selections from Mr. Hatoyama's personal diaries,
FE
1938-1942.
The application endeavors to show that Mr. Hatoyama, although
Chief Seoretary, was not responsible for the program undertaken by
the Tanaka Cabinet. The extracts from the diaries are offered as
evidence that Mr. Hatoyama was opposed to the Pacific War and was
not affiliated with the Imperial Rule Assistance Association.
Mr. Hatoyama's application was brought to this Mission by
CS/V
yk
Mr. KURUSU Saburo as a matter of interest. Mr. Kurusu stated that
Mr. Yoshida advised Mr. Hatoyama not to file the application, and
henoe it was never used.
Respectfully yours,
C
FIED
1948
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Application or Mr. Hatoyama
dated March 17, 1947.
2. Selections from Personal Diaries,
17.2448
1938-1942.
Original and ozalia to Department.
844/800
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.94)
70
APPLICATION DATED MARCH 17, 1947
LETTER OF PLEA "CHARGES AND EXPLANATIONS"
2
EVIDENCES AND REMARKS
APPENDIX A - P
Ichiro Hatoyama

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.92)
CONTEHTE
L. pplioation ......
2. Letter of Plea "Charges and Explanations" .......
3. Svidences and Hemarks ..
32-8
4. Appendix & Cabinat Paper Dated June 6, lose .....
53
5. appendix B
Tanaka Cabinet and Assassination of
General Chang Tso-lin ....
35
6.ppendix C
Lraft of Explanationa prepared by
Japanese Government 1n May 1946 But
not Submitted to CP oy Shidobara
Cabinet ....
42
7.anpendix 
Contents of "Visage of the World"
59
8. appendix 
"a Note-Book of  Liberaliat" by
Iohiro latoyama from January 1936
Issue of. Chuoh Kohron (Central Reviow)
9. ppendix
"Fights xmong Party Men" from
"Political Calender" in varch 24,
l93e Iseue of asahi uraph
86
lu.appendix
Extract from "Shidehara verplays"
by Tatsuc Iwabucu1 1n Lay 26. 1940
Issue of H1po. eekly
95
11. apnendix A
xtrect from Fint between Coneer
vative and eople's tronte" by Tetsu
Yoshids in July 1946 Issue or Se1ke1
Shunju (Politioal & soonomio annale)
15

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
12. Appendix I Extrect fram "Meve of Pelities eml
Move of Men" by Shinnosake abe in Jame
1946 Issue of Choryu (Current) ....... 2os
13. Appendix J Mamorandum by Keisuke Okada dated
February 21, 1947 ...
118
14. Appondix A Memorandum by Reijiro akatsuk1
dateá Fabruary 88. 1947
113
15. ppondix  emorazdum by Koieh1 Seko
on aotivities of Dokokai, November
1941 - Ly 1042
114
16. appendix M ailed dcresa in l942
ceneral sleotion
117
17. appendix N
"a nar Criminal - Hatoyauu - has
an ye to Government Pomer" from april
18, 1946 lssue of akuhata (lied Flag)
135
18. Appendix  xtrect fron etter of faikichiro
fegaws cated "Middle-duy" of November
1946.
140
19. appendix ? Mesorandum by Jiro moshijim
wletive to feiaei Seijikai ......
144

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.87)
4
-1 -
Takyo, Maroh 17. 1947.
To higeru Yoshida, sq., Prime Minister.
Japanese Government, Tokyo.
I earnestly nope thut you re-ezamine  emorandw uf
ey 3. 1946,  IN-919, which banned me frae putl1o office
of Liet Member. I further hope that, with your findings. you
apply La reconsidoration f my case to be re-studied from
the following viewpoints.
irst. can the charges contained in the Ca' iemorandum
be supported ? 1 submit that evidences cited in the omoran-
Cum ure either falao as to facts or falsely inter reted. at
least half the cases acuinst me is based on the astertion that
i "necesuarily share the responsibilicy" Tor Tunaka Cubinet's
amendcent or the reace reservation law and sun ression uf
"free s soeen" which followed that move between le27 and ls29.
ao hen i was Chief cecretory or the lanake veblnet.
unliko cniur deretaries t tday. i wes t a -lnister
ithout rts alio i had ao mst an the vubinet deeates
on te  reriel dict wntc effeuted the a vn ent in
qustln. cucs e   ws  tee by a eriel
slot nd t  bt ct. my  l

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.91)
一一
in Seiyukal was not concurned. In feet, porsemelly I ase
not afrix my seal to the officlal copy of the legielatims
as appended.
b. as eontemporary records shos, the purpose of amendins
the Feace Preservation Law was the suppression of Com-
munist elemente then preaching the foreible overthros of
Constitutional Government. In the years 1927-1929, only
this kind of "free s eech" was superossed as it is sup-
pressed in every den ooratic country of whioh we have any
knowledge.
c. fhe suppression of the farmer-labor movement mentioned
in the r amorandwn was auppression of Communist cells
whica had inriltrated into the farmer-labor movement. The
true Tarmer-labor wovement, on the other band, gained
atrength stoudily from 1927 until 1938 as rolls of Liet
membera tectiiy.
1 do not dony thst the legislation later was mig-used to
suppress lesitlmate free spesoh. 1 do deny that the umendment
could have seuned as dengerous in l92s as it now appears with .
the benefit r hindsi  t. ir  insists that. recouse 1 was
attaehed  ar net.  t moceseerlly e tho pos.
vonsltilloy". - wtie  t the pee onsieility lo fae free so
I submit that there is a sreat conruslon ur thournt since
the surrender over tis terms "licoralism" und "communiss". It

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.91)
has beeos a habit for Japanese and vecupation oritios of pass
aetions in Japan to assume that any aot of suppremsion mas
almays directed against "liberals". lhis is e felme amsmmptiem.
Comenoing with l927, ects of supprossion were aimed at com-
niem at variance with Japanoco Constitution and private enter-
prise syetem. Not until l9s 's were well under way, did Right-
lat totalitarians commenced suppreseine liberals as well as
Leftist totaliturians.
d. Car anorandw further chsr es me with "mass dimis
sels end arrests of toachers" when i wes  inister of
ducation fra 1931 to 1934. ihe only mass dismissal of
teechers in thet period concerned primary sohool teachere
in agano refeoture. Those dismissale were made by the
'refectural Governor and were outeide the control of the.
Xiniater of -ducetion.
e. . full rec ord of the faklawa case is a mended. 
the reoord showe, the man wes a cussunist and was teach-
ing a soral ode st shar varlenoe with Ja aneee way of
lire. in judgine my errorts te save she man comoved from
the suluance or tie young. i wish to ask t to consider
how lon he sould navs ceen allowed to cootimue as a pro
fessor in any tote-owned university in tle Jnlted wtatea.
f. . eorandu ctes a fee assages from s loee book
"Visace r tme rlo" co su  iriennly to azie and
-usciom somirin voren laber systen wso su ortine the

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.90)
aims of Japan in China. I submit that pessages muss be
matehed with passagos and that the ecmplets affeet of the
book 1s negative. «ith the passible exsoption f April 18.
1946, 1ssue of hala, a Camunist organ in Toky0, whieh
translation is appended hereto, no Japanese certainly eter
identified me because or it as "a tool of ultra-national-
istio intereste" and considered me as ane of the military
elique.
Eo a emorendus mentione my ailed address at the time
of l942 olection. 1 sutait that. like the book, this
ahould be considered in ite context whieh ineludes my
parsistent advocate for purliamentary government against
totalitorianisn, consistent iet opposition to ojo as
evidenoed in my formation of voko-kai and vicicus effort
of lojo Covernment to prevent my election in that campaign.
hd. you will edmit, in those days of war, camourlages
were sometimes necessary weu on mgalnst the rulin clique.
- inally, did I reelly "ueceived and misled the voonle of
Japan into millsuristle misedventure" ? sortsinly  t. if I
really cid so, : would have not lived in volitical bpourity
durine past 1 yenrs. 1 an convineee sbat ser peomle thought
of me ue an oononent to militurists llltaclcts luted me and
Pourtht me.  iberals in the  iet all concideres ts a friond and
an ally. 1 nover have boen snyt lne save a e vinced parlie-
monteriun. in the teverish suye of wer whon o sition to the

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.92)
一 5 -
ruline elique was perilous. I fought for Coastitatiunel Gevemm-
mat.
How could, then, the opinion of an Amerioan investigmtor
arrived on the sceno long after the event be formulatea that
I "deceived and misled" ay people "into militaristic mieadvem-
ture" in the feee of the feot that I was onsistently feeing
in the other direotion ? I strongly submit that the came should
be judged against the background.
 i would aporeciate your thorough re-examination of my case
and whetever reoaanendetion you can make to a? with your find-
ings of my pust records. attached to thie application 1s my
letter of plea "Charpes and ~xplanatione" dealing more in
details of my plee accampenied by avoendix a-D.
Ichiro Batoyume

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.88)
2
-  -
CHARGS N PLANATI
AP Memorandum dated Lay 3, 1946. XAPIN 919, relative
to mamoval and xclusion from Publie ffice of Diet
. hember.
1.
 Chier Sucretary f lanaka Cabinet
ar emorandur first chargee thet as Chier Seeretary of
the Tanaks Cabinct fras 1927 to 1929, 1 "necesearily share
responsibility for the formulation and pramulgation without
iet approval of umendment to the so-called Feace Preservation
Law" However, I subait that i sus not e partioipeat in this
legislation.
m June 29, 1928, onuka cabinet umended a part of so-
called Peace reservation Law, as cited in a Lemorandum, by
meuns of Jrgent imperial -dict. the amendment aimod to impose
heavier puniehments than berore on political movoment or action
deslgnec to bring about possitle change in the national consti-
tution. Orgent imperial -dict is a uovernment orde. which any
Cabinet 1e aut orizod under -rticle 8 of the Imperial Constitu-
tion to issue without cs poval or the siet and is a temporery
means of enactrent vo remain efrective until next  let is con-
vened with same legal force as uny law ds upproved by the Dlet.
However, wnlike chier screturles or toddy, i ses not then
a winister  ithout  ortrullo and was not a cabinet member wnder
the vovornent uyatem. a bed no surt tn the cabinet debatos.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
一
Fumotionally, at that time, it mas a chier of seareteriate ef
the Cabinet directly under the Prime Winister to emgage in
his goneral affairs. It was necessary. thersfore, ir a Chief
Ceeretary was to be a cabinet mamber, that a speoial Imperiel
aot of grace was to be  iven to him.  Suoh grace was used to
be given to President or Privy Counoils. but thore was no eass
until then thet it wes ever given to Chier Seoretary of the
Cabinet.
Thus, as chief voretary, 1 had no suthorization to study
and deliverate cm legislative measures to be introduced in the
uiet, nor on drart or imverial -dict to be promulgated by
anake Cabinet. Under the covernuent systom. it 1s the Dire-
etor of bursau of logislation, ons of the two bigh ofrioes
direotly under the cabinet, who rr tecinical vienvoints
studies and deliberates n drarts on legislutive measures and
imperial dicts, presents opinions and mmkes necessary pre-
parations for the cacinet discust lons, thue le itlatively
assistina ri minister on bohelr of tho vabinet. fhe bireo-
tor or sureau of Leglslation at that time wes foneze  aeda.
as coverment routinos. ir a be artment -inister vants
tablnet ay reval ane uecivicn un leglslative meusure er on
issuance t an imperial diet relutivs to afraict  is
juriedietlon, he is reyuestea vo make un a plicati n adereased
to the rime inister ucc annanieu by draft or such legisla-
tion ur Duperial dict.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.91)
2
一
The Chief Secretary ressives the applisatiom amd treme
fer it, as it is received, to the Direetor of Bureau of Lagts-
Lation. The Dirsetor of Bureau of Legislation, after studiss
and deliberations of the draft at his office, presents the
draft directly to the oabinet weeting acccmpanied by his opi-
nion and not throuch the chief secretary. when approved and
the decision is made at the Cabinet meeting. the Chief Seere-
tary will transfer the na er, in caso of Imperiel Ediet, to
the Lepartment of Imporial fousehold for submitting to the
throne for Imeerial sanetion.
he imperial udict in question. No. 129 of the Third Year
of shoaa (192s). amending a part of so-called eace Preserva-
tion Law, was formulated and promulgated in a procedure as
usual, in whioh 1 was only e routine officer. Its original
draft wae sent to Giich1 Janaka as rime inieter on ay 22.
l928, as a joint a plication of medon ara, inister of mstio
and iichi ranaka, as  inister of e Affaire. The draft was
then transferred to Yomezo  dede, tno Director or ureuu of
Legislation, who, with some wordins corrections made by his
oureau, subnitted the drars on June 6 to the cebinet meeting
uccampanfed by a recommendation that tie proposet amendment be
anproved and slened as aoolied.
in addition to the main column for seal r the Lirector
of sureau ot leplslatlon in tae ofrieial Irm  ree maendation
and ceciston  the vabinet, there is a side colum for seels

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.94)
of Chief Seoretary and Under-Secretary of the Cabimet as rou-
tine officers. In the present case, sabimet resord shoms that
I did not arfix my seal on the dooument, confirming that I had
not personal part not oaly in the debate of the legislation
but even in the handling of the recomendation, translation
or whioh 1s attacheu hereto as Appendix 
C? amurandun further goes in charging that the amend-
mont made by Tunaka Cabinet to the Bace Prescrvation Law
"made that law the Government's chier legel inatrument for
the suppression of freedom of specoh and freedom of assembly
and made possible the donunciation, terrorization, seizure
and imprisonment of tens of thousands of adhorents to reform.
thereby preventing the developmeat of effeotive opposition to
the Jupanese militaristic regime". Sowever, this was not the
only amendment. The Law has hed since undergone several im-
portant changos.
The Imperial diet in questlon was not an amendment.
desi ned to reelment u militaristic regime. its prime otject
was solely in the preservation and protection f fenno ystom
and National Ccnstitution. Ihe joint application of inistur
of Justice and  Inister of nome affairs stetes. as reasons of
the ameudment, in art:
" hilo Criminal Code prescrives sontences of
severe punishment on crimes of nisn treuson, insur-
rection, extornal danger und even n individual
crimes sueh as maroer and robbe ry. it wulo bo out
of proportion that the present  wece reservation
Law oresoribes imprisommont of only less than 1
years n lasurreeti m ané external daneer of thourht.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
-10-
It would not be proper to sseure the aim of the
logislntion.
"The fuot revealed in the reeant arrest of the
Communists that a well planned organised plot of
horrible nature has been under way on e large and
eollective scale is a surfioient evidenee to justify
a prompt remedy. es proposed, for the defeet in the
presont legislatione"
As above extrect clearly shows, the purpose of amending
the eace reservation Law was the suppreasion of Communist
elements then preaching the forcible overthros of the Consti-
tutional Government. In the years 1927-1929, only this kind
of "free speeoh" was suppressed, as it 1s suppressed in every
demooratic country of whioh we have any knowledge. I do not
deny that the legislation later was muoh mis-used by exteome
militarists and nationalists as "obler legel instrument" to
suppress even legitimate "freo speech". but, 1 do deny that
the amendment could have seemed us cungorous in l928 as it
now ap ours with the benefit of hindsight.
The werit of the legisletion should do aporeclated in the
light of then existing ciroumstances. if n? insists that.
becuuse 1 was atteched to the fanaka Labinet, I must "neoes-
carily chare the resmonsitllity". 1 strongly sutmit thet the
res onsibility is far fron co teavy o one se the languave of
n eaorandum hae made it appear. ( ee pondix  and )
2.  inister of ducatlon fro 191 to 1954.
Sest of the t chargos was that. ue  inister uf duea
tion frm becember 19ol to . oroh 19s4. 1 was resnonelble for
"atiflio freedom  sreee in ve cuhls by woens  mess

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.90)
7,
7
一11-
dismissals and arrests of tesshors suspected of leftiet leam-
ings or dangerous thoughts".
During my tenure of offiee, homever, reoord shows no
case in which, as inister of Education, nor even persenally.
I have had to do with in the mass dimmiseals and arrests of
sohool teachors.
the only such case as wuss arrests of sohool teeohers
during the period was that of Cmuniets on rebruery 4.. 1933.
from amons primary achoul teachers in Megano refeoture, in
whioh 2 8 "red" teachers of 65 orimary schoola were arrested
in a round up. sut. 1 had no hand in the matter.
as Government system, Linister of sduoation is to "ad-
minister arfairs reluting to aducation, sciance, art and re-
ligion" and naturally ecucat1onal mutters in primary school
are under his jurisdiction. nomever, while inister f du-
cation excroises a collective oontrol over educetional matters
in goneral, matters or primary echools and unuer wore, as a
matter of raot, ontrusted to the prefeptural govermurs and
wore not under direct suporvision of inister of cducation.
thus. in uccordunce with artiole s of the provlsione of
unction und Peanization of rerectural vovernments, prereo-
tural  overners were euthorized to exerciso discretional power
over the personnel asminietration of primary school teaohers
under rticle 1 of tue provisins of Functlon and ryenization
of Lepartment   xde rfaire.  iaister of mcucation wos not

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
- 8 -
im a position to be consulted with hos individual primary
schoul teaehere were going to be dealt with and why. Partieu-
larly, arrest of personnel for orimimsl reasem mms e matter
handled by the prefecturel governors under the joint direstiom
of Minister of Le affairs and Winister of Juetice. Thereils
no justification that  inister f duoation was to share a
rosponsibility in the case.
a's further cherge under this item that the dimiseal
in Lay 1953 of rof. Lakikama from the feculty of Ayoto Un1-
versity on my "personal rier" is a flagrant illustration of
my contempt for the literal traditione of academio freedom
and it "gave momentum to the apiritual mobilization af Japan
whioh, under the aegis ut the militery and eooncmic oliques.
led the nation eventuelly into war" perhaps needs more exeul-
pation.
oademic freedm meuns "frecd on of thought and freodom
of study". it should not be allowed, nowever, to be extended
to "freedn of action". in view of the ciroumstances then
existing. was rakikave unjustly dismlssed and without reaoon ?
"as his diemissal literally my "contem t I m the liberal tradi-
tlon  aeadeaie freedan"?
It was e time when undigested Larxian therory ren high in
this country when I took u my duty as winistor f lueatlon
in l95l to l934. the vovernment as well us the cution as a
whole wore seriously co cerned in those cays over the possible

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.91)
Y
-12 -
disturtanoes in public order and subesquent danger to the
National Conatitution.
Takikawa was an ardent follower of extreme Marximm. Mot
only leeturing on Marxian theory from the ehair of Kyoto Uni-
veraity und other colleges, he advoouted his radieal viows
through his boocs such es "neaders on Criminal Code" or "Leetures
on criminal Code". These books he continued to ciroulete dis-
rogurdine friciul susnension rder from the Depertment of
tome ffeire. I had repeatedly warned him for his muoh deri-
ance or national law only in vain.
as more rully explalned in the ap endix C. he advocated
the theory that number of crime can te rodueed unly by unlaw-
ful social refom. Le applauded revolution, glorified revolu-
tionists, an robated adultery as result of "class war" between
man and wcman in married life and denied heavy punishments of
murder or lineal ancendent as "a rerlex action" of foudal
petrierchal system. is wnole dis poaiun was und oubtedly beyond
an "academic atuay" and was a ste rurrard.
1 sent an instruetion to  r. sonichi, then resident of
Ayoto Univereity. to teke pecsdures necer cary rpr an action
abu . si l, ,   c.
The reason was that tehind nim yas a croup or crorossors of
Law Faoulty to which ukikana belongee whcte conceneus of
opinion wus that any suen pereonnel disposition should be
decided by the Univerelty incopenuuatly "on the bssis of olf-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.87)
，
7
- 14-
governing prineiple of Univeroity" and not by kinister of
aducation.
The point of gontroversy was not thoy wore munporting
lakikewm'e theorles and conduct, but they were oppeming to
interference to "self-governing principlo or University" of
Linister of ducation who is un administrative body of the
Covernment. the controversy vue resulted in their wholesale
resination.
Their protest wus tesed on clause 2 or rticle B or the
provisions or r anization  ayoto University whion reads as
follows.
"nclative co pereonnel dispositiun, resicent of the
Univerelty shall sutmit the caeo to kinister of
sducation fur senior orficial rank (aoto-kan) but
shall decide on his omn authority for junior offi-
cisl rank (mannin-zen)."
Chis rovisie, while it emposers resicent or the Uni-
verslty artltrary decision or personnel attere of junfor
officiels. rescribes that e ls pst sll cwoe sale wrthurity
for senior ofriciels. mmontly
roleer d estetet Pores.
sors. te is requested to ply te cese to mlnleter r duea
tion who will take necesoary wovl on lasive to  ts oslti n
of personnel in guestion.
In ree oet to t ls elase, a rou"  rotese re took the
view thet lnister  ueati is ut in sitivn to vake
an inltletive action unlese tae cese is sucmittoe by the
President und they construed it ue "sulr overalns" or the

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.89)
Y
- 15 -
university. Lopartment of dueation, however, tesk a differ-
ent view that the provision authorised the President his pomer
of application to inister of ducation for semior ofrieiale
in contrast to his arbitrary power relative to personmol die-
position  junlor officials and tuat it does not intend to
restrict in any sense bho outhority of Minister of dueation.
The sist of the controversy was as above explained and
thue the wubstance was not in the right or wrong or pro' and
con. of fakiicaa' thouht und conluct. In this re ard.
Lakikawa's coso ontirely differs in nature from the oontroveray
at fokyo University in l9s9 when 13 professors resiened in pro-
test to the "purge" of the -conamio Faculty directed by br.
Liraa, tnen resident.
irst pressure uoun lakikawa was oruget by Deartent of
nose afisirs in suppreesing his books. In defiance of this
vovernment order and or my roneatec warnine, rakikawu contiuued
the circulation or his booke. 1 aimsiseed the man on my sutho-
rity as -inister of  duoatin. it was an action or necessity
on my part reeponuible Iur eaucatlonal adnlnlecration or the
country. in jud ine my orrorts to have the Lun removed fram
the guidunco o the yong. i wisn to ah at to coneider how
lone he would nave been alloweo to contlnde as a proressor in
any -tate-owned university in tie Vnited tates.
in view tn the a ve clrounstuneos, it will to clear enough
that how culle lakikavs cuse lvo suen 'wm estus to spiritual

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.90)
-16-
mobilization of Japan whioh, under the megis of military and
cconomic eligues, led the nation eventually into mar" as eem-
oluded in the SCaP Kemorandum.` It is falsely interpreted.
Moreover. prims purpose of Lase Minister's aetion in suppres-
sine his books was in the rosorvation of intornal peace for
the obvious reusun that his thoory and conduct were harmful
to tho putlic order and coud custans of the people.
cee for further iarormation attached translation of the
draft of explanation prepared by Ju panese overnment in May
1946 and also full record or epartment of ducation or ay
1933 on tie aisulesal, theories and contents of his books.
(appondix c)
3.
orced pissolution of armur-labor eodiea
and poctrine of mmeimentation of Labor
a securandun cher es ue third item that i "aleo parti-
cipated in the forcud dissolution of farser-labor bodies" and.
in addition, y "indorse ent or totalitariuniem, secifically
in ite upplication to the regimentation ano control of labor
is a matter of rocord".
However, 1 have no nowled e that 1 cave ever bad "parti-
cipated in the forced sissolution of farmer-labor boeles". nor
indorsed "totalitarisnism, smccifically in its am lication to
the recal eatatlon and control w lutur".
while 1 was chier coretary  tanad cablmet, 1027-l929.
Labor-Farmer vurty, Labor Union councils, Toletariate Young

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
nista' seoret organs, were ordered to dissolve by Department
of Mome Affairs on pr1l l, l928. This was an actiom, hemever.
taken independently by Department of Home affairs to put am
end to the so-called Second Round-Up of Comunists made on
Maroh 15, 1928, following series of events of Communists ar-
rests since 1923. ut, this hed no relation to me whatsoever.
"hile keynote of policy of fanake Cabinet toward legitimate
labor bodies suéh as Social Peoples. Party. Japan Peoples Party
or National Feonles arty was a moderate one in coneral. it
hes taken a policy of decisive suppression against radical
caaunists organe as they were known to instigate anarehicel
roforu by force.
Thüs, the su presslon of farwer-labor movement as then
widely known wus the suppression of Conunist cells whioh had
infiltrated into tue farmor-labor movement. The true fsrmer-
labor movement, on the other mand, suined strength steadily
from 1927 tu 1958 ss the rolls or wlet momtere testiry.
I submit tuat there le great confusin sr toou ht over
the terms "Liberalisn" and "ocamuniaa". it has becume a habit
since surrender for Ju anese and coupation critios or vest
actions in Ja an to assume that any act  su pression was
alveys directed acainst "Liberals". his is a false asswantion.
Comoncine with l927, ucts or su nrocsicn wore aimee at Comu-
nism at sharp variance with Japaneee ccustitutional vovernment

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.90)
一3..
and private onterprise system. Not until the 19so'e were wall
under way did Rightiet totalitarians eomence suppressing
liberals us well as Leftist totalitarians.
No reourd is aveilable whioh coniirms that I heve ever
sponsored the doctrine of the regimentation and control of
labor, as i nave had practically no association mith labor
inatitute, ouittoes, nemspaers, magazines or any other labor
organizations, fficial anc unofriciul. How . could traco
up to conolude that 1 ave ever indorsed "totalitarianiam
specirloully in its an licati. to the rogimentation and con-
trol or labor" is a mystery t me.
The snly rosemblance of suon report. since a Memoran-
dum further refers to my recomendation that "it wauld be woll
to trans laat «itlerite anti-labor devices to Japan", is..a
few nassages on nage lly of my book "Visage of the world", my
diary of trip abroad in l937-l98, relative to labor educational
systen of derany.
If this is the source, a carurul readins or the passages
will tell that it ls a  is-inter retetlon t t e contents in
as muoe ae that remarks veserltes on that mue relative to
verman lator ste ie t po orte to o in berlin on otober
4. 1os, by  yesh  ve r   ome frairs. Pokyo.
who was then staylns in sermany Sor stucy of Sazi lesor systene
n tne coutrury. se rar us 1 um concerned,  vas arulnst truns-
plantine cazi econcie  e politloul syetem to aman "where

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.89)
7
-18-
resial, econmical and other conditions vary" as I bave alserly
deseribed on . 128-129 of my above book. (See also ppondix
2)
I have never been & sponsor of "the doctrine of regimente-
tion or labor". I am convinced no reoord will identify me as
"a tool of the ultranationelistic interests whioh engineered
the reorganization of Janan on a totalitarian econamic busis
as a pre-requisite to Its wars of agsression", nor will prove
my "innate anti athy to the demooratio principle or the right
of labur". The charge is capletely unrounded.
4.
yrin toerica and estern urope
1937-198
 Lehorandus then relates to my trin to merica and
estern urope. 1957-1938, as "personal emissury of the then
"rime Minister Lonoye" and cherges that while abroad I "negoti-
ated coonamic urrangement rer su  rtin the war aseinst chine
and subeeyuent expluitation of that country after subjugation"
and "with duplicity" 1 told ritish rime -inister in l9g7 that
"China cannut survive unless controlled oy Japan". bviouely
these charges were citen tru my vook, as above rescrred.
"Visage or te vurle'. mutllenon in ivee in pokye. whion ro
prints my diery l the trio fras July loo? to  ebruary lo6.
(see ppendix )
1 plenned this tri not as a peraonul emissary of conoye.
olitic lly. in those cays. 1 mae nut lav reuly looked upon by

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.91)
Y
一80.-
militariets and nationalists. I lived in obsourity and could
have the time to weke a trip ebroad to renew my knowledge.
After I arrived Germany, homever, I received a cablegrem on.
etober 12. lu3? fram fokyo Governaent asking me to contimuo
travel us a national envoy of Japan. how it happened for
Aonoye to mado sucn a requost was not, and etill is not, known
to me. onoye cid not instruct me uny speoiric mission nor.
conditions. robably rokyo wovemm ent wanted to have it for a
shom that it hac sent a national envoy. (See poendix D and
G)
Luch being the case, while abroed I hud never "negotiated
econdsic arrangement for aupporting the sr against china and
the subeequeut exploitation or the country afte: subjugation".
The only resemblanee to this was y intorview with then worman
conamio Linister cheoht on vctober 5. l937. before 1 socepted
the aomolatment f nati mal envoy. in this i tervios, se dia-
ouesed varlcus soonomle problems between vermany cnd Japan
including verman-damanese coope rati on in exnlolting netural
resourees of chine und voseible barterinm syetes bu tween the
two countrles as i tore tall cilate un pe. lal-lrs or my book.
ut, our conversatlons were merely exchat  private viows
and were For fron "negociation".
it io ulso unr sandee that a pro seo tu then ritish rime
Minister a l mn 1or Jacan, 1 tolked to sote busine ss men such
as sir tobert incercley so et ing uf poscil ility ln future of

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
C
-2-
British fimenoial help to Japan when China Ineident is setties.
but never to British Prixe Minister. What I tale British Prime
Minister Chamberlain on Novomber 23, 1937 was the general mita-
ation in China and that she needs Japanese holp to murvive.
un tuis polt, perhaps moro dilation will be necessary.
In brief my views on china at that time fully shared thome of
E. bend and sillingham, both veteran New York fimes Correspon-
dents in tne Far ast, who collaborated on a book "Can China
turvive", whioh expressly cancludes that "the prospeot for
aurvival of chine, except under Japunese directine, or as
adjunct to the soviet Union, soems clocmy indeed". I desoribed
same vievs on po. 3, 7 und 34 a my book quotine their
opinions.
0
ohen 1 met Britisn remier Chawberlain, 1 frankly told
him that i entertain a doubt whether chine oun survive as a
full inde mendent nation, that Chine has to choose either to
survive under Javanese influence or under thas  the soviet
Unlon and that Ja un is tryin to drive oviet intluence out
of chind whion cunsuwaation will not only bener it china but
aleo other povers. I furtner strossed to britis fremier that.
for this pur cse, it is esoential I or Jaran to ostabliss a
separate Nurth vhine wovernment under Japanese influence in
order to coubat witn tee invuul oviet inrluence.
y whole sispositiuns on politics in seneral snd Chineee
situation are more fully enutoraten in p endix  on y book
"Visese or te orld".
s ed on several pares or the

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.86)
7
• 28 -
book, I almays hoped that the war in Chins would come to a
close as early as poselble not only for the bemefit of Chime
but aleu for tho tonsfit of this sountry.
5.
y alleg daresa ta Conaituent
in 2942 120tion
The -emorandun rinally charges on my muiled addrese in
1942 election. .s such crinten uddreas usually was not woll
valued in the past can aigns by Japanese constituente, its
oreparation wae, in many coses, wus left in the hands of othere
then the oandidete inrelf. y mailed address was not an ex-
cetion. it wes written by r. . Yamaura, one of my politi-
cal friende and uesistante. put, I have no elouse in thia.
 icked u fra. tre sddress several passagee and cited
that 1 "u tele the doetris  territorial ex mansion by meane
or war. referred to tee attack on warl varber as fortunately
.... a  rost victory, stated us a fact that tre true cause
ot to nonuriu und cnins incidente was the anti-Ja paneso
sentiment (in unina) insti uted by mugland and merica, ridi-
culed those who in 192e and l029 had craticlzed the renake
Cabinet, boasted that the cabimet hud liguidatec the (previous)
wenk-kneed ui lmacy tomard ngland and sericd and eloated
trat txey v.e world poliey cral teu by the fonake vabinat is
eteadily bular reallzod".
wvr ui tamatohed with 
sages nd st, li  o s al elree r te adres

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.87)
-2 -
is attaohed hereto as appondix .
I also submit thet the l942 cleotion was held during the
feverish days of mar under extremely strained and abnormal eem-
ditione. Under the streas of circumetance, I admit, the addrems
was worded oy the writer with exaggerated and disguised ex-
pressions in derending me tran the ettack of the opposition
and fojo Government, as i was then branded as morican-Eritish
faction and anti-war pacifist. s te trunsletion shows, it
praieed in pert fojo and mls policies, but any reader of the
whole letter vho nows the situttin wilt find the tone of
innuendo instead of sulogy end of velled criticiep instead of
trituto ul oraise.
In short, it wus a vey of sheltering in mailing the
addrese to the mass f people who wore fascinated with the
militarist's regine and the war. Ironical to say, in the l942
election, addrosses and eleetion reorts of non-recomonded
candidetee were more in milituristic tone thun t su of re-
cosmelded conolutes  lojo covermrent.
if we tako in con-
siderasion the stn rmel oliticel cirounet mmeve wd payehologi-
oul coneltl os l vobore  lo  wleetle I suoalt that
itoc severeesur
Plelal to take y aall moccess t lts ruoo vlae" to sou
latedeelal
w l wl  f  y   s

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.89)
37
called "¿anaks Paliey" since the eharge conclades that my
1dentification with "the nctorious Tamake Peliey of warld sem-
quest", whother genuine or opportunietie, iteelr brande m "as.
one of those who deoeived and misled the people of Japem into
militaristic misadventure".
unake Cabinet, 1927-l929, was often miesepresented as a
military cabinot sponsoring polioy of continental aggreesion
by force. Porhaps, one reaeon was that the cabinet was headed
by late Giichi lenaka, then an army general on reserve list
but formerly ar  inister of Japanese Government during orld
ar 1. rerhans, because he sont Japanese troops to Shentung
in lay l927 and later called the ao-oalled Lastorn Conference.
rerheps, cecause his nave was often montioned in connee-
tion with the Goouent known as "Tanaka temorandum" which is
widely believed to ce a guiding principle and policy of the
whole programme of Jaoaneso military invasions leadin up to
Pacific ar. r. perbups more scc cuntable I or suct misrepre-
mentation was the sueden douth sr wencral whn -rso-lin, then
par Lord of  enchuria, by ex losion or his s ecial train at
midnight or June s. l9, ut rullsey Junctin searuy the Lukden
tation. fhe incicent led u to sre eveatual resigmation of
fanaka cabinet in July Ivzs, loovles i rosslons so the world
that funeke cabimet hed cootainm vo co witn t e unt rounate
ascassinstion.
shile the latter two peesone ure more t ortant, the

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
in its sumer session of 1946 that the so-called "Tanake Meme-
randum" wus a lvù per cent fabrieated dooument, that the as-
sussination of Chang fso-lin was an independent and arbitrary
plot of awantune rmy oarrled out without the knowledge of
Tanaka cabinet and thet "the Tanake Polioy", contrary to the
outside interpretation, was more designed at closely eooperat-
ing with the anchurian ar Lord in developing economie re-
sources of unchuria.  this is the truth. I expect that
taf will reconsider ite char e on "nctorious ianaka Polioy
of. world conguest".
6.
Lave 1 "jecsived and misled" the peonle of Javan
into ar
The most serious churgo to me of all of the at Nemo
randum is that & have "deceived und misled the people of Japan
into militaristic misedventure". meally did I ? certainly
not.
1 die m best all thrv mast  yeare in building-up a
sound parliamentalianimm ia this contry.
n every possible
occasion. i em masizee chat uly a spirit on rair-play could
establish a real urlluaentaliunisn. nd, in my oninion, only
liberallan ls a mother uf cnd arllanentalianier and a spirit
of fair ley. becuuse, 1 ucvocete, a true llteraliss develope
only on the basls or sulr-resreet of every incividuel pereon-
ality. y constitue ts ell n ow this. that ie why our neoples

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.86)
.2
r
一.  -
for years called me a liberelist. £ven such men likm Yakie
Uzaki or Daiklchiro Tagawa. although they belong to different
party. will testify this in my favor.
Political situation in Japan has undergone a drastio
ohange during the ast cecade ur sa Generals and soldiers
stepped into politics. Liborals were all shut out of the
theater. Various things haopand.
unce i was told thst 1 mas held by militarists for 57
crimes on accunt of my article contributed to a certain maga-
zine. at another time, i vae wurnod thut mililarists were
plottine to arreet me in a cou detate to other with Takao
Salto and aunimateu hmda, both noton Ja anese demoerats.
shen rebruury 2o inoldent broke out. i took a pofu e for 5
days in a frlend's house in  ongo Listrlct of fokyo. as danger
was so Lminont. lso 1 remember an cecaslo., when 1 wes -du-
cational  inister, thut - wae chase rone in my frico by
extreme righsiste with bare ewores.
Pojo dovernsent's intorierence in ve Leds vlectlon is
well known. Hone the less severe was tneir Lnterferunce, no-
cordine to  experience. in che leo? election. y srip to
-urope and merioa wae  reeult r such olitical situatlon.
I could have nothing to do nolitically and I has a time.
wose or y frienco anvised me that i better issue a state-
mont upon returnlne hoe fr broe aon ane a sura or ny
ooat or u tostasy. at ws true ths et t at tle culko of my
a

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.86)
2
一-
apostasy were spreading over in this country., I remember when
I arrived in London in etober l937, Chokioh1 Miyawakt. a
member-eleot of Rouse of epresentatives and my colleagus, who
was then staying there, strongly advised me not to change
colors. fhia 1 am quoting fra pago l63 of my book "Vieage
of the orld".
Üpon landing at Yokohama in rebruary l938, 1 was reoeived
in opon arns of many of y political friends who proteoted me
against the rightlets' lot to revent my lunding. un the
very day of my return to Japun. 1 met remier onoye and urged
not to let tse kationul obilization ill aponeored by mili-
tarists pass the fet. eo ite ur sposition, the peneral
situution was in favor or the ill. Therefore, I ceclined to
vot8.
It is a matter or record shat, tether with eijun ndo.
tsujiro teharu, itosbi shida und others, then members of
Louse or a resentatives and my olisidel colleapuee, I opposed
to the ulgnlns or ri- owor  lltury act betweos Jpun, sermany
and italy. e frequentl: mot, discussed and cia our best in
preventine the conelusln t t.e mot. ts wae,  wever un
wnalr lt t l ale   the
time. ve were ble ed and lacee under e stant waten by wilito
rists ano natlo allets ns "anslmllibarist" wud unmutriet".
zime drll ted wecidly ralse us. I tos my re e to
baraizave for most or the se trhee. shat ts why I was culled

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.90)
人
7
一一
as "on-lockers" of mar. 1 seoluded myself sinoe fram the pe-
liticel activities, perhaps, homever, with tmo exeeptiens.
une wes the formation of Dohkoh Kai in l96l soen after the
widely known oration at the Liet by Takmo Seito, denounoing
militarists' pelicy whioh made him embroiled in a politieal
trouble. It was organized by 35 members or the Diet, includ-
Ing Yukio zaki, who opposed to the bucget bill for Taisei
Yokusankai (Imperiul ule ssistance acciation). I poceded
fram Soiyukai arty und fought through the whole sossion of
Liet againat cills of ar-time coocial Criminal ccde and Con-
trol ot ur veech. utlicution and ussombly in the protection
of the eo les ri ht.
The sther e wes y admonitin in June lu4s to Japanese
Covernment and executives of raisei Yokuseika1 (Imperial ule
olitical .sscciation). For about l years, i kept silsnt in
the Liet. nly i remember twice 1 called on Chuji Laohide.
then resident   inseito -urty. to discuss with hin to re-
joct the bill fur increuso in the tud. et for salsei Yokusenkai.
us i alvaye oosed to it.
in the l9es elcetion. thon roje wovermment rerusee to re-
e mmend me ae cdidate. lhey lo. lctod, every mlble
triek te intervene in my copml m. r eaa lo, shoy reeou
mended alsushi mawarxcsi, one f my closu llvle.l su  ortere.
froe my eleetral slatrict in sokye to prevent my electlon.
I could not oven fresly s euk t, y constitusnts. ther my

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.89)
political metivities mere also prevented. La the elestiem fer
Tokyo Lamioipel Assembly whieh was held sabeequent to the
general olection in l94s, I was arrested when I mes speaking
at a political moeting of a friond of mine and takon to Kisagase
Polico Station in asakusa District. The reason was that I
spoke on "froedao" as oaspared to "eontrol" und opposed to
Governaent's theury of control.
Prior to war was dsclared 1n l94l, 1 once called on Baron
ekatsukl, ur ing him to direotly appeal to the Throns to
change Konoyo, tLen Fresier, becauso if cuch a weak-willed men
romaine in the post of remler, I Felt the danger of war be-
tween erica and Jepens I romember I also talkec to Admiral
Reisuke kada same sut joct. ekatsusi e, reed with me. but
kadu categorioally denled thut thore never will te e wer be-
tween tho two oow tries.
Aver since the war, i aatici uted evontual deroet of Jupan.
I frequently marmed-ad ar dos early wnuln of the war. I did
so particularl be onoye, t won l pore fell in our
hande, t wen alli e rsln un calan srtd wnd In the
last when llied enerel asten . xinua was imineat.
ar encod in Ju an's coavlute defeat. rlme has chunged.
un mugust 22, lo4, 1 retur e to tono encora ed by m po-
Litioal frienes to or onize a nen parti. chus. tiberals arty
ouse into existonce.  won tre loctin a. just at the last
moment to organizo y snn cabinct, I was carred os af oresuid

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
人
as "undesirable porsonnel" by λP en the charge thas I as
"ame of those who deobived and mieled the peeple of Japam Snte
militaristie misadventure". I strongly muimit that the whole
eharges should be thoroughly reexmmined and resensidered, Fop
additiomal information, see appendix and explanations of evi-
denoos.
7.P1
When i first heard various talks about my eligibility. I
paid no attention to them as I thought them e prank on the
part of my opposition. I heurd fron newspeper sourees such
as asahi during my several day's canvaes trip in Shikoku in
February l94o that I mas made in Tokyo definitely ineligible.
but I did not still mind it. I continued my trip fram Shikoku
to Kyumhu as my itinerary callod for.
hon eleetion was over and Liberals won the No. 1 party,
again various rumors rallied. Some maid I was hopeless. Same
said I was all rignt. so far as 1 am concerned, I did met
even think of calling on Ca? for explanation, beeause I firmly
believed that I am innocent all the way t roughe But, there
were reasons to believe that cortain group of usn were in the
Govermoent (hidenara Cabinet) who were malleicus to me and
who mere planning samething to deepen suspoeta eround myself.
This motivated my following statement to the public, as gener-
11y reported, at the Literels moeting on ur11 27, 1946.
"Let  tell you at this ocousi wnat I feel and.
believe relative to my personal affair as so muon tulks

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.90)
入
一
are eiroulated around.
"First, about my book 'Visage of the World'. Thas
book is simply e diary of my trip to urope and meries
several years ago. ny perusal of the whole book will
convinee that I am a pacifist. On some pages, I eertainly
praised some of the good points of Germans and Italians.
but I clearly stated that we should not beeame a Fasslst.
Along with cermany and Italy. I praieed on peveral pegee
of the took ood pointe of merlea and ngland too.
"Leconoly. mume criticize the fact that I oppomed
to ommuniem. inis is, however, only natural beouuse I
cannot agree with Cxmunists wo oppose to Tenno syatem.
"I rather feel a pity for those who reproached me.
until the eleotion is over, as 'on-lookera' of wer.
blamed e at the time r the l942 eleotion as merican-
British fucsion, now suddenly turn over-nigtt in vituper-
atin mo as s resotiry und a militarist. ll the
fair-miaded citizone of our country know that I um an
advocate or liberelise taronchout the pust S yeare.
"I dec ly regrot that tro Government did take no
action curing pust 1 duys or more in cleaning up
suspects looin over myself. thus causing the present
political uncertainity. Ahe Government non should take
ite responsibility swriously in decidinp black and white
of the case."
Shidehara vabinet did not shcs any resoonee to my state-
mont. In the meontie,   orandws was issued.
un kay , l946. after  uys the  emorandun was issued.
I was tole that Jeponese wovern ent hat s letsor of explena-
tion ready about wy came to tro erleet thst bth laklkawa case
and "vleage  toe orld" have no reasons to mne me ineligible.
1 received a copy o te crast n -ay 7. le4o, tranelatlon of
whieh le attuche ruto  ponl .
it a poure to mo that this letler or explanatin was pre-
pered much earlier then tnese lates. if. at thot time, the

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
一一.
Japanese Government was informed, as pointed cut in the aGa?
Mamorandum, that my eligibility to hold any publie offiee was
open to doubt in the light of svidenees published snbsequent
to my soreening by the Japanese Govermmont, why did the Japamese
Government not send the lettor of explanetion to SCaP immedi-
ately ? A ystery. (seo appondix B and J).
1 am convinced that our people exodpt Communists thought
or me as an opponent to militarists. (See Appendix N) Mili-
tarists hated me and fougt me. Liberals in the Diet all eon-
sidered me o friend and an ally. I never have been anything
seve a convinced parliamentarian. ( ee Appendix & and ) In
the feverish days or mer when opposition to the ruling olique
was perilous, I fought for Constitutionel Government. Hom
coule, then, the opinion or an merican investigator arrived
on the soene lone sfter the eveut be formulated that I "deceive
end misled the onle of Jaan into militarietio misudventure"
in the face or fact thut i was constantly fuoing in the other
direotion ? 1 earnestly boe  e fair and unbiased judge
ment。
Tohiro a soyama

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.86)
-388-
VIDENCESANDREHARKR
PPaNI Cabinat Paper Lated June  la2e. showing I hea
no part in the cabinet decision on Urgent Imperial diet mmené-
ing a part or so-called feace Presorvation Law.
ht evart fr Cabinet Recorde on alation of 
mmanination of Chane fao-lin to lanaka Cabinat. l927-l9ze. mhon-
ing the assassinatiun wa: carried out without knowledge of
Taneka Cabinet. The event was a cause of widely spread mis-
understandinge apout so-callod "Continental Folioy" of Tanaks
Cabinet. rhis ppendix shows the misunderstandings were com-
pletely uni oundud. Covios of correspondences between Premier
Lanaka, Japanese auth orities in Manchuria and ar Minister
Shirakawa at that time have been loaned to merican Prosecutor
at Tokyo ur ribunul.
AuL ttetter of xolanatious abut y liuibility
prenared by Lepertwent of nome affairs and Lepartment of sdue
gation prior to v turce on uay 3. lese. but not ouboitted to
Cap by chidehara tallaet. showins akikane was a Camunlet
and his dismiseal wae a cutter of necusuity. it uleo explains
my book "visucs of te rle" ruralshes no peasonable ground
for puree ireetive.
  ookVisase of theorl" sho
ing:
e.
That 'I labored to preveut areravation or Ju an's

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.86)
-38-8-
international relations and outbreak or armed cenrliet
betwesn Ameriea and Japan.
b. That i am opposed to totalitarianim and militerim
e. That I am a pacifist and how I worried over Japamese
publio opinione being guidod toward anti-British.
d. That how I worried abcut spreading over of China
Incident and hoped improvoment in living standard in China.
Pl y rticle " Note-bovk of a Liberaliat" in
January lase Lasue of chuor notron (tentcal eview). As this
article care out in January 193o iscue, 1 had probably writton
it in course of November less. it shows i publioly advocated
liberalism and parllamentalianism und opposed to militarists
diotatorshi, when teir high-huncedness was gonerully feared
following assasinatlon of Imukui.
A
" oliticul vulender" uy katoshi from sahi
Graph of Lacch St. leoe ssue, showing I was an anti-militarlst.
a liberalist and a parliumontallaniat from course of years
prior to lo37. n July 13. 19u7, 1 saile nobe for s trip
abroad. It is wull-known taut : inco i mave lived in political
obscurity for l. years. i have not teen cnytuine but "an on-
looker".
"oniconere Terclavs" ov satono Srabuoht fron
Ley 26 1946 1se  s1 . shing
&o
That possitle covelo ent of whino cneidens wes
aatioipatod ouly by a sroen ul militarlsts end nut by

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.89)
--
Konoye and by many othera.
b. That militarists, rightista and my oppositions all
assailed ne es "American-british faetion" and a libe-
ralist.
C.
That I did not sharo responsibility in amending a
part of Pesee Freservation Law.
isht between Cnservative's andeople 
Eronta" by letou Yosuidu frau July lose Iaaue of selkel Shuniu
(Political & coonomie nnals). showing:
That I aa a liberalist and anti-militarist.
bo
That 1 aid not share responsibility in amending a
part of Peace .reservatin L.
o. That 1 had no art in Ioreign policies of fanake
Cabinet.
"hove of Folitics snd sove of Len" ov shinnosuke
Abe from Junu loae Iasue l choryu (turrent), showing I am a
liberaliet, a purliameutalianist uud opposed to rojo ull throu-
ghout.
PPEALLJ
memovae b eral and exe reater reieuke
kade datec Tebruary 2l lea7, snowing 1 worked to prevent
possible armed coarliet between america and Ja an.
the semorandus, mowever, sas mace a mistake in stating
that "it was whon rirst vomoye vabinet pas in prooess of fForma-
tion". his his mesory is mot correct. it was durl second
honoye tabinet that i wont to kedo to ask to work to cause

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
7
- 528-5-
resignation of Konoye Cabinst.
it that time, informed ciroles in this sountry wore afraid
of the eventuelity of armed confliot between meriea and Japam
in vier of tnu development in suropean situation and mpreading-
over of china Incident. hen rirst honoye Cabinet wae formed,
alonji, "the wonro", wus still alive and I am not sure whether
ukada was in a position to be consulted on political matters.
Be that as it ay. the omorandum will serve to ahow that I
worked to prevent eny vossitle conflict betwoen the two coun-
tries.
N
Lamorendum by ex- remier eliiro akatsuki dated
obruery 88. 1947, shomin sisilar evidence as ppendix .
PraNsL. I Komorandum by volchi seko (arliamentary Vice
Miniatos of oe fuirs 19slgal on  ormattn of cokoket.
showin, my opposition to "pro-military oonortunicta" and Taigel
Yokusankai (Impurial mule assiatance Association) as my doe-
trine was that such an orranization was against a conetisutional
povernental eystem.
Iy lled dres ln rl l9 lectio Fol
lowing points ure to be spucifically exmlained.
The clause whien surerficially sreised fojo under
heading "ne vote service" is in ruality un innuendo
and not an eulcay us mny Ja anuse reuder cun cosily
appreciate. ihe clan o. instuad, dencunced a Liet run
by pro-wilitary op ortunists ane streesed the iapor-

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.90)
人
7
.- -
tanoe of a true representative Diet. The metive of
eiting Tojo's woede in the sddress end praised his
deeision to hold an election was to "amash the ememy
with enemy's weapon".
It was a matter of reoord that how apecobes and
addresses of nn-reoamenied candidates were suppressed
by Tojo Govermment in 1942 election. For emmple,
mailed addreasos and election reports of our allied
candidates wore required to be inspected and same of
thom woro not pormitted to be mailed to conetituenta.
In faot, es widely known, non-recoxsended candidates
were elmoet not allowed to carry cut even "authorimed
mothode of campaien".
b. Some insist that I claimod myeelf as "German-
Italian fection" merely beeause I stated in the adaress
under heading "there is no merican-British faction"
that "acoordin to my book. I mi. ht be called German-
Italian faction". Ihis is too muoh "cooked up" argu-
mont. The olause is un intsgrel part  the olause
that ridiculed thoeo who calloc me as "marioan-Britich
faction" and is a rubuft as tnom
Ly opposltione accused se as "merican-sritish
faction" as they mew that I uson to preime et almost
every election hcs pritish parliacentary system is
operatod and also as they knew I ooposed to any eon-

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
fliet with meriee and agland. The elaée in qes
tiomn mas insorted to defend my positiem agminst smes
aeousation and will ssrve to shom, an the sontrary.
thas I am a parliamentalianist and a pecifist.
S. The Last elause of the address that "Japan's Werle
Poliey as designed by Tamaka Cabinet is nos steedily
being realiged" was wordod, to my sineere rogret, with
too much oxaggerations, although its original imsent
was a refutal againat the charge of oppositions that I
was "amorican-british fection" and anti-war pacifist.
I believe, homever, any reader of the whole paragraph
will understand what the mubstanee is.
PPaNLI N a ar Criminal - katovan - Han an ve to
Pemar" fron Anr11 18. 1946. Isaue of akabata (Bnd Flag) an
Typieal Axample of communiat sesail.
This oharge of Akuhata probably would have given sCap
unfevorable impressions toward my case, tecause, at that time.
Japanese Coverment showed no reaponse to Cap opinion to
ro-oxamine my elig1bility und 1 too failed to explain to SCAP
on my case. Both conmitted iaportant oversights. as enumer-
ated under. the artiole is almost completely unfounded.
ao i was once wory close with haku Mori as akaheta
points out, but hia subsoquent close association with
the army and milituristu hud sevored our relation.
ky frionds all know this. 1 was not one of hie
"atellites".

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.93)
-
b. I never had "drove che of the most pregressive
professcre out of Kyete Impariel Umivessity".
s. I have no kmowledge about Tako episoss.
d. I nover had "manouvered" in negotiating wish
foreign powere to supply this coumtry with inatru-
ments of war.
f. I have no mamory I had ever talked to or con
malted with Gisuke yukawa or Shingo Taude on peou-
niury or any other matters.
Thus, this acccunt of Akahata has played up with my ease in
most malicicus imagination. It is a maximum slander and in-
sult I ever knw.
Futher roferonou is made to the followine articles whioh
sranslations were amitted fran the Appendix to avoid dupliee-
1on or effeet with the articles as appended above.
a. "Hatoyama and Nozaka" by Seijin Fukagawa in April
1. 1948 lesue of "Sozo" (Creation). p.58, stating 1n
part:
"Latoyama was continually eleoted to
the viet member despite lojo's rerusal of
recomondation and his extreme pressure
brought unon him. How we hear his purge.
It louts to be a little bit too severe."
"Jiyuto (Liberale) represeats groups
of men historically anti-militerists and
anti-yokusan (Imnerial ule ssistanee
associution members) in sentiment."
b.
"Men in  olitical esa - hatoyema, eito, Katayam

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
and Nosake" by Keniek1 Yamaure in Jane L. 1oss Lasse et
same publication, p.46. The artiels points cut:
"What Hatoyams tried during the war was
first to overthrom Tojo Cabinet, shen to ter-
minate fighting with Chins by using influaness
of Tojo's oppositionk so that Pasirie War eoule
be avoided, and, after ar was deelared, to
make it come to a close as soon as possible."
"Hatoyame never tried to ehange his dee-
trine of liberalimm as he is a true and gemuine
liberalist from the blood."
"Hatoyamn had no alternative during the
war excent to retire to Karuizawe and do some
farming work there, beeause he was treated by
the militariats like a traitor to his country
and nobody wae .willing to finance his politi-
oal activities."
"Persunification of Political Parties" by unji
Ish11 1n January 1, 1946 Issue of "Jinbutsu yoron"
(Peraonal Review), p.3. It also says:
"As a liberelist, Hatoyama was foroed to
retire from the theater of active politios
during the war."
"ha toyama is loudly assailing th se groups
or the Diet membe s who formerly belonged to
Yokusankai and isgeika1 thet they should share
responsibility or the result of war. They are
shouting beok to hatoyame that during the war
he was as on-looker or war, a pacifist and be is
not qualified to talk anything about re-building
of new Japan."
"Ups and Downs with Men" by Hanraibo in February 1.
1948 Issue of Fokyo Jiho (rokyo fimes). This artiele
cites a chargo on myself:
"those who do not like atoyame blame that
during the war he was living u in Karuizawa
leading a luzy life of readIng and raraing - u
irresnonsible man and a ocward."

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.87)
-10-
."Round-Table Discussiem with Ratml M
 Hat oyame" in December , 1sss Issue et "Tage Meiamé
Shinpo" (Oriental Kecnomist), p.3l. Thie artiele -
printa that I stressed importanse of spert in sherestes
eduoation of the young and shows that I am a mon-milite-
rist in education.
áll these artioles agree ans vimdieate thet all throughemt
long years I have been a liberalist and an amti-militarists
and I heve lived in politioal obseurity during the war.
ta f Ler  Tahire T 
"iddle day" of November l946. showing that I m "me of the
few liberalists".
Lohiro Katoyame

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.87)
人
—-
APPANDIX A
THE CARINST PAAR
   3 X (1028)
hi 4o No. 
Granted 1sth. June, 1936.
6th. June, 1928.
(hief cocretery (no caling)
eorctary (sealed)
rime inister
irector of Bureau of
Legislntion (mealed)
Minister of oreign
inistor or .ome ffeiro
ffeire (signed)
(si nec)
Einister of rinance
-ialeser of rmy (slgned)
(signea)
inister of Navy
inistor of Justice
(signed)
(signed)
inister  ancation
ministor of voreatry
(aigred)
(sirned)
inistor o Comerce
Linister or communications
& industr, (eigned)
Minister of hailwayo

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
Arter due deliberations, me deem the propesed draft as
attached bereto for Urgons Imperial Ediet relesive to Amené-
ment of Law of Preseavation of Publie Grder applide jointly
by Winister of Hame Affeirs and Winister of Justiee ls ap-
propriate and hereby recomaend that it be approved at the
Cabinet eeting as applied. e further recomend that the
matter shall be referred to the rivy Counoils as it relates
to an Imperiel clot under artible 8 of the Imperial Consti-
tution.
DPaHLAL LDCRAT
Deto
In view of the urgent necessity, 1 heroby sanotion to be
promulgated, arter sutmission to tne rivy Councils, the amend-
ment of a purt or lae or resorvation of ublic -rder in ao-
cordance with clause 1 f rticle 8  the imperial constitu-
tion.
Imperial vignature
and -eal
countersignatures of
catinetinisters
No. of operial áict
braft of mondment as attched.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.90)
一
APPSNDD B
TANAKA CABINST ANL ASSASSINATION
 OENERAL CHANG TSO-LIN
fanaka Cabinet, 1927-1929, wae in'many cases was too mueh
misrepresented as a military cebinet sponeoring poliey of
acgresslon by force.
Ferhaps ohe reason was that the catinet waa heeded by
late varon ciiohi Lanaka, then an army geueral on remervo list
but Former war Linister ot Ja:anese Goverument during orld
Har l. rerhaps because e sont Je anese trojs to hantung.
China, 1n ay 1927.
rorhaps because his name mas often men-.
tioned in conneotion with the lebricated document known as
"faneka emorandum" wnich widely believed to be a guicing
prinoiple of the whole ro ramme of sa anese militery invasion
leacing ao to the ccifle  er.
Sut perhe s more accountabie i or such misrepresentation
was the death of coneral chanf fso-lin, then var Lord of an-
churiu. by exnlosion of his truln at railway junction in the
north of ukden tation ut mid-nit r June S. l9ze ihe
inoident led uo to s eventual reelgnatlon o fenaka cabinet
in July l929, leuvin impresslon that the cabinet has had some-
thin to co with tse unfortunate assaseination. the tollowing
is a part of cabinet pecurd or the inoident showing that it

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.90)
-  -
was an independent plot by a group of ofrieers of kmentung
Army carried out without the knceledge of Tokyo Govermment.
m May 20, 1929, nearly e year later sinee the explesion
at Mukden, Yoshinori Shirakmwa, then ser Einister, reported
to Premier ianeka to the following erroot.
"-hereas the incident ocurred within the jurisdi-
ction of wantung amay carrison causing various rumore,
careful investi ations wore ourried out relative to the
explesion et railwey junction of -vking-ukdon Line in
the north of ukeen -tation on June 4. l928. however.
result shows no evicenoe thut the Imperial ammy nor iss
ofricere nave anything to do with the ineident."
The report wus made obviously at the reguest of remier Tanaka.
although record of such request is miesine at present. rior
to this enjiro inoshita, then Governor f caantung Province.
sutaltted the, followine ro ort dated ay l. luss, to Premier
Tangka at bis request.
"vnereaa te exvl oslon  coneral cbans soLin'o
train n June 4, lass, ao it tosk place witnin mouth
Lanchurian ailway one. is an event or prime impertance
Internationally as vell as Tor protection uf Japunese
interests in uneluriu. the matter hae been rererred to
awantans rms und vith  dnehurlan ailway authorities
and careful investimaticns, ss reguestod, were cumucted
by ukden olice frice who reporus:

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.93)
4
(1) Personal effeets left by Chimese who were
dressed likely to be civilian saldiers of South :
Chine and who were killed by Japanese guards for
trespassine prohibited Zone, have given reason to
suspect that the explosion was a plot by Chinese
revolutionists.. investletions, lhowever, re-
vealed no evidunce to this effeot.
(2) .s there were rumore thut the incident wes
an lntri uo of Japunese "ronins", coth outside
and inside investicuticns were carried out fully
about Japanese in Manchurla listed ror, possible
dangerous action, however, they falled to find no
evicence of such fact. Letalled investigetions
on other directions ulse were in vain.
(3) No truth could te fond atout the rwaor that
the explosion was machineted by Chiness rmy."
ubviously in response vo chen crevailing ublic opinion
in Ja an which was declcouly asainst the catinet, remier
lanaka aguin on June 8. loes, ruguested var inictor shirakawa
to further investi, ate the case. -s no covy oi nis second
request is avalluble, it was presutably mace in rivete. ar
Minieter responced to the requess in an un-numbered conriden-
tial report dated June 1., lu29, as follows.
"with referenes to your requout of June , me wish
to report that when return or Goneral than so-lin to

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.89)
2
T
-88-
Makuden was made derinitely known, Chinese Military Palies
et Hukden asked Japanese Kilitary Poliee for permit to
put S~ guards and several military police-men between
hinyung station and Aoshutung Station. The matter was
referred to wantune army neadquarters..
"Üpon reccipt or request, stafr fricer Col. kawamote.
at his disoretion, uthorized chinese Lilitary Palice to
dispose guards under the land-bridge at railway junotion
of foking-wukden Line and South wanchurien Line, as it
has been custaery in tne past to pormit entry of Chineso
armed forces to -outh unohurlan hailway one for guarding
urpce..
"however, as such auth urieation to Chinese authori-
ties to disvose their urmed Loross within un important
point where mentun my is aireotly in charge of uard-
ing is to de regurdes.an improver in procedure, ita re-
sponsibillty ls ex eoter to be cerined in due course."
coting upon tnese ins ormation, resfer ranaka re nurted to the
hrone ee follms.
"aelative to the ex lceion f Uheas isolin's train
on June à last yeur, I uteuretand thut War minister had
grivately reportes decalis l tre cane as well as his
intontion uf mmintatnine military discipline and order
turouch aaministrative action fer minimizint erfect or
the ouse.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.90)
-  -
"In this respest, I have his recan't report that mers
shorough and detalled investigations of his army could
not unoover any trace of truth or evidence that his Army
or any of its offlcers have had to do with the eass.
"However, as railway junotion of Foking-ukden Lime
and South Mancnuriun Line is è point of importanee where
most strict currisonins 1s required, I made further ro-
quest how and why they permitted Chinee arwed forees to
enter the sone ane who issued the peralt. The report
autmitted ta me in thie regsrd disclused thet Col.
hawanoto. stair -fficer or Ewantung aray. issued the por-
mit in is omn  lscrotion in the alter-noon of June 3 of
last year as the roqucet I chinese outnorities, allowing.
thinese arwed forees to disoose under the Land-bricge at
railway junotion. 1 mish to call nim to account ror this
6otion.
"I bave recelved snotner ro cort frou sovernor of
mantung trovince stetin shat he made tavoctiratlons on
sources  varioue sus ccts and ruvore but falled to rind
any evidence on elsher Japanoce or Chinese side."
all these reoords convincs shat remler fanasn was hot a
purticimcant in the ex mlcelo. ner ne was even romerly laromoed
about the truth f the cese. ven ar Minlster hiuselr, very
probably, hed no knowled e about tae true story. the truth
was that it wes on inde endent une artitrary plot of swantung

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
-40
Army. #ithout knowing it, Tanake Cabinet honestly mede the
following statement to'the publio.
"Hespeoting to the explosion of General Ghang Tse
lin's train on June 4, 1928, at rallmay junetiom of
Poking- ukden.Line and South Lanohurlan Line 1n the north
of ukden stutio, both Japanose and chinoso authoritie
made joint n-the-spot inveatigations of the conditions
of the exploslon and its cauees. Both sides tried to
asoertain tne fact but in vain.
"as the inoicent has subeeguently provoked various
rusors, Jupanese covernnent conducted further investige-.
tins througs wantung rmy. wantung rovineial Govern-
ment and ther cnoancls, failin however, to reveal any
findines of t e feot wor vinuication of ruore. It is to
be admitted that Awantun ray direetly in eherge of
guarding the one chould te held responsible for care-
lessly permitting chinese ermed forces at their request
to dispose et an important voint. as it deserves sovere .
reproof, due eotion will be tuken for calling persone com-
cerned to account for negligence of duty."
Further private investigations by lanaka Cabinet later disolosed
the truth and, astounded at the rindine. Promier Tanake pain-
fully reported to the Throne in privato the truth deeply
apologizing for his previous false report ee follous.
"I feel greatly numilated in hereby reporting that
Lukden explcsion of whioh 1 had previously reported to

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.93)
4
7
-41
the Throne nos has been discovered by sebeequent private
investigations as a plot by a auall group of men headed
by staff frioor Col. Kawamoto of Kwantung my.
"although due aotion is neceasary to maintain the
discipline und order of the army. I am deeply ooncerned
over the poesible unfavorable erfoet of the inoident to
the nation if the truth is disclosed to the public in
course of managecent of the affair. It is my wish to 
maintein them without provoking unfavorable reactions.
"since the matter is of serious imsortance for the
future o the army, 1 have fully taken it un with Chier
of the ceneral taff, of  ilitary dueation and Pield
Larsnals of the ray who all agreed to suoh polioy of the
munscement or the affair."
Ihus, on July 2. loze, lanaka tabinet took the conseguonce of
false reportine to the inrone of wukcen incidont by tendering
resi: nation to te  eror.
-s illuetrated ia the above cuse. it should be remembered
that so-called "faneke ro rawe" wus not a progranase or Tanake
Cabinet itself. but a programme plenned and drafted indepen-
dently by eroup of persons other than fanaka tabinet when
Tanake was in power and without the knowleage of the latter.
as Tanaka haprened to be an rmy veneral and remier. aggressive
milituristic policy particularly of Amantune rmy has been
widely mioropresented us "ianaka
rocranme".

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.91)
PPANLIX C
IN Y JOAG BUT NI SUHMITTD TO LA BY SHIDHARA CABINNT
L    
rertainine to the vesticonaire of Lohiro lhatovame
1.
"Visage or the urld"
Inis book was cublished in march, 19s6. It was a record
of pereonal experiences during latoyama'a 7 month trin in
-urope and uerica fram July, 197 to reb., 193e. ihe contente
are a daily recorc or imorecsions about pecoles, sceneries.
booke, etc. which he came sorusa curing the trip and we. the
Jepanese overnment, do mot think the book is of much import-
ance as to nocessitate tc ap licati on of your Lemorandum.
in this bock. hat yase did not a rove unconditionally Nazism nor
Fascism. nor cid approbate unroseryedly hitler or  usolini.
e find in this bouk no reason why he should be branded as a
militarist or elicose-nationalist.
it is Hatoyama's fault that he did u.s montion this book
(he wrote also some others) in the questionnaire. sut, ae this
book is a dally record of impressions of his tri, and not of
epecial impertance from the view-point or his qualirioation to
memberebip aud as we do not think him maliciuus when he left

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.90)
● 4-
out thie book from the uestionnaire, 1t should be too eeme
in the opinion of the Japenese sovernment, to rogard him guilty
for the omission as "ooucealment of fact under crimial pre
visione, althouh it is a watter to be left to the Court for
final judgemont.
2.
o-called rvoto Inzerial University caca
shen Matoyama was 1nister of £duoat1on (1931-1954). he
diemiseed fro: profeseorship in may las3 Koshin lakikawe, pro-
fessor or the ssculty of Law, kyoto Laperiul University. not
waiting for the apolicetion of the Preeident of the Univereitys
he reesons or te aetion vore that man entortained Markion
1deus, lectured thum freely to students, publishec books whioh
were banned frn sale us dietribution ror too rudical contents.
In protest to suot cississal ue de rivation of ecademio uuton-
omy and frecc, nuster or roressure and assistant professore
of the raculty or ar tendereo resignatlone This was the so
called yoto imperil niveraity case anó atoe was the
respunsible person  ecucation as lnister of ducation.
More precisely the reasons o the dismissal were that
idees of fakisawa, as extreceed in his " eaders of Criminal
Law", "Loctures on wrininal Law" und "Ireatises on criminal
Law" in the collectlon f Legal tudies were those of Marxian
theory in that he advoceted that decresse und extinction of
orimes whioh criminel iaw intends could nvt be ho ed for except
by revolutionary chango of econumicel construction of eociety.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
4
thus ignoring the subjectivity of human moralitys that these
his basic ideas were more olearly ezpressed in his tremsises
on eriminal ohapters in asserting, for example, insurreetion
is a "punishmont when it faile in its attempt, but sublime in
1ts motive" - a desoription which disturbs' the individual panal
sonse and the social order; that his idea on adultery and mur-
der or ascendant relatives oumpletely ignoree good custom and
morality among the peoplej and that, in short, his theories
and the contents of his books were agaiaat public welfare and
social order, haruful to gocd custou and morality of the people
and were in violatlon of the purport of the First artiele of
the -rdinence of the University aimine at "oultivation of perso-
nal character and fosterlng of nati nal thought", with the
conclusion, in the opinion of the then ministeriel authoritios.
that it was a great impedimant for educational pur ose to have
him remaininmt in professorship. Thus, his dismissal wes orderd.
at that time. resident konishi of Kyoto Imperial Univer-
sity was firet instructed by the minioterial authorities to
take an action on professorial imnrudence of Lakikawa but
honishi felled to response, while, on the other hand. professore
and ussistant professcrs of the faoulty united in a Joint pro-
test against such ministerial measure. fhus ministerial au-
thorities were otllged to cirectly order the dismissal of
lakikawa without the a plication of she fresident.
The justification or the Linisterial action and oonsequent

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
1
Y
--
responsibility on the part of Hatogeme, however, mhemld met
be judged by the monse of today, but should be judged in she
light of the internal ciroumstanee then existing. Is thess
days, the Law of Preservatin of ublie vrder (whether it ms
right or wrong) was in full force. y thought and conduet
to tring about changes in the nationel constitution wms rigialy
supervised. Specially after the anohurian Incident, mmtional
ideas were acvocated throughcut the country and morality was
emphatically claimed upon, so that such theories and ideas as
enterteived by Takikawe were not cenerally nocepteble. Partf-
oularly it wes considered most improper and undesirable thatt
they wore allowed to be lectured as an authoritative theory
fras the chair of an univereity.
in view of such circumstances of those days. in the opin-
ion of the Ja anese vovernment, it wuld not be proper to
oonolude that utoyamo coes under the purview.of the emo
rundum as "a person who pursecutod advocator of anti-militarim"
for the sole reeson trat atoyama held a respensible position
in the affair. but, ocinions may differ if it should be judged
onl fro fact ectually occurred, es in the case of exelusion
fram putlio offices of soocial police-men, irrespective of the
circumstances. (ttaohed translation of Reesons of Dismiseal
 of lakikara ea steted in officlal ecord of Japanese Govermment
Lepartment of cucation eccopoanied by eport on Theories of
Tekikawa und Contents of hie Books)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.89)
4
7
RASUNS  DIHISBAL O TAKAVA AS TATED
IN REICIAL REC ORD O DRPARTTENT O IDIGAPION
The said man was appointed assistant professor oaf the
Ayoto Imperial University in September 19le, was given cbair
of Criminal iaw and code or Fenal Procedure in ugust l919.
appointed professur in apr11 l924 and held same ohair to date.
H1s thougt showed trudual lefitist leanine Hot only lee-
tured his such thought freely to studenta, he published with-
out impunity suo! books as were prohibited from sale and dis-
tribution for too racical contcnts. as to his thooriem and
the costents or hie putlications, soe report as per attaohed.
.s radicul thought is boing easily propagated recently
among students und intellectuols csusing serious ciroumstancesr.
national unity is beinr reguired for its prevention. Radical-
iat troutles have occu red ohe after another subsequent to the
affeir of yoto inperiul University. Luny cases were reported
and great humber f stu onts wero prosecuted, accused or c
pelled to be samned out  tue University. fhe situatlon in
so urgent that the wniversit, authorities now s ould devote
ite utmost to ruvent such soourences and to manage them pro
porly.
The proressore i of un niversity is requosted to use
his endeuvour 1or discipline of personal chareoter and fostor
ing of national thought on the urt of the youngsters as dire-

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
eted in the urdinanes of the University. If a professer emter-
tains a thought contradiotory to his duty, teaehes is so she
youngeters or publishes it, he should be removed from his pess
as an university profcssor. It is unexousable that the maid
person not only entertuins radical thought but openly publishes
and teaches suoh thought as above mentioned. aocordingly. we
deem it necessury to remove him from bis post as epplied far.
as it is a treut im oci ent for educational purpose to have
tim remainine in the profeseorshin.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.90)
4
DEPARTMENT  UCTI
Beport n The Theortea of Tkiu
and Contant_of Hik
1. s judgod fras his fundamental thought o criminal law
as expressed in his various works, Takikawe entertains Marxian
idees that the final eim of oriminal law to reduce and extin-
mash crimes cunnst e hopec for except ty revolutionary change
of econanical construotion of socloty and thus he systematizes
and describee his theories entirely ignoring the.subjectivity
of human morulity. lo guote his fundamental idea on criminal
law:
"crimes are sams as sickness, poverty. suicide,
unemloyment, rotitatin, te. snd ere naturel phenomon
whioh come fro: the cefects or social crder. Crimes ean-
not be decreased ner uxtin uishe y the virtue of penalty.
The basie condition to cobat cries is in the revolution-
ury reroration f vconmlcal conatructlon of soolety.
The theory of aani otence of penalty is simoly the most
conservatlve and renctiomary ldea." (l, "icotures on
(riminal iaw". cvised dition)
bus. accordine to his ideus, prerequisite is "the cevolution-
ery reformation of economicel construction of society". To
quoto ageins
"It is imsossible to decrease or extinguisn orimes
by the virtue I penulty. its prurequlsite is to const-
ruet a society without penalty. 1 tell you. therefore.
to amancipute cri inals fro enalty is to emancipate
buuan beings from crimes." (p.l96. "meadere  criminal
Law")
io quote also:
"Tne basic nucleus of cantating crimes is rerormation

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.93)
4
一40-
of cooial crder. The social reforation by lewful mes-
sures is simply a metter of cayins. not preotical. Se
to combat crimes by the virtue of panalty or poliee-pm-
imiment is an empty theory." (p.37, "Lectures on Crimimal
Law", the First Ldition)
Thus he advocated that the rotormation of soeial and sconomi-
oel conatruotion of society ls prereguisite and his 1dea of
reformation is not a eradual one but a revolutionary one as
evidently ehown on p.l57, "Readsrs of Criminal Law". which
compares cenal wousures with refornation of basio conetruetion
of eooioty as follows.
"ihe exedution of old ponal weasuree ohiefly aims
at thefts but the thefts sre inoreasing instead of de-
cressing. -s lons us busic organlzation of society is
not rerommed, cecreuse of thorts and coneequently of the
whole crimes cannst so roped ror."
cuch his wosle clepssition sf thou ht is further indioated in
ap roving revolutionist with a touch of admiration. He etates:
"ihe conducss of revolutlonist aim at destruction
or prement moclal rdor favoring only minority and at
cultivation of living or the injured majority. There is
an wnsurmountable barrier betwoen such conduct of the
revolutionist snd the preseut social organization. Natu-
rally. hie conducts agree with the supreme human morelity
but are contrary to the reusone of the time. hie head
1s olwaye acorned with a thorny crown." (p.l . "Lectures
on criminal law". evised dition)
This idea of his is eloquently expreesed in e few words quoted
in the preceding age that "the social reformation by lawful
measures is simply e metter or sayins, not practical" and he
desoribes tho kind of rerormed sooiety he advocates as foll ows.
(p.l95, " eaders of Criminal Law")
"fhere is established in the prison a priuciple that
'tuose who do not work canuot eat'. they are dressed in

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.94)
.- 80 -
same clothes, eat same food and sleep in sams roum for
same houra. The prison is likely to be an ideal sesiety.
But the actual sooiety around it is quite differently
organized. So it will be vain if a prisoner, even be is
treined by the virtue of penalty, end now swoare to come
back to his ccmmunity, returns from where 'those who de
not wurt cunnot eat' to where those who work are confront-
eu with those who do not work. To those who aro trained
in the prieon by eduoation penalty. the world where they
should belong is a world where the prinoiple same as the
prison of 'thoso who do not work cannot eat' governs by
whioh they oan live. Deplorably the aotual society is
not e society like that."
rurther he says on p.7 - 6. "oadors of Criminal Law":
"The traite of the lans of every wation vary with
its econmical structure. In so far ae the basio struo-
ture of the nations is not the same, the eseenoe of the
law or the aim which the law is to sorve in the mainte-
nunce of public peace end prder is quite different, even
though the fomulities of the laws or the passages of the
provisions os t e laws are one and the same. Lo under
stand oorrectly tis Ja anoue Laws, you must not ignore
the presont state of things of society in Japan, that is.
a capitalistic ssciuty whlol is now tracing a downward
trend of colla ee fr an imperielistio stage tnrouhout
the vrle."
gain e states on posa, "Lecturus on Griuinel Law". Novised
dition
"Lawe cepend u on te ccon cical situation of socie-
ty. it is a part of the whole upper buildinw built upon
the econanlcal construction of soolcty."
This showe that he interprots lewe as simply a pert of the
upper institution built upon, und regulated by, the economioal
order of sooiety. Tnis is evidently a arxian doctrine.
acoording to hie " eaders of Criminal saw", there have
been several changes in criminal legislatures since the begin-
ning or the Weij1 ra. to desoribes these changes as from
Temporary Oriminal ogulation, New utline or Criminal Law and

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.92)
-81-
to present Criminal Law and lastly to the mew Criminel Lem as
results of prcceeses of econamicel development as frem feusal
sconomio systan to capitalistio stege of free campetition, them
to the senich of the capitaliatio munopoly. nom turning dewm-
wards to the collupsin, process of capiteliam. This indieates
that he rallows a historical materielistio view-point of Marxiem.
(pp.12 - 16, "ieaders of criminul Law") te also says:
"ohat kind of people commits arimbies in the present
sooiety is demonstrativoly answered in a utudy that orimes
are cmuaitted mostly by proletariat or the people of the
lower elasees of scciety. Inversely speaking. those who
are inrlicted with damages by comission of orimes are
of t e bourgeolsie classes. Now readers will know elear-
ly who is to be protooted by the lawe and who is to be
treined by penalty." (p.l94, "eaders of Criminal Law")
Here he asserts clase-feuling of Criminal Law, auggeating that
the law protects ouly the propertied classes. he notioe the
same intention of his on pp.46 - 47, "Lectures on Criminal
Law". ovised -dition:
"Thou. h the essence of tho law is to proteot ohiefly
the interests of a certain class in the society, its intor
pretation should be levoloped along the line to proteet
the interests of the majority. uny exposition should not
be allowed to exist as a scial sclence if it ignores the
interests of the majority."
2. The above-mentioned traits of iccas of fakikana are more
manifostly shown in his treaties on speoific subjeot of Crimi-
nal law. It will sufrice here to illustrate two or three
6pe01nens.
1NSUR.LCLv
"The aim of insurreotlon is to destroy the order of
the nation. It is what any government is most afreid of
and what they need to op ress. ut, the motive of thoso

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.94)
- 8 -
they undertake to destrey the order of seesety fer esm
strueting è happier scciety of meakind. As viewed fme
the result, if it results in a sussess, they displess the
ruling alass and substitute them. Bresdly speakinge they
are not punished beesuse their motive or behavior ls wrenge
but simply bocause they fail in thir attempt." (p. las.
"Headers of Criminal Lew")
This is u description whioh slaokens the sense of morality emd
disturte the peace and order of sooiety, as it denotes thas
motive of insurrection as "sublime" though it is meoussd if is
fails in its attempt.
ALULAARY
"ahiohever man or woman breaks their faith of
matrimony. the responsitility is same. The principle
of sex equality is the logical consequenee of matrimony.
Wamen have been economically and aceordingly legally
subordinate to men. This sex relation is refleeted on
matrimony. atrimony is a harmonious union in formmlity
but essentially is a atruggle between man and woman, a
miniature of social struggle in the femily between husband
reprosonting the ruling class aud wife representing the
ruled aless. The natural outcome of the contention is
adultery. The legislation to punteh the edultery on the
part of wife only ie a rull indication of eomplete tri-
umph of the ruling class." (pp. 31 - 32, "Treatise on
Criminal Law" in Collection or Legal Studies, Vol. 28)
It is a matrimouial view based on the Warxian theory of elass-
struggle whioh dostroys good habits and custons in Japen.
"To punish this crime heavily is a remnent or foudel-
ism in whion treason against the patriaroh was considered
the worat orime. fhis idee iteelf must got through sooial
oriticiem. To require partioular respect simply because
ascendants are ascendunts is a rerlection of patriarenisn.
as mombers of the family are cetting out of the coutrol-
ling power of the head of the family and incorporated
into the oonstituent of society, suoh an ides is redually
losing its eround. it is ncthing out an anaobroniem to

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.91)
-5 -
impose a heavy enalty with the exeuse to maintmim she
so-ealled good manners and habits of mcciety." (ps9s.
"Treaties on Criminal Law" and P.4u0. "Treaties cm Cri-
minal Law" in Colleotion of Legal Studies, Vol. ef)
U. fhese are extracts from Tskikawe'e "Readore of Criminel
Luw", Hovised dition, "Locturee on Criminal Law" and other
books. In the light of above analyeis, it shall be conoluded
that his theuries ann c tents of his books are to be regarded
as to disburt the public peace and order and destroy good
habits und custons or the people in Japan. -lso his ideas are
contrary to the pur ort of the First Artiole of the Ordinance
of the University based unen the cultivetion of personal cher-
acter and fosteriny sr national thought.
First rticle or the ricinance of the University provides:
"The ol joot of the University is to teach theories
and applicatlond of science userul to the nation and study
them to proruncity sis in at the cultivation of peraonal
character end . setorln or natlonal thought."
...0.0...

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.91)
-  -
APPRNDLX D
This 369 page book was published 1n Maroh 193a through
Chuoh Kohron She (Central Raview Publishing Co.) of Tokyo as
publishera and distributors. fhe book was dedicated to my
Late father, Dr. Kazuo atoyama, who died on otober 3, l911
and who auvised me, rirst mhen 1 graduated from the oollego
and secondly fras ueuth bed, to go abroad for broadening my
knowledge and experionce. as I have stated in the "Foreword"
of the book, I did not oveerve this my father's last injuno-
tlons for nearly su yeure and it can to said that my trip to
-urope and U.. 1n l937-1938 wes partly motivated by this old
memory of my father.
 The book is the usual ulary of a Ioreign trip with e ran-
dom account of cally imoreselons end momos, aa my publiaber
has remarked in "Prefece" or the book as rollows.
"In the evotine, Lutoyana returned fron aoroad, I
found at his hu in Lokyu three diury booke takun out
of his travelling trunks morupulouely filled, even with
ccoasional inmerted writings. by letters as sull as
hole in.a needle. road and fair observations. vioh
tastefulnoss in stylo. 1 thougnt they were too  ood to
be e private reoord. 1 told aim to putlish it and he
ousonted."
So mueh so is the nature of the book. lhis feuture is further
indioated in she followina branslation of tre conteats of the
book, although they wure odited ty the publishurs and rather

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.87)
7
-5
journalistioally headed in many cases.
July 18, 1937 - February 1. 1928
CHAPTR 1
FRAN XOBE TO BERLIN (PP. 1  BB)
A Sight in Shanghai before the Ineident ....
. Glance in Singapore .... Side-trip in Sumatra
.... Sad nows of Leath of Sakutaro Koizumi ....
suez Canal .... The sun Set on the horizon ....
Moditerranean Sen .... Wet with longing Japanese
ChaPr 2
BRLIN (P 26  41)
7-uth. Year unnivorsary .... First News on Inter
national Politios .... Nazi Labor Polioy - Lot
People sork with Joy .... Levelopments in China
worring me .... enistribution of aw Materiale -
-gonda at ton rest League tonference
ChatTad 3
(pp. 42- 7-1
uter-line of .ranco .... Features of Frenoh
Politics end unitions Doal .... Speaking at
Congrese League Conference .... A Stroll in
Fountainebellear .... Frenon Financial Polioy
- Visiting antheon .... Fronoh Politiciens
•... Conference Clocos - News about Russia
CHa 4
N1  (p. 71 - 8)
Neaurenburg - leuping on Train .... Hitlor-Yugend
hass keeting .... Interviewed by rinco Chichibu

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.88)
2
- 56-
CHAPTER 5 VINNA - BUDAPT - BAN (PP. 81 - 100)
Some Hints for Solution of Japan-Chine Came
.... Proment Conditions in austria - Their
Parliamentary yatom .... Danube under the
moon - hungary vrooding over her wronge ....
Four bays in Lountains .... A Night in orn
olitios in iss
CHA 
Ch F. LIN (p. 101 - 12)
Sose ngles of Jepan-German Helation ....
Mussolini visiting erlin .... weloe meeting
For ussolint - neeches of the Big Two ....
Matanabe says Haxi helped Germany .... German
ducational yatem of Youth, Politioal Prisoners
and orksen
ChaPfEn 7
  ( 121 - 137)
Talk with cchacht - ebuilder of Nezi Finance
.... Views of ajor veneral -shime - Joonsor of
anti-t cunism -grement .... Cerman New Criminal
Law and Four-yoar industrial lan .... Dinner
Party or Japan-German Jcciety .... dearing
Massaore at sushung. vhina - utrages by Chinese
soldiers
Ch  8 N Th HhIN (. 138 -156)
Roade and Industrles - what Groat Labor hows ....
Arupp' Plant mployins 9,D ... Bon Univer

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.87)
4
—87-
sity and Deethoven's House .... Walk along the
Rhine - Song of Lohrelye .... Baok to Berllin
.... ocepted Netional snvoy
CHaPTR 9 AHAIVING NGLAND (p9. 157 - 101)
Anti-Japanese Fecling in London .... dvised
Aonoye by Cable .... Visit to British Parlia-
ment - eeoh by den .... xohanging Views with
ambaseacor Yoshida on ritish Polioy ....
Sight-seeing in diuburgh .... autumn in Sootland
.... laylng dolf at wurld's sest Green
    1    N (. 182 - )
ttitude of London usinese-men towerd Japan
.. London fower mbolizing pritish history
... Garvin's Views on Foreien loioy ....
Public -pinions tomard Jupan .... Lessone of
Lducation at mbrid e .... rouchins ords of
Baldwin .... isglJpanese Cooperation
impossible 7
0H11
 11.1Y (p0. 24- 219)
Talk with mbeseador u imura in Paris ....
Spirit of Retuilding Res oman mvire ....
Interview with useolini .... ld city of
enaissance and cenic eauty or alps
12
1( 222)
"G" Contest in serlin - hearing about Ja punese

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.87)
- 58-
Fighting in Chine .... Yamons Lendon Fog - Talks
with Different People .... Interview with British
Premier and Foreign Kinister .... Didding Fare-
woll to London
Cha T 13 N1 1  (pp. 236 - 249)
nnuel nnivorsury of Ja an-German greement
.... -conomio -ducation of Naz1 - Listening to
noppror .... dermen Four-Year soonomic Flan
Che Toa 14
11 MITLA (Pp. 250 - 26)
treined Look - ecisive xpressions ....
rukuda, ell-known Japanese "Go" playor, visit-
ing berlin .... Japan-Garman criendahip through
"Co" .... -stablishmonts of litler Yugend
Ch  15
 Y (201- 276)
urossing the tluntic .... landing on ths nti-
Japanese  nstration Iy by comunists ....
ipples of anney inoident .... ounding nti-
Jupanese elinge
ChaT 16
1(277293
arriving ashington, .. . visiting Yale
University -  late ather's lms ater ...
cack to kew York . rrived hicago . rand
vanyon
Ch.1 17
t os ngels - vity  ovies .... everal bays

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.89)
4
- 59.-
at Lel Monte .... To San Franeisoo .... Last
Night on American Continent - Full of Feelings
C 18 L  N TH P10 (. 311 - 18)
Some shoughts fran Forelgn Obsurvations (for Tokyo
Nicni Liohi and Jsake ainich1 Shinbun)
(pp. 319  331)
Patriotima is casis cr the Nation (a adio ddress
through J on ebruary 7, 1938) ...... ( 33 - 340)
Improssions of uropeen oliticians (for "Chuoh
hohron" or "Contrel eview") .......... (p. 34l - 39)
"onnoht und ure ory (for "naizo" or "econstruction")
(. 36- 369)
Following extrects on politioul topies fran various chaoters
of the book will shhow the way they are written and some of the
happenings during the tri zuoh us requost fron then Premier
aonoye to appoint me as a national envoy.
(1) "aboard  otsd. July 26, 1937.
uw moviee of
American Civil ar in which hirley remple appears. Very inter-
eeting. Particularly. part of bruham sineoln mas aupealing.
The pleture impressed me that a real stutemanshi, should be
born out or justico und love." (p.?)
(2) Colbo. mugust 5. eturned to shl: at S. ..
Streete and houses in Colabo are as clean and es bemutiful
as any other oities sd towns f srltish colonies. souldn't
mee any flies and mosqultos. pritish polioy an cars to place

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
- 40 
more weight in improving standard of living of the matives
than anything else. No colonization can be suecessful withest
1t. I should say there is no comparison between the streess
and houses in Formosa or norea.
"Ideal of politics must be something brond and somothing
huan and sostis to serve to improve welfare ot mankind in
general. . or exanple, Bella Bay, Sumatra, is noted for it
flies. 1 re euter n y way here ship's deok was just full of
falllng rlies, but today I can't see any. fhis is a real olvi-
lization. to oxtond it to ali manxind on earth ia the ideal
of politlos." (pp. 15 - 16)
(3) "bard otsda. ugust 6. Lark surface of the ea
looks to oxtand to an eteruity. 1 am told that here poople
often jump into the pcean to kill themselves. I feel 1 can
understand it. ve must think over this etornity, families and
mankind and work for an uoiversel hop ineme." (p.1?)
(4) "London. vetober 2. Called on mbessader Yoshida.
after conierrint with  is, sent rollowing cable to honoye.
" lease se my cable to Foreien Minlster from
Merlin. rrived here yesterday. Saw bassador
Yoshidu. Yoshida knowe similer messare dated lsth.
to your ut ost to reaoh understanding wlth america
and -nelend. elieve.such understandin very
nossible. instruotions desired. hother or not
accepti invitation to Nine-rower treaty Con-
rerence, full explanation of reasenn to ull  owers
ouncernea very advisable. s observed from here
why not send delegates to Wine- ower freaty con-
ference and olarify before the world Japan's
osition ? wquest serious cunsideretion."

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.93)
 6 -
Last nighs I thought over and over again this problem d 
not holp fron sending above message." (p.lsl)
(5) "London. votober 2u. Arakawa (Japamese Finanee Cammie-
sioner) told me there 1s no reason that will endanger the re-
lationahi, betwoen Jupan and ngland. ie emphasized the both
sides should Eat celm and said at least ngland is calm. I
told him in the usual way that we should work for the univermal
welfare and improvement of standard of living of wankind and,
if the etandard of living in China improves, Japan's trade with her
will be benerited too. rakame said many nglishmen share
th1s v10w." (pp 161 - 162)
(6) "London. -ctober £l. e should loarn good points of
others, of course, but should not simply copy them as condi-
tiona very acoording to countrios. Cannot think of traneplant-
1n€ Fasc1." (.163)
(7) "London. -ctober Se. Visited London fower. Felt as if
I were living in the dark age or British despotism and terrorimm.
But, corgeous exhibits in the foreground of the fower inolud-
ing those used For Noyal Coronation imprese the si nt-seere with
the happy deys of the pritish people sinoe constitutional go
ermment. So long as London Tower stands in the midst of London.
Britiah peosle will never desert parlimmentarianism. Dreadrul
is politics by foroe." (p.186)
(S) "London. Hovember 7. Woote u letter to eijun ndo.
Tokyo:

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
- -
"How hard is Germany trying to eoms to an agreememt
with sngland is socething beyond imaginations Japam
dcesn't know about it. She juet flies straight
shead. She knows nothing but anti-Britist. When
will world's statesmek begin to think about humen
welfare as a whole Y I know at least England is
not after this ideel for the moment. They are to
be blamed for olosing unoultivated oolonies, thus
giving blows to Japan's trade. But, I am aure that
British can underatand that, if we work together
for improving standard of living of 40u, v0, 050
Chinese populace, coth countriee get the benofit.
Japanese should understand that Japan gete more
benerit than british out of it es Japan is right
next door to China." (p.21)
(9) " aris. Novexder .. ongland cares for her investments
in Chins and peaoe in Shengha1 more than anything eles. Both
anti-urltish and sub-üritish are vrong. I find no reason why
we cannot sit on a friondly tuble and disouss theso two pointe
on equal terms. ungland is feelins military pressure from
Tri-Bower ilitary allianco of Japan, Cormany end Italy. Japan,
on the other hand. is reuling econgic pressure fron anti-
Jupanese &ttitude of n land and her colonies. Both have their
vulnerability. Ir so, it loons both countries can reach to an
agreement through dipluatic chunnel.
".s widely known, uritish stand is not so strong in ro-
Gurd to North Chine. I wisn to snow more conoretely what Japan
wants to do in horth China. 1 um tired or vegue. big talks
without thorougn study of things. Heally I hope China Incident
will oome to an end as soon us possible in the light of Japan's
roreign relations including soviet.
"it is all right to have a bis idea, but we must aot oare-

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.93)
- 6-
fully. why not let China find her position to lay down her
arms 7 Isn't it foolhardy to know nothing but juat to advanes
until Chiang comes out with a white flag ? And, it is an im-
possibility. There will be only one chance for Chiang to lay
down arma. That is when U. and Britain advise Chiang to do
so cronping off their sunport. way ror sorld's peace will be
paved if Japan. uritain, moriou, Germany and Italy work togo.
ther in exploiting the netural resources in China. Interne-
tional loan to China is ne thing. oonomio coneiderations
must come first. whatever the foruality is, Japanese politi-
oal purties should join. in crawing up a natlonal policy which
we can pronounce: to the whole world." (pp. 2u4 - 28)
(1v) "London. Noveaber 24. Sent this morning following cable
to J.onoye.
"Saw Yestorday British Premier and Foreign Minister.
No unti-Jupanose feeli.s among British Government. "ill-
ing to cooporate with Ja an as bofore. British cooper-
etion in post-war cconamic rehabilitatlon on.equel terms
very importent. roper guidance strongly desired not to
asgravato anti-urivish movement." (p. 23s)
(11) "London. secomber 4. eceived in the evenin newe from
arakawa that tritish leuliue towara Ju an is improvins which
pleased me reat coul. lso reccived letter from ando in Japan
about anti-uritish recling among Jupanese people. erlously
hope that it will not co too far." (p.255)

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
(12) "New York. Decomter 17. Though how mueh wo pese warrlemé»
ly to Angland and friendly to U.S.. it will be extremaly aif-
fioult to sever their relatians. If Japan fails in solving
Chine problem, in taking test poseible measure for establishims
peace in the Far cast for rooting out Communimm and for impror-
Ine humen welfare es a whole, she will step in a seriously
critical stege:" (p.271)
(13) "Now York. Lecember 18. rter talking with Er, Hiokman,
President of merioan sow society, deeply felt this kind of
talk and ussociation is very eesential in the mutual under-
standing betweon merion and Japan." (p.271)
(14) "New York. vecember 2l. 1 playod "go" with seven amori-
cans. They looked to have absolutely no anti-Japanese feelins.
Thanks to oultural works." (p.275)
(15) "ashington. December 22. round mbassador aito rather
calm, easy end optimictic saout fruture. e was only hoping
Japanese Government would not run orf the rails. Everybody
shares h1s hope." (p.273)
(16) "Lel Mante. January l0, 1938. hearty hope is that Japan
can unite her public ovinion. Then, roreign powers would have
a thorough understanding or the situation like r. bend. Thus,
real peace in the Far sast would be restored as quiokly as
possible." (p.3u3)
(17) rom Jaizo. "Fascism is not exporteble gocds. It does
 not fit sa an. but it would not be a mistake to import his

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.88)
4
- 66 -
(Mnssalini's) hard working into Japan." (p.Sas)
(18) "Shanghe1. July 22. Found whole tomn vory quiet. Glad
that hanghat is not so much affeoted by the trouble in Worth
China. It is hopeful thet buth sides are trying to avert the
effect ot the trouble." (.3)
(19) "ortsaid. -ugust 14. Meard from Japanese Coneul about
yame inoident in hanghai. ow will it develop is a tig eon-
cern to me." (p.zz)
(2) "erlin. ugust 19. eard about conditions in Nonking
and -hanghai.
megan to reel uneesiness." (p.27)
(21)
) "erlin.
ust . These dys oneern to me is that
China ineident is now a ruading over and becanine more and
more serlous day arter duy." (.3)
(22) "erlin.  etoter . rslked to Lirectore of eiche Bank
that at tee beeinnlss wo pon nat no thougat of fighting war with
China. qustins stories  ar inister Sugiyama and Finance
Minister Geya at rivy ciis meetin on July 14 end also
conversations i ave
Itn chinese friends in ohanghei.
They seid they can fully whde retend the situetion. 1 think
any falr-minded ereon will cave a similer knomlooge or under-
n
standin about the siouatien." (p.ls)
(s) "verlin. vetober . vo tolo tat Jaanese vovernment
1s sondiue mational euvoys cbr ad. hat ror ? is it the best
measure ?
"Intrinsically Ja anese dovern ent coes not know hon to

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.89)
4.
- 66-
use a man for this kind of job. marsiculerly ee with the
present case. I was almost cabling to Konoye to advise, bus
gave it up es envoys were leaving soon.
"ahet 1s the plan f Japanese Government after the war
in rogare to China ? There are lots of other probleme. Do
they think we .can convince other peoples and governments of
the world without aneworins these problems ? It will be a
shame if we vaguely talk why we sent troops to China. it will
be simply to repeut the same titter ex erience of Count labayeme
who was sent to merics sore years ago as e national envoy."
(po. 116 -117)
(24) " enigelhrr. -otober 12. Called up Jacanese abassy
as their tele hone eesure wes leit on my desk. was told thoy
received lons meseave or me rrom  reln rfloe in fokyo eok-
ing e, while i w in urose, to et in touch with various
quurters lucludin: overnrents re presentatives to let them un-
derstand Jaoan'e "ruir vosition". I thou ht I better think
it over tef ore ansverine thls cacle." (o. 144 - las)
(25) "sorl1. etote 13.
eceived cubles from y wife and
"akeo. both urrlny e to cable buon to Jo anese Government
acceptins the poet of national envoy. ll right. vill answer
tomorrow afte talkl with Ja anese bessad er." (.ls)
(26) "berlin. ot ber l0. rter cosversetlons with abas
secor -ushakoji. sent followtag cable to I orelgn -inister.
1oky0.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
4
-67-
"Acoopted your cable request. Have tried to eam
vince various quarters getting in aontaot to understand
our position. #ill do so in future. To talk in cmerete
way most important to let meriea and England underetand
our position as to where Japan will stop military opere-
tions although wuch line may dirfer under changing eiroum-
stanee, what will Japen ask China after war and extent of
cooperation Japan wants to usk other powers." (pp. 153-
154)
(27) "London. Jotober 19. uno. London Manager of Yokohame
pecle Hank, tolc me that he was. asked by his British friende
following questions.
1.
"here und on whnt line will Japan atop her military
operation ?
2.
whut coos Ja an want to co with North China and
Shenenai ?
30
will Jeven ask reoarations of China ?
4.
Wby does not Japan observe international treaties ?
These questions ure only notural, That is why I sent a cable
advising our Government to talk to Amerioa and England sith
susotaing conerete." (o.159)
(28) "serlin. vetober 1. ead on board S. Potsdam on the
way here predrick chuman's "uitler and The Nazi Lictaborship"
lcaned to me by r. uehiro und ae I romembered several pass-
ages of the bouk illustratinr five or six instancos vut of
severel hunereds of utroge ous raids mace by storm troupers
of a. into privute hoses of oomosition members. I mede in-
quiries about them. It looks thie ls not hup eninr now in
vermany. chuman's descri tions were for 1953 relating to
camuniets.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.88)
2
-0-
"I heard before that Nezi Government is monding greet
many of political prisoners to concentration campa. lso
Cchuman hes desoribed in his book that Prussion Government
announoed in July 1933 that there were at that time 18, 000
political prisonors. I also made inquiries in regard to this
aspect. Their nwaber, however, appears to be likely mueh loss
now. but, aume obsurvere deny it. iney suy capitul punisbment
has rather sh Jan un inureace as compared with two or three
years ugo. inle is why i euy it ap eurs to be likely loss."
(pp. 112-113)
(29) "Paris. contember 7. Very likely 1.vo0 year old Frenoh
oivilization makes it possitle for strungurs to know something
about true valuo ur curis cnly as day gs by. aris has some
thing which other greut metropoles of the world are lacking.
Moulptures and pictures  yi rench history or l.vo yeare
Gan be found almost in any streets or tullcinge of the motro
polis. we cainst telieve .rench eltizons wnder the influence
of theso are snore  knowleuge uno experlence. lthough they
might asgue tos uucn und eosily ses uxcl scd. they are not un
enllend    s.  wh y tt prance
is on tne deoline uo nst mnos che roal  rance" (p.7u)

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
—  -
APPENDIXE
"A NOTS BOUK OF A LIBERALIST"
By Iohiro Hatoyama
From Chuoh Kohron (Central Heviow)
January 1936 Issue, Tokyo
I feel these daye that I a fer apart from politios.
While I am atill a member of the Diet and of a politioal
party, my feeling is to look at politics from a third party's
view point falling back a step with an critioal eye. I do not
go to headquarters or :eiyukal these days, but I do go out
ofton for leoturing. I am rather enjoying it, to speak slowly
and with a tone of inculcation in a professor-like manuer,
perhaps more than a hot and fightin politioal speech.
I have vecided that it is a time for s nan for me politi-
cally at the momunt. therefore. I stand un a lecture-platfom
eway fran my party headquarters with a feelins to stroton my-
self between confortable naps. s a pelitician. perhans this
is my time for scli-examination. it may look to be a passive
disposition as a politician. sut. I take it es a contraction
before an expansion for the sake of parliumentary government
in whioh 1 rirmly telieve.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.94)
一70-
This fell I leetured at First Higher Sehool and Bamrikm
Cullege, Tokya Both institutes are my Alme Maters as I emteree
Firet Higher Sohool from a middle sohool attaohed to Tokyo
Eicher Normal School. My old mastere are still teaohing there.
For example, rof. inegishi of Bunrika College who is e leo-
turer on history with whosu introduction a student oame to me
asking for a lecture. To speak before my old master mas happy
and yearing mamont for ne but was a little bashful me like
a small boy. 1 shook myself together and studied e little bit
once more as 1 wantec to speak on correct things before a pro-
fessor of history and not random talks.
. senior speaks berore juniors with sld teacher as a judge.
It save me so unex reealble frlendly and easy feeling that I
oould freely talk ulmost unything I wanted in this world.
Following is the substance of the lecture with same additions
on political subject which 1 avoided to touch at the institute
before students.
●... O...。
uestion of liberaliam versus control system or, politi-
cally speaking, parlie entery covernment versus despotiam is
an important subjcct politically, economically as well as so-
elally.
Under current oliticul und social trend of this country.
liberalism or parliamentary government systen is hurdly pressed
under the weight of control systen or despotism and is falling

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.92)
一n-
baok in shade. It appears to be a foolish thing to talk o
sueh mubjeot under much ciroumstances. Perhaps. it might s
wimer to "trade on" the trend of the time, but we cannot emsily
change our eout merely for expedienoy.
ur aspiration for frecdom or our principle to look at
freedam wo an ideal, or, in another words, our desire to per-
feot individuality alang our own criterie without interferonee
frun others is a basic human nature of any age and is e firm.
unshakable und cstablished husan belief which oomes from our
b10x1
at ordinary times, we may not realize oureelves this de-
sire for freedx. but, if we are represeed by others, we will
wake up to this desire in a moment. It is a human inetinot
and e true human charucter.
When 1 wae a stucont, not beln an exoeption to the gene-
ral rule among youn "intelllgentzyia" at that time, I was an
adsirer of soseki atsu e ta woll-known Japanese hovelist and
philusopher). 1 used to spend the suamer overy year at Karuizawa
and it yes a doligut ior o to road his novel in the afternoon
at my sumer cottuge. wmons his works, I liked most his novel
"2l th. Day". Perhaps, hatsume did not write this novel with
any political and sociul intention. Nor 1 know any man who
interpreted this. novel in the affirmative. But, I find in this
his work a cortain political philssophy us interpretation of
all my cn.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.94)
As you know, this "2luth, Day" is a light novel samposse
of dialogusa through all pages and is full of fine pisees of
proses. The dialogue' is between Sei-san who claims himself
to be "ley, I am a son of a bean-ourds padlar" and Ron-man
who boasts ninselr by saying "I can't stand to eating only
bread every cay. I was born in a nice family, though I may
not so look. vo I ?".  fhere is quite a difference in the
1deus und desire or these two persons toward literelim, al-
though I do not know whether such differenoe is intentionally
made ty the author.
.ocoraine to oku-san, "bie men ure pecrs and rich peoplo".
Thus, ne solves the question raised by ei-san in a very simple
way. Loi-sun protests to it and says "Poers and rich people ?
May be. ut, urn' they clso tean-ourds pedlers themselves ?
They are no cod us they think that the world is theire. It's
all ri ht that they urive a fine carriage and build a gorgeous
ville. sut, they tully others like the devil. they ... they
..". oi-san is exoitod.
sei-san asks oku-sen whether Koku-san has ever reed
Licken's "rale or iwo CIties'. it is a story with social back-
ground during the golden ege of France when veere and rich men
had ruled over the comonalty. y father liked Liokens and
we had Licken's complete collectlon at my home. Lei-san's
words have remindee me of wy ole memory that I once read the
novel as my father recmended it to mo when 1 was a student

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.91)
-73-
at the First igher School. I still dimly remember the oat-
line of the etory which I read about thirty years. ago that a
poer drives his carriage in the country road, finds a niee
lookine girl and foroibly pioks her up and go home with the
ond that both the girl and her fiunoeu go mad for sadneas and
so on.
oku-san ulnswers that he has never read Diekens but had
read "tuigeteu of L a" (a popular Jepanese novel) and their
dielogue is followed ty Natsume's well-known proses. Both mon
finally climb up mountuin so of kyushu. hen Hoku-san saw at
the voleano "the dense, bis whirl of amoke coming up from the
unknown cepth of hell toascend through the cloudy sky of autum
fain" and heurd "the roaring of the eurth as if it shakes up
the whole eloments of the smoko of several hundred tons" and
thus when ne touched "this rand und liborated aotivities of
creat ature", easy  ok.-aan suddenly woke up to mis instinet
desire for liberatlon nhich hus peen sleeping in the bottom
of his heart. when ussed by rei-san. "You do it ?". Hou-san
answers triumohuntly "all richt. 1 will fight? ".
Perhaps such my osn way of interprotation about thls im-
mortel master lece of work may make late Matsume soar. human
nature is that desire ror liberation is unooncious at ordinary
times. but if once ussreseed, it rises frun seed to resist and
go after freed. 1 nly immagined that he might have tried
picture suo! Luan nature.
●.。. O...●

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.89)
4
-74 -
s I sec it, 1s not e history a repetition of struggle
between desire for literation and the power to oppress it ?
When Pope of Nome was at the height of his power over
ruline kings, peers, scholere and politioiane of the time, we
hud the efonation led ty artin suther. He was a son of
a mine. worker aud was u professor in theology at wittomberg
University. irom the totta of his heart, he disacreed with
the over-rulines of :o o. hon ope Loo the lenth sold out
Indulgences in Germeny fur colleetion of buildine fund of Et.
ioro Cathedral, uther rose in a ruge. Ho immediately an-
nounced hie 9o  siut rotest at the cate of vittemberg. His
burnine protest so sureud all over surove at that time.
Needless to add, thte war tie beginaing of modern liberalistie
movenent.
Furltan's revolution broke cut in ngland shen peonles
surrered under coccio.  i Ju us u d ing charles of stuart
Lynasty in cevent sut se tury. theso cevolutlons, one in
1o53 under winy Jamee una vme other in l0me under 1n Charles.
re well-kn  passu  in  lisn itor. ny such resem
blancce cun be foume in sther mistorie or te vorle. o 1
stated before, history ls a recore t strus les tutween power
to su press treedus end successive re pulsions  aimst it.
It will be rortunate if resent conditions f Je an have
no resemblance to uny a these. blle ireee f ameuch 1o
guaranteet by hationel constitution. there is no suel freedom.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.90)
★
- 75 -
as matter of faot, in this country at present. Yreedom of
apeeoh is now pinned under the weight of a big rook. Politi-
cians, businessmen ant writere are all shrinking fram what
they pant to suy or write. It is a very dangerous condition.
That young men of Germany, after the last horld sar, pre-
ferred more than uny other time to climb uo mountains and
other outings, tu rorget loum of post-war Germany has been
widely xnown. estrictions of Versailles freaty mede Germans
to foel su pression of teeir freeucm. hile older cermeno
swallowed the treaty wnd let the matter reet there, younger
verane sougt toe a trit of freed om by climbine a, mountaine.
Mazi sratbed thls psyenology. exmouncied liberation of derman
people and rarised its fruition.
in italy, indi nant st the weak-kneed politiclans who
were powerless uncer  seure f co muniets. ussolini marohed
to ose Lnd aved toe ruy for presont duy Faecism. Both Naziom
and sasciam, in one sence, wure a movement arainat restraints
and presoure fr otrers with  cesire for liberatlon to find
the worle or their wn. omever, whether or mut uscolini and
Bitlor htve actually brougst about a netlonal lib ration in
their oracties or politics is an another question.
It is an tre ely cungcrous attempt if sane he in this
country tries t co arter tre attern or ussolini or Litler.
my observatlon is that tiey were an lncvitable dev lo ment
under then circuastuncus in Ital: and C rmany and I wish to

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.92)
● 0 -
sse what eventuality will be. To trans-plest them Sate this
sountry is a mistaken intention by those who have no knomlodgs
of the historioal national eharacter of Japan.
In Russia, when Kerenski's Provisional Government called
national assembly in the autum of l9l7 to deliberate on a de-
mooratic oonstitution, bolehevik forces kloked him out and,
after numerous plote and messecree, they have consummated re-
volution. This in substance has thrown Russian peoplee into
slevery conditions. vutwardly ussian peoples are given freedom
but none the less slavery are their conditions. Compulsory
labor, low wages, unconfortablo living conditlons, rigid re-
gulations and dictatorisl orders. het they were given were
coorcion and poverty instaed of freedan and ooulenee. Nazim
and Fusoism are nothing more than Eolshevik ruvolution in that
they have organized one-varty dictatorsbi? in defiance of
peoples' freedom.
Revolutions usually co not work cut us suvurtized. He-
voluti onists. are venerally egotisis thouh thoir cscaolties
may uirrer and cold-blooded. if revolution is their job. it
1s natural toat the cutcue will at re ws rl inully deslgned.
Ihus, revolutione in ussla. sevmany and italy have turned out
in a contrudlctory pesults fnr omart fre rec o which eoples
wanted. Peo les would look to t erely a tsl for revelu-
tionist's'hobby. Bangerous.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
1
一7
Well-known Frensh thinker of early Wimeteenth Ceatury
Charle Feulier said that when men are fully liberated, it is
a time civilization advanoes and when men's freedm is rest-
rained, it is time civilization degenerates. The time of
Renaissance is an outstanding example of this. Also Reform-
ation gav humanity freedom of study and thet was a cause of
development in philosophy and natural soience with resultant
marked advancement of hwsan economic life. The time from later
part of Nineteenth Century over to early Twentieth Century was
a hoyday for liberaliam. It will be useless to omphasize what
e remarkable progress was mede in world's civilization during
this pericd. The liberated world is full of spirit and epergy
while suppressed world feeturcs stugnation and slavishnnes.
But, things have their cark side as well es bright side.
Free competition is mother of progress, cut easily falls in
egoiem. viotators take it up and criticize. vut, it must be
oorrected by the interpretation that freedan is the motive of
progress, but, if you wunt a freedm, you should try to sive
freedam to others too. You sould bo disquullfied as u momber
of mociety if you care only for ourself and nut Ior others
bappiness.
Golfers orten use this wurd "cisquellficstion". if a
golfer violates the rule und troubles othere, he no konger can
continue the game. he is "diequaliried". From this reusoning.
"charity" is a natural outcome in liberalism. Lhore will be

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.91)
1
一78 -
various ways of "oharity" such as to finanse a poor student
or run a hospital for the poor. Some one argues whet menkinê
wants today is social justicc and not "eharity". y idea is
that to give freedom to othors is e scoial justies. It is all
the more better to emphesize the "we" rather than the "I".
hell-known German philosopher Linsohtein wrote in his re-
cent book published in London entitled "The World As I See It" !
"The true value of a human bolng is determined
primarily by the easure and the ense in which
he has attained to liboration from the celf".
what he means is that a man of true value is a person who always
thinks or the sooiety us a whole apart fre cis celf and ego
tim. suoh is to te an attitude of u liburallst.
«ith suoh morel consideration, we wi:nt be uble to defend
against the accusations f ulctators that liboralism is noth-
ing more than egotism, that it makes teis whsle world degene-
rate and will de prive it of huen passion. Liberalis, of
course, has its derects. However, we cannot think of politios.
economic life amt ed ccution in ceriance of tis u an ae ird
tion for freedm. It will to a bis misteke to argue ubout the
side issues without los lnp at this eseence of the sroblen.
while unconditioaal frescaa has its defects, blindrold
control systen is alse aungerous. How to har onize these two
1s a very delicate question.
n y 27 or lst sr (l). . 1n n United tate

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.89)
1
一 79-
was deolared at the Supreme Court as unconstitutional. Is is
interesting to note its effeet on the Mew York stoek market.
The news of the decision on N. Hea. reached the. New York
Stook xchange almost at the last mowent of the day's transae-
tions. all shares briskly boosted up aocompanying marked in-
creased volume of businese. it wae an indication of the de-
light of market operators that lifting of the ban and fallure
of control systew meant to them return to industrial libera-
tion and recovery. un the following day. however, all shares
wore heavily sold down. The reaeu was that operators now
began to worry about industrial unrest and threat or labor
strikes. This is an lllustration thut bon it will be a delicate
problom to find out an acjusting point betseen free aconomy and
controlled eoonomy.
ur. Cinjiro fujiwara (a noted Ja anese Dusinosssun) has
just returndd fr nis teip. in urica and cenada. he atresseo
that bohea. was a failare. he saye if u tourlst ets abcard
a train in merica, he finds a tath-re ano barter-ahop.
-verthing is very luxurlous sne ore, out lts rullr mad cuarany
1s under liquication. if le o so a notel,  finds it a
gorgeous one, but the hotel com any is alss under liguidation.
If he visits a factury, ne wili iind it uguin in liguidation.
Big, well-knonn banke in large cities savo vheir doure oren.
but sreat number or local saus ure in iallure.
ocorcime to r. ujivara, atlonal in usvriel  csvery

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.93)
4
- 80 
lot has greatly improved working terms of labor, but Laber det
hes certainly done a wrong thing. It redueed working hours
from 48 hours to 4) hours a week. In another worts. it shart-
ened -houre a day by 20 per cent. abile working hours were
reduced by 2 per cent, wages remained unohanged. From manage-
ment side, this means wages have been increased by 2ù per cent.
The law la cesigned to take care of this lose of employer by
raleing prices of products. fhere will be no problem if emp-
loyers can raise t o prices to tho eatent cost of wages is
increased. -ut, te prooess aotually does not work out as
expected slnce tuyers co not like that increased cost of wages
be shifted on thom. fhus, employers try to lower conditions
of labor ther then pay-rolls. nence the strikes. kr. Fujiwara
concludes about mecovery casures that at least result of Labor
act was very unsatisfactory.
an ex planation Bue once Iven by -rnst vagemann, a German
econanist, atout controllec cconoiy. he states that prementt
crisis. lihe the preat ceohx ic Cu res ion after tre Nanoleonio
ar, reorescnts e lon wave f econemlc cycle end free cconcay.
which denencs solcly upon culf-ad justine prscese of economie
factore. no longer overates under current conditions. he states
auah procest once aorked correetly but it has oroved to be
virtually owerless durlns pust 1. years. that is why other
politioul uno social systoms su well so state laws have to
hel it ut. since a short wave ceflects cconanic change as

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.90)
4
.一 81.-
result of self-udjusting procoss of sconamie eyele, it eam
recover itself. But, lope mave ropresents effeet of those
factors other than econcmie proeees. Therefore, those pomere
other than economio process are needed to cure'it. His argus-
mont has sane of reasons, and it is an another illustration
that how delicate is the problem of adjusting the difference
between freo econcmy and oontrolled econcy.
Lowever, we must make it olear that liberelism is the
principle and control syston is the ezoeption. as stated be-
fore, we cunlet think of pslitios, econanic life and education
in defiance  hu an a iratiun for freedom. but there will
be cases whion reguire certeln control system. Control syatem,
naturally, should be minimized both in domestio and interna-
tional relations. In time cf crisis. mon are apt to be blind
to things uther than the imediate noed or the mowent. But.
if they confine to and weign too much on the noud of the monent
only. they are aot only ixing up tne esssuce or tne problem
with the cxce tion put ulco enoun oring permanent hucan pro
6r86s
●●。。 je。
ve hed many interesting ex eriences curing recunt eleo-
tion about this confusion of prinolple and exoestion.
e hsld election to fully ro resent people's will and.
for this puroose, it should bo conuucted to unable both clee-
tors und cundidates to act and s oak Ireely. Lut, election

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.92)
一-
law is enforoed to control various evils suoh as earruptiems
as these are liable to happen if it is made too free.
For example, the law provides that only authorised pereems
can work in the eleotion campelgn. when someone was bringing
a cup of water to the sneeker at a political meeting, he was
stopped by the police because it was "supply or labor". Some
orimary sohoul teacner Found he morning on tis way to sohool
an electlon sighboard rolling over the roud. When he put it
u. he was arrosted uy the police. lection posters at a poli-
ticul meeting were blown down by the wind. some aid of the
meeting wus trying to vaste it aguin on the wall by using a
ladder. s it slipmed, one of tne audience helmed him holding
the ladder. ne mas stopped by tae polico to do so because it
was "supoly of labor". a politicul meeting was being held at
a primary school buliding. a sclool-servant who ahowed looa-
tion or toilet to ohe or tne audience was called to the police
statlon on the chur u t at it was "supply or labor".
the law lim ts mumber or smeakers to turee for e meetine.
 manager of ua certain meeting thenked the audionce in an opon
ing addresc "for coning in a ruiny day". fhe attendant police
counted his as one sneaker because what ne sule vus "a speeoh
in aid to cendicate" and cid not per ltto s eak the third speaker
of the day wuitin ror his turn. rhe laa robibits individual
visit to the hose of electors uy the candidate or uy his as
sistants.
"uoo mornlm. ir.  xay 1s a bis day fo you.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
4
1sn't it ?" a farmer working on his fars greeted to ths demds-
date who passed by him. "Thank you" salled baek the eandidate
and he was arrested for violation of the lav. There were m-
merous interesting such examples in the losal elections.
in prineiple, an election ahould be a free one. The Ele-
etion Law is enforoed only as an exoeption to the prineiple so
that the election is conduoted on a fair basis. But, the spirit
of the law was misunderstood y many and abnormal and unthink-
able way of control mas at work in the last eleotion. uch
was often "an official control".
Some of what bureaucrats intend accon eny greet danger.
In control eystem generally, much administrative powers will
be inevitably vested in the hands or goveraent orficiele.
They are a class of porcons who have a traditlonal Labit of
brandishing powers over the neads of poosle us muon as they
can. They have not seen much of lire and are short of experi-
ence. «hile they draw salaries puid ty pople's taxes, they
forget to be e public servunt and orten sot u) for e "hlgh
person" of the Leucal tines. rivate businessmen, merehante
and farmers. lnorder to pay salurles to these "birb ersons".
have to work hard in addition to earn to live on thexselvus.
There is quite a big ca between enthusius unc strains for
work of officials and orivate men. Fo exereise their tlind-
fold control over these eo le ls erilous enourh.
Ihe sace rule av lics to clection. phe buresuerute claim

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.92)
. . - 84 -
that political parties ere responsible for carruptiom of else-
tiom and a part of the nation also believes in it. Sut, om
the first page of Japanese parliamentary history, it is eleerly
stated thet it was Yajiro Shinagawu, a great elder bursaueret
of ksiji sra, who firet corrupted electiono to knook domn op-
poaltione through bribery and govorument interference. Perhaps,
next man mas anetake ura, another great elder bureauorat.
Political parties of todey are rather sufferin from their
eimmples which have made elections curruptitle and expensive.
hhoover had set the wrong preceient, politioel parties
of today have to strugfle to exist and finance their expensive
campaigns. Ihis gave birth to various undersirable evils.
It should be understood trat the political urties uf today.
and not the bureaucrats, are feeling more strongly neod of
purifioation of eloction than anything elsd. pureeucrats better
apolocize political parties f tdsy for wron recedents of
their aneostors and work on arification of electionror their
atonement t cestore former posivl of politicul urties. If
they still hurbor a thourht to control over polisicel parties.
they are mixin the eane with the end.
vne thins more. it woule be u conard tatri ue or cureau
crats ir they vry to take over voliticel t sothuld, swimming
with the tide of sresent uictatorial i rluencus. if we suepend
operatlon r our natlonal constitutl u it would be an another
oroblen. so lons as national cunsvltutio remains srrective

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.90)
- 8 -
as besis of parliamentary government, m eannot deny politieal
parties. nd, so long as political parties exiet, representa-
tives of the Mouse olected by will of the people should be the
pivot of national polities. If buroauerats or military men
are interested in politics, why shouldn't they eome through the
triel of election with a mental qualification closely linking
to the peoples they represent ? By so doinE. their pest wrong
habit of "high person" looking down fr "high seat" with hand-
ouffs in their hands will fade away and they cen be relieved
out of the 1lluolon that they are "feudal lord" instead of
public servant. ihus, with politics in tme hencs or politi-
oians, routine administrution is the aands of buresuorats and
national defence in the lunds of colclere, civision of work of
state affairs will be laio vut clcar to all.
those who believe in cuspctlon wlgut dream that they can
stamp out liberal marllarentury covermmeut or arty politios.
If so, they must knox that it ls a aross iotako. Tolay. par
liamentary soveriment or party lities I da on, while cepre-
sentins the will of the veovle. is sick in wed, weary and tired.
but it will never die. it will tace u roet, will have nutri-
tlous rood. will preserve sosd figolin ower snd will come
baok again witl. refreshed shil ose hy.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.89)
- -
APYLNDDF
FRO"POLITILAL CALENOXR
in Harch 24. 1938 Ismue of
Asah1 Graph, Tokyo
y Yamabosh1
IG   PY 
Shake-up of olitical Partiss
Surely now politioal party will come up to the surface
with enough militaristic views similar to those of army men.
It is a historical inevitability though how political partise.
dopend upon traditions of their cunstituents. if and when
mituation does not warrant this, it is very protable that ex-
isting parties will undergo a wholosale cheuge of color to 
new-party-like political hilosohy. sron now on, usual argu-
ments for parliamontery overn ent or for party covecnsent
identiried with ca italiam ars nct in vut a costle in tne air.
Since the tine of wirots vahinet, there hus been a eradual
move amone mowbers of the partiee sho were just sick of and
averse to attitude r their leudere to rganize a dow arty.
thelr individedal motives may be manyrold. tose will rogerd
it as an expedienoy to cet to pomor. xe vill uso it as a
weapon to enlarge p rsonal influtnce. ome will crat tho onance
as means of getting out of Mis seo iliant y flattering to the

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.89)
4
- 87-
militarists. But, at any rate, as compared with pest mew party
movement designed at mere shaking up of exlsting parties, the
present movement is a new one in that it noe represents a mote-
mont to lay aside their truditional coat of liberaliam and-to
join the militarists in their war-preparutary philosopby. The
new movement is under way not only within the big two or Seiyu-
kai and Minseito but also within the bureauorats and amall poli-
tieal groupe. ihie is a strikin change of attitude as party
men who used to blindly believe in oaniputent of perty polities
and parliameatary poverncent.
Such new party movement woule nut has been neceseary if
the party bossee themselves huve made such a turn in their at-
titudes because they cnn simply steer the snole party to join
the militarists. ihe real reaeon wbich pave a tirth to it was
that these bosses still confine tuciselves vithin the shell of
conventionallan und are ivays tostile to the militarlste.
Coneequently, the new rty mvennt, as soserved within the
narty. ls wairlins as an anti-boss ovement.
Tis movement had s sesd se wicvly voware we end or Lirota
Cabinet toat the wrmy mes hee bulley a t ue e a waeh to the
dlesolution or the wlet at teat tlme. with vhe cuanse of tho
cabinet, however, the chance ns he. maysni waclnet has
tried to cuther en or noew srou s or various arties to be
consullvated as a nes party unter she larlusnce or the covern-
moat. However. be was a t nly unpr ret ror tie Job and un

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.90)
一  -
skilled in the game but also he lost from hie side importamt
men such as Nagai or Nakajimn who wore thought to be foothold
of new party movement, and flayaani tumbled at the start. Thms.
the new party movement which once looked to be eomgeeled frem
oloudy conditions is now in a standstill. The Governmnt,
however, has recently apnointed Count aodade, who wms the modi-
ator uf the movemont, es Linlster of Cormunications and is fur-
thor plannin to iok u, fron verious parties iafluential now
party en into the cabinet und is eager to pave the way to eon-
sumtate by all  euus what is called "coalition of the civilians
and the ilitarlsts".
Tarty mon's attitude ls also epowing u keen and uneovered
resoonse to the rorrure f te voverment and prospeots are
that the movement vill coe uo to the surface at any momont
oaly if they cun find a yo chunce und a man to head the now
party.
whether e hew varty will be or anized or exlsting partfes
will mane a new turs as  s ole. wo oo not know. but. at any
rate, dee -routen fricti ons wit.in the nolitical parties will
continue until e bi olitioul shans-u in vither way marks
thechoo
Conciticne of inselts erty
weiyuxal is nell-knonn ror ite inside frictions but nomo
the less deen-routed is the trouble within winceito. they
heve beon a group of liberalistt in colitioul thought ms the
party itselr Ies been manapeu for years by its membere of ex-

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
teresta. Their platform end guiding peliey, as repressateß
by their past three heads of Kate, Hamaguehi and Wakatankss
are in favor of international scoperation and capitallstio
socioty. Present head Hmchide is also a snseessor te this
polioy. He categorieally rejeots anything mhieh will dis-
locate present social order or cause any internatiomel dis-
pute. xa would not appoint any man among exeoutives of the
party if he is an advosate or "emergeney measures". So much
typical is Minseito as an old fashioned existing palitieal party.
although not as deep as Seiyukai, their ianer frietions
between various factions of the party are bad enough. With
inseito, senior director Sakurauchi and ohier meoretary Magal
are supposed to be in positions respeetively direoting various
affairs of the party. Sowever. real policies of the party are
actually decided by those bosses like Ogawa, Ohase, Koizuml
and Katsu who are nearest to President Waohide. Mon like
Sakurauohi and Naga1 are treated in the party rather as "non-
hereditary" exeoutives. hhile the first group represents the
liberal traditions of the party and clways plays passive woman-
like gamee against the militarists, the second croup harpoure
intense antiputiy against suon attitude and they are always
opposed oach other. fhe former Minister or Communioations
Tanomogi and Bukiohi Miki are on the side of latter group and
they advocate to renew the polloy of the party to cooperate
with the militarists in order to hevo the party rally again.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.91)
一90
Men like Tomita, Taware, Kamasaki and Yamají, whe have beem
Long working for promoting General Ugaki Cabinst, are mom joime
ing thie pro-military faction of the party.
although they havo not gone yet as far as Ssiyukai in the
new party movement, there is every likelihoed that they will
join it if big new head is chosen for the new party. Negei
and his group opine that it is a childish play and merely selr-
contentment to irritate the militarists under eurrent situatien
and propose that this is a time to rcconsider the ways for
national destiny and constitutional govornment. Ihus, they
boycott those liberal leaders sitting around resident Maohide
and are getting support of middle und younger elevents of the
party.
When the Liet Is over, they will try to win the leader
shio of the party throuch election of executives. As the Cov-
ernment also will start to work on political carties at this
time to rill vacunt catinet membership. it is very likely that
a great confusion will follow ir Fresident vaonice misconducts
the arfoir.
bi  y s  
Inslde trouble f eijunal uae a too lon tlatury to de
brierly surveyed in this article. In suret, the lonn flght
among various boases or the party finally hus resulsed in
Hatoyama's triumph, sivins bim e predainunt power sver the
party durine past several yoars and now other fections of the
party are launching a now fight to kaoon him down. Inoidentally

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.91)
4
- 92-
as Eateyamm is a strong l1beralist and è perliamentalimmiséa
Seiyukai has been always in conflies with the militarists.
Anti-Hatoyame faetions blame that he is responsible fer the
present diffioulty or the party and they remotively advocnte
pro-military movement to be eventually developed into organi-
zation of a new party.
Since Suzuki became the President of Seiyuka1, or, if we
date back, since inuka1 was the President or the arty. Hatoyamm,
in a olose dual with  ori, has skilfully steered his way through
various bosses of the party like Yamamoto, Maeda, Nakajime and
others and well long held his position among them along the
roed to Presidenoy. beine a liberalist as he himself elaims.
Hatoyama is e thorough- oing parliamentalianist. this his
attitude was shown even durine the atorm of o.ls Inoident when
he did not let sazukt to cast off his idea of singlo party
government. fhis wos t beginning or cownrall of Seiyukal.
Thenoe bitter and uncovored rights bocan between Jeiyukai and
the wilitarists on almost ev ry issue cnd eiyukat's unchang
ing attitude pas sade v e militarists to nate mure seiyukai
than1neeito.
Besideu Hatoyamn and his faction. there are severul fuc-
tione within eiyukai under pescective inil unce of the bosees
of the party suck ms uzuki. muharu, Tokonami, mori and others.
large and small, yet the leadersui, of the party hae been al-
waye held in the cund of hatoyawca thror r pis wise management

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.92)
-  -
and administration of the affairs of the party. Party mme mhe
loot hope to appromch to power easily set desparate. They thimk
their helpless conditions slipping cech day away from the pèwes
into a long lightless future is due so the anti-military atti-
tude of their boss and the first step of any oame-beok of the
party is to deprive the leadershio of the party out or Hatoyemm's
hand. but, so long as llatoyame holds the leadership under
President Suzuki, only coup detat can overthrom him. So strong
1s his position in the party.
buch situation has iven an enoouragement to new party
movement. frst. Laeda and Nakajima, the two outstanding
bosses, wade the start. .s their plan has taken a more derinite
shape since the end of lust yeer, all other anti-latoyama fao-
tions and other grumblers of the carty have spunteneoualy joined
the movemont as if the oarty would selit up.
with the rormation of uyushi cabinet, however, the plan
proved'to be a miscarria e and this time they have turned their
brunt now to deprivine leadersni of the purty into their own
hande. Thus, they have started uaitution to have sick resi-
dent uzuki retire fron his position us a re-reguisite to
overturalne catoyane's influence. shet sven members of suzuki
faction bave jolned shis ugitation sill show how strone is the
enti-hatoyad fecliner w tnr motbere or the party.
vhen cuzuki ro osed to resign rrom resiceney and tem-
porary executives were to be rymalzed, anti-latoyama factions

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.89)
4
4
●3-
insisted on appointment of throe exeeutives by a party elee-
tion. In anticipation of possible defeat in the elostiom.
Hatoyamn faction opposed to this by roposing appeintment of
four exeoutives ty nmination by retiring fresident. Thus.
Eatoyama could narrowly succeed in holding on bis position.
in canin oril, elyukai is coing to have its regular
eleotion of new orfioers. The rosult of this cleotlon will
definitely secide the future oourse of suiyukai whether it
eolors itsell pro-militariste or unti-mllitariste. all anti-
Latoyune ractione may join to ex pol matoyama from the party.
If they wiu, eiyukai will mako a uecisive turn in its attitude
tomard the militarists. hatoyanu faction, of cource, will
oppose tp thls. but they would ut be courageous enough to
secede froe the memtership of the arty with the result that
Seiyukel as a woule will lean to oro-militarists. un the con-
trary, if atoyuma and his lectfon renain on loportant positione
of the arty us bes re, the arty will te dra od fato the
agitatlon work of the soverent i mew arty and, coupled
with intermal iriction or -insclto, it will violenatly croak up.
In enort, mutually  sosed interests and sliticul idous
amone party boasee lus strur les outacon co and antl-etatus
quo facvlis within the erty. , in another words, between
pro and anti-military fuctione or the urty. have now ce
nearly to a point to burst us to the suriacs. at any rate,
who will be clected soon after tne Llet us new leuders of both

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.78)
- 9 -
parties eaeh proud of respective traditiom will deelde their
future political destinies.
...O...

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.88)
4
● 95 -
APPENLIX G
TRACT FR "HILHARA VRPLYS"
BY TATSU, 12HUCHI IN MAY 26th. 1946
ISSU F NIPPN ALY PUBLISHSD IN TOKY
Post-war Japanese politics dre just like wild birds flap-
ping their wings in a cage, or touring country actors bewil-
dered on a metronolitan stage. we they were suoh was one of
the ressons they lhave allomed curine past years Je unese mili-
tarists to play up with politics, start unnocescary war and
ruin the country.
why did Shidehara try so hard to cline to ower ? Terhaps.
he thought he would play by himselr all the purts layed for-
merly by "genros" or "elcer spate men". ex-premiere und Lord
Koeper of rivy ceal, as tese ve s al one. but, that
was something unnecessary. mig mistute in Ja anese politics
in thd past was ln tne vriveto leuaorsal t clitlce ty these
mon aho wore neas to the eone. shat ave  chanee to wilie
tarists and nationalicts to hold poeer in definnce s the will
of the poople. hideheru is tryine to o meut it s ain in post-
war bolitics.
there are twe proble s in thie ms vect in polation to the
proposee new Natlonml costitution. -irst problem .s to re-
move all such t ings for e sune of lomvoraey fro the tourt

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.90)
4
- .-
whieh will support any means of private leadership of polities
and open the way to let the will of the people to be the will .
of the Tonno.
Second problen is the renae's rosponsibillty for the war.
at present, no Japanese is thinking to so hold him. Japanese
people are after those ten who misled the Tenno. They are deep
ly sympathetic toware the Lonno.
But, if the Tenno still nensits such a man like Shidehara
to sit high in the Court like former "genro" or "elder states-
mon". ox-prewiers or Lord nueper of rivy ceals to privately
play up with politics, Ja enese eo le now will to in to call
the Tonno to account for tne political calucion us well us
for the har whatever revision to mude in the mew ational con-
stitution. id shidehare ever taink of this ? if he still
continues to play his came, he would turn to sy-turvy the "oird
nest".
Lessons fron toja's cuse
tatoyume wes just lise a s arrow flustering ln the cage
until he received the urge direetive. sust when e vas spell-
bound with the fovorable mros ect or the situntlen, bis nesk
was stramled.
lis case hae dlsclosed ceverl lensms. the bir est lesson
was that Jopan is nut an inte ontent cou try. cut yu was a
bie boss of Liberuls. Literals wrty mas. in another words.
batoyama arty. The fuct abcut lieeruls was tret they did not

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.90)
4
- 07 -
elest him as President, but rather Liberals gathered under him.
it the elestion, 14, Juu, vu polls went to that Liberals. Thas.
despite the fact 14, su0, v00 Japanese people were supporting.
Hateyamm was purged.
That shows Japan is not an incopendent oountry yet. It
1s all right peoples are talking about demoeracy. But, his
purge reminded us. prior to that, we should think over more
fundamental thing how can Japan becaue an independent netion
moe more. Needless to suy, the way o end is toward demooraoy.
but it should not be just cmon talks. is urge ave us a
lesson that our first direot purpose stould be to make once
ruined Japan an inde endent nation once again.
idle pureaucrata
his purge hes further revealed so u of tihe problems which
relate to the Government's responslollity. ne of the problems
was that investigations made by hidehard vabinet on eligitili-
tios of the pemtere or tre . fet were vary carelese. there are
even eome meabere-elect sf the  let who ure re urted to have
lied in their curriculu s at the tice  clection. That is a
clear evidende trat slhidenara vobluet wae hot cureral soouch
in the a pllcatlon of e ur e r
it will be a simple work if sueh  reivcsural , overmment
is inetructeo to conduct i vustisatione on indivigusl csncidate
ith
even there are les cundiastes in each electoral dlstrlct.
out making investigution n their urt anmd simaly to resort

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.92)
4
- 08 -
to, after eleetion is ovor, legal punlshment charging that he
l1ed shoms nothing but the long inherited bureauoratie idee
of mmipotent or orrieial powers. Legal punishment should be
rather applied to those governwent offioials who were reapem.
sible for sueh investigation instead of members-eleet who lied.
It 1s these offiolals who ought to be purged from publie offiees.
Conspiracy with "Visage of the world"
another problem is that, according to newspaper souroes.
machinatore of Shidehara Cabinet have "traded" lhatoyama's case
as 'means of trapning him down so that they can continue to sit
on the cabinet chairs. it is a doplorable fact if this is
true. Shidehara and his machinutors should be ourged politicelly
as well as sooially. o doubt, it was hidehars tabinet who
oiroulated rumors through news uoers tint atoyama's eligibility.
is opened to doubt on account uf hia bock "visage ot the "orld"
in as muoh as nobody mowe what ind or re ort Hatoyama has
filed except the uovernnent.
wovernment's esponaibility for
Inuction
third problem is the relation betweun la? and Ja anese
Government. Pollwing nas the ist or P amrbincement on
hatoyana's oase.
(1) Ja anese Govern ent was dicoeted oy a on January
4 to suree all pursonnel caaing under a memoracdua.
(2) contral Liein on rfice or Ja acese Governtent was

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.89)
- 99 -
inforwed by P when April 1 general eleetien was ever
that oligibility of hatoyame was opened te doubs and
Japanese Government wae expected to ro-ezamine his eligi-
b1lity.
(3) Ju aneso uovernment having fuiled to act on its own
rusvonsivility, the supreme Cancander cetemmined the faets
relative to his eli ioilit, and round that Satoyama was
to te arred.
(4) Thus, Jupanese overnent was ordered to pure him.
This sives on im res i n thut, since Junuary 4. Shidehare
cabinet hac fallec in. many vceaeions to falthfully ouserve
sc.. directives. if so, wl at will tecme of responeibility
of hidehura ad sls cutlnet ?
chicehara declaree in the let that he does not like to
Bee a ssrlfe ror wur crives  nm sae flesh and blood. He
has mede it cluur uain in a ress interview that war criminals
are problens of ur ritnel und nut or the Japanese Government.
It a peare tt so ce wa nandle by Jupanese Govern
ment as u matter of rornslity leavin it entirely to SaP's
ensulder.bviously they tried co suirk their responaibility.
e should not overloh this roess. if such failure of Japanese
vovernment in soservin . direccives is left unguestioned.
what result woule follor it ?
Latoyeme's srip neroad
the writer has a recollection about vatoyama's trip abroad, .

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.91)
4
-100-
though the writer had nothing to do with his book "Visage of
the Worla" direetly.
It was one day in July, 1937 soon after China Inoidont
broke out. Kanoye organized bis first oabimet in June of the
same year. hanichl Yumnure celled on me when the writer was
siok and told me about latoyaa's plan of trlp. he told mo
that ovorthing is ready for the tri, but latoyama was at 
loss as china lncldont broke out. e said some members of
Seiyukai .arty were opposine to hts trip, but both Konoye and
birota (then :oreign inister) told atoyama to co ahead as
the trouble in chlne would be settlod within two weeke or so.
There were some otner members of eiyukal arty ure ins him to
postpone nis trip until tne trouble is ovor if it cases to a
close soon.
Yamaure toln tois with  ls uelal ilght tone, but I listoned
to this very serivusly. it ruthur  iscleased me because I told
sonoye e short while ore shut thero is a danger that something
would appen wither in -ongolis or chine roper which might
develos eventuelly into a world wur. i told nonoye not to
hurry to sot to poner, but be roady rirst and if solething
happens. solile lt und tie ry all at one sime. put, vonoye
didn't huve uny roresignt.
ce murouret. sunathine s.at he is
not keen to be a fremier tut ne thinks be cannot twice decline
imperial order.
ithin less than a munth since Lonoye organized his firet
3

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
-1-
Cabinet, big inoident broke out in Chine. What dimplemmed me
was that both Konoye and Hirote were taking things too easy in
saying that trouble in Chimm would came to a close within two
weeks cr so. latoyama also lookod to me too happy-go-lueky in
waiting the inoident cames to an end within two weeks or so.
So such mas socalled Ju unese statesmanship.
I told Yemeura that he better telle iatoyame that the in-
cident is not an susy one, probably we would not be able to
get rid out of the effect of the incicent for three years at
least or muy be ten yeurs snd, if Batoyema wants to go abroad.
this is the best chance fos tim. I further told him that he
tells iatoyams that, if tho incident develons. he would not
be able to go though he wunts to, better go right now and find
out hom the world is looking at the Far wastern situation and.
if possitle, have a talx with them, study the necessary measures
and settle things cacefully through rigld control and purge
of the army before the lncicent develons into a world war. I
remomber i wrote latoysma a letter ebout this in my slek-bed.
rmy lays aeinst atoya
1 was told et that time that anti-hatoyama grou of seiyu-
kai farty wae secretly working to kiok him out of the varty
while he was ubroad, while, on the other hend, militorists were
reported to have deteroineo not to let him core bsck again to
Jepan by catoning him tripping if he talks with merican and
british politiciane as tutoyame belongs to wmerican-British
faction and is a liberalist. It was a time whon strong ohysi-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.93)
-1-
cal preasure was broughs upon Amerisan-British festiom end
liberelists by militarists and nationalists. I remember whem
Yukio uzaki returned from England, militarists tried to prevemt
his landing by use of violence.
hile Latoyama was abroad, militarists and nationalists
kept close watch on his trip and carcfully traced hie every
aot. Aithin the Leiyukai arty, such wen like Yonezo kaeda
and susanosuke ulhare wented to politioally overthrow him taking
advantage or his trip. I have a recollection that when fatoyame
returned hame, although it is not clear to me now whather it
was at Tokyo station or pier at Yokohame, he was met by groups
of nationalists ruffians who distributed hand-bills denoune-
ing hatoyama. In a cortuin sense, nis book "Visage of the
"orld" vas publislheo artly as an evidence that he did not not
anything sus ect to militarists and nationalists while he was
abrcud.
ho is mes onsible i or mondment
of cace reservation lew ?
natoyama 's vurge lirective says ar one or the reasons that
he necessarily snares vesponsitility as chier cecretary of
Tanaka Cabinet, lo27-lj2g. in amending without L1et approval
a part of esco reservation law. 1 seve a certein memory in
this connection.
I have no knowleuge hon resont cabinet weeting is arranged
ai I never asked about it, but berore chier ceoretary did not

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.93)
-103-
attead the cabinet meeting. shen Hatoyame mas Chief Seesetesy
of Tanake Cabinet, he was prohibited from attending the cabimes
meeting by opposition of sone of the ministere inoluding
heikiohi vgawa. but, Chier Seeretary must report about eabinet
moeting to press conference each time. After negotiations
betwoen press representatives and the cabinet, an arrangewent
was made that after each meeting Premier will tell Chief Seere-
tary all about cabinet discuseions and Chief Sacretary in tumm
tells the press representatives all stories. Thum. Chief So-
cretary at that time had no reason to "necessarily share no-
sponsibility" in all catinet deoieions.
Particularly, the amendment bill in question of bace
Preservation law was a moposal of ropartment of Justice.
Kadoh ara, then inieter of Justice, even stressed at thet
time in his strong reguest vhat without it he would not be re-
sponsible for malntuining vublic order. . in fact. Lepartment
of Juetice and sureeu uf vegielation were responsible in drert-
ing and in handlinr of the bill in guestion.
hatoyamd rather u posed tu it. raft or the bill was
sent direet to remier fanaka, wot throuh Chier ecretary.
by hara and Yonezo meda. then Lirector of Bureau f ocisla-
tion, and was tentetively a roved by thd remier. atoyama
and wtede were not on triendly term suct other. hus, it was
sald that natoyama wrete a letter of o lnion to the remier
opposing to tho bill.
euson of nis o osition was that it

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.93)
4
-1-
is uneonstitutional to enact a law whieh prevides for seeh
extreme punishment as death penality by an Imperial Rdiet.
If amendment of Peace Precervation Law eases under any
olause of CaP' purge. direetive, what will te the reepensibility
of Chuzo Litauohi, former Home Minister, in the light of those
ciroumstanoes then evironed the legislation in question ?
Mitsuohi was an important cabinet member and Minister of sdu-
oation and later Minlster of Finance under Tanaka Cubinet.
He was one of the cabinet memters who sunported the legislation
in question at the cabinet meeting. lthough aeca was already
purged. he 1s also res onsible i or the legislation as thon
Direetor of sureau of Le islation. s both are alive, direet
inquiries will easily clerify the whole story.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.91)
-1-
APPRNDIXH
AXTRACT FRON RIGHT BETWEEN
CONGERV TIV. AND PSOPIE'S PRONTS"
By Tetau Yoshida
July 1946 Issue of "ikei Shunju" (Politioal
and sooncmio annals), No.7. Vol. 1, published
by seike1 Shunju utlishing Compuny. Tokyo.
Greatest sufferer of all fran the purge, as chempion of
the Japanese Conservetive Iront, was lahiro atoyama. People's
Front or Populap iront, whatewer we call it, working as more
lefitists than Sooialists, have succesded in blowine up the
Conservative Front throu h "exposure" campaign.
all Ja panese agree that matoyua is a liberulist. he is
not a militarist nor s natlonalist. Thut mas shy he lived in
obeourity during the war. hon e returned fre mis trie abroed
in l937-lys8 or which he desoribee in his bosk "visage of the
World", Japanese militariets cven tried to revent his landing
at Yokohama.
His urge cirective firet olnts cut es cossone for purge
that he should "ssare res onuibllits aa chier ecretary" under
Tunake tabinet for the amendment of euee ruservetion Low.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.93)
7.
一1-
But, this is all wrong. Chief Seeretary of the Cabines at thet
time was not allowed to sit at the cabinet meeting. He hed :
nothing to "share reaponsibility" for the sabinet deeisions.
As a matter of fact, the oabimet doaument in question earriss
no latoyama's meal on it. do was sitting deaf in the upper
gallery.
ihe Feuce Preeervation Lan wes orginally enacted toward
the end of Taisho ra by the so-oalled hree arties Cabimot.
It was a Joint work of Bome iniater wakatsuki and Minister
of Justice Heiklchi gawa. fhere was strong opposition at
that time even amone catinot mambers and Government orficials.
But, in view or then expanding comunist's movement, the home
and polioe admiuistrators persisted strongly urging its formu-
lation fran policing nececsity. It sus reported both wakatouki
and gawu ruoked their brains in personally drafting some part
of the law.
one or the duties of fanako Cabinet then was to curry out
witn ut misha, the state ceromony of the Im crlal corenetion.
dado ara, taen inleter t Justico under fanake Cabinet, was
the man most morvous ebout sny cde nlet's movement in its re
lation to the state cerasony. mo firmly lnsisted on the amend-
ment or tho law on strieter basis und instrueted the Luregu of
Legislation to druft an i erial -cict as the matter wes urgent
and also at that time rout cifriculty was wntlci ated in got
tine the uill ap roved at the Diet. Then Director of the Bureau

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.89)
4
- 107-
of Legieletion was Yonezo Meede who mas mot friendly with
Hatoyemm.
His purge direetive further points out, in additiom to
Peace Preservation Law, thet Hatoyama also should "ahare rew
sponsibility" for the so-called "reuctionel diplanaoy" or ex-
pantionists programe of Tanaks cabinot. but, this also has
missed the point. fanaka's "reactional dipiocacy" was repre-
mented by astern Cohferencu and fanaka Lomorandum.  gener
ally known, the astern Conference was a historie conferenoe
initiated by Ja anese Forelgn ffice, particulerly by Kaku
Mori. then Parliamentory. Vice-Minister or Foreign frice and
was engineered to promote more positive foreign polioy tosard
Manohuria and wongolia. thus rectifying so-called Shidehare
diplamacy. out, tatoyama had no hand in thie.
So-called fanaku  emoranda was entirely a fabricated
doousent by chinese as testifled by thidelara himself who was
then an onnosition to Tanaka. these twe are cownted among
major charges or the  ireetive in mur lns catoyana, but they
are merely supecriclal and have n sutstance in them.
natoyara'r purre sipuetive rurt or ceale sith vaklkowe
Cave and hia boos vissee os te orle as eu lemental charges.
It if ouvious thece sere result of "peachlng" oliey of the
group of Foople's rront und stratatem of  arahashi ( inister
ithout rortfolio in  ideharm vabinet) und his rouo in utiliz-
ing it for "plonl" aou.
urathasi, i anuther worde.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.92)
-108
gave a helping hand to People's Froat.
Hatoyame was the last man in the Conservative Frent.
Poople's front has muccessfully thrown him out of polities ame
is noe following up the chanee for a next show sherpening its
claws within the Socialists with wham they plan to unite the
front. The trouble with the Conservativee is that there are
very few men left iu the  let. if they lose this last man
Latoyema, they will have only third or fourth class men loft
on their side.
●.....●

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.85)
10-
PPANDIX I
APOICS
y innosuke Abe
June lu46 issuo of "choryu" (Current).
No.6. Vol. 1. ubllshed by Yoshida
ublishing Cam puny, rokyo.
verure I po furtler inte the negotlatious between the two
parties (ibcrals ad cialists artics), let me brierly review
hatoyama's murge casu, as this was the real cauce that has made
Jannese politics so locy.
atoya was tre aly pylltioul leador or the former parties
who was exom teo irom the seneral purge. -s a leader or former
politicul urty. he was a liburullet wnd was au advecate of
parliasontulienian. it wae a soll-knn roct thot, though
rether modest in c mduct. ue htohen agullt ojo during tho
war. no could not oven crou that ho was ts do purged by soap
under tatugory .
why Limmrrals wave won ol verty in the lust clcction was.
in ahort, that sne nation estlmateo trut ete arm is not "new"
but not "old" too. i do not think the natlon's olls in favor

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.91)
7
-110
of Liberals were oasted sim ly for preservation of old poliss-
eal influenee. I wish to believe substantial pells went to
Literals with cortain progressive hope of voters, although it
1s a separate problem whether r not the mombere-eleot of
Liberals justify such progressive hope of voters.
It wan a general anticipetion of the result of pest eleo-
tion that lib rols would shon the lurgest polls and win the
No.l perty under forces or the circunetances. The reason
Shidebers cabinet rivately telieved and thrust out thefr tongue
that they probably could continually hold the power in defianee
of the result of the election wes that they were secretly play-
ing with Hatoytne's ure case. investigations for purge were
then beine curried sut chiurly by Chief cecretary of the Cabinet
Nerahashi.
it should not te alloveu that Chief acretary. who
holds the key would utilize it for uliticel strategam. but
he, as a noliticiun, coulc intimatc satet ing atout it though
not to an extest to to called s streta . hus. at that time.
rumors about natoyamd's ineliclbilit were re voutedly ciroulated
around fros the dovere ent source.
Greatest pegret was taat  atoyuma was aut urped by the
Jepanese coverr ent (hidetara cnbinet) but y  
said it was a fuilure un the art of the Javunese sovernment.
sut, it was  t un unintentil railare. it was, to our re
ret, un intntional fulur n ce art  t sranese sovern
ment (ohlder ara cabinet) ufter lons onsey lays wsa their

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.86)
-111-
sventual askwardness. Shidebare Cabinet tried to beok out
after recommending an ineligible person with feigmed igneranse
and threw bim cown a ravine. I do not know suoh a dirty and
knevish trick or fallure - we might call it "a failure" - hae
ever been played in the history of Japanese politios.
...u...

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
-112 -
AP ENDI J
LLLUK BY ISUK CKADA
Fetruary 21, 1947.
I rome ber it was vhen rirst honoye Cabinet was in
procoss or r rmation. hatoyama visited me and asked not to
recaamend onoye in nny csse as remier, because. if Konoye
forms hie cubinet, Le probubly vould not be able to prevent
outbreak of wur between Jeoan and americs on scc ount of bis
personal weshess.
1 told hie that the situation would not develon as bad
as that because Navy war o osed to such war. as. at that timo
Navy wes in fsct opposed to it. I remember Latoyama went
home saying he felt ow " reatly rulieved".
Aoisuke kuda

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.93)
- 113-
APPANDLX X
MEMORANLU BY SIJIRO WAKATSUKI
February 28, 1967.
I remember it wes when second Konsye Cabinet was in power.
Goneral situation at that timo was getting daily from bed to
worse and there was every likellhood that the nation would at
any moment plunge into conflict with roreign powers. very-
body was filled with apprehension and wus feeling urgent meed
of a turn in the situation by all possible meuns.
Hatoyuma came to me at my hcuse at iujimae-ono, Hongo-ku,
Tokyo. hte was seriously eoncerned over such situation. Ho
encouraged me to work to ceuse resignation of Lonoye Cabinet
to save the nution fras the emer chey because le bolieved that.
if konoye cabinet remaine in power, it will eventually throw
the nation into a grave danger. I fully shared his views.
but. I told him. though they csll e an "ulder-statesman", I
am not in a position to virectly a peal to the throne on poli-
tical mattere and find lt cifficuit to ia eciately com ly with
hie request rur a meve. e parted, howevor, with mutual agree-
mont that poth or us would contiunally work to the best inter
est of the nation.
keijiro akatsuki
r

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.90)
- 114-
APPENDIXL
MOMORANDULA BX KOICHI SAKO
VI
1941 - Y 1942
May 15, 1946.
Birti: of Lokokel will date baok to November lo. 194l.
when ite name was registered at the : let as an authorizod
body of members. Dut. its origin has a longer story.
During Yonal Cabinet, Lakao Salto of Linseito made his
well-known oration on setruary 3. 194e at the Liet denouneing
policies of ilitarists. galust this speech, the xrmy filed
a strong protest on the charge that his speech contained "anti-
military clauses". The charge wes tuken up anong the Diet and
developed into u move to punish him and enelude him from Diet
mombershin. s his party, inseito, feiled to show any enthu-
slasm to protect him. aito was munislied by majority or votes
at the odmaittee.
this cuve a rise to about o- liberalist members of the
biet then callen as "green pletos" to derend -aito case.
Centrel figure of the move wae lehiro matoyemd. e claimed
freedum of ilet speech, insisted aito's opinion represented
voice of the nation und his seeech wes not purposely intended
to be "anti-military" und stressed that, if such speech was

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.91)
7
—11
to be banned, it would mean an end to Dist funetione Tamse
we fought against the ruling majority to protest Saise bmt
oaly invain.
Seito was removed and eroluded from membership on Mareh,
7. l94u by majority of votes at the Committee.
Those liberalist members who joined to fight for Saito
Case have now determined to continue to unite for politieal
purpose. Thus, wo opposed during socond Konoye Cabinet te Yen
8. cov.. bill for Taisei Yoicusunkal (Imperiel Hule Assistenee
asoociation). We bitterly critioized character and organis-
ation of that aseociation.
When Tojo came into power in otober l9al, we felt fast
increasing pressure on our activities, resulting, homever, eom-
trary to Gevernment's intention, in our closer and stronger.
uniricatlon. on November 1, 194l, Loyoioh1 ishizaka and my-
selr, representine cur political colleagues, regfstered the
name of Lokokai at the  let as on autlorized tody. We further
fought in tho Diet ageinst till for ar-time vhecial Criminal
Code. Control ot of Sheech. utlicution, -seembly and uasci-
ation, etc. in rotectlon f peo le's right.
Most or the members of bokokal were honine to heve it de-
veloped into a coliticol arty. sut, this wes an impossibility
under then prevailing cirou stances.
In the meantime, 1942
eleotion cume. lojo's iaterference in this election was per-
haps un receconted in its scale and severity. vut of 3o mombers

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.91)
-116-
of Dokokal, only 9 membere were re-elected and a? members
failed. The re-elected 9 mombers inoluded Iehiro Hateyamm,
Yukio Jzaki. Seijun Ando, Hitoshi Ashida, Beikichi Xitm, Kem
Kawasaki, Kotaro Banto, Hyolohi Tanaka and Jiro Hoshijima.
Thus, on May 14, l942, Dokokai was cissolved. Its memberehip
at the time of registration on November l. l94l. ineluded the
folloming names.
Aoioh1 eko
Foyoichi lshizaka
cekijiro ukuda
Seijun ando
Rinji vishi
Teikioniro Tagawa
Koku kawasaki
Ayujáro Ükazaki
«taujiro Uehara
latuo Ludo
bunji suzuki
Denaaburo Maruyama
Kanichi Nagawa
Tetsu natayama
Sadao vakamiya
Junsuke Itaya
hen vkazaki
hotaro Lori
Reikich1 kita
Chokiohi iyuwaki
ayolon1 Tanake
banboku Cno
liatsutaro liaraguchi
Joji liayashi
Jiro noshijima
anshiro ure
Kotaro Danto
Aojo akiyama
nataru Momose
Yaichiro handa
adakichi lehimatsu
Biroshi Latsuki
fakayuki muteuo
Iwakichi hattori
aitosh1 shida
Name of Ichiro hatoyama und Yukio -zaki were added to the list
a few deye later on ovember 14, l041.
Koiohi Sako

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
一11
APPENDD
HAILBD ADLRESS IN 194R GENERAL KIKOCION
Apr11 1942
We now have oherm of april spring, but it is summer of
intense heat in the South and winter of intense coldmess in
the North where our soldiers are toiling far off from their
hames in their faith of loyality. At this time, we are held-
ing a general eleotiun with particular significance requesting
us to carry out parliamentury duties in our respective field.
It is my great pleusure to hereby announce my tenth candidature
for the forthocaing general election.
Firetly I wish to thank you for your unohanging support
and encouragement to mo all through my past candidatures for
nine times covering a period of twenty-soven years of my mem-
bership in the lhouse of e resentativos. I have the honor of
reporting to you in this conneotion that tho following Certifi-
cate of orit wut siven to me on rebruary 27 of last year by
an ununious rosolution of the olse of opresontatives.
"Er. Lohiro matoyamu, a hember of the house of He-
presentatives with chird crade or sho court ak and
lrst urder of werit, has been nine tiees re-eleoted es
womber of the nouse covering a period of twenty-seven
years and has devoted himselr during that period to the

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.91)
4
-21 -
ing of the will of the peopke. The Meuss of Rapreosntee
tives, in appreciation of his merit and servies of long
years, hereby wishes to confer upon him this Certifieate
of herit by a special unanimous resolution of the Rouse."
This is a honor for mysolr greater than any other honorable
position and rank because it has been my lifelong wish to re-
prosent the people's vill amd be serviceable to the progress
of a oonstitutional govermneat.
There are argusents in these deye against a constitutional
govormment and lueas of e rofoim morely for a roform are in
provalenoe, but I an a ste on follower or a government pursuent
to a national canstitution. fhore we have a voice or the people
as volce of Providence. 1 a gravuly cncerned over the breaks
in the consensus of powers of the people behind the gun to beok
up the sucoessiul military rosults.
The acific ar, imeluding thina incident as a nart of
the war, is nom noaris to the ond of its first stage through
efficient military o erations, but we must expect that war
conditions will continte over a considorable veriod of time.
In order to more closely unite ourselves to mmsiontly fight
out the war, we must sive a snirit to the Diet, introiuce active
representation of the poosle's will ty sending in "vassale who
expostulate" and rectify buronuoratic ways of administration,
thus assuring complete mobilization of all the potentials of

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.92)
- 130 -
the country. Susk is the say to pramete the salatiom of chimm
Imsident and to make it possible to ensure the maximms effeet
of the present Pasifie War.
This my way of thinking to foater the people's will is
often purposely oriticized today as against the current of the
time and out of date and. for that reason, as you all will know.
I have to bear the.brunt of the fight in the prosont eleotion.
It 1s my hope that your unehanging support and sympathy will
eneble me to be elected for the tenth time as a member of the
House of Hepresentatives ond t at your "one vote sorviee" will
make up the volce of the eople and the voice of Providenee
whioh build up the basis of our national destiny.
Ichiro Hatoyaaa, Candidate for Nember
of louse of Reoresentatives from
tecond lectoral I 1striot of Tokya
I.  Fignt out the ar mith conseneus or powers.
2.
Bar out mombers-eleet who are "trading" on war.
3.
"a man who never will be blinded by wealth and bighness
- a man who never will collapee wader pressure or might.
4.
"a country sithout vessels who expoptuluto will so to
ruin".
5.
. Diet without s irit is useless.
6.
Voice of the people is the volce of rovicence.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.92)
-120-
7.
Fulfill your responsibility to wateh the Govermmems
administrations.
6.
Soldiers will protect the colours and Diet men will pro-
tect National Constitution.
9.
Bloud for war, sweat for production and tears for goverm-
ing.
15
Have tears also in governing over-seas territories.
11.
an emergency politics bogins with solution of food problem.
12.
In problem or coversion o cusiness properly taken eare
of?
13.
accumulation of potential  wers bebind the gun to back
up successful ilitary operations.
14.
There will be no merican-uritish ruction in Japan, but
one Japanese raotion.
15.
ar is the final step. Liplumaoy comes first.
10.
"orld policy deslgned by lanaka cabinet ulive.
17.
Vacillations of criterin toucned me deep
18.
Lowmunists' move ent dis ulsod under te name or refont.
 Chance Por Voters
Hare fightin of sur sololere under the taserial srace
ha now mode Japan s inturrloel position i ro meble.
are filled with she emotion of heppinese that we are born in
Japan. But, wo must oi eot, as you all aware, thet the sar
will continue ver a lone erlod or yeare. .e should leave

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.94)
ne stones unturmed in order to perfeet the natiomel defense.
behind the gun. Sueh determinetiem is more strongly requiseé
in coming days than any other time in the past. Presemt ele-
otion at such a time has in itself a partieular sighifieamse.
I might pay my respect to the attempt of Pramier Tejo to
be faithrul to cunstitutional government in enforoing the pre-
sent goneral election. Konoye Cabinet last pmar hes postponed
the eleotion one year with the oxouse that time was urgent.
As ccmpared with last year, we are ncw in the Pacifio kar and
urgenoy or the time hae now many tines multinled. It oan be
an exouse fur the overnment to make an another postponement
of eleetion. but. it is an abnormality. Fremler Tojo's idea
to avert suon an abnormality in sbsorvine the opirit of the
national constitution is to to a matter of couree, yet I think
he deserves a word of preisc.
Thile so many politiclans look to bo too busy for opoortu-
nism foregettine their orime duties of legislative funotion
and su erviein the vovernment edsinlstrations,  romier Tojo
deolares that he neede in the wist "a man with a s irit - a
man who novor will be linded by wealth und mighnese - a man
who nover will collupse wader pressure of mipnt". 1 wish to
take orr wy hat a ain to hls as this weuin shows his attitude
to be reitbiul to the constitutional sovernment.
There is a chinese soying that "a country without vassals
who ex ostulate will co to ruin".  men will mot be royel to

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
- 18-
repert" by anssering "horse" to a questien about "éeer". 
Government can te perreet. Premier will be all right, bat mis
assistants may be imprudent. There will be mistakms and fail-
ures. To wateh them and reotify them is a mational duty of
the mambers-eleot of the Liet. The Government should listen
to their expostulations. Thus, the Govermment can expeet e
amooth and satisfactory operation of administrative affairs.
Recent advice of r. hosei be. Lean of the Firet Kigher
School, Tokyo, as appeared in the Asahi, is worthy of listening
as a voico of disinterested party. He saye that "both those
porsone who just follow the Government like so many aheeps or
who oppose to the Governnent morely for tho purpose of opposi-
tion are not fitted to shoulder the prime duty of assisting
the lmperial Nule. ihose who knos nothing but to beoome a eat's
paw of the Goverament and kiok out a man undesirable far them
or who only tries to rill up his ersonal deeires fue power
and prorit by ine onstant omortuniam and tcaciam are not pereone
our mation needs nor our ovommnent wants". fhose ure good
advicee. They ere sums ue remler fojo's worde und nobody will
ubjeot to them.
in my opinion, wlet without a spirit is uselees. feople's
voice represented in the Liet is the voice of the rovidence.
A Miet without murit oI mutual celiburations and drilllng has
no reason to exist. its existonce is harmful to the progrese

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.94)
2
-1
of the nation. It is a degradation of the Diet that opiniems
are not frecly expreased in recent years end aay tousk om the
Government on the sore place recsives reprosehes and defamse
tions. Politicul conditions in past five years were sush that,
after dissolution of political parties, there has been no semme
of responsible government in this country and no sense of re-
sponsible supervision over the Government administrations.
Politicians wore only too busy to steal a maroh upon eaoh other
for "tradine" on bargalns. s a mamber of the Liet, I feel
responsible for such depratatlon in polities. unly I regret
that one men's porsonal influenoe is poworloss against the
general swing of the time.
It is my conviction that colitios should be active and
full of lire to strengthen the tie of the front and the nation
to fight out the lur to the end. to develon war-time and post-
war internal economy und to use our full power in the adminis-
tration of ccoupied sreas. o con ensure the maximum effeet
of the war only by bacsine up the successful military opera-
tione through conetant devices and endoavourn of the peonmles
behind the gun. we feel rest ameured in leavine the fighting
with our soldiers at the front, but do we have enough politi-
cal power to fully support our war operutions ? . real politi-
cal power to ensure the maximum effeot of military operations
is more budly needed than anything else at present time. It
is a high time for all f us to do whatever we oan in oor re-

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
4
-1-
apective field of duties. Soldiers in fighting and politieimms
in politios.
This election at this time is an unequalled opportunity
to build up again politioal power of this oountry. The Dist
will be useless and our great national constitution will lose
its lustre unlees we shut out those inconstant opportunists
from politios, sond in the Liet "a man who never will be blinded
by wealth and hignness - a man who never will collapse under
pressure of might" and inject cumphors into she Diet. Soldiers
will proteot the coloure. Pollticlans will protect national
constitution. This is certainly a time when we must sut our
shoulders to the wheel.
so much so is the partioular significance of the preaent
elootion. i ho e that you will nut lose your way ut the cap
tivation and cumpai ns of the opportunists to use your vote
to the greateet pervice of your country, and for my mouor too.
lood for ver. woat for roduction
and lears For soverning
war is bein fou at out vith the blood shed I soloiers.
roduetion is being currled cut with the sweat of induetrial
workers. thus. toundation ur the country is to be laid cut.
but. ir politles do not uetlvely work on, the results of blood
shed and sweatins will te just sooilcd. are colitics lively ?
olitics shoule s p on mere rectical reblems ratver

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
4
- 25 -
than on lofty theories and high ideals. Mave cur seheol beye
and girls enough lunehes to eat ? Is ration of food for werk-
ing olass reasonable for the volume of his labor ? Is mourish-
mont for mothers and baby's milk well taken oare of ? Are
vegetables, fishes and other foods supplied smoothly ? To solve
such day-to-day problems eb uld be the aim of politios of today
in an emergenoy time.
another important problem for residents of citios is the
conversion of busineus of amall merehants and fectory-owners
in a plansed rogramue. iere we need politics und administre-
tion directly based on the condiclons of the poople. sithout
satisfactory solution or this roblem, no accumulation of war
potentials of the peoole to back us the great military opere-
tions cannot be honed ror. but, here we noed "administration
with tears". Unless we manuge tho afrairs with murn heart
fully entering into the conditions of the people, it would be
impoesible to cultivate economio potentlals and encourage pro
duction with the result thet tno internal breakdown will make
it imnoeslble to ficht out the acific wer to its end.
Listribution of woods sowadays is nut soeotnly conducted
in our national economy.estdents in tokyo are unable to buy
fresh vegetables shile thoy are pile: u,  igh in the farming
diatricts. Fiehee and meats arc very seldc seen on diining
tables of the cltlzens wt ile they are consumed in abundance in
samo quartere. these are only femiliur exam les. fhese are

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.93)
4
P
-12 -
due to improper set up of offlcial priees, prefestarel bleskmés
system and insuffieient allowance to cest of freight in'the
prise systen. It is polities te rectify these and adjust the
situation in a wey convineing to all. It is politios, if goods
are scaroe, to distribute them in a fair may.
Under the pressure of the time and enforcement of rigid
control, oommercial aotivities nave gone to deeay. kerohants
have become a clerk and a conveyer of coods. Stores have become
e distribution office. lHousewives now have to waste long hours
and do a big labor in obtaining rations. Intrinsically and his-
torically. ccmmeroial activitie amootl up ciroulation of goods.
If ocmmerce is more active, ciroulation of goode will beodme
more active. suyers and sellors can transact each other mil-
ingly. suyers no longer need to line up. They will be more
friondly each other. laterrupted circulation of goods can be
compared with interrunted ciroulation or blood of human body.
It causes various diseases. it is essential to cure this
origin of diseases. It, however, requires strong oolitical
nower and intelligent admlnstration entering into human psy-
ohology. a quack is most dungerous.
Aumen belngs, similar ds a hation, have an Lmstinct and
a desire to live. it vill be a wistake to simoly call it indi-
vidualism. if a netion has no cesire. it will lead to a matio-
nal ruin. seko Yasaru (a well-known old Jacanese philosopher)
once told about morit of cesire as follows.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.91)
-187
"Desire is a human eaotion outwardly expressed.
Nan without desire is not human. Too mush desire is
called obsession. Too less desire is also called ob-
session. If a man loses hie want and desire, order or
the ruling end the ruled will give its may and oriterion
of good and bad will be loat. Thus, beaven and earth
will overturn u! side donn and the sun and the moon will
foll on earth."
Competition to live is a uutural phenomona between indivi-
quals as sall as botween nations. Jananese Navy and army are
oyul ped with bost instru ents of war as a result or competi-
tion between nations to win u war. Larehall werin of Jermany.
who is regurced to vo the orl inater of "control". is reported
to have nce remarked, when ne was watenings the vlym ie, that
"No development without ca etition". Lesire to live worke in
a racing as a desire to win.
Controllec scony under wnion we live today is a temno
rery war measurs ursuant to sationel obilization net and
rempurury sssures -et. nforcesent r national ur ose in-
evitebly saoririces tndiviaual mesire, vut no setioal urpose
oen be accowslisned without houlthy and seliu i cividuals.
Have teurs in a in istracion. ho adminiatration is alive
in defiance of huan cmolion. ii uny dovernment is cxm lecent
in cefiancc of humen emotion und traditions, it will lead to a
danger of eventual soetruction of boautiful Japanese ancestral

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.90)
★
- 188 -
rolieso
Tears for ver-seas Administration
Basic factor of national prosperity is in the due rempeet
or the people's will. This is true even with dictatorial me-
t1ons suoh as Germany and Italy. So mueh more true is this in
a country like Japan where people's right 1s guaranteed by na-
tional constitution. mundrods or abuees oricinate in an ad-
ministrution which dieregards actual conditins of the people.
Five years or tnina incinent have developed into the pre-
sent aciric ar snd future ronecte are hoverul by sccuring
overseas torritories, thalks to our militery sunre ucy. But.
if we fail in iatelligunt cclonicl edministration to back up
such military succeas, the rosult will te fatal.
at present, militury administration is in foree in the
touth cea sccupled territories. this is, however, a temporary
measure accordin. to runier fojo's statocent io she -iet und
it is a propor iduu that tee overmout expoctr to trunsfer it
to civilian edministrotions in due course.  any civilians
already are cnguaed in she military ucmi lstrative Locles.
Perhaps. more civilians will de motilized in future. it is
ds egually im rtunt to rer nset t e eople s will im over sees
ac inistrations pa in deotlc. mut. st cecord t ur civilian
adelnletratle such a i urmosa. orea.  anctdria. Chine
and otter slnces sns that sbey ure stilr lachi ln experi

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.91)
2
- 10.
ences and immature in ideas. Past is beyond reeall. We muss
apply past experiencs» more effectively in future and repless
imuature ideas with matured. Ranges of vision of bureaueratie
offioials are not broad enough. Intelligont &tatesmanmhip is
to be elpeoted to duke up defiolenoy of such bureauereey.
The Governent offioiale and military men now appear to
be poeins aut to re est their wistakes or the pest in South
Seas administrations. if so, that is all the more good. But,
we should keep always olose attention and wateh on burebuoratie
administrations.
Feoplee of the ocoupied territories have their own religion.
manners and custos. it is not necemsury to keep order over
them. If we ake u mese of it by controlllng them in the usuel
manner of Japanese polioe, the result will be to uselessly
inour ill feelings of the inhatitants. They have their own
trucitions and calculatlons fi ted to their living. ithout
careful consideration, we will simply suepend circulation of
neceesary goods for this country and incur unfevorable ill
feelings of the inhabitants. it will be an easier matter if
they telongs to one race under a sole ruler lino Ja pan, but in
those overseas territories where creat many kinds of peosles
ure living togsther, ubual Jasanese ways or acministration will
simply result in lost lstor ane acverse effect.
fter oanstant nati al routh and ceveloment from ino
Je aneze and susso-ja anese ars, urid ar-l.  anchurien and

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.91)
-150 -
China Inoidonts leading up to the present Paeifie War, Japam
is no longer an island empire. Japanese now should threw mmay
its insular mindedness and should be more continental, .eseesie.
audaclous, pertinacious, generous, composed and tolarant metiem.
way of thinking to have "teare for administratlon" should nos
to li 1ted to home alone. Have tears also toward non-hostile
inhebitants in overseas territorles and treat them with warn
hesrt, thus securing lesting imperial reign.
sut, in so saying. i am not advoouting unconditional
aternalism nor liboralism. hat 1 mean is not to atiok to
trifles, while holding tlgntly the pivot of the fan of poliey
with derinite set u and plans. The soint is that I wish to
advooate ts eliminale abuses of bureaucratic administration
in overseas territories as well us at home. y oninion rele-
tive to bureaucratle system ls more poignant and ungent, but
I um itting them in the presest aodress in the ho e that
tois my print will roaon you as soun us sossitlo.
omericanritich ction
er m.oule be the rinal ster. Livl atle und voliticel
nesotiationt must ee Tirst. in the lust orld ar l, Japan
Fought ucainst cermany to et er witi. tho llies - wmerlca.
nland. vranou und italy. lt mus als with the current of
the time. in tue present  orld ur il. we are rightins against
merica and meland in lie with verany and ltaly. it is also

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.91)
-131-
along the ourrent of historioal inevitebility.
It is ridieulous that same people are holding their heeds
high themselves by classifying same Japanese into faotions to
be called as German-ltalian and Amerieun-British factions. Im
my opiniom, ell Japanese are but Japanese except Marxists. I
often received kind advices to be careful because I am olassi-
fied as american-britis! laction. I travelled several years
ago weatorn uro e und umerica and I was impressed with flush
of national youth of new Germany and Italy as I wrote in my
book "visage or the world". according to my book. I might bo
called as verman-ltalian fuction. hame on them. I ridiculo
anything of the sort of political tratagem to overthrow me
through slanders.
1 am a believer in negotiutlons taruug ciolumatie channele
in settling international disoutes. pots vonoye and fojo
Cabinets probably nad felt in the similar way as both have
conducced a continual und strenusus diplatic ne stiations
between mericen and pritish Joverents. hus tie ar was
the lest and final ste es stateu in the la sevial . os sa e of
v0cember8, l941.
"Unfortunstely war is hereby declaren tetween the
United -tates ur aerica und angland. It is a cireus-
atence or inevitetle ceatlns wad nst y prlnrs will."
The roblems coula not be setsled dl l atically ad ar
was declared.
ce m crlal ses 1s lseued, there is nothing

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.91)
y
● 158-
es American-British faction nor any other fastion. We mst
fight out tho Har.
under present situation, a man will be a traitor and be
disroyal to his country if he still belonge to American-British
faction. I do not mind any defanmtion but I do want to remerve
my right to be royal to my country. Thanks to good luck. The
Navy attaoked earl arbor at the outset of the War assuring
a singal suoceas, sunk British war-ships Prinoe of wales and
hepulse ofr the coast of alay Peninsula and wiped out Allied
fleet orf Jave ccast. fhe Aray also successfully attaoked
Hungkong. Lanila and -ingupore in concert with the Navy. Thus.
Greater Far ast now has becone a sphere of Japanese influenoo.
God bless you. 1 huve my sunalso in the service as Navy Liou-
tenant in the south. hen I see him in uniform, I feel some-
thin: sanotity.
as cenerally kn wn,  anchurian and China Incidents were
caused by their anti-Ja anese sontiment instiratec by ngland
and americe and we no longer cun do pend ubon their fidelity.
I was oncs chief ccretary under lunake Cabinet. leople de-
nouncec it ut "a reactionary cabinot". "hy ? leinly speaking.
Tanake Cabinet sent troo.s to hantung, Chind. hie was followed
by doath of o an Tso-lin in en exolosion. fo the people's
eyes, his policy to liguluate lne sut-umerican and eub-british
diplonatic polioy mas mirrored as "reactionary". Eut, how
about today ? Japan's vorld polley as cesigned ty Tanaka
wabinet ia now steadlly beins materialized. in lookings baok

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.90)
7
- 188-
those days of a decade ago, I am all the more struek with the
change of the times and the vacillation of eriteriem.
I am accustamed to criticism and cesaures sinee I mas.
young and they do not bother me. But, my friends are solleitons
about myself and advised me to, more briale my tongue and dio
guise myself in a worlcly wiscom. ut, iuborn nature of man
cannot be easily onanged unless he is coffined. i know it is
not a worldly wisd. 1 liow it is politically disadvantegoo
to mo. Yet. 1 do not think i quit to be a man of justice and
expoetulation.
"aton cdnusists ovement isguised
under the Name of heromm
There are coamunists movement undorersund on its wey dis
culsed under te pame of rerormation lmposing upon the op ortu-
nity of the ar. they are mout dious and cetestatle and are
most dengorous craiture wlthin the wulls. avy (a tain Miraido.
mookesman fr the Havy. saio taru oye aio on pril lo
of this year that "internal reform is necessary to lead the
war in our favor. sut. we wust avert any unnecessur reform
whioh weakens the natlon's mur oteatluls. it saould not be
a reform merely for a reform it chould not be a reform to
utilize the wur for a reior for the pur ose uf iaternel re-
rcaniztion"
Navy Captain siraico perhas ulu not refer to ln hio

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.87)
- 134 -
remarke particularly to cmunists movement. Yet,m
well aware that there is no gain in a reform morely for e roe
form and more dangerous are the coimunists activities dimgaieed
under the nae of rerorlu. 1 believe that most striet eautiom
and study are required in this respoot.
...o0o...

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.88)
- 12 -
APENDII
R
N AY TO GOVAHNDENT POMER
:om Ap11 18. 1946 1su of Ak
(ed slag), tentral tommunists Paper
oublished in Tokyo
natoyama, resident of Liberale rarty. now No. 1 party
aftor eieotion, is so eager these days to form his own eabinet
of, anti-comuniam. ut, he is e lo per cent war criminal.
If he cote to power, he would simply be a tool, like shidehare.
of aicatsu families and bie land owners and will maxe people
starving and will tram le tueir fresdom under foot. averybody
who knows about his political career and his usual way à con-
duct thinks so.
Le was a satellite or axu wori who put up ry cenoral
licni ranaka us resident of eiyukal Party and who frae early
years natoheo tne plot f invasion on the Continent., latoyame
was chier ecrotury of Lanakn cabinet whion wes the first mili-
tary governcent.
it was mori who instigateo agitation in anch.ria, set
fire to assussination f Gchoral Chang ieo-lin and Tsuinan
Incident wilioh cave funeka excuse to send troon to China. thus

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.91)
. - 13 •
opeming up way for Japamese invasion on the Comtinents
In l927, fanaka Cabinet summoned up so-ealled Sastemm
Conferense for deliberetions on programme of «orld Canquest.
Japanese military oncratione since Manehurien Incident up to
Facific far were all nothing more than a faithful fulrillmont
of this programme. catoyame who perticipated in all these as
Chier Jecretary or fanaka cabinet has no exouee to deny any-
thing
Hatoyuma rurter crove one or the most progressive pro
fessors out of ayoto Laperial University, handing hin over to
the hands of reuotionelists. he has no right whateever to
claim himsell as a literalist. hers is an interesting story.
When ioho Lovies planned to dramatize this event into a story
titled us "season in mell", an unnamed person oalled on foho
office with an orrer of Yen 2.,u cesh asking oroducers
to stop the work. foho, of course, aidn't acceet it. who was
behind this unnamed caller is too cleur to all.
natoyama cluims hinsolf that ne opoossod to dictatorship
and that he wus nut reco onded ty fojo in tre election. But.
real rosson me did nut side with fojo was that he. together
with luku -orl. war a pamtnen or it. cenural unji Ishiwara
(ohlei ilicur of wantan rmy at the tle of ancnurien im
cident and its ringleacer) who was renoened op ohent to rojo
and not tecause he o posed to aietusorsnin
here le e solis vindlontion. it is his cock Visage of

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.92)
一.1-
she world", his diary of trip abroad. He was filled wita
admiration on regime of Hitler and Massclinl. He preised thm
as saviours and great leaders of their natiens. When he ans
Hitler, he "ttanked him in the name of Japamese natien for-
his friendehip toward Japan" and he warned "Japanese nation
should oulture the mind and not betray this belief of Hitler".
Batoyama further referred to Mussolini's invesion inte
tiopia which re launohed vithout eonsulting his people and
praises ais ss "such is the roal diotutor", celebrated him as
"a grest maln or tne age" and expressed noping" bis good bealth
for the eake or Italy and her people."
ac personal emteeary of Kocoyo. he manouvred During bis
trip to smooth up anti-Japanese movement in various foreign
nations. He tried to persuade Governments and politioians of
various countrles by saying "China has no ebility to survive
as a single and united nation. China bas only one choise
either to survive under influence of Soviet or nder Japaneme
protection" und entronted verious Governments for supply of
mitis toJ
after returring: Juoan. he ep ealed to Japaneeo publie
through Jk hook-up that "Jupanese nation should mobilize
spirit of sacririce und materials for natiunal defenee". Can
we have suoh a mun amoue us as partuer or peolrists ?
anotner strong eviccnce that ne is not a pecifiat, but,
on the coutrary, e stern militarists ranking with any other

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.90)
- 138 -
in she lest elsction. In shis address, he stressed "natim
should do their utmost in crder to fight out war" mad flassesed
himself by stating "Sorld Polioy deaigned by Tanake Cabimes
has no ravived and 1e alive."
It 1s positively notleseble that in his mailed addrees
Witsuru Toyamm, the woll-known big boss of the rightiats and
Seizo Lobayashi, formerly President or Yokuse1 Ka1 (Imperial
Rule Politieal →escciation). toth signed their names with
others as his "sunporters". Sare self-styled liberelist has
shown his eloven hoor.
Hatoyamu ls a big absent land owmer is Hokkaido of more 
than Zue "ohos". Dut, how he finanoed bis oampeign fund which
he epent like mater in the oloction ? #idely known is the faet
that one of his relatives Ishibashi who Is Prasldent of Aaahi
Tabi Com any ls cne or his finanoial wupportors. mie relation
with Sanji lehihura, howover, ives reesons to belleve that
Eanohurlan Heevy industrial Levelopuent Cumpany of sl.lon Gisuke
-yunawa mas the rosldent and vsne aruohi Cotton plnning
Compeny or whion hins o rsude was the resicent were also his
"1lk 0o8".
«itt all these in coneidcration, it is vury much conceiv-
able that coming unti-ocmmunists netional oubimot which is now
in procesa of formation by hatoyame with Liborals arty as
pivot is nothing tut unother Tojo tabinet dieguiscd nder a
mask of demooracy. if suoh a cabinet is organized, they will

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.82)
- 1 -
bind cur people hand and foot and will drive us shres times
to war. Let us purge him from polities through the influsses
of publio opinion accusing him as War Crimimal and Diotator /
.....

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.92)
-140-
APPLDILO
DATRCT FRON LSTTER E TAIKICHIRU TAGARA
Dated "kiddle-day of November 19se"
"at the time of Washington Conference in 198l, I romember
that I was questioned at a certain meeting about liberalim in
Japan. I told my audience that they should not take Japanese
Liet has many liberaliats, although Japanese visitors to
merica may claim to the contrary. I further told them that
in my opinion Japanese iet may have only from half a domen to
a dozen of liberalists and still Japanese have so little under
standing about what liberalism is. This my statement apparently
gave a eurerise to thes and same asked me who are those liber-
ulists. i told them Yukio -zaki, cokudo inuksi and some others
and, as umong younger roup, your nao - Lohiro atoyama".
"I still believe you are one or the few outstanding liber-
alists of this oountry. You were a persistent udvooutor of
liberulism even when liberalism has gone to decay under the
pressure of the time folloming the China Incident und degener
ated party politics. You unreservedly ascalled. ut the zenith
of power of Tojo. those opportunists' coeroion, nar ow-mlnded-
ness, prejudice and dogxatism. You oan be rest assured that
you have been a stuborn liberalist all throughout sast years

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.92)
-4-
is an established reputation".
"kr. Yukie Ozaki is our most respeeted leader. He recently
twice asked me hom you are getting along these days after purge
and what is your future plan. lie 1s very much anxious te kmew
about it. he told me that this is a good time for your intre-
speotion for a re-birth and a re-start".
Taikiohiro Tagawe

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.92)
- 142 -.
TRANSLATION
pr11 20, 1947.
To Shigeru Yomhida, sq., Prime Minister,
Japanese Government, Tokyo.
Supplementing my plea and application dated
baroh 17, 1947. I sutmit herewith Appendix P as
per attuched.
Iohiro natoyama

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.88)
. - is -
APPKNLI P Mamerandum by Jiro Hosh1jima Relative
to Taisei Seijikai evidenoing that I hed no hand
in Tojo administrations at any time.
lchiro latoyame

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
- 144 -
APPENDIX P
MEMUR NLU BY JIRO HOSHIJINA
RELATIV TO TAISEI SEIJIKAI
Maroh 26, 1949.
Following formation of Taisei Yokusankai (Imperial Rule
Assistance Association) in 194, Yokusan Ciin Lomwi (Imperial
Rule ssiatanoe Liet embers League) was organized on
Saptember 2. l94l, enlisting toth members of House of Repre-
sontatives and House of Peers.
e oppositions to iaisei Yokusankai again declined to join
Yokusan Giin Lome1, since this body was nothing more than an
extension of Taise1 Yokusankai. Instead we organized separately
on November 10. 1941 Lokokai with 35 members including those
members like myaelr. Ichiro iatoyama, Seijun Ando, Koku Kawaaeki.
Totsu Katayama, Reikiohi kita and others. We registered this
Dokokai as a body unit in the Liet.
Un April 30, 1942, Lojo Goverument dissolved the Diet and
ran & general election then called as "Reoommended lect1on".
Mombers of Dokokal, howevur, were tranded as "non-cooperatives"
to Tojo Government and naturally were not "recdmended" by his
Government as "authorized candidates". Instead, the Covern-
ment, through all possible means, intervened in our election.
The result was that 33 members of Lokokei fell off to only 9

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.95)
-3 .
after the eleetion. As it is required to have the mimimium
number of as maabers to be qualified as a body unit in she
Diet, we dissolved Dokokai on Nay 14, 19as. It mas trans-
formed into a club organization and re-named as Shimaikmi.
opening up its club roam in the Sanno Hotel building. Tokye
At that time, Yokusan Giin Domei was also reorganised as
Yokusan Seijikai (Imperial Rule Politioal Asscciation) to
support more effectively Tojo policies. Pramoters of the
reorganization, however, explained that they know the eritieimm
againat the past election, that they are willing to correot
the abuees and that the nes association will be organized as
a sort of politioal olub in nature.
Thus, Yofu Kanemitsu, one of the leaders of the now asso-
oiation, asked me to join it. He further asked me to perauade
Latoyame to join it. nanemitau was sympathetic tonard Hatogamm.
I talked over this first with Hitoshi wshide. Both came to an
agreement of osinion in accepting the solicitation in viow of
the reduced umber of our associates and the prasised change
in the attitude of the organizers of the association. Soijun
Ando and voku kawasaki also agreed with us to join the assooi-
ation. uf these two, ando was first very reluctant but finally
gave wey to the strong persuasion by his constituents.
latoyame stubbornly declined our solicitation. put, we
did not went to leave him alone. in fact, without him. our
joining the association could not have muoh sense in it. I

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.91)
-148-
remember I and lahida wopt over this. Fipally, after conselt-
ings among our friends, we desided to register his name in the
association in our arbitrary proccedings. And we did ao with-
out his consent. Hatoyamé was generous enough not to give 
a good soolding for what we have done against his will and
for some time left the thing intact. Later, however, he meeeded
from Yokusen Seijiku.
Jiro lloehijima

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.98)
SELECTIONS FROM PERSONAL DIARIES
1938 - 1942
Ichiro Hatoyama

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX Q
SELECTIONS FROM PERSONAL DIARIES
1938 - 1948
These seleotions evidence that (1) I was against the
Pacific War and, in several oocasions, tried to avoid its out-
break; (2) had no relation whatsoever with Taisei Yokusankai
(IRAA) and Yokusan Seijika1 (IRPA); (3) alwaysowanted peace
and advocated freedom and hated violence and dictatorship;
(4) opposed to tri-power alliance; (5) supported the observa-
tion that Naziam is a national Bolshevism; (6) acoused bitterly
degenerated House of Representatives in the hands of opportunistie
and ingratiatory politicians; (7) studied for more than 10
years on things Soviet and had a fair knowledge on the Soviet
internal conditions and (8) acoused bitterly Konoye-Kido faotion
in course of formation of Tojo Government.
Ichiro Hatoyama.
July 31, 1947.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
·SELECTIONS FROM MY PRIVATE DIARIES
1938 - 1942
Iehiro Hatoyama
CHAPTER I 1 9 3 8
In 1938 Seiyukai broke up into two faot-
1ons - one lod by Chikuhei Nakajima and
the other led by myself - an outoome from
series of fight between non-parliamentari-
anists and parliamentarianists within the
party. I find most of the pages of my
1938 diary are filled with remarks on such
inner political strugele. My mother died.
also in 1938. Thus, in this selection,
only few pages are reproduced for 1938.
I returned from my trip abroad on February
2 of this year, so that the present diaries
are to be regarded as sequal to my book
"Visage of the World".
Tokyo, Friday, February 4.
Called on Ambassador Grew to return his courtesy. He
showed me a great pleasure.
Had one hour and half telk with Vice Minister Hotta of

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
the Foreign Orrice. Glad to kmow about gradual shange im t
anti-British attitude of the militarists.
Tokyo, Sanday, Apr1l 24.
Read "The Faith of An Englishman". It says in part:
"It is leaning too muoh upon a rule of oonduot whieh
is more oonoerned with what to be avoided than with
what to strive for and aohieve."
All very true. But, nowadays there are too many people who
are doing "what to be avoided". We all should have "const-
ructive impetus, the beckground of faith and spur to action
which we imperatively need".
Karuizawa, Tuesday, August 9.
Former Ambassador Yoshizawa came at 2.30 p.m. Told the
true cause of China Inoident is likely to be more "domestio"
(militarists' intrigue) and he several times indirectly ad-
vised Konoye about injustification of its expansion. We cha-
tted until evening. Didn't know time passed so soon.
CHAPIER II 1 9 3 9
Tokyo, Monday, January 30.
Reading Mitohel's "Gone With The Wind". Heard soft but
solemn tune of funeral music in the neighborhood. Oh. it

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.98)
tells ashes of Fujita, Jr. and others arrived frem the
Found myself praying for the perpetual repose of their souls
in gratitude of their fine spirit of maerifiee and natiomal
service.
The musio continues. Don't know why musio so deeply
touches one's heart. Can fully share the sadness of their
families. Konoye and other leaders of today, do they weep if
they know this ?
Tokyo, Tuesday. January 31.
The mpress Dowager's verse as announced at the New Year'
Imperial couplet party appeals to me profoundly. "Island in
the Morning Sun" is the theme.
"Shimabito mo Asahi no Hikari Awogitsutsu,
Machi Wataruran Nami Sasanu Yo o."
"Looking up high in the morning sun,
Even Islanders might have been waiting.
A World that is calm and pacific."
Tokyo, Monday, February 13.
Yoshida (last Premier) expressed the opinion that he
opposes to Japanese alliance with Germany and Italy. He
thinks it would endanger Japanese relation with Soviet.
Tokyo, Friday, March 10.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
Papers report Chiang's success in getting baek Bmenst
now ecmpletes his long-term defence programme in fighting with
Japan and this should be noted. Can we believe it ? Was
British loan to China for foreign exchange stabilization made
in antioipation of this ? Appears that Japan needs an overall
reconsideration of her policies toward China, and a big turn.
Tokyo, Sunday, April 2.
Ueda came. Told atanabe saw Home Minister Kido, warning
him about the danger of Japanese alliance with Germany and
Italy in case of dispute with others. Kido replied he can
understand the point, but both Oshima (Ambassador to Germany)
and Shiratori (Ambassador to Italy) came back ignoring in-
struotions; the result will be a birth of a military oabinet
and inevitable conclusion of some sort of an evasive tri-power
pact. This his weak-kneedness and his irresponsibleness have
thrown this country into present fix. We are sick of this
haphazard and shedy politics.
Tokyo, Tuesday, april 4.
Went to Kamakura by 10.52 train. et Iwanaga. He said
the new tri-power military paot will be signed with some equivocal
olauses that from Japan's side it is a pact against Soviet
and from their sides against other powers.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
3
Tokyo, Thursday, May 4.
Ozaki's new verses.
"I no Soko o Ideshi Kawazu no Isamashiki.
Zo mo Kujira mo Hitonomi to Yu."
"So Gallant and chivalrous
were the frogs (militarists),
Just came out from the bottom of the well.
They talk they can swallow in,
Snapping even an elephant or a whale."
"Sake o nomi Tabako o Fukashi Geisha age,
Takaku Utauyo Hijoji No Uta."
"Drinking, smoking and calling in geishas.
Thus they (militarists) sing loundly,
The Song of Emergency."
Such a nice satire of today and severe enough.
Tokyo, Saturday, May 6.
First we must shut out all those who rely upon violenoe
and plutocraoy. A National unification never demands subju-
gation to violence and plutocracy. Let all injustices go to
the Hell. We must create a true and royal unifioation of the
nation built up on justice and human morale.
Karuizawa, Thursday, ugust 10.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
There is one thing which we should first grasp if we wams
to live in human way. It is called a fact or a reality. 
man who never tries to know about the reality must know that
he is living in a day-dream, or vision or the moonshine. My
strongest warning to Japanese is that they have wrong notion
of "the grace of Heaven" and of their egotism or self-coneeit.
It looks to me as if they don't want much to know about the
fact, that is, the orld's conditions in reality.
Karuizawa, Saturday, September 23.
Raining. Quiet day. Good for reading.
Wolfe's "Europe's Secret Nightmare" in June issue. of
Harpers was most interesting. While Molotov calle Nazi leaders
as "modern cannibals" at 1936 Moscow Assembly and Hitler calls
back Soviet leaders as "group of criminals" at 1937 Neurenburg
Nazi meeting, olfe warns about the danger of alliance between
the two great dictators of the two greatest totalitarian coun-
tries. because they are the two greatest practical politioians
of the world.  wonderful perspioacity and foresight.
e should be ashamed or "joining and parting" only for
self-interest. But, we cannot live in this world without
knowing it. That's why I prefer to stay in Karuizawa.
Karuizawa, Monday, Ootober 9.
Konoye came at 1l.30 a.m. Told political opinions are

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
upset by pros. and cons. on tri-power alliance and anti-Briti
and Ameriean polioy with the danger that the way will.be led
up to a national orisis; that those rightists who have ehanged
their coats from the left all favor the tri-power sllimnoe;
they olaim the New Order in the Far East can be aohioved only
by shutting out England and America (they now say "England and
Amerioa" instead of "England", because they began to realise
that separating America from England is not feasible) and
Soviet will never transplant Communism in China. Further told
others like Cabinet Counoillor Matsui have filed an opinion to
Premier that Japan should ally with Soviet and Germany to wage
a war on England and America.
Darkness simply follows one after another, unless the
whole matter is freely disoussed and only those who have the
greatest support of the people run the Government. Afraid
that the country will eventually drift into an abyss of misery.
we need a Madam Curie.
Karuizawa, Sunday, otobor 29.
Read "amerioa and the World's Crisis" in September issue
of Round Table. as judged from sentiment, America of today
1s much less neutral than she was in 1914. Must know America's
renunciation of l9ll Treaty with Japan is a far stronger warn-
ing to this country than her embargo on munition exports to
other totalitarian countries. Americen public today weleomed

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.95)
2
X
and supported thes Government's aetiom in renoumeing the treaty.
Ameriean missionaries, diplomats, pacifists and all others mave
joined in a movement for an overall embargo on experts te Japam.
They further urge America should speed up her greater armaments
and concentrate her naval power in the Paoifie.
Such is the sentiment in Amerioa. For several years,
C
Japanese Government has gone a reckless road. They were irre-
sponsible and thoughtless.
Tokyo, Wednesday, December 20.
"News Age" of this date carried an artiole oalled "Poli-
tioal Prostitute". A good and true story. Some of the poli-
ticians of today, inoluding very prominent men, certainly
beat prostitutes in their way of fowning upon the militarists.
Tokyo, Friday, December 22.
October number of New Republic says in its editorial that
Nazi will gradually turn into "a nationalistic Bolshevism".
A correct prophecy.
CHAPTER III 1 9 4 0
Tokyo, Sunday, January 15.
Yonai Cabinet formed. Glad to know Matsuno became a mem-
ber of the Cabinet as Railway Minister.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
入
A
Same one predicted at Hoshigeoke meeting that Germem
situation will develop into communistio chaos; Germany has ms
chence and the European War will result in the Allies' vietery
within this year and that England and Ameriea will then turn
to Japan to demand her evacuation from China. Hence a big
politioal change.
Only what is true is that those who support Japaneme-
German Alliance or Japanese-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact are
speculating and deciding things for self-interest.
Tokyo, Monday, January 22.
Quoting from Ambassad or Shiratori's speech:
"Japan, Germany and Italy share a common destiny.
If Japan makes a compromise with powers representing
Old Order of the World and opposes to those powers
representing New Order of Europe, she is striding.
against the current of history. I firmly believe
that we should not permit it."
This disturbed world, this transforming period is the mother
of such an argument. A terrible thing. Shiratori says Germany
does not care much about the Soviet-occupied Zone of Poland.
This is entirely contrary to what mbassador Sakao told.
Tokyo, Saturday, February S.
Yesterday Saito (Takao) was punished at the Diet for his

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
speech acousing "Wew Order in the Far East" as doubtful. the
great non-Diet pressure (militarists' influenee) brought upem
the case and the fact that even in the Diet so many members
have resigned themselves to the development as "no help", have
deeply impressed me that the Diet is no use any more.
When will again the Diet come baok ? When can Japanese
people again be kept informed about what is going on in their
national affairs ? As things are now, it is utterly hopeless
to ensure the whole-hearted support of the people to the Gov-
ernment. Without it, oan Japan fight through this greatest
event ever known to her history ? Finish.
Tokyo, Thursday, February 15.
Yomiuri says:
"Members quietly listened at the joint seoret meeting
of both Houses to what the Government says about the
Incident (China). It is not a black market but a
black-hand deal. The nation sitting in the deef
gallery is simply required to clap their hands like
hell."
Quite right.
Tokyo, Thursday, Maroh 7.
Saito (Takao) was expelled from the Diet. Only seven
blue ballots (oppositions) ! Many abstained from voting.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
1
At Ando's invitation, Wakamiye, Dehara, Morita. Magawa.
Makino, Ashida and Miyawaki joined the dinner in the eveming
All accused Kuhara and Okada as orazy in requesting five members
of the group to leave the party as they voted against the motiem.
What would oome next ?
Tokyo, Sunday, April 7.
Baba writes in Yomiuri's Sunday Edition:
"It is surprising that in past two or three years
we used to have such low level politics in this
country. Some one blazes a certain idea. Everone
knows from the beginning that it is folly. But,
the Government takes it up while nobody knows and,
when the Government takes it up, everybody applauds
1t. He might not support it in mind, but, at least
outwardly, he supports it.
"Present session of Diet deserves a good merit
in making it known that how silly plays are still
going on in polities. The fact that the Government
has ohanged every six months or a year is an unmis-
takable proof that their policy came up to a deedlook
every six months or a year.
"Somehow this folly must be remedied. They
seem to repeat only coming against the wall to turn
again. What this amonts to is that they are just

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
2
人
experimenting. The cause is that now amateur peliti-
oians (militarists) are playing the role."
This is a good argument, but, if Baba same day comes back to
renew his attack on "political prostitute" who bows and fla-
tters to suoh silly politios of amateur politieians, that will
please me more.
Tokyo, Wednesday, April 24.
Quoting from speach by the Seoretary of S.for F.A.at
Chatham House, June 29. 1939:
"None of us can in these days see very far ahead in
the world in which we live, but we can and we must
always he sure of the general direction in whioh we
wish to travel. Let us, therefore, be very sure
that, whether or not we are to preserve for ourselves
and for others, the things that we hold dear depends
in the last resort upon ourselves, upon the strength
of the personal faith of each one of us and upon
resolution to maintuin it."
Tokyo, Thursday, April 25.
Read Nicholson's "Winston Churchill". Churchill spoke
at the Parliament of November 25. 1932 about the German re-
armaments that Germany wants arns and when she gets the arms
Then British Government replied to him that this was

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
2
his "groundless apprehension" and it was "unpatriotie". Mem-
ever, this shows Churchill's great penetration.
His too lacute intellect and his attitude in proposing
a certain measure always have given him only half of the oredit.
and cooperation that he deserves from those whe are inferior
to him. He several times refused to yield to his party at
the expense of his own conscience. 
Tokyo, wednesday, June 19.
Shoraiso Shujin's "True Meaning of Freedom" in July 1ssue
of "Jikyoku" (The Time) is a good article, a courageous expres-
sion of thought seldom to see in these days. He says freedom
is a human instinot to enjoy a human existense instead of an
animal existense under dictatorship and a true liberalism means
a way to fulrill his duty as a constituent member of the society
and of the nation with a full recognition of his self-respeot
as well as respect of others. A thought to recognize his
self-importance as well as importance of others and to tolerate
others while perfecting his personal charactor is the true
spirit of liberalism."
Karuizawa, Monday, July 16.
Yamaura telephoned me in the evening to return to Tokyo
quikly as the Government may resign soon to be succeeded by
Konoye and a new party might be organized by him any minute.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
人
But, couldn't believe Konoye could have a free-hand in
the new government. The Army is overthrowing the Government.
Consequently the leadership will continually be held in their
hands. As I don't want to be mixed up in the trouble and waste
time, deolined to return to Tokyo.
Karuizawa, Saturday, July 6.
Had a telephone advice from Tokyo that an attempted ter-
rorists' plot was uncovered in relation to formation of the
new party. Most deplorable there is so much air of revolution
now in this country.
Reported France declared war on England. Also reported
France obtained a permit from Hitler to re-arm her naval fleet
while asking merica for a help. Crazy is French attitude.
She is a step short of a national ruin.
Karuizawa, Tuesday, July 16.
Had a telephone from liayashi and Tokyo home that Yonai
Cabinet resigned. He was thrown out by the militarists. How
long does this abnormality continue ?
Tokyo, Monday, August 5.
Morita and Hayashi were waiting at Ueno Station. ent
home together. Tanaka came. Conferred until 4 p.m. Decided
not to attend the meeting of New Reform Promotion League on

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
the 8th. but see first what New Reform is. Returned te
Karuizawa by 5.40 p.m. train.
Karuizawa, Sunday, August 25.
Hashimoto came after dinner. Told War Departmont and
Foreign Office spokesman said when members of the Promotion
League called on the Government that Japan must control by
force Dutch East Indies and in so doing they don't mind to
have even a clash with America. Further sa1d high officials
of the Foreign Office are resigning in protest but Premier's
(Konoye's) attitude is quite uncompromising. Troublous time.
Karuizawa, Tuesday, August 27.
Roturned Tokyo home where Morita, Ono, Hayashi, Oishi
and others were waiting from l.30 p.m. Agreed first see what
New Reform is and to fight it through if rumors turn to be
true about it. We need to prepare for action.
Left Ueno for karuizawa by 5.40 p.m. train. Met Kawasaki
and Speaker Matsudaira in the train. Both had same conoern
over the situation.
Karuizawa, Wednesday, October 9.
Fukazawa telephoned at 5 p.m. Said the Government is
offering to appoint all Diet members to Political Investigation
Committees of the new party requesting my toleration. Replied

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
eannot consent if it means my preliminary approval, as.I don's
know yet what New Reform is.
Karuizawa, Friday. Cotober ll.
Telephone from Matsuno. Told me not to send out letters
of refusal at the time of appointing members of our group to
Yokusankai (IR) membership.
Karuizawa, Tuesday, 'Ootober 15.
Wang Yeng Ming (Chinese philosopher) said:
"Nobody cannot be sure about his way until
he experiences it. Nobody cannot be sure
about his learnings until he lectures them."
A aonduat'without a thought is nothing more than an instinot.
A thought not filtered through experience is nothing more than
a talkativeness. When your thought is reflected to you through
an experienoe and when you know about its order and means and
end of it, then you know where you are.
When we lock at politics of today, it is surprising to
know how they lack in intellect and in action. It is unbear-
able that this country is to be dragged around by such a man
like Konoye.
Tokyo. Sunday. October 27.
ando came at 12.30 p.m. Told konoye murmured when he

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
入
saw him that the Government is at a loss what to do with
communist elements among officials of varions departments
such as Kikakuin, Naimusho and Shokosho and, to his serious
query about relation of Gikaikyoku (Diet Section) of Taise1
Yokusankai (IRaa) to the Diet, Konoye replied Maeda (then
Chief of Diet Section of IRAa and member of the Diet) perhaps
might have been in trouble. Ando told Konoye's whole disposi-
tion to all his important advices was as if Konoye thinks they
were not his business and was not that of a responsible man.
Konoye doesn't know a bit about his legal, moral and so-
oial responsibility as Premier of the Government. Piteous.
Deplorable. Detestable.
Tokyo, Monday, October 28.
Tsuchiya told a story the Soviet Commander-in-Chief in
anohuria recommended to Stalin, soon after the Manehurian
Inoident, to immediately smash the Japanese defenoe, but Stalin
overruled it saying if Soviet attacks the Japanese in Manchu-
ria now, all Japanese will unite to fight and Soviet is not
strong enough yet to defeat the Japanese. Instead, Stalin
direoted to sell the astern China ailway to Japan. thus
avoiding the war with Japan for three yeurs. Stalin thought
he could possibly break up in the meantime the internal system
of order of the Japanese army and then open right. This re-
port was made to the Japanese ilitary Councils meeting in

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
人
the spring of 1933.
Later developments in Japan were exactly as Stalin pre-
dioted. A formidably far-sighted man.
Tokyo, Friday, November 1.
Read Hanzawa's report on Commitern's aotivities in the
Far East. All what Japanese Government has done under Konoye
is to be identified with Commitern's thesds. e must fear of
this. Feel that the time I must serve the country even at the
risk of my life is now nearing.
Tokyo, Saturday, November 9.
Yoahizawa, Ashida, Fukazawa, Kono and Ishizaka all urged
that I must fight. Both Miyawaki and Yoshizawa were the opi-
nion that chances are thet Germany will lose.
Tokyo, Sunday, November 10.
The first Day of 26u0th. Year Anniversary at the Imperial
Plaza. Could not help to have tears when Emperor strongly and
emphatically read the message "be sure that you subjects con-
tribute to the welfare of mankind and peace between nations".
How did onoye and all others listen to the message and
what was their feeling ? The Japanese Government is just tak-
ing the other way, leaving Emperor alone in his distress.
Have they gone mad ?

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
Tekyo, Monday, November 1l.
The second Day of 2600th. Year Celebration alse at the
Imperial Plaza. Finest weather. Prince Takamatsu read his
address. His voice was full of confidence and was very impres-
sive.
Today again the Imperial message was read "Hope that
peace will soon be restored and I can share its rejoioing and
happiness with other nations". All nations of the World.
Particulary Chinese and Japanese nations and their leaders.
Know the truth !
Prince Ichijo, Jhara. Sawada. Tanaka and others all
expressed their hatred to Konoye's Shintaisei (New Reform).
Tokyo, Tuesday. November 12.
Read "The Hungry Europe: Shall We Let Them Starve. ?".
This merioan author discusses the unprecedented famine now
coming in Europe. No Japanese paper has reported about such
European danger. The ofricial control of the press in this
oountry forces us to lose our correct judgement.
CHPrx IIII 1 9 4 1
Tokyo, wednesday, January 1.
All editorials of newspapers are flattering to the ourrent
of the time. No interest.

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Hakone, Sunday, January 5.
Wrote up 16 page draft of speech to be used by Osaki at
the Diet. It raises two questions: First, what is Konoye's
eognizance on political party and, second, is not his New
Reform movement with Taisei Yokusankai (IRaa) as its. pivot a
violation of the provisions of Japanese Constitution and a
defiance of its spirit ?
Tokyo. Monday. January 20.
Reported there is a move to prevent Ozaki fron making
his speech at the Diet. hat a folly ? We have too many
fools in this country.
Reports circulate that the Government will suppress the
speeches at the Diet. hile they make me to feel badly, an
artiole in hochi evening edition has pleased me. It says:
"Nobody will think that Taisei Yokusankai (IRA)
is a Government Yokusankai. Ask the Government
any questions if they are to be asked and fully
discuss them. To decide matters upon the majority
of opinions was the fundamental thought of Meij1
Reformation. In short, Showa Reformation, if it
is to be advocated, should restore this principle."
Tokyo, wednesday, January 22.
A resolution was introduced in the Diet and all questions

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
2
by members were banned.
Essence of the speeches by the Premier and War Mimist
ean be summarised as saying Japan may fight any time with
America or Soviet, but tri-power allianse will be powerful
enough to defend the country.
There are so many questions to be asked about this. But
all questions were banned and held over. Do not understand
what kind of world is this.
Tokyo, Tuesday, February 4.
Called on Wakatsuki. (Refer to Appendix K of my Appliea-
tion dated March 17, 1947)
Tokyo, Wednesday, February 5.
Called on Admiral Okade. (Refer to Appendix J of my Appli-
oation dated March 17, 1947.)
Tokyo, Thursday, February 20.
Telephone from ashida ut night. rromised him to write
a draft of speech to be used by Uehars at the Diet. Spent
about one-hour and half in writing up several pages.
Tokyo, Saturday, February 22.
 week's battle to cut the budget for Taisei Yokusankai
(IR) ended today at 9 p.m. in our defeat. Only 54 ballots

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
with us. While the majority is supporting our motion in mind.
this result came out. Ridiculous place is the Diet.
Tokyo, Sunday, February 23.
Read "Organization Thesis" edited by Cammitern exeoutives
and translated by Toba. All arguments in this country on
national regimentations and Taisei Yokusankai (IRaa) look to
have been originated in this publication.
Tokyo, Thursday, February 27.
Invited for dinner at 5.30 p.m. at Ryukotei members who
voted for revision. Hayashi, Oishi, Ono, Tanaka, Morita,
Ishizaka, Mori and Seko came.
Tokyo. Monday. March 3.
Invited for dinner at my home those members who abstained
from voting and those who were forced to vote against the re-
vision. Guests included Shiokawa, Hoshijima, Morita, Shogi,
Kono, Fukazawa, Tachikawa, Hayashi, Matsuo, Tojo, Takizawa
and Ugushi.
Tokyo, Tuesday, April 8.
Read lexander Bermine's "scape from Stalin". Have
learned before from Krivitsky's "I was Stalin's gent" in
a
early part of March how Stalin is a man of Satanio diabolism.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Now this book impresses to the bottom of my heart how dreadful
is his hellish hand. Bermine begins his book by saying:
"Greece in early summer is a land of blue and golden
colors ...... It looks to be a part of the world
never stained with ill fate, misery and crime."
Such Greece is now war-ravaged. True is the saying that "the
future is a sealed book".
Tokyo, Saturday, April 19.
Waterfield describes in his book "Battle of the Rivers"
on General Delattre, a brave French Cammander who successfully
checked the German advanoe, end oontinues:
"But just as the French were beginning to recover
their oonfidence after the break through on the Meuse
and had been able to establish a line of defenoes,
there came like thunder olap the news of the surrender
of the Belgian Army at the order of King Leopold."
Waterfild further touches on the soene how Frenoh women list-
ening at a cafe to Premier Leynold's announcement over the
radio burst into crying. Cun well imagine how they felt.
Tokyo, Sunday, April 20.
In the last chapter of the book "Paris Could Be Dafended".
the following few pasages are worth quoting:
"Politioal system was rotten and it produced lead-

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
入
ers, with few exceptions, who were not fit to lead
a great nation. Freneh individualimm ...... she
had no longer the power to revolt against her leaders."
A good resemblanos to this country.
Karuizawa, Friday, April 25.
From Herman Ransohming's "Ver boten: The Book Hitler
Fears". (Quoting from this book began fran April 21)
"Nature is oruel. Therefore, we teo may be oruel.
Foreigners as serfs ...... never would concede to
other nations equal right with Germans. The Modern
Slave Class - The men of the Territories."
Tokyo, Sunday, April 27.
Hayashi and Horiguchi came in the morning. Horiguohi
told Frenoh anthlopologist Jandore explains in detail in his
study on Japan that Japan has a word "Giri" with a meaning
more profound. and deeper than English word "duty". But do
Japanese leaders of today know this "giri" ?
Tokyo, Saturday, May 17.
Borrowed from Yoshida Eugene Lyon's "Stalin". The author
oalls Stalin in his book as "omnipotent director of fantastic
conspiracy". Hight. And, Japan has entered with this man a
paot?

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, Monday, May 19.
Called on Chairman Hara of the Privy Gounoils in the
morning. Called on Yoshida in the after-noon and borromed
Wrenoh's "I Loved Germany".
Evening papers report Cordel Hull announced econamie
oonditions for peace in which he stressed importance of esta-
blishing a free trade system. It suggesta America still is
not abandoning her hope to adjust her relation with this
oountry.
Tokyo, Wednesday, June 25.
Read Woodhead's "The Nazi Fifth Column in Japan" in the
xaminer. He strongly warns this country by describing the
activities in Japan of the German Fifth Column.
Tokyo, Tuesday. July 8.
Sudo told Foreign Office officials are talking that if
Amerioa enters the Luropean War, Japan will declare war on
America "as a matter of course". I have been feeling relieved
as I thought this kind of idea has somewhat flagged. If it
rallies again, it fills me with a renewed apprehension.
Karuizawa, Saturday, July 12.
Read good part of Liddell Bart's "The Current of War".
Greatly admire his repeated warnings about the European War

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
X
and his opinions whioh he frequently published with the pre-
gress of the War. Feel Japan haan't got this kind of mam.
Disheartening. The author says in part:
"Those who call for a display of the offensive spirit
without regard to whether the conditions of a suecess-
ful offensive exist are more dangerous to a nation
than any Fifth Column. Unhappily. they have more
popular appeal than a Fabine Cundtator in the emo-
tional atomosphere of war time."
Karuizawa, Monday, July 14.
Read last night Kochler's "Inside The Gestapo" borrowed
from Asano. The story of their rash and reckless activities
like fury gave me so bad impressions that I couldn't have a
sleep last night because of their nightmares.
Karuizawa, Friday. July 25.
In sick-bed. Trouble with gall-bladder.
Heard from daughter arrived from Tokyo around noon Sub-
Lieutenant Tanaka and his body of men who were staying at my
Tokyo home have departed today to the front in several squads
between 6.30 a.m. and 2 p.m. as last unit. My daughter had a
big sympathy with them for their heavy packs on shoulders. .
But, how greater hardships unoomparable to it await on their
long way lying ahead ?

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
人
X
After all, life may not differ mueh from death. Qaly
we have to make their death worth to it. Categorioally it
would be the greatest and untolerable orime of all if we let
them die like falling leaves from the trees blown up by the
winds without knowing where to go and what for. One consola-
tion for me is that my folks, inoluding Chiyo-ko, all enter-
tained as much as they could not only those men who were
stopping at my house but also those who have gone in and out
of my house as their temporary headquarters.
Karuizawa, Sunday, August 3.
Most of the morning was fine weather, but it began to
rain, and rain heavily, in the after-noon. Long rains of this
summer have oorrupted the potatos in my farm. Can well imagine
the damage saused in the rice-fields. as Morita says. this
looks to be a Heaven's punishment on Konoye oabinet.
Cable information dated July 21 from Japanese mbassy in
London says Soviet now has escaped from the danger of occupation
of Mosoow by Germans and German losses to date inolude 1.500, 000
men, 3, O00 planes and 5, O00 tanks. What will be the future
of European War, of China Incident, of the Japanese economio
and industrial situation ? But, many Diet members are sleeping
on these subjucts and I think this is one of the reasons why
tone of the Diet is so low.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Karuizawa, Monday, August 4.
News cable of August I says, when Hopkings met Stalin.
he and Molotov "looked confident of viotory". Same souree of
August 2 says "Germans are now anxious about man-power" and,
among German war prisoners, there are 18 year old youth as well
as 50 year old aged soldier.
At any rate, it is a madness to send foroes to South and
North at one time through maximum mobilization. Does Konoye
think he oan do it ?
Karuizawa, Tuesday, august 5.
Yoshizawa came to inquire after my health. Told about
Japanese-Dutch negotiation that Matsuoka suspended it while
the parley itself came to almost a final agreement. Yoshizawa
complained there are too many lies in what the Government
announoes and he was extremely pessimistic over the future.
Karuizawa, Londay august 11.
Telephone from atsuno. He gave me reports on several
political moves, but suggested to keep quiet.
Karuizawa, Thursday, August 14.
Telephone from Hayashi and Seko that Minister Without
Portfolio Hiranuma was shot by pistol at his home at 8.30
a.m. this morning. Had same telephone from Izawa.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
May be militarisits did it. Unpleasant. So eritieal is
Japan!s future.
一
1
Karuizawa, Monday, Selptember 1.
Letter from Koji'ma:
"People are swimming with the current. "First Stone
(Hand) Polioy" by Tokutomi, the well-known oppor-
tunist, is an example. How can we foresee the way
ahead of us when the law of the time is laid down
by suoh irresponsible argument which gives no light
a step forward. I I once wrote a verse:
"No politioians know how to play "go",
Ten Years they are fighting.
But the same hollow."
Good words. Good argument.
.Karuizawa, Sunday, September 7.
Yasuoka's article in this morning's Yomiuri's Sunday odi-
torials headed "Prefers Good Lan Rather Than Patriot" is worth
quoting. He refers to the accusation to Sontoku Minomiya (a
noted Japanese philosopher and socfal worker) made by high
spirited leaders of loday who loudly travel around advooationg
reformation or restolation of sia. rhey accused inamiya was
nothing more than a farm manager, a villa e rerormer and, in
short, a tool of rullag class contented with the status quo

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
and a shabby utilitarian. Yasuoka commented:
"Those leaders, veiling their inner poverty of
thought, always force others to follow them in ele-
gant expressions of high-flown language by resorting
to a holy shelter (fenno) which nobody can object.
They are not interested in a quiet world. Thus,
they agitate to rejeot, or trap. good men in the
name of the nation. This is the greatest cause
that makes us siok and makes our living so unpleas-
ant."
The article is interesting. severely pointing out malpractice
of prosent day conditions.
Karuizawa, Tuesday, Sentember 23.
Watanabe quoted in his letter to me a line from wordings
of British Minister of Information that "an independent news-
paper is a guardian of the nation, but a subsidized newspaper
is a positive obstruction to a good ruling." But I want to
know how an indenendent political party can be compared with
a subsidized one.
Karuizawa, saturauy, tober 18.
Reported Tojo received Imperial Comaand to form a new
government. will history brand Lonoye as traitor ? Tojo's
inoapacities are well-known by his military record. Has Tojo

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
any vision, faith and courage in internal as well as interna-
tional politics ? 'Where and how far doss Kemoye-Kido faetion
want to drag this country ? Deeply lamentable is the power-
lessness of so-called "elder vassals".
Tokyo, Thursday, Ootober 30.
Tojo addressed to Taisei Yokusankai (IRaa) meeting that
"we must further develop this organization to oonoentrate
strong political power and exeoutive strength, transforming
it into a motivating organ of a national movement for holding
up our Imperial Rulo."
As anticipated, Tojo is transforming IRaa into a politioal
party for "one-party government". Now an action to ignore the
National Constitution is openly proclaimed by the Premier.
Tokyo, Friday, November 14.
Read "Must We Fight Japan ?" in the August issue of New
Ropublio. It urges an immediate overall embargo on Japan.
Japanese cabinets in the past several years are all to be
blamed in bringing merica to this point. So-called "new poli-
tical power" (militarists) is to be blamed for this.
Tokyo, Sunday. November 16.
Received following cable fron Manager Kano (of Yokohama
Specie Bank) in London:

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
"Time at last arrived when publie opiniens fully
awake to support you. Hope great statemanship will
direct polioy in right course and end predieament.
Confidont your courage and praying your perfeet
health."
Perhaps Japanese abroad will be looking at these conditions
.at home with graver conoern.
Tokyo, Monday, November 17.
Went to wedding dinner of Oshima's son at the Imperial
at 5.30 p.m. Met Hirota. He told he thinks Japanese-Amorioan
negotiation has not yet been driven to the corner and still
there will be a ohance to avoid the war.
Someone opined if Japan sends foroes to Dutoh East Indies
or takes over Singapore, Nangking Government will take a refuge
replaoed by Chiang and even Lanohuria is not safe with Soviet
Far astern army of 800, v00 men in adjoining area and subma-
rines at Vladivostok. He says Japan's position is oritical
enough without Amerioan and British fleets on her waters.
This sounds to be more true.
Hitler onoe remarked that public opinion is "perfunctory
in nature". Diet here of today is just as he says. Why po-
liticians of today lack in their spirit and idea to guide the
people ?

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, Wednesday, November 19.
At Diet, Miyazawa withdrew his speech and resigned frem
the membership as he was told to be expelled from the Diet
for the reason that he didn't know what he was talking about
in his speech. Suoh is an example of Yokusan (Iasa) politioians.
Here lies Japan's danger.
Tokyo, Saturday, November 29.
Called on General Mazaki at 9.30 a.m. (to do my share to
avoid the outbreak of war). He was extremely pessimistio,
believing that there are no means to prevent the war.
Saw Yoshida. He was very enthusiastic that war should
be avoided at any cost. Otherwise, he thinks, it will impli-
cate the Imperial Family in the trouble.
CHAPTER V 1 9 4 2
Tokyo, Wednesuay, January 21.
Only Okada was allowed at the Diet to ask questions to
the Government. Applications of Dokokai members for speech
were all overruled by majority votes. Could not understand
Okada's points of question. Nonsensical. No wonder why people
give up the Diet.
Tokyo, Thursday, February 19.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
Telephone from Matsuno that the Government mants to mak
a fullest use of Yokusankai (IRaa) in the eleetion and might
bring upon Dodokai a heavy pressure. This Government inter-
vention we can tell from the tone of newspapers of this mornims:
No words about such a militarists' plot to dominate the politi-
cal power, completely ignoring the spirit of National Constitutiom
and of late Meiji mperor.
Tokyo, Friday, February 20.
Had same telephone from Kono as Matsuno. He said he will
let Matsuno work for the new organization.
Tokyo, Friday, February 27.
at 1l a.m., conferred with Ashida, Ando and Soko about
statement to be issued from Dokoka1.
Had Dokokai meeting at Sanno Hotel at noon. Issued follow-
ing statement.
"e pronounce the official candidate reconmendation
system now under consideration by Yokusan leotion
Committee is contradiotory to Premier's promise at
the Diet. uspecially there is danger that it will
not only disturbs the national unifioation since the
war, but also will result in Government elected Diet
mombership. With due regard to the spirit of the
Constitution as well as to the present national

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
orisis, we declare we keep on olose watoh on the
future development of the situation."
Tokyo, Wednesday. Maroh 25.
Tojo's speeches at both Houses were out of question. At
the Diet, all quastions and motions from Dokokai were barred.
A great impertinence.
Tokyo, Wednesday, April 8.
Last night telephone from Ashida in Kyoto telling all
election mails were banned by the Government. Sent Harada to
Prosecutors Office and the Police Bureau for inquiry. Was
told that no criticism on Governmont policy will be permitted .
in mailing address, so that if comments on candidate reoommen-
dation system are struck out, the mails will be permitted to be
sent out. Didn't Tojo declare at the Diet the.Government has
nothing to do with oandidate recommendation in the eleotion ?
A Dark ge.
Tokyo, riday, May 1.
lootion results. was elected by highest ballots of
19.087. ando clected at over 15.00u. Tagawa defeated at 500.
"akamiya, Miyawaki. Ona Oishi. Uehara and others wore all
defeated. n atrocicus intervention.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo, Wednesday. May 6.
In the after-noon, oalled on Machida, Vehara, Wakamiya
and Yoshida. Machida said although he is not keen himself
about the new party now under promotion by the Government, he
might join it as he has only few followers opposed to it.
Found Nakajima, Uohida, Kanamitsu and Sakurauchi are all samo.
They are all nothing but opportunists unless they have the
oourage to sacrifice themselves.
Had many reports of the faots as if the past eleotion was
held under an anarchy or a dictatorship with all newspapers
at the meroy of the Government. What a shame.
Tokyo, Thursday, May 7.
More and more news are coming in about the outrageous
Government intervention. The Constitution was blown up. The
past election was not an eleotion. The Government better think
over the following verse by Rengetsuni (a well-known heroine
who killed herself in Meiji Reform fight).
"Utsu Hitomo Utareru Hitomo Kokoro seyo,
Onaji ikuni no Mitami Narazuya."
"Remember the slayer and the slayed,
You both are the same fellow oountry-men."
Karuizawa, Sunday, May 10.
Left Ueno for saruizawa by 8.10 a.m. train. Felt greatly

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
exhausted with the eleotion in whioh almost all of my frinds
defeated. Recolleot the following verse (of Kuniomi Hiramo).
"Kimigayo no Yasukariseba Kanete yori,
Mi wa Hanamori to Nariken mono o."
"If the world is peaceful and without event,
Would have been long before a flower raiser."
Tokyo, Saturday, May 16.
Now it is announced new party will be formed by Tojo for
political domination through one-party government. Under the
Constitution, the political power is vested in the Emperor.
It is unoonstitutional and is against our nationality that the
subject dominates it. Taisei Yokusankai (IRaA), as a publio
association, is going to become a tool of the new party. Isn't
thore any man who stens out to oppose to it ? Recollect follo-
ing verse of Shoin Yoshida (famed patriot in the later part
of Tokugawa Era).
"They (high officials of Shogunate) not only infringed
the Imperial Rule but impaired the credit of Shogunate.
They not only ignored the will of the lords and of
the people but subjeoted to the greediness of for-
eign powers. Heaven and Earth their guilty is opened
to no doubt. But, men are quiet and silent. Nobody
dares to go to them to hold them for oulpability.
Is spirit of justice of the nation ousted by injustice ?"

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
Xaruizawa, Sundaym May 17.
Left Ueno for Karuizawa by 7.40 a.m. train. Bad telepheme
from Fukazawa and Morita, both suggesting we jein the mew party.
Fukazawa was particularly enthusiastic while Morita was listen-
ing to what I say.
Karuizawa, Monday, May 18.
Had telephone early in the morning from my wife and from
Hoshijima a little before 9 a.m. Deoided to return to Tokyo.
though I don't want it, by 3.40 p.m. train, as arguments are
apparently becoming noisy whether or not to join the new party.
Arriving at Ueno at 7.10 p.m., went straight to meeting
at Naniwaya, Akasaka, where Ando, Kewesaki, Ashida, Hoshijima,
and Tanaka were waiting. Disoussed the new party problem.
Most of them were weak-kneed.
Tokyo, Tuesday, May 19.
Had discussions on new party problem at Sanno Hotel from
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Ashida and Hoshijima tried hard to persuade
me, finally with tears, to agree to joining the new party with
all others. Still couldn't find any reason to agree.
Called on Kojina and Vehara at Kojunsha Club to listen to
what they say about this. Both advised me not to join. Thon
saw Yoshida. He had same opinion.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo, Wednesday, May 20.
Ando, Ashida, Hoshijima, Tagawa, Kawasaki and Banto
gathered at my house. Ando changed mind since last night.
They all continued to urge that I change my mind too, oompar-
ing my position to that of Saigo at Shiroyama (who saerifieed
to kill himself at Shiroyama with his fellow-followers during
early Me1ji Era).
Later Ono, Seko, Iguchi, Hayashi, Takizawa, Hanamura and
others came to join the gathering as they were anxious about
me. Finally I consented not to stick to my stand as and if
letters of solicitation are sent out to all defeated members
of Dokokai to come with us.
Karuizawa, Monday, June 22.
"Anti Freedom" 1s the slogan of the time. Once "Freedom"
was a slogan for an outrageous revolution. Must watoh what
would follow the slogan "Anti-Freedom".
Karuizawa, Tuesday, June 23.
Must be cautious about the argwaents on "militury Govern-
ment" becoming more popular. Hidokoro has bitterly oriticized
with reasons Ogushi's article in the arch issue of Central
Review on the theory of "ilitary Government" as "an empty
sentimentalism full of abstract ideologies". He also severely
rebutted Nakajima's article in the pril issue of Nippon Review

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
headed "Military Government in Relation to Means of Oseupatiem
and dministration". Hidokoro's essay gave me an intense
satisfaotion.
Tokyo, Tuesday, Ootober 13.
Looked over a survey made by Uehara about Government
intervention in recent election. Felt greatly indignant.
Where would this world go ?
Tokyo, Monday, December 14.
Nakano is very good in suggesting the following in the
first page of his magazine.
(1) Don't let generals and officers waste their
time on matters other than purely military
operation.
(2) Enforce a rigid official disoipline on
striot punishment and reward basis and
show an example to the people.
(3) ncourage senee or social justice among
the people and their couregeous action
from individual conscientiousness.
Well pointed out the evils of the time. nd a challenge.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.93)
JMA
LHmB
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
AUG 1 3 1948
JAINGRAN
4TEPARTMENT OF STATE
FROM
USPOLAD, Tokyo
山
Dated:
July 28, 1948.
H
BEA
Date of mailing:
July 30, 1948.
UNCLASSIFILD
Rec'd.
Aug. 12, 1948 3:25 pm
3
Secrotery of State,
DW
ACTION FE
II!FO
Washington.
D'/R
894.00/7
0
A=160, Ju1y 28, 1948。
OFD
FC
According to local press reports, an Amorican Council of Japan
P
hes been formed to keep before the American publie the vital interest
of the United States in a "peaceful and prosperous and friendly
POS
Japan in accordance with tho historio role the United Stetes hes
played and can continue to play in the Far East."
1
The announoament of the fornation of the Council has been
2
received with great intorest by the Japane e publio, and in some quertere
8
it is believcd that the formation of a gimilar Japanose organization
48
might be timaly.
We vould greatly appreciato full information concerning the
formation of the Americ n Council of Jepan together with ita objcctives
and a list of its officers and sponsoring membera.
SEBALD
APR
FILED
1
1
500
F.
UHLawrenco Jr. :mhp
C
M
DNCT ASSTETD

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.92)
THE AMERICAN COUNCIL ON JAPAN
55 LIBERTY STREET
NEW YORK 5, N. Y.
Members
Mr. JOSePH W. BALLANTIN
M. Kznneth Scott Latourettz
THE HONORABLE WILLM R. CASTLE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY C. E M
COlonEL W. Carey Crane, ReT.
for Occupied Areas
Mr. COMPTON PAKENHAM
M. JON CuRTIS
ADMIRAL WIlLIAM V. PratT, Ret.
Mr. EUgene DoomAN
O
Mr. ANtOINE RaymonD
TH HonoraBle JoskpH C. Grew
Mr. Jon W. BRaner SMith
ADMIrAL ThomAs C. Hart, Ret.
Bishor Hznry St. George Tuckez
Mr. JAMES LeE KAUFFMAN
Mr. LANGDON WARNER
Mr. Harry F. Kzrn
The Reverend Charlks W. Wood
Department of State
August 6, 1948
Mr. Charles Eskridge Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
State Department
Washington, D. C.
894.00/8-648
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
I am attaching a photostat of a document in which you or other members
of the State Department might be interested. It is a recapitulation written
①
by Mr. Tanzan Ishibashi, Minister of Finance in the Yoshida Government, of
the circumstances leading up to and following his purge in May 1947. I hap-
pened to be in Tokyo at the time and talked to him about his case. It is a
very good example of the unfortunate and disquieting train of events that
have been set in motion by the operation of the pirge in Japan under the over-
all direction and frequent intervention of American authorities.
Sincerely yours,
Hanyf. Ken
Harry F. Kern
Chairman, Organizing Committee
HFK:bw
Photostat
894.
C
S
BU
2390-80

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
I
L. In February. 1947, The Government Section, Gemeral Headquarters.
sCAP. save sudden lastructions to the Central Sereemins Cemmittee to
Investigate the publieatiome, asued from 1937 te 1941, of the Oriental
Beenomist, of whish Mr. Tansan Ishibashi was president at that time, as
a step te determine whether there were any items among them whieh might
ceme within the purview of the purge direotives.
2. The Cantral Sereening Committee. having forthwith made the
imwestigations directed by the Govermment Sestion, found that the
Oriental Eeenomist mas, as had been the long established belief among
the Japanese publie, a leading champien of liberalism and pacifimm in
Japan, and pamed its judgement that there was, consequently, no reason
whatever to purge Mr. Tansan Ishibashi on the eeownt as having bean
presd dant of the company publishing that journal.
3. This judgement, however, ailed to receive the approval of the
Gevernment Seetion, whieh immediately ordered the Committee te make a
meeond investigation. In complianee with the erder, the Cemmittee
ergmised a spesial sub-committee te review the ease of the Oriental
Eeenomist in greater detail. The decision reached by the mab-committes
in the seeond investigation, was again the mme as the previous judge-
meat. On May 2nd. 1947. the Committee. in full memsion. decided for
the seeand time that the purge direetives were mot applieable in the
sase af Mr. Tansan Ishibamhi, and reparted this decimion immediately to
Mr. Shigeru Yeshida, then Prime Linister.
4. The Gevemment Seetim. having been informed of the Committee's
secend deeision, ment the fellowing memorandum te the Japanese Gov ernment
mder the date a May 7. 1947:
GENEHAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POS
Government Seetion
4P0 500
71947
MEMURANDUM FOR: Central Liaion Offiee, Tokyo.
SUBJECT:
Administration of SCAPDN 550
(ISHIBASHI, Tanzan)
L. The aetion takan by the Japanese Govermment in
sereaning ISHIBaSHI, Tansan, has been reviewed and dis-
approved. ISHIBASHI. Minister of Finanee. 1s te be
removed from publie offiee amd exelnded from publie
service as an Category G, Appendix A. SCAPIn 550.
2. As editor and presidant of the Oriental Eeonomist
he was remponsible for the polisies of tlat publieation
whieh mupported military and eecnomie imperialism in Asia
advc cated Japan's adherence to the Axis, fostered belief in
the inevitability of war with the Western Powers. justified
suppression of trade unionism and urged the imposition of
totalitarian controls over the Japanese people.
(Signed) Courtney Whitney.
Brigadier-General, U.S. Army.
Chief, Gevernment Seation.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.94)
sesend paregraph of the memorandnm someerning the pelicies of the
Oriental Esonemist, the view whieh was entirely at varianse with
fasts, Mr. Ishibashi adaressed a mote te Prime Mémister Yeshida on
May 9th, metting forth his case in detail and asking him to mse his
god effiees for taking the matter up with the Govemmant Seetion.
6. On the aftermoom of May 16th, however, Mr. Joj1 Haymthi, them
Chier Cabimet Seeretary, vimited Mr. Ishibashi as persomal representa-
tive of the Prime Minister to inform him that all efforts taken with
General Headquarters had been fryitless and that he had better asquiesee
to the ruling of the Government Seetion. On the fellowing morming,
May 17, Prime Minister Yoshida met Mr. Ishibamhi in person and asked
him te aecede te the measure whieh the Government was about to take
in order te complg with the Government Seetion's adamant demand for
publiely annowmcing Mr. Imhibashi's purge under the date af May l6th.
The publie announcement to that effeet was made as Mr. Yomhida planmed.
7. Mr. Imhibash1 strongly protested against these measures which
the Dey ernment was foreed to take. Prime Minister Yomhida, himmelf.
was well eogmimant that Mr. Imhibamhi wam well justified to pretest,
but he, meverthelems, could do nothing but aamit the laak of suffi-
eient power and authority to interveme.  When Prime Minister Yoshida
met Mr. Ishibashi on the morning of May 17th. he mimply asked him to
consider himself as "having been bitten by a mad deg" and resigm him-
zelf to eiroumstanoes.
An offioial of the Central Liaimon Offise
who ascompanied Mr. Hayasti. Chier Cabinct Seoretary. when the Latter
visited Mr. Imhi bashi an May l6th md who was one of the prinelpals
who underteek negotiatiens with the Governnent Seetion on this ab-
jest, teld Mr. Ishibaahi that he had been warned by Gov ermment See-
tion effieials under threat of confinement not to delay Iahibmmhi's
removal from publio offiee any longer.
8. Thus. on May 16. 1947. r. Tanzan Ishibashi was exoluded from
publie offiee. He wes. however. sompletely at a loss as to the reason
fer the drastie measure taken against him.
Any reader of the Oriental
Eeonemist weuld at onee deelare the statement coneerning the editorial
poliey of that jourmal, as contmined in tihe Gov ernment Section's memoran-
dam of Way 7th, to be a gross fabrieution utterly divorced from the
fasts. Toward the midale part of September. 1947, Mr. Imhibamhi
happemed by shance to get possession of a document entitled "Memorandum
fer the Reeerc. Subjeet: Imhibashi. Tanzan. His Status under SCApIN
550." whieh was recommended for approval under date of April 30. 1947
Mlgmateries. Jack P. Napier, Major, C.A.C., Chief. Publie Service
Qmalificatien Divialong sad Gay Wisgins, Researeh Amalyst, both of
the Govermment Sestiom, and further approved for astion under date of
May Lst over the migmature of Brigadier General Courtney shitney, ehief
of she Government Seetiom.
Judging frem the date of this document, it is cloar that it had
beem made wee er as the material on wnien the desimion to semmit kr.
Inhihashi te the purge mas besed, the deeimion which was tranmssktted
to the Japanese Government in the aferementioned memorandam of May 7th.
The Gevermment Seetiom had not only transmitted copi es of this document
to the Japanese Gevernment, but had distributed copies among foreign

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.95)
9. Mr. Ishi bashi was dumbfounded when he read the sontents ef the
Geverament Seetion's doeument. He had never before meem anything se
mlieious as the said memorandum whish, wilfully distorting the truth.
evidently mought to inoriminate him. Greatly disturbed, Mr. Ishi-
bashi immediately drafted a statenent of refutation, whieh he mubmitted
to the Central Sereeming Committeo and the Central Sereening Appeal
Cemmittee en Ootober 20th and whieh he subsequently.made publie to
fereign and Japanese press representatives.
10. It is not posmible to reproduee here the lengthy protest mde
by Mr. Ishibashi as it eonsists of eightys twpewritten pages. In order
te mhow how unjust and biased the Government Section's acousations were,
a single example is given below:
The Oriental Ecenomist. in its November 29 (1941) isme, teek the
stand eppesins Japan's entry into war and amserting the possibility of
avoiding hostilities even at this late juneture with these words: with
the baekgreund of this nation-wide enthusiasm, if the sovernment under
takes megotiatioms with the Uni ted States, evem heaven wdll be moved."
The Governmant Seetion in its report renders the same pasmage
it is believed that they would be earnestly devoted if the sovermmemt
adepts an anti-American poliey," and comments that "The editor coneludes
with the mignificant remark that the people will beak the govermment
in the event of war." It emn by no streteh of imgination be eonsi-
dered that the words "negotiations with the Uni ted states" sould
imaavertently have been mistranslated into the words "Anti-Amerioan
pol1ey。"
11. When the Central Sereening Committee commenced the so-called
"Press Purge" or the sereening of publisations after having pamsed
its decisdon on the Ishibamhi case, the Gov ernment Sectien again
imservened, this time giving striot instruetions to the Committes
that the Oriontal Economiat shotld be purged without fail. The
Committee itmelf, while fully conseious of its injustiee. was foroed
to accede to the Government Section's deoree. Thus, en Movember l3th.
1947. the counter-evidenee submitted by the Oriental Feemomist was
rejeeted and the purge ef the Oriental Ecenomist was confirmed.
12. On reeeiving the effieial notice ereluding him frem puhlie
effiee, Hr. Tanzan Ishibamhi promptly took steps te mubmit an appeal
to the Cemtral Sereening Appeal Committee. The Govermment Sestien
did not fail to marm this Cemmittee as wall that any resonsideration
of the Ishi bamhi purge would mot be soumtenansed by General Headquarters.
The Cemmittee songht to aveid issues by delaying astion on this cass.
Qm May 10, 1948, at its final meeting (the committee was dissolved m
the same date). the Cemmittee unanimously desided that Imhibeshi's
appeal was ecseptable and that he should be released from the purge.
13. On May 22, hewever, the Gevernment Sestien removed the mames
af a emmiderable mumber of permons, imeluding Mr. Iaaibaski. frem
the list of these whe ware te be released frem the purge throuch the
desialen of the Appeel Comittee, and had the Govemamant make the
"mevizd list" pullie on the following day, May z2nd.
When Mr. Ishibashi eelled en Dr. Hiteski Ashida, Prime Mister,
en May 22ad to pay respsets, the latter axpressed his regrets that
things had ceme to mak an and and explained that the Geveramant em its
part mde every effort , bat all efforts proved ffatile in the face
of imstruetions frem demeral Hendquarters.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
14. On June . 1948, Mr. Tansan Ishibashi aadressed a letter
to Brigmdier-Geneml C. Whitmey. Chief of the Geverament Seetiem.
the sonkents of whieh are reproduced herounder.. Ee answer, hesever.
has yet been reseived, although a month and halr have elapsed.
Jume 4. 1948.
1712 4-ahome, shimo-ochial.
General C. Whitney,
Shijuka-ka, Takyo.
Chief, Government Seetion.
GHQ, SCAP.
Dear Sir:
I have not yet had the opportunity to see you.
Last year I aaked for an appointment with you to dimsuss
a matter that was or vital conoern to me, but was
Informed that it was your poliey not to see anyone who
was designated as a purgee or whose purge was still
pending. Now that I have been finally purged. I am no
longer in that eategory. Tharefore, it should not be
embarassing to my government if you would grant me the
privilage of an interview.
You can be assured that I will not appeal
to you regarding my purge, wniah, to all appearanees.
seems to be a olosed  ssue. but I would like to know
the reasons for my be ing purged after having been aleared
by the property designated a ancies of the Japaneme
Gover ment whose findinge were canourred m by the Prime
Minist r of Japan This question, I believe. is a.
matter of interest to the Japanese people and to our free
press whiah is guaranteed to us under the constitution af
our new demooracy.
as a publiaher. I have lived openly and publiely
all y life as r as pomaile under the old regime in Japan.
and had hoped to te able to serve my people in thome diffi-
oult times. tut it is difficult for me to reconeile the
prinoiples of denoeraoy with the fact that I have been
purged without maffioiently published reasons. As a mtter
oi fuct, up to this minute I úo not know by whom or by
what cuthority I was purged.
I do not mean to be presumptuous in this mmtter.
but again I would ltke to state thet being purged will not
only havo a far-reaahing effaot on my futura life, but the
manner in wnieh my purge was effected does not seem compa-
tible with the prinoiples of demooracy wh ich all Japanese
are atriving so hard to learn and comprehend. I would be
very grateful if you would grant me an interview at your
convenienoe.
I remain, vear sir,
Yours most faithfully,
(Sined) TANZAN ISHIBASHI
15. The foregoing is the outline of developments which led to
the purge of Mr. Tanzan Ishibashi. In the following. the writer
preposes to sst forth some views he entertains with regard to thsse
developments.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.92)
a) Gemeral ashrthur and ether maperter offieers ef Sememl
Headquarters mmintain that the application at the parge and partiealarly
the astion on appeals from the purgees are lert to the free and aarest-
rieted initiative of the Japanese Gevermment, but it ean be meem frem
the preseedings in the case of ir. Tanzan Ishibamhi that this is mtirely
uxtrue.
b) Deliberations in sesret sesaions of a cemmittes of limited
mambers, without the benefit of publie preseedings or even hearings frem
defendants and witnesses, cannot possitly suarantee a just outeeme even
if the pos itility of any intentional irregularity is exoluded. It is
emly to bu uxpecte& that the announced decimions mhould involve count-
less cases of gross injustice evident to everyone and give causem for
reat aissat!sfantio.. no: only anon thoco personally affected but alse
among the eneral publie.
o) Consejuently. muny Japanese are goming to entertain grest
doubt as to Anericcn denoormoy. the reaction thercirm already leading
mome ot thu mc o intelll ent olaszes to turn to ConmunimAmong
those woll tcquaintod with what is harrening, euspicion is belng enter
tained as to whet.sr or not Jenors) . endqusrters is foliowing such
umdemocretie olicies ror the u  se of torcing Japan to embraee
Communism.
d) Purgees at prement are not aly witlincld from taking any
publie office or taking part in any political activity. but have lataly
been forbidden from exuressing any personal opinion on volitical mtterm.
Purged novelists are forbiaden from writint novels pertuinine to politi-
cal mttars. Purgees c  required to report reguaurly their plaees of
residence, occupation and other e eciiied fecte to the Covsrnnent and to
abndt to continuous surveiliance by the aut ritice concerned. Sach
exteneive restrietions on personsl liberty can result only in depriving
pargees cf their means fcr living and thus jeopar ice the existenee of
mamy.
Those whose daily lives have taus  n ade niserable through
the spplication of such "puree restrictions" now well number over two
hmdred thousands. The situation is cartain t. crocte a sorioue mocial
preblem.
•) humore are surrent that r. Tanet Ieri luti aa purged
mot because of the opluion ne punli.cd in t Orientl conomlet ( a
it was used marely as an exouse) but bncnuse oi certain poliei us wiah
he carried out or trion to carry out while serving ae Mini ste or inanee
in the Yoshida Cabinet, and whiah were dimppreved by Genoral Feadquarters.
Erino unister Yuahidu himself expreused suon a tolief to
Mr. Ishibeshi when they met on lay 17th. 1947. the intervler muntioned
alsowhare. If sua a viow is, b. any ohanoe. true. there ls no denying
that a grave injustiee was committed in the purge of s. Ishibasii. If
amy poliey of the inister of Finanse is not acceptable, it would sufiice
merely to remove him from his office. In the oe:e or . Ialihamti.
it mhould bo noted. thori was no poliey which he exeouted that had not
received the previous approval of General Headquarters.  Of seurse, such
an astion was strietly forbidden by General Headquarters. There were.
of course, certain instanees in whieh policies were adopted after heated
dimeussion and argumemt botween the Mini ster of fimamee and General Head-
quarters 3uah iastances, howover, are well indioative of Mr. Imhibaahi's
mineere desire to co-eperate with the Oecupatiom Ferees in the presesutien
ef cscupation pelicies and his enthusiamm toward asselerating the post-war
reeovery of Japan. It is sertain that Hr. Ishibashi thought that to remain
as a mere "yemkem" was not the faithful way to ce-operate with Sameml Hemé-
quarters.
If the innocent Oriental Ecenemist was asemmed in erder
te justify Mr. Iahibamili's purge only heezuse he mas not amomabla, it is
eertainly a disgrace to human'ty, not to peak ef ita being a defilement
of domoermey.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.91)
7
Japan. It Ls arnestly heped thet General Headguarters ené the Jape
committee within the Diet fer inquiring inte and reexamiaing all preblemm
pertaining to the purge.
16. Some of the eminent persons who addressed petitiene te Gemeral
Douglas Macarthur, appealing for the exoneration of Ur. Tanzan Imhibashi
were as followa:
Mr. Ashida, Hitoahl. Seeretary-General of the Demporatie Party
(present rime inister).
Mr. Abe, Yoshiaioe, 'resident of the Mational Maseum
(Mini nter of luoation in the ihi denara Cabinet).
Hr. Ayuraw. Iwao, xeoutive irector of the Cantral abor
Relatiuns Joard.
Mr. Baba. Ssunego. reai uent oi the Yomiuri shimbun. td.
Mr. Furugaki, Tetmuro, xecutive irector of the Japan iroad-
casting Corpuration.
Mr. Homhijime, Niro, Minieter of Comaerce an: Inductry in the
Yoshide Cabinet.
Ir. Hasegawn. Hyozaban. noted wri ter and comantat or.
Mrs. Hani. Kotako, President of the Jiyu Sakuen.
Mr. Iohimada. Huoto. Jovernor of the Jank of Japan.
Mr. Itakura. Takuzo. President of the Ji ji Shimgo, Ltd.
Mr. keda. Yujia, viss-Minister of Finance.
Mr. Ite, Masanori. Chairman. Beard of ireotors, the Kyodo
Nows Agnay.
M. Kurumu, Takeo. overnor of the In ustrial Jans of Japan
(prement tate iaister and irector-General of the
Boonomic Stuhilization Board).
Kr. Matsuokm, Komkichi, President of the Japan aderation of
Labor (present speaker of the House of Reprosentatives).
Mr. Miki, Takeo. secretary-General of the People's Jo-operative
Party.
M. Mimhie, Suehire. Secrstary-General of tne Jociul Demooratie
Party.
Mr. One, Banboku, Secretary-General of the Liberal  arty.
Mr. Ouahi. Hyoe, Proiessor of the Tokyo Univeraity.
Mr. Obamm, Toshie, remident of the Hiham Keimmi Shimban, Ltd.
Dr. Smeniro, Itmutare, Chairman of the Central Laber Relations
3eard.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.90)
0
Mr. Sucuki. Bumshiro, aiter-in-Chief of the Readers
)igest (Japanese Eaitiun).
Mr. hirayanagi, Shuko, historian and writer.
ar. Tola. oyotaro, tae Japan Industrial Club.
r. Ugehara tsujiro. inister of fome Afiair (Liberal
Party.
As. Jyemura, Tamki. residant of the Y..C. of Ja
ir. Yamazaki, akealli, petk of the Honse of Repretativ

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
O - Mr. Ray
August 24, 1968
NA - Mr. Allison
Ishibashi Statement.
I understand that Mr. Fearey bas already disoussed
our proposed change in the attached letter to Mr. Kern
with you.
I suggest that in sending a oopy of the Ishibashi
statement to the Army we say that we assume there must
be considerations on the other side, but that if there
is any truth at all in the statement it is a deplorable
situation and would seem to merit an inquiry of S0AP.
Copies of the Ishibashi statement are enolosed.
NA:RaFearey:lt

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.92)
Form DS-302
(7-2-40)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OF
INCOMING TELEGRNRHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
AUG 1 2 1948
PLAIN
N
DEPARTMENTDFSTATE
9
Control 3727
Acsion: F
Rec'd August 12, 1948
Info
5:30 a.m.
12
SAM
FROM
Shanghai
OLA
TA
C0.
Secretary of State
894.00/8-1248
1:1
NO:
1798, August 12
OFD
PCS
Polloving is ertral News Ageney item distributed
DA
  10
DOE
"Jipanese laoet cireles reared a revival of police
vontrol in Japan as the government is reportedly
considering p chibiting demonostrations and meetings
by labor unious without prior notification.
The governmen authorities are said to be contemplating
ssuenee of an order imposing such controls in Tokyo.
Yokohama, Nagoya, Hyogo and Kobe.
Sthe order prohibitIng demonstratlons and meetings witi-
Sjut prtor notirication was originated from Oeaka where
AUG
the Ameracan Provoet Marshal Captain resently issued
restrletive order. Some American porrespondents in
22
okyo deseribed the stern order as a revivai or wa
31948
tne police contvel in Japan
S
eantime Sopauene despat chee reperted chat 45  poeer
CE
orkers in lorkaide have been subjeoted to dteolrlde
etion for conducting "wild cat" strike
Totrrees er
these workers were disoiesed by the gever nment raljay
tureau while 3 othern punished by wags teoueticn."
Sent Tokyo 55, xepeared Department 1798
CABOT
AUG 17 194
PRMME
HJ
PLAYN
409
M
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
2
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
August 12, 1948.
NORTHENST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 512
SEP - 3 1948
RESTRICTED
ef Kebe-Osaka Riots In
Subject: Sentences Imposed as
OUARTMENT OF STATE
April 1948.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
× 8 379. 9515
15.62
Sir:
894.00/8-1248
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 265
of Hay 6, 1948 concerning the status of Koreans in Japan and to
enclose a copy of a list prepared by the Legal Section of this
Headquarters showing the names and sentences of those persons,
mostly Koreans, brought to trial for participation in the Kobe-
FE
Osaka riots in April 1948. The trials were held before a United
States Military Commission in hobe, two United States Army Provost
Courts, and two Japanese District Courts. Of the 1l4 people tried,
T
only four were found not guilty.
Also enclosed is a copy dated July 7, 1948 of the review by the
CLA
Staff Judge Advocate of the United States Eighth Army of the trial
D
before a United States Military Commission in Kobe of eight Koreans
and one Japanese. This was considered the most important of the
prosecutions made as a result of the April riots. Seven of those
tried were sentenced to confinement for ten years or more and two
were acquitted. The review by the Assistant Staff Judge Advocate
is confined to a suanary of the evidence presented and to a tech-
nical consideration of the leral standard of proof required both to
conform with the specifications and to sustain a conviction of
riot; the review concludes that riot was clearly proved but that,
because this was not a case of riot in its most serious aspects,
CSA
maximum penalties should not be imposed and accordingly a reduction
of sentences is recomamended. The opinion of the Staf Judge Advo-
cate emphasizes the seriousness of the assault by the rioters on
United States military personnel and recoanends that the sentences
not be reduced.
By decision of Lieutant General Kobert L. EICLLBu GER,
Commanding General, Li ghth Anay, the sentences were not reduced.
Respectfully yours,
lWBeree
. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1.
List, Kobe-Osaka
Riot Cases, prepared
by Legal Section, il,
SOAP.
2.
Copy of review, dated
July 7, 1948, of Robe trial.
810.8
RBFinn: cgf
Original and ozalid to Department
cc: American Consulate, hobe; USPOLAD, Seoul.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.94)
Emolosure No. 1 to Déspatah mo. 512 dated
August 12, 1948, from the office of the
United States Politieal Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, entitled, "gentenees Imposed as
Result of Kobe-0saka Riots in April 1948".
(COPY)
RESTRICTED
KOBE-OSAKA RIOT CASES
A. Military Commission - Kobe
Name
Nationality
Findings
Sentences
1. Kim Dai Sam
Korean
G
15 yrs CHL
2. Kim Yong Ho
n
G
15 s CHL
3. Ryo Min Seo
n
G
15  L
4. Kim Ko Hong
n
NG
Aoquitted
5. Chang Chisoo
G
12 yrs CHL
6. Kazutomo Horikawa
Japanese
G
10 ys CHL
7. Cha Yong Seok
Korean
NG
Acquitted
8. Shin Ki Shik
G
15 yrs CHL
9. Kim Chang Shik
G
15 yrs CHL
B. General Provost Court - Kobe
1. Sai Ryu Han
Korean
NG
Acquitted
2. Kin To Ei
G
3 months' CHL
3. Kyo Ko Shu
n
G
3 months' CHL
4. Ko Kimiko
G
9 months' CHL (susp'd)
5. Ko Suzuko
G
9 months' CHL (susp'd)
6. Bun Toku Zai
G
2 yrs 9 mos CHL
7. Boku So Ryu
n
G
3 rs 9 mos L
8. Gon Ju Choku
G
3 yrs 9 mos CHL
9. Cho Tai Kei
G
4 yrs 9 mos CHL
10. Boku Chu Han
n
G
4 s 9 m L
ll. Tei Hot Sei
n
NG
Acquitted
12. Boku E1 Sho
n
Nolle Prosequi
C. Japanese District Court - Kobe
1. Bun Kai Bun
Korean
G
1 r HL
2. Gun Ji Ko
n
G
450 fine
3. So Kai Ryu
n
G
n
4. Ri Zui Raku
n
G
n
5. Shin Sei Ko
n
G
n
6. So Un Shaku
0
G
.n
7. Boku Zai Sen
n
G
n
8. Kyo Ki Ki
n
G
n
9. So To Seki
n
G
n
10. R1 E1 K1
n
G
11. Ri Shoji
G
n
12. Kin Shoka
13. Kin Jobai
G
n
n
G
14. Kin Shoritsu
n
G
15。
Ikeda Keiko
G
16。
Jo Doritsu
n
G
17. Kin Seki To
tn
G
4
18. Ko Ittsen
RESTRICTED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.93)
Encl. No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 512, dated August 12,
1948.
RESTRICTED
-2-
Name
Nationality
Findings
Sentences
18. Ko Ittsen
Korean
G
¥50 fine
19. Kan Seki Kan
n
G
20. Kyo Sei Chu
G
21. Boku So Ken
G
22. Sha Sodai
n
G
23. Shin Taitichi
G
4
24. E. Kyahu
G
25. So Zai Kun
n
G
26. So Kyo
e
27. Ko Hei Sei
n
G
28. Sho Issen
n
G
29. Boku Kyodo
G
30.
Sai Josan
n
G
n
31.
Ri Shin Ko
n
G
32.
Gon Kei Sai
n
G
n
33.
Sei Shin Shoko
G
34.
Kin Kei Kan
n
G
n
35.
Ri Gi Ei
n.
G
36.
Ri Yo Shun
n
G
n
37. Ri Jun Nen
38. So Yoku Kan
G
n
39. Kin Ten Ko
4
G
e
40. Kin Ki Shun
G
41. Cho Sho Chyaku
G
4
42.
Ri Sai Ko
G
G
n
43.
Ri Haruko
G
44.
Kin Ku Kaku
n
G
45.
Ri Jun Fuku
G
n
46.
47.
49.
50.
52.
48.
51。
Kin Sei Kei
Boku Kan Shyo
Ri Shu Ko
Cho San Do
Ri Tai Hei
Kin Ki Shyu
Ryo Shaku Eki
n
n
n
n
n
n
G
G
G
G
G
G
G
n
n
n
n
n
15 cases untried
D.
General Provost Court - Osaka
1.
Izeki Masakatsu
Japanese
G
2 yrs CHL
2.
Kin Zui, Ko
Korean
G
1 yr CHL Doport
3.
Rin Mei, Ho
Korean
G
2 yrs CHL Deport
4.
Hikosaka Toahiharu
Japanese
G
2 s CHL
5.
Haku Cho, Un
Korean
G
2 yrs CHL Deport
6.
Toyoda Chuji
Japanese
G
2 yrs CHL
7.
Kawabata Hiroshi
Japanese
G
2 s CHL
8.
Kato Shiro
Japanese
G
3 yrs CHL
9.
Hiranuma Jinshoku
Korean
G
3 yrs CHL Deport
10.
Izumoto Kimio
Japanese
G
3 yrs CHL
11. Kin Ki, Sen
RESTRICTED

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
Emol. No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 512, dated August 12,
1948.
-3-
RESTRICTED
Neme
Nationality
Findings
Sentences
11. Kin Ki, Sen
Korean
G
5 yrs CHL Deport
12. Murakami, Hiroshi
Japanese
G
4 yrs CHL
13. Ko Kyo
Korean
G
3 yrs CHL Deport
14. Azuma Yonekichi
Japanese
G
4 yrs CHL.
15. Kin Sekii
Korean
G
2 yrs CHL Deport
16. Miyashima Nobuo
Japanese
G
3  L
17. Fujita Chichiro
Japanese
G
3 yrs CHL
18. Lim Kyu Sho
Korean
G
2 yrs CHL Deport
E. District Court - Osaka (Japanese)
1. Ri Gengo
Korean
G
4 mos Conf. (3 yrs
Suspension)
2. Kin Chin
G
3. Zen Shitoku
n
G
4. Kin Koiko
n
a
n
5. Kin Seishin
n
G
6. Kin Atsubai
n
G
7. Zen Sakyu
n
G
n
8. Ryo Kikwan
n
G
n
9. Kin Choson
G
10. Ryo Tokei
n
G
11. Bon Tokuhen
n
G
12. Kin Koshu
n
G
13. In Kyochu
G
14. Ko Sekiten
n
G
n
15. R1 Churin
n
G
n
16. Kyo Senouku
n
G
17. Kin Tonshu
n
G
n
18. Boku Zaikei
G
19. So Zaikoi
7
G
20. Ri Soshu
n
G
21. Boku Keiichi
n
G
22. Kin Senkoku
n
G
n
23. Ko Kakuaho
n
G
n
GLOSSARY:
CHL -
Confinement at hard labor
CHL Deport -
to be deported at expiration of confinement
Confinement (3 yrs suspension) - Confinement suspended pending accused
good behavior for three years.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 512 dated
August 12, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Political Adviser at Tokyo,
on the subject of: "Sentences Imposed as
Result of Kobe-Osaka Riots in April 1948.
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY
United States Army
Office of the Army Judge Advocate
APO 343
RESTRICTED
Yokohama, Japan
7 July 1948
UNITLD STATES OF AMEtICA VS KIM DAI SAM et al
Review of the Staff Judge Advocate
1. The attached record of trial of No. 1 Kim Dai Sam, No. 2
Kim Yong Ho, No. 3 Ryo Min Seo, No. 4 Kim Ko Hong, No. 5 Chang Chisco,
No. 6 Kazutomo Horikawa, No. 7 Cha Yong Seok, No. 8 Shin Ki Shik and
No. 9 Kim Chang Shik, tried at Kobe, Honshu, Japan, from 20 May 1948
to 30 June 1948, before a Military Commission appointed by paragraph
1, Special Orders No. 103, this headquarters, 6 May 1948, as amended
by paragraph 1, Special Orders No. 121, this headquarters, 27 May
1948, having been referred to the Staff Judge Advocate, this review
thereof is submitted to the Conmanding General.
2. Personal Data Concernin: the Accused:
Very little personal data concerning the accused was de-
veloped prior to or durin: the course of this trial. All of the
accused are korean nationals with the exception of No. 6, Kazutomo
Horikawa, who is Japanese. They all appear to be responsible persons
with dependents either in Japan or Rorea. ven the youngest, No. 3
Ryo Min Seo, who is only 23 years of age, is an educated man who was
employed as a teacher in the Sanda Korean Primary School. The others
held such responsible positions as, No. 1 xecutive of Korean League
and reporter on Kaiho Newspaper, No. 2 Dressmaker and Secretary of
Korean Association, No. 4 Secretary of the Democratic Youth League,
No. 5 Principal of the Nishikobe Korean Primary School, No. 6 Member
of the Municipal Assenbly of Kobe, No. 8 Textile employee, No. 9
Clerk in offices of Democratic Youth League. It will be noted that
the accused were closely connected with the Korean nationalists move-
ment and were persons of considerable influence and leadership.
Horikawa was a member of the Municipal Assembly of Kobe and an of-
ficial in the Coamunist Farty of that prefecture. He had no particu-
lar reason to be connected with this disturbance in an official
capacity but appeared to be present voluntarily as a representative
of his party. It does not appear how long the various accused have
been resident in Japan but such information is of no importance in
view of the fact that the commission did not adjudge deportation as
part of the sentence awarded.
3. Synopsis of Record:
a.
Accused arraigned: 24 May 1948
b.
Charfe: Acts prejudicial to the security and the objec-
tives of the Occupation.
Specification 1:
RESTRICTED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-2-
Specification 1: All accused, together with unknown
per sons, on 24 April 1948 committed riot by assembling to the
terror of the inhabitants of Kobe and did unlawfully enter the
offices of the Governor of the irefecture and did destroy certain
furnishings of said offices.
Specification 2: All accused, together with unknown
persons, on 24 April 1948 did unlawfully enter the offices of the
Governor and other offic ials and did commit assault upon the
Governor and others by striking and mauling with their hands.
Specification 3: All accused, together with unknown
persons, on 24 Aprii 1948 did commit acts of violence and intimida-
tion against the Governor and others, compelling the issuance of
unlawful orders.
Specification : All accused, together with unknown
persons, on 24 April 19l lid wrongfully detain the Governor and
other officials, preventin then from performing their duties.
pecification 5: All accused, together with unknown
persons, on 24 April 1948 did wrongfully interfere with communica-
tions between the Occu ation orces and the Hyogo rrefectural of-
ficials by destroyin equipment an holding the officials incommu-
nicado.
Specification 6: All accused, together with unknown
per sons, on 24 April 1943 did coanit assault upon members of the
Occupation Forces and id interfere with such members of the Occu-
pation Forces in the execution of their official duties.
c. Pleas: All of the sccused plead not ruilty to all
specifications ari the charre.
d. Findinge and uentenees:
No. 1 li: sai an - Guilty of all pecifications and
sentenced to eonfinement for 15
ears.
No. 2 lin Yon: Ho - luilty of all specirications and
sentenced to confinement for 15
years.
Ho. 3 yo in eo - uilty of all specifications and
sentenc ed to confinement for 15
years.
No. 4 Kim l.o Hong - Acquitted
No. 5 Jhang Jhisco- Guilty of all specifications and
sentenced to confinement for 12
years.
No. 6 hazutomo Horikawa - Guilty of specifications 1,
4 and 5. Not guilty of speci-
fications 2, 3 and 6 and sen-
tenced to confinement for 10
years.
No. 7
RESTRICTED

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-3-
No. 7 Cha Yong Seok - Acquitted
No. 8 Shin Ki Shik - Guilty of all specifications and
sentenced to confinement for 15
years.
No. 9 Kim Chang Shik - Cuilty of all specifications and
sentenced to confinement for 15
years.
4. Insanity of Accused:
It does not appear from any evidence before the Commission
or in the opinion of the investigating officer that the accused were
insane or otherwise inconpetent at the time of the trial or at the
time of the alleged commission of the offense. No question was
raised of any insanity and in the absence of such question, the
accused are preswned to be sane (04 1928, par 112a).
5. vidence:
a. For the rrosecution: Four Korean schools in Kobe were
excepted fron provisions of an edict issued by the Japanese Govern-
ment in the autumof 1946, requiring thet Koreans abide by Japanese
school regulations. Governor kishida of Hyogo Prefecture closed
these Korean schools on April 10 because, "we received a verbal order
from the Hyogo Military Government," on Apri! 8 to do so (R 39). A
crisis developed when the horean school authorities failed to obey
the closing order from the Japanese prefectural government and a
meeting was called in the Governor's office in the Kencho or prefec-
ture building of Hyogo Prefecture, Kobe, for the moming of 24 April
1948. The purpose of this meeting was to try and work out amicable
solutions to the school. problen (t 147). The Governor arrived at
his office at approximately Oa30 for this meeting which was attended
by all principal city and prefectural officials (t loo). At about
1030 accused No. 6, Horikawa, came to the office with three Koreans
and asked to see the Governor about the school situation (R 39, 54,
105). The message was conveyed and the Governor, who had conferred
with Horikawa before, cane to the outer office where he spoke to
Horikawa and told hin that he was in conference and could not leave,
but that he would discuss the matter with him later (R 56). Horikawa
later received 2000 yen as  gift fron the horeans for his influence
(R 525). At about 1100 the Covernor's secretary heard a crowd of
Koreans, about 100 in number ( 39), approachins and went into the
inner office to report this fact. The conferees then heard the
furniture and fixtures in the outer office being danaged and destroyed
by the mob (R 199). "Kill him, give him the works," (k 72), "Open
up, open up. we will kill you," (R l16) and similar threatening
words were heard (a 126). They thus bracel thenselves against the
door and prevented entry for about thirty minutes (R 142) at which
time the vall between the two offices was partially destroyed; the
top portion being constructed of a light naterial was pushed in
(π 38, 75). Fifty or sixty persons then entered, cut the telephone
wires, threw the telephones to the floor (R 4l), which prevented
persons in the office of the local Military Government team from
being able to reach the officials by phone (R 364). They then broke
and destroyed part of the furniture although they did not physically
harm
RESTRICTED

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-4 -
harm the Governor or the officials who had been in conference with
him (i 57-60). One man stood on the Goverhor's desk and thus broke
the glass top (R l06). One chair was thrown out of a window
(R 142). Some of the Koreans were heard discussing the possibility
of throwing the officials out of the window and the Governor was
pushed against the wall (R 73). Some scuffling resulted, the
Governor was caught by his tie and "chest" and pushed back (R 63),
such that buttons were torn from his jacket (R 64). The mayor was
caught by the wrist "and they tried to drag him out" (R 64, 100).
The deliberate and destructive intent was apparent (R ll3). Three
persons, accused No. 1 Kim Dai Jam, No. 2 Kim Yong Ho and No. 3 Ryo
Min Seo, emerged as negotiators (R 40) representing the purposes
of the mob (i 53). Tne Governor was seated and it was demanded
thet he sign a revocation of his order closing the four schools. He
explained that he did not have such authority but finally acceded
about 1500 when they appeared so deternined and violent that he
feared the outcome would be bloodshed unless he did make such a
revocation (R 64-66). Demands were then made upon the Procurator
that he release the 65 men who were confined following a previous
illegal entry of the Assistant Governor's office (R li7). Assist-
ant 'rocurator Tanabe, escorted by three Koreans, then went to his
office in the sane building where he signed an order releasing the
prisoners (R 118, 146). A third demand was then made by the Koreans
that no one should be hereafter punished for the destruction or for
any possible offense growing out of this occurrence (R 117). These
negotiations lasted from about 1200 to about 1700 (R 126), during
whicn time the apparent leadership did not change (R 273). When
the koreans were asked if their leaders would write their names on
a piece of paper, they replied that "they were all representatives"
(R 267). At about 1230 Capt Cropp and two ilitary Policemen ar-
rived, entered the room, asked a few questions and then attempted
to escort the Governor out of the office. Capt Cropp was on one
side of the Governor and a second lilitary Policeman was on the
other. The third lilitary loliceman preceded them as they walked
out. When they reached the outer office they were stopped by the
Koreans who crowded in to the extent that the first Military Police-
man was separated from the other two and the Governor, and the first
Military roliceman was lifted off of his feet. They were all pushed
back against the door (ia ?1?). "The two Mr's fell on their back-
sides" (R 116, 130). The Hilitary Policemen then drew their pistols
at which three of the Koreans bared their chests and said, "shoot
here." Capt Cropp cautioned the two Military rolicemen not to fire
and the three left without further incident (it 116, 117). During
this entire time the situation was so violent that no one dared
leave or try to 1eave the room (it 46, 64, 100, 139). There were
threats and intimidations to the degree that those within feared
for thenselves and generally that there would be great bloodshed
(R 65, 67, 69, 100).
ihile this was occurrinf within the office, a great crowd of
Koreans, estimated from 1,000 to more than 3,000, gathered at the
building's entrance at llo0 and vegan signing and demonstrating
(R 42). There was some speech makin: and occasionally a "roar of
shouts" (R 2ll). They pressed so close around the entrance as to
prevent any help from reaching the Governor's office where the of-
ficials were bein held and the negotiations were being carried on
(R 169). A group of about 150 policemen then arrived (R 205), cal1
having been made fron the Governor's office for help, and being un-
able to enter the building (a 167), began dragging the Koreans away
from the entrance one at a time and carrying them beyond a roped
off area across the street (R 172). The Koreans offered resistance
and
R.STRLCTED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-5 -
and there was quite a bit of scuffling (R 179). The policemen did not
use their clubs but there was "active" resistance. The police were
struck, scratched, kicked and bitten (R 366). In the opinion of
Capt Roy M. Johnson, who witnessed the assemblage, by 1l:30 "it had
ceased to be a crowd. It was a mob" (R 365). This continued until
around 1430 when the police were in possession of the entrance
(R 172, Pros x 71). During this time, I1linois Avenue and 12th
Street, on both sides of the Prefectural building, were blocked by
the mob (R 367). Liaison had been established between those on the
outside and those on the inside throughout the entire day (R 172).
Several times a man appeared at a window in the southwest corner of
the third floor facing Illinois Avenue and addressed the crowd
through a megaphone. ihen this occurred, there were shouts and cries
of "bonzai" and people shook their fists in the air (R 368). The
police, however, never entered the Governor's office to give assist-
ance and around 1700 someone from within shout ed from the windows
that, "they have rescinded an order on which the seal was fixed,"
(R 172). At this news "the mob went crazy" (R 369). They formed
a victory parade and marched down Illinois Avenue, flying the Korean
flag. The ne gotiators then cane into the street bearing their news
and were joyously greeted (rros x 71).
b. For the Defense: i'revious to the incident in the Governor's
office on 24 April, six or seven requests had been made of the Gov-
ernor for an interview but none of them were granted. Thirty minutes
before the riot such a request was made but again it was not granted
(it 45). During the negotiations in the Governor's office the Gov-
ernor and accused, No. 1 Kin Dai San, No. 2 Kim Yong Ho and No. 3
Ryo Min seo, all sat down to di scuss the matter. These three accused
often tried to quiet the crowd. The police were called by the Pre-
fecture officials but this was for the purposc of trying to quiet
the people in the adjoining room and not because those within needed
protection (R 48). During this tine there was complete freedom so
that anyone could walk around the of fice and although no one attempted
to leave, they could have if they so desired (R 49). Many of the
people outside the hencho buildin were women and students (R 51).
No weapons were seen during the entire occurrence in the possession
of any Koreans (R lo0). In spite of the large number of Koreans in
the office and the hall, people could and did walk freely among them
(π l04). The witness Nishio was able to leave the office at the
height of the negotiations (a 1l3). The witness Morita even got the
impression that the crowd was not riotous (? 184). On the outside,
the attitude of the Koreans was passive nd at no time did they ever
attack the police, althou h they did fom a "scrummage" in front of
the entrance (R 209). There was no violence at all until the Japa-
nese police moved in to disperse those gathered around the entrance
(R 203). There was no organized destruction (t 359).
Accused No. L, Kim Dai Jam, alon with other representatives of
the Korean leagues, attended a meeting on 23 April with the Governor.
It was completely unsuccessful and the Governor, who would not listen
to them, sent the representatives away. On the morning of the 24th, at
about 1030 the accused went with others to the Kencho building to see
the Governor agrain, but this time he considered that he no longer was
a representative, having failed before to get any satisfaction from
the Governor. He merely went as a news correspondent to observe.
However, he did ask for ermission to see the Governor and when it
was refused, insisted on some definite date in the future. At this
time thecrowd came into the office. He was in the chief secretary's
office and when he came to the Governor's office the door was already
RLSTRICTED
broken

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
- 6 -
broken down and the crowd had entered. He then entered solely for
the purpose of quieting them. Having gained admittance he faced
the Governor and became one of the negotiators. All of the "insist-
ing" that was done occurred before he entered the Governor's office
and he saw no violence at any time. He did not know that the result
of the negotiations were conveyed to the crowd outside. That, due
to the fact that everything was so upset at the time, he did not
think it a good time to negotiate but that negotiations commenced
at the suggestion of the Governor (R 530-540).
Accused No. 6, Horikawa, a member of the Municipal Assembly of
Kobe, attended a meeting called by the Korean School Counter Measure
Committee on 23 April. He was there as representative of the Com-
munist Party and, taking part in the discussion, argued in effect
that, (a) the Koreans should abide by the Japanese school laws, and
(b) that due to many years of mistreatment of Koreans by Japanese,
some concession should be made to Koreans. It was decided to visit
the Governor on the 24th and see if some solution could not be worked
out. un this day, Harikawa, therefore, went to the Kencho building
at O900 with several other representatives. At 1000 the Governor
cane out of his rivate office to see hin but said that he would have
to talk to him later as he was in conference. Horikawa stated that
he would retum at 1400 that afternoon. He did return at 1400 or
1430 but could not enter the tuilding because of the police. He made
a statement to the Koreans out side, telling them of his talk that
mornin with the Governor and askin then to p hone peacefully
(R 507-510).
Accused No. 7, Cha Yong Seok, denied being present at the scene
of the riot on 24 April or that he knew anything about it. He took
the stand and made a sworn statement testifying that he lives in
Kobe but works in Usaka. That he worked up until 25 April, at about
170o, at which time he left ith Nakazato, with whom he works, to
return to Kobe. This testimony was corroborated by Nakazato (R421-
428) and also by a witness tho rents the shop to accused for his
business (R 436). Accused and Nakazato reached the Sannomiya Sta-
tion about 1930, where they were sto ped ty the police and Military
policemen who questioned then concernin their nationality. Nakazato
was released but the accused was detained and carried to the Ikuta
rolice Station where he was confined in a mall room with about 40
people for the night. He was badly treated by the police and Mili-
tary Policemen who beat hin many times during the long periods of
questioning; he lost consciousness twice during these beatings (R 502).
On 25 April he was lined up with ahout thirty people who were also
detained and identified by various witnesses who were brought in by
the police (R 477). The accused was identi fied by the Governor (R 495,.
Regarding accused No. 8, Shin Ki Shik, the witness Kajiyama, a
doctor, testified that he cane to hin for treatment on the 24th of
April and was with him from 1100 until 1300 on that date ( 428).
Accused No. 9, Kin Chang Shik, testified that he did not arrive
at the Kencho building until about 1430 on 24 April at which time
the
RESTRICTLD

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-7-
the negotiations were under way. He went to the jail to secure the
release of the 65 prisoners and obtained two trucks in which to drive
them away. They were brought to the Kencho but the trucks were
obtained because some of the prisoners could not walk (R 577).
6. Comment:
a. In view of the meager identification of Accused No. 4,
Kim Ko Hong, and No. 7, Cha Yong Seok, the comnission justifiably
rendered a finding of not guilty as to these accused of all speci-
fications and the charge. Only one witness testified that he
"thought" No. 4 was present during the negotiations in the Governor's
office on the 24th of April (R 470). Accused No. 7 took the stand
and established the unrefuted alibi that he was at work at his shop
the entire day of the 24th of April, that he had nothing to do with
and knew nothin of the riot.
There is evidence in this case to establish by an over-
whelming preponderance an unlawful assembly to the terror of the
populace as well as the other illegal acts growing out of this cir-
cumstance and charged in specifications 2 through 6. So thorough is
the proof of all factual allegations as to make further discussion
in this regard unnecessary. It renains for the record to contain
identification of each accused and his connection with the riot and
other illegal acts as alleged. This also is accomplished so thorough-
ly and by so many witnesses as not to require specific reference in
this review. It is of importance, however, since this is fundamental-
ly a case of riot and the accused were brought before the commissions
for trial as leaders, that the record should contain evidence estab-
lishing these accused as positive participants and active instigators
of uncontrolable violence. There is such evidence preponderantly
established which, in part and in sunnary, is as follows:
No. 1, Kim Dai Sam:
(by far the most active leaders
No. 2, Kim Yong Ho:
)of all the accused. The chief
No. 3, Ryo Min Seo:
(negotiators, present throughout
)the entire day, acted repeated-
(ly as spokesman for the group.
No. 4, Him Ko Hon
Acquitted.
No. 5, Chang Uhisco:
(Alerted at the beginning of the
riot by Col. Rehkop, he made no
(effort to bring in the Governor
as instructed. Was present
(throughout entire scene (R445).
)A member of the committee that
(first went to see the Governor.
No. 6, Kazutomo liorikawa:(A Japanese in no way connected
)with the Korean movement, was
(present continually. Made a
)speech urging mob in street to
(continue their disturbance. Re-
)ceived 2,000 yen as gift either
(for himself or the Communist
)Party for his part.
No. 7, Cha Yong Seok:
Acquitted.
RESTRICTED
No. 8

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
- 8 -
No. 8, Shin Ki Shik:
(A violent participant, in con-
)stant defiance of authority,
(destroyed phones in Governor's
)office.
No. 9, Kin Chang Shik: (Took active part in release of
)prisoners, went to jail with
(Tanabe, secured truck for their
)transfer, brought them back to
(Kencho. Was first to bare his
)chest to Mr's and tell them to
(shoot.
b. There is no coubt that the coinission having been appointed
by the Commanding General, Lighth Army, was properly constituted
under the authority of 1etter, GH, 0Ar, 19 February 1946, "Estab-
lishment of Military Uccu ational Courts," as amended by letter, GHQ,
SCAP, 19 Septenber 1946, "Amendments to xercise of Civil and Criminal
Jurisdiction." The persons charged were properly before the commis-
sion for trial and the subject matter of trial on the surface falls
within the definition of acts overtly prejudicial to the Occupation
and its security. The court properly overruled the pleas to the
jurisdiction (R 27).
c. The cuestion arises hether specifications 2 through 6 do
not, in whole or in part, allege offenses that are lesser included
of specification 1, such as to represent a multiplicity of charges,
since specification 1 al leges enerally the offense of riot. Are not
these other specifications specific descriptions of acts which only
evidenced the riot charged in specitication 1, and as such should be
simply alleged as part of this specification? Two diametrically
opposite positions may be argued in this regard: First, it may be
said that the enphasis in an allegation of riot is upon the unlawful
assembly to the terror of the populace. There is therefore no reason
why these separate acts of violence, occurring as they did away from
the street scene or the eneral scene of riot, may not be separately
charged. They were separately committed, distinguishable by nature
and necessary to properly appraise the accused and the court of this
incident. Second, it may be said that specifications 2 through 6
are simply a recital of facts which describe the riot scene. As such
they should have been included in specification 1. This second
position is undoubtedly the more tenable legal approach. Specifi-
cations 2 through 6 allege such offenses as unlawful entry, assault,
wrongful detention. There is onl/ one way to prove such separate
al legations and that is by proving the corpus delicti and connecting
the various accused with the offense. This the prosecution has not
done. Instead, the prosecution has progressed on the theory that all
principals to a riot are fuilty of all acts of lawlessness committed.
But this could only be so ir such acts are charged as a part of and
indeed, define the riot. To find the accused guilty of an assault,
charged alone in a separate specification, it must be shown that the
accused himself connitted assault, not that the accused is guilty be-
cause he was a principal to a riot charged in another specification.
What would happen to the assault under this theory if the riot speci-
fication failed in proof?
However, the nature of this case is not such as to com-
pel answer to this problem. It is well settled that even where there
has
RESTRICTED

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
- 9 -
has been an unnecessary multiplication of charges, this is not pref-
udicial when the sent ence imposed is within the limit for any one of
the specifications (Bul1 JAG, 1944, p. 234). There are no maximum
sentences in this case and a review of the sentences awarded does
not indicate that the multiplicity affected the outcome of trial, for
the same sent ences might well have been awarded for any one of the
specifications alleged.
d. The accused take the position in this case that they were
part of a grouppursuing a lawful purpose, that they progressed toward
the accomplishment of this purpose and that it simply "got out of
hand." The facts and the law refute such a position. The established
proof that an uncontrolled mob of Koreans set out on the illegal mis-
sion of enforcing their will on the government, irrespective of the
means that had to be employed, cannot be avoided. In its inception,
the concerted will of this group was illegal. They had the intent
mutually to assist one against anyone who should oppose them. A
proper defense in this case would be proof that the individual, if
present, was engaged in suppressing participants, instead the evidence
supports the contrary, that the accused were actually the ringleaders
and took an active part in the lawlessness and acts of violence. Nor
would it be necessary to extend the definition of the law this far
in order to find the accused guilty as charged. As a general rule,
where "their presence is intentional, and where it tends to the en-
couragement of the rioters," it may be prima facie inferred that they
are participants, each chargeable with responsibility for the acts
of the others (22 C.J.S., Criminal Law, Par 87a; U.S. v. Kan, Hea
Chang, et al, Mil Comm Chinju Korea, 11-18 Feb 47). Eminently is
this the case where police officers arrive and demand that those
present give assi stance in suppressing the difficulty. From that
point on there can be, "deliberately remaining, no neutrals."
(wharton's Criminal Law, Vo1 2, Sec 1865, 12th d)
e. The charge in this case alleges acts "prejudicial to the
security" and "the objectives" of the Occupation Forces. There is no
doubt but that such a charge is one of which a duly appointed commis-
sion may properly take jurisdiction. It may be said that such a
charge should include a referece to the particular directive defin-
ing such acts as offenses as, indeed, it is always desirable to have
pleading as conplete as possible. Certain jurisdictional qualifica-
tions may al so be indicat ed in this way. Any such objection, however,
challenges the tora and not the legality of this charge.
Of the six specifications alleged, can it be said that they
appraise the accused, on the surface, of acts prejudicial to the
security and objectives of the occupation? The answer to this ques-
tion must undoubtedly be in the affirmative. The Japanese Govern-
ment, except where it has been limited by directives from SCAP, is
ordered to exercise jurisdiction over domestie disturbance and civil
police. Interference in this authority is manifestly an interference
with: the objectives of the Occupation.
Specification 2 is a possible exception which, stripped of
descriptive matter, alleges an assault and unlawful entry. The
proven facts of this case, however, unquestionably show the underlying
connection of the assault and unlawful entry with the illegal purposes
behind the riot. Thus, they may be said to fall within the general
definition of prejudicial acts described by the charge.
f.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-10 -
f. It appears that due to extreme illness, the accused No. 6,
Horikawa, was absent repeatedly throughout the trial (R 125). The
commission proceeded with the trial in his absence to his convic-
tion and sentence along with the other accused. The president
repeatedly asked the defense counsel whether or not this accused
was being kept up to date and the accused was brought in before the
findings and sentence were announced. The accused is required to
be present in court throughout the entire proceeding (par 55, MC,
1928). However, in the absence of procedure so prejudicial as to
be shocking to the conscience, this must be held sufficient as an
expediency under paragraph 4d, 1etter GHQ, SCAP, 19 February 1946,
"Establishment of Military Occupation Courts." Under this provision
the commission has authority to prescribe such rules of procedure
as are necessary for the expeditious handling of the case.
E. Under paragraph 5, 1etter GHQ, CAP 19 February 1946, the
accused are entitled to a copy of the charges before trial and are
entitled to have present at the trial both counsel and interpreter.
It is thus the obvious intention of this letter that the accused
should have a couy of the charges that would be intelligible to the
accused, that is, a copy in some language understood by the accused.
The accused were originally served with a copy of the charge and
specifications in unglish, contrary to this provision (R 24). How-
ever, it cannot be said that the accused were thus prejudiced. No
objection was made by the defense, the president ordered the charge
and specifications served in Japanese (a 25) and indeed the whole
record translated in open court for the benefit of the accused.
There were no motions for continuance or requests by the defense
fortime in which to prepare the defense that were not reasonably
granted. The entire record indicates that the accused were well pre-
pared. The trial lasted for 40 days. There is no doubt but that
the accused were given adequate notice.
h. The record in this case is cluttered with inconsequential
trivia, immaterial argument hetween counsel and unnecessary instruc-
tions from the court. For example, several pages of the record are
filled with discussion between counsel and the court, in which the
prosecution attempted to ret what anounted to an order of the court
permitting the taking of a deposition (R 194); at page 31, defense
requested an open discussion of the prosecution's view of the case;
definitions purportin to have legal consequence were read from
Webster's Dictionary (a 33); and directive letters to the trial
judge advocate and jurisdictional directives from SCAP were read in-
to the record (i 8-l0). The nost that can be said, however, is that
a voluminous and tangled record has been submitted which although
procedurally confused, has not prejudiced the accused.
Further, there are many exaaples where the commission, out
of an attitude of extreme fairness, went to great trouble, at the ex-
pense of time and effort to grant the slightest request of the accused
(i 21, 26, 38, 68). without reservation it nay be said that the ac-
cused received a fair and impartial trial, were granted rights beyond
the legal requirements and were aost ably defended by both civilian
and appointed defense counsel.
i. In concluding this comnent, a review of the record in this
case indicates that, except for those procedural matters expressly
excepted
RESTRICTED

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
- 11 -
excepted by letter GH2, SCAP, 19 February 1946 and the question
raised in paragraph f above, this case could be reviewed upon the
standards of procedure indicated in the United States Army MCM, 1928
and held legally sufficient thereunder. It may also be noted that
only once was it necessary to resort to paragraph 4d, letter GHQ,
CAP, 19 February 1946, wherein the commission is authorized to
alter the formal procedure of trial in order to justify procedural
action of tle commission in the trial of this case.
7. lenency: Counsels for the accused, members of their
families and interested persons have submitted petitions for clemency
on their tehalf. Said petitions have been examined and attached to
the record.
There is some uestion whether the facts of this case justi-
fy the sentences imposed. Although an unmistakable case of riot has
been proved, the facts renain that it is minimized by: A failing in
proof to show physical injury to anyone, the presence of dangerous
weapons, there was no great terror among the people to cause anyone
to flee from the scene, actual strikin: or threat beyond simple
assault and intimidation. There is mitigation in the fact that this
occurrence arises out of prolonged racial difficulty and a desire of
the Koreans simply to be left alone. The inception of the difficulty
was in positive action taken by the Japanese, not the Koreans. A
study of the accused themselves indicates that they are not a criminal
type, they are school teachers and leaders among their people. Al-
though the acts do chsrge offenses prejudicial to the security and
objectives of the Occupation, they are not directly so. There was
an obvious belief on the part of all that they were simply solving a
Korean-Japanese problem, lon festered by o pression of a minority
group. Only the ccused Horikawa indicated a premeditated intent
distinuishable from the aoove. He was not a art of the movement
and simply injected hinself into it for whatever personal advantage
he night zet or whatever enbarrassnent he mi ht cause the Japanese
Government. His oifense, therefore, is actually nore serious than
that of the others.
Chapter VI11, Japanese Jode, 1907, as amended, carries a
maximum sentence of 10 years for t e ringleaders of a riot. Assault
with the intent to comait a felony carries a maximum sentence of 10
years confinement in the i., 1929. This case does not contemplate
riot in its most serious aspects ari consequently punishable in the
maximum anounts. It is therefore reconmended that the sentences be
reduced to one-half that awarded in each case with the exception of
Horikawa whose sentence should not be reduced below that approved
for any of the other accused.
8. ypinion:
a.
The comnission was properly constituted.
b.
It had jurisdiction of the persons and offenses.
C.
The evidence supports the findings of guilty.
d.
The record contains no errors injuriously affect-
ing the substantial rights of the accused.
e.
The sentences are legal.
9.
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's
No. 512, August 12, 1948.
-12-
9. Reco mendations:
It is accordingly recomnended that:
a.
The sentences be approved and duly executed as
outlined in paragraph 7 above.
b.
A forn oi action desi med to carry this recom-
mendation into effect is attached hereto.
HARION H. SHOAK
Major
JAGD
ass't Staff Judge Advocate
I concur in principle. retitions for clemency have been fully
considered.
Pleading the separate acts in separate specifications was correct
as it avoided multifariousness and facilitated a defense by accused
as to the matters against which they had proof. Since it was estab-
lished in the instances where ruilt was adjudged that the accused
concerned were participants either actively or by aiding and abetting
by word and act as accessories (hence principals), the corpus delicti
was proved (50 Bit 3 220J rim Law 157).
Chang Chisco and the others sought and accepted leadership in the
negotiations. They led a crowd which some of its leaders had whipped
up into fury by oratory and en hasizing fancied wrongs up to the
vicinity of the object of its wrath, the Governor. Can it be said
that he who advances the unpowder to a spark shall not be held for
the consequences? The law holds one for the reasonable results of
his actions. These leaders are not above the law.
The statements in the foregoing review concerning reduction of
sentences are not concurred in. The fact that the culprits were in-
telligent persons militates against them. They knew that civiliza-
tion rests upon law, order, and peaceful change and correction of
alleged abuses by lawful and constitutional means not upon riot and
illegal force. They knew that the civilized nations are building
democracy in Japan by use of the carefully supervised Japanese in-
digenous governnental structure. When Occupation Force authorities
appeared on the scene, in uniforn, they violated that uniform, by
violence frustr: ted the legal lesires of its wearers and personally
assaulted them. in the only other instance of this type, an early
case involvin: Japanese accused and evidencing much less resistance
to Occupation authority, occurring near Tokyo, a sentence of life
imprisonment for the ringleader and twenty years' confinement at hard
labor for the other participants was approved. Approval of the
sentences as adjudged by the commission is recomnended.
ALLATONL
Lt Col
JAGD
Staff Judg Advocate
RESTRICTED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.94)
STAHDARD FONG NO. 64
RESTRICTED
RBOBVAD
TO
O - Mr. Franklin Ray
DATE: August 16, 194
SEP 7 - 1948
FROM :
DRF - Charles C. Stelle
DIVLION OF
SUBJECT:
DRF Information Note # 195, Comments on the Memorandum Concerning
the Purge of ISHIBASHI Tanzan.
In response to your telephone request of August 12, 1948, to Mrs.
Alden, attached are comments on the memorandum concerning the purge
of ISHIbASHI Tanzan, forwarded to the Department by Mr. Harry F. Kern
89
of the American Council on Japan.
94.00/8-1648
2
CS/A
WSH
894.
8-1648
RESTRICTED
0.2390-1B

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
7
DRF Information Note #195
August 16, 1948
COMIENTS ON MEMORANDUM CONCERNING THE PURGE OF ISHIBASHI TANZAN
The information conoerning the purge of ISHIBASHI Tanzan contained
in the memorandum forwarded by Mr. liarry F. Kern is in general confirmed
by information available from other sources, including the off-the-
à
record statements of former SCAP officials. Some of the details of the
case were not previously known to DRF, e.g., Ishibashi's attempt to get
an interview with General Whitney and the petitions filed by prominent
individuals in behalf of Ishibashi. The conclusions stated by the au-
thor of the memorandum (pages V and VI) are in most instances substan-
tially accurate. In connection with the conclusion stated in Item a,
p. V, it might be noted that it is certainly well known in Japan, at
least among the politically informed groups, that General Headquarters
intervened to order the Japanese screening comnittee to purge Ishibashi
after he had previously been clesred by the committee. On the other
hand, the conclusion stated in  tem c, p. V. seems to be overstated, ac-
cording to information available here.
DRF has never reviewed the contents of the Oriental Economist
during the prewar period in order to determine whether the editorial
opinions expressed therein were of a militaristic or anti-American
character. DRF is, theretore, not in a position at this time to judge
whether the SJAP interpretation of the editorial character of this
nagazine is correct. Regardless of whether or not the SCAP position
that Ishivashi should be purged on the basis of his editorship of the
Oriental Eeonomist can be justified, there is evidence that the finan-
cial policies pursued by Ishibashi, while he was Finance inister in
RESTRICTED
7

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
2
tne Yoshida Cabinet, were disapproved by headquarters officials.
It should be noted that the purge was instituted by a SCAP direo-
tive issued on January 4, 1946 pursuant to the statement in the Potsdam
Declaration that reads: "There must be eliminated for all time the au-
thority and influence of those who have deceived and misled the people
of Japan into embarking on world conquest...." By the directive,
and Japanese ordinances issued subsequent thereto, this provision of
the Potsdam Declaration was broadly interpreted. SCAP has reviendthe
actions of the Japanese purge committees and has on other occasions
intervened to order the purge of individuals previously cleared by the
Japanese committees. SCAP supervision of the operation of the purge is
clearly within the field of implenentation of policy that SCAP has main-
tained is its exclusive jurisdiction, ed therefore neither the US Govern-
ment nor the FEC has attempted to interfere.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.93)
RONVED
TO
: O - Mr. Ray
DATE: August
SEP 7 - 1948
FROM : NA - Mr. A1118
DIVONA OF
suBject: Ishibash1 Statement.
I understand that Mr. Fearey has already discussed
our proposed change in the attached letter to Mr. Kern
with you.
894.00/8-1648
I suggest that in sending a copy of the Ishibashi
statement to the Army we say that we assume there must
be considerations on the other side, but that if there
is any truth at all in the statement it is a deplorable
situation and would seem to merit an inquiry of sCAP.
Copies of the Ishibashi statement are enclosed.
CS/A
FW894.00/8-1648
eE
Dist
NA:RAFearey:1t

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.91)
Zaclesures:
CE
General G. L. Eeerls
Acting Chief, Civil Affairs Division
aparteent of the Aray
8 1948 P.M.
Washington, D. 0.
E-1C
D:FJRay,Jr:mwo
NA
9/3/48
cleared in draft
by J. A.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.97)
DeL
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ACTION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITIGALER
NDRTHEAST AKIAN AFFAIRS
SEP
No. 536
(pz)
August 19, 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RESTRICTED
894.00/8-1948
5
Subject: Japanese Police Ban on Parades and Demonstrations in Osaka.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch No. 527 of August 17, 1948 forwarding e copy
of a letter from Major General A. P. Kislenko, Acting Soviet Member,
Allied Council for Japan, to General of the Army Douglas MacArthur,
and to enclose a copy of a press release of August 12, 1948 from
General Headquarters, Far East Command, concerning General Kislenko's
demand that a regulation concerning meetings and demonstrations
issued by the Osaka Police Department on July 13, 1948 be cancelled.
In his letter, General Kislenko claimed this regulation was another
step in the Occupation's program to suppress activities of labor
unions, and in essence grants the police the right to prohibit any
meeting or demonstration or arrest any participants in these activities
and their leaders.
In the press release, the Commanding General of I Corps, Major
General Joseph M. Swing, denied the issuance of a directive by the
Provost Marshal of the 25th Infantry Division, on which General Kislenko
had claimed the police regulation was based. General Swing stated
that the police had acted on an informel memorandum from the Provost
Marshal prepared when the Japanese police sought his advice, and that
parts of the instructions issued by the Japanese police which General
Swing found to interfere unduly with the rights of assembly were
reseinded on his orders.
CS
Furthermore, Generel Swing declared that on its own initiative
NV
the Osaka City Assembly passed an ordinance on the same subject, but
since parts of it appeared to violate the civil liberties of the
Japanese people he directed that the ordinance be held in abeyance
until the next meeting of the assembly (about September 1). The
Public Safety Committee of Osaka met on August 13, in an emergency
session, and agreed immediately to suspend the operation of the ordinance
and to subject demonstrations and public gatherings only to the restriction
promulgated on December 26, 1946 which requires advance notice of five
days. The Osaka Municipal Assembly is expected to hold an urgent session
to act formally in this matter.
While the actions of the Occupation authorities in Osaka clearly
inaicate an alertness to the need for protecting the civil liberties
of the Japanese people, the issuance of an ordinance after receipt of an
informal memorandum from the local Occupation authorities gave General
Kislenko a pretext sufficient for use to attack the labor policies
advocated by this Headquarters. General Kislenko ignored the subsequent
steps taken by General Swing to rescind any orders which might be conatrued
as infringements of civil liberties.
Enclosure:
Press Release, August 12, 1948.
800
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp
BESTRICAED

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 536
dated August 19, 1948 from the
Office of the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject,
"Japanese Police Ban on Parades and
Demonstrations in Osaka".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COM:AND
Public Information Office
Immediate Release
12 August 1948
WITH THE EIGHTH ARY IN KYOTO--In regard to a statement appearing
in the Nippon Times of Thursday, August 12, 194e, to the effect that
last week 25th Division officers denied they had ever instructed
Japanese police to issue restrictions on public meetings, the Command-
ing General of I Corps, Maj. Gen Toseph M. Swing, issued the following
amplifying statement today:
"To prevent the recurrence of riots similar to those in
the Osaka-Kobe aree on the 23d and 24th of April, the Japanese
police of Osaka City, when informed thai. unauthorized parades
and demonstrations were being planned on the 13th and 15th of
July, sought the advice of the tactical troops es to the manner
in which to preserve order. Acting on an informal memorandum
prepared by the Provost Mershal, 25th Division, which indicated
measures taken under similar circumstances in the United States,
the Japenese police about July l2th issued general instructions
on parades, demonstrations and other activities involving public
safety and tra fic congestion. Such parts of those instructions
which might be construed as interferring unduly with the right
of assembly were rescinded promptly by my orders.
"Shortly thereafter the Osaka City Assembly on its own
initietive passed an ordinance on the same subject. Some
provisions of this ordinance I considered violated Scapin 93,
which granted civil liberties to the Japanese people. Accordingly
on August 2d, I directed that implementation of this ordinance
be held in abeyance pending further consideration of its provisions
at the next regular meeting of the Osaka City Assembly about the
lst of September".

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's x-178
August 50, 1948
- 2 -
ITaSaiA, Huokichi, former councillor in the inistry of Foreign
affairs.
FaS.I, Uunosuke, former Chief of the Internal Department of
Liyagi Irefectural Government.
ITO, hideyo, former Chief of the ducutional Depurtment of
Nagasaki rrefectural Government.
ITa, Iwao, former Chief of Bunk Inspection Section, inistry of
Finance, und former Dircctor of Bank of Japan.
ANDo, Suburo, forler Chief of the Live-Stock Bureau, …inistry of
agriculture und Forestry.
GoTo, hinichi, former Chier of the marine Trunsport tion Bureau,
inistry of Transport tion.
LaKu Ua., kohachi, former Chief of the Patent Bureau, Ministry of
Conuerce and Industry.
FUkUI, Isamu, former Technicel Official in the  inistry of ducation.
akaI, sadaichi, former ohief of the Internal bep rtment of a
refectural covern.ent (nae of the prefecture unknown).
.I alI, Yoshio, former government ofricial (detail unknown)
lnKe..Ur:, Noboru, forer public prosecutor.
HasLImOTo, Ryugo, former Senior Secretary in the  inistry of Finance.
IhDa, Yujin, former Vice inister of Finance.
YoshIT.k, Keiichi, Former Viee  inisbor of Lebor
SaTo, Eisaku, former Vice minister or I sport tion.
KalaB.Ta, Yoshio, former seuretary to  intster of griculture-
Forestry Latsumuru.
YasUDa, Motoshichi, former Chief of Conmerce-Industry Bureuu of
Shikoku.
MORIShIia, Goro, former inister in the winistry of Foreign ffeirs.
KA.. AGOd, higeru, former mbassudor in the  Inistry of Foroi en
Affairs.
COIFIJENTIAL

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.88)
Tkyo's A-178
ust01948
…3
J Kul., Kenshi, for er ice Governor of aitame Prefecture
( . Tukeo, former Deputy Director of the Jonstruction
Board.
YaG Ichiro, Porer Vice Governor of Y guchi Prefecture.
 o, tohide. former ch of of the and T insportation sureau
of the  inlstry o co.unisusions
BALD

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
Porm DS-302
(7-2-40)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
A
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FE
Office ot
9
lete
PLAIN
N
Action: FE
C5
Info:
Contro1850 ot State
P
0
H
September 3, 1948
SAM
7r
5:29 a.m.
EUR
OLA
CIA
FROM:
Shar ghai
OFD
FC
TO:
Seeretary of State
POS
PA
NO:
194c, September 3
BURX
DCR
Following is Centre Ners Agency item datelined Tokyo Septem-
ber 2:
"Seme famil ar prewar pelitical patterns have re-
cent ty reapprared in Japan. The doninant characteristic
894.00/
of the tendeney during the pass few months has been the
deve copment of extremes of ool tical thinking which in the
Jong run may pe sagrificant.
"Struggle (or political power n this couniry today is
beginning to invo ve the uitra vight and extreme left As
recently rported by Certra: ews prewar nationalistic cr-
ganizations and their cid leaders are'volwnteering for ser-
6
vice ageins growing ini luenee of the Communists whe have
1
an inereasle number of non-Comunist supporters
CN
4
Before the next general eiection takes place there will prob-
8
ably be som- :ocsely organize1 federation of anti-Cemmunist
forces centared arcund we acge conservat lve parties and
pitted agannst che smals but  il organized Comanumist Party
and vheir ron-Ccmmun1st sympactizers who include large ele-
ments of oryanized laber. Despite SCAp's constant encourage-
ment vhe mijd e-of-the-xonders have practieally disappeared
From Japaneso palitles duving he past fev months. The Sos-
ial Demoeratie Farty waten was the strengest hope in this
field has atooty deterlorated us a result of internal dis-
sension. Toese smong tve cone rvative parties whe were more
progressive and who forne iy oaivoeated the middle course in
polit tes have apparentry abanduned waeir erforts in thiscs
direction aod taken up  eo -Sonmunist banner along wdth
the prewer petienal tst aeoupe who shew slgns cf revival
1
"Thus the  uar icn nor tet  which eonser vat ive fordes
6
4
backed
3
HH
FLAN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAIN
2- #1940, September 3 from Shangha1
backed by the majority of the people who are generelly
passive in politics are trying to prevent expansion of
Communist influence among growing numbers of workers and
farmers who are dissatisfied with economic conditions.
Thie recalls the situation in Japan shortly before the
younger military men began their series of terroristic
actions which eventually cowed the people into submission
to militarists. The difference between the situation now
and that of 20 years ago 1s that the Japanese Communist
Party has a legally and constitutionally guaranteed right
to exist and operate as a political organization.
"One significant aspect of the present struggle between the
extremes in Japanese politics 1s the fact that the tradi-
tional love of the Japanese people for their Emperor 1s
being exploited for political purposes. The rightist ele-
ments are using as their main argument in their attempt to
stunt the growth of Communism in this country the fact that
rise of Communism is a threat to their beloved Tenno system.
"Some wariime organizations which were devoted to protection
of the Emperor and Tenno system have recently quietly re-
vived their activities unofficially although they were
ordered dissolved by SCAP during the early days of occupa-
tion and their Jeaders purged. On the other hand the Com-
murists recognize the new wave of popularity the Emperor
enjoys among the majorlty of the Japanose people and there-
fore have relegated their demands for abolition of the
Tenno system into the background.
"There is no question that SCAP is anti-Communlst and w1ll
therefore unofficially encourage all forces against Communism
as long as baslc understanding botween the United States
and Russia is non-existent.
"However due to the complicated chareeter of the rightest
forces and the fact that most of them were proclaimed un-
desirable by the occupation authorities because of their
prewar and wartime association with Japanese military this
1s an extremeiy toucny question".
Sent Tekyo 173, repeated D partment.
CABOT
WMH .DH
PI.AIN

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.88)
D
v5
Anal
CC
Organiaing Comaittse,
Cat.
The Ameriean Cowmcil on Japan,
85 Läberty Streot,
Dist.
8 1948 P.M.
New York 5, New York
Generel Eberle

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
FB-M.Buthoit
W. R. CASTLE
2200 S STREET
WASHINGTON 8, D.C.
September 6, 1948
Ano 9/7/48
Department of Stat
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SP-1948
Washington, D. C.
uiRALises
SEP61948
My dear Mr. Lovett:
08
I recently
had a letter from Count N.
6
Makino about the situation in Japan, end Joe Grew sug-
94.00/9-648
gests that you might be interested in the pertinent
parts of the letter. I am threfore, sending a copy.
Count Makind, as you undoubtedly
know, was the principal adviser to the Emperor. He
has always been a good friend of America, and although
he does not say anything definite about communism, I
think you can read between the lines. The organiza
tion of which he writes in the lest paragraph, 1s,
of course. the American Council of Japan, of which
both Joe Grew and I are me-bers. I hope it can do
some good, esnecially in keeping necessary informa-
tion before the Denartments here.
Sincerely yours,
1D.U. Calle
W. R. CASTLE
68
i F
(S) ASIAN AFFRS
Enclosure
y
Copy of Letter e/3/48
SEP -. 1948
C
S.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.93)
gofuta. Tanaka-mura.
Higashi Katoushike-gun,
3rd August, 1948
Chiba Prefeeture.
Japan
Dear Mr. Castle:
Your letter of 30th Jume wae thankfully
received, your kind thougnts about our welfare is a
great help and encouragement in these time of disorder
and hardship. I m flad to hear of your impressiom of
our mperr; you say that he holds Japan together. and
that he will have much to do with the rehabilitation of
the count ry. Thase lines litarally describe the presant
situation here, end I think Gener l Hucarthur will -
dorse it. The peuple are so sed to the long tradition
of the Imoerial Rogime. pnd t ke it as a matter of course
that they don't py enout attent lon to the world wide
movenente and changes ther are takin, plece is the pol-
ital systams brod.
ut the pubvereiva eleme ts imported. and
a limited number of i ter al adherant- are keener. and
stealthily try to wmal en. if rossible to mstroy. the
existing basle fondution of the vatioral str cture.
end no doubt the 'mparor svsten t their target. Bowever,
es mattar- et nd at prmaast t'a arcmachmont is silner
ficial unl lirited. bt you kn w theee asente are unti ring
wo rkers. which requires aiontia afi: ite policy to count-
eract. and to suitobly disnos these ravoiutionary mot-
ivities. Chese counter measures rast e sust ined in-
definitely. fter the war mort countries are suffering
frmm priv tion an these e ant3 with funde at their di
nosal. are welcone by there liseffacted el emente, and I
em afreid somethi o" the kini ie har antng hare although
in un eur?  stose, S0ap ie heoin us in meoting this
sit: tion.
In tiark your cort r, with t lucking
of the popular opinion ts t ki  I ad to stem this orrant
tide to restore orier nd ence in thi: verld. Never
before in iistury vud axeunle of I lh spirit md high
ideals lhave actually diracted the policy of a netion.
I am followin the curse of events in Eurone end else
whare and leads ne to aimire and anvy your country.
Parsonally I ettribute thls unirue example as an outcome

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.91)
of Amerioan civilisation. The naw body you have just
organised will be interested in these matters.. I have
speken with Toshida. Kmbayams and others about your
Comcil, and they are all impressed with your unfmiling
kindnese. They are thinking of setting up a similar body
here to cooperate with you I om sure they will infom
you when mattere taire definite share Our newepapers have
tramitted New York dispatch ahout the formation of your
Counell, ridio has aleo voiced the news several timns. If
such body comes to axistence, te firat duty will he to
explain whet demilitarised Japan meens in all its bearing.
Aside from the proner sorvice o' the ocrup-tion forces, the
fact of tte mpreor tented number of Americens in our midst
has helped to create mutual underatanding. I think the 
sult on the whole is beneficial to our future mlation.
I am sure no trace f ravenpeful ampto- has been detected
during their intere urse here, -lth ugh some quartere soem
to be anxious t gu rd gai st fut re posoibilities.
中ee中e中he
中中中中政中中中
Yours ratefully.
1d).k1na
P. S. Pleaae kinlly convey ur thun s t or enicer en
promotersthC ncil.
P
Y

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
Fel
W. R. CASTLE
2200 S STREET
EFK.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
September 6, 1948
POLICY PLANNING
894.00/9-648
rile
George F. Kennan, Esquire
9/26EP 7 1948
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Department of State
Dear Mr. Kennan:
I am enclosing an excerpt from a letter
which I had from Count Makino in Japan. as Joe Grew
said he thought you would be interested in it. He
elso suggestad that I furnish a copy to Mr. Lovett
and Walton Butterworth in the Department, and to Royal
in the War Dpartment.
I do not kmow whether you met Makino when
you were in Japan, but you undoubtedly know of him as
the principal adviser to the Emperor. It always seems
to me that comments fmm neople of this kind, whom we
can completely trust, are very well worth having.
You made some very wise observations about
what you saw in Janan, and I wish sometime we could
get together and talk over the situation. We used to
know each other a little, but have not seen each other
for a long ti me. Curiously, I know Kewk pretty well,
and you should be the natural one to know. If you
ever have a moment's time, I wish you would give me a
ring at North 2200. and set a date when I can give you
luncheon.
Very sincerely,
wiclian R. Caall
W. R. CASTLE
Enclosure
Letter of 3/3/48

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.96)
Toyofuts, Tanaka-mura,
Highi Fatsushika-m,
3rd August, 1948
Chiba Prefecture,
Japan
Dear Mr. Castle:
Your letter of 30th June was thankfully
recelved. your kind thoughts about our welfare is a
great help and encouragement in these time of disorder
and hardship. I m glad to hear of your impression of
our Emperor: you say thet he holds Japan together. and
that he will have much to do with the rehabilitation of
the count ry. These lines literally describe the present
situetion here, end I think General MacArthur will em-
dorse it. The people are so used to the long tradition
of the Imperial Regime, and t  ke it as a matter of course
that they don't pay enough attontion to the world wide
moverents and chenges thrt are takins plece in the pol-
ital syatame abroad.
But the subversive elenents imported, and
a limited number of i terual adherent3 are keener, and
stealthily try to wmpten. if nosstble to dest roy. the
existing basic foundtion of the national structure.
and no doubt the mperor system is their target. However
"s mstters st nd at present the ancr achrent is aunar
ficiel end limited, hut you know these agents are umtiring
morkers. which requires edonting lefinite policy to count
aract. and to suitably disnose these revolutionary act-
'vities. Theze counter meas res must be sustsined in-
dafinitely. After tle wer most countries are suffaring
from privation and tese agents with funds at their die
nosal. are welcomed by thase diseffected alements, and I
em afraid something of the kind ia hannening here although
in an early stage. SAp is helping us in meeting this
situ:tion.
In this vor your count ry. with the backing
of tre popul,r oninion is taking lead to stem this errant
tide to resture urder and veace : this vorld. Never
before in history such example of high spirit and high
ideals have actually directed the policy of a nation.
I em following the course of events in Eurone and else-
whare and leade me to admire and envy your country.
Parsonally I attribute this unique example as an outcome

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.95)
of mcrisam civilisation. The new body you have just
orgamised will be interested in these matters.. I have
spokem with Yeshida, Kabayame and others about your
Comcil, and they are all impressed with your mfailing
kindnese. They are thinking of setting up a similar body
here to cooperate with you. I  sure they will inform
you when matters take definite shape. Our newspapers have
tramitted New York disnatch about the formation of your
Couneil, radio has also voiced the news several timas. If
such body comes to eristence, the first duty will be to
explain what demilitarised Japan means in all its bearing.
Aside from the roper sarvice of the occupation forces. the
fact of thm umprecedented number of Americans in our midet
has heloed to create mutual understending. I think the ro-
smlt on the whole is beneficial to our future relation.
I en sure no trace of ravengeful symptom has been detected
during their intercuurse here, lthough some quarters seem
to he anxions to gu rd ugainst fut:re possibilities.
中中中中市中中内
Youre cratefully.
Signed) A. Makino
P. S. Please ki lly convey our thenks to orgenieers end
promoters of the Council.
C
0
P
Y

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
Dear Mr. Castle:
George Kannan has left the city for a few daye
and has asked me to acknowledge your letter of Bep-
tember 17. He is deeply appreciative-of your cour-
tesy in sending your views, which he will consider
when he returns in a few days.
We wish to express again our deep appreciation
for your helpfulness last week.
Sincerely yours,
Carlton Savage
Executive Secretary
Poliey Planning Staff
894.
The Honorable
William R. Castle,
2200 "S" Street, Northwest,
DCA
Washington, D. C.
Ane?
Rey.
h
S/P:CSavage:ah
A trum copy of
the signed orig-
inal
9H

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
00/9-648
Bear Mr. Castle:
I acknowledge with thaaks reesipt of
your letter of September 6 enelosing a sepy
of a communieation from Coust Makims em the
sitwation in Japan. Nr. Grew has bsen good
enough to supply us with copies of other
a
letters containing matters of interest to
the Department and we are most appreciative
of your continued thoughtfulness.
I am passing on to Mr. Batterworth, in
the Far Eastern Division, the information
you were good enough to send us.
With kind regards, I an
Very sincerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
The Honorable
William R. Castle,
2200 s Street, N.W.
Washington 8, D. 0.
894.
S
.08
U:RAL:GES
/V
A the gepy of
the aign rigt
nal.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
 corded
INCOMING TELEGRAM
CONFIDENTIAL
979
FE
Control 2285
D
o1fice c: Rec'd September 8, 1948
Action:
Info :
FAR EASIERN AFFAIHS
9:25 a.m.
DCR
Str19 1948
LOG
FROM:
Tokyo
DIRECTOR
SS
Depariment of State
TO:
Seeretery of State
NO:
G-63630, September 8 (Army Meseage)
EYES ONTY FROM GENDERAL MACARTHUR TO SECRETARY OF STATE.
xR50
PERSONAL TO SECRED:RY MARHHALIL
*890.00/4-750
It is with sone dirfidence that I send you this message
contertuce
00/9
as I em loath indecd in cny ver to inject myself into
the administmatave afrmirs o a department to which I
890
co. not directly be ons.  only do so in this instance
in order not only vo do Justice to the individual con-
890.00
cerned but elso more basically to render proper support
-848
and prestige to the Amepican effort in the occupation
of Japan. I refer to the case of the Acting Political
Adviser, Willlem J Sdoald, who has with marked efficiency
and real dintinction filled the position of the chief
Department of  tute representetive in Japan since the
death of Ambassador Ceorge Atcheson in August of last
P
year.
Sinee that dabe Sebala hen been siven no recognition
couvonsurete vith o beany promponeibilities which he has
earried es beputy, Chatrman cnd Unlted Stetes member,
Allsed couneil for opr. an crler or Diplematio Section.
and as Aoolre colar aoml  vaoor in curryans out his
Functions as State mr t ent peprecentetive. In the
exoreise of hls mo r cutser bo has coneistently
demonetputed eler t  stissive, snd the highest
vence of vesnonssbr i cougles with en awarenees of the
importenee or his por ter nu  isoy nember of my starf.
 earnestly reconmend
S
DC/R
H
Anal.
Rev-
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNEDCEO-DEAR-CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAREN.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2- C-63630, September 8 (Army Message) from Tokyo.
I earnestly recommend that this situation be remedied
by designating Sebald as the United States Politioal
Adviser for Japan end he be given at least the personel
rank of Minister.
LMS:ECW

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.80)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
UIVISION OF
NOR:HEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REC
TELEORAPH BRANCH
PEPARTIENAY O TATE
ARCRAM
IA
3131
FROM:
USPOLAD, Toky
Dited:
September 9,18
Date of Mating: Septexber 10,18
TRICTED
CA
Reed: Set. 20,1948 2:3p
SEA
UTION PE
ret
IFO
Washin t
00/R
atate
UR/X
88. Sept
1946
OLI
∵IA
Suchiro
 cor er bepe Prime sindater  nenter or ented
00
\AN
xpoutsve Ga
o o?  eiatcbe lo ratie Party, vo was indic sd in 
6
tor perury
the  et Gor  ce t investigrie illegal Pro erty
4
rmsaction
or o ation e he eo emment unance rotocive 
.0
sgistration
latiea conal s was acquitt  ell che ges on
u just 27.
peuraterts 0 f e  decte ed Soptesl s 3 to appr al case
0/
ch vall 
mied  meve t he Tst ye Highe: lourt uates he c
pejectn the
6
1
Sociel
sos  steal i a moive seamittem ls boon woes ng 
948
ept embor
ric, s ong o a thingr wheth
 coumtense Niol
tinted 
ap in he s uw see ank whether
prese Gatpret for
Lusion
omia, let I  de matt ars are
orded us sctorre
Nishio 
neraly x e  r
slio t winy
so split vie
tww queei ns r
s01v
pro ise  a cil
mh side
fel. con 1te
thee
 fuber tmp  pary wity
censt  e nusd
pat con 
ccrate ipss se.
Thep
onted n Sop  e é b eb to
el b v G
i vosed
mond to lishau  nat re restget
a the lote tec 
had scc.p
 reee memem Tr r
wonsicPrd e
e le
wang ie as in 
a nat her 
disse uiin
deeds on or tn sstter poir nas 
ache.i.
3
ad    obe e in  d  be u
rticipat.
scels don e  nmont ut euty  bor eo eae t a r  
adats n a
al el sao.
1:7
KATAY 
sporte un  be be opposed o ssbrs  r
rty orf
s t refe kel
Nichric
3
0
t
p s
6
81
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
Edwar
工
H

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ISION OF
OF THE
ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LONDON, Sept ember 9, 1948
ATE
CONFIDENTIAL
B
Dear Butterworth,
Japanese affairs have been arousing more interest
in Britain recently than has been the case during the
past few months, largely because of the discussion in
Japan and elsewhere of the MacArthur-Ashida prohibition
of strikes and collective bargaining by civil servants
and government employees. This interest is only natural
in a country which has a Labor (Socialist) government
and a strong trade union movement.
There were several news despatches from Tokyo
published in local newspapers, describing the moves
taken by General MacArthur and Premier Ashida to prevent
a paralyzing general strike of government workers. Both
894.00
the Times and the Manchester Guardian also published
reasonably full accounts of the debate in the Allied
Council for Japan on the subject. The Economist of
August 28 published a short article on the subject,
describing the plight of the government workers in
Japan, whose salaries have not nearly kept pace with
the rising cost of living, ana the steps leading to
Ashida's Cabinet Ordinance of July 3l. The article was
not critical and concluded on the following note: "Against
6
this reproach (the resination of Killen) General MacArthur
relies on a supra-mundane authority; he triumphantly
quotes the late President Roosevelt as saying that a
力
strike by government employees is 'unthinkable and in-
tolerable'".
8
The Times on September 3 contained an editorial
which was sympathetic to General MacArthur but rather
critical of the Japanese Government and the remnants of
the Zaibatsu. After rehearsing the general history of
the growth of the trade union movement since the close
of World War II and the tendency of unions of government
workers/
William W. Butterworth, Jr., Esquire,
Director of Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.0.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
workers to fall into the hands of Communists, the
editorial stated: "General MacArthur quite properly
pointed out, in a letter to the Japanese Government,
that there was an important distinction to be drawn
between Government officials on the one hand and em-
ployees in State enterprises on the other . . . . The
Japanese Government . . . . seized the opportunity
presented by the MacArthur letter to strike a heavy
blow at the growth of trade unionism. Collective bar-
gaining was forbidden not only to Government officials
but also to all workers in the many State-controlled
industries. . . . The power of the Zaibatsu over the
politicians and the press is still so extensive that
only General MacArthur now stands between the trade
unions and the threat of virtual suppression which hangs
over them." The editorial continued by discussing the
follies of the Japanese labor leaders and the intrigues
of the Communists, and stated: "his (General MacArthur's
policy of rebuilding the economy of Japan upon free
competition, individual enterprise, small businesses, and
liberation from the stranglehold of the Zaibatsu is
hindered, not helped, by attempts on the part of trade
union officials to subvert the ordinary machinery of
administration by using their power to bring the Gov-
ernment to a standstill."
I took advantage of an opportunity to discuss this
matter of the right of government employees to strike
with MacDermot. He said that the position of the Foreign
Office continued to be that already conveyed to the
Department (Circular Airgram of August 24, 8:50 a.m.).
He said that public servants in Britain are not for-
bidden to strike, but that adequate measures are pro-
vided for their protection. For example, they are not
required, as in Japan, to petition their particular
department for relief but are permitted to submit their
grievances to an impartial tribunal. He thought that
something like this might be worked out in Japan and
hoped that SCAP would pay some attention to the little
talk of the Commonwealth Representative at the Allied
Council meeting of August 28, at which Mr. Patrick Shaw
had offered the long experiences of the British Common-
wealth in the field of labor relations for the benefit
of the Jananese Government. He said that the Foreign
Office thought that Shaw had said exactly the right
thing.
I remarked/

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
I remarked that the Soviet representative in Tokyo
had already brought the whole question before the
Allied Council and mentioned the possibility that the
Soviet representative on the FEC might introduce a
resolution into that body with the purpose of censoring,
directly or indirectly, General MacArthur for the part
he played in suppressing the government workers of
Japan. MacDermot said most emphatically that there
must be no censoring or criticism of MacArthur under
any circumstances; that the UK would absolutely oppose
any such idea. He said that the Cabinet Ordinance in
question is now being redrafted before presentation
to the Diet, and that we should take advantage of the
delay to have informal talks on the matter. If the
Soviets introduce a resolution in the FEC, we should
stall for time, in the hope that the redraft of the
Ordinance as introduced into the Diet will be acceptable.
It would be most unfortunate if there should be acri-
monious discussion of the matter in the FEC, as such
discussions always become public sooner or later. It
is essential, said MacDermot, that we suppress criticism
of MacArthur.
Miscellansous Comment. On September 2 the Times
carried a news despatch from Tokyo stating that Dr.
Justin Williams, head of the Parliamentary and Political
Division of the Government Section of SCAP, had ad-
vocated at a press conference the establishment in
Japan of a committee similar to the U.S. House Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities, for the purpose of
investigating "un-Japanese activities" - presumably
meaning Communist activities. In commenting upon this
proposal, the Manchester Guardian on September 3 had
this to say: "On Wednesday General MacArthur announced
a new recruit: Japan is becoming 'a bastion to the
democratic concept.'. . . But for sheer fantasy Dr.
Williams, one of General MacArthur's chief political
advisers, has even his master beat. Failing completely
to realize how ridiculous the House Committee on Un-
American Activities has made his own country look in
foreign eyes, he has proposed that the Tokyo Diet should
set up, with full publicity, a Committee on Un-Japanese
Activities. The Communists, whose party was legalized
in order to make Japan more democratic, are now to be
hunted in order to make her more Japanese, and when
one thinks what the main Japanese 'activity' has been
during the last seventeen years it scunds more than a
little odd."
Tha Economist/

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
The Economist of September 4 published a carefully-
prepared article by an anonymous writer (I believe it
was by a Miss Byrd, an Amerioan member of the staff of
the Economist, who sometimes calls at the Embassy to
read background material), entitled "Prospects of
Japanese Recovery." The article described the diffi-
culties experienced by Japan in endeavors to restore the
pre-war pattern of trade; the attempts made by SCAP to
have the Japanese balance their budget (attempts which
were thwarted: "In part this is due to high occupation
costs . . . and in part it is the result of Japanese
flaccidity"); the attempts now being made to pare down
reparations; the slowing down of the dissolution of the
Zaibatsu in order to increase production; the failure
of Congress to provide adequate funds for rehabilitation
of Japanese industry; the need for private foreign
investment in Japan; the bilateral trade agreements
being concluded between Japan and Far Eastern countries;
and the need for a single exchange rate for the yen
instead of the multiple rates now existing. The article
concluded: "The immediate economic prospect for Japan
does not make a cheerful picture. Japanese political
leaders will have to convince the population that for
some time to come their standard of living is likely to
be much lower than before the war. Indeed, if the
Japanese themselves were to bear the full economic
consequences of the war, there wculd be mass starvation
in the cities. Something le ss than this austerity will
be called for. But, even so, there can only be a real
break in the present impasse when Japan produces a
government prepared to face the facts - and the unpop-
ularity."
Sincerely yours,
Erle R. Dickover

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
FORUCG
1948 AUG 13AM1
10 September 1918
TMENT OF STATE
Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated 3 Septem-
894.00/9-1048
ber 1948 inclosing copies of correspondence received from Mr
Harry F. Kern of the American Council on Japan with respect
to the action taken by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers against Mr. Tanzan Ishibashi, Minister of Finance in
the Yoshida Government.
20
Mr. Kern addressed an identical communication to the
Under Secretary of the Army on 6 August 1948. This matter
has heretofore been investigated by General Headquarters, Far
East Command, and I am inclosing a copy of Mr. Draper's reply
to Mr. Kern, based on such investigation, which I trust will
be sufficient for your purposes.
Sincerely yours,
erle
Incl
G. L. EBERLE
Cy 1tr fm Mr Draper
Brigadier General, USA
to Mr Kern dtd 27
Acting Chief
Aug 48
Civil Affairs Division
894.00/9-1048
SEP
CS/V
FILED
VVL
Man
2893

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
GOPI
27 kgust 1948
American Council on Japan
55 Liberty Street
New York 5, New York
Attention: Mr. Harry F. Kern
Dear Mr. Karn:
This will acknowledge receipt of your letter of 6 August 1948
inclosing a photostat of a document written by Mr. Tansan Ishibashi,
in which he argues that his purge while holding the office of Minis-
ter of Finance in the Yoshida government was unjust.
The mtter of Tanzan Ishibashi has heretofore been called to the
attention of the Department of the Army and an investigation and re-
port has been received from General Headquarters Far East Command.
Portions of this report are quoted below for your information:
"The action taken by the Japanese Government in
screening Ishibashi, Tanzan, has been reviewed and
disapproved. Ishibashi, Minister of Finance, is to
be removed from public office and excluded from pub-
Lic service as a Category G, Appendix A, SCAPIN 550.
"As editor and president of the Oriental Economist,
he (Ishibashi) was responsible for the policies of that
publication which supported military and economic im-
perialiem in Asia, advocated Japan's adherence to the
Axis, fostered belief in the inevitability of war with
the Westsrn Powers, justified suppression of trade union-
iam, and urged imposition of totalitarian controls over
the Japanese people. * * * The supporters of Tanzan
Ishibashi are those who unmindful of the immense sacri-
fice of human and material resources occasioned by the
war, now seek insofar as possible to protect the ald
order of Japan and its institutions and influences which
share war responsibility, and whose suppression is not
only required by basic Allied policy but is a mandatory
requisite to the opportunity for future democratic growth.
259

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
"Tansan Ishibashi's voiee and pen are among
these which bear predominant responsibility for shap-
ing the Japanese mental processes toward war of con-
quest, the suppression of human rights among the
Japanese msses, and the welding of Japanese eoonomy
into the close association with the military whick
ultimately prosecuted the war. The pretense of his
friendship for the United States finds clear refutation
in his advocacy of war against the United States many
months prior to Pearl Harbor; his liberalism, in his
extolling of the virtues of Hitler and the Nazi philoso-
phy, his advocacy of a totalitarian state in peace as
in war and his hailing of the suppression of trade
unioniam; his pacifism, in his open support of militar-
istic moves and objectives and his constant plea for
expanded conquest and military s upport of Germany and
Italy against the Western Powers — all long before
the attack on Pearl Harbor or the acute deterioration
of Japanese-American relations."
While every effort has been made by General Headquarters, SCAp to use
the machinery of the Japanese Government in carrying out the direct re-
quirements of the Potsdam Declaration, that Headquarters has not hesitated
to exert pressure in cases where it appeared that the Japanese were either
unable or umwilling to purge individuals clearly falling within the soope
of the purge directive.
You are possibly aware that the termination of the purge activities
of General Headquarters, SCAP was announced in a press release from that
Headquarters on 22 June 19L8.
Sincerely yours,
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
2390
2893

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.92)
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS
TO : O - Mr. Ray
DATE: September
1948 SEP 22 PM 2 36
suject: Ishibashi Purge Gase
"0"
pondence concerning the Ishibashi Purge case. I do not
think there 1s any further aotion whioh we should take
at this time.
M
Attaohments
894
Vv
FE:NA:JMAllison:Jh
2593
270

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
TO
: NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: September 16, 1948
FROM : O - J. F. Ray, Jr.
suBject: Ishibashi Purge Case
The attached letter from General Eberle with enclosed copy
of Mr. Draper's letter to Mr. Kern, were received in response to
Mr. Saltzman's letter of September 3 to General Eberle which was
cleared with your office.
Apart from the substence of this correspondence, I am troubled
by the apparent lack of coordination between State and Army in
handling this correspondence. When Mr. Kern's letter was first
received, I distinctly recall telephoning several brenches of
Civil Affairs Division, as well as Mr. Draper's office, to enquire
whether parallel enquiry had gone from Mr. Kern to the Army, and
was informed that no such communication had been received. You
will recall thet a delay occurred in the clearance of the draft
reply prepared for Mr. Saltzman's signature. I did not check again
with the Army before the final draft of Mr. Saltzman's letter was
signed and uispatched. This should apparently have been done.
Will you please advise what further action, if any, is con-
sidered by your office to be necessary or desirable?
Copies of pertinent previous correspondence are attached.
Will you kindly return them when they have served your purpose.
Attachments
O:JFRay,Jr:mwc
2370
973

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CONFIDENTIAL
Office of the U.S.Political Adviser
for Japan
No. 600
vpkyp 1948.
2×1P
CDAIONO
NOR:HEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Subject: Visit of Former Prime Minister CHiiß Chun.
1=94
894.00/9-1348
ACTION
The Honorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
COPIES
Washington.
TO:
ENK
Sir:
133.
C1.1
I have the honor to refer to my lespatch No. 571 dated August 31,
1948 on the subject of the visit of former Prime Minister General CHANG
DC/R
Chun to Japan, and to enclose a copy of a memorandum of conversation
dated September 9, 1948. This conversation was held between General
Chang Chun and myself at the residence of the Chief of the Chinese Mission
in Japan.
The memorandum of conversation records the high lights of a wide
range of subjects which were covered, including General Chang's impressions
regarding the political situation in Japan, his concern vith the growth of
Communism, a general discussion on the subject of an early Peace Conference,
and General Chang's general summation of his reactions regarding American
aims and policies in the occupation of Janan. On the latter subject General
Chang felt that it is extremely urgent and necessary that the United States
Government, by public announcement, clarify its policy, not only in Japan
but in the Far East as a whole, and that considerable clarification is
needed in order to still criticism and to explain United States intentions
in its implementation of directives of the Far Eastern Comaission and of the
United States.
General Chang, Mrs. Chang ani Kr. SiO Yu-lin departed Tokyo via North-
west Airlines plane for Shanghai on Jeptember 13, 1948.
CS/V
Respectfully yours,
DEPARTHENT
SEP
RECEIVED
7
3
W. J. Sebald
18
A
8
STA
Enclosure:
0.
t
ini
Nemorandum of conversation entitled
104.00
"The Occupation of Japan" dated
September 9, 1948.
D111949
Original and hectograph to the Department
FILED
Copy to American Embassy, Nanking.
030/800
3
WJSebald:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 600 dated September 13,
1948 from the Office of the U.S.Political Adviser
for Japan entitled "Visit of Former Prime Minister
CHANG Chun".
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
CONFIDENTIAL
September 9, 1948.
Subject:
The Occupation of Japan
Participants:
General CHANG Chun, ex-Premier of China.
Dr. WU Wen-tsao, Chinese Mission in Japan.
Kr. W. J. Sebald
I called at the residence of General SHANG Chen, Chief of the Chinese
Mission, at his invitation for the purpose of continuing my recent dis-
cussion with General CHANG Chun conceming his observations and reactions
to the Japanese situation. Dr. WU (who acted as interpreter) was approx-
imately thirty minutes late and during this interval General Chang and .I
conversed in Japanese. During this part of the conversation, General Chang
expressed his great appreciation to me for the arrangements which had been
made for him to interview many officers of General Headquarters, Japanese
officials and others, and for the special airplane which had been placed
at his disposal for his trip to Hiroshima and Osaka. He said that the
local military commanders at Hiroshima, Osaka, Kobe and Kyoto had been
extremely kind in affording all desired facilities to him and in making
possible numerous interviews with local Occupation and Japanese officials.
General Chan: said that he has obtained considerable detailed know-
ledge regarding the Occupation and while he does not consider everything
to be perfect, on balance he feels that the Occupation is an unparalleled
success.
In summing up his impressions regarding the political situation in
Japan General Chan said that he is satisfied with the great advances
which have been made in the formation of political parties along democratic
lines and which are led by fairly good leaders. On the other hand, however,
he is somewhat disturbed by the present political unrest which, in his
opinion, is largely ccasioned by pressure from the extreme right and left
upon the middle-of-the-road government presently in power. He wondered
whether it would not be possible for SCAP to give greater support to middle-
of-the-road parties by selecting competent leaders and by encouraging the
Japanese people to support these leaders. I replied that in my opinion
SCAP would be ill-advised to inject himself into Japanese internal politics,
as to do so would, in effect, amount to a negation of a proper democratic.
process. In other words, I added, if General liacArthur were to show favor to
certain individuals he would merely be substituting himself for the former
cliques which in the past ruled and controlled Japanese politics. I said that
in my opinion it is wiser to allow the Japanese to select their own leaders
and that in time, as experience is gained, appropriate leaders would come to
the fore.
CONFIDENTIAL
In reply

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 600
September 13,1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
In reply to a question which I asked concerning General Chang's im-
pressions regarding the communist situation in Japan, he stated that in
his opinion the Japanese are fortunate in not having Chinese communists
as a political factor in Japan. He referred to the influence of Chinese
communists in other Asiatic countries, particularly in southeast Asia,
and said that at least the Japanese communists are not directly influenced
or controlled by their Chinese counterparts. On the other hand, he is
certain that the Japanese communists are largely directed and influenced
by Soviet communists centered at Vladivostok---he said that all communists
in the Far East look to Vladivostok as the "center of the Far East".
General Chang voiced the opinion that SCAP should exercise greater
pressure against the communist party in Japan and should make a determined
effort to arouse enthusiastic support to an anti-communist campaign in
Japan. (I pointed out that under FEC directives this might be extremely
difficult in view of the underlying spirit of these directives that all
Allied countries should have a part in formulating policies pertaining to
the Occupation of Japan.)
In summing up the Occupation, General Chang said that there has been
so much misinformation and slanted comment concerning American aims and
policies in Japan that it is almost impossible to know exactly what these
aims and policies are. He therefore felt it extremely urgent and necessary
that the United States Government, by public announcement, clarify its
policy not only in Japan but in the Far East as a whole. He said that if
the aim of the United States in the occupation of Japan is to build up a
bastion of defense against Communism then he would say that no one has a
right to criticize what is being done. On the other hand if United States
policies are solely to carry out announced directives of the FEC and of the
United States, as well as the Potsdam Declaration and the Terms of Surrender,
considerable clarification is needed in order to still criticism and to ex-
plain United States intentions.
General Chang asked what I thought of the possibility of an early Peace
Conference in order to settle the Japanese situation. I told General Chang
that I am not well informed on this subject and of course could only give my
personal opinion, but that it would appear to me that several outstanding
problems of major importance, such as reparations and level of industry,
ought to be settled before a Peace Conference is called. I said that it ap
pears to me as unrealistic to think that the mere signin of a Peace Treaty
would automatically cure all outstanding problems, as obviously, unless a
solution is found for the major difficulties which are still outstanding, it
would be hopeless to go into a Peace Conference with the pious wish that
such problems could more readily be solved at the peace table. General Chang
thought for a moment and said that he entirely agrees vith my personal
opinion and felt that his Government should not make the mistake of urging
the convocation of an imnediate Peace Conference. He said that in any event
he feels that the Japanese need more time in order to get their house in order
and properly to digest many of the reforas which, in some cases, have been
forced upon them against their wishes.
CONFIDENTIAL
In conclusion

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 600
September 13, 1948
-3-
 NFIDENTIAL
In conclusion General Chang said that he feels certain that he is
now sufficiently well informed regarding the Japanese situation to clarify
many doubts concerning the Occupation and United States policy in Japan
among not only high officials of the Chinese Government, but also among
the Chinese people at large.
W. J. Sebald
CONFIDENTIAL
f

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
Dc/R
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISE
FOR JAPAN
No. 620
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo. Sentembers
1948.
(For Department use only)
OF STATE
Subject: Diet Dissolution in 1948 Remote - Reasons for
KATAYAMA's Advocacy of Diet Dissolution.
CJ
.The Honorable
894.00/9-2048
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
3
S
Sir:
Y
52
Iheve the honor to refer to this Mission's des-
patch No. 431 of July 10, 1948, summarizing comments
of Jepenese leaders on the political situation at that
time and to enclose five copies eech of two editorials
from the Nippon Times entitled "Mr. Katayame's
Position", of September 8, 1948, end "Diet Dissolution
and the Socielists" of September 17, 1948. At the time
of preparation of the July 10 despatch it seemed clear
that both Mr. KATAYAMA Tetsu, President of the Social
Democratic Perty, &nd Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, Prime
CS
Minister end President of the Democratic Party, expected
that during the coming fall the present cabinet would
/M
probably either be forced to resign and a new one be
formed or the National Diet would have to be dissolved.
A re-assessment of the political situation at this
time, based on conversations between Jepanese leaders
EED
and an officer of this Mission, makes it seem unlikely
FILED
thet either contingency will occur. There eppears to be
222
a belief which is gaining ground that there is little
-7
likelihood of dissolution of the Diet this year and thet
be February 1949. There is even speculation in
political circles that the Ashide Cabinet will heve the
longest life of eny cebinet since the surrender.
Changed Attitude of this lieadquarters toward
Ashida Cabinet
One contributing cause is believed to be the fact
that Japenese Government officiels now heve the
impression thet the generel attitude of this Headquerters
towerd the Ashide Cabinet has changed for the better.
For example Mr. MIKI Takeo, President of the People's
Cooperative Party and Lir. MATSUkOTo Takizo, Chairman of
the Folicy Committee of the Feople's Cooperative Party
and former Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs in the
ac
CONFIDENTIAL
K&tayama
Dist.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 620,
September 20, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
Katayama Cabinet, pointed out that, at the time of the
fall of the Ketayama Cabinet, the G-2 Section and the
Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters were
in favor of having Mr. YOSHIDA Shigeru, President of the
Democratic Liberal Party, become Prime Minister, but that
members of these Sections are now prone to think that the
Ashids Cabinet should remain in office.
Reasons for Mr. Katayama's Advocating
Diet Dissolution
Mr. Kateyama has been the most out-spoken of any of
the government party heads in favor of dissolution of the
Diet. At first, this position appeared strange since
Mr. Ketayama tends toward the right wing faction of the
Social Democratic Party wnich has indicated a desire to
avoid Diet dissolution as long as possible, while the left
wing faction hes been vociferous in its advocacy of Diet
dissolution. Mr. Miki recently told an officer of this
Mission that, in his opinion, Mr. Katayama advocated Diet
dissolution as & means of holding the Socialist Party's
two factions together. This same analysis of Mr.
Katayame's position is well set forth in the enclosed
editorial from the Nippon Times for September 8, 1948.
It has been learned on reliable authority that Mr.
Katsyama himself read this Nippon Times editorial and
indicated that it was such an accurate anelysis of his
thinking thet he would heve liked to have seen it printed
in all Jepenese newspepers. The editorial points out
that Mr. Katayama believes the early dissolution of the
Diet is the surest means of preserving the present
coalition, which in his opinion is the only practical
government under existing circumstances. The editorial
further states that Mr. Kateyeme's reasoning involves a
desire to prevent a quarrel from breaking up the cosli-
tion between the Democratic Party end the Social
Democratic Perty, e querrel which might be brought on
by the dissatisfaction of the left wing faction of the
latter perty. According to the editorial, Mr. Ketayema
believes thet if the Diet is dissolved before e break-up
occurs, cooperation between the two parties will not be
prevented in the future. In addition, the editorial
declares that Mr. Katayama probably calculates, as do
most other political experts, that e general election
would result in little change in the House of Representa-
tives end therefore that any new coalition formed would
be very similer to the one now in power.
Prime Minister Ashida in July appeered resigned to
the eventual dissolution of the Diet this coming fall,
but, since the July 22 letter of General MacARTHUR
recommending revision of the Netional Public Service Lew,
and developments therefrom, Mr. Ashida has shown
increesing confidence that Diet dissolution is not
imminent. His position, which this Headguarters is
believed to share, is that the expense, uncertainty, and
distraction of an election campaign should under present
circumstances be avoided if possible.
CONFIDENTIAL
"Approval

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 620,
September 20, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
"Approval in Principle" - Resounding Victory
for Right Wing Socialists
Mr. Miki informed an officer of this Mission that
even the left wing faction of the Social Democratic
Party has become less anxious for immediate Diet
dissolution, but to "seve face" all around, the Social
Democratic Party hes "approved in principle" Mr.
Katayama's stand on an early Diet dissolution. In our
opinion this "approval in principle" was a compromise
between the two factions of the party which came about
when the left wing faction agreed to withdraw its
original demend for a wholesale withdrawal of the Social
Democratic members of the Cebinet as a preliminary to
Diet dissolution.
In the Nippon Times editorial of September 17,
several factors are cited as contributing to the sudden
emergence of the right wing faction in the Social
Democratic Perty:
(1) Acquittal of Mr. NISHIO Suehiro
by the Tokyo District Court (this Mission's
Airgram 188 of September 9, 1948).
(2) Expulsion of the extreme left
wing group.
(3) weakening of the left wing faction
by prospects of increased rice ration and
of introduction of foreign capital (coupled
with this is the proposed revision of the
National Public Service Law which would
serve to prevent a concerted labor offensive
against the government).
(4) Disadvantege to the left wing, in
discussion of withdrawal from the Cabinet, in
having in the Cabinet two members who desire
to retein their positions.
It is also of interest that, in this editoriel, the
Socialist agreement to concentrete on policy matters
rether then seek an eerly Diet dissolution is noted as
leaving & wide loop-hole through which the party may
still ask for Diet dissolution et any time. Both right
wing and left wing leaders agreed to withhold final
decision until they have ascerteined how far Prime
Minister Ashida is prepared to go in accepting Social
Democratic policies.
Results of Meeting of Heeds of Government
Parties
On September 9, 1948, ir. Miki volunteered the
information that at & meeting of the three government
party leaders on September 14, e decision similar to
thet of the Social Democratic Ferty's "approval in
principle" of Diet dissolution might be reached In
order to "save face" for Mr. Kateyama, but that no
CONFIDENTIAL
determination

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 620,
September 20, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 4 -
determination would be made as to the time of dissolution.
According to & press statement made by Mr. Miki following
the meeting of September l4, the question of Diet
dissolution was only considered informally after the three
leaders had agreed on October 1, 1948 as a possible date
for the opening of the extraordinary session of the Diet
for a period of thirty days (from a practical point of
view, Jepanese leaders expect the session to begin about
October 10 and last longer then thirty days). Apparently,
the question of Diet dissolution has become less urgent,
hence, the heads of the three government parties have
felt it unnecessary to reach any formal decision, even a
"face-seving" one.
Conclusion
As we have previously pointed out (this Mission's
despatch No. 514 of August 31, 1948), the Ashida Cabinet
gained & new lease on life as a result of General
MacArthur's July 22 letter recommending revision of the
National Public Service Law. The victory of the right
wing of the Social Democratic Party has further assured
the Cabinet a much needed breathing spell. We find this
outcome desirable in that it is herdly likely that a
dissolution of the Diet and & generel election at this
time would bring about en improvement in the general
situetion which might, in turn, compensate for the
resultant politicel vecuum, uncertainty, and expense
involved. In our opinion, the whole ouestion of Diet
dissolution has been reised by politicians and is not
the result of pressure of popular opinion.
Respectfully yours,
L.rBenace.
.. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Five copies of editorial from
Nippon Times of 9/8/48, entitled
"Mir. Katayeme's Fosition".
2.
Five copies of editorial from
Nippon Times of 9/17/48, entitled
"Diet Dissolution end the
Socialists."
Ori. inal end hecto raph to the Depertment.
803
HLewrenceJr/eg
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 620
dated Sept. 20, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject, "Diet
Dissolution in l948 Remote - Reasons for
Katayama's Advocacy of Diet Dissolution.
NIPPON TMES: Sept 8, 1948
WHL
His reasoning probably runs
Mr. Katayama's
about as follows. If the pre-
Position
sent Coalition is continued
without change, the increasing
dissatisfaction of the left-wing
Why Mr. Tetsu Katayama,
Socialists will make it increas-
chairman of the Socialist
ingly difficult for the Socialist
party, persists in advocating
and the Democratic partners
the early dissolution of the
in the Coalition to work toge-
Diet is not as much an enigma
ther. Consequently a quarrel
as it might at first seem. He
is likely to ensue sooner or
is advocating the dissolution of
later, which will cause the
the Diet because he believes
Coalition to break up. If the
that the present Government
Socialists and the Democrats
should be perpetuated—para-
thus part in disagreement and
doxical as that may sound.
anger, future cooperation be-
Of course, if he were a left-
tween them will be precluded,
wing Socialist, his motives in
dooming them both to im-
advocating an early dissolu-
potence. The effect would be
tion of the Diet would be
to enable the conservative
simple enougH to fathom. The
Democratic-Liberals to rise to
left-wingers do not care to
power, a situation to be de-
continue in the present Coali-
plored by all true progressives.
tion, and they favor a disso-
But if the Diet is dissolved
lution of the Diet so that they
before an actual quarrel
will be free to go into the
occurs between the Socialists
ensuing election as an Oppo-
and the Democrats, there will
sition party.
be nothing to prevent them
But Mr. Katayama is not a
from cooperating again in the
left-winger. Although he has
future. Moreover Mr. Kata-
tried to keep free from. being
yama probably figures, as do
identified with any particular
most other practical political
faction the better to play the
experts, that a general election
role of a "neutral" peace-
at this time would result in
maker and unifier within the
the return of a House of Re-
Socialist party, it is known
presentatives possessing sub-
that his general aims closely
stantially the same composition
match those of the right-wing
us the present one. Even the
element.
lefi-wing Socialists would then
Now, the right-wing Social-
have to conclude that a Coali-
ists, in order to avoid a suici- tion like the present one is
dal splitting up of the party, inevitable and they would be
may pay reluctant lip service constrained to bow graciously
to the idea of the early dis- —at least more graciously than
solution of the Diet so uncom- iow—to the inevitable. Thus,
promisingly demanded by, not only would a Coalition
their left-wing brethren. But practically identical with the
it is obvious that the right-:tscnt one result from an
wingers desire to continue to cr'y election, but this Coali-
cooperate with the Democrats tion would have the added
and the People's Cooperatives surcngth of a renewed unity
in the present Coalition. And
inasmuch as Mr. Katayama is
enjoined by a fresh mandate
known to lean toward the
from the clectorate.
right-wing philosophy, it may
Prime Minister Ashida does
at first seem inexplicable as
not agree. He would like to
to why he should persistently
avoid the waste and expense
call for an early Diet dissolu-
and uncertainty and distrac-
tion like any left-winger.
tion of an election campaign,
The explanation, though a
and so he would like to avoid
little complex, is, however,
dissolving the Diet as much
clear enough. Mr. Katayama is
as possible. By advocat-
not insincerely taking this stand
ing the dissolution of the
merely to appease the left-
Diet like any left-wing So-
wingers for the sake of party
cialist or Democratic-Libe-
unity. He probably sincerely
ral, Mr. Katayama may appear
believes that an early dissolu-
at first glance to have aligned
tion is the surest way to pre-
himself with the opponents of
serve the present Coalition the present Government. But
which he believes is the only in his own subtle way, Mr.
practicable Government under Katayama is undoubtedly
existing conditions.
working toward much the
same ultimate objective of per-
petuating a middle-of-the-road
Coalition as Dr. Ashida him-
self.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
TIDENTTAL
NIPPON TIMES: Sept 8, 1948
WHL
His reasoning probably runt
Mr. Katayama's
about as follows. If the pre
Position
sent Coalition is comtmued
without change, the ingreasing
dissatisfaction of the left-wing
Why Mr. Tetau Katayama,
Socialists will make it imcreas-
chairman of the Socielist
ingly difficult for the Socialist
party, persists in advocatingi and the Democratic partners
the early dissolution of the, in the Coalition to work toge-
Diet is not as much an enigma ther. Consequently. a quarrel
as it might at first seem. He is likely to ensue sooner or
is advocating the dissolution of later, which will cause. the
the Diet because he believes Coalition to break up. If the
that the present Government Socialists and the Democrats
should be perpetuated—para- thus part in disagreement and
doxical as that may sound.
anger, future cooperation be-
Of course, if he were a. left- tween them will be precluded,
wing Socialist, his motives in dooming them both to im-
advocating an early dissolu- potence. The effect would be
tion of the Diet would be to enable the conservative
simple enough to fathom. The Democratic-Liberals to tise to
left-wingers do not care to power, a situation to be de-
continue in the present Coali- plored by all true progressives.
tion, and they favor a disso-
But if the Diet is dissolved
lution of the Diet so that they
before an actual quarrel
will be free to go into the
occurs between the Socialists
ensuing election as an Oppo-
and the Democrats, there will
sition party.
be nothing to prevent them
But Mr. Katayama is not a from cooperating again in the
left-winger. Although he has future. Moreover Mr. Kata-
tried to keep free from being, yama probably figures, as do
identified with any particular
most other practical political
faction the better to play the
experts, that a general election
role of a "neutral" peace-
at this time would result in
maker and unifier within the
the return of a House of Re-
Socialist party, it is known
presentatives possessing sub-
that his general aims closely
stantially the same composition
match those of the right-wing, as the present one. Even the
element.
left-wing Socialists would then
Now, the right-wing Social-
have to conclude that a Coali-
ists, in order to avoid a suici-
tion like the present one is
dal splitting up of the party,
inevitable and they would be
may pay reluctant lip service
constrained to bow graciously
to the idea of the early dis-
—at least more graciously than
solution of the Diet so uncom-
now—to the inevitable. Thus,
promisingly demanded by
not 'only would a Coalition
their left-wing brethren. But
practically identical with the
it is obvious that the right-
prescnt one result from an
wingers desire to continue to
curly election, but this Coali-
cooperate with the Demecrats
iion would have the added
and the People's Cooperatives
trength of a renewed unity
in the present Coalition. And
inasmuch as Mr. Katayama is
enjoined by a fresh mandate
known to lean toward the
from the electorate.
right-wing philosophy, it may
Prime Minister Ashida does
at first seem inexplicable as
not agree. He would like to
to why he-should persistently
avoid the waste and expense
call for an early Diet dissolu-
and uncertainty and distrac-
tion like any left-winger.
tion of an election campaign,
The explanation, though a
and so he would like to avoid
little complex, is, however.
dissolving the Diet as much
clear enough. Mr. Katayama is
as possible. By advocat-
not insincerely taking this stand.
ing the dissolution of the
merely to appease the left-
Diet like any left-wing So-
wingers for the sake of party
cialist or Democratic-Libe-
unity. He probably sincerely
ral, Mr. Katayama may appear
believes that an early dissolu-
at first glance to have aligned
tion is the surest way to pre-
himself with the opponents of
serve the present Coalition
the present Government. But
which he believes is the only
in his own subtle way, Mr.
practicable Government under
Katayama is undoubtedly
existing conditions.
working toward much the
same ultimate objective of per-
petuating a middle-of-the-road
Coalition as Dr. Ashida him-
self.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES: Sept 8, 1948.
WHL
His reasoning probably runs
Mr. Katayama's
about as follows. If the pre-
Position-
sent Coalition ' is continued
without change, the increasing
dissatisfaction of the left-wing
Why Mn. Tetsu Katayama,
Socialists will make it increas-
chairman of the Socialist
ingly difficult for the Socialist
party, persists in advocating
and the Democratic partners
the early dissolution of the
in the'Coalition to work toge-
Diet is not as much an enigma.
ther. Consequently a quarrel
as it might at first seem. He
is likely to ensue sooner or
is advocating the dissolution of
later, which will cause the
the Diet because he believes
Coalition to break up. If the
that the present Government
Socialists and the Democrats
should be perpetuated—para-
thus part in disagreement and
doxical as that may sound.
anger, future cooperation be-
Of course, if he were a left-'
tween them will be precluded,
wing Socialist, his motives in
dooming them both to 'im-
advocating an early dissolu-
potence. The effect would be
tion of the Diet would be
to enable the conservative
simple enough to fathom. The
Democratic-Liberals to rise to
left-wingers do not care to
power, a situation to be de-
continue in the present Coali-
plored by all true progressives.
tion, and they favor a disso-
But if ihe Diet is dissolved
lution of the Diet so that they
before an actual quarrel
will be free to go into the
occurs between the Socialists
ensuing election as an Oppo-
and the Democrats, there will
sition party.
be nothing to prevent them
But Mr. Katayama is not a
from cooperating again in the
left-winger. Although he has
future. Moreover Mr. Kata-
tried to keep free from being
yama probably figures, as do
identified with any particular
most other practical political
faction the better to play the
experts, that a general election
role of a "neutral" peace-
at this time would result in
maker and unifier within the
the return of a House of Re-
Socialist'party, it is known
presentatives possessing sub-
that his general aims closely
stantially the same composition
match those of the right-wing
as the present one. Even the
element.
left-wing Socialists would then
Now, the right-wing Social-
have to conclude that a Coali-
ists, in order to avoid a suici-
tion like the present one is
dal splitting up of the party,
inevitable and they would be
may pay relucțant lip service
constrained to bow graciously
to the idea of the early dis-
—at least more graciously than
solution of the Diet so uncom-
now—to the inevitable. Thus,
promisingly demanded by
not only would a Coalition
their left-wing brethren. But
practically identical with the
it is obvious that the right-
1rescnt one result from an
wingers desire to continue to
criy election, but this. Coali-
cooperate with the Democrats
tion would have the added
and the People's Cooperatives
strength of a renewed unity
in the present Coalition. And
inasmuch as Mr. Katayama is
enjoined by a fresh mandate
known to lean toward the
from the electorate.
right-wing philosophy, it may
Prime Minister Ashida does
at first seem inexplicable as
not agree. He would like to
to why he should persistently
avoid、the waste and expense
call for an early Diet dissolu-
and uncertainty and distrac-
tion like any le.t-winger.
tion of an election campaign,
The explanation, though a
and so he would like to avoid
little complex, is, however,
dissolving the Diet as much
clear enough. Mr. Katayama is
as possible. By advocat-
not insincerely taking this stand
ing the dissolution of the
merely to appease the left-
Diet like any left-wing So-
wingers for the sake',of party
cialist or Democratic-Libe-
unity. He probably sincerely
ral, Mr. Katayama may appear
believes that an early dissolu-
at first glance to have aligned
tion is the surest way to pre-
himself with the opponents of
serve the present Coalition
the present Government. But
which he believes is the only
in his own subtle way, Mr.
practicable Government under
Katayama is undoubtedly
existing conditions.
working toward much the
same ultimate objective of per-
petuating a middle-of-the-road
Coalition as Dr. Ashida him-

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES: Sept 8, 1948
WHL
Mr. Katayama's
• His reasoning probably runs
about as follows. If the pre-
Position
sent Coalition is continued.
without change, the increasing
.Why Mr. Tetsu Katayama,
dissatisfaction of the left-wing
chairman of the Socialist
Socialists will make it increas-
ingly difficult for the Socialist.
party, persists in advocating
and the Democratic partners
the early dissolution of the
in the Coalition to work,toge-
Diet is not as much an enigma.
ther. Consequently a quarrel
as it might at first seem. He
is likely to ensue sooner or
is advocating the dissolution of
later, which will cause the
the Diet because he belíeves
Coalition to break up. If the
that the present Government
should be perpetuated—para-
Socialists and the Democrats
doxical as that may sound.
thus part in disagreement and
Of course, if he were a left-
anger, future cooperation be-
tween them will be precluded,
wing Socialist, his motives in
dooming them both to im-
advocating an early dissolu-
potence. The effect would be
tion of the Diet would be
to enable the conservative
simple enough to fathom. The
Democratic-Liberals to rise to
left-wingers do not care to
continue in the present Coali-
power, a situation to be de-
plored by all true progressives.
tion, and they favor a disso-.
lution of the Diet so that they
But if the Diet is dissolved
will be free to go into the
before an actual quarrel
ensuing election as an Oppo-
occurs between the Socialists
sition party.
and the Democrats, there will
 But Mr. Katayama is not a
be nothing to prevent them
left-winger. Although he has
from cooperating again in the
tried to keep free from being
future. Moreover Mr. Kata-
yama probably figures, as do
identified with any particular
faction the better to play the
most other practical political
role of a "neutral" peace-
experts, that a general election
at this time would result in
maker and unifier within the
the return of a House of Re-
Socialist party, "it is known
thàt his general aims closely
presentatives possessing sub-
match those of the right-wing
stantially the same composition
as the present one. Even the
element.
left-wing Socialists would then
Now, the right-wing Social-
have to conclude that a Coali-
ists, in order to avoid a suici-
tion like the present one is
dal splitting up of the party,
inevitable and they would be
may pay reluctant lip service
constrained to bow graciously
to the idea of the early dis-
at least more graciously than
solution of the Diet so uncom-
now—to the inevitable. Thus,
promisingly demanded by
noi only would a Coalition
their left-wing brethren. But
practically identical with the
it is obvious that the right-
Present one result from an
wingers desire to continue to
(rly clection, but this Coali-
cooperate with the Democrats
ton would have the added
and the People's Cooperatives
rtngth of a renewed unity
in the present Coalition. And
inasmuch as Mr. Katayama is
enjoined by a fresh mandate
known to lean toward the
from the. electorate.
right-wing philosophy, it may
Prime Minister Ashida does
at first seem inexplicable as
not agree. He would like to
to why he should persistently
avoid the waste and expense
call for an early Diet dissolu-
and uncertainty and distrac-
tion like any left-winger.
tion of an election campaign,
The explanation, though a
and so he would like to avoid
Jittle complex, is, however.
dissolving the Diet as much
clear enough. Mr. Katayama is
as possible. By advocat-
not insincerely taking this stand
ing the dissolution of the
merely to appease the left-
Diet like any left-wing So-
wingers for the sake of party
cialist or Democratic-Libe-
unity. He probably sincerely
ral, Mr. Katayama may appear
believes that an early dissolu-
at first glance to have aligned
tion is the surest way to pre-
himself. with the opponents of
serve the present Coalition
the present Government. But
which he believes is the only
in his own subtle way, Mr.
practicable Government under
Katayama is ,undoubtedly
existing conditions.
working toward much the
same ultimate objective of per-
petuating a middle-of-the-road
Coalition as Dr. Ashida him-
self.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TMES: Sept 8. 1948
WHL
Mr.'Katayama's
His reasoning probably runs
about as follows. If the pre-
Position
sent Coalition is continued
without change, the increasing
Why Mr. Tetsu Katayama,
dissatisfaction of the left-wing
Socialists will make it increas-
chairman of the Socialist
ingly difficult for the Soeialist
party, persists in advocating
and the Democratic partners
the early dissolution of the
in the Coalition to work toge-
Diet is not as much an enigma
ther. Consequèntly a quarrel
as it might at first seem. He
is likely to ensue sooner or
is advocating the dissolution of
later, which will cause the
the Diet because he believes
Coalition to break up. If the
that the present Government
Socialists and the Democrats
should be perpetuated—para-
thus part in disagreement and
doxical as that may sound.
anger, future cooperation be-
Of course, if he were a left-
tween them will be precluded,
wing Socialist, his motives in
dooming them both to im-
advocating an early dissolu-
potence. The effect would be
tion of the Diet would be
to enable the conservative
simple enough to fathom. The
Democratic-Liberals to rise to
left-wingers do not care to
power, a situation to, be de-
continue in the present Coali-
plored by all true progressives.
tion, and they favor a disso~
lution of the Diet so that they
But if the Diet is dissolved
before an actual quarrel
will be free to go into the
ensuing election as an Oppo-
occurs between the Socialists
sition party.
and the Democrats, there will
be nothing to prevent them
But Mr. Katayama is not a
from cooperating again in the
left-winger. Although he has
future. Moreover Mr. Kata-
tried to keep free from being
yama probably figures, as do
identified with any particular
most other practical political
faction the better to play the
experts, that a general election
role' of a "neutral" peace-
at this time would result in
maker and unifier within the
the return of a House of Re-
Socialist party, it is known
presentatives possessing sub-
that his general aims closely
stantially the same composition
match those of the right-wing
as the present one. Even the
element.
left-wing Socialists would then
Now, the right-wing Social-
have to conclude that a Coali-
ists, in order to avoid a suici-
tion like the present one is
dal splitting up of the party,
inevitable and they would be
may pay reluctant lip service
constrained to bow graciously
to the idea of the early dis-
—at least more graciously than
solution of the Diet so uncom-
now-to the inevitable. Thus,
promisingly demanded by
not only would a Coalition
their left-wing brethren. But
practically identical with the
it is obvious that the right-
present one result from an
wingers desire to continue to
carly clection, but this Coali-
cooperate with the Democrats
1on would have the added
and the People's Cooperatives
rength of a renewed unity
in the present Coalition. And
inasmuch as Mr. Katayama is
enjoined by a fresh mandate
known to lean toward the
from the electorate.
right-wing philosophy, it may
Prime Minister Ashida does
at first seem inexplicable as
not agree. He would like to
to why he should persistently
avoid the waste and expense
call for an early Diet dissolu-
and uncertainty and distrac-
tion like any left-winger.
tion of an election campaign.
The explanation, though a
and so he would like to avoid
little complex, is, however,
dissolving the Diet as much
clear enough. Mr. Katayama is
as possible. By advocat-
not insincerely taking this stand
ing the dissolution of the
merely to appease the left-
Diet like any left-wing So-
wingers for the sake of party
cialist or Democratic-Libe-
unity. He probably sincerely
ral, Mr. Katayama may appear
believes that an early dissolu-
tion is the surest way to pre-
at first glance to have aligned
himself with the opponents of
serve the present Coalition
the present Government. But
which he believes is the only
practicable Government under
in his own subtle way, Mr.
Katayama is undoubtedly
existing conditions.
working toward much the
same ultimate objective of per-
petuating a middle-of-the-road

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 620 dated
Sept. 20, 1948 from the Office of the
United States Politioal Adviser for Japan
Tokyo, on the subject, "Diet Dissolution
in 1948 Remote - Reasons for Katayama's
Advocacy of Diet Dissolution."
NIPPON TIMES:
Sept 17, 1948
WHL
The extent of the right- Law which would serve to
Diet Dissolution and
wing victory on this question hold down a concerted labor
the Socialists
can be seen by the statements offensive against the Gevern
It is now generally believed
cialist right-wingers that the
Lastly, the left-wingers
that the much-rumored' dis-
ict dissolution would not
found themselves at a disad-
solution of the Diet will no!
1oke place until next year.
vantage because of the pres-
take place this year. The
Chief Cabinet Secretary Gizo
ists in the Cabinet. It is
politically informed are spe-
Tomabechi also declared that
ence of two left-wing Social-
culating that it may be next
the chances of continued So-
no secret that these Cabinet
spring before the Diet disso-
cialist-Deniocratic collabora-
Ministers are not overly an-
lution finally takes place. This
tion had improved consider-
xious to lea've their Cabinet
point of view has taken firm
ably.
Several factorsmust be
posts and. this fact disrupted
root during the past week as
the unity of the left wing.
a result of the numerous con-
pointed out as contributing to
While the right wing may
ferences held by the leaders
the sudden reemergence of
be said to have gained an im-
of the Social Democratic Party.
the rignt wing as the leading
portant victory in gaining a
faction in the Socialist Party.
As an important member of
First, the acquittal of former
respite for the Diet dissolu-
the coalition Cabinet, the So-
Deputy Prime Minister Sue-
tion plan, the future relation-
cialists are in a position to
hiro Nishio by the Tokyo Dis-
ship between the right and
force the resignation of the
trict Court had a tonic effect
the left-wing factions and be-
Cabinet or to call for a Diet
on the slumping right-wing
tween the Socialist Party and
dissolution. The rumors of
faction. The court decision
the Cabinet is far from clari-
an impending Diet dissolution
on Mr. Nishio gave rise to the
fied. The Socialist agreement
thus gained impetus last
rumors of a return of the for-
that they should concentrate
month when Chairman Tetsu
mer Katayama-Nishio tie-up,
on policy matters leaves a
Katayama of the Socialist
and sirengthened the right-
wide loophole through which
Party demanded an early dis-
wing position in the party.
the party may still ask for an
solution of the Diet "in order
Secondly, the expulsion
immediate Diet dissolution at
to clarify the confused politi-
from the party of the extreme
any time. If the Cabinet
cal atmosphere."
left-wing group led by Hisao
should reject any of the So-
cialist policy proposals,the
But subsequent meetings of Kuroda
hasconsiderabiy
the Socialist Party's Central weakened the left wing rnot
Socialists may always threa-
Executive Committee and of only in numbers but also in
ten to bolt the Cabinet or to
call for the dissolution of the
the various groups within the its aggressiveness. The ex-
party have 'resulted in a re- treme left-wingers have al-
Diet.
The right-wing victory in
sounding defeat for the left- ways been most vociferous in
wing faction favoring the any struggle between the two.
staying the Diet dissolution in
withdrawal of Socialist Cabi- factions in the party.
the immediate future has, to
be sure, assured the Cabinet
net Ministers and the disso-
Thirdly, the left-wing 'posi-
of a much-needed breathing
lution of the Diet. The defeat
tion was weakened by the
spell, but it cannot be said
came in the form of a com-
prospects of increased rice
with any degree of certainty
promise whereim the left-
rations and of the introduc-
that the political situation has
wingers withdrew their de-
tion of foreign capital. With
been stabilized.
mand for the immediate with- the economic situation show-
drawal of Socialist Ministers ing signs of turning for the
in return for the right-wing better during the latter part
rupport "in principle" of the of the year, even the most
Diet dissolution proposal. Im- avid left-wingers realized
portant strings, however, that the time is not propi-
were attached to the agree- tious for withdrawing from
ment to ask for the dissolu- the Cabinet. Coupled' with
ion of the Diet, since it was this is the proposed revision
not decided when and how of the National Public Service
the legislature should be dis-
solved.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
Unlted states n
in l9s Res
Advesaey ef Dies Disselutien.
NIPPON TIMES: Sept 17. 1948
WHL
Diet Dissolution and
The extent of the right-
wing victory on this question
Law which would serve to
the Socialists
can be seen by the statements
hold down a congerted labor
made a few days ago by So-
offensive against the Govern-
It is now generally believed
cialist right-wingers that the
ment.
that the much-rumored dis-
Diet dissolution would not
Lastly, the left-wingers
solution of the Diet will not
take place until next year.
found themselves at a disad-
take place this year. The
Chief Cabinet Secretary Gizo
vantage because of the pres-
politically informed are spe-
Tomabechi also declared that
ists in the Cabinet. It is
culating that it may be next
the chances of continued So-
ence of two left-wing Social-
spring before the Diet disso-
cialist-Democratic collabora-
no secret that these Cabinet
lution finally takes place. This
tion had improved consider-
Ministers are not overly an-
point of view has taken firm
ably.
xious to leave their Cabinet
root during the past week as
Several factors must be posts and this fact disrupted
a result of the numerous con-
pointed out as contributing to
the unity of the left wing.
ferences held by the leaders
the sudden reemergence of
While the right wing may
of the Social Democratic Party.
the right wing as the leading be said to have gained an im-
faction in the Socialist Party. portant victory in gaining a
As an important member of
First, the acquittal of former respite for the Diet dissolu-
the coalition Cabinet, the So-
Deputy Prime Minister Sue- tion plan, the future relation-
cialists are in a position to
hiro Nishio by the Tokyo Dis-
ship between the right and
force'the resignation of the
Cabinet or to call for a Diet
trict Court had a tonic effect
the left-wing factions and be-
dissolution. The rumors of
on the slumping right-wing
tween the Socialist Party and
faction. The court decision
the Cabinet is far from clari-
an impending Diet dissolution
on Mr. Nishio gave rise to the
fied. The Socialist agreement
thus gainkd impetus last
rumors of a return of the for-
that they should concentrate
month when Chairman Tetsu
Katayama of the Socíalist
mer Katayama-Nishio tie-up,
on policy matters leaves a
and strengthened the right-
wide loophole through which
Party demanded an early dis-
wing position in the party.
the party may still ask for an
solution of the Diet "in order
Secondly, the expulsion
immediate Diet dissolution at
to clarify the confused politi-
from the party of the extreme
any time. If the Cabinet
cal atmosphere."
left-wing group led by Hisao
should reject any of the So-
But subsequent meetings of
Kuroda
has considerably
cialist policy proposals, the
the Socialist Party's Central
weakened the left wing not
Socialists may always threa-
Executive Committee and of
only in numbers but also in
ten to bolt the Cabinet or to
the various groups within the
its aggressiveness. The ex-
call for the dissolution of the
party have resulted in a re-
treme left-wingers have al-
Diet.
sounding defeat for the left-
ways been inost vociferous in
The right-wing victory in
wing faction favoring the
any struggle between the two
staying the Diet dissolution in
withdrawal of Socialist Cabi-
factions in the party.
the immediate future has, to
net Mnisters and the disso-
Thirdly, the left-wing posi-
be sure, assured the Cabinet
Jution of the Diet. The defeat
tion was weakened by the
of a much-needed breathing
came in the form of a com-
prospects of increased rice
spell, but, it cannot be said
promise wherein the left-
rations and of the introduc-
with any degree of certainty
wingers withdrew their de-
tion of foreign capital With
that the political situation has
mand for the immediate with-
the economic situation show-
been stabilized.
drawal of Socialist Ministers
ing signs of turning for the
in return for the right-wing
better during the latter part
support "in principle" of the of the year, even the most
Diet dissolution proposal. Im- avid left-wingers realized
portant strings, however, that the time is not propi-
were attached to the agree- tious for withdrawing from
ment to ask for the dissolu-
the Cabinet. Coupled with
tion of the Diet, since it was this is the proposed revision
not decided when and how of the National Public Service
the legislature should be dis-
solved.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES: Sept 17. 1948
WHL
Diet Dissolution and
The exient of the right-
Law which would serve to
wing victory on this question
the Socialists
can be seen by the statements
hold down à concerted labor
made à few days ago by So-
offensive against the Govern-
It is now generally believed
cialist right-wingers that the
ment.
.Lastly, the left-wingers
that the much-rumored dis-
Diet dissolution would not
found themselves at a disad-.
solution of the Diet will no!
take place until next year.
take place this year. The
Chief Cabinet Secretary Gizo
vantage because of the pres-
politically informed are spe-
Tomabechi also declared that
ists in the Cabinet. It is
culating that it may be next
the chances of continued So-
ence of two left-wing Social-
spring before the Diet disso-
cialist-Denmocratic collabora-
no secret that these Cabinet
Jution finally takes place. This
tion had improved consider-
Ministers are not overly .an-
point of view has taken firm
ably.
xious to leave their Cabinet
root during the past week as
Several factors must be
posts and this fact disrupted
a result of the numerous con-
pointed out as contributing to
the unity of the left wing.
ferences held by the leaders
the sudden reemergence of
While the right wing may
of the Social Democratic Party.
the right wing as the leading
be said to have gained an im-
As an important member of
faction in the Socialist Party.
First, the acquittal of former
portant victory in gaining a
respite for the Diet dissolu-
the coalition Cabinet, the So-
Deputy Prime Minister Sue-
tion plan, the future relation-
cialists are in a position to
hiro Nishio by the Tokyo Dis-
ship between the right and
force the resignation of the
trict Court had a tonic effect
the left-wing factions and be-
Cabinet or to call for a Diet
on the slumping right-wing
tween the Socialist Party and,
dissolution. The rumors of
faction. The court decision
the Cabinet is far from clari-
an impending Diet dissolution
on Mr. Nishio gave rise to the
fied. The Socialist agreement
thus gained impetus last
rumors of a return of the for-
that they should concentrate
month when Chairman Tetsu
mer Katayama-Nishio tie-up,
on policy matters leaves a
Katayama of the Socialist
and strengthened the right-
wide loophole through which
Party demanded an early dis-
wing position in the party.
the party may still ask for an
solution of the Diet "in order
Secondly, the expulsion
immediate Diet dissolution at
to clarify the confused politi-
from the party of the extreme
any time. If the Cabinet
cal atmosphere."
left-wing group led by Hisao
should reject any of the So-
But subsequent meetings of
Kuroda has considerabiy
cialist policy proposals, the
the Socialist Party's Central
weakened the left wing not
Socialists may always threa-
Executive Committee and of
only in numbers but also in
ten to bolt the Cabinet or to
the various groups within the
its aggressiveness. The ex-
call for the dissolution of the
party haveresulted in a re-
treme left-wingers have al-
Diet.
sounding defeat for the left-
ways been most vociferous in
The right-wing victory in
wing faction favoring the
any struggle between the two
staying the Diet dissolution in
withdrawal of Socialist Cabi-
factions in the party.
the immediate future has, to
net Ministers and the disso-
Thirdly, the left-wing posi-be sure, assured the Cabinet
Jution of the Diet. The defeat
tion was weakened by the of a much-needed breathing
came in the form of a com-
prospects of increased rice spell, but it cannot be said
promise wherein the left-
rations and of the introdue- with any degree of certainty
wingers withdrew their de-
tion of foreign capital. With that the political situation has
mand for the immediae with-
the economic situation show-
been stabilized.
drawal of Socialist Ministers
ing signs of turning for the.
in return for the right-wing
better during the latter part
support "in principle" of the
of the year, even the most
Diet dissolution proposal. Im-
avid
left-wingers realized
portant strings, however,
that the time is not propi-
were attached to the agree-
tious for withdrawing from
ment to ask for the dissolu-
the Cabinet. Coupled with
tion of the Diet, since it was
this is the proposed revision
not decided when and how
of the National Public Service
the legislature should be dis-
solved.

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.94)
DCIR
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
VISIUN OS UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NORINCAST ALIAN AFFAIRS
United States Political Adviser
 JAT
for Japan
Tokyo, September 27, 1948.
No. 633
RESTRICTED - FOR DEPARTHEENT USE ONLY
Subject: Sentences Imposed as tesult of Kobe-Osaka Riots in
April 1948.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Jashington.
94.0
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this ission's despatch
no. 512, August 12, 1948, on the subject of "Sentences Imposed
as a tesult of the hobe-saka tiots in april 1948" and to enclose
a coy of a nemorandum for the hief of staff, dated september 24,
894.00/9-2746
1948 relating to an oral representation by lir. Patrick Shaw,
Chief of the Australian ..ission, on this subject.
As indicated in the memorandum, ir. Shaw called upon instruc-
tions from his government and made a representation on behalf of
the six Koreans who were sentenced by the ilitary Commission in
Kobe. He stated that the repr sentation was made on humanitarian
grounds and that in the osinion of his covernment the sentences
are excessive and might create an imoression among Oriental
peooles of harsh bestern justice.
The enelosed memorandun was cent to the hief of Staff
without recommendation by myself and was returmed in due course
08/J
with a notation in the Ch of of Staff's haniwriting, "Ho action
required. P".
Reseectcully yours,
m
rBe.
. J. sebala
894.
FILED
Enclosure:
100/9.2748
Jopy of emorandum for
Chief of 3taff, 24 Seot 1948
Original and hectograph to Department
310.8
WJSebald:
RUSTRICTED

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch no. 633 dated
September 27, 1948 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Sentences
RESTRICTED
Imposed as Result of Kobe-Osaka Riots
in April 1948".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRMME COME AIDER FOR THL ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
24 September 1948
ORADU FO: The ief of Staff.
SUBJACT:
Sentences Jiven to Koreans Involved in Kobe Riots.
Ir. Patrick Shaw, Jhief of the Australian ission, called upon
me on September 23, 1943 for the purp se o1 making an oral represen-
tation on behalf of the Koreans tho were recently tried and sentenced
by a military conmission in Kobe on the charge of acts prejudicial to
the security of the Occupation Forces in Japan and to the objectives
of the Occupation in Jupan.
I. Shaw statei that he has noted and advised his government
that the sentences given to the six Koreans and one Japanese vary from
ten to fifteen years confinement at hard labor. He stated that he has
no interest in the case of the Japanese (sentenced to ten years). On
the ot' er hand, his overmment feuls, in view of the tpe of Korean
individuals involved and the ciremastances surrounding the acts with
wiich they were charged, that tne sentenceo are excessive in contrast
with sentences usually iven in other sourts. He noted particularly
that five of the Koreans received sentences of fifteen years at hard
labor, and one Korean twelve years.
I questioned kr. Jhaw concerin the motives of his representa-
tion and asked whether his otive is olitical. ie replied that the
representation was made on huanitarian rounds, as well as for the
reason that in the opinion of is overnnent, the sentences are
excessive and migt create an imoression aaons Oriental pec ples of
harsh Western justice. He said that e las no criticism whatsoever
concerning the fairness of the trials. He also said that he has
received several petitions frea various korean roups asking for an
amelioration of the sentences, including one from the individuals
themselves. (In this connection, I have also received similar peti-
tions addressed to me as Jhaimian, Allied Jouncil for Japan.)
I told r. shaw that in so far as I lave been able to determine,
the sentences have already been reviewed and ap proved by the Comnanding
General, Cth Anay, and that, under normal procedure, no further review
is possible. I stated, however, that I would invite the attention of
the appropriate authorities to his representation.
W. J. Sebald
(Hotation in hief of Staff's
handwritino, "Ko action required. PJ.")
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.95)
assification approved by:
SEP 29194P
0.400
894.00
To the
Offieer in Charge of the Amerisan Missien,
London.
The Asting Seeretary of State encloses for the infermat
2948
of the offieer in Charge a copy of a memerandum of soaversay
tion reesived from the Asting United States Political
Adviser for Japan dated September 3, 1948.
X
Enelosure:
Gopy of Memorandum of
Conversation, September 3, 1948
CS/V
the
nal.
gned
orgl.
SEP 28 1948P.M.
SEGRET
BC
894.00
FE
9/23/48
157

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.96)
JU
M.6
SMA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
POR JAPAN
HEMDRANDUN OF CONWERSATION
SECRET
September 3, 1948.
Participants:
Sir Alvary D. F. GASCOINE, Hoad
of the United Kingdom Liaison Mission
in Japan.
Hr. W. J. Sobald
Sir Alvary GASCOIGNE called at my office by appointment for the
purpose of conveying to me certain information regarding his recent trip
to London. During his stay at the Foreign Office, Sir Alvary said that
he met with Mr. Bevin upon two occasions and worked very alosely with
Mr. Dening and Mr. MoDermott of the Par Eastern desk.
Sir Alvary said that in general the Japanese situation, which ap-
peared to be going moothly, was relegated to a secondary position by
the Foreign Office in view of the more pressing problems of Europe and
elsewhere. On the other hand, he said that the Foreign Office view re-
garding a Japanese Peace Treaty continues unchanged and that it is hoped
that a peace conference can be convoked as soon as possible. He said that
the British view is that domestio politics in the United States would
probably prealude any possibility of a peace conference being summoned be-
fore next spring, but it is the Foreign Office's hope that a conferance can
be sumoned at that time. When I queried Sir Alvary whether the United
Kingdom would take the initiative in sumoning such a conference, he replied
that he very much doubted that the United Kingdom could do so. He felt that
the United States, being "in charge" in Japan, would necessarily have to
take the initiative. He volunteered (as his personal opinion) the informe-
tion that Hr. Den ing would head the Wited Kingdem Delegation to the Peace
Conference. He also said that he had invited Mr. Dening to visit Japan
during Ootober 1948 for several weeks, in order that he might obtain first-
hand information of the situation here.
On the subject of the economy of Japan, Sir Alvary said that the
Foreign Office is in full agreement with the United States position that a
viable oconomy is necessary for Japan. It is his opinion that the United
States can expect full support from the United Kingdom in its objectives in
SECRET
this regand.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.96)
SBOBBT
Xemorandum of Conversation
September 3, 1948
this regard. Sir Alvary also stated that it is well appreciated in the
Foreign Office that a self-sufficient Japan will be of tremendous im-
fluence upon the economy and trade of the Far East as a whole.
Sir Alvary said that he had had many oppertunities to diseuss the
Japanese mituation with leading British business men interested in
Japanese trade, and had also given an address at a lunsheon held in his
honor by the China Associstion in London. He disoovered that British
business men are surprisingly wall informed concerning Japan, and despite
some misinformation regarding difficulties encountered by British business
men in carrying on their comeroial operations in Japan, he falt that most
of them were fully alive to the problems involved. There was some com-
plaint that American business mon are in a preferred status in Japan a
feeling which Sir Alvary said he rapidly dissipated by explaining thet the
attitude of SCAP is entirely impartial in these matters.
Sir Alvary commented upon a longthy interview which he has had since
his return with General MacArthur. After relating his experiences on his
trip, Sir Alvary said the discussion turned upon the present Japanese
labor situation and specifically the proposed amendments to the Public
Service Law. Sir Alvary said that General MacArthur became rather
exeroised on this sub ject, and during the course of a longthy eaxplanation,
charged Mr. Patrick Shaw with joining forces wdth the Kremlin at the recent
Allied Council meeting. Sir Alvary stated that he attempted to explain to
General MacArthur the desire of his Govenment to see evolved in Japan,a
system of conailiation and/or arbitration for public servants - something
along the lines of the British system. He said, however, that General
MacArthur repeatedly reverted to Mr. Shaw's criticimms at the recent Allied
Counoil meeting and said that he could not understand why the Australian
Member constantly aligns himself with the Soviet Member in criticising SOAP.
Sir Alvary was obviously disturbed and somewhat discouraged by what he
termed General MacArthur's unreasonable attitude in this interview and said
he hoped that the General would not construe what he and Mr. Shaw consider
to be constructive suggestions, as unwarranted critioism.
I told Sir Alvary it ms my personal opinion that Hr. Shaw's recent
statement at the Allied C icil meeting was a well-measured and construotive
statement, and even though I did not necessarily agree with everything which
he said, I nevertheless did not feel it necessary to take issue with his
remarks. I also told Sir Alvary that I had used almost identical words in
my oral report to General MacArthur immediately after the meeting, and that
I felt a statement of the kind made by Hr. Shaw could contribute to the
Gccupation by focusing attention upon other demooratic systems. Sir Alvary
SECRET
profuss

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.93)
3
SECRAT
Mmorandum of Conversation
Septmber 3, 196s.
vas profuse in his expressions of appreciation of my attitude regarding
Mr. Shaw. The latter, in his opinion, is a sincere young diplomat, who,
however, is easily discouraged in his afforts to keep discussions in the
Allied Counoil on a constructive vein. Sir Alvary said that in his opdaiem
Mr. Shaw is "anything but a Red", in contrast wdth Mr. MoMahon Ball "whe is
definitely a pink".
Sir Alvary said that he had advised Mr. Shaw to wait a week or ten
days before calling upon General MacArthur to explain the reasons under-
lying his recent statements in the Council. This statment, according to
Sir Alvary, is entirely in accord with the British Goverimnt's attitude
on this question.
lm
W. J. Sebald
WJSebald:cs
SECRET
4t.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORBS
NOV-219486
NA
AIRORA
F
DEPARTMENT OF SPATE Off100 of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1.2-1948
DIRECTOR
391
FJ.OI :
Dated:
Oc tober 22, 1948
Date of
CON IDENTIAL
mailingg:
Oc tober 23, 1948
3
Dec'd
Nov. 1, 948 5:07 p.m
DW
.CTION FE
secretary of state,
INFO
DC,'R
.ashin,ton.
0
OLI
A-210, 0ctober 22, 1948.
JA
894.00/10-2248
AAN
At an inforul confcrence on ixtober 1.9, 1948, held in one .f
P
the sections of t  is Head juarters and atteadel by an officer of this
POS
ission, Prenier Y(shida declared trat hi: first interest is & reso-
lution of the Naticial ublic Service Lar and its hdgetary implica-
tions. lle feels tit a ceneral election rould ive lin a clear
majority of votes in the Diet, and as he believes it is necossary to
have a sirong . over'ment in Japan to so ve current. conomic and social
problens, e stated that there shou d la a gonerat election in the
immediate future.
SUBALL
山
D5 aynard: mis
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.79)
Tolk yo's A-205,
October 15, 1948
- 2 -
No candidate hoving received in the first ballot a
ma, ority of the votes cast, it was then necessary under the
ruics to hallot between the two leedine candidates in the
First ballot, Mr. Yoshide end r. Katayama. Under the
ru os the verson receivine the hicher number of votes in
che secone ballot is elected even without recciving e
na prity of the yotos cest. It will be noted that the
I I mumber ef blaat Yallots in the eecond bollot resulted
in she nlseston or . Tosl ide without bis receiving a
watoritr or he votee east.
The resutte of the senond
b    f
YOSIA S
185
AYF
1.
Bnk bollets
21.3
599
co r ra ee te, d seople's
r hve jdcd o become
 . Sorhica to e  ted to form a
ohe oe hs cm ltheuh t s
ay coooevs tioa r one o the minor
Yi
50
ere s emoectstion
t Mr. Yoshide may
  D D   r f  th
514.
itud   ble ow  Yoshida
euberir wheh to w te epos lo of
!!
er on the ccond
1107
jost  the votes, it is
ial lveislntion will

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
7zee
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NOV -2 19486
NA
AIRORAM
2113
DEPARTMÉNT OF STATE O1f1GE 01
 N 
2-1943
DRPEOTOR
393
USPOAD, 
FJ.OJ :
Dated:
Oc tober 22, 1948
Date of
CON TDENTIAL
mailing:
Oc tober 23, 1948
Nov. 1, 948 5:07 p.m
3
Lec'd
DW
.CTION FE
Secretary of state,
INFO
DC,'R
.ashinton.
0
OLI
A-210, 0ctober 22, 1943.
894.00/10-2248
JA
At an inforul conference on Oxtober 19, 1948. held in one .f
AAN
P
the sections of t is Headjuarters and attended by an officer of this
POS
ission, Prenier Y shida declared taat hi: first interest is a reso-
lution of the Naticial ublic Service Lav nd its budgetary irplica-
tions. lle feels t: t a ceneral election "ould ive hin a clear
majority of votes in the Diet, and as he believes il is necessary to
have a sirong . over'ment in Japan to so ve current pconomic and social
problems, e stated that there shou d le a generat election in the
immediate future.
SUBALD
DS aynard:mis
H
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.80)
AIHGHAM
554
From:
WOSCOW
lated:
Ootober 25,1
Disp:
October 26, 104
UNCLESIFLD
GTS
hovd:
Nov. 2,1948 11:29 am
3
the erctary of Sate
DEPARTME
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
Pon I C.
3
OFFICE OF
1100
A. 107s 1 1tea 0stoper 25, 1048.
DC.F.
CL
i e of  rn cs Ln pn" Fron LaveatiaOctober 21
C.
894.00/10-2548
5
I!e rualos sase  bri pery io Japanese political
cles, rest ti he o sgraceiui resi natlou of the
is de et'ut. s o exespti on for he enatome of the
Us ue uei poandals nd r.  icatle deals between
os ile policirvenes of a rulin uppor
.qu
t  bepe so .sh up the
cnde,tsicwere taken
o  o  so p  ad b ite crot cors from
.us radt  c to ii becuus a now
ore cas appre    ar spas  a ide delocratic
movar ens  le I p eva r eeuler. iren com tting its anti
o atar e me.  re cy f cm the peeple. The soandal
e tou D cso a y ie cirrerent roa all
or cadi, on i, the rae hat ro individ nl groups of
tny e le wore lovelre in it, but tn ruling cirolos
1 Jo  a 1
se e ore the uger scacdal has
erlceled s wholo de th o the politios and roral declino
    ac aca eposed the si-peplar
ei   tu e  bas o or de arecy which.
sr deolecdrten s Bnd i peing built
ON
etsenltSh ve Deno" comany
ex: ose t o ove na ac J "Domoc: atls Part, her ded by Ashid
s   o  corups orl  ctans malutad or the suprs
169
01 1g/
4
ID
H

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
Dear George:
I am becoming daily more and more worried about
xR
the whole Japanese situation, and am wondering whether ne diree-
tive was sent out to sCAp based on the admirable recommendations
you made after you returned.
711.94
A man who was just he re from Japan the other day
said that what we seemed to be doing out there was to lay down
the red carpet to welcome the Soviet. The purging does not sem
to have stopped, and I understand that now there is a fairly
strong faction, formerly American in sympathy, smong the Japanese,
which is now planning to start an anti-American group. More and
more people are turning toward the Soviet because they feel that
the Americans in Tokyo certainly do not represent what we preach
as to the nature of democracy. I do not care particularly what
the Japanese say and think, except that I kmow there are many.
and probably an extremely large proportion of very fine, forward-
looking people in that country. What I do feel from the bottom
of my heart is that if, through our stupidity, we pormit Russia
to take over in Japan, which would mean, of course, the loss of
the Philippines and all of Asia to communism, we might just as
well begin building a wall around this country and try to live
our own lives as best we may.
Of course, I realize fully that it is not for me
to butt in on State Department matters, but I nevertheless be-
lieve that every decent American ought to do his little bit toward
preventing what seems at the moment the almost unpreventable ad-
vance of the Soviet everywhere. Unless we are exceedingly care-
ful on the Oclonial question, we are going to lose Italy. And
Italy is just about the best friend we have in Western Europe,
Just as Japan is the only friend we have left in Asia.
I wish m could lunch together some day because I
should like to talk with you about all these matters. But I know
how terribly busy you are and, therefore, shall understand if you
8
say there is no possibility of getting together.
94.00
Very sincerely,
Biee
Mr. George Kennan,
Department of State,
31
Washington, D. C.
X 051847

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
7
Action: EUR
Control 9313
Info:
P
Rec 'd November 27, 1948
0
12:11 p.m.
SAM
FE
OLI
FROM:
FOBCOW
CIA
POS
TO
Secretary of State
PA
DCR
: 2762, November 27
Brief Tokyc Tass item Soviet press November 27 quotes
894.00/1
Akahata report meeting democratic orgenizations Tokyo
demanding release CP member Takakura.
Dept pass Tokyo 45.
SMITH
WWA:ERA
I
-2748
NOTE:
Releyed Tokyo 11/27/48, 12:15 p.m.HEF
Fill
DEC 7 1948
FILED
PIAI
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITHI
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
NT PAINTING OFFICE

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.97)
W. R. CASTLE
2200 S STREET
DEC14194
WASHINGTON 8,D.C.
Departme.l or State
Decomber 13, 1948
tly,23|48
Dear George:
I am becoming daily more and more worried about
xR
the whole Japanese situation, and am wondering whether no direc-
tive was sent out to SCAP based on the admirable recommendations
you made after you returned.
894.00/12-1348
711.94
A man who was just he re from Japan the other day
said that what we seemed to be doing out there was to lay down
the red carpet to welcome the Soviet. The purging does not seem
to have stopped, and I understand that now the re is a fairly
strong faction, formerly American in sympathy, among the Japanese,
which is now planning to start an anti-American group. More and
more people are turning toward the Soviet because they feel that
the Americans in Tokyo certainly do not represent what we preach
as to the nature of democracy. I do not care particularly what
the Japanese say and think, except that I know there are many,
and probably an extremely large proportion of very fine, forward-
looking people in that country. What I do feel from the bottom
of my heart is that if, through our stupidity, we permit Russia
to take over in Japan, which would mean, of course, the loss of
the Philippines and all of Asia to communism, we might just as
well begin building a wall around this country and try to live
our own lives as best we may.
Of course, I realize fully that it is not for me
to butt in on State Department matters, but I nevertheless be-
lieve that every decent American ought to do his little bit toward
preventing what seems at the moment the almost unpreventable ad-
vance of the Soviet everywhere. Unless we are exceedingly care-
ful on the Oclonial question, we are going to lose Italy. And
Italy is just about the best friend we have in Western Europe,
just as Japan is the only friend we have left in Asia.
I wish  could lunch together some day because I
should like to talk with you about all these matters. But I know
how terribly busy you are and, therefore, shall understand if you
894.00/1
say there is no possibility of getting together.
Very sincerely,
Biee
Mr. George Kennan,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
3
-1318
X 051847

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.95)
is assign
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PIM 3 25
1949 FEB 11
United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan
STATE
Tokyo, Debamber 29, 1948.
DIVISIN OF
No. 813
MORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JAN 241949
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
BK
Subject: Left Wing Political Realignments.
STATE
10
JH
FiC
2
EDOF
The Honorable
5EN
≥T
The Secretary of State,
Jus
CE
Washington.
4.044
R
,504
894.00/1
Str:
5/4017/12-9
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
despatch No. 774 of December 9, 1948 concerning political
repercussions resulting from revision of the National
Public Service Law, and to bring to the Department's
attention the extent to which important realignments
appear to be forming among left wing political groups.
Disintegration of Social Democratic Party
1
The failure of the Social Democratic Party to
support revision of the Public Service Law after an
earlier pledge to do so has touched off a heated contro-
versy which threatens to split the party still further,
or to bring about what Yomiuri Shimbun has described
as the party's "mid-air disintegration". From the time
of its organization in November l945, the Social Democratic
Party has been characterized by internal dissension among
its complex components. The party has not enjoyed strong
leadership and has had to depend upon various compromise
agreements among its conflicting factions. Mr. KATAYAMA
Tetsu, head of the party and former Prime Minister, is
himself the epitome of such compromise. Although opposed
to communist extremes, ir. Katayama would, if he had his
choice, pursue a policy of thorough-going socialization,
but he has had to make continual political compromises
with more conservative elements both within and outside
his own party.
Until
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Until recently, the right wing of the Social Democratic
Party, centering around the Toitsu Kondan Kai (Unity
Conference Group), held the balance of power in party
affairs. The purge of Mr. HIRANo Rikizo and the involve-
ment of Mr. NISHIo Suehiro and Mr. NAGAE Kazuo in political
scandals has seriously undermined the power and prestige
of the right wing. On the other hand, the left wing's
influence within the party has not correspondingly
increased. In July 1948 Mr. KURODA Hisao was read out
of the party because of his strong opposition to compromise
policies, and many members of his farmer-labor group
subsequently seceded in protest. Another left wing leader,
Ir. ARAHATA Kanson, has also withdrawn and is planning to
organize a "reformed" socialist party of his own.
While these right and left wing defections have
taken place, other malcontent elements remaining in the
party have begun agitating for either a drastic reorgani-
zation or the disbandment of the party. Some dissatisfied
right wing members believe that a change of leadership,
eliminating Mr. Katayama, Mr. MATSUOKA Komakichi, and
kr. ASANUMA Inajiro, would give the party new life since
these leaders have become too closely identified with
vacillating shifts and compromises.
Dissatisfied left wing elements still remaining
within the party are also demanding its reorganization
or disbandment. A left wing group affiliated with the
Japan Farmers Union is contemplating the organization
of an anti-communist socialist party based upon the
support of the proposed new National Congress of Industrial
Union (NCIU). Heretofore, the Social Democratic Party's
labor support has come almost entirely from the General
Federation of Trade Unions, while the NCIU, through the
influence of communist fractions, has supported the
Japan Communist Party. During the past year anti-communist
leaders in the NCIU have organized Democratization Leagues
(Minshu-ka Domei) and have challenged the predominant
position of the comnunists. The Democratization League
groups are now attempting to bring about the organization
of a "reformed", non-communist NCIU.
Another left wing group in the party, which also
demands disbandment, has proposed the organization of a
pro-communist socialist party which might become affiliated
with the new Labor-Farmer rarty (described below) of
Mr. Kuroda Hisao and form a popular front with the communists.
This group has a number of former communists affiliated
with it such as Mr. KATSUi.ATA Seiichi.
Still another left wing Social Democrat, Mir. YAliAKAWA
Hitoshi, who before the war was one of the leaders in
the Japan Communist rarty, has also issued a call for
disbandment.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
disbandment. In the 1920's Mr. Yamakawa wes the center
of a dispute which almost split the communist party
(the famous Yamakawa-Fukumoto controversy which the
Comintern was finally compelled to settle with its
1927 "Thesis"). Later Yamakawa drifted away from the
party and became identified with the popular front
movement in the late 1930's, and joined the Social
Democretic Party at the end of the war. Mr. Yamakawa
has never felt at home with the socialists and has
periodically expressed a desire for a popular front
with the communists.
In the December 13 issue of Yomiuri Shimbun
Mr. Yamakawa explained his views on the need to disband
the present Social Democratic Party which he declared
is "now entirely isolated from the class which represents
socialistic tendencies". The party therefore must be
reconstructed upon the basis of "the class which supports
socialism". Mr. Yamakawa views the decision of the
party to oppose revision of the Public Service Law as
a belated and insincere effort to meet the demands of
labor. In Mr. Yamakawa's opinion, the present party
should dissolve because it has failed to keep in contact
with the working masses "through revolutionary action".
It is believed that if ir. Yamakawa is successful in
reforming the present party or organizing a new one,
his efforts will be premised on the possibility of
achieving a popular front with the communists.
The New Labor-Farmer Party
The most significant left wing activity thus
far undertaken has been the establishment on December 3,
1948 of the new Labor-Farmer Party (Rodosha Nomin To,
commonly abbreviated as Rono To), headed by Mr. Kuroda
Hisao who was expelled from the Social Democratic Party
in July 1948.
The Rono To is a manifestation of left wing discontent
with the relatively conservative policies pursued by the
Social Democratic Party under the leadership of Chairman
5.1
Katayama Tetsu and Secretary General Asanuma Inajiro.
The new party poses as an independent group, standing
between the socialists and the communists. A declaration
of principles issued at the time of the party's inauguration
charges that the Social Jemocretic Party "has degenerated
into a bourgeois party by abandonment of its class
struggle." At the same time, the declaration accuses the
Japan Conmunist Party of becoming "dogmatic" and failing
to guarantee the interests of the working masses. In
effect, the new party argues that the socialists are too
bourgeois to benefit the masses while the conmunists are
too radical to be practical. The position taken by the
Rono To,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
. Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Rono To, however, is more opposed to the Social Democratic
Party than to the Japan Communist rarty.
Communist Interest in Labor-Farmer Party
It is of significance, therefore, that the communists
have evinced keen interest in the new-born Rono To.
Mr. NOSAKA Sanzo of the Japan Communist Party appeared
as a speaker at one of the new party's preparatory rallies.
The communist party is not likely to permit one of its
top leaders to appear at the rally of another party unless
this is expected to prove advantageous to the communists.
Conversely, it is not likely that Mr. Kuroda would launch
his new party with a communist party speaker on the platform
if he did not believe that evidence of such friendly
relations with the communists will prove advantageous.
Questioned by a reporter of Shin Tokyo (issue of December 6)
as to how a line of demarcation could be drawn between the
Rono To and the conmunist party, Mr. Kuroda reportedly
replied: "The comunist party is also struggling for the
sake of democratic revolution. However, it often leans to
extreme leftist behaviorism in neglect of power relation-
ships in class strife. It is not as if we had drawn a
definite line against it, but we do believe that with the
communist party alone the democratic revolution would be
difficult to achieve." In the same issue of Shin Tokyo
Mr. Nosaka was also interviewed on the subject of the
Rono To. While suggesting that the new party contains
some anti-communist elements, r. Nosaka added: "Of course,
there are some fine individuals in this party, especially
among the rank and file. I would like to continue our
struggles hereafter in close cooperation with these
persons. Also, there are some in this party who support
scientific, revolutionary Socialism and Marxism. I think
such persons should voluntarily join the communist party,
just as the socialists in Aomori did."
It is also significant that the communist party
daily, Akahata, has accorded the new Rono To considerable
uncritical publicity. Communist publications seldon
devote space to straight news reporting; their articles
usually propagandize. It may be assumed, therefore,
that the Japan Communist Party views with approval the
appearance of a seemingly rival party at the extreme left
of the political stage. Mr. Kuroda himself is a former
member of the Japen Communist rarty. Among those assist-
ing him in the organization of the new party are a number
of well known communist sympathizers, believed to be
secret communist party members, such as Mr. YOSHIDA
Sukeharu of the National Federation of Metal Mine Workers,
a nuuber of representatives of the communist-dominated
National Congress of Industrial Unions, and of the
communist front Jemocracy rrotection League. The peculiar
atmosphere
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
atmosphere which has attended the organization of the
Rono To strongly suggests that this new left wing political
party is itself a skilfully conceived communist front
group.
Commenting on the two parties, Tokyo Shimbun in
its issue of December 7 noted that "the platform and
slogans of the two parties are so nearly alike that we
may fairly call them the same". This paper further noted
that "there is a considerable group of voters disappointed
with the socialists but hesitant to support the communists;
if the party is guided wisely, the Labor-Farmer Party
which claims 20,000 party members, can win this group over."
Renewed Interest in a Popular Front
All evidence indicates that the communists have
recently placed more emphasis than ever before on the use
of fronts. Recent notable examples are the organization
of the Farmer-Lapor kelief Association in the summer of
1948, and the appearance of the Democracy rrotection League
in August, 1948. The latter organization has served pri-
marily as a social and cultural front in carrying out
communist opposition to revision of the National rublic
Service Law. A number of leftists associated with these
two major front organizations are also active in the newly-
created Rono To.
In giving indirect support to the Rono To, it appears
that the Japan Comaunist Party has made a significant change
in its political strategy. Heretofore, front groups have
been used by the Japanese communists primarily as agencies
to implement the party's policies and, where possible, to
secure political support for the party itself. For example,
the Democracy Protection Lea ue assists the party's agita-
tion against revision of the Public Service Law by giving
the appearance that the comunist party is only one of many
groups opposed to revision. at the same time, by high-
lighting the comamunist party's position on the issue, the
Democracy Protection League endeavors to create greater
non-communist interest in and support of the prograin of the
comnunist party.
If the Rono To is a communist front, however, the
communist party is in the position of encouraging the growth
of a rival political party. Outwardly, this might apear to
be dangerous strategy, but the encourugement of seemingly
rival political parties has similarly been pursued by
communists in other countries. The Japan Communist Party,
like the comunist party in the United States, is under no
illusion about its inability to win a strong enough position
in elections to determine the oliticul future of the country.
In these circunstunces the communist party in the United
States gave its unyualified support to r. Henry WALLACE's
Progressive Party in the last presidential election, because
the conunists were p arently convinced that they could
work efreet vely with and through Mr. Wallace's group.
It appears that the Japan Communist Party hus reached
a si ilar conclusion with respect to Mr. Kuroda's Rono To.
While the Japan Communist Party will push its own political
campi n
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
campaign quite independently, its leaders unquestionably
realize that there is still a large liberal and left wing
element which is not yet prepared to join the communists
or to support communist candidates. Normally such liberals
and leftists affiliate with or support the Social Democratic
Party. Soon after the beginning of the Cccupation, before
political alignments were as clearly defined as today,
the Japanese communists nade repeated attempts to interest
the Social Jemocratic Party in a popular front merger. The
socialists, however, consistently rejected this effort to
infiltrate their ranks, although the party's left wing
was always partial tovard tie popular front idea. The
Japanese communists rinelly decided that it was futile to
tempt the Social Democratic Party with such bait. Popular
front proposals were dropped about the middle of 1946 and
have not since been revived.
Now, however, the position of the Social Democratic
Party has changed considerably. It has suffered in prestige
and vote appeal. It has been weakened by conflicts among
its varied elements, some of which have broken away from
the party. Other strong leaders have been lost as a
result of the purge or implication in political scandals.
Such a party no longer offers an attraction to the communists
as a popular front merger, although the comaunists are
again showing interest in such a strategy.
The advent of the nono To, as a new left wing
party already having twelve members in the House of Repre-
sentatives and apparently cohesive and free of internal
conflicts, offers the Japanese communists an advantageous
opportunity for coordinated action. The Rono To is
radical enough for the communists to feel safe in cooper-
ating with it; yet it is not so radical that it will
alarm liberals and leftists who have been afraid to
support the comnunist party. The communists apparently
believe that the radical elements in the labor and farmer
unions can be counted upon to support cosmunist party
candidates through the activities of conmunist cell
members and fractions in these bodies. (This unquestion-
ably explains the decision to have r. DOBa3HI Kazuyoshi,
head of the All-Japan Communication Norkers Union,
formally join the conmunist party and run for the Diet
as a communist candidate.) A further utility seen by
the coamunists in propagating good relations with the
Rono To lies in meeting the threat of the strong anti-
communist bloc in the National Congress of Industrial
Unions (which has been organized around the various
Democratization League). Democratization League followers
would ordinarily be expected to support the Social Demo-
cratic Party, and the party's leftist have already
begun working closely with league groups. The communists
may have in mind attempting to neutralize the Democratiza-
tion League's anti-communist activity in the labor move-
ment by diverting its political strength to the Rono To.
The
JONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No.' 813,
December 29, 1948,
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
The Rono To is as yet an exceedingly small party,
and lacks a leader of national reputation. There are
some indications, however, that Mr. Kuroda's position
as head of the party is a temporary one notwithstanding
his role in establishing the party. Considerable
significance, therefore, is attached to persistent reports
that the Rono To is conducting quiet negotiations with
Mr. OYAMA Ikuo in an effort to induce him to join the
party and take over its leadership. Since his return to
Japan in 1947 after a long exile in the United States,
Mr. Oyama has abstained from direct participation in
politics or direct affiliation with any political party.
This has surprised most leftist Japanese who expected
that this veteran socialist and former leader of the pre-
war Rono To would take an active part in politics. Mr. Oyama,
however, has preferred to pursue a cautious course and
has avoided all political commitments. On the other hand,
he has taken great pains, through lecture tours and prolific
writing for the press, to keep his name before the Japanese
public. It is quite possible that kr. Oyama is playing
a waiting game, hoping that out of the present realignment
of left wing political forces he may be called upon to
head a popular front movement.
Communist-Socialist Merger"
Wile the Rono To appears to enjoy apparent communist
party sponsorship, other left wing elements from the Social
Democratic Party are entering into open alliance with the
Japanese communists. In Aomori Prefecture a number of
Social Democrats, led by Mr. OS.A Kyumei, have broken
away from their party and openly joined the communists.
A similar movement has already begun in Niigata Prefecture,
Nagano Prefecture, and several other areas. The communist
party is actively supporting the communist-socialist merger
drive in the prefectures. The communists, however, make
it clear that this "merger" is a one-sided transaction.
In its is ue of December 10, Akahata declared that "the
merger can succeed only when communist party decisions
and policies are faithfully observed."
These developments in the left wing political area
suggest that an important realignment of leftist forces
is now taking place. From the time of its organization
at the end of the war, the Social Democratic Party was
a political anomaly, which attempted to incorporate in
one body a wide range of political sentiment. It tried
to cover the fielu fron the boundary of conservativisi.
(as represented by the Democratic-Liberal und Democratic
parties) to the boundery of ultra-radicalism (as repre-
sented by the Japan Communist Party). Such wide coverage
necessitated
CONFIDE.TIAL

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 813,
December 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-8-
necessitated a strange merger of conservative and radical
opinion which has proved to be an unworkable political
alliance.
Conclusions
The trends described in this despatch suggest that
a more clearly defined realignment of political forces
is now taking place. Unfortunately, however, this
realignment is at the expense of the middle groupings
from which it woili.ost desirable that a sound labor
party should emerge. While the political center is
tending to disintegrate, the conservative forces repre-
sented by the Democratic-Liberal and Democratic Parties
are likely to merge into a single, conservative party.
If such a situation develops, it appears possible that
the only effective opposition to the conservative right
will be an extreme left wing front under communist leader-
ship. In our view a far more desirable and practicable
political pattern to encourage democratic development in
Japan would be a conservative group facing a labor type
of political party rather than a conservative group faced
by an extree leftist front. It is also believed that a
formidable leftist opposition under communist leadership
will tend to make the conservative right still more con-
servative if not reactionary.
However desirable may be a final patterning of
Japanese parties into alternating conservative and labor
majorities, with the communists confined to a small minority,
the developments outlined above indicate that the communists
are bending every effort to take advantage of the prevailing
disorganization in the parties in the area between right
and left and are striving to attract to the communist sphere
of control and influence a sufficiently la rge political
following to assure the communists much more than a small
minority position.
Respectfully yours,
. J. Sebald
Original and hectograph to Department
800 Japan
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVIS
NORTHEAST ASIAR
APR2.11949
894.00
DEPARTMENTLOF STATE
LEFT WING GROUPS IN JAPANESE POLITICS, 1918 - 1948
OIR Report No. 2530A
January 1, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DC/R
Division of Research for Far East
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE RESEARCH
Cat_
RESTRICTED

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.97)
REBTRTOTED
TABIE OF CONTENTS
Pare
Sumary....
x1
PART OHE: THE JAPANESE PROLETARIAN MOVEMENT IN THE PRE-SURRENDER
PERIOD.
1
I. The Proletarian Movement, 1918-1940.
1
A. Major Characteristics.
1
1. Datroduction.
1
2. Government Suppression.
1
3. Ideological Controversy.
2
B. Proletarian Movements Before the Adoption of
Universal Manhood Suffrage..
3
1. The Initial Poriod.
3
2. The Effeots of World War I and the Russiam
Revelution.
4
a. Introduction.
b. The progress of trade umionim.
c. The Organization of the Commmist Party
C. Prolotarian Parties Between 1926 and 1932.
7
1. Attempts to organize a Proletarian Party
7
a. The drawing of the line between Right and
Loft.
7
b. The stimulus of manhood suffrago.
9
c. The Rōdō Momintō
11
2. The Recrganisation of the Mippon Kyosanto.
13L
3. The Prolotarian Parties and the General klection
of 1928.
15
a. The parties and their platforme.
15
b. Electiom results and Diet activities.
17
4. Proletariam Party Splits and Reorgamisation,
1928-1931.
19
a. Introdustion.
19
b. The dissolutiom of the Rōdo Nomintō
19
REBTRICTED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.98)
-111-
RESTRICTED
Pago
c. The formation of the Nippon Taishutō.
20
d. The reorganization of the Rodo Nomintō.
21
. The position of the Nippon Kyosantō.
21
f. The olection of 1930 and the drive toward
unification of the proletarian parties...
24
D. The Rise of National Socialim, 1932-40..
27
1. Effects of the Manchurian Incident.
27
a. The national socialist splits and the
organization of the Shakai Taishutō.
27
b. The Nippon Kyosantō and the 1932 Theses
31
2. The Issues of War and Fascism..
34
a. Leftist united-front movements
34
b. The change in line of the Nippon Kyōsantō.
37
3. The Proletarian Parties in the Elections of 1936
and 1937.
40
4. The China Incident.
43
a. The change in Shakai Taishūto policy
43
b. The dissolution of the Shakai Taishutō
47
II. The Loft in Exile.
51
A. Introduction.
51
B. The Japanose in Communist China.
1. Early Policies of the Chinese Communists.
51
2. The North China Branch of the Hansen Domei
53
3. The Arrival of WOSAKA Sanzo and the Organization
of the Japan People's Emancipation League (Nippon
Jimmin Kaihō Remme1).
54
4. Nosake as Spokemman for the Nippon Kyōsanto
59
C. Japanese Radicals in Nationalist China.
62
1. KAJI Wataru.
62
2. AOYAMA Kazuo.
63
PART TWO: THE REVIVAL OF LEIT-WING ORGANIZATIONS IN THE PERIOD AFTER
THE SURREIDER.
65
I. The Hippon Shakaito (Socialist Party of Japan).
66
A. Organization of the Party...
66
RESTRICTED

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
- 1v -
RESTRICTED
Pago
1. Leadership
66
2. Structure.
70
3. Finances.
71
B. Program and Policy.
72
1. General Objectives and Strategy
72
2. Political.
72
a.
The Emperor question.
72
b. Constitutional reform
73
c.
The Diet.
78
d. Local government.
79
3. Economic.
79
a.
Industry.
79
b.
Finance
80
c.
Labor.
81
d. Agriculture.
83
Foreign.
84
5. Social.
84
Education and related fields
84
b. Women and the family.
85
II. The Nippon Kyōsanto (Communist Party of Japan).
86
A. Organization of the Party.
86
Leadership.
86
2.
Structure
88
3.
Membership
91
4.
Finances
91
5.
Publications
91
B. Strategy and Tactics.
93
1. Introduction.
93
2. Appoals to Spocial Groups.
99
a.
Youth.
99
b.
Womon.
100
c. Minority groups.
101
d. Professional groups.
102
3. Direct Action Campaigns.
103
C. Program and Policies.
103
1. Political.
103
a. The Emperor question.
103
RESTRICTED

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Pago
b. Constitutional reform.
106
o. The Diet.
111
d. Local governmont.
112
2. Ecomamic.
113
Industry
113
b. Finance.
224
c. Labor.
115
d. Agriculture.
116
3. Foreign.
117
a. General policy.
117
b. Mationalism and attitudes toward foreign
118
powers
c. Peace treaty proposals
121
4. Social.
122
a. Mucation.
122
b. Women and the family
122
III. Revival of the Trade-Union Movement.
123
A. Introduction.
123
B. The Trade-Union Federations.
124
1. The Rodo Kumiai Södome1 (National Federation of
Labor).
124
2.
The Zenkoku Sangyöbetsu Rōdō Kmiai Kaigi
(Wational Congress of Industrial Unions).
126
3.
The Zen Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi (Japan Trade
Union Conference)..
128
C. The Nippon Nōmin Kumiai (Japan Farmers' Union).
128
1. Introduction.
128
2. Internal Controversy.
129
3. The February 1946 Inaugural Convention
130
PART THREE: MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN LEFT-VING POLITICS, 1945-1946.
132
I. The Popular Front Movement Before the Elections of April
10, 1946.
132
A. Commmmist Attempts to Create a Popular Front.
132
1. Introduction.
132
2. The Jimmin Kaibō Remme1 (People's Easmoipation
League)..
132
RESTRICTED

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
-1-
RESTRICTED
Paso
3. The Renewal of Overtures to the Shakaito.
133
4. The Returm of Nosaka..
135
B. Popular Front Organizations in the Pre-Eleotion Period.
137
1. Introduotion.
137
2. The Minshu Jimmin Remme1 (Democratic People's
League).
138
3. Local Popular Front Groups
140
Popular Fronts on Specific Issues
141
II. The Left and the Formation of the Toshida Cabinet.
142
A. The General Election of April 10, 1946.
142
1. Introduction.
142
2. Socialist Policy
142
3. Commmist Policy.
143
B. Major Issues Affecting Left-Wing Activities in the
Cabinet Formation Period.
148
1. Political Background of Loft Wing Activities.
148
2. The Coalition Issue.
149
3. The Popular Front Issue.
152
III. The Resumption of United Front Negotiations.
153
A. The Kyuköku Minshu Sensen Ressmei (Democratic Front to
Save the Nation)..
153
I. Renewal of Socialist Activities.
153
2. Trade-Union Pressure
154
3. The Shakaitō Plan of May 26.
155
4. The Exclusion of the Commmmists
157
B. The Inauguration of the Minshu Jimin Resmei.
158
C. Movemonts for Trade-Union Unification.
159
1. Sanbetsu Overtures to the Södōme1
159
2. Repercussions of the Electric Power Dispute
160
IV. The Renewal of Coalition Overtures, December 1946 -
January 1947.
164
A. Introduction.
164
B. The Movement for the Dissolution of the Diet.
164
1. The Presmre for a New Election.
164
2. Activitios of the Shakaitō's Trade-Union Committee.
165
3. The Socialist Decision to Call for Dissolution.
167
RESTRICTED

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
-v11-
RESTRICTED
Pago
C. Coalition Negotiations, Jamuary 4 - January
17, 1947.
169
1. Conservative Party Attitudes toward a
Coalition Government.
169
2.
Socialist Reactions.
170
3.
Trade-Union Pressure.
171
4. Loft-Wing Demande.
172
5. Rupture of Negotiations
173
D. Coalition Negotiations, January 20-29, 1947.
174
1. Continued Trade-Union Activities.
174
2.
The Meeting of the Shakaito Central Executive
Committee..
175
3.
The Second Rupture.
176
4.
The Prohibition of the February 1 General
Strike.
176
E. The Aftermath.
177
1. Introduction.
177
2.
Organization of the Zenrören (Zenkoku
Rōdōkumiai Renraku Kyogikai --
All-Japan
Trede-Union Liaison Council)
177
3.
Dissension in the Sanbetsu.
179
4.
The Split in the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai
181
a. Major Issues.
181
b. Commmmist preparations for the convention..
183
c. Convention proceedings.......
183
PART FOUR: THE LEFT IN OFFICE.
186
I. The Organization of the Katayama Cabinet.
186
A. The Kloction of April 1947.
186
1. Factors Affecting the Election.
186
2. Conduct and Results of the National Elections.
187
a. The united front issue.
187
b. Socialist policy.
188
o. Communist policy.
190
d. Trade-Union Activities.
191
3. Conduct and Results of the Local Elections.
196
RESTRICTED

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
-v111-
RESTRICTED
Pago
B. The Coalition Negotiations of May 1947..
200
1. Factors Affecting the Negotiations.
200
2. The Four-Party Policy Agreement.
203
3. The Left-Wing Manifesto of May 15.
204
4. Organization of the Three-Party Cabinet.
205
II. Eight Months of the Katayama Cabinet.
206
A. Introduction.
206
1. Problems of Policy
208
2. Internal Cabinet Difficultios
209
B. The Coal Mine Control Law and Socialist-Democratic
Controversy..
211
1. The Issues at Stake.
211
2. Inter-party Negotiations.
213
3. The Coal Bill in the Diet.
214
C.
The Hirano Controversy and the Split in the
Shakaitō.
216
1. Introduction.
216
2. The Farmers' Union Issue.
216
3. Hirano's Expulsion from the Cabinet.
220
4. Controversy over the Succession.
222
D. Wages, the Budget, and the Fall of the Cabinet.
225
1. The 1,800-Yen Wage Standard.
225
a. Attitudes of labor toward the Katayama
cabinet......
225
b. Demands of the government workers.
227
2. The Budget Controversy.....
231
a. Background.
231
b. The Shakaito national convention.
232
c. The dispute over the supplementary budget...
234
III. The Ashida Cabinet.
235
A. Organization.
235
1. Controversy over the Sucoession.
235
2. Discussion of Cabinet Policy.
238
B. Trade-Union Anti-Commmmism and the Revival of
Commumist United Front Erforts.
241
RESTRICTED

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.97)
-1x-
RESTRIOTED
Pare
1. Introduction...
241
2. Anti-Commmmism in the Trade-Union Feleratioms
242
3. Weaksning of the Anti-Commamists in the
Kokutetsu....
244
4. Stalemate in the Mippon Nämin Aumiai.
247
5. The Kyosanto's Democratic Racial Front Campaign..
248
C. The Budget Controversy and the Split im the Shakaito.
251
1. The War Bond Interest Payment Question......
251
2. Dispute over Bulget Provisions.
252
3. Effects of the Nishio Scandal.
253
4. Organizatiom of the Orthodox Diet Group.......
256
D. The Fall of the Cabinet..
258
1. Shakaito Discussion of Diet Dissolution.....
258
2. Iffects of SCAP Demends for Revision of the
National Publio Service Law.
260
a. Baokground..
260
b. Repercussioms om the left.
261
c. The position of the Bhakaito
264
3. The Showa Denko Soandal.
266
Conclusions.
268
APPERDIXRB
APPKDIX A: Biographical Notes on Japansse Left-Ving Loaders..
273
APPIIDIX B: Prino1pal Offioers of the Left-Wing Parties, 1945-48..
309
APPERDIX C: Glossary of Prineipal Left-Wing Orgamizations..
316
RESTRICTED

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Paee
TABIES
Table 1: Left-Wing Parties in the Lower House Eleotiom of April
1946.
144
Table 2: 1947 Japanese House of Representatives Election:
Votes Cast for Parties by Prefecture.
192
Table 3: The 1947 Japanese House of Councillors Election:
Left Wing Party Votes in the Prefectural Constitusncies......
193
MAPS
MAP:
Japan Election of House of Representatives April 1946......f. 146
MAP:
Japan Klection of House of Counoillors (By Prefectural
Constituencies) April 1947......
190
MAP:
Japan Eloction of House of Representatives April 19k7......f. 190
CHART
CHART:
Leading Japaness Proletariam Parties, 1925-40..............f. 190
When this study outlives its usofulnese
to you, ploase return it to:
DEPARTVENT OF STATE
Offioe of Intelligance Research (OIR)
626 State Annex #1
Washington, D.C.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
SUMMARY
The proletarian movement in Japan originated in the industrialization of
the 1870's but did not become of any great importance until after World War I.
Between 1918 and the passage of the universal manhood suffrage law in 1925,
organized proletarian efforts were devoted largely to the establishment of trade
unions. The granting of universal manhood suffrage, however, stimulated the
organization of proletarian political parties that were supported by and worked
closely with the trade-union federations.
From its inception in the 1870's to the end of World War II, the Japanese
labor movement operated within a framework of severe government repression of
both its political and economic activities. Major legislation as well as police
regulations limited the content of the programs of unione and parties and subjected
their activities to constant police surveillance and interference, their meetings to
abrupt terminations, their organizations to frequent dissolutions and their leadership
to intermittent arrest.
In establishing policy, therefore, the political leadership of the proletarian
movement not only had to reconcile conflicting elements within its own ranks and to
compromise on certain issues in order to make possible the broadening of its support
but also had to seek at all times to stay within the limits of the logally allowablo.
Since government interpretation of these limits tended to be variable and unpredictable,
proletarian party programs, in turn, tended to be vague at best and inconsistent at
worst.
The ideological controversy common to labor moveonts was, if anything,
sharpened by government suppression, and only from 1936 to 1939 was unity attained
on the left. From the end of World War I to the beginning of the period of Japanese
expansion on the Asiatic continent in 1931, the major ideological split was that
between the Social Democrats and their supporters on the one hand and the Communists
RESTRICTED

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
RESTRICTED
and their sympathizers on the other. During this period there were frequent moves
for the amalgamation of the various proletarian parties. Most of these moves
failed partially or completely. The primary reason for their failure seems to
have been the controversy over admission of left-wing elements to the coalition,
but personal rivalries undoubtedly were a contributing factor.
By l932, however, the effectiveness of government suppression of the
Commmmist movement and the incarceration or flight of most of its leaders had
considerably reduced the importance of the controversy over the Communist issue.
Meanwhile, a new issue had arisen to take its place -- the controversy between
those elements in the proletarian movement that, in a period of heightening
patriotic fervor, veered in the direction of national socialiem and those that
attempted to remain loyal to the principles of social democracy even while
retreating under pressure from their more radical position of the past. Although
this controversy resulted initially in the complete splitting-off of the most
convinced national socialists and the amalgamation of the remaining groups into
the Shakai Taishuto, the dominant proletarian party of the 1930's, it ended in
1940 in complete disunity and the disappearance, under government pressure, of
organized labor as an independent force.
During the war active Japenese radicaliem was confined to small groupe of
exiles and prisoners of war in China. In Japan proper, labor disturbances and
slackening morale were occasionally attributed to Communist or other leftist
activities, but no evidence has emerged of any significant wartime underground.
In China there were two centers of Japanese radicaliem -- one in the Kuomintang
area and one in the aree under Commumiat control. In Nationaliet China, Japanese
radical activities hardly constituted a movement, since they were confined to a
very large extent to the assistance rendered to Allied pyschological warfare by two
RESTRICTED

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
- x111 -
RESTRICTED
extremely small groups of Japanese prisoners, each led by a Japanese exile. In the
Communist area, on the other hand, use of Japanese prisoners in peychological
warfare led to the organization of a movement that, although amall and limited in
its activities, was important because of the training it gave its members in
organizational and indoctrination techniques and the groundwork it established for
present-day Commumist united front efforts.
The organization of the Nippon Shakaito (Socialist Party) in November 1945
not only represented the revival of organized social democracy in Japan but also
demonstrated the willingness of right- and left-wing social democrats and former
national socialists to bury their past differences, to some extent at least, in
order to achieve unity of action in the present and future. The revival of the
Nippon Kyōsantō (Communist Party), on the other hand, and the strength that 1t
derived from its new freedom intensified conflict among the factions of the
Shakaitō by raising the united front issue to a position of greater prominence than
it had ever occupied in prewar Japan. At the seme time, the new strength of the
Socialists raised the parallel and equally controversial issue of cooperation with
the conservative parties.
Proposals for a Commmist-Socialist united front were first made by the
Communiste in the early daye of the occupation, when both parties were still in
the process of organization. Despite considerable press support for the united
front idea, however, the pressure exerted in its favor by left-wing Socialiets, the
Shakaito decided in January 1946 to postpone decision until after the lower house
election scheduled for April 1946.
In the April election the Socialists polled about 9 million votes and elected
93 members, while the Communists polled about 2 million votes and seated 5 candidates.
Since the two conservative parties, the Liberals and the Progressives, hed seated 141
RESTRICTED

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
- 1v -
RESTRICTED
and 93 candidates respectively, it was apparent that a coalition would be essential
for the formation of a cabinet with some prospect for stability. Similarity of the
background and attitudes of the Liberals and Progressives may perhaps have made
inevitable their ultimate cooperation in the formation of a government. Rivalries
and ambitions, to some extent inherited from the prewar period, were sufficiently
strong, however, to lead each of the two conservative parties to consider the
possibility of joint action with a third party. In thie situation, the bargaining
power of the Socialists was fairly strong but their ability to use it was diminished
by the issues of principle upon which the party was split, issues in which the
question of collaboration with the Commmists played an important part. After forty
days of interparty negotiations, in which strong Commmist pressure was exerted
against Socialist participation in a Liberal-Progressive coalition, the two
conservative parties joined in support of the Yoshida cabinet and the attention of
the Left was focused once again on the united front problem.
In united front discussions it soon became apparent that the Shakaito envisaged
a united front in which party representatives in the Diet would dominate, whereas the
Commnnists, aware of their Diet weakmess, sought the formation of a popular front in
which trade unions and other mass organizations with relatively strong Commmiet
influonce would participate on an equal basis with the parties. After prolonged
discussions, marked once again by internal Socialist controversy and by the exercise
of Commnist pressure through organizations under their influence as well as
through the party itself, the Shakaitō in July 1946 finally decided to exclude the
Commnists from the united front organization to be set up under Socialist auspices.
By the fall of 1946, discontent with the Yoshida cabinet had lod Yoshida himself
to consider strengthening the coalition by inducing the Socialists to enter it.
The onsuing negotiations in December 1946-January 1947 culminated in reorganization
of the existing coalition and were in many respects similar to the negotiations of
the preceding May before the original formation of the Yoshida cabinet.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
-7 -
RESTRICTED
In both periods, the Shakaito was rent internally over the issue of cooperation
with the conservative parties. Comnmists and left-ving Socialists alike utilized
widespread labor discontent to put pressure on right-wing Socialists and on the
government for the formation of a Socialist-centered cabinet, which was widely
demanded by the press. The similarities between the Liberals end Progressives
were sufficiently strong to outweigh their differences and lead them to ultimate
cooperation.
The differences between the two periods, although less striking, were of
great potential importance. In the first place, the issue of a umited front
between the Socialists and Commmiste, which played so important a role in the
earlier crisis, did not arise in the latter period, when the Comamists were
politically isolated, exerting their influence through certain trade unions rather
than through the party and its Diet representatives. Secondly, internal divisions
within the two conservative parties had become considerably stronger and an important
Progressive faction had moved somewhat closer in its program to the Socialists.
Although Yoshida had succeeded in reorganizing his cabinet on the basis of the
existing coalition by the end of January 1947, only the presence of SCAP averted
acute crisis in the relations between the government and its dissatisfied employees,
whose udions had come increasingly under the influence of Communists and Communist
sympathizers. SCAp's prohibition of a strike planned by these unions for February 1,
however, gave the government only temporary respite, since it was followed a week
later by a SCAp statement calling for a general election as soon as possible.
With the imediate pressure for the overthrow of the Yoshida cabinet diminished
by the imminence of a general election, organized labor turned its attention to the
question of a umited union front. By the end of March the Socialist-dominated
federation, the Sodomei, had joined with the Communist-dominated federation, the
Sanbetsu, and a number of independent unions in the organization of an extremely
loose coordinating body. of greater potential significance, however, was the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
-71 -
RESTRICTED
development within the Sanbetsu of opposition to the federation's Communist-dominated
leadership on the grounds that it was responsible for the February 1 strike fiasco.
Meamwhile, the political parties were actively preparing for the national and
local elections to be held in April 1947. Early in March the Socialists rejected
Commumist proposals that the two parties cooperate in the conduct of their
campaigna. The local elections were, nevertheless, marked by a large number of
instances in which the Communists supported Socialist candidates and by a few casee
of actual united front election organizations. As a result of the elections, the
Socialists became the plurality party in the lower house, with 143 seats, and won
46 seats in the upper house. The Commmists, on the other hand, made an unimpressive
showing, winning only four seats in each house.
Once again the distribution of seats in the lower house made a coalition
cabinet inevitable, this time with the Socialists taking the leadership in its
formation. At the end of May, after prolonged negotiations, a cabinet was formed,
led by Socialist Premier KATAYAMA Tetsu and including representatives of the
Democratic Party (which had replaced the Progressive Party before the elections)
and the People's Cooperative Party. The cabinet thus formed was bound by a four-
party agreement in which major concessions with regard to financial policy and state
control of the national economy had been made by the Socialiste and to which the
Liberals had adhered despite their subsequent refusal to participate in the cabinet.
The Katayama cabinet remained in office for eight months, during which time
it was progressively weakened by differences between its two major components
regarding economic policy as well as by factional disputes within each of the parties.
A bill for state control of the coal mines, long a major Socialist objective, was
the first issue to split the cabinet and, over a six-month period, was the sub ject
of increasingly bitter Socialist-Democratic controversy. By the end of November
a state control law was finally passed. This law, although conspicuously vague and
RESTRICTED

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
RESTRICTED
weak, proved so unacceptable to twenty-eight Democratic members of the lower house
as to cause their secession from the party. Even before this HIRAno Rikizo, right-
wing Socialist Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, had provided the occasion for
another controversy by his attempts to increase crop prices against the wishes of
a number of the other ministers holding economic partfolios. Hirano's diamissal
from the cabinet in October not only resulted ultimately in the secession from
the Shakaito of fifteen of his lower house followers but also gave rise to a left-
wing offensive precipitated by the problem of appointing his successor and
culminating finally in the fall of the cabinet because of the refusal of left-wing
Socialists to vote for a goverment-proposed supplementary budget.
The Ashida cabinet, which assumed office in April 1948 under Democratic
leadership, was composed of the same parties that had participated in the Katayama
cabinet and proved equally incapable of reaching mutually satisfactory policy
compromises and of maintaining the unity of its component parties. Although, unlike
the Katayama cabinet, the Ashida cabinet included representatives of the left as
well as the right and center factions of the Shakaitō, this in itself was no
guarantee of unified Socialist support for the cabinet, since the left wing had
become increasingly divided internally over issues of policy, cabinet participation,
and relations with the Commmists. The Democrats, meanwhile, had lost fourteen
more Diet members and a large group remaining in the party was becoming increasingly
susceptible to Liberal pressure for a united conservative front. In July a dispute
over the budget -- in essence a continuation of that which had caused the fall of
the Katayama cabinet -- resulted in the loss to the Shakaitō by expulsion or
secession of sixteen of its Diet members, and it seemed unlikely that the cabinet
had many weeks of life remaining. Socialist demands for withdrawal from the
cabinet and for dissolution of the Diet, however, were temporarily stilled on
July 22 when General MacArthur, in a letter to Premier Ashida, called for revisions
of the National Public Service Law in the direction of curtailing the righte enjoyed
RESTRICTED

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
RESTRICTED
by government employees under existing labor legislation. Until the beginning of
October, the Socialists, caught in the embarrassing position of having either to
dieown their own labor policy or to oppose SCAp's wishes, sought to limit the
required revisions as much as possible. Late in September, however, a sensational
political scandal involving cabinet ministers of both the major government parties
gave the Socialist left wing the opportunity to insist on cebinet resignation for
reasons ostensibly entirely extraneous to the Public Service Law issue. On
October 7 the Ashida cabinet resigned. It was ultimately replaced by the Yoshida
cebinet, a single-party government, which, late in December l948, dissolved the Diet.
At the begirming of l949, after a year and a half in office, the Shakaitō would
appear to have suffered much more from the disadvantages of shared power in a time
of acute crisis than it has gained from the opportunities of political leadership.
Certainly, in facing the electorate once again it can neither offer the possible
advantages of the untried nor claim, on the basis of the record, that the Socialists
have at least left Jepan better than they found it. It has to add to the claim of
experience in office that it previously lacked only the dubious argument that
without Socialist participation in the cabinet the situation might have been worse
and that the weaknesses of government from May 1947 to October 1948 arose not from
the weaknesses of the Shakaito per se but from its failure to control the majority
that would have made possible a genuine Socialist administration.
Added to the disadvantages to the Shakaito resulting from identification with
eighteen months of economic hardehip, political futility, and public scandal will be
those that result from the consequences of an internal disunity that was only
implicit in 1947. In 1949 the Shakaitō will compete for popular support not only
with the conservative parties and the Communists but also with two of ita own offshoots,
the Kakughin Shakaitō on the right and the Rōdōsha Nōmintō on the left.
Even though the Kyōsantō can expect to benefit from the latest split in Socialist
ranks, whether through outright cooperation with the Rodōsha Nomintō or merely through
RESTRICTED

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
- xx -
RESTRICTED
through the accentuation of differences within the non-Communist left, the Communists
suffer from serious weaknesses of their own. That the Japanese people, in general,
appear to be moving toward the right rather than the left at this time need not
affect the ability of the Kyosanto to strengthen itself at the expense of other
left-wing groupings. A more serious threat to the Communist position is the growing
enti-Communism in labor organizations. This anti-Communiam has not yet become
sufficiently strong either to wrest from the Communists control of any group in
which they had succeeded in gaining complete authority or to end decisively conflicts
in organizations such as the Nippon Nomin Kumiai where unresolved contention has long
existed. Nor can trade-union anti-Communism, particularly in its present
uncoordinated state, necessarily be expected to prevent a possible rise in the
Communist vote in the coming elections. More important is the potential threat to
the Communist ability to control the activities of mass organizations strategically
located in the Japanese economy -- an area of Communist activity of much greater
significance to long-term Kyōsanto prospects than Communist representation in the
Diet, which, even should 1t be increased in 1949, will remain insignificant. The
success achieved by the Commmists in combating this trend will depend to a very
important extent upon policies pursued by future Japanese goverrments. Should the
trend toward conservatism now apparent carry Japan to the extreme right and be
reflected in seriously disadvantageous revision of labor legislation and major
reversals of the reform policies carried on under the aegis of the occupation,
stock Communist arguments for proletarian unity in self-defense and for emphasis
on militant direct action as opposed to parliamentary procedures may appeal
increasingly to elements hitherto associated with the moderate left, particularly
in the absence of a marked improvement in economic conditions.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
PART ONE: THE JAPANESE PROLETARIAN MOVEENT IN THE
PRE-SURRENDER PERIOD
I. THE PROLETARIAN MOVEENT, 1918-1940
A. Major Characteristics
1. Introduction. The proletarian movemsent in Japan originated in the
industrialization of the 1870's but did not become of any great importance
until after World War I. Between 1918 and the passage of the universal manhood
suffrage law in l925 organized proletarian efforts were devoted largely to the
establishment of trade unions. The granting of universal manhood suffrage,
however, stimulated the organization of proletarian political parties that
2. Goverment Suppression. From its inception in the 1870's to the end
of World War II, the Japanese labor movement operated within a framework of
severe goverment repression of both its political and economic activities.
Major legislation as well as police regulations limited the content of union
and party programs and subjected their activities to constant police surveillance
and interference, their meetings to ebrupt termination, their organizations to
The existence of government suppression not only weakened the labor
movement directly but also had other important consequences on its development.
The weakmess of labor's legal position made it necessary for the movements that
represented its interests to devote considerable effort, in a period fairly late
in their development, to attempts to gain legal recognition for trade unions,
1. This paper is concerned with the political aspects of the proletarian movement
and will discuss the trade umions in that context only. It should be noted
that the political attitudes and activities of the Japanese trade unions have
at all times been similar to those of European rather than American labor
movements.
2.
For details on the content of laws and regulations restricting labor and left-
wing activity, see OIR-3440, The Problem of Civil Liberties in Japan, April 1,
1946, RESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
RESTRICTED
collective bargaining, and the right to strike. Hampered in this struggle by
repressive government policies, the trade umions were further weakened both in
terms of organization and of membership by being forced to fight simultaneously
for basic rights and the day-to-day interests of their members. This weakmese,
in turn, was reflected in the political parties that the trade unions supported.
Even more important, perhaps, for the development of the political movement
was the fact that at no time was labor free to express its program as fully,
vehemently or radically as it might desire. In establishing policy, therefore,
the political leadership of the prolotarian movement not only had to reconcile
conflicting elements within its own ranks and to compromise on certain issues in
order to make possible the broadening of its support, but also had to seek at all
times to stay within the limits of the legally allowable. Since government
interpretation of these limits tended to be variable and unpredictable,
proletarian party programs, in turn, tended to be vague at best and inconsistent
at woret.
3. Ideological Controversy. The ideological controversy common to labor
movements was thus, if anything, sharpened by government suppression. A union
of right-and-left-wing groups, for example, can always be expected to cause a loss
of ideological purity to both factions involved, and the attempt to prevent this
loss may ultimately produce controversy more bitter than that which the original
amalgamation was designed to ameliorate. In Japan, the natural hesitancy,
particularly on the part of the right wing, to enter into such potentially
disruptive alliances was heightened by fear, again generally on the part of right-
wing groups, that alliances would cause the government to extend to the movement
as a whole the very severe repressive measures that it had utilized against left-
wing groups. In consequence, emalgamation of proletarian groupa were frequently
regarded as a source of voakness rather than of strength; and, in this atmosphere,
ideological differences, reinforced by personal rivalries tended to flourish out
RESTRICTED

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
RESTRICTED
of all proportion to the variations between the doctrines that produced them.
From the end of World War I to the beginning of the period of Japanese
expansion on the Asiatic continent in l931, the major ideological split was
that between the Social Democrats and their supporters on the one hand and the
Commmists and their sympathizers on the other. During this period there were
frequent moves for the amalgamation of the various proletarian parties. Nost of
these moves failed partially or completely. The primary reason for their failure
seems to have been the controversy over admission of left-wing elements to the
coalition, but personal rivalries undoubtedly were a contributing factor. By
1932, however, the effectiveness of government suppression of the Commnist
movement and the incarceration or flight of most of its leaders hed considerably
reduced the importance of the controversy cver the Commmist issue. Meamwhile, a
new issue had arisen to take its place -- the controversy between those elements
in the proletarian movement that, in a period of heightening patriotic fervor,
veered in the direction of national socialism and those that attempted to remain
loyal to the principles of social democracy even while retreating under pressure
from their more radical position of the past. Although this controversy resulted
initially in the complete splitting-off of the most convinced national socialists
and the emalgamation of the remaining groups into the Shakai Taishuto, the
dominant proletarian party of the l930's, it ended in complote disumity and the
disappearence under government pressure of organized labor as an independent force.
B.
Proletarian Movements Before the Adoption of Univeraal Manhood Suffrage
1. The Initial Period. The introduction of an industrial economy in Japan
in the post-Restoration period brought with it the labor problems of the Wost.
It was not long before socialist organizations, trade unions, and strikos appeared.
Despite official disfavor, frequently manifesting itself in arrests, interruption
of meetings, suspension of publications, and dissolution of organizations, a number
of leaders emerged who devoted themselves to the organization of trade unions and
RESTRICTED

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
RESTRICTED
political groups.
Two conflicting philosophies were reflected in the activities of these leaders.
On one side stood the Socialists (with the line between reformists and revolutionaries
not yet as clearly drawn as it was to be after the Russian Revolution), who looked to
political as well as trade umion action for the solution of labor's problems. On the
other stood the syndicalists, who rejected political action in favor of strikes and
the seizure of power by the trade unions. Although, in the absence of either manhood
suffrage or a strongly organized working class movement, these questions of tactics
were scmowhat academic, the period prior to World War I did produce both leaders and
organizations whose subsequent activities were to be of considerable importanoe.
Among the leaders of the Socialist group were KATAYANA Sen,1 ABE Iso, KAGAWA Toyohiko,
and SUZUKI Bunj1.2 The Syndicalists were led by KOTOKU Donjiro,3 oSUGI Sakae, 4 and
ARAHATA Katsuzo.5 It was in this period that the first labor federation, the Yuaikai,
was organized by SuzukI Bunji. Syndicalist influence, which continued to be of some
importance for a short period after World War I, was reflected in the organization
of the Tokyo printers' union, the Shinyukai.
2. The Effects of World War I and the Russian Revolution
a. Introduction. As World War I, with its great stimulus to industrialization,
was promoting trade unioniem in Japan, the tendenoy for prices to outstrip wages was
leading to gemeral unrest. The radicaliem thus generated was both underlined and
stimulated by the Rice Riots in l9l8. Added to internal discontent was the external
stimulus of the Russian Revolution, which gave rise to hopes that similar movements
elsewhere might be equally successful. In the period that closed with the earthquake
1. Katayama fled to the United States in 1913 and in 1921 went to Moscow, where he
became a membor of the Executive Committee of the Commmist International, (ECCI)
a position that he retained until his death in 1933.
2.
Suzuki contimued to be one of Japan's most active proletarian leeders until nis
death shortly after the surrender.
3.
Originally a socialist; he and eleven of his followers were executed in l9ll for
plotting to overthrow the Mmperor.
4.
Murdered by a captain in the Kempei while in prison during the Tokyo earthquake
of 1923.
5.
Unless otherwise indicated, peraons mentioned in this text are atill active in
the proletarian movement. For brief biographies, see Appendix A.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
RESTRICTED
of l923, therefore, the trade union movement grew more militant, reflecting the
influence of radical leadership; interest in the possibility of forming a proletarian
political party continued; and the rise of extreme radicaliem was reflected in the
organization of the Commmist Party (Nippon Kyōsantō).
b. The progress of trade unionism. The early postwar years were characterized
by the vigorous developmont of new unions federated cn an industrial basis. Two of
the most important were the seamen's union, the Nippon Kaiin Kumiai, and the union of
workers employed in arsenals, state iron works, and a number of other government
enterprises, the Kangyo Rodo Sodome1. Both of these unions tended to be rather
conservative. Other unions formed in this period, however, were more radical, and
the Yuaikai itself came under the domination of left-wing elements. Under such
influence a new program was adopted in 1919 which, together with its economic
demands for freedom of association, an eight-hour day and a forty-eight-hour week,
the abolition of child and contract labor, the establishment of a minimum wage
system, equal pay for equal work, social insurance, accident compensation, and
arbitration of labor disputes, called also for universal suffrage, the revision
In l92l, after a brief period of alliance with the Syndicaliat Shinyükai, the
Yuaikai changed its name to the Dai Nippon Rōdō Sōdomei and continued to move toward
the left. At the organization's annual congress in l922 the demand for universal
suffrage was dropped, end in its place resolutions were adopted calling for
unrelenting struggle egainet the capitalist class, on the grounds that its interests
were incompatible with those of the workers; and for the emancipation of the working
class by the creation through trade union action of a new society based on freedom
and oquality.2
1.
International Labor Office (referred to hereefter as ILo), Industrial Labour
1 Japan. (C9reva, 1933), p. 100 n.
2.
Tbid, pp. 100. 101 n.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
RESTRICTED
c. The Organization of the Communist Party. By l92l Bolshevik successes in
Russia had convinced a number of Japanese radicals of the superiority of Commmmist
ideology to their previous beliefe, and a amall underground group was formed. Among
SANO Gaku, ARAHATA Katsuzo, YAMAKAWA Hitosh1, and TOKUDA Kiyoich1.
4
In l922 the Nippon Kyōsanto received the bleseings and instructions of the
Comintern at the sessions in Moscow and Petrograd of the First Congress of the Toilers
of the Far East. Representatives at the Far Eastern Congress held six months after
the Comintern's Third Congress reflected in their statements both the slight decline
in revolutionary optimism that had been apparent in the Comintern sessions and the
confidence that capitalist stabilization would be short-lived. The Japanese
delegates were instructed by the Comintern's representative that they must
participate with the working class in the common struggle for a completely
democratic political regime rather then seek immediately the dictatorship of the
prolotariat and a soviet government. But, said the Comintern representatives, this
"...does not meen that we are inviting it the working clasg to
compromise with the bourgeois parties, no matter what they call
themselves. This does not mean that we are inviting the working
class to give up playing an independent role. It means that, by
means of demonstratione, strikes, and, if necessary, armed rising,
it must conduct the struggle for the abolition of the plutocratic
and militarist reign in Japan. It means that it will get posseseion
of all the means of production in order to get rid of the coercion
of Japanese imperialiem and capitalism."
The interval between the political revolution and the proletarian revolution,
moreover, although it had been of seven monthe' duration in Russia, might in Japan
1. A leader of the party until October l928, when he was shot while resisting arreet
in Formosa.
2.
Arrested in 1929, died in pr1son December 1944.
3.
Imprisoned in 1923; upon his release left the Communist Party and unti! his
death in 1933 worked with various Socialist groups.
4.
For details regarding the earliest period of Communist orgenization in Japan,
see Japan Weekly Chronicle (henceforth referred to as JWC), June 14, 1923,
February 28, 1924, and March 5, 1925; Contemporary Japan, II (December 1933);
pp. 444 et seq.; "A Short History of the Japanese Revolutionary Movement,"
Part II, Chuen Chung IX, No. 30 (July 15, 1944).
5.
Proceedings of The First Congress of the Toilers of the Far East (Petrograd,
1922), pp. 172,188, 189.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
RESTRICTED
1ssue of The Communist International -. "Before the year is over Europe will be one
great Soviet Republio" --1 had not yet died away.
These counsels of violence were not lost upon the Japanese Government and in
June of 1923 ICHIKAWA Shoich1, WATANABE Masanosuke, TOKUDA Kiyo1chi, and a number
of others were arrested. The effects on the party organization of the arrests and
the further attacks on the Left that followed the earthquake were disastrous. For
some years thereafter, those who had escaped imprisonment, as well as those
subsequently released, met in Shanghai and Moscow in attempts to draw up plans for
the reorganization of the party. One group, known as the Rōnoha (Labor-Farmer
Group), led by YAMAKAWA Hitosh1 and including ARAHATA Katsuzo and TOKUDA Kiyoichi,
urged complete dissolution and concentration of strength on the organization of
legal trade unions and political groups.? The so-called Yamakawa right-wing
deviation caused considerable dissension in the party, which in consequence, was
not reorganized until instructions had been received from the Comintern in 1926.3
Despite the internal weakmess of the party, however, the Communists were already
making their influence felt in the legal working-class organizations; in the eta
This Communist penetration of non-Communist organizations was to have important
effects on the attempt to organize a single proletarian political party.
C. Proletarian Parties Between 1926 and 1932
1.
Attempte to Organize a Proletarian Party
a.
The drawing of the line between Right and Left. One of the major
1.
The Communist International, I (Honceforth referrod to as CI) No. 1 (May 1919),
p. 25.
2.
"A Short History of the Japanese Revolutionary Movement", Part II, loc. c1.
JWC, May 8, 1930. p. 489.
3.
JWC, May 8, 1930: p. 489; CI, XIII, No. 10 (0ctober 1936), p. 1376.
14.
Organized by MATSUMOTO Jiichiro to combet prejudice against Japan's depressed
casts, the eta. See OIk-224, The Eta: A Persocuted Group in Japan, February 27,
1942, RESTRICTED.
5.
See roports of KATAYAMA Sen to the July 1922 seseion of the ECCI in
International Press Correepondence II (henceforth referrod to as Imprecorr),
No. 62 (July ?8, 1922), p. 470, and to the Fourt) Congress of the Comintern in
Abridged Report of Meetings (London, 1932, p. 80.)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
RESTRICTED
political consequences of the wave of reaction that followed the earthquake of 1923
was a shift in the control of the Dai Nippon Rodō Sodomei from the Left to the Right.
In 1924, under the guidance of SuzukI Bunj1, whose original position of leadership
had been undermined by the Left in the period from 1920 to 1923, the Sodāmei,
adopted a now program. Rejecting the underlying philosophy of acute and unrelenting
class conflict in the program of l922, the new policy called upon members to replace
their nogative attitude toward policies of social reform by "a positive attitude and
an effort to utilize such policies." The central committee declared that although
it had "...no erpectation that the complete emancipation of the people can be
obtained through a bourgeois parliament," the workers "must nevertheless endeavor
to acquire such partial profit as is possible by exercising effectively the right
to voto, after the introduction of universal manhood suffrage."1 Finally, the
Sōdomei, reversed its position with regard to the International Labor Organization
(IIO),2 calling for support of the agency that, in 1922, it had denounced as an
instrument of capitalist suppression.3
This move to the right met with considerable opposition. In April 1923 the
first split in the Sodomei occurred with the formation of a left-wing group, the
Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Hyōgikai. The new group which had a membership of 10,778 as
opposed to the 19, 460 mambers of the Sōdāme1, 4 attacked its parent body as "...
betraying the working clase by drifting away from the spirit of the labor movement
and...conciliating the capitalists."5 In its statement of principles it declared
that it aimed "...to resist the capitalists' exploitation by means of organization
and struggle; to maintain and improve working conditions; to secure employment and
1. Trans-Pacific (henceforth referred to as TP), April 5, 1924, P. 4.
2.
IL0, op. cit., p. 101.
3.
Inprecorr II, No. 104 (November 29, 1922), pp. 838, 839.
4.
πo, op. o1t., p. 102.
5.
HARADA Shuichi, Labor Conditions in Japan (New York, 1928), pp. 199, 200.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
RESTRICTED
the promotion of the workere' standard of living; to emancipate the working clase;
and, to establish a just and rational social life."1 In its published principles,
the radicalism of the Hyogikai was confined to an emphasis on the class struggle,
but in actual fact, until ita dissolution in l928, it was affiliated with the
Comaunist-organized Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat,? was consiatently
supported in Communist publications, and numbered among 1ts leaders, until his
death in 1928, the Communist WATANABE Masanosuke.3
The formation of the Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Hyogikai had been inspired originally
by the expulsion from the Sodomei of unions believed to be under Communist control.
This same expulsion produced still another split in the ranks of the Sodomei. In
October l925, elements opposed to the expulsion but not sufficiently far to the
Left to wish to attach themselves to the Hyogikai formed a smaller centrist
federation, the Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Sōrengo.4
Despite these splits, however, the existence of fairly large unions such as
the peasants' group, the Nippon Nomin Kumiai, umaffiliated with any of the
federations, there was considerable umanimity of sentiment within the proletarian
movement in favor of organizing a political party.
b. The stimulus of manhood suffrage. The potential importance of a
proletarian political party was underlined after the earthquake, when the Yamamoto
government announced its intention of introducing a universal manhood suffrage bill
in the Diet.5 By the time that the bill had become law in March 1925, nogotiations
were already under way among the various proletarian groups. The atmosphere of
these nogotiations was vitally affected, however, by the passage in April of the
1.
Ibid., p. 200.
2.
Inprecorr, IX, No. 33 (July 12, 1929), p. 718.
3.
Inprecorr, VIII, No. 85 (November 30, 1928), p. 1615.
4.
JWC, July 24, 1930, p. 112; IL0, op. cit., p. 102; Kennoth Cologrove,
"Labor Parties in Japan", American Political Science Review, XXIII, No. 2
(May 1929), p. 342.
5. Colegrove, op. cit., p. 343.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
RESTRICTED
same yethe Peace Preservation Law, which defined as a criminal offense the
organizif or participation in societies having for their object the alteration
of natility or the negation of the system of private property. Thus to the
normal d of groups accustomed to operating under restrictions was added
still fistimulus to make noncommittal statements and to avoid association
with grigarded by the authorities as under Commumist influence. Despite the
unanimithe desire to form a proletarian party, therefore, there was
considemifference of opinion as to what elements should be admitted into
such a pu
Lesp in the organization of a proletarian party was taken by the
peasantan, the Nippon Nōmin Kumia1, headed by SUGIYAMA Motojiro. The
various tions and independent unions participated in the negotiations.
Also imph were the activities of such intellectuals as OYAMA Ikuo, FUSE
1
Tatauji,Taunego, ABE Iso, and KAGAWA Toyohiko.
Late in 1925 preparatory
meetings,leld under the leadership of the Nippon Nomin Kumiai and the
Sodomei, le controveray over membership and program reached an acute stage:
the Leftpsented by the Hyogikai, calling for the nationalization of land,
the abol f the House of Peers and the Genro (Elder Statesmen), the
independi Korea and the colonies, and the admission to the new party of
various; groups, including the Suiheisha.
2
Despite the professed willingness
of the B: to compromise on the radicaliem of its program, 3 the Sodome1 withdrew
on the eihe inauguration of the new party. Thereupon the Hyogikai, wishing
to avoid cusation that its inclusion in the party was the source of disruption,
also wit The Nōmin Rodoto organized in December 1925, therefore represented
1.
JWC,1, 1924, p. 711.
2.
CI, 1.(new series, no date), p. 70
3.
CI, 119 (new series, no date), p. 107.
L
RESTRICTED
口
日

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.95)
-11-
RFSTRICTED
only the center proup. The Nippon Nōmin Kumiei was its nucleus, and it had a
trade-union membership representing about 140,000 workers and peasants.
1
Despite
the moderation of its program, which called for parliamentary action to achieve
social insurance, protection of tenant rights, the reduction of ermaments, and
le al recornition for trade union activities, the new party was dissolved by the
rovernment a few hours after its formation.
2
c. The Pōdō Nōminto. In March l926, again under the auspices of the
Nippon Nōmin Kumini, a second proleterian party the Rodo Nominto, was organized
under the presidency of SUGIYAMA Motojiro. The party was supported by the
centrist Ninnon Fodo Kimini Soreno and by the Sodomei, as well as by the
conservative se men's roup, the Kaiin Kumiai, and the arsenal workers organized
in the Kangyō Rōdo Sōdōmei. In deference to the right-wing groups, the Hyōgikai
and other leftist or/aniz:tions were excluded, and the platform was moderate in
tone.
The Rodō Nominto adonted as its aim the political, economic, and social
emancipation of the proleturiat by legitimate means. Its political program
called for the enfranchisement of men and women over twenty; the repeal of acts
and repulations restricting the working class movement; reduction of armaments
●
and the democratic reoreanization of the army and navy; popular control of
diplomacy; end atate compensation of those subjected tc false charges and
unlowful detention. Its economic program called for establishment of the rights
of association, strike, and collective barpoining: protection and expansion of
the legal riphts of ten nt farmers: abolition of taxes on daily necessities and
edontion of pro ressive tuxes on property: adoption of  minimum wage act, social
insurence, and an eight-hour day: end lecuate con ensatfon for the fami lies of
7.
Coloprove, op. cit., p. ph.
c. December 1, 1925, pp. -4? ud 747.
FSTRTOTEHD

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
RESTRICTED
men in the armed services. Its social program called for the abolition of
discrimination against subjoct races; prohibition of traffic in women and of the
employment of women and children in night, underground, and other dangerous work;
abolition of legal discrimination against women and of restrictions on their
education; and state defrayment of all erpenses for compulsory education and
1
focational guidance.
Harmony in the Rodo Nominto was short-lived, however, since elements within
the party refused to imore permanently the excluded Left. Thus, soon after the
inauguration of the new party, n group within the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai proposed
that the Hyōgikai, the Suiheisha, and three other left-win/ roups be admitted.
The immediate result wos a split in the Nōmin Kumini. The conservative win
formed new peasant union federation, the Zen Nippon Nōmin Kumici Dōmei, and 
new political party, the Nippon Nominta. which temporarily discarded the policy
C
of peasent collaboration with urben workerr.
After considerable controversy the Forces oying dmission of the left-
wing sroups groups prevadled, but the consecuence of their admission was the
withdrawal in October and November of the Sād mei, the Kaiin Kmiai, the Kenuyā
Rodō Sōdámei, and the Nipi on Rōdō Kumia! Sorengo. Out of this withdrawal developed
two additional proletarien perties, the first of whicn to be oryanized was the
Shakai Minshutō, led by ABE Iso and KiGawa Toyohike and supported by the Sōdāmei.
the Kaiin Kumiai, and the Kengyā Rōdō Sōdōmei.
dissatisfied with the conservatism of the
Shakai Minshutō's program and also with the Södomei's well-entrenched leadership,
seceded from both organizations. In December, he established a new federation,
1.
Harada, op. cit., pp. 208, 200.
2.
JWC, Apr11 8, 1926, p. 414 and Ju1y 8, 1026, p. 40.
3.
Leader of the Japaneee Miners' Uni, who beceme increasingly nationelist in
his approach and ultimately sained control of the Shakai Taishuto. He died
in 1940.
RESTR ICTED

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
RESTRICTED
the Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Dōme1, with a membership of 22,000, almost equal to that of
the Sōdōme1.
Aso also organized a new political party, the Nippon Rōnōtō, which
was supported by the Sōrengō and also by a group that seceded from the Rōdō Nōmintō
under the leedership of SUGTYAMA Motojiro.
Thus at the end of 1926 there existed four proletarian parties, each of which
was supported by one or more trade union federations: on the right, the Shakai
Minshutō, led by ABE Iao, KAGAWA Toyohiko and KATAYAMA Tetsu; in the center, the
Nippon Nominto, led by HIRANO Rikizo, and the Nippon Rōnōtō, led by ASO Hisashi,
SUGIYAMA Motojiro, and KONO Mitsu; on the left, the Rōdō Nōmintō, led by OYAMA Ikuo
and MIZUTANI Chosaburo. The Rōdō Nōmintō was supported and strongly influenced, if
not controlled, by the Communists, who at the seme time were seeking to reestablish
their own illegal organization.
?. The Reorganization of the Nippon Kyōsantō. By the end of 1926, after a
number of meetings in China, Russia, and Japan, the Nippon Kyōsantō succeeded in
overcoming YAMAKWA Hitoshi's right-wing deviations and in reorganizing itself.
2
This reorganization and the accompanying secession of Yamakawa's Rōnāha followers
did not end internal dissension. In the course of the controversy over Yamakawaism,
ideological leadership had been assumed by FUkUMoTo Kazuo, under whose influence
extreme leftism began to dominate the party. This development in turn inspired
controveray at home and Commintern interest abroad, and in 1927 Fukumoto, WATANABE
Mesanosuke, TOKuDA Kyuichi, and other leaders were summoned to Moscow. As a result
of discussions with leaders of the Communist International, Fukumoto admitted the
error of his ways; ond in July 1927 the Fxecutive Committee of the Communist
1.
I10, op. cit., p. 102.
2.
The Ronōha continued to exist thereafter as a loosely organized group of
anti-Communists leftists; some were active in proletarian parties or trade
unions, while others gave intellectual support to the proletarian movement.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
RESTRICTED
International (EccI) adopted its Theses on the Situation in Japan and the Tasks of
the Communist Party, which was to guide the party until 1932.
1
As the ECCI analyzed the situation, there existed in Japan the prerequisites
both for a bourgeois democratic revolution and for the rapid transformation of
such a revolution into a socialist revolution. Thus the theses declared:
"The struggle for the democratization of the Japanese State, the
liquidation of the monarchy, the removal of the present ruling
cliques from the government, in a country which reached such a
high level of trustification, will...inevitably transform from
a struggle against feudal survivals into a struggle against
capitaliam itself. The bourgeois democratic revolution of Japan
will very rapidly grow into a socialist revolution because...
the contemporary Japanese State, with all its feudal attributes
and relics, is the most concentrated expression of Japanese
capitalism embodying a whole series of its most vital nerves,
and & blow at which will alsg be a mighty blow to the capitalist
system of Japan as a whole.
Although economic conditions in Japan might be expected to lead directly to
revolution, the ECCI declared, the ideological backwardness of the Japanese
workers and peasants was a tremendous obstacle to revolutionary developments.
Under both rightist and leftist leadership, moreover, the Nippon Kyōsantō had
failed to deal adequately with this problem. To meet the problem, it was
necessary that two objectives be kept in mind. The principal and ultimate
objective of the Communist Party was to establish the dictatorship of the
proletariat. But it was also necessary that the Communists participote in the
daily struggle of the working class. The rightists, under Yemakawa, had thought
only in terms of the second task end opportunisticelly urged dissolution of the
party and concentration on the orgenization of trade unions and a brond workers'
and peasants' party; the leftists, under Fulkmoto, had gone to the other extreme
and, in consequence, had isolated the Communists from the proletarian mass
organizations.
1.
"A Short History of the Japanese Revolutionary Movement." Part II,
loc. cit., JWC, December 13, 1929, p. 623.
2.
Inprecorr, VIII, No. 12 (January 12, 1928), p. 51.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
RESTRICTED
In the future, the EccI declared, the Nippon Kyosants was to preserve its 
revolutionury perspective and its absolute independence, both ideologically and
organizationnlly, but it was also to regard the proletarian organizations a the
reservoir from which it would draw new membership and as the transmission belt
that would connect the vanguard of the working class with the masses. The
struggle against the opportunist and reformist leaders of these organizations
was to be carried on in such a way as to avoid estranging the leftist elements
within the trade unions and the proletarian parties; however, by fighting within
these organizations and exposing their leaders, the Communists were to win over
their members. In concrete terms, the Communists were to seek to bring about a
merger between the Nippon Rōnōtō and the Rodo Nōminto. The latter, the ECCI
declared, was already under strong Communist influence.
In conclusion, the EcCI laid down the immediate program for Japanese
Communists. In the international field, they were to fight against the menace
of international war, against intervention in China, and for the defense of the
Soviet Union and the independence of Japanese colonies. In the political sphere,
they were to call for the abolition of the monarchy, the dissolution of the Diet,
suffrage for all men and women over eighteen, and freedom of speech, press,
assembly, and association. Their economic demands were to include an eight-hour
day, unemployment insurance, annulment of anti-labor laws, establishment of a
progressive income tax, and the confiscation of land owned by the Emperor, the
1
government, religious organizations, and the landlords.
3. The Proletarian Parties and the General Election of 1928
a.
The parties and their platforms. The four legal proletarian parties
that had been set up by the end of 1926 -- the rightist Shakai Minshutō, the
centrist Nippon Nōmintō and Nippon Rōnōto, and the leftist Rōdō Nōmintō
1. Inprecorr, VIII, No. 12 (January 12, 1928), pp. 51-54.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
RESTRICTED
continued in existence until the l928 national elections despite occasional efforts
within one or another of the parties to bring about emalgamation. The failure of
these attempts was due less to differences in published programs than to constant
interjection of the Communist 1ssue and to personal rivalries.
Despite. the fact that control passed from the Right and Center to the Left
between the time that the Rodo Nominto platform was drawn up end the time that the
party organization solidified, this party retained its original program throughout
1
the period of its existence.
The program adopted by the Nippon Rōnōtō was almost
identical with that of the Rōdō Nōmintō. It differed only in that it dropped the
latter party's demands for the abolition of taxes on daily necessities, amendment
of the factory act, and prohibition of traffic in women, while adding demends for
the abolition of military training, the esteblishment of local autonomy, the
reform of the postal system and the cooperative association system, the establish-
ment of a banking system for the working class, government price-fixing for staple
foods, government protection of industries producing raw materials, abolition of
unjust discrimination, extension of the work of the Employment Bureau, and public
2
administration of medical treatment.
The other center party, the Nippon Nominto,
emphasized the solution of agricultural problems through parliamentery ection,
The Shakai Minshutō program was not widely different from the programs of the
Left and Center, although it was more conservative in its statements on militarism
and declared that the Shakai Minshutō opposed "the radical parties which ignore the
processes of social evolution."
Politically, it edvocated universal suffrege;
reform of the parliamentary system, repeal of the leace Preservation, Peace Police,
1.
See supra, pp. 11 f.
2.
Hareda, op. cit., pp. 214, 215.
3.
Colegrove, op. cit., p. 349.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
- 17 -
RESTRICTED
and Press Laws; and reform of local administration. Its economic demands included
the establishment of progressive taxation on property, income, and inheritance; the
abolition of indirect taxes on articles of daily necessity; and extension of
provisions for a banking system for popular use. In the agricultural field, the
party demanded land reform and the protection of the rights of cultivators. In the
labor field, it demanded the right to organize and strike; establishment of e
minimum wage system; reform of the Factory, Mine, und Seamen's Acts; ratification
of treaties sirmed at the IIo Conferences; and establishment of protective legislation
for workers in the building trades and for salaried workers. Other important
provisions called for socialization of important industries; abolition of legal and
economic discriminetions against women; unemployment, health, old age, and accident
insurance; extension of fucilities for medical treatment; and fundamental reform of
1
the educational system.
b. Election results and Diet activities. The position of the proletarian
parties in a national election was a weak one at best. In addition to the usual
restrictive measures, the partisan nctivities of the House Ministry were directed
against all parties in opposition to the government in power, but particularly
against the Left. Moreover, the financially weak proletarian parties were uneble
to compete either in legitimate expenditures or in heavy bribery with the wealthy
major parties. In the 1928 election these inevitable weaknesses were reinforced
by the disadvantages of disunity. Eighty-five candidates were nominated by the
four proletarian parties: eight were elected. In at least sixteen districts, no
agreements were made between eny of the proletarian parties, and labor candidates
opposed each other. In the first district of Kenagawa Prefecture, the Shakai
I
Minshutō and the Rōdō Nōminto ench put forth a cendidate. Singly neither had
sufficient votes to be elected, but their combined vote was greater than that of
any other cendidate in the district. Similr tactics were followed elsewhere.
1. Harada, op. cit., pp. ?1?-214.
RESTR ICIED

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
RESTRICTED
It has been estimated that had the proletarian parties refrained from opposing
1
each other, they might have doubled their representation.
The four major
proletarian parties and three small local parties representing the proletarian
interest received a popular vote of 49l,997, 4.7 peroent of the total vote. The
highest popular vote of 192,580 went to the Rodo Nominto, which, however, won only
two seats as compared with the four seats won by the Shakai Minshutō, which
received a popular vote of 128,880. The Nippon Rōnōtō, with a popular vote of
86,795, obtained one seat, while the Nippon Nōmintō, securing 46,460 votes, failed
to return any of its candidates. An eighth proletarian representative, however,
was provided by the success of a small independent proletarian party in the second
district of Fukuoka Prefecture.
The rules under which the lower house of the Diet operated rendered it
extremely difficult for a group as small as that which represented the proletarians
after the 1928 election even to have a voice in the proceedings of the house. The
position of the proletarian representatives was, however, somewhat improved by the
fact that the major opposition party, the Minseitō, had elected 2l6 representatives
as compared with the 218 members representing the covernment party, the Seiyūkai.
In consequence, the votes of the independents -- proletarians and others -- assumed
greater importance then might otherwise have been the case. Under these circumstances,
the advantages of united action on the part of the proletarian parties were obvious,
and a joint committee of the proletarian parties was formed. Despite constant
disagreement as to the extent to which the proletarian representatives, should
cooperate with the bourgeois parties, the proletarinn parties acted together for
the most part and succeeded to some extent in using the Diet as a forum before
which they could present their demands for civil liberties, workers' rights, and
social legislation. The position of the two members elected under the auspices
of the Rōdō Nōmintō, however, was rendered somewhat anomalous by the fact that,
1. Colegrove, op. cit., p. 337.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.96)
-19-
RESTRICTED
before the Diet sessions opened, their party had been dissolved by the government.
1
4.
Proletarian Party Splits and Reorganization, 1928-1931
a.
Introduction. In the period between 1928 and 1931 Japan experienced
an economic relepse culminating in 1930 and 1931 when Japan suffered acutely from
the world depression. The impetus that might otherwise have been given to left-
wins activity by widespread unennloyment and economic distress was to some extent
countered by the incrersincly repressive mensures of the government and by
continued disunity in the proletcrien c:mp. It was not until July 1931 that this
trend was reversed with consolidation of the legal left-wing roups into two major
narties. Shortly thererfter, however, the Menchurian Incident in September 1931
created a new source of controversy within the proletarian movement.
b. The dissolution of the Rodo Nominto. Government dissolution of the
Rodo Nōmintō in April l928 was eccompanied by similar action against the leftist
labor federation, the Nippon Rōdō Kimini Hyōrikai, and a number of other groups.
2
At the same time a systematic police campnirn against suspected Communists and
their sympathizers was inaururated. Accordin to one estimate, this campaign
resulted in a thousand arrests in 1928.
3
Although many of those arrested were
not genuine revolutionaries, but stidents and intellectuals who had teken too
strong on interest in social problems, a lrge proportion of Communist leadership
was also jailed as a result cf the police compairm. Communists arested in 1928
ond 1929 included FUKU4OTO Kezuo, ICHIKAWA Shoichi, KASUGA ShoJiro, SHIGA YOshic,
TOKUDA Kyuichi, SANo Gaku, und NABFY Al Sadekichi. Finally, by means of an
emergency ordinance, the Tenake povernment in June 1o28 revised the Peace
Preservation Lew, drestically increasin/ the venalties for leadership of or
membership in organizations havin: s thein ot jective the alteration of the
1
nationa? polity.
1.
Colegrove, op. cit., pp. r-35?.
2.
JWC, Apr11 19, 108, p. 461.
3.
Tb1d., November 14, 1920, p. 51?.
14.
Tbid., June 28, 1928, p. 823.
RESTRICTFD

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -
RESTRICTED
Increasingly repressive government policies further complicated the problem
of reorganizing the suppressed party and its trade union federation, the members
of both of which were already divided as to their future course. The extreme
Left of the former Hyogikai, insisting on maintaining its principles, established
an organizing committee knowm as the Zenkyō, which operated in a semi-underground
fashion and was allied to the Communist Party. Other former members of the
Hyōgikai who wished to continue their activities on a legal basis finally succeeded
in 1930 in organizing a new federation, the Nippon Rōdō Sō-Hyōgikai.
Meanwhile, attempts to reorganize the Rōdō Nōmintō were encountering similar
difficulties, since its members vere unable to agree among themselves regarding
the principles upon which any new organization would be based. An initial attempt
to reorgenize by setting up a committee under the leaderaship of OYAMA Ikuo for the
orgenization of a new party was frustrated by immediate government dissolution of
the conmittee.
Some months thereafter, one group within the old Rōdō Nōmintō,
inspired in part by the desire to form a fairly moderate party and in part by
antagonism toward Oyema, broke with their former associates and established a
new perty, the Musan Taishūtō, under the leadership of SUZUKI Moseburo and KURODA
Hisao.
C.
The formation of the Ninpon Taishūtō. While the left-wing of the
proletariat entered upon a period of disintegration, the center grcups appeared
to be drawing closer together. In December 198 the Nippon Fōnōtō, under the
leadership of ASo Hisashi and SUGIYAMA Motojiro, the Nippon Nōmintō, under the
leadership of HIR No Rikizo, and the Mugan Taishūtō
omalgamated to form the
The alliance proved unstable, however, and within six months dissengion
within the new party had reached such a high pitch that it could be resolved
only by expulsion of dissident Nippon Nōmintō and Musan Taishūtō elements. These
1.
Ibid., January 3, 1929, p. 18.
2.
JWC, December 27, 1928.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
- 21 -
RESTRICTED
elements, led once again by Suzuki and Kuroda, formed still another party, the Tokyo
Musantō. The Nippon Taishūtō, then sought to affiliate with the Shakei Mina: utō.
When this attempt failed many of the Taishuto's members joined the Shakai Minshutō
1
as individuals.
d.
The reorconization of the Rodo Nominto. The effects upon the prospect
of general proletarian unific tion of the inability of the Nippon Taishutō to
maintain unity vithin its owm ranks were to some decree counteracted by the
reorganization of the Fodo Rominto in October l929. In establishing the now party,
generally knowm s the Shin Pōnōtō, OYAlA Ikuo its lender, announced that Communists
would be excluded nd that the perty henceforth would work entirely alon: legitimate
political lines. The Shin Rōnotō's platform2 differed little from that adopted
by the Rōdō Nōmintō in lo26, but the new party's disavowal of Communist support
brought it closer to the moderate camp and removed one barrier to unification of
the proletarian porties.
e.
The position of the Nippon Kyōsantō. As a result of the organization
of the Shin Rōnōtō, the Communists foimd themselves with little prospect of
capturing or even influencing any of the legal proletarian parties. Tendencies
within the Ninpon Kyōsantō toward abendonment of illegal action continued in
spite of the 1927 theses;3
nevertheless, in the official pronouncements of the
party, the attack on social democracy, whether of the Right or the Left, increased
greatly in intensity.
Precedents for unrelenting attack on Socialists of both the Right and the
Ieft had already been established at the Sixth World Congress of the Comintern in
August and September of 1928. Although hostility between the Communists and
reformist Socialists of all varieties had always been strong it was not until the
1.
Ibid., May 23, 1929, p. 521; May 30, 1929, p. 625; January 2, 1930, p. 112.
2.
Tbid., October 3, 1929, p. 373.
3.
Inprecorr, X, No. 4 (January 23, 1930), p. 72.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
- 22 -
RESTRICTED
Sixth Congress that this hostility was codified into a statement of policy that
retained its validity for Communists everywhere until shortly before the Seventh
World Congress in July and August of 1935.
In the various theses adopted at the Sixth Congress, social democrats were
defined as the leading enemies and betrayers of the proletariat. It was declared
that only by ruthless struggle againat socicl democrats would the proletariat be
able to fulfill its historic mission of throwing off the yoke of imperialism and
establishing the dictatorship of the proletariat. Social democratic contentions
that fasciem is the principal enemy of the working class vere characterized as
merely a blind:
"Social democracy endeavors to divert the masses from the main question
of the clnss struggle and to turn their attention to arguments as to
the forms which their exploitation should take--to questions such es,
which is the better form of bourgeois dictatorship: Parlinmentary or
extra-parliamentary....Social Democracy will maneuver...on the question
of its seeming struggle with Fascism, blurring by all methods the basic
fact that Fascism and Social Fascism social democracy are two aspects
of one and the same bulwark of bourgeois dictatorship....The Social
Democrats in order to deceive the masses deliberately, proclaim that
the chief enemy of the working class is Fascism, in order thereby to
divert attention from the question of the struggle against the dictator-
ship of capitalism in general, to idealize the democratic form of the
latter and to create among the workers the impression that they must
struggle for the 'democratic' forms of their exploitation and against
the Fascist forme."1
These theses declared that both the right-and left-wings of the social democrats
played important parts in deceiving the workers on behalf of capitalist imperialism:
"...the right wing...avowedly counter-revolutionary, is essential for
negotiating and maintaining direct contact with the bourgeoisie; the
left wing is essential for the subtle deception of the workers. While
playing with pacifist and at times even with revolutionary phrases,
'left wing' social democracy in practice acts against the workers,
particularly in acute and critical situations,...and is, therefore,
the most dangerous faction in the social democratic parties."2
1.
CI, VIII, No. 11-12, p. 339.
2.
The Program of the Communist International, 6th Congress (New York, 1929), p. 22.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
RESTRICTED
The anplications to Javan of the decisions of the Sixth World Congress were
el borated on in the Tenth Plenum of the Executive Committee of the Communist
International of July I 2) nd in the Resolutions of the Western European Bureau
of the Comintern on the Communist Party of Japan in January and February of 1930.
At the Tenth Plenum. the Jronnese delernte declared:
"In our country, the social democrats have become quite openly an
appendage of the bourgeoisie. They do not conceal any longer their
hostility to the Commmist Party. While the Right social-democrats
openly declare their readiness to defend 'His Majesty' the Emperor,
the 'Left' are concealing the real character of the Mikado....The
Right social-democrata are openly betraying the workers during
industrial struggles and are delivering them over to the bourgeoisie.
Although the 'Left' social democrats indulge in revolutionary
phraseology, they play in reality a similar role as the Right.
Thus 'Left' social-democrats are becoming more and more counter-
revolutionary."1
Six months later, just prior to the Japanese elections, the Comintern's
Western European Burenu launched  bitter attack both against Japanese Socialists
and against the prononents of le lism within the ranks of the Nippon Kyōsantō.
"The chief danger to the revolutionry movement..." they declared, "are the
liquidators of all shades, from Oyoma and his consorts to the inner-party
opposition."2
In contrast to their tactics in the 1926 elections, the Japanese
Communists were not to "...enter into :ny agreements with the reformist and sham-
Communist groupings of the type of Shin Fonōtō but must conduct an irreconcilable
fight against them." Instead, they were to seek a united front from below.
Wherever possible they were to organize legal roups, to nominate cendidates
whom the Communists might support. Where this course was impossible, they were
Intensified insistence upon extreme radical doctrine was demonstrated in the
statement drawn up by the Western European Bureau with regard to the aims of
the Communists in the forthcoming elections.
1.
Inprecorr IX, No. 51 (September 17, 1929), p. 1073.
2.
Inprecorr X, No. 4 (January 23, 1930), p. 72.
3.
Inprecorr X, No. 7 (February 13, 1930), p. 120.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
- 24 -
RESTRICTED
"These aims were to be: "The ruthless exposure of the social-fascist
deceit that peaceful Parliamentary reform of existing fascist
reformist rule is possible by means of bourgeois democracy:....The
revolutionary preparation of the masses for the overthrow of the
moncrchy, the dictatorship of trust capital ond feud 1 landed
property, as well as for the confiscation without compensation of
the big londed estates; the mobilization of the masses under the
slogan of the struggle for the revolutionary workers end peasants
coverment on the besis of soviets under the slogen of the
revolutionery united front from below of the workers and peasants;
the strucgle against richt and left social-fascists and pseudo-
Communists and against attempts to liquidate the party and adopt
it to pseudo-fascist legality; the strugcle for the complete
independence of Korea, Formosa, and China; and the strugcle
gainst the new imperialist world slaughter which is being
prepared and for the defense of the Soviet Union."1
As partial demands that would serve to draw to the party the support of
workers less receptive to Communist doctrines, the Comunists were to call for a
seven-hour day, incrensed wages, social and unemployment insurance to be financed
by the capitalists end administered by the unemployed, abolition of taxes on the
workers and peasants, abolition of repressive laws, and the immediate withdrawal
2
of Japanese troops from Korea, Formosa, and China.
f. The election of 1930 and the drive toward unification of the proletarian
parties. Except for the somewhat changed position of the Communists, the election
of 1930 was, for the proletarian parties, & repetition with some modification of the
experience of 1928. Four national proletarian parties--the Shakai Minshutō, the
Nippon Taishūtō, the Shin Fōnōtō, and the Zenkoku Minshūtō (which had recently been
formed by a group seceding from the Shakai Minshutō) -- and a number of local
Of these, five were elected -- three
fewer than in l928, despite the fact that the total proletarian vote was greater
by about 50,000 than it had been in 1928.
Two of the successful candidates,
NISHIO Suehiro and KATAYAMA Tetsu, represented the Shaka1 Minshutō; two, MATSUTANI
Yojiro and ASAH/RA Kenzo, represented the Nippon Taishūtō; and one, OYAMA Ikuo,
represented the Shin Rōnōtō.5
As after the 1928 elections, the proletarian parties
1.
Ibid., pp. 119-120.
2.
Ibid., p. 120.
3.
JWC, February 6, 1930, p. 129.
4.
Tbid., March 27, 1930, p. 289.
5.
TP, February 27, 1930, pp. 12, 13.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
RESTRICTED
succeeded in setting up a joint committee to coordinate their Diet activities but,
in consequence of their weakness, played no very significant role.
1
The 1930 election did, however, demonstrate once agein the consequences of
proletarian disunity. Whether this demonstration in itself was sufficient to
remove the barriers to unity was another question. As in the past, abstract
sentiment was in favor of unification, but, in practice, both personal and
ideological differences made a united party extremely difficult of achievement.
A major stumbling block was the opposition of the Shakai Minshutō to association
with the Shin Pōnōtō. Personal rivalries between the leadership of the Shin Ronōtō
and that of the Nippon Taishūto also served to postpone the attainment of unity.
The first important step tovord a united proletarian party was taken in
April 1930 shortly after the election when the Nippon Taishūtō, the Tokyo Musantō,
the Zenkoku Minshūtō, and ten local parties amalgamated to form the Zenkoku Taishūtō.
At the same time, the trade union federations that had previously supported the
component parties joined together in the Zenkoku Rōdō Kumiai Dōmei. The program
of the Zenkoku Taishūto differed little from that of its predecessors. In the
political field, it called for the adoption of universal suffrage; abolition of
repressive lows; complete freedom of speech, press, and association; and
opposition to imperalist war. In the economic field, it demanded legal establishment
of the right to orgenize, strike, and engage in collective bargaining; a minimum
wage law; an eight-hour day: prohibition of the employment of women and children
at night or in dangerous trades: protection of workers in dangerous industries;
and the passage of umemoloyment and social insurance legislation that would place
the financial burden unon cunital nd the coverrment.3
Having obtained at lenst partial unification, the Zenkoku Taishūtō next
directed its efforts toward bringing about a merger with the two remaining major
proletarian parties, the Shakai Minshuto and the Shin Rōnōtō. A majority of the
1.
JWC, Apri1 24, 1930, p. 418: May 1, 1930, p. 453.
2.
Tbid., July 31, 1930.
3.
Tbid., July 31, 1930, p. 142.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
-26 -
RESTRICTED
leaders of the Shakai Minshuto, however, continued to oppose emalgamation with the
Shin Ronoto, althouch they expressed themselves as being more than willing to
1
amalgamate with the Zenkoku Taishūtō alone.
Finally, in July 1931, the Shin Rōnōtō, the Zenkoku Taishuto, and a
corsiderable percentage of the membership of the Shakai Minshutō set up a new
party, the Zenkoku Rōno Taishūtō. The new party ran into immediate difficulties:
one revolving around the question of apportioning offices omong members of the
constituent groups,2 another arising from police objections to certain provisions
in the party platform. The issues of the composition of the party executive
and the method of denling with the police order to delete provisions regarding
the abolition of the Privy Council cnd the House of Peers, the right of the
militery to direct appeal to the throne, distribution of land to the peasants,
complete disarmament, and other objectionable phrases were disputed along
The program of the new party was drawn up in considerable detail and
contained many of the provisions called for in the platforms of its predecessors.
The political section of the prorem included demands for suffrage for all men
and women over eighteen, abolition of repressive laws and the special police
organizations set up for their enforcement, radical reform of the central
administrative organization, popular election of governors and mayors and
an increase in the powers of prefectural assemblies, and abolition of the
peerage. In the diplomatic field, the Zenkoku Rōnō Taishūtō called for absolute
opposition to aggression and imperialism, repudiation of secret diplomacy,
world-wide freedom of immigration, and the right to cooperate with proletarians
abroad. Internally, the program demanded a drastic reduction of armaments end
of war expenditures, shortening of the conscription period, better treatment
of soldiers and respect for their personal rights, and economic protection for
1.
Ibid., January 1, 1931, p. 10.
2.
Tb1d., Ju1y 16, 1931, p. 84.
3.
Tb1d., July 9, 1931, p. 44.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
-27-
RESTRICTED
the families of both conscrints and killed or disabled soldiers. The party's
financial demands were directed ageinst the wealthy, calling for the abolition of
covernment subsidies to the capitalists; the creation of a property tax and a
tax on increased land values; imposition of high progressive tax rates on
copital, inheritances, incomes, land, and profits; the creation of a surtax on
death duties; the abolition of taxes, such as excises and duties on necessities,
that bore most heavily upon the lower income rouns; and the lowering of charges
in the covernment tobacco, postal, and other monopolies. In the social field,
the new party called for abolition of class discrimination and discrimination
cminst women; prohibition of the traffic in women and children; establishment
of a ten-year compulsory education system and of a far-reaching social
insuronce system, both ot the expense of the state; freedom for the study of
sociolory in the schools; nd abolition of government-sponsored or controlled
nssociations for younr: men, young women, or ex-soldiers and institutes for
military training.
1.
As  consecuence of the organization of the new party, there were only
two major  letarion nerties in the field, the Shakai Minshutō and the
Zenkoku Fōnō Taishūtō. Twelve months were to pass before the two perties,
prompted by large-scale conversions to nationalism within their own ranks,
were to succeed in joining forces.
D.
The Rise of
National
Socialism, 1032-40
1..
Effects
of
the
Monchurion
Incident
a.
The national socialist snlits end the oryanization of the Shakai
Taishūtō.
At the time of the Manchurien Incident in September 1931, the
proletarian parties, particularly the Shakai Minshutō, were unprepared to take a
stand despite the fact that both parties had anti-war provisions in their programs.
The inability of the parties to apply their theoretical pacifism nd internationalism
1.
Ib1d., Ju1y 16, 1931, p. 83.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
-28 -
RESTRICTED
to the Manchurian situation, arose from a number of causes. In the first place,
the rowth of strong militarist sentiments in Japan vas reflected in the csscggination
of Premier DluKAI Ki cnd other moderates who were regarded by the young officers end
other extreme nationalists as seeking to hamper the army's program of expunsion. It
was quite evident that any individuals or (roups who opposed military policy might
become the objects of siniler acts of violence. Secondly, the enhenced patriotism
induced by Japanese victories did not leave the social democrats untouched, and
many cmong them were sincerely convinced of the justice of Japan's cause. Finally,
each party was divided into two factions that had existed even prior to the
incident but that moved still further part fter September 1931. One of these
factions, strongly in favor of expansion abroad and national soclalism at home,
vas increasingly attracted toward elliance with extreme right-wing nationalist
roups of similor principles: the other, not wholly convinced of the necessity
of Japanese expension but cautious in expression of attitudes towerd military
policy, vas at least determined to retain traditional allegiances to democratic
socialism and an independent working-class party.
This division of policy ves, for some time, reflected in the wevering
course folloved by the two parties. In the Shakai Minshuto, Akomatsu, leader
of the nationalist faction, made repented statements in favor of expansion, arguing
that a country as poor in raw materials as Japan was "not at all obliged, for the
sake of peace, to carry on a semi-starvation existence for all eternity, for fear
of being called ageressive."l
At the some time, the party itself mede a statement
that, although noncommittal on the question of what was to be done in regard to
the existing Manchurian situation, orgued that the resources of Manchuria and
Mongolia could not possibly be developed in the interests of the proleteriat at
lurge until socialism had been achieved at home.? A similar division was evident
in the activities of the Zenkoko Ronō Taishūtō. On one occasion, the party's
1.
Inprecorr XII, No. 8 (February 25, 1932), p. 147.
2.
WC, January 7, 1932, p. 25, summary of article in Chuo Koron, January 1932.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
- 29 -
RESTRICTED
three Diet members absented themselves from the House when a resolution expreesing
gratitude to Japanese forces in Manchuria was discussed and approved, beoause
The weaknesses thus created were amply demonstrated in the national elections
of 1932, when the proletarian parties elected four candidates and received only
274,502 votes -- about half of the proletarian vote of 1930 and less than two-thirds of
that of 1928.? Soon thereafter, the dissension in the two parties came to a heed, and
the nationalist factions in each, after failing to convert the parties to national
This secession, like the dissensions that preceded it, was paralleled in the trade
unions and federations. The majority social-democratic factions in each party were
thus further stimmulated to seek unity. In July 1932 the parties merged into the
Shakai Taishūtō. ABE Iso, newly elected chairman of the executive committee,
declared: "The organization of a united proletarian party has been my only hope for
many years. Because of the dominant influence of Commmmism at one time, this hope
was delayed, but at last one solid proletarian bloc has materialized through the
morger of our two parties. "4
Despite initial police objections to proposed party planks calling for the
establishment of socialiem, control of industry by labor, and emancipation of the
colonies of the world,5 the Shakai Taishuto adopted a program unequivocally socialist
in nature. The party's manifesto had declared: "The waves of universal depression
have engulfed the capitalistic system. Some 25,000,000 unemployed and starving
farmers and workers throughout the world are organizing into armies against
capitaliem. This contradiction canmot be conquered even by the capitalists themselves.
1. JC, Jamuary 7, 1932, P. 10.
2.
TP, February 25, 1932.
3.
WC, March 24, 1932, p. 329; Apri1 21, 1932, p. 515; May 19, 1932, p. 655.
4.
TP, July 28, 1932, p. 15.
5.
JMc, July 28, 1932, p. 114.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
-30 -
RESTRICTED
The time has come for the proletariat to fulfill its mission. Under these circumstances
and with full consciousness of them the new party has been born. The party shall erect
The program reiterated the aim of destroying capitaliam and emencipating the
proletariat and, seeking to appeal to the middle class, declared, "We fight for the
protection of livelihood for laborers, farmers, and salaried men generally."
Specifically, the Shakai Taishüto comitted itself to state contrcl of staple
industries, guilds, banking organs, and staple agricultural products; nationalization
of land and guarantee of the rights of tenant farmers; promulgation of labor and
social insurance legislation; state management of housing and medical care; absolute
opposition to imperialist and capitalist wars, support of the principle of the
Strong words in its program, however, did not in the ensuing years lead the
Shakai Taishuto to assume an unocmpromising anti-war position where Japan itself was
concerned. Extreme nationalist elements no longer influenced the decisions of the
proletarian party. Within the party, however, there was still considerable
difference of opinion over the Manchurian question. In 1933, for exemple, the Kyoto
branch of the party demanded a formal denunciation of the action of SuzukI Bunji in
seeking to promote understanding of the Japanese point of view on Manchuria among the
European working class organizations represented at the ILo conference. No action was
taken, however, and it wes felt that the majority of the members of the Central
On the whole, the Shakai Taishuto refrained from any direct attack on military
1. T.P., July 28, 1932, p. 15.
2.
JWC, August 4, 1932, P. 146.
3.
JC, Apr11 6, 1933, p. 487.
4.
The potentialities for government suppression were exemplified by police activities
at a Shakai Taishuto meeting called to advocate the negotiation of a non-aggression
pact with the Ussk. Every speaker was stopped by the police, and the meeting was
not allowed to pass any resolutions. (JWC, March 2, 1933, p. 283.)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
-31 -
RESTRICTED
by a policy of limited criticism of certain aspects of goverment activities and to
promote what it regarded as working-class interests by the same technique. The
strategy of the party was well demonstrated in its statement on Japan's withdrewal
from the League of Natione. The party declared:
"Japan is being isolated from the rest of the world as a result
of the aimless bureaucratic diplomacy of the Government. The
regulations of the League of Nations, the Nine Power Treaty and the
Kellogg-Briand anti-war pact ... are now found incompatible with the
Government's Manchurian and Mongolian policy. Due to this fact, the
country has been drawn into a position where it is under the necessity
of resigning from the League of Nations.
"We do not accept the basic principles of the League of Nations;
neither do we support the report and recommendations of the Committee
of nineteen, which it looke as if the League Assembly is going to
adopt. If we do oppose Japan's withdrawal from the League, it is
because we are apprehensive lest such a step lead to another world war.
"The time has arrived for us to liquidate the bureaucratic
diplomacy which benefits the capitalistic class, and to work for
establiehment of a national diplomacy based on co-operation with the
peoples of neighboring natione. Among the things which are calling
for Japan's urgent attention are the conclusion of a treaty of non-
aggression with the Soviet Union and the establishment of relations
with China based on mutual cooperation betheen China and Japan."1
In the Diet also, although their opportumity to speak was limited by their numerical
weakness, the party's representatives sought to emphasize the needs of the working class
and peasantry. In the discussions on the budget in 1933, for example, SUGIYAMA Motojiro,
without directly attacking military policy, declared that a greater share of the tax
burden should be placed upon capitalists and landholders, since it was likely that war
expenditures would continue to increase. He also argued that, an American attack within
five or six years being inconceivable, national defense erpenditures should be curtailed
and more attention given to the security of the people's livelihood.2
b. The Nippon Kyōsantō and the 1932 Theses. Unlike the social democrate, the
Japanese Communiste responded to the Manchurian Incident with immodiate and unqualified
denunciation. In their propaganda, the workers were exhorted to refuse to produce
weapons or transport soldiers to the front; the soldiers, to turn their weapons against
1.
TP, February 23, 1933, p. 10.
2.
JWC, February 23, 1933, pp. 249, 250. See als0 Ib1d., February 15, 1934, p. 202;
Fobruary 21, 1935, p. 230.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
RESTRICTED
their rulers and leaders and to fraternize with the Chinese soldiers; and the people
in general, to fight for the immediate evacuation of Mukden, as well as all other
occupied areas, and for the immediate recall of Japanese troops.1 At the same time
the Commnmist attack on the social democrats, both leftist and rightist, was
intensified by the conviction that they not only were the toole of the capitalists
While the Commnists were seeking to promote their cause by the organization
of demonstrations and strikes and by propaganda activities among the armed foroes,3
their opportunities to influence the mass proletarian organizations were further
limited by the formation of the Shakai Taishuto, which, despite the fact that the
the new party was free of extreme nationalist elements, the Communists continued
The Nippon
Kyosantō did, it is true, suoceed in influencing or dominating a mmber of local
groupe, individual trade unions and cultaral organizations. Even if its
opportunities had been wider, its exploitation of them could hardly have been every
successful, however, sinoe the party contimued to be weakened internally by
dissension and externally by constant arrests. Not only did internal disputes
regarding the nature of the Japanese revolution continue unabated, but also a
diesident faction succeoded in organizing itself, publishing a paper, and
attracting considorable sympathy within the party by attacking the Central Executive
Committee and calling for the expulsion of its members.5
The Comintern once again intervened in the troubled affairs of the Nippon
Kyosanto in the spring of 1932, when it published 1ts theses entitled The Situation
1.
Inprecorr, XI, No. 52 (0ctober 8, 1931), p. 947; Inprecorr XII, No. 6
(February 11, 1932), p. 99.
2.
Inprecorr, XII, No. 6 (February 11, 1932), p. 99.
3.
"A Short History of the Japanese Revolutionary Movement," Part III, loc. cit.
4.
Inprecorr, XII, No. 50 (November 10, 1932), p. 1087.
5.
"A Short History of the Japanese Revolutionary Movement," Part III, loc. cit.,
Imprecorr, XV, No. 51 (0ctober 7, 1935), p. 1280.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
-33 -
RESTRICTD
in Japan and the Tasks of the Japanese Comnmist Party. In part a soathing
demunciation of the Japanese Commmists, who were simultaneously charged with the two
cardinal sins of rightist opportunism and leftist sectarianiem, the theses also
expounded at great length the current Comintern doctrine regarding the nature of the
Japanese revolution.
The Nippon Ayosanto Central Committee was strongly criticized for the statement
made in its own draft theses, published in April 1931, thet: "The coming Japanese
revolution is by its character a proletarian revolution with a great soope of
bourgeois-democratic tasks." The development of this erroneous theory the Comintern
thesis attributed to an "under-estimation of the tasks of the agrarian revolution"
and an underestimation of the role of the monarchy, "the principal bulwark of the
political reaction and of all the relics of feudalimm in the country, this enemy
of the toiling masses of Japan against which the main blow must be directed." The
Nippon Kyosanto "must clearly understand that the path to the dictatorship of the
proletariat in present Japanese conditions can only pass through the bourgoois-
democratic revolution, 1.e. through the overthrow of the monarchy and7 the
expropriation of the landlords...." The Comintern maintained that, at this point,
only the substitution of Soviete for the whole state apparatus would prevent the
Japanese bourgeoisie, especially the leftist social democrats, from limiting the
revolution by declaring a bourgeois republic and preserving the bourgeois landlord
dictatorship and the police bureaucratic apparatus for the oppression and enslavement
of the people. The formation and strengthening of the powers of the Soviets and the
assumption of leaderahip by the Commmmiste would make possible the rapid tramsition
to the dictatorship of the proletariat and the achievement of socialism.
In addition to analyzing the internal tasks of the Commmiste, the Comintern
called upon them to continue their struggle against war, declaring: "A particularly
responsible and important task devolves upon the Japanese Communists in connection
RESTRICTED

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.97)
-34-
RESTRICTED
with vigorous preparations of the Japanese imperialists for an armed intervention
:apainst the USSR. The Communist Party must propagate by all means the successes of
the Bocialist construction, the achievements of the workers and peasants of the USSR
and the peaceful policy of the Soviet Union. The Commnist Party must expose and
prevent the Japanese imperialists' preparation for war against the land of victorious
Bocialiem.'
,1
Despite the theses, however, disintegration in the Nippon Xyosanto contimued.
Arrests increased in number and frequency, and the recantations of many of those
imprisoned struck a telling blow at party morale. Most conspicuous of the
recanters were SANo Gaku and NABEYAMA Sadakichi, both old and trusted leaders of
the party. In a joint manifesto they declared that the Communist Party had ceased
to be a working-class party and was out of touch with the real concerns of the
workers; that the Comintern had drifted away from the life and struggles of the
working class; that, having become practically an organ of the Soviet Union, 1ts
internationalism was bankrupt; and that the defeatist policy that it was imposing
upon the Japanese Commmunists in the approaching war situation was harmful to the
Japanese people and to the working class. The party's fight against the monarchy,
moreover, was a mistaken one, since the Japanese monarchy -- unlike Tsarism, with
which the Commmmiste compared it . was the natural expression of the Japanese
poople. Honceforth, the two declered, they would work for the creation of a great
hundred recentations followed those of Sano and Nabeyama in 1932.3
2. The Issues of War and Fasciem
a. Leftist united-front movements. The amalgamation of the Shakai Minshuto
and the Nippon Rōnō Taishūtō in the Shakai Taishuto reprosented a consolidation of
1. CI X, No. 7 (Apr11 15, 1932), p. 221 et seq.; Inprecorr, XII, No. 23
(May 26, 1943), p. 466 ot 0g.
2.
JWC, Jum0 22, 1933, p. 864.
3. Wildes, Harry Emerson, Japan in Crisis (New York, 1934),,pp. 106-109.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
-35 -
RESTRICTED
social democratic forces after the departure of the extreme nationalist and: famaistically
inclined elemente from the proletarian movement. Similarly, the associatiom of the trade
union federations, the Nippon Rōdō Sōdāmei and the Zenkoku Rodo Kumiai Dōmei, whioh had
previously supported the two parties, with other trade unions in a loosely organimed
congress, the Nippon Rodo Kurabu, constituted a step in the direction of united trade
union action. The unwillingness of the two new organizations to take a strong stand on
questions of war and fasciem, however, led a number of leftist unions to assume a
position of opposition that resulted finally in their refusal to join the new.
organizations or their exclusion from them. In the political field, the leftist groups
adopted a policy of opposition to what they regarded as the rightist leadership and
control of the Shakai Taishütō rather than one of opposition to the Shakai Taishūtō
ituelf. In consequence, the dissident unions refrained from attempts to set up a new
political party, although they did establish a trade union federation, the Kurabu
Haigeki Dāmei, under the leadership of KATo Kanju.1 This group later became the
Zenro Tōitsu Zenkoku Kaigi and in 1934 joined with a number of unions previously
associated with the So Hyogikai (a trade union federation affiliated with the
Shin Rōnōtō) to form the Zenkoku Hyogikai. Leaders of the new federation included
KATO Kanju, SUZUKI Mosaburo, TAKANO Minoru, TAKATSU Seido, NAKANISHI Inokich1, and
2
ITO Minoru.
By 1935 the failure of the Zenkoku Hyōgikai to influence the policies of the
Shakai Taishuto, together with the development of a movement for the amalgamation of
the Dai Nippon Rōdō Södāmei and the Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Kaigi, led to efforts on the
part of the Zenkoku Hyogikai to secure membership in the proposed new federation
and thus be in a position to exert its influence from within. In January 1936,
however, when the combined federation, the Zenkoku Rodo Sōdomei, was inaugurated, the
1. AKASAKA Ichiro, Leaders of the Proletarian Part1es (Tokyo, 1936); YAMAKAWA Hitoshi,
"The Proletarian Party during the Reactionary Period," KAIzo, June 1933, pp. 2-25.
2. Akasaka, op. cit.; Yomiur1 Hochi, January 16 and 17, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
-36 -
RESTRICTED
leftist federation was excluded. In consequence, in the summer of 1936 the Zenkoku
Eyogikai, together with a number of other unicns sympathetic to ite aime, organized
till another federation, the Rono Musan Kyogikai, which began an active campaign for
admission to the Shakai Taishūtō.1
The attitude of the Rōnō Musan Kyōgikai toward the Shakai Taishuto was exemplified
in a statement made by KATo Kanju shortly after the 1936 netional election. Kato
explained that his differences with the Shakai Taishutō leaders had arisen over
questions of policy toward the Manchurian incident and the trade union movement, and
that his decision to fight against fascism as strongly as possible had forced him to
follow a different course from that of the Shakai Taishuto leadership. He went on to
express the hope that the fascist tendencies in the Shakai Taishūtō would be defeated a
and that the party would become the moving power of an anti-fascist popular frout.
Should this hope be realized, Kato declared, he and all other anti-fascists would be
umanimous in their desire to jrin with the Shakai Taishūtō. Meamwhile, he said, the
policies for which he and the other anti-fascists stood, and which they would like to
see adopted by the Shakai Taishuto, included: strengthening of the anti-fascist popular
front; opposition to the fabulous military budget; opposition to the bureaucracy and
the bourgeois regime; heavy taxation of the wealthy; and increased wages.2
Despite the fact that the Shakai Taishūtō had expressed its opposition to fascism
in slogans adopted at the time of 1ts formation,3 there was considerable reluctance
within the party to join with the foroes lod by Kato. The press reported that two
factions had developed within the party; one supported, the other opposed the admission
of the Rōnō Musan Kyōgikai. The opposing faction, lod by ASo Hisashi and KAMEI
Kanichiro, regarded the Japanese Army as essentially different from that of other
1. Akasaka, op. cit.; Yomiur1 Hochi, January 16 and 17, 1946.
2. KAT0 Kanju, "Speaking for the Voiceloss Masses," Chuo Koron, April 1936, pp. 209-215.
3. JC, August 4, 1932, p. 146.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.97)
-37-
RESTRICTED
countries in that it was an agent of socialist reform and stated that, this being the
case, a popular front was unnecessary. The supporting faction, under the leadership
of KATAYAMA Teteu, held that proletarian successes in the 1936 eleotion must be
interpreted as reflecting widespread mass opposition to fasciem, that the Shakai
Taishuto should therefore have the courage to refrain from blindly following the army,
that the agency for reform in Japan was not the army but the proletariat, and, therefore,
group within the Shakai Taishuto was reported to believe that, since there was no
organized fascist party in Japan, there was no need for the organization of a united
front; indeed, that premature agitation for a united front would serve to stimulate
and strengthen fascism.2
The forces opposing the united front finally prevailed within the Shakai Taishūtō.
The Rono Musan Kyogikai was refused admission; and in February 1937 this group, together
with a number of other trade unions, formed a new proletarian party, the Hippon Musantō.3
A month later KONo Mitsu, a member of the ASO faction in the Shakai Taishuto, erplained
his party's policy as "opposing fasciem on the one hand and the popular front movement
of a communistic nature on the other." The party interpreted fasciam, he declared,
as an outgrowth of intornational tonsion to be combated by adjusting international
relations, and it had withheld its support from the united front movement "on the
reasoned ground that a reckless following of unscrupulous overseas movements is
n4
harmful....
b. The change in line of the Nippon Kyosanto. Between the time of the issuance
of the 1932 thesis and the sessions of the Seventh Congress of the Comintern in July and
August of 1935, the Nippon Kyosanto contimued 1ts policy of attacking rightist and
1. TP, September 17, 1936, p. 13, citing Hoch1.
SuzukI Tomin, "Japan and a Fronte Populaire," Contemporary Japan, V, No. 3
(December, 1936), p. 446.
3.
NAKAGAWA Kemchi, "Proletarian Parties and the Trade Union Movement," Shakai
Seisaku Jiho, March and April, 1938.
4.
KONo Mitsu, "The Japanese Proletarian Movement, " Contemporary Japan, V, No. 4
(March, 1937), pp. 581-584.
RESTRICTKD

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
-38 -
RESTRICTED
leftist social democrats as agents of fasciem, at best granting grudging approval to
the aims of such groupe as the Zenkoku Hyogikai while simultaneously attacking them for
their refusal to work with the Commnists.1 By the time of the Seventh World Congress,
however, the Soviet Union feared attack by Germany, Japan, or both; it had been
admitted to the League of Nations; and it hed concluded mutual assistance pacts with
France and Czechoslovakia. The USSR,s new position in the international scene was
reflected in a reversal of international Commmiet policy that was immediately echoed
The new line was laid down in all its essential points in the roport to the
Congress by the Bulgarian Commmmist, Georgi Dimitroff. Its principal features were a
new interpretation of the nature and dangers of fascism and, in consequence, a new
attitude toward both social democrats and political democracy. In Dimitroff's report,
fascism was defined as the "terrorist dictatorship of the most reactionary, most
chauvinistic and most imperialist elements of finence capital," the spearheed of
international counterrevolution, the chief incendiary of imperialist war, and the
initiator of a crusade against the workers' fatherland, the Soviet Union. Its rise
to power, Dimitroff declared, had been accomplished because the working class had
been politically and organizationally split. Its defeat required not only a umited
front of all working class organizations, whether socialist, communist, or religious,
but also the establishment of an anti-fascist peoplee' front based on an alliance
between the proletariat on the one hand and the peasantry and the middle classes
on the other. He asserted that the only condition that should be established for
the achievement of this unity was that it "be directed against fasciem, against the
offensive of capital, against the threat of war, against the class enemy." Furthermore,
1. CI, XII, No. 8, (Apr11 20, 1935), p. 408.
2.
It should be noted that, although by 1934 the policies of the French Comunist
Party were anticipating those formally adopted by the Comintern in 1935, there
1s no evidence that any change occurred in Nippon Kyosanto policy until the
sessions of the Seventh Congress.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
-39 -
RESTRICTED
Dimitroff said, the fight against fascism required a change in approach toward both
bourgeois democracy and nationalism. With regard to the first, he declared: "...in
the capitalist countries we defend and shall contimue to defend every inch of
bourgeois democratic liberties which are being attacked by fascism and bourgeois
reaction." With regard to nationalim, he argued that, although Commmists are
irreconcilable opponents of bourgeois nationaliam, they are not national nihilists
and should not sneer at the nationalist sentiments of the toiling massee. Insteed,
"...proletarian internationaliem must, so to speak, 'acclimatize itself' in each
The new line was faithfully reflected in statements made by Japanese Communists
both during the Congress and after. Condemming their own past failure to recognize
that differences of opinion on the question of war and fasciem existed within the
Shakai Taishuto, the Communists admitted that their policies had antagonized not
they declared, the Nippon Kyosanto would seek to establish "a people's united front
of all sections of the population whose rights have been denied, who suffer from the
arbitrariness and tyranny of the police. Our Party proposes joint action of all
parties, groups, and public leaders who are prepared to participate in the people's
movement against fasciem, for democratic rights and for the defense of the rights
of man, for the right of combination, for freedom of speech, assembly, and press,
for the right to fight against exploitation."3
1. Georgi Dimitroff, Working Class Unity (New York, 1935), passim.
The Commumists had, of course, called repeatedly for united-front action in
the past. Their emphasis then, however, had been on what was called a "umited
front from below," which meant, in practice, Communist penetration of socialist
parties and reformist trade unions in an attempt to split them and win their
membere away from the leadership. The post-Seventh Congress policy, although it
was never specifically so stated, represented a shift to the principle of a
"united front from above," which involved cooperation with the leadership of
socialist parties, trade umions, and other organizations.
2.
Inprecorr, XVI, No. 3 (January 11, 1936), p. 77.
3.
Inprecorr, Xv, No. 65 (December 2, 1935), p. 1619.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
RESTRICTED
In terminology highly unusual for Japanese Commnmists, the party appealed "to
all the honest sone of the Japanese people, to all who sincerely desire that there
should be no war, who want our land to be free and happy" to form a people's front
for peace. It extended this invitation not only to the Shakai Taishuto and the
organized and umorganized workers and peasants, but also to the pacifiet Buddhist
The united front, the Communists believed, should demand peace, immediate
cessation of the war with China and withdrawal of Japanese troops, and world-wide
restriction on military budgets. It should struggle against fascism, militarism,
barrack slavery, and erploitation of workers and peasants, and work for the rights
of organization, free speech, assembly, and press. The Nippon Syosanto stated,
furthermore, that, although it believed these demands to be the most urgent for
securing a minimm standard of living for the Japanese people, it was willing "to
join in the struggle with all organizations, public persons, and groups, if these
3. The Proletarian Parties in the Eloctions of 1936 and 1937
It is difficult to ostimate the degree to which the united front movement
influenced the success of the proletarians in the 1936 national election, in which
eighteen proletarian candidates were raturned, or in the 1937 election, which
resulted in a doubling of proletarian representation.3 The extreme mistrust with
which the goverment regarded even the use of the phrase "united front" may be one
reason why discussion of its influence is rare in Japanese sources. That the idea
had some popularity among the Japanese people, however, is evident from the fact that
in the 1936 slection KAto Kanju,4 its leading proponent, received more votes than any
1.
Inprecorr, IVI, No. 14 (March 14, 1936), p. 362.
2.
Inprecorr, IVI, No. 3 (January 11, 1936), p. 77.
3.
Increased popular support of the proletarian movement was also reflected in
prefectural and mumicipal elections in this period.
4. Representing the Rōnō Musan Kyōgikai.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
RESTRICTED
other single candidate. Then too, although Commnist influence was weak at best, the
mere fact that the Commnists had refrained from disruptive activities in consequence
of Seventh Congress decisions may have contributed to some ertent to proletarian
successes. The greatest single factor, hovever, was probably the existence for the
first time of a high degree of unity in the proletarian movement. The Shakai Taishutō
also benefited from the govermment-sponsored campaign for clean elections which, in
1936 and 1937, reduced somewhat the disadvantages that the proletarians had suffered
in the past from government interference and from the ability of the major parties
to indulge in wholesale bribery.
1
The Shaka1 Taishuto entered the 1936 elections with slogans demanding political
reform; restoration of the equilibrium between war expenditures and erpenditures for
internal economic stability; radical reform of the taxation system; the enactment of
a Labor Union Law, a Farm Tenacy Law, and other laws designed to advance the
interests of small merchants, emall industrialists, and farmers; and the adoption
of a new foreign policy aimed at the adjustment of relations between Japan,
In the Diet, however, Shakai Taishuto members continued to follow the
temporizing and sostimes contradictory policies that hed characterized their party
since the time of the Manchurian Incident. It became increasingly apparent in Diet
interpellations that anti-capitaliam of the reaotionary Young Officer's clique had
strong appeal for a number of leading members of the party. ASo Hisashi, for example,
discussing the incident of February 26, declared: "The way must be opened for the
political views of younger officers to be legitimately submitted to and properly
weighed by the army leaders."3 KAMEI Kanichiro remarked: "What the people...fear
about the army is not the question of participation in politice by military men, but
1. See OIR-3405, The Japanese National Election System, October 18, 1945, pp. 20-25,
RESTRICTED.
2.
JWC, December 12, 1935, p. 742.
3.
Tb1d., May 14, 1936, p. 602.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
RESTRICTED
that the army, whioh is advocating a broader viewpoint on national defense, might
Other members of the party, meanwhile, continued to attack war expenditures
indirectly by demanding larger appropriations for internal relief and the shifting
of the tax burden to the shoulders of those best able to bear it. "What is the
nature of the national defense in the broad sense which the Cabinot claime to be
intending to carry out?" KATAYAMA Tetau demanded: "The history of the mmitions
industry is one of progress at the expense of national economy and the livelihood
of the people. Increased taxes, most of them on the masses, are stimulating
development of the munitions industry on a large scale through the distribution of
a tremendous sum for military needs.... Reform of taxation systems must be based
on redistribution of the national income. We absolutely oppose taxation of the
masses because it destroys proper development of general national strength and
makes the livelihood of the people insecure."2 He was echoed by MIZUTANI
Chosaburo, who asserted that, if the national defense must be perfected, it
In March 1937 the Diet was dissolved, and, in the election that followed, the
proletarian popular vote increased from the approximately 500,000 votes won in the
4
previous election to a little over a million,4 resulting in an increase in
proletarian representation from eighteen to thirty-eight membera. Shakai Taishūtō
election slogans were similar to those of the past. Once again they called for
internal reform and extornal peace. They included also a demand for the negotiation
of a Russo-Japanese non-aggression pact. The election program of the recently
organized Nippon Musanto was somewhat more radical on certain issues. The Nippon
Musanto program emphasized its opposition to fascism, whereas the Shakai Taishūto
1.
TP, May 21, 1936, p. 15.
2.
Ibid., March 11, 1937, p. 16.
3.
Ibid., March 25, 1937, p. 18.
4.
JWC, May 6, 1937, P. 554.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
RESTRICTED
program was silent on this question. The Nippon Musanto openly demanded the reduction
of military expenditures, whereas the Shakai Taishuto called for their rationalization.
The increased strength of the proletarian movement, as reflected in the 1937
election, was, however, to have little influence on the subsequent course of events
in Japan, for it was not long after the election that the outbreak of hostilities in
North China lod to a reversal in Shakai Taishūto policies and the suppression of the
Nippon Musantō.
4.
The China Incident
a. The change in Shakai Taishūtō policy. Japanese expansion into Worth China
in July 1937 marked the beginning of a period in which the proletarien movement was
to disappear entirely as a political force. In part, this disappearance was the direct
consequence of government action: ever-increasing suppression of dissident thought;
diesolution under government pressure of trade unions and farmers' organizations,
which were replaced by government-controlled associations; and goverment sponsorship
of the one-party movement, which ended in l940 in the dissolution of all political
parties and the organization of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association (IRAA). In
part, however, it was also due to the growth emong members of prolotarian groups,
as among others, of the conviction that Japan's overseas policy could not be
successful without stronger government control and an end to bickering between
parties and intorest groups.
It is difficult to evaluate the relative strength of these two factors in
influencing the actions of proletarian leaders. Certainly differences were marked
among them. One group resisted the govermment and accepted imprisonment rather than
compromise; an opposing group moved fairly rapidly and apparontly voluntarily into
the camp of mi itariem and national socialiam; still a third retreated gradually
1. NAKAGAWA Kenichi, op. cit.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
RESTRICTED
until contimual compromise with militarism led in turn to compromise on domestic issues
as the maintenance of the "national polity" because ever more closely associated with
expansion abroad.
The immediate response of the Shakai Taishuto to the North China situation was
one of caution. Assurances of support to the government in a time of national crisis
were qualified by reminders that reform at home was urgontly needed. Called by
Premier Konoe to a meeting of representatives of the political parties, Abe pledged
his party to cooperation in joint action to promote national unity. To members of
the Shakai Taishūto, he declared that Sino-Japanese diplomatic relations were facing
a period of great crisis, that the causes of this situation were many and a hasty
verdict was, therefore, unwarranted, and that the situation was a great ordeal for
both nations. He asserted that China must abandon its wrongful attempt to achieve
unification by anti-Japanese slogans and that Japan must carry out fundamental
1
reforms in order to hasten the day when both nations could cooperate heartily.
Some months thereafter, as the party's contribution to national unity, national
consciousness replaced class consciousness in the Shakai Taishuto program. The 1932
program had called for the emancipation of the proletariat through the elimination
"The party aime at the promotion of the progress and development
of the Japanese nation in conformity with the dictates of the national
polity, so that the civilization of mankind may be helped forward.
"The party, ropresenting the working and lower middle classes,
aims at the reform of capitalism so that industry may be rationalized
and the national life stabilized."3
In the following month the little prospect of outspoken opposition to war that
remained was destroyed by the government's dissolution of the Nippon Musanto and the
Kyogikai and the arrest of some four hundred popular front leaders and sympathizers,
1.
JWC, July 29, 1937, p. 161.
2.
Supra, p.
3.
JWC, November 18, 1937, p. 661.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
-45-
-39
RESTRICTED
STRIC
uding KATO Kanju, YAMAKAWA Hitoshi, ARAHATA Katsuzo, SUZUKI Mosaburo, and
11sm
DA Hisao.1 The Shakai Taishūto was quick to disavow any connection with the
With
party has been firmly rejecting the Popular Front tendencies which have
ro b
:ored in the Japan Proletarian Party and the All-Japan Council of Trade Unions.
n, ho
dissolution and suppression of these two organizations by the Home Office was
nati
ritable even though regrettable."3
st se
After the suppression of the Nippon Musanto and its affiliated organizations,
1tarism, for all practical purposes, ceased to be an issue within the proletarian
n its
ement, and the statements of the Shakai Taishuto and the trade unions, like those
octed
other parties and groups, became ever more fulsome in their praise of the holy
Conda
A Shakai Taishūto manifesto of November 1938 1llustrates the length to which
estio
"Since the start of the Sino-Japanese affair nearly a year and a
uld a
half ago the Japanese Army has reduced North Contral, and South China
and now holde in its hands the fate of the Chiang Kai-shek regime. The
160 r
virtues of our Sovereign have made such achievements possible, but the
valor and loyalty of the Imperial Army and Navy also have shone
ice.
splendidly before the world. We humbly offer three banzai for the
Emperor and thank our officers and men for their hardships and toil.
ho ar
To the heroes who have beccme immortal pillars of the nation, we express
our heartfelt condolences; to the wounded officers and men, our earnest
atic
hope that they may recover quickly.
, for
"The China Incident has entered a new phase and the responsibility
for long-term construction has been placed upon our shoulders. Even
Itatic
though Canton has fallen and Hankow is in Japanese hands, establishment
of peace and order and the clearing from China of Communist bandits
remain to be accomplished and managament of the occupied areas is only
about to be undertaken in real earnest. Relations with third powers are
Unity
very delicate, and there can be no sure prediction of what lies ahead.
call
The phrase 'the war has only begun' is no mere rhetoric but the simple
howev
truth.
in pr
ns in
 Th
, rop:
WC, December 12, 1937, p. 871; Pacific Digest, Vol. II, No. 3 (March, 1938),
invo.
p. 83.
and
Contemporary Japen, March 1938, pp. 756, 760.
1, 19
TP, December 30, 1937, p. 7.
2, 19
RESTRICTED
REST

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
-46-
RESTRICTED
"And what is long-term construction? The building of a new
'central country' in China, establishment of economic reciprocity
among China, Manchukuo, and Japan and ranovation at home must be
achieved side by side, and an East Asiatic federation must be
completed. Such is the nature of the long-term construction that
lies ahead.
"This will require long years of endurance and sacrifices and
the people must propare for them on a long term basis. We must
regulate general mobilization of the nation in order that we may
endure and persevere. It is precisely because of this that the
nation must be reorganized.
"It would be difficult, we believe, to settle the China
incident merely as it relates to China, Manchuria, and Japan. A
new system must be shaped for all East Asia, the destiny of which
is related closely to the settlement of the China outbreak. Thus
our vision must extend to the whole of Asia. As the basis for
this new order, a pan-Asiatic League must be formed.
"But only those who can bring about renovation at home can
fashion a new order for all Asia, and only those who can visualize
a new order for all Asia can bring about renovation at home. Our
spirit of renovation and our will be sic--to?7 reconstruct must
more and more gain in splendor. We ask the entire party to
consolidate its convictions and prepare for the great things to
come.
"And we resolve on formation of a league of Asiatic nations,
completion of an East Asiatic federation, construction of a Sino-
Japanese-Manchurian economic system, construction of a new China
that is pro-Japanese and enti-commumist, enforcement of renovation
at home, reorganization of the people and achievement of long-term
reconstruction."1
A few months later, the Shakai Taishuto cooperated with a number of smaller
parties, including the reactionary Tōhōkai and Kokumin Dámei, in introducing a
resolution in the Diet urging the government to strengthen the Anti-Comintern
Asia...absolutely demands that the Chiang Kai-shek regime be crushed. But in
order to crush the Chiang Kai-shek regime, the third Powers aiding and abetting
it must be suppressed or forced to withdrav. This requires, erternally, that
1.
Ibid., November 24, 1938, p. 15.
2.
JWC, March 30, 1939, p. 376.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
-47-
REBTRICTED
Japan further strengthen the relationship of harmony and collaboration with Germany
and Italy, and, internally, that the total strength of the nation be developed to
the utmost..
1"1
Shakai Taishūtō sponsors of the resolution included ASANuMA Inajiro
and KAWAMATA Seion; supportors included TAHARA Haruj1, NOMIZU Masaru, KAWAKAMI Jotaro,
and KATAYAMA TotBu.
b. The dissolution of the Shakai Taishuto. As support of the holy war
became ever more closely allied with national unity, the one-party movement grew in
strength and attracted considerable sympathy within the ranks of the Shakai Taishuto.
Thus in June 1938, after a six-hour meeting, the party's Diet mombers adopted a
resolution emphasizing the necessity of eliminating every source of internal
friction and calling for the organization of a new national party.2 That the
party was far from united on this question, however, became evident in future events.
Loud as were their protestations in favor of national unity, strong elements
in the Shakai Taishuto, under the leadership of ABE Iso and KATAYAMA Tetsu, and in the
trade unions, under the leadership of MATSUOKA Komakichi, remained devoted to the
principle of independent working class organizations. They sought to resist, on the
one hand, the movement toward the formation of a single party, and on the other, the
replacement of trade umions by a government-controlled labor front.
By February 1939 the disappearance of the Shakai Taishūtō seemed certain since
plans for its amalgamation with the reactionary Tohokai, led by NAkano Seigo, were
nearing completion. On February 9 a joint manifesto issued under the names of Abe
and Nakano declared that, although the two parties had had their differences in
the past, "In stringent times like the present, there should be no hesitation on
and open their hearts to each other like comrades on the battlefield and become the
forerunners of a new era. Thus the two parties should at once undertake the
1. , March 23, 1939, P. 7.
2.
Tbid., Jume 16, 1938, p. 11.
3.
The soul of Japan.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
RESTRICTED
dissolution of each and the speedy formation of a preparatory committee for organizing
a unitary national totalitarien party founded on the comradeship of members sworn to
Taishutō. Late in February, Abe announced that he was retiring from politics and
would not join the new party.
2
This move caused considerable consternation among
proponents of the merger, who interpreted Abe's step as the forerunmer of a major
split, and it was finally agreed that the plan be dropped.3
The final dissolution of the Shakai Taishuto and its disappearance into the
single-party movement were occasioned by a seemingly unrelated event. On Februery 2,
1940, SAIt0 Takao" made a speech in the Diet that was interpreted as being over critical
of military policy in China. A movement for his expulsion began immediately and was
supported by the Shakai Taishutō. When the question was brought to a vote in the
lower house, however, nine of the party's Diet members -- ABE Iso, KATAYAMA Tetau,
SUZUKI BunJ1, OKAZAKI Ken, MIZUTANI Chosaburo, NISHIO Suehiro, YONEKUBO ManJiro,
MATSUNAGA Yoshio, TOMIYOSHI Eij1, and an independent proletarian representative,
MATSUmOTO Jiichiro -- absented themselves. The erecutive committee of the party,
under the leaderahip of ASo Hisash1, KAMEI Kanichiro, and other nationalistically
inclined members, thereupon expelled all the absentees except Abe. He, however,
The members of the expelled group were quick to disavow any agreement with
Saito's principles and concentrated their attack upon the executive committee end 1ts
methods. They reiterated their allogiance to the holy war and the new order as they
had been defined by Konoe, but nevertheless managed to meke clear their belief that
the expulsion of Saito was a rash act that might ultimately cause great loss to the
6
state.
The determination of the group to "guard the tredition of the party of the
1. P, February 16, 1939, p. 15.
2.
JWC, March 2, 1939, p. 254.
3.
Tbid.; TP, March 2, 1939, P. 9.
4.
Then a leader of the Minseito; since the war active in conservative politics.
5.
WC, February 8, 1940, p. 153, February 15, 1940, p. 183, March 7, 1940, p. 274,
March 14, 1940, pp. 302, 3; TP, March 14, 1940, pp. 9, 10.
6.
TP, March 14, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
-49-
RESTRICTED
toiling people to the end" was demonstrated in its attempt to organize a new
proletarian party, the Kinro Kokuminto. The new party, 1ts platform stated, aimsd
"at the vindication of the fundamentals of the national polity, the development of
the Japanese nation and the advance of the interests of the working clase..., the
reform of capitalism, the increase of the collective national power and the
Ministry, which stated that "judging from these people's past ideas and behavior, from
the circumstances leading up to the organization of the Preparatory Committee and
from their subsequent course of action, there is no doubt that their intention is to
organize a politicel party which supports Socialism in thought and which is based
The dissolution of the Kinro Kokumintō increased the insecurity of the trade
union congress, the Nippon Rödo Kumiai Kaigi, which had alreedy been weakened by
defections to the nationaliet labor movement and by government preseure. Under the
leaderahip of MATSUOKA Komakich1 and KATAYAMA Teteu, the congress had supported the
movement for the organization of the Kinro Kokumintō, and the dissolution of the
latter brought with it a Home Ministry request that the Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Kaig1
disband voluntarily.3 Matsuoka insisted, however, that there was still need for
an independent trade union organization,4 and it was not until August 1940 that
the Nippon Rodō Kumiai Kaig1 disappeared as the result of government order.
Meanwhile, the Shakai Taishutō had, of course, come completely under the
control of the nationalists. In June the party issued e statement declaring that,
in view of military developments in Europe, a revolutionary change was required
1.
JWC, May 2, 1940.
2.
Tb1d., May 16, 1940, p. 576.
3.
TP, May 23, 1940, p. 13.
4.
Ibid., May 16, 1940, p. 13; May 23, 1940, p. 13.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
- 50 -
RESTRICTED
in Japanese foreign policy, which had hitherto been based upon subservience to Great
Britain and the United States. It demanded that negotiations with Britain and the
United States be suspended immediately, that ties with Germany and Italy be
strengthened, and that Indochina be forced to cut off the supply route to China and
1
the Netherlands East Indies to cooperate with the economio federation of East Asia.
A week later the party announced that it had decided to dissolve in order to promote
The dissolution of the Shakai Taishūto was but the formal recognition of the
disappearance of the independent proletarian movement in Japan. Thereafter the
rank and file members adjusted themselves to increasing state regimentation,
oconomic and political; the leaders, to participation in the national movement
or political oblivion, depending upon the strength of their ambitions and the nature
of their convictions. In China, however, a handful of exiled radicals sought to
keep the Japanese left-wing tradition alive and to lend their efforts to the
defeat of the Japanese Government
1. TP, Jume 27, 1940, p. 14.
2. JWC, July 4, 1940, P. 13.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
-51-
RESTRICTED
II. THE LXIT IN EXIIE
A. Introduction
Active Japanese radicalism during the war was confined to mmall groups of eriles
and prisoners of war in China. In Japan proper, labor disturbances and slackening
morale were occasionally attributed to Commmist or other leftist activities, but
no evidence has emerged of any significant underground organization during the war.
Indeed, Japanese Commnists -- with practically all of their leaders in prison --
seem to have consciously adopted a program of quietiam in an attempt to conserve
their strength and avoid unnecessary sacrifices. On the whole, Commmist
activities during the war period seem to have been confined to cautious attempts
by individuals to influence their fellows.
In China, there were two centers of Japanose radicaliem -- one in the
Kuomintang area and one in the area under Communist control. In nationalist China,
Japanese radical activities hardly constituted a movement, since they were confined
to a very large extent to the assistance rendered to Allied psyohological warfare by
two ertremely small groups of Japanese prisoners led respectively by KAJI Wataru and
AOYAMA Kazuo, both exiled radicals. In the Commumist area, on the other hand, use
of Japanese prisoners in psychological warfare led to the organization of a
movement that, although amall and limited in its activities, was important because
of the training it gave its members in organizational and indostrination techmiques
and the groundwork it established for post-war Commmiet united-front efforts.
B. The Japanese in Commmist China
1. Early Policies of the Chinese Commmists. During the civil war period
(1927-l937) the Chinese Commnists had made extensive use of peychological warfare
techniques, particularly those directed at converting the onemy as well as
demoralizing him. It was but natural, therefore, that they should think in terms of
adapting those techniques to the war against the Japanese. Early efforts were based
almost entirely upon civil war models; Chinese soldiers shouted slogans in Japanese
RESTRICTED

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
- 52 -
RESTRICTED
calling upon the enemy to surrender and promising good treatment. This techmique
proved ineffectual, however, and late in l937 more serious attention was given to
the problem by the Political Affairs Department of the Eighth Route Army. It was
announced that the general population in Communist areas and all troops, were to be
instructed in so-called anti-enemy work; that special anti-eneuy units were to be
formed; and that war prisoners were not to be killed but to be given preferential
treatmont.1
The political basis for this type of work was laid in an order issued by Chu Teh
that declared: "Japanese soldiers are the sons and brothers of the toiling masses.
Deceived and coerced by the Japanese warlords and financial oligarchs, they have been
forced to fight against us." It was therefore necessary to expose Japanese
propaganda, to heighten the war-weariness and anti-war sentiments of the Japanese
soldiers, and to offer them a way out by urging them to fight against their government's
war of aggression. Practically, this was to be achieved by forbidding injury or
insult to Japanese prisoners, giving special care to the wounded, releasing those
who wished to return to their units and doing everything possible to achieve their
safe return, erecting tombstores for Japanese soldiers killed in battle, and providing
suitable work and educational facilities for those prisoners who wished to remain
with the Eighth Route Army.2
Successes achieved, however, were extremely limitod. It was discovered from
discuseion with the few Japanese who were taken prisoner and decided to remain with
the Commumists that the slogans the latter had been employing in their leaflets were
far too radical and abstract to obtain sympathy or even comprehension from the average
Japanese soldier.3 Recognition of these and other weaknesses led to an attempt to
1. Office of War Information (OWI), Yenan Report, No. 60, UNRESTRICTED.
2. OWI, Yenan Roport, No. 2, UNRESTRICTED.
3. OWI, Yenan Roport, No. 27, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
- 53 -
RESTRICTED
secure better results by wider use of Japanese prisoners and by providing more
extensive training in the Japanese language and Japanese attitudes for Chinese
specialists in anti-enemy work.1
2. The North China Branch of the Hansen Dōme1. By 1939 small groups of Japanese
prisoners were working actively with the Eighth Route Army and had organized
themselves into so-called Awakening Leagues. These groups in 1940 decided to merge
with the Hansen Domei (Anti-War League), which KAJI Wataru had founded in Nationalist
In the spring of 1940 the Political Affairs Department circulated a new
directive to the front. Although in many of its aspects this directive was a
repetition of orders already given, it also laid the basis for certain changes in
emphasis and technique. One of the most important of the inmovations was the order
prohibiting further use of such slogans as 'Down with Hirohito," "Change the
Imperialistic War into Civil War," "Armed insurrection in the Army," and "Kill your
officere and bring on your defeat." All propaganda was to be checked by Japanese
prisoners, and, wherever possible, they were to do the actual writing. Greater
stress was to be placed upon the education of new prisoners -- a process in which
old prisoners were to participate as mich as possibl. Those who wished to return
to their units were to receive a short indoctrination course before being sent back,
while those who wished to remain were to be trained gradually to participate in
anti-enemy work. For this purpose, branches of the Japanese Workere' and Peasants'
Under these directives and with the increasing participation of members of the
Hanson Dome1, the Chinese felt that their psychological warfare work was
1. OWI, Yenan Report, Nos. 27 and 60, UNRESTR1CTED.
2. OWI, Yenan Roport, No. 2, UNRESTRICTED.
3. OWI, Yenan Report, No. 60, UARESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
- 54 -
RESTRICTED
advancing rapidly; they pointed to the hitherto unkmowm voluntary surrenders as
of the Hansen Dömei was called in Yenan, the organization had eight branches in the
Communist area. At this conference the North China branch of the Hansen Dome1 adopted
The progrem dealt principally with the organization of the league and with
detailed discussions of methods of psychological warfare, the mistakes of the past,
and plans for the future. Its political statements were general in the extreme. The
Sino-Japanese War was defined as an aggressive war waged by the Japanese militarists and
capitalists at the expense of the Japanese people. The Japanese Government was
branded as a war government entirely under the control of the militarists. "Therefore,
we must overthrow such an enemy of the Japanese people and establish a government of
the people which will give the people peace, freedom, and happiness."
Even less political in content were the Demands of Japanese Soldiers. Aimed at
stimulating class consciousness within the army, the demands emphasized the simple
and the essential -. food, gifts, leaves, recreation, clothing, and punishment. They
concentrated on goals that the ordinary soldier might feel were possible of attainment
by joint action and presented the common soldier with a complete and depressing
picture of the sources of his diecontent.
3. The Arrival of NOSAKA Sanzo and the Organization of the Japan People's
Emancipation League (Nippon Jimmin Kaiho Remmei). From the political point of view,
the most important period of Japanese activity in Yenan began with the arrival of
NOSAkA Sanzo in May 1943. Nosaka (known throughout the Yenan period by his
pseudonym OKAno Susumu) was a Commmist of long standing. In London as corresponding
secretary of the Yuaika1 in 1920, he had Joined the British Commmist Party, and,
after returning to Japan via Moscow in 1922, he had become a member of the Nippon
1. OWI, Yenan Report, No. 60, UMRESTRICTED.
2. Text in WI, Yenan Report, No. 44, UNRESTRICTED.
3. Text 1n REF-XL 2738, December 10, 1944, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
-55-
RESTRICTED
Kyosantō. After a period of activity in left-wing trade unions, he left Japan in 1932
in order to escape arrest. Fleeing to Moscow, he succeeded KATAYAMA Sen in 1933 as the
key Japanese Communist in the Comintern after the latter's death. In 1935 Nosaka was
elected to the Executive Committee of the Communist International and to the
Presidium of the Executive Committee. According to his owm statement, he did not
return to Japan at any time after 1932 although he traveled extensively outside the
Nosaka's arrival meant that for the first time there was a Japanese in Yenan
who not only had received advanced education in the usual sense but also was an
experienced Commmist with the blessings of the Comintern and with prestige sufficient
to establish him as an equal of the Chinese Communist leadere. He immediately
assumed direction of the work and education of the Japanese prisoners and, in addition,
undertook to reorganize the Hansen Damei to place greater emphasis on its united-front
aspects and its postwar mission.
conditions in Japan, the intornational situation, and the ways in which the war might
be brought to an end. This Appeal, an application of the Seventh Congress line to
the immediate situation, became the tertbook of the studente in the beginning course
of the Japanese Workers' and Peasants' School at Yenan.3 Ite extremely simplified and
dramatically presented analysis of the ills of the Japanese workers, peasants,
soldiers, white-collar workers, small business men and intellectuals, all of which were
ascribed to the war waged solely for their own profit by the militarists, the big
capitalists, and the large landholders, admirably fitted it for the indoctrination of
the fairly simple minds to which it was directed. At the same time it was concerned
much more directly than was earlier propagande of Yenan origin with the ways in which
1. OWI, Yenan Roport, No. 8, UNRESTRICTED.
2. Full text in OWI, Yenan Report, No. 18, UNRESTRICTED.
3. OWI, Yenan Report, No. 55, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
-56 -
RESTRICTED
the people of Japan, as well as the front-line soldiers, could be encouraged to
realize the origins of their troubles end to turn their discontent into action
against the governmont.
According to the Appeal, the most important task of the Japanese people was to
bring the war to an end by organizing a people's front, crushing the militarists,
and setting up a people's govermment. To achieve thie objective, the politically
conscious were: to enlighten the people with regard to the true nature of the war;
to encourage them to reject their war-born burden of sacrifice; to urge them to unite
and fight to protect their own livelihood and liberty; and by these means to seek to
render Japan's wartime structure unstable. The first step in the struggle was the
fight for the immediate demands of the people. These demands, like those of the
Japanese soldiers, ranged from the conceivably possible, such as an increase in
wages and on improvement in air raid shelters, to such demands as the recall of
husbands, brothers, and sons from the front, the achievement of which would
require the overthrow of the government and the end of the war.
Although the Appeal was thus more of a lesson in how discontent might be
exploited for political ends than a considered statement of policy, its political
aspects at least gave some indication of the aims that were both acceptable to Nosaka
and his follovers and regarded by them as having some appeal for the Japanese people.
The process by which the people's government was to be established was described in
general terms. Complete freedom of speech, press, assembly, and organization was
to be granted; all political prisoners were to be released; suffrage was to be granted
to all men and women over twenty; free elections were to be held; and the Diet so
elected was to be givon full rights by a revised constitution. On the basis of this
Diet and constitution, a people's government was to be set up.
One of the most interesting features of the Appeal was its exploitation of the
fear that if Japan yielded to the Allies it might become a colony. The United States
and Britain, Nosaka declared, had no intention of colonizing Japan but, in any evant,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
RESTRICTED
colonization was not an inevitable consequence of defeat. Soviet Russia, for
exemple, had been invaded by the leading nations of the world after the revolution,
but the existance in Russia of a people's government had made successful resistance
possible. So in Japan "if the people install a people's govermant, as the Russian
people did, and unite solidly to fight bravely for the people's independence and
against the enemy, there is no danger of Japan's becoming a colony." Nosaka asserted
that if a capitalistic goverment emerged after the war it might sell out Japan to
foreign states and it was to fight this danger that a people's government must be
establiehed.
The progrem proposed by Noeaka as the basis upon which postwar Japan might
reconstruct 1tself emerged more clearly at the beginning of 1944 when the Hansen
Dome1 was dissolved and the Nippon Jimmin Kaiho Remmei (Japanese People's
Emancipation League) was set up in its place. The new organization, although for
the moment composed of the same group that had made up the Hansen Domei, was
designed to attract the support of Japanese all over the world and to serve as the
nucleus of the united front movement that might lead Japan toward a people's
government in the postwar period.
The Nippon Jimmin Kaiho Remmei was set up on the principle that its members need
agree only on the fundamental objectives -- the end of the war and the overthrow of
the militarists -- and might disagree on any other part of the program, a provision
1
reminiscent, of course, of the Seventh World Congress line. Even within this
limitation, the program was an extremely moderate one, couched sufficiently vaguely
to be subject to fairly wide interpretation and containing little that reflected
Socialist or Commmist doctrine.
The first demands of the draft program? were for en immediate cessation of the
war, withdrawal of Japanese troops from occupied areas, and the negotiation of a
just peace. Thereafter war criminals were to be punished, the power of the militarists
1. Hsin Hua Jih Pao, June 5, 1944.
2. Full toxt in OWI, Yenan Report, No. 36, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
- 58 -
RESTRICTED
swept away, the armed forces demobilized, conscription abolished, and an army sufficient
for defense maintained by voluntary service. Pursuing a thoroughly peaceful foreign
policy, Japan was to join the postwar international organization.
In the economic sphere, Japan was to adopt a policy that would make it strong
and prosperous by cutting military expenditures to a minimum and devoting the bulk
of the government's revenue to rehabilitation and reconstruction, by maintaining and
strengthening stete control over banks and large monopolistic enterprises, by
intensively develcping industry and reforming and mechanizing agriculture, by
promoting foreign trade, and by raieing the general standand of living. The
improvement in the general stendard of living was to be achieved through raising
wages, reducing hours, lowering prices and rents, prohibiting evictions, improving
working conditions, restoring trade and agricultural unions, reducing the burden of
taxes borne by the masses, and adopting measures for the relief end revival of small
business men and manufacturers.
Politically, the influence of the militarists was to be removed by abolishing
their right of direct appeal to the Emperor, eliminating the provision that the
Army and Navy Ministers must be drawn from the services, and dissolving all militarist
organizations. In addition, all restrictive laws were to be abrogated, complete
freedom of speech, assembly, press, and religion was to be granted, the suffrage was
to be exercised by all persons over twenty, and a democratic political syatem was to
be set up by convoking a national congress to revise the constitution.
This program was admittedly mede as general as possible in order to attract
"all classes of war-weary, anti-Fascist, and anti-militarist Japanese people."1 Its
very vagueness, however, stimulated some criticiem on the part of interested groups in
China. The liberal Chinese newspaper Ta Kung Pao, for example, criticized the draft
1. Hein Hua Jih Pao, March 22, 1944.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
- 59 -
RESTRICTED
for its abstract character and particularly for its failure to mention the Emperor
and the Zaibatsu. In reply to these criticism, MCRI Ken (one of the first Japanese
prisoners in Yenan, who became one of the outatanding leaders of the Japanese
group) emphasized the necessity of adopting a minimum program. The Emperor, the
militariste, and the Zaibatau, ho said, are all guilty of the war of aggression.
But it is the militarists who are now in sole control. The militarists may be
likened to the horse on which the Emperor and the great economic interests sit, and
an old proverb declares that if you want to shoot the rider you must first shoot the
a quasi-religious influence over the Japanese people, and this influence would have
to be destroyed by long and patient indoctrination before the slogan "Down with the
Emperor" could be advanced. As to "the confiscation of the property of the financial
magnate3, even of the few war industrialists only," he asserted that announcing such
a policy, however desirable in the long run, would "be enough to frighten the rest
of Japan's capitalists into supporting the militarists" and would "further cause the
small cepitalists who would otherwise certainly join us, to vacillate. The result
would be only to strengthen the enemy camp and weaken our own, and our movement
4. Nosaka es Spokesman for the Nippon Kyōsantō. During the war period, Nosaka
was the only member of the Nippon Kyosento who wes in a position to state his views
as a Communist3 with regard to the future of Japan. In view of his post-surrender
1. An interesting sidelight on the complete reversal in Communist policy that this
statement reflects is the fact that in the early l93o's, in testimony before a
Japanese court, Ichikawa, the then imprisoned leeder of the Nippon Kyōsantō, ueed
this same proverb with the Emperor figuring as the horse. His evidence was cited
in an art1cle by Nosaka in CI, XIII, No. 10 (0ctober, 1936), p. 1380.
2.
Hsin Hun Jih Pao, June 5, 1944.
3.
There was one other member of the Nippon Kyosento in Yenan, SAWADA Jun, who
esceped from Japan after a period of imprisonment and mede his way to North
China in 1943. A Communist League was organized in Yenan in 1942 by the most
advanced of the Japanese prisoners, but it wes felt thet they should not be
admitted to the Nippon Kyösanto itself until after their retun to Japan.
OWI, Yenan Report, No. 45, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
- 60 -
RESTRICTED
activities in Japan, his Yenen views, particularly those regarding the Emperor and
the nature of the transition to socialism, are worthy of some examination.
With regard to the Emperor, Nosaka during his sojourn in Yenan repeatedly
emphasized the necessity of making a distinction between the political and the
religious aspects of the Emperor system and between the Imperial House and the
reigning Emperor. In his report to the Seventh National Delegates Congress of the
Chinese Communist Party,1 Nosaka declared that although "our Japanese people have
faith in the Emperor himself, they do not worehip the dictatorial machine. Therefore,
we must immediately abolish the Emperor system which is an autocratic machine and
institute a democratic system." As a semi-religious symbol, on the other hand, the
Emperor's position was deeply rooted in the minds of the Japanese masses. "The
broad masses who would naturally come to our camp if we do not raise the slogan of
overthrowing the Emperor would stay away from us merely by our raising such a slogan,
and such a move would present the denger of our being isolated from the masses."
Nosaka hastened to explain that the Communists saw in the Emperor a potential
nucleus of reaction and that these statements did not mean that they would welcome
the retention of the Emperor. Ultimate Communist demands called for a republic,
he asserted; however,
"our demands cannot be realized against the wishes of the
majority of our people. If the majority of our people
fervently demands the perpetuation of the Emperor, we
must concede to them. Therefore, we propose as a
suggestion that the question of maintaining or abolishing
the Emperor be decided after the war by plebiscite. Then,
even if the outcome of the plebiscite is perpetuation of
the Emperor, such an Emperor must be one who does not
possess power."
Hirohito, however, must be regarded in a different fashion from the Imperial House.
Having sanctioned the war with Britain and the United States by Imperial Rescript and
1. Full text in OWI, Yenan Report, No. 71, URRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
- 61 -
RESTRICTED
having been increasingly utilized by the militarists for appeals to popular patriotiam,
he cannot escape responsibility for and identification with the war and therefore,
The gradualiem of Nosaka's approach to the Emperor question was paralleled in his
statements concerning the process by which Japan would achieve socialism. This
process he vieualized as occurring in three stages. In the first stage, the war
would be ended and the government democratized by the revision of the constitution.
This revision would provide for univereal suffrage; a sovereign Diet to which the
cabinet would be responsit le; the reduction of the powers of the Emperor, the Privy
Council, the House of Peers, and the Jushin; and the guarantee of civil liberties.
In the economic sphere, the armaments industry would be liquidated, industrialization
intensified and diversified, and agriculture mechanized. Large-scale monopoly would
be placed under government control; the property of absentee landlords would be
purchased by the state and made available to poor peasants on easy terms; an eight-
hour day would be established for workers; and workers would be free to unionize and
strike.
During this period the Commmist Party would have a minimm program of anti-
militariam and democracy and would cooperate with any individuals or groups (including
capitalists) who would subscribe to these aims, regardless of their attitude toward
the rest of the progrem. The government in this stage should be composed of
representatives of all democratic groups, and the Commmists, as the only active
anti-war fighters, must be included.
A long period of time would be required for development from the stage to the
second stage, that of the achievement of the bourgeois democratic revolution. This
revolution would complete the liquidation of foudalist remmants, including the
Emperor, the nobility, the Privy Council, the House of Peers, and the Jushin, and
1. OWI, Yenan Report, No. 19, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.98)
-62 -
RESTRICTED
would establish complete democracy on a capitalistic basis. The third stage,
relogated by Nosaka to the distant future, would involve the complete liquidation
of capitaliem and the transition to socialism. This transition too would be
gradual and peaceful unless in the second stage the government had come under the
C. Japanese Radicals in Nationalist China
1. KAJI Wataru. KAJI Wataru, Nosaka's principal supporter in Nationalist
China, had at one time been secretary of the leftist Proletarian Cultural
Federation and had escaped from Japan to Shanghai in 1936 after spending some
time in prison. Primarily an artist, Kaji's activities in China appear to have
been directed almost entirely toward psychological warfare activities rather than
toward the creation of a political "Free Japan" movement such as that developed
in Yenan.
In 1939, under the patronage of General Pai Chung-hsi (then director of
Chiang Kai-shek's National Headquarters in Kweilin), Kaj1 began to indoctrinate
and train a group of fifty Japanese prisoners. In December eleven of the group
were selected to become the first Hansen Domei. A mumber of members of the Hansen
Damei were later sent to the front under Kaji'e leadership and there broadcast over
the public address system, tapped Japan,se wires, and produced leaflets that they
distributed behind the Japanese lines. In July 1940 a second Hansen Dōme1 was
formed, and in September another group of Japemese was sent to the front lines. In
1941, however, Kaji's groups were branded as Commmist-inapired; the government
withdrew its support; and the prisoners trained by Kaji were returned to their
camps. Thereafter Kaji's activities were confined almost entirely to the
1.
The Progrem of the Japanese Commmist Party. Text in OwI, Yenan Report,
No. 10, UNRESTRICTED.
2.
Office of Strategic Services, R&A Branch, China Theater, Memorandum on
Hansen Dōmei, November 1, 1944, UNRESTRICTED.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
-63-
RESTRICTED
2. AOYAMA Kazuo. Unlike Kaj1, AOYAMA Kazuo was intensely concerned with political
doctrine. An intellectual whose background is rather obscure, Aoyama himself claimed
that he had been active in a leftist trade union federation in Japan and had come to
associated with Wang Peng-sheng, the Generalissimo's adviser on Japanese affairs.
Like Kaji, Aoyama thereafter carried on a variety of peychological warfare and
intelligence activities. In addition, he engaged in private research and published
his own newspaper Kokvsai (International).2 Some time after 1937 Aoyama organized
a Japanese Democratic Committee3 in China; but in view of the circumstances in
which he operated and his own reputation as a poor leader who was incapable of
working amicably with others 1t seems unlikely that the organization did more than
serve as an outlet for Aoyama's own ideas.
In March 1944 Nosaka appeare to have invited Aoyama and his group to become
affiliated with the Nippon Jimmin Kaihō Remmei. This invitation prompted Aoyama to
embark upon an extensive criticiam of the new organization's draft program, which he
characterized as "too abstract, nagative and above all lacking in some of the most
the Emperor system, the complete overthrow of which he had long advocated.5 In his
opinion the achievement of a democratic Japan would be impossible without the
elimination of the Emperor. To allow the Emperor to remain after surrender would,
he felt, create the danger that in ten or twenty years, the Japanese militarists, the
1.
Office of Strategic Services, R&A Branch, China Theater. Memorandum on AOYAMA
Kazuo, August 1, 1945, UNRESTRICTED. Aoyama 1s also reported to have claimed
membership in the Nippon Kyosanto, but en American government official who
know him well describes Aoyama as unwilling to commit hinself on this question.
(DRF, Interview, June 19, 1945).
2.
Office of Strategic Services, R&A Branch, China Theatre. Memorandum on AOYAMA
Kazuo, August 1, 1945, UNRESTRICTED.
3.
Kokusai (Chungking), February 1, 1944.
4.
Kokusai, May 1, 1944.
5.
China Information Committee, Daily Bulletin, February 7, 1944.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
RESTRICTED
leaves and branches of a tree of which the Emperor was the root, would once again
come to power and lead Japan into war.1 Without the Emperor, on the other hand,
the Japanese militarists would have no tool for the deception of the people and the
2
world, and Japanese despotiem would have no mystic foundation.
The Emperor question continued to be a source of dispute between Nosaka and
Aoyama until after Japan's surrender. The question was to assume much greater
importance, however, when, after the occupation of Japan, the center of Japanese
left-wing activities was returned to its native soil.
1.
Kuoshih, Issue No. 5, September 1, 1944.
2.
China Information Committee, op. cit.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
- 65 -
RESTRICTED
PART TWO:
THE REVIVAL OF LEFT-WING ORGANIZATIONS IN THE PERIOD AFTER THE SURRENDER
INTRODUCTION
The aituation in which the proletarian movement was revived in Japan was
similar in some respects to that which saw its inauguretion us a political force.
The occunation produced a new political situation -- much more revolutionary in its
impect, of course, than the crant of universal manhood suffrage -- in which it was
apparent that a united party representing the interests of Japan's proletariat and
peas ntry might hope to exert considerable influence over Japan's future. The
removal of the danger of government suppression and the guarantee of civil
liberties implicit in the presence of an occupying force dedicated to the
establishment of democracy in Japan removed one factor that had militated against
the achievement of proletarian unity in the past. Prewar experience of the
disadvantages of disunity also pointed to the desirability of compromise in order
to secure united action on major issues. It was questionable, on the other hand,
to what extent such united action could be achieved in practice, since some if not
all of the factors that had prevented unity in the pest continued to be of
considerable importance.
From 1926 to 1931 the proletarian movement had developed along two main lines,
social democratic and commmist, with many divergencies within each of the two main
groups. Beginning with the 193o's, however, national socialism, closely allied with
expansionism, became increasingly important as a source of conflict within the
proletarien movement. The postwar movement has inherited the conflict between social
democracy and communism, a conflict that has been intensified by international
developments. For the immediate future, however, the issue of nationalist,
expansionist socialism has been reduced to insignificance, and the dispute of the
past is important today only so far as it jeopardizes the leadership position of th
those returning to the proleterian movement who, whether from reasons of principle
RESTRICTED

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.97)
-66 -
RESTRICTED
or expediency, actively collaboreted with the wartime government.
The organization of the Nippon Shakaitō (Socinlist Party of Japan) in November
1945 not only represented the revivel of orcanized social democracy in Japen but
also demonstrated the willin/ness of right- and left-wing social democrats end former
national socialists to bury their past differences, to some extent at least, in
order to achieve unity of action in the present and future. The revival of the
Nippon Kyōsanto (Communist Party of Japan), on the other hand and the strength
that it derived from 'ts new freedom 'ntensified conflict among the fections of
the Shakaitō by raising the un ted froni. issue to a position of creater prominence
than it had ever occupied in prewan Japon.
I.
THE NIPPON SHAKAITÖ (SOCIALJST HARTY OF JAPAN)
A.
Organization of the Party
1. Leadership. With the surrender and occupation of Japan, many of the
proletarian leaders of the past who had retired to obsecurity or been imprisoned
during the war years retwaned to active participation in political affairs. In
their efforts to reconstitute a proletarion party, they were joined by others formerly
active in the movenent who, wilike them, had made their peace with the militarists
and had participuted mcre or Jess prominently in the activities of the wautime
government.
Thus from the outset the leadership in the establishment of & new proletarian
party was taken by three groups whose differences had been apporent over a long
period of years. Farthest to the left was the group led by KATo Kanju, SUZUKI
Moseburo, ARAHATA Katsuzo, and others like them who had been outspokenly anti-war
and who constituted in the new party the faction known as the Nichi-mu-kai because
of its derivation from the prewar party, the Nippon Musantō. Another faction, the
Sha-min-kai, derived from the prewaer Shakai Minshutō, included among its leaders
those who had resisted the assult on the principles of social democracy but had been
RESTRICTED

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
-67 -
RESTRICTED
more or less inconspicuous during the war and had not taken a position sufficiently
prominent or fer to the left to subject them to personal suppression. Leaders of
this group included KATAYAMA Tetsu, NISHIO Suehiro, MIZUTANI Chosaburo, and the
venerable ABE Iso. mong the leaders of the third group, the Nichi-rō-kai faction,
derived from the prewar Nippon Ponotō, were many who had followed the leadership
of the deceased ASo Hisashi in actively collaborating with the grougs that dominated
the state during the war. This eroup included KONo Mitsu, HIRANo Rikizo, KAWAKAMI
Jotaro, and ASANUMA Inajiro.
In teneral, these divisions within the perty have continued to exist and to be
reflected in the composition of Shekaito leedership. With the pessege of time,
however, the factions that may be classified roughly as Right, Center, and Left
have developed factions within themselves based in part on issues of principle and
in pert on personel ties. To some extent, also, there have been shifts in factional
allegiance. Shifts in leadership and control of the party from one faction to
another have also been apperent, with the trend in general awey frem the original
control of the perty by rightists and centrists (with the rightists tending to
dominate) towerd control by centrists and leftists. The composition of party
leadership, finally, hes been significantly modified with the loss of both extreme
rightist. and extreme leftist elements -- the extreme rightists pertly as a result
of the purge end pertly as a result of the defection of Hirano and fifteen of his
supporters in Jenuary 1948, the extreme leftists in consequence of the doparture
from the party by defection or expulsion of Kuroda and fifteen of his followers in
July 1948.
After the formal inauguration of the Shakaitō on November 2, 1945, control of
the party remained to a very considerable degree in the hends of the group thet had
first set itself up as en errangements committee end now beceme the Shakaitō's
Central Executive Committee.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
-68-
RESTRICTED
Central Executive Committee.
The inconclusiveness of the struggle for power
among the three leeding factions of the perty in this period was demonstrated by
the inebility to select a party chairman. Centrist KATAyAM Tetsu beceme secretary
general, while the bulk of the other executive positions were held by rightists
and centrists, with the leftists in a distinct minority position.
The conspicucus preeence on the Central Executive Ccmmittee end Central
Committee in 1945 and 1946 of individuals who actively surported the wartime
government did nct pass without opposition. The eryointment of YAMazAkI
Tsumekichi to the Central Committee, for example, was opposed by the preparatory
committees of the Aichi and Shizuoka chapters of the party on the basis of his
Farly in 1946, moreover, a movement: developed smong left-wing
members of the Central Committee to cell formelly for the expulsion of such
leaders as KONO Mitsu, KAWAKAMI Jotaro, KAWAMATA Seion, MIYAKF Shoichi, and
Katsuzo, mede repeated demends for the purification of the party, right-wing
elements retaliated with determined if unsuccessful efforts to prevent Arahata
from receiving the official recognition and support of the party in his cempaign
support within the party, however, was indicated by the fact that the only
effective attack on their position came not from within but from the SCAP purge
directive of Jenuary 4, 1946 and its implementation by the Japanese Government,
which resulted in the disqualification of a number of right-wing Socialists.
Since, in 1945, the Central Executive Committee had been selected by the
preparatory committee and the list merely presented to the inaugural convention
1.
Until the national convention of September 1946, this group was known as the
Standing Committee. To avoid confusion, however, the name Central Executive
Committee, adopted at the September convention, has been used throughout. For
lists of Shakaito officers from 1945 to 1948, see Appendix B.
2.
Jiji Press release, November 16, 1945.
3.
Nippon Times, Jenuary 9, 1946; Jiji Press releases, January 7 and 8 and
February 18, 1946.
4.
Mimpo, January 22, 1946; Jij1 Press release, March 17, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
RESTRICTED
for its approval, it was not until the party convention of September 1946 that the
general membership of the Shakaito had an opportumity to participate in decisions
with regard to party leadership. The election of officers at the conveation was
regarded as an important test of the relative strength of the party's three factions,
and a good deal of maneuvering appears to have taken place both before and during
the sessions. In the elections for major positions the rightists and centrists
were victorious over the left wing, which, however, showed considerable strength.
KATAYAMA Tetsu, umopposed for the position of chairman of the Central Executive
Committee, was elected by a vote of 739 to 30, the latter votes being cast in very
small numbers for various members of the party. NIShIo Suohiro, Sha-min-kai
candidate for the office of secretary general, was elected by 427 votes to 316
for the leftist SUZUKI Mosaburo. HOSoNO Michio, a member of the Nichi-rō-kai faction,
was elected treasurer by a vote of 358 votes to 349 for MATSUMoTO Jiichiro, who had
1
become increasingly identified with the Left.
These elections took place at the final session of the convention. At the
same time presumably, the scheduled election for the Central Committee, a body of
about 2o0 members, was also held. Immediately after the final session, the Central
Committee met and selected twenty of its members to serve as the Central Executive
Committee. Three auditors and five advisers were also elected at this time. As a
result of the Central Executive Committee elections the Right once again showed
the greatest strength, with nine members as against five each for the centrist and
leftist factions. Committee chairmanships were also dominated by the rightists, who
The next major changes in the composition of party leedership or ed in
Jume 1947, when the organization of the Katayama cabinet required the appointment of
new officers to positions vacated by party members who had received cabinet posts
1.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, October 2, 1946.
2.
Jiji Pross release, October 1, 1946; Nippon Keizai Shimbun, October 2, 1946;
Mimpo, October 12, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
- 70 -
RESTRICTED
or parliementary vice-ministerships. In this reshuffle the leftists, who had been
excluded from the cabinet, were successful, with the support of the centrists, in
gaining three additional committee chairmanahipe, among them that of the extremely
influential Political Affairs Research Committee.
When the third national convention of the Shakaito opened in January 1948, a
determined left-wing offensive had been under way in the party for some time.
Although the leftists won their major victories in the convention's policy decisions,
they also made gains in the elections of party officers, aided to some extent by the
weakening of right-wing ranks as a result of the secession of the Hirano faction.
Once again Katayama's nomination to the party chairmanship was unopposed, and he
received 531 votes, with 178 of the ballots cast unmarked. Asanuma, supported by
rightists and centrists for the post of secretary general, defeated leftist Kato
by the narrow margin of 376 to 330, while centrist NAKASAKI Toshi defeated the
left-wing candidate for chief treasurer, TANAKA Shogetau, by the even more narrow
margin of 356 to 346. of the new Central Executive Committee, nine members were
2. Structure. The basic structure of the Shakaito was established at the
second national convention in September 1946 and somewhat revised at the third
national convention in January 1948.2 The highest governing body of the party is
the national convention, composed of all Socialist members of the two houses of
the Diet and representatives elected by the local branches (with one representative
for every 200 paid-up party members). At its sessions, the national convention
determines basic party policy and elects the party chairman, secretary general,
treasurer, and Central Committee. The Central Committee which also includes all
party Diet members, meets immediately after the national convention has ad journed
1.
J1j1 Press releases, January 19, 20, and 21, 1948; Mainich1 Shimbun, January 21
and 26, 1948; Mimpo, January 23, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, January 28, 1948.
2.
Since no copies of the Shakaitō constitution and by-laws are available, this
account of the structure of the party is drawn largely fron newspaper sources,
which are often vague and contradictory.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
-71-
RESTRICTED
and selects the Central Executive Committee, which thereafter appoints all other
national party officers and serves as the continuous governing body of the party
but which must call the Central Committee into session for decisions on issues of
major importance. Each prefecture has a local branch, and local units have also
been established in cities, towns, townships, and the wards of Tokyo-to and the
five big cities. According to figures submitted to the government as required by
law, the Shakaito had 98,906 members in March 1948 and 591 1ocal branches in April
1
of that year.
Within the Shakaito, the Youth Department, composed of all party members under
thirty, i a semi-autonomous body. It has its own national convention, central
committee, and central executive committee, and at the third national convention of
the Shakaitō won the right to recommend its own chairman, hitherto appointed by the
2
party's Central Executive Committee without such recommendation.
3. Finances. Ordinary party members pay annual dues of 30 yen, with one-third
of this amount going to local headquarters, one-third to prefectural headquarters,
and one-third to national headquarters. Socialists who are members of prefectural
or municipal assemblies pay dues of 50o yen a month. Shakaftō income from all
sources in the period July 29 to August 31, 1948 was reported to the government
as 533,341 yen. Contribution offers must be approved by the Centrel Executive
Committee. Subsequent to the Nishio and other acandals in 1948, the Shakaito
1.
Asahi Shimbun, September 19 and 29, 1946; J1j1 Shimpo, September 19 and 25,
1946, January 15, 1948; Jij1 Press releases, September 30, 1947, January 7 and
12, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, January 13, 1948.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, Jume 23, 1947 and January 12, 1948; Shaka1 Shimbun,
July 7, 1947 and July 7, 1948.
3.
Tokyo Shimbun, July 12 and November 1, 1948; Kyodo release, November 9, 1948;
Kyoto Nichi Nichi, November 10, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
-72-
RESTRICTED
B. Program and Policy
1
1. General Objectives and Strategy. The long-term objectives of the Shakaito
are the achievement of a democratic socialiem in which the basic means of production
and distribution will be socialized and small-scale enterprise will be organized as
far as possible on a cooperative basis. These objectives are to be realized through
the attainment of a parliamentary majority and the utilization of parliamentary
machinery to effect economic reform. Like the Communists, the Socialists regard
trade unions and other non-party organizations as important channels for the spread
of their influence and as outlets for the expression of their economic and political
aims. They differ, however, both from the Commmists and among themselves, with
regard to the weight that they place upon parliementary as opposed to extra-
parliamentary tactics. Among right-wing Socialiste there is a tendency to rely.
heavily on party politics and to regard the trade unions, for political purposes,
as sources of numerical strength rather than leadership. The leftists, on the other
hand, tend to look with greater favor upon extra-parliamentary political leaderehip
by the trade unions and more readily accept the techmique of mass pressure as a
mothod of influencing government policy.
2. Political
a. The Emperor question. The Shakaitō early committed 1tself to the
principle that democratic socialism could be attained under an Emperor who was shorn
of all actual political power.2 Despite some initial uncertainty with regard to
the Emperor question and despite the fact that the Central Executive Committee's
willingness to accept retention of the Emperor was one element in the much-publicized
1. In this section, major attention is focused on long-term policy. Shakaitō
attitudes toward various immediate issues are discussed in Parts Three and
Four.
2. Jij1 Press release, December 5, 1945; Mainich1 Shimbun, December 10, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
- 73 -
RESTRICTED
Individual Socialists -- TAKANO Iwasaburo and MATSUMOTO Jiichiro, for example --
have expressed themselves forcibly as favoring a republican form of government for
Japan, but this question, unlike others, has not been the occasion for a split
between the left and right wings. In point of fact one of the strongest Socialist
statements in favor of retaining the Emperor was made by KATo Kanju himself, who
declared:
"From the standpoint of modern legal theory, democracy may be
irreconcilable with the Japanese national structure. From the earliest
period down to recent times, however, the Emperor has always been
regarded as head of the national family, and the relation between the
Emperor and the people has never been that of the conqueror and the
conquered.
"From this point of view, Japanese monarchy and democracy are
perfectly compatible with each other. It should rather be said that
democracy with the Emperor as head of the national family is the true
tradition of Japan. It has always been the class or classes intervening
between the Emperor and the people that prevented the development of
national government in the direction of democracy. Owing to the
influence of the intervening classes, no political reform in the past
has been thorough. A radical reconstruction of national government is,
therefore abeolutely necessary, but the Emperor will remain as a symbol
of national reverence."2
b. Constitutional reform. In prewar Japan the proletarian parties had been
limited by fear of government suppression to demanas for basic political reform
couched in the most general of terme. They had, however, consistently favored
enlargement of the suffrage, removal of restrictione on civil liberties, and
enhancement of the power of parliamentary institutions.
1. In December 1945 ON0 Shunichi, a member of the Shakaito Central Committee, wrote
an open letter to the Yomiuri Hochi criticizing as despotic Central Executive
Committee instructions to local party branches to refrain from united front
activities and to support the policy of retaining the Emperor but drastically
curtailing his functions. At a Central Comittee meeting the following month the
position of the Central Executive Committee on the Emperor was upheld, and Ono
apologized for the methods he had employed in making known his complaints.
((Mainichi Shimbun, December 5, 1945, Jamuary 8, 1946; Yomiuri Hochi, December 11
and 15, 1945, January 7, 1946.)
2. Nippon Times, December 2, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
- 74 -
RESTRICTED
Shortly after its organization, the Shakaits put forward a number of concrete
proposals for basic reform. Among the reforms proposed were: the enactment of a
democratic constitution according to the will of the people; the reduction of the
Emperor's prerogatives; the abolition of the imperial power to issue emergency
ordinances; the amendment of the Imperial House Law; the abolition of the Privy
Council and the office of Lord Privy Seal; abolition of the peerage; the establishment
of cabinet responsibility to the Diet; the elimination of the government's power to.
enforce the budget of the preceding year if the Diet refused to pass the proposed
budget; the retention of a bicameral legislature, with one house to be based on
regional and one on functional representation; the establishment of proportional
representation and of universal suffrage at the age of eighteen; the expansion of
civil liberties; the revision of the constitutional amendment process; and the
1
election of local officials.
In January 1946 the Shakaito put forward 1ts own draft proposals for a
revised constitution, a policy also followed by the Liberal and Progressive
Parties. All of these draft proposals were both brief and vague. of the drafts
of the three major parties, however, that of the Socialists was the most detailed
and represented the greatest departure from tradition. In the Socialist draft
sovereignty was defined as resting in the state, defined as the national community
including the Emperor. The Emperor's powers, moreover, were clearly circumscribed,
the Socialist draft differing from the others in specifying what the Emperor might
do rather than merely enumerating which of his prerogatives were to be abolished.
Thus it was provided that the Prime Minister was to be eppointed by the Emperor,
who was required to abide by the recommendation of the presidents of both houses.
Similarly, the Emperor was to sign treaties and laws approved by the Diet but could
1. Dome1 Press release, 0ctober 2, 1945; Mainichi Shimbun, January 19, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
RESTRICTED
not veto them. The section on the Emperor concluded with the statement that he was
to have no political responsibility and that succession to the throne and establishmont
of a regency were to require the approval of the Diet.
The Socialist draft provided for a bicameral legislature, with members of the
upper house elected on a functional basie. The Diet was to have the powers of
legislation, of directing and supervising administration, of approving treaties, of
approving state revenue and expenditures, and of introducing amendmente to the
constitution. The lower house was empowered to overrule the veto of the upper on all
legislation, and the Diet as a whole might be dissolved by plebiscite. A standing
committee was to act for the Diet during recesses. The cabinet was to be responsible
to the Diet. Its functions were to include the conduct of foreign relations, internal
administration, law enforcement, and appointment of officials. The Privy Council was
to be abolished.
The Socialist draft's bill of rights provided for inviolable civil liberties.
In addition, the draft contained a number of provisions with regard to the obligations
owed by the state to the people, particularly in the economic field, and subjected
the right of owmership to limitations for the general welfare. No provision was made
for judicial review. Judges were to be independent and appointed by the cabinet
The Shakaito greeted the government's draft constitution, published in March
1946, with general approval, saying that the government's proposals were progressive,
aimilar to those of the Socialiste, and in accord with the principlee of the Potsdam
Declaration. The party did, however, criticize the dreft for including too many
items under the Emperor's prerogatives, for neglecting to make clear provisions for
the length of the Diet session and the composition of the House of Councillors, and
2
for failing to abolish the peerage.
Jiji Press rolaase, February 25, 1946.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, March 8, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
RESTRICTED
It soon became evident, however, that internally the party was in disagreement
both with regard tc the timing of Diet discussions of the constitution and with regard
to the amendments that might be proposed by the Shakaitō. The former controversy was
the first to arise and was resolved before the opening of the 90th Diet on June 25,
1946.
The question of timing was first considered by the Shakaito's Constitutional
Committee, composed of SUZUKI Yoshio (chairman), KATAYAMA Tetsu, HARA Hyo, MIZUTANI
Chosaburo, KURODA Hisao, and KIKUCHI Yonosuke. Suzuki, Hara, and Kuroda were
reported to be strong advocates of postponement of consideration of the draft until
a special Diet session could be convoked that would devote itself exclusively to this
problem. This move, they argued, would give both the people and their representatives
time to exemine and discuss the proposals and would lead to the production of a more
1
democratic document.
These arguments apparently convinced the Constitutional Committee, which
recommended to the Central Executive Committee that the Shakaito propose postponement.
The Central Executive Committee, however, rejected this recommendation, influenced in
1ts stand perhaps by the fact that a government emissary had already requested the
party's cooperation and, it is reported, had indicated that in return the Liberals
2
end Progressives would support Socialist-proposed amendments.
The question of the nature of these amendments remained undecided, however.
The crux of the controversy was the question of the draft constitution's definition
of the locus of sovereignty. Apparently there was general agreement within the party
that the dreft was regrettably vague on this score but there was considerable
disagreement as to whether the Socialists should introduce an amendment clearly
stating that sovereignty rested in the people. The left wing, on the whole, was
1.
Jij1 Press release, May 31, 1946; Mimpo, June 7, 1946.
2.
J1ji Press releases, June 10, 17, and 25, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, June 19, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
RESTRICTED
strongly in favor of introducing an amendment to this effect, but the right was
hesitant, apparently fearing that the issue was too controversial to be dealt with
in so forthright a fashion.
Controveray within the party on this subject continued until late July.
Meanwhile, in the plenary sessions of the Diet, Socialist interpellators pressed
after long and heated debates, the Socialist Diet members passed a resolution
accepting the government's explanation of the proposed constitutional provisions as
On the following day, however, the
party was thrown into turmoil by the anmouncement that the Liberals and Progressives
proposed to introduce an amendment that would state specifically that sovereignty
Constitutional Committee, and thereafter the Socialists were placed in the somewhat
embarrassing position of reversing their original stand and seeking unsuccessfully
to force the Liberals and Progressives to agree to make the definition of
sovereignty the first article in the constitution.
The Shakaito was more fortunate in some of its other mendment proposals, which
were ultimately accepted and included in the constitution. Amendments so accepted
included: a provision for immodiate abolition of the peerage; the insertion of a
phrase, preceding the renunciation of war in Article 9, to the effect that the
Japanese favor an international peace based on justice and order; the insertion of
a phrase guaranteeing a minimm standard of life; the provision that the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court should receive his appointment from the Emperor in
order to demonstrate that his position is equal in dignity to that of the Premier;
1. House of Representatives, 90th Session, Official Gazette Extra, No. 2, June 22,
1946; No. 6, Juno 27, 1946; No. 7, Jumo 28, 1946.
2.
J1j1 Press release, July 24, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, July 25, 1946.
3.
J1j1 Pross release, July 26, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
- 78 -
RESTRICTED
and insertion of a phrase in Article 25 that would add to the right to work already
guaranteed the obligation to do so.
Other amendments that were proposed by the Socialists but were not accepted by
the Diet included provisions requiring the approval of the Diet for the enthronement,
dethronement, or abdication of the Emperor or the appointment of a regent;
transferring from the Emperor to the cabinet the functions of promulgating
constitutional amendments, laws, cabinet orders, and treaties, convoking the Diet,
dissolving the House of Representatives, and proclaiming general elections; subjecting
property rights to further restrictions; and guaranteeing higher education at the
c. The Diet. Before the passage of the House of Councillors Election Law
in December l946, the Socialists urged that the upper house be constituted on a
vocationsl basis. When it became apparent, however, that the Socialist proposals
to this end put forward in August 1946 had no chance of success, the Shakaitō
suggested a number of alterations in the bill than under discussion in the House of
Representatives. The proposed changes included: the elimination of the single
national constituency; the election of all members of the House of Councillors from
prefectural election districte; the replacement of the single ballot by a plural
ballot; and the application to upper house candidate eloction expenses of the
Like their previous
suggestions concerning the House of Councillors, however, these Socialist proposals
were not accepted. Although in principle supporting a large constituency and
proportional representation for elections to the House of Representatives, in
practice the Socialists fought vigorously, if unsuccessfully, for retention of the
medium-sized constituency and plural ballot adopted in 1946 and d1scarded in 1947 in
1.
Asahi Shimbun, Jume 27, 1946; J1j1 Pross releases, July 10, August 11, and
August 16, 1946.
2.
Jij1 Press release, Decomber 22, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
RESTRICTED
favor of smaller constituencies and a single ballot. In 1948, when revisions of the
olection law were again under discussion, the Socialists reiterated their support
of the plural ballot and, in addition, proposed extensive public management and
1
financing of election campaigns.
d. Local government. With regard to local government, the program of the
Shakaito adopted in September 1946 called for popular eloction and recall of local
governors, transfer of substantial administrative powers from the national to the
local governments, increase in the powers of the local assemblies, and the
the Shakaito added to its program a demand that Japan's prefectures be reorganized
with a view to equalizing population and territory and the number of prefectures be
3. Economic
a. Industry. The aim of the Shakaitō is the achievement of a planned
socialist economy. To this end the party urges the socialization of such major
means of production and distribution as the iron industry, the coal mines, the
chemical fertilizer industry, the railroads, the electrical industry, and large
4
shipping industries.
For the short-term solution of Japan's economic ills and as a step toward
ultimate socialization, the Socialists have proposed a syatem of state control of
exports through the planned production of raw materials and the regulation of their
distribution to processors, the expansion of production of raw materials and
manufactured goods through development of hydroelectric power resources, and the
1.
Asahi Shimbum, Apr1l 8, 1948.
2.
Ibid., September 29, 1946.
3.
Mimpo, January 11, 1948.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, September 25, 1946; Tokyo Shimbun, Jamuary 17, 1948.
5.
Socialist attempts to apply this principle to the coal industry are described
below, p. 211.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
- 80 -
RESTRICTED
improvement of transportation facilities. Machinery for the implementation of these
plans would incude a Supreme Economic Council to determine general policies,
subsidiary councils for each industry, and technical agencies of various kinds. At
each level of planning or supervision trade-union representatives, as well as
Perhaps in the hope of increasing their middle-class support, the Socialists
have adopted a sympathetic approach toward the problems of small industry. In Jume
1946 the party published a report, prepared by its research staff, that proposed a
number of measures for improving the condition of small industry. Among these
measures were: protection of small industry from the oppression of large industry
and finance capital; exchange of industrial techniques among small industries and
government aid in the development of improved techniques; collective purchasing and
sale; increased mechanization and cooperative utilization of machinery; and
2
adoption of profit-sharing schemes.
b. Finance. The long-term financial program of the Shakaito calls for the
socialization of all banks and insurance companies.3 As in the case of industry,
however, the Socialiste have advanced a number of short-term plans for expansion of
state supervision of financial institutions and for checking inflation. With regard
to state supervision of the banking system, the Socialists have called for the
establishment of a Banking Control Committee to be headed by the Finance Minister
and, with its subsidiary organs, to be responsible for policies with regard to the
issuance of currency, the establishment of interest rates, and the utilization of
funds. Democratization of individual financial institutions is to be enforced
through the elimination of monopoly shareholders, publicity for banking operations,
1.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, September 1, 1947; Shakai Shimbun, September 1 and 6, 1947.
2.
Nippon Keizaf Shimbun, June 29, 1946; Tokyo Shimbun, January 17, 1948.
3.
Asah1 Shimbun, Soptember 25, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
RESTRICTED
and selection of half of the managers of each banking enterprise from among its
graduated income taxes, heavy taxation of large inheritances, heavy taxes on war
and black-market profits, taxation of non-essential luxury buildings, and abolition
or reduction of taxes that strike particularly at lower income groups.
2
c. Iabor. As a party primarily concerned with the interests of the
working class, the Shakaito has given considerable attention to labor problems.
The party program adopted in September 1946 sets forth the following general
objectives: establishment of a Labor Ministry; establishment of the right of labor
to a guaranteed livelihood; establishment of the right to strike; promotion of
cooperation between labor unions and farm unions; democratic education of workere;
participation of workers in management; establishment of a minimum wage system;
establishment of a 36-hour week in the mines and a 48-hour week in other industries;
On September 5, 1946, the Labor Relations Adjustment Law was passed by the
lower house of the Diet over Shakaitō opposition. The Socialists objected to the
law on the grounds that, instead of attempting to remove the causes of strikes, it
sought to suppress strikes. This objection was directed specifically against
provisions in the law that they interpreted as limiting strikes by workers in
"public welfare" industries and prohibiting strikes by certain types of government
workers. To the government argument that the requirement that a thirty-day cooling
off period precede strikes in public welfare industries was common in other
industrialized countries, the Socialiets retorted that the trade-union movement in
those countries, in contrast to that of Japan, was sufficiently strong to protect
1.
Yomiur1 Shimbun, February 19, 1947; Jiji Press release, January 12, 1948;
Mainich1 Shimbun, January 13, 1948.
2.
Yomiuri Hochi, January 21 and February 18, 1946; N1ppon Ke1za1 Shimbun,
August 7, 1946; Kyodo releases, August 22 and September 14, 1947; Asahi
Shimbun, August 12, 1948.
3.
Asahi Shimbun, September 25, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
- 82 -
RESTRICTED
the workers againet abuse of such legislation. In addition, they pointed out, no
worker could justifiably be deprived of the right to strike unless he were
When the Labor Standards Bill was considered by a subcommittee of the Diet's
Legislative Investigation Council, the Socialists on the committee joined with the
Communist representative in a minority amendment proposal. In this minority report
it was urged that Chapter 1 of the proposed bill be made a labor charter guaranteeing
such rights as the right to strike; that provisions be inserted prohibiting
compulsory labor and limiting labor in penitentiaries to work that would educate
those engaged in it; that labor contracts be so regulated as to preclude mass
discharges; that provision be made for adjusting wages to price fluctuations; that
the working day be fixed at eight houre, including one hour of rest; that the
midnight shift be prohibited except where absolutely necessary, as in the
transportation field; that the clause in the proposed bill allowing the appropriate
minister to suspend prohibitions against employment of women and juveniles in the
midnight shift be deleted; that labor inspectors be elected by trade unions rather
than selected from among regular government officials; and that a syatem of social
insurance be adopted simultaneously with the enforcement of labor standards
logielation.2
Although warmly supporting the right to strike in principle, the Shakaitō,
particularly its right wing, has been somewhat less than enthusiastic in its
support of actual strikes. Socialist reluctance to endorse strikes, particularly
the major industry-wide strikes frequently referred to as "general strikes," has
arisen from a number of factors. In the first place, the perilous condition of the
Japanese economy has led the Socialiets to place considerable stress on the need for
1. House of Representatives, 90th Session, Official Gazette Extra, No. 41,
September 6, 1946.
2.
Asahi Shimbun, August 11, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.98)
-83 -
RESTRICTED
industrial recovery. Secondly, they fear that the immaturity of the trade-union
movement in Japan may lead it into extensive strike activity and at the same time
render it incapable of conducting strikes successfully. Finally, the Socialists,
particularly the right wing, have beoe convinced that in many cases the Commnists
are seeking to utilize strikes to further their own political ends, a tactic that
the Socialists regard as dangerous to the ultimate interests of the working class.
d. Agriculture. The Socialist program adopted in September 1946 called
for reform in the landholding system, including rationalization of land distribution,
collectivization and mechanization of agriculture, establishment of the farmers'
right to till the soil, and drastic reduction of farm rents. It called also for
the encouragement of cooperatives in agriculture, forestry, and the fishing industry
and for the enactment of laws establishing the right to farmers and fishermen to
unionize. The Shakaito strongly supports socialization of the fertilizer industry
1
and aleo advocates state establishment of a system of agricultural insurance.
Existing land reform legislation has been severely criticized by the Socialists,
who have opposed provisions allowing landlords to retain a maximum of 1 chobu of land
(4 chobu in Hokkaido)? and who have argued that premature publication of reform plens
in l946 led to the expropriation of many tenants by landlords who sought to establish
themselves as owner-cultivators in order to retain a greater quantity of their land.3
The so-called third land reform program advocated by the Shakaito to supplement the
land reform legislation of 1945 and 1947 calls for the complete expropriation of
landowners who do not cultivate their own land, further limitation of the amount of
land that can be held by owner-cultivators, acceleration of the reclamation and
conversion to agricultural purposes of waste land and forests, alteration of the
1.
Asah1 Shimbun, September 25, 1946.
2.
1 chobu - 2.45 acres.
3.
The House of Representatives, 90th Session, Official Gazette Extra, No. 43,
September 11, 1946, pp. 2-7.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
-84-
RESTRICTED
composition of the farmland committees to reduce landlord representation and
increase that of owner-cultivators, and the encouragement of agricultural
1
cooperatives.
4. Foroign. The Socialist program on foreign affairs calls for the abolition
of secret diplomacy and the development of people's diplomacy; the execution of
international obligations based on the Potsdam Declaration; participation in the
United Nations and other international organizations; cooperation with Socialist
parties and proletarian organizations in other countries; and world disarmament
and the establishment of lasting peace without opprossion or exploitation.2 In
August 1948 the Shakaito inaugurated a campaign for an early peace treaty. In a
resolution published on August 17 the Socialists called for a treaty that would
establish national independence and autonomy, provide for an economic rehabilitation
plan, allow for the realization of economic democracy in place of capitaliam, restore
Japan's rights to participate in international trade and maintain an adequate
merchant marine, settle the reparations issue on the basis of the necessity for
maintaining minimum living standards, and permit Japan to participate in the United
Nation's, the Bretton Woods Agreement, the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), and the World Federation of Trade Unions.
Japan's future security, the Socialists urged, should be based upon full
participation in the UN system of collective security rather than upon permanent
neutralization or dependence upon any single power.3
5. Social
a. Education and related fields. The Socialist program for education
calls for increased emphasis on vocational, scientific, technical, and social
1.
Contemporary Japan, Vo1. XVI, No. 1-3, January-March, 1947; Nippon Keizai
Shimbun, September 27, 1948.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, September 25, 1946.
3.
Shakai Shimbun, August 11, 1948; Kyodo release, August 16, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun,
August 17, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
85-
RESTRICTED
studies; expansion of state financial support of education to the point where all
expenses from primary school through university are borne by the government;
improved treatment of school teachers and an increase in their numbers; free
lunches for school children; an increase in the number of playgrounds, libraries,
theaters, and museums for school children, state subsidization of scholarly
research; and a more equal distribution of universities throughout the country.
The Shakaito also advocates free absorption of world culture; creation of
a new culture for Japan based on the dignity of the individual; encouragement of
local culture; preservation of art and national monuments for the public benefit;
establishment of national museums, art galleries, theaters, and libraries; support
for art and artists and recognition of the freedom of art; enlargement of public
recreational facilities and the popularization of sports; simplification of the
Japanese language; adoption of Esperanto as an international language; and
b. Women and the family. The Shakaitō stands for complete equality
between men and women. The party demands, therefore, the alteration of all laws,
institutions, and customs that interfere with such equality; the abandonment of
feudalistic aspects of the family system; equal educational and employment
opportunities and equality of treatment for men and women; and the spread of
political education among women. They also call for the dissemination of birth
control information and the development of public facilities for the feeding and
1.
Asahi
Shimbun, September 25, 1946; Shakai Shimbun, September 8, 1948.
2.
Agahi
Shimbun, September 25, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
-86-
RESTRICTED
II. THE NIPPON KYÖSANTÖ (COMMUNIST PARTY OF JAPAN)
A.
Orgenization of the Party
1. Leadership. The revival of Communist activities on Japanese soil began
with the SCAP directive of October 1945 ordering the release of politicel
prisoners. The leadership of the revived Kyōsantō, like that of the Shakeitō, has
since rested largely in the hands of veteran members of the party. Even before
their release from prison, TOKUDA Kyuichi and SHIGA Yoshio assumed the leadership
of the party and acted as its spokosmen, but 1t was not until December 1945 that
their position was formalized with the election of the Central Committee at the
Fourth National Congress. At this Congress, attended by 500 party members, Tokuda
was elected General Secretary and chairman of the Political Organization Committee,
while Shiga was elected to the seven-member Central Committee.
It was nevertheless generally believed at this time that the supreme leadership
of the party would ultimately be assumed by the exiled Japanese Commmist leader
NOSAKA Sanzo, who, at the time of the Fourth Congress, had not yet returned from
Yenan. The plausibility of this expectation was reinforced by a statement made
by party headquarters at the time of Nosaka's return in January: "We have noted
Comrade Nosaka's newspaper statement that he will work as one of the party members
from now on...we intend to have him as our supreme leader. This is the opinion and
desire of all."1 On the other hand, the fact that the views he erpressed in Yenan,
particularly on the Emperor question, differed significantly from those that had
been advanced by the Nippon Kyosantō in the months preceding his arrival appeared to
be a factor that might militate against Nosaka's elevation to party leadership.
In February 1946 the Kyosantō held its Fifth National Congress in Tokyo with
1.
Kyodo in Kana, January 13, 1946; cf. also Mainichi Shimbun, January 14, 1946.
2.
Akahata, February 8, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
-87 -
RESTRICTED
In the interval between his return and the Fifth Congress, Nosaka had taken the
leed in seeking Socialist participation in the united front, but on January 29 the
Socialists reaffirmed their decision to postpone further consideration of the
united front until after the elections.1 Communist policy statements during thie
period, however, were sufficiently vague and contradictory to leave in doubt the
question as to whether, despite the failure of united front overtures, Nosaka's
Yenan policy had prevailed; whether, under changed circumstances, Nosaka had seen
fit to modify his proposals in a direction acceptable to Tokude and Shiga; or
whether a controversy had developed that, although still unresolved, was veiled by
party discipline.
The events of the Fifth National Congress certainly appeared to establish
Tokude rather than Nosaka in the position of leadership. Tokuda continued to occupy
not only the position of Secretary General but also that of Chief of the Organization
Guidance Section. In the latter capacity, according to the party statutes, he had
under his jurisdiction the activities of all party organizers throughout Japan, of
the Labor-Union, Farmers', and Women's Sections, and of the Party School, of which
Nosaka was named principal. In addition Nosaka was made a member of the party's
party's Sixth National Congrese in December 1947 Tokuda was once again named
Secretary General, while Nosaka continued as a member of the Political Bureau and
merely a titular one and that Nosaka, by virtue of his popularity, his long and
intimate relations with the Comintern and the Chinese Communist Party, and the
degree to which he is recognized as the expositor of party theory, actually
1. Cf. p. 137.
2.
Akahata, March 26, 1946.
3. Jiji Press release, December 26, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
-88-
RESTRICTED
controls the Kyosantō. On the other hand, there has been no indication in the
development of party policy that this is actually the case, although there is some
reason to believe that the assumed continued controversy between the two leaders
has been somewhat exaggerated.1 It is interesting to note, in this connection,
that none of the principal party officers since the surrender can be definitely
identified as a former prisoner of war trained in Yenan who returned with Nosaka
to Japan.
2
2. Structure. The regulations governing the organization and procedure of the
Kyosanto are, on the whole, similar to those prevailing in Communist parties elsewhere.
They provide for firm control at the top based on a hierarchy of regional, prefectural
and district organizations resting ultimately on the local unit, the cell. Organized
penetration of non-Commumist groups is the responsibility of the fractions set up
wherever three or more Communists are members of a trade union, cooperative,
cultural group, or similar organization. These fractions, in turn, like the cells,
are responsible to the district, prefectural, regional, and central committees.
Decisions of the higher organizations are binding on the lower, and a party decision,
once made, must be obeyed unconditionally, with criticiam possible only within the
party and then on a very limited basis.
According to the Kyosanto constitution, adopted at the Fifth Congress of the
party in February 1946 and amended at the Sixth Congress in December 1947,3 the
national congress is theoretically the highest organ of the party. Meeting once a
1.
See Section II, B, below.
2.
It should be remembered that many of these prisoners of war had little education
and no political experience outside Yenan and consequently would be unsuitable
for positions of national leadership. This description, however, might equally
well be applied to a number of the members of the Kyōsantō Central Committee and
to many of the candidate members. It is, of course, possible that the best-
trained members of Nosaka's Yenan group remained in China or have engaged entirely
in underground activities since their return to Japan. On January 6, 1946 the
Asahi Shimbun reported that OKADA Bunkichi, elected to the Central Committee in
1946 and to the Control Committee in 1947, returned from Yenan with Nosaka.
Evidence on this score is far from conclusive, however.
3. Sae Akahata, March 26, 1946, and Zene1, April 1948, for texts.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
- 89 -
RESTRICTED
year, the party congress is composed of members of the Central and Control Committees,
candidate members of the Central Committee, and prefectural representatives selected
according to a ratio established by the Centrel Committee. Emergency sessions may
be called at the demand of one-third of the members of the Central Committee or one-
half of the delogates to the preceding party congress. At its sessione, the national
congress discusses the reports of the Central and Control Committees, decides the
basic policies of the party, examines and amends the party's regulations and platform,
and electe the Central and Control Committees. Three party congresses have been held
since the surrender -- the Fourth in November 1945, the Fifth, an extraordinary
At least, once in the interval between party congresses, the party's national
conference must be called into session to discuss urgent questions of party policy.
Meetings of the national conference are attended by members and candidate membera
of the Central Committee as well as by local party officials. In the three sessions
held between the 1946 and 1947 congresses, questions of party strategy were
exhaustively discussed and the ground work was laid for many of the decisions
reached at the Sirth Congress.
The Central Committee, elected annually by the party congress, has been
steadily enlarged and now includes twonty-five members as against twenty after the
statute must meet more than once every month, directs all party activities in the
intervals between national meetings, represents the party in negotiations with
other parties and organizations, establishes the necessary departmente ana committees
in party headquarters, administers party finances, appoints the editorial staffs of
the various party publications, and elects from among its members the Secretary General
1. No public explanation has ever been offered for the lapse of much more than a year
between the Fifth and Sixth Congresses.
2. For membership lists, see Appendix B.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
- 90 -
RESTRICTED
and the small and powerful Political Bureau and Secretariat. Candidate members of
the Central Committee are selected by the party congress and fill any vacancies that
may arise in the Central Committee.
The ten-member Control Comaittee, police force of the Kyōsantō, is also elected
by the party congress. This committee is charged with enforcing party regulatione,
investigating violatione, and supervising the enforcement of Central Committee
decisions at all levels of the party.
The structure of the three major local divisions of the Kyōsanto -- regional
prefectural, and district -- repeats on a smaller scale that of the national
organization. Prefectural committees and their subdivisions, the district committees,
have been in existence since the revival of the party; the regional committees, nine
discussion at preceding party conferences in an attempt to coordinate local activities
and to improve liaison with central headquarters. For the latter purpose, members
of the national Central Committee have been permanently aseigned to each of the
regional committees.
The cells are the base of the party structure formed wherever there are three
or more Kyosanto members in a neighborhood, community, school, or business enterprise.
Renemed "squads" by the Sixth National Congrees, these groups carry on the day-to-day
activities of the party under the direction of higher organs, recruit and train
members, propagandize through personal contacts and publications, and seek to
influence non-members by participating in and leading maes organizations and movements.
Similarly basic to the party structure, although somewhat out of the direct line of
the hierarchy, are the fractions. These organizatione, ronamed "groups" by the Sixth
1. In accord with traditional Japanese regional divisions, these committees were
set up for the following areas: Tokai, Kansai, Chugoku, Kanto, Hokuriku, Tohoku,
Hokkaido, and Kyuahu.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
- 91 -
RESTRICTED
National Congress, are set up wherever there are three or more party members in a
trade union, cooperative, cultural organization or similar body for the purpose of
bringing the organization so penetrated under Kyōsantō influence or control.
3. Membership. Kyōsanto members are defined by the party constitution as those
who accept the party program, enter a party organization, and pay party dues regularly.
Members are under the obligation to abide by party regulations and policy, participate
in party activities, popularize the party and its views by taking part in mass
organizations, and study the works of Marx and Lenin.
Applicants for party membership must be recommended by two Kyosanto members, who
thenceforth are held responsible for their recommendations. Candidates for membership
are diecussed by the cells and must be approved by the district committee and, in
some cases, by the Central Committee before their admission to the party. As this
process indicates, the Kyōsanto, regarding 1tself as a disciplined vanguard group, is
more selective in its membership policy than is usually the case with political
parties. There is some reason to believe, however, that the party, in the interests
of broadening its memberehip, has recently tended to place emphasis upon indoctrination
after rather than before admission to the party. In a Kyosantō round-table in March
1948, Nosaka declared:
"The Communist Party is a vanguard everywhere. About forty or fifty
years ago the Russian Commmist Party was illegal and the Commmists, when
discovered, were cast into prison. Under such conditions members who were
not carefully selected readily bowed before the enemy. Thie was also true
in prewar and wartime Japan. However, because in Japan the Kyōsantō is now
no longer illegal, the method of selecting party members must be somewhat
different. Today when the party is legaily making advances into the masses,
numerical strength is necessary, and our objective is a membership of
1,000,000. Otherwise we can accomplish nothing. Therefore, it 1s
unreasonable to ask for as careful selection of present party members as in
the days when our party was banned by law. We must first get them into the
party and then make good party members of thom through training within the
party."1
1.
Atarashii Seka1, March 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
- 92 -
RESTRICTED
In March 1948, the Home Ministry, with which Japanese political parties are
required to list membership statistics, reported Kyōsanto membership as 18,088.
This figure, of course, does not necessarily include underground members.
4. Finances. Party regulations require that all Kyosanto members other than
those without fixed incomes pay 1 percent of their income to the party in the form
of dues. Other open sources of party funds include contributions and income from
publications and other enterprises. Home Ministry figures for the year 1946-47
give the income of the Kyosantō from contributions as 13,548,10l yen, as opposed
to 12,287,874 yen for the Liberals and 6,106,989 yen for the Democrats. These
figures are somewhat misleading, however, since they represent only amounts
actually reported by the parties and are not likely to be either partioularly
honest or particularly complete and since they do not include the contributions,
frequently very substantial where the major parties are concerned, to individual
party members for election and other purposes.
5. Publications. An important channel for dissemination of Kyōsantō propaganda,
party decisions, and campaign plans are the party publications, national and local.
One of the most important of these is Akahata (Red Flag) the party's newspaper,
published every three days until October 1, 1947 and daily thereafter. In November
Two more specialized organs are Zene1 (Vanguard) and Atarashi1 Sekai (New World),
both of which concentrate on questions of party strategy and tactics. In November
1947 Zene1's circulation was reported as 20,000,2 and in Apr11 1948 Atarashii Sekai
In addition, the party publishes a
number of periodicals on varying intellectual levels designed to appeal to special
groups. Such publications include Chosa Jiho (Research Report), technical Journal
1.
Bunka Shimbun, November 12, 1947.
2.
Ibid.
3.
SCAP, CI&E Publ1cations Analysis, No. 165, Apr1l 27, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
. - 93 -
RESTRICTED
covering international political and economic developments, Kagaku to Gijutsu
(Science and Mechanics), which seeks to link Communist doctrine and scientific
problems, and Taishu Kurabu (Masses Club), designed to appoal to the masses and
including stories and practical information as woll as propaganda.
B. Strategy and Tactics
1. Introduction. From the time of its revival to the present, the Nippon
Kyosanto has insisted that it seeks to bring about through peaceful democratic
means first the bourgeois democratic revolution and then the socialist revolution.
The publication of the party program following the Fifth Congress was an attempt
to impress this policy on the public mind and to correct what were regarded as
popular misapprehensions concerning Commmist addiction to extreme and immediate
change and to violent and dictatorial methods.
1
Public adherence by the Kyosanto to a policy of peaceful revolution has, however,
neither dispelled popular misgivings with regard to the real intentions of the
Commnist nor prevented dissension within the party as to strategy and tactice.
Party discussion of such problems has been conducted at great length in Communist
publications and has included in its scope wordy and not particularly searching
analyses of the nature of imperialiem in general, of Japanese imperialism in
particular, end of the applicability of Lenin's analysis of the Seven Years' War to
post-surrender Japan.
That the question has also been discussed privately and
perhaps more pointedly may be aesumed, and the rumors of disagreements and potential
aplits in Commmist ranks that appear so frequently in the Japanese press generally
describe such disagreements as revolving around the strategy of peaceful revolution.
The weakness of Jepanese theoretical arguments, in comparison with those published
1. Yomiuri Hoch1, February 8, 1946; Mimpo, February 9, 1946; Asahi Shimbun,
February 12, 1946.
2.
See, for example, uhe prolonged debate between SHIGA Yoahio and KAMIYAMA Shigeo
in Akahata and Zene1 1n the poriod June to December 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
- 94 -
RESTRICTED
by Communist parties elsewhere, may provide a basis for the belief that the Nippon
Kyosanto suffers from the same ideological backwardness that marked its prewar
history and may again require foreign intervention before its line is firmly
established. At this time, however, the evidence of Communist publications points
to the conclusion that, whatever factional lines may be drawn in the course of
controversies over strategy, it is Nosake, whether because of his international
connections, his determining voice in theoretical questions, or his superor
lucidity, who serves as the public exponent of whatever position may be adopted
privately in party councils.
According to Nosaka, there have been two erroneous approaches to questions of
strategy within the Kyōsantō. One contends that the bourgeois democratic revolution
has already been completed in Japan through the process of Allied intervention end
that the time hes, therefore, come for e proletarian, socialist revolution directed
toward crushing the power of the bourgeoisie. The other contends that changes made
under the occupation have not fundamentally altered the feudal basis of Japanese
society and that, therefore, the strategy laid down in the 1932 theses1 must remain
the strategy for the party today. To both of these contentions, Nosaka has replied
that a party strategy based upon such arguments would isolate the Kyōsantō by meking
1ts main target the destruction of capitaliem in its entirety. This would result in
the unification of capitalist and feudal forces, would drive the rich and middle-
class farmers and the small and medium-class entrepreneurs and capitalists into the
enemy camp, and would leave the Communists with only the workers and the poor
peasants as their allies.
The line advanced by Nosaka, in what appear to be authoritative statements of
party policy, envisages rather a dual process in which the as yet incomplete
1. See above, pp. 32 ff.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
-95-
RESTRICTED
demccratic revolution will be carried to its logical end and followed by the
socialist revolution, which, because of current internal and external circumstances,
may be carried to success without resort to violence. The Communists, therefore,
need no longer anticipate, as they did before the end of the war, the necessity for
elmed uprisings on the 1917 Bolshevik pattern for the achievement of their aims
because of & change in objective circumstances both in Japan itself end in the
world. The major changes in Japan: according to Nosaka, have been a destruction
of the physical power of the ruling classes through the elimination of the armed
capitalists and of the Emperor system through the loss of Japan's overseas
possessions and the dismantling of its munitions industry; the suppression of
reactionary organizations; the legalization of the Kyōsantō; the guarantee of
liberties; and the increased powers of the Diet. Externally, the scene has been
completely changed by Worid War II. Germany, Italy, and Japan are no longer
aggressive, imperialist dictatorships; the French and British Empires have been
greatly weakened; people's democrecies have been established on the continent of
Eur'ope; the independence movement in the Far East has been erowing stronger; China
is becoming democratic; the Soviet Union's strength has been decisively demonstrated;
and, although the United States has become the stronghold of capitalism, the world.
wide strength of capitalism has been greatly decreased, while the power of the
working class has been strengthened. The duty of the Kyōsantō, therefore, is to take
advantage of these circumstances to promote completion of the democratic revolution
and inauguration of the socialist revolution while at the same time avoiding the
dangers of opportunism and social democracy. It must, therefore, seek to influence
and control the masses through perticipation in their economic struggles, through
education and propaganda, and through the Diet.1
1. Mainichi Shimbun, May 22, 24, and 25, 1946; Zene1, July 1947 and Apr11 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
- 96 -
RESTRICTED
Since the SCAP proposal for revision of the National Public Service Law in
July l948 and the cabinet ordinance prohibiting strikes and collective bargaining
1
in the public service that followed,1 the Commmists have laid particular stress
on the incomplete nature of Japan's democratic revolution and the possibility of
a resurgence of fasciam that will seek to destroy democratic gains already made.
Although regarding the new fascism as still weak and hempered in its growth by the
strengthening of democratic forces in Japan and the world, the Commmists state
that its rise has given them a new mission and responsibility "...to build the
front for the defense of democracy, which is now facing a crisis, and thereby
appeal to all democratic organizations and democratic progressive people with the
view to launching a struggle for the defense of freedom by every democratic method
available."2 Two new features characterize resurgent fasciem, according to
Commmist statements. First, it is a tool of foreign imperialism: "...the old
fasciem in Japan, Germany, and in Italy served the interests of monopolistic
capitalists but the new fasciem not only serves the interests of monopolistic
capitalists in their respective countries but also serves the interests of their
new masters. In a few words, it acts like a foreign agency. It is traitorous."
Secondly, the new fasciem operates under a cover of democracy: "...the old fasciem
destroyed by force all democratic organizations, including the Diet, democratic
political parties, trade unions and others. The new fascism has not yet employed
such open means because the democratic forces both at home and abroad are too
powerful. Therefore the new fasciem is attempting to dostroy democracy under
cover of democracy."3
Because of these new characteristics, the Commmists argue, the tactice
employed in the strugglo against prewar fasciem are no longer appropriate and new
See bolow, p. 260.
2.
Akahata, August 19, 1948.
3.
Akahata, August 25, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.98)
- 97-
RESTRICTED
tactics must be adopted. In the struggle against the new fasciem, nationaliem and
independence muat be stressed: "In the battle against the old militaristic fascism,
the popular front was advocated. But, in order to fight the new fasciem, we must
embrace much wider classes of people. It is possible for us to drew to our side
workers, farmers, smaller capitalists and a section of industrialists who will not
enjoy the benefit of imported foreign capital. We should organize a common front
with the enlistment of a wide range of people who form 95% of the entire population
of our country for the purpose of fighting treasonous fascism. The stabilization
and promotion of the standards of living of the people, vindication of democracy,
and unqualified independence of the nation are the goal of such a common front."
Secondly, the new fasciam may be fought more effectively than the old by democratic
means: "...as the new fascism apparently makes it a policy to observe the Potedam
Declaration and the Constitution, we should also make the protection of democracy
and vindication of the Constitution our slogan and spot the enemy's infringements
of the Constitution. At the same time, we must make loo% use of the Diet, trade
unions, and all other democratic organizations and democratic ways of fighting. In
the heyday of the old fascism there was no room for us to employ such democratic
,1
warfare.
In this struggle as in all others, however, democratic and peaceful change
does not mean for the Communists, as it does for the Socialists, a major emphasis on
the achievement of their aims through securing control of the parliamentary machinery.
On the contrary, as Nosaka has said:
"It would be naive to suppose that everything will be serene, if
victory in the election and a ma jority in the Diet is gained.
Struggle in the Diet will not be effective without the support
and pressure of the masses outeide the Diet. Again, the governing
class will obstruct the progress of the revolution by using
various influences and organizations outside of the Diet. The
way to destroy this opposition is not through force of numbers in
the Diet, but through the power of the organized masses on the
outside."2
1.
Akahata, August 26, 1948.
2.
Mainichi Shimbun, May 25, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
- 98 -
RESTRICTED
Parliamentarianism in itself, without giving equal weight to the establishment,
strengthening, and control of mass organizations operating outside the Diet and the
political parties, is, according to the Communist argument, inadequate for the
achievement of democracy and socialism. The weaknesses of parliamentarianiem as a
tactic lie in the facts that elections are conducted too infrequently to reflect
rapid changes in the political situation; the capitalists, when in power, make laws
that are intended to suppress the people and neither they nor the bureaucrats will
interpret any law for the benefit of the people; when political parties representing
the people are in opposition in the Diet they can achieve nothing except by
collaboration with mass organizations outside the Diet; and Socialists in the Diet
will readily cooperate with capitalists and bureaucrats unless they are constantly
Communist tactics with regard to mass organizations have had three basic
characteristics. First, they have sought to establish organizations or penetrate
those already in existence among all groups in Japan that might be expected to feel
dissatisfaction with the existing order. Workers, farmers, women, racial and
national minorities, intellectuals, and students have all been subjected to and
in varying extents influenced by the constant organizing activities of the
Communists. Secondly, they have encouraged such groups as they have been able to
influence or control to serve not only as channels through which popular pressure
can be exerted on the government but also as outlets for various types of direct
action campaigns -- strikes, organized refusal to pay taxes, organized resistance
to grain collections, and similar activities. Finally, they have sought to
combine both organizations under their influence or control and those they have
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, May 22, 24, and 25, 1946; Akahata, January 8, 1947; Zenei,
July 1947 and Apr11 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.98)
- 99 -
RESTRICTED
been unable to penetrate into popular fronts of various kinds through which
Communist influence may be further expanded. In all of these activities the
Communists strive to attain two ends simultaneously: the exploitation of the
immediate grievances of the particular group involved in such a way as to enhance
respect for the militant leadership of the Kyosanto and the integration of these
grievances with the long-term aima of the Kyōsantō in such a way as to convince
those who hold these grievances that their ultimate satisfaction lies not in the
achievement of a wage rise or a reduction of taxes but in the establishment of
socialism under Commmist leadership.
2.
Anpeals to Special Groups
a.
Youth.
Communist attempts to influence Jepanese youth have been
carried on largely through the instrumentality of the Seinen Kyōsan Dōmei (Young
Communist League), which in turn hae been particularly active among younger members
of the trade unions and among the student population. Like its parent organization,
the Seinen Kyōsan Dōmei has sought constantly and by a variety of means to establish
popular fronts composed of youth organizations.
Plans for the revival of the Seinen Kyōsan Damei were first formulated in
November 1945, when HATrORI Bakusei and six other members of the Kyōsento were
assigned to draw up a program and regulations.
Formal inauguration took place in
Februery l946, and since that time the organization and policies of the league have
closely followed those of the Kyosanto, with special emphasis on issues of particular
interest to young people. The Seinen Kyosan Dōmei publishes a weekly newspaper,
Seinen no Hata, and operates schools for the training of its members in Tokyo and
elsewhere.
In the early stages of its organization, according to Seinen Kyōsan Dōmei
statements, the league attracted its greatest following among students and therefore
1. Jiji Press release, November 19, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
- 100-
RESTRICTED
In many
unions young Communists gained complete control of the Youth Sections and of the
various action and assault corps, whose tendencies toward violence and intimidation
lod to their dissolution after the prohibition of the planned general strike of
February 1, 1947.
It was not until the end of November 1947, with the organization of a
preparatory committee for the Nippon Minshu Seinen Dōme1 (Japan Democratic Youth
League), that the young Communists achieved any particular success in their campaign
for a united youth front. Thenceforth Communist activities toward the achievement
of this aim appeared to be conducted along two parallel lines. On the one hand,
the preparatory committee for the new league continued to operate, announcing its
program in December 1947 as the establishment of Japan's independence through complete
democratization; the unification of democratic youth in Japan, Asia, and the world;
the etruggle against war; the creation of a new progressive culture; the stabilization
of the people's livelihood, the improvement of the living standards of working and
farming youth, and the opening of positions of economic and political responsibility
to young men and women; the expansion of opportunities for higher educatiun; and the
democratic supervision and operation of key industries by the workers. On the other
hand, the Communiste were active in the organization of the Nippon Seinen Kaig1 (Japan
Youth Council), membership in which appeared to be confined largely to the youth
the two organizations met with a generally favorable response, and by September 1948
b. Women. Communist attempts to organize women's groups have lagged far
1.
Seinen no Hata, September 19, 1948.
2.
Mimpo, December 8, 1947; Seinen, Docember 10, 1947: Seinen no Hate, December 15
and 25, 1947; J1mmin, January 26, 1948.
3.
Seinen no Hata, March 6 and April 3, 1948; Seinen Shimbun, August 25 end
Septomber 3, 1948; Akahata, August 29, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
-101-
RESTRICTED
behind their activities in other fields. At a Kyosanto Central Committee session
on May 31, 1948, NOSAKA Ryu, chief of the party's Women's Section, spoke at length
on this problem and plans were made for strengthening the Minshu Fujin Kyōgikai
(Democratic Women's Conference), the preparatory committee for which had been
1
established in mid-April.
c. Minority groups. The two minority groups in Japan of any importance
are the Koreans, who now number about 500,000, and the eta, or depressed caste, whose
numbers are uncertain but whose organization, the Zenkoku Buraku Kaiho Remmei (National
League for Emancipation of the Special Caste -- formerly Zenkoku Suiheisha), has
consistently claimed to represent three million people.
The Communiste have been particularly successful in their activities among the
Koreans, in part because they have been the only Japanese group that has sought the
support of Koreans in Japan and in turn supported their demands and in part because
of the influence of events in North Korea. Koreans, moreover, heve consistently
occupied prominent positions in the Nippon Kyōsantō. While periodically urging
Korean Communists in Japan to integrate themselves with the Japanese proletariat
for the achievement of joint aims and criticizing them for their particularist
tendencies, the Kyōsanto has been able to exploit the nationalist and racial
resentments of the Koreans in Japan to the point where it now exercises substantial
control of the Zai Nichi Chosenjin Remmei (The League of Koreans Residing in Japan),
2
Japan's leading Korean organization.
The eta organization is generally associated with the Nippon Shakaito, and its
founder and leader, MATSUMOTO Jiichiro, is also a prominent Shakaitō leader. Since
the beginning of the occupation, however, Matsumoto himself has moved increasingly far
1.
Seinen no Hata, May 1, 1948; Akahata, June 1, 2, 8, and 10, 1948.
2.
Zene1, March and May 1947; Akahata, Apr11 13, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
- 102 -
RESTRICTED
to the left, and the penetration of his organization by Communist ideas if not by
Communist leadership has been shown in its consistent support for a democratic front
that would include the Kyōsantō.
d. Professional groups. Communist efforts to gain support among professional
and intellectual groups have been facilitated by the natural organizational proclivities
of tre Japanese. Among the numerous professional and intellectual organizations under
Commnist control, the most conspicuous are the Jiyu Hōsō Dan (Free Bar Association).
a group of lawyers that seeks the furtherance of civil liberties and legal reforms
and has been active in furnishing defense attorneys for Communists, labor leaders,
and leftists; the Minshu Shugi Kagakusha Kyökai (Democratic Scientiets Association).
a group of phyeical and sociel scientists dedicated to the propagation of so-called
progressive principles in their respective fields; the Sovieto Kenkyusha Kyökai
(Soviet Study Asgociation), which together with a number of related organizations has
been active in publicizing Soviet achievements; and the Shin Nippon Bungakukai (New
Japan Literary Society). In October 1947 these organizations, together with a number
of others encompassing such varied activities as architecture, music, juvenile
literature, poetry, and the propagation of Esperanto and inclined to describe
themselves as new, democratic, or both, combined to form the Bunren (Nippon
Minshushug1 Bunka Remme1 -- Japan Democratic Culture League) for the creation and
thase groups, they have as a whole served the Coomunists well, providing no cnly a
number of channels for the propagation of Communiet doctrines in a form palatable
to different interest groups but aleo a variety of crganizations willing and
anxious to lend their names in support of Communist efforts to organize popular
fronts around local or national issues.
1.
Jimmin, October 26, 1947 and January 25, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
- 103-
RESTRICTED
3. Direct Action Campaigns. The Japanese Communists have been conspicuous for
their leadership and support of direct action campaigns through which groups and
individuals have sought remedies for their grievances by methods that have been
outside legal channels when not actually illegal. The first important use of this
tactic occurred in January 1946, when, as the culmination of a campaign to uncover
large hoarded foodstocks, a group of Japanese under Communist leadership seized
1
and distributed stocks of food "concealed" in the arsenal in Itabashi ward, Tokyo.
A similar exposure campaign was carried on with great vigor in the early months of
1948 and resulted in the imprisonment of a large number of the Communists and others
This campaign was followed in the spring and early summer of 1948 by
an anti-tax movement in which the Kyosanto not only organized protest meetings
against high taxes and promoted attempts to secure reduced assessments but also
encouraged tax collectors not to perform their functions and individuals not to
C.
Program and Policies
Political
a. The Emperor question. The Kyosanto's attitude toward the Emperor
question has assumed in Japan a position somewhat out of proportion to its actual
significance in the party's program. This fact is in part a reflection of the
emotional aura that surrounds any discussion of the Emperor in Japan and in part a
reflection of the prevalent conviction that the Emperor issue is the hub of whatever
conflict may exist between Tokuda and Nosaka.
In his pre-surrender statements, Nosaka separated the Emperor question into
three distinct issues, each of which could be approached separately: the Emperor as
1.
Tokyo Shimbun, January 25, 1946; Yomiuri Hochi, January 26, 1946; Asahi Shimbun,
January 26 and 29, 1946.
2.
Akahata, January 10, 1948; Seinen no Hata, January 11, 1948; Jij1 Press release,
February 7, 1948.
3.
Akahata, January 17, 27, March 19, 20 and April 7, 18, 23, 1948; Zene1, June 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
-104-
RESTRICTED
an individual; the Emperor as a religious symbol; and the Emperor as an instrument
of government. With regard to the first issue, Nosaka expressed himself strongly
to the effect that the reigning Emperor was a war criminal and should be treated
as such. He recognized, however, that the imperial family was ragarded with
religious veneration by the Japanese people and advocated, therefore, that the
question of the retention of the throne be decided by popular plebiscite. Should
the people decide to retain the throne, the powers of the Emperor should be
drastically reduced to make possible a democratic govertment in Japan even before
the achievement of the republic advocated by the Communists.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Potadem Declaration, Nosaka continued to
express himself along much the same lines. Thus, on August ll, in speaking of the
Potsdam Declaration, he declared:
"On behalf of the Japanese people we welcome and support this wise
step of the Allies. There is a section of people in the Allied countries
who advocate immediate abolition of the Japanese Emperor. I announced at
the Chinese Commmist Party Seventh Congress on behalf of the Japanese
Commumist Party that the Japanese Emperor cannot evade responsibility for
the war. But up until today the Japanese Emperor is an object of
reverence for the majority of Japanese people....There were Japanese
people in the past who believed that the Japanese Commnist Party advocated
immediate abolition of the Japanese Emperor. It can now be seen that this
is obviously a misunderstanding...."1
Two weeks later, in proposing a program for Japan on behalf of the Nippon Kyōsantō,
2
Nosaka made no mention whatever of the Emperor issue.
In Japan, however, the Commmists were beginning to make statements regarding
the Emperor that, if not thoroughly clear, were undeniably bellicose in tone. Even
before their release from prison on October 10, Tokuda, Shiga, and a number of other
Commnists had stated in a manifesto: "our objective is the establishment of a
peaceful government of the people besed upon the popular will of the people, through
the overthrow of the Imperial Institution."3 More explicitly, the first issue of the
1. Yenan in English Morse, August 14, 1945.
2. Ibid., August 25, 1945.
3. Manifesto of October 10, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.99)
-105-
RESTRICTED
Ccmmmist newspaper Akahatc declared:
"So long as the Japanese Emperor system remains there is danger
it will lead in the direction of the militarists' dream of world conquest
and to a world Emperor system.... The realization of democracy will
provide political education for the people.... Such political education
will be impossible unless the Emperor system is abolished and a people's
republic established. If we say that we must use the Emperor and his
government until political education is completed then we must wait for
a hundred years. Bourgeois ideology is mistaken on this point."1
Continuing statements in this vein could not fail to raise the question as to
whether Nosaka's return to Japan might not precepitate a controversy within the
Kyosanto on the Emperor issue. This the Communist leaders were quick to deny. Shiga
stated in an early issue of Akahata that much had happened to change the position
of the Emperor and the people's attitude toward him since Nosaka's August 1l statement
and that, once the Japanese Communists abroad returned to Japan, the "iron unity" of
That this was not entirely the case, however, was indicated in a statement by
TANAKA Tobei, who returned from China some time in advance of Nosaka's arrival.
Reiterating the Yenan position on the Emperor question, Tanaka charged that the
Japanese Communists were tending to destroy the possibility of a united front with
other democratic parties by their overly fastidious approach.
3
Shortly after Nosaka's return, he and other leaders of the Kyosanto issued a
joint statement that, at first glance, seemed to reflect the victory of Nosaka's
views. It stated in part:
"...we have come to complote agresment in recognizing the
righteousness of the polioy of abolishing the Emperor system. Its
abolition means its rejection as a state system. It is an entirely
different problem whether the Imperial family is to be loft to
continue or not. This question shonld be decided by the wish of
the Japanese people in the future when the demooratization of Japan
is attained."4
1.
Akahata, October 20, 1945.
2.
Akahata, November 7, 1945.
3.
Wippon Times, Jamuary 9, 1946.
4.
Sippon Times, January 16, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.97)
- 106 -
RESTRICTED
Within the framework of the existing situation in Japan, it would seem unlikely
that the Kyōsanto was going to these treat len ths merely in an attempt to convince
the Japanese people that, should the Cummunists come to power, they would not seek
physical annihilation of the imperial family. It seemed rather to be the intention
of the joint statement to indicate that the Communi-ts were reud to accept a
situetion similar to that obtaining in Greut Biitain  ti: such time ts the people
themselves should decide to reject monarchy entirely.
If this was indeed the intention or the j ini st. temen'.. it :led to establish
any consistent pattern for subseque:t pa"ty 3' emerts. £u.seuent statements have
continued to refer from time to time to diiferences oi ap roac. t. the imperial
system as against the imperial family and th celgning Euperor, consistently attacked
for his alleged complicity in wer crimes and the cost to the people of his trips
and his household. They have, however, been so insistent in their demands for the
abolition of the imperial system and the establlshment of a people's republic es to
obviate an interpretation of the Communist position es accepting the principle, at
least for the time being, of a severely limited monarchy. This was perticularly
true of uhe Commumist position on the question of constitutional reform.
b. Constitutional reform. In mid-November l945, the Nippon Kyōsentō stated
its basic principles with regard to constitutional reform as follows: sovereignty
rests with the people; the democratic Diet administers the sovereignty and elects
the personnel who constitute the government; the government is responeible to the
published drafts of their own before the issuance in March 1946 of the
govermment-sponsored draft, the Kyosanto published no draft proposals until July
1946. Meamvhile, however, it has been made clear in various statements that the
Commumists favored unicameralimm, abolition of the peorage and the Privy Council,
oloction of judges, utilization of recall procedures, and an extensive bill of rights.
1. Tokyo in Japanese, November 11, 1945.
RESTRICTKD

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
- 107 -
RESTRICTED
In its preemble, the Communist draft ascribed the war and the ills that
accompanied end followed it to the Emperor syetem and celled, therefore, for the
abclition of that system and the establishment of a republic. The final article of
the draft provided that the abolition of the republican form of government was never
to be the subject of an amendment to the constitution.
The first chapter of the Communist draft defined sovereignty as resting with
the people and called for the operation of the Japanese economy for the stabilization
and improvement of the people's livelihood; the ebolition of the feudalistic land-
hold ing system; the dissolution of the Zaibatsu; and the establishment of regulations
concernine finance and mejor industries. A provision renouncing aggressive war was
also contained in the first chapter.
Under the draft, legielative power was vested in a unicameral National Assembly,
members of which were to be elected for a four-year term by citizens over eighteen
without discrimination regarding residence, property, creed, sex, race, education, or
sociul conditions. Elections were to be direct and secret and based on proportional
ropresentation. Members of the National Assembly were to be required to report
periodically to their constituencies and were to be subject to recall under provisions
to be estahlished by law. The Assembly might be dissolved by a vote of two-thirds
of itą membersnip.
Powers of the National Aseembly, as set forth in the draft, included: the
establiahment of fundemental internal uri external policy; the enactment of
legislation by a majority vote; the supervision of the execution of the constitution;
the modification or amendment of the conatitution; the enforcement of the law;
deliberation on and approval of the budget; establishment of investigation and other
apecial committees; appointment of public procurators to the Supreme Public Procurator's
Office; nomination of Supreme court judges to be elected by the people; election of a
National Assembly Standing Secretaries Committee fron smong its members; selection
RESTRICTED

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
- 108 -
RESTRICTED
of the Prime Minister and approval of the cabinet members selected by the Prime
Ministor.
The National Aseembly Standing Socretaries: Comittee was to be a body of
twenty-four members elected by the National Assembly. The chairman, elected by
the Committee, was to represent the people's republic. Functions of the Committee,
as outlined in the draft, included: the convocatfon and dissolution of the National
Assembly; the proclamation of naticnal election; the promulgation of law; the
abrogation of such decisions or orders of the government or any local assembly as
were deemed incompatible with law; the granting of ammesty; the ratification of
treaties; the appointment and recall of ambassadors; the reception of foreign
diplomats; and the awarding of democratic honors. It was to continue in office
after the dissolution of a National Assembly or the erpiration of its term until
the new National Assembly had elected its own Committee.
The Cabinet was defined by the draft as the supreme executive power of the
republic responsible to the National Aesembly or to the Standing Secretaries'
Committee when the former was in recess. The Premier was to be designated by the
National Assembly and was to select the membere of his cabinet with the approval
of the Assembly. A non-confidence vote by the Assembly was to result in the
resignation of the cabinet en bloc. The cabinet's fumctions, as outlined in the
draft, were to include the adminiatration of government; the conduct of foreign
affaire; the issuance of ordinances in conformity with law; the anmulment of
orders in conflict with national law issued by any ministry or unit of local
government; and the preparation of the budget for submission to the Diet.
Considerable space was devoted in the Commmist draft to provisions concerning
civil liberties. The thirty-five-article chapter that dealt with fundamental rights
guaranteed freedom of speech, press, assembly, association, religion, and residence;
prohibited arbitrary procedures in arrest, imprisonment, and trial; and established
RESTRICTED

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
- 109 -
RESTRICTED
the principles of social, political, and economic equality for all Japanese regardless
of sex. In addition, it contained a mumber of interesting provisions reflecting more
directly the social philosophy of its authors. Thus, workers were guaranteed the
right to organize, demonstrate, strike, and engage in collective bargaining and
production control; democratic organizations were to be provided with printing
presses, paper, buildings, and other equipment and were to be guaranteed the right
to cooperate with international organizations of a popular character; undemocratic
regulations concerning the family system were to be abolished, and special provisions
were to be made to guarantee the livelihood of children and of widowe; the right to
work was to be guaranteed to all; child labor was to be prohibited; minimm wage
standarde were to be established by law, as was the forty-hour week and a paid
annual vacation of at least two weeks; special protection was to be given to women
workers, and all workers were to enjoy the protection of an extensive social
insurance system; primary and secondary education was to be free and compulsory,
and the government was to aid higher education and establish laboratories and other
cultural institutions for popular development. Although the worker was guaranteed
the enjoyment of the property gained by his labor and the inheritance of property
was to be permitted, the possession of productive machinery was to be subject to
the public weil-being and the right to hold property was to be restricted by lew
when deemed necessary for the public welfare.
The Commmist draft contained no explicit provisions for judicial review.
It did, however, declare:
"The fundamental rights of the people guaranteed by the constitution
shall be inviolable, and the enactment of no law and the issuance of no
command violating their rights shall be allowed. If the Govermment acts
or issues a command in violation of the constitutionally guaranteed
fundamental rights of the people, the people need not assume responsibility
for its observance."1
1. Akahata, July 15, 20, and 27 and August 5, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
- 110 -
RESTRICTED
Despite certain similarities between their own draft and that of the government,
the Communiste opposed the new constitution, objecting to both the procedure by
which it was drawn up and its contents. Before the publication of the government
draft, the Commmists criticized the government's methods of anti-democratic and
bureaucratic, insisting that the new constitution should be drawn up by the people
1
themselves and should not be granted by the Emperor.
The liberalism of the government draft, published on March 7, 1946, evidently
came as somewhat a surprise to the Commnists. Recovering fairly quickly, however,
they admitted that the draft was superficially progressive but ascribed this fact
to the government's attempt to satisfy at least a minimm of public opinion while
maintaining control of Japan in the hands of reactionaries. How, the Communists
demanded, could a democratic constitution be drafted by the Emperor, a war criminal
and a cabinet all of whose members were connected with the war? "It is clear,"
Specifically, the Commmists criticized the government draft for retaining the
Emperor system, which, in whatever form it may exist, "is bound to become the
citadel of reactionary influences"; for hypocritically renouncing war when the
retention of the Emperor system made war inevitable; for failing to state clearly
that sovereignty rests in the people; for failing to guarantee to workers the right
to rest; for maintaining bicameralism; for failing to provide for the election of
judges; and for omitting any provision for government compensation of those whose
civil liberties are violated.3 In view of these deficiences, the Communists argued,
and in view of the continued power of reactionary influences, the drafting of a new
constitution should be postponed until after the achievement of democratization and
should at that time be undertaken by the people themselves, who would then realize
1.
Tokyo 1n Japanese, October 18, 1945; Jiji Press release, December 17, 1945;
Asahi
Shimbun, January 14, 1946.
2.
Tokyo
Shimbun, Apri1 4, 1946.
3.
Asah1
Shimbun, March 8, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, April 3, 1946; Tokyo Shimbun,
April 4, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
RESTRICTED
the extent of their powers and be determined to protect them.
The Communists continued to advocate postponement of further consideration of
constitutional reform in their election campaign, in their statements at the time
of the formation of the Yoshida cabinet, and in the Diet, advancing the argument,
among others, that, by stressing the conetitutional issue, the government was seeking
to evade its responsibility for dealing witn the more urgent problems of daily living.
On August 24, 1946, when the lower house voted on the constitution, the six Communist
members opposed its passage, with Nosaka explaining their opposition to both content
2
and procedure in terms already long familiar.
Once again, when the draft as
revised by the House of Peers came before the lower house, the Communists made up
the bulk of the small minority opposing its passage.
Although critical of the constitution's inadequacies, the Commmists have been
quick to charge Japanese cabinets with violating its provisions, particularly those
relating to civil liberties. Recent discussions with regard to amendment of the
constitution, moreover, have led the Communists to express suspicions that revisions
contemplated will increase the power of the Emperor and the upper house and curtail
the rights of Japanese workers. They have, therefore, expressed their firm
opposition to a "reactionary" revision of the constitution and have called instead
for revision of Chapter I in order to deprive the Emperor of even his ceremonial
functions.3
c. The Diet. In October 1946, the Communists publiehed a draft Diet bill
that had as its principal objects the establishment of the absolute superiority of
the House of Representatives over the House of Councillors; of freedom of speech in
Diet discussions, both with regard to the content of discussions and the equal right
of all reprssentatives to participate; and, finally, of the representation of all
1.
Jiji Press release, March 7, 1946.
2.
Asahi Shimbun, August 25, 1946; Akahata, August 27, 1946.
3.
Akahata, March 17 and August 29, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
-112-
RESTRICTED
however, the Commmists found the Diet bill, drafted by an all-party committee of
the lower house, sufficiently favorable to the interests of small parties to warrant
their complete support.
With regard to the election of members of the Diet, the Communiets advocate
the adoption of a system of proportional representation. Although far from
satisfied with the system employed in the 1946 election, by which members of the
House of Representatives were elected by a plural vote from multi-membered districts,
the Commmists opposed the revisions of March 1947 that provided for medium-sized
electoral districts and a single ballot. Apparently, however, the Communists
regard the national constituency systen employed in the election of a large
proportion of the members of the House of Councillors as favorable to the interests
3
of union candidates, left-wing intellectuals, and minority party candidates.' The
Commmists have given unqualified support to proposals that all expenses in connection
4
with election campaigns be borne by the state.
d. Local government. The party's draft constitution called for the erection
of a system of local government based on popularly elected assemblies at the
municipal and prefectural levels. These assemblies were to establish the local
administrative organs and supervise their activities. In addition, responsible local
police positions were to be filled by popular elections.5 A few days after
publication of the party's constitutional draft, the Kycsanto put forward further
proposals with regard to prefectural government. Among the reforms proposed were
the allocation to the prefectural assembly of supreme power within the district under
1ts jurisdiction, the election of the prefectural governor and other officials by
1.
Akahata, October 28 and 31, 1946.
2.
Jiji Press release, December 4, 1946.
3.
Jij1 Press release, November 24, 1946.
4.
Akahata, January 17, 1948.
5.
Akahata, August 5, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
- 113-
RESTRICTED
the assembly, the granting to the people of the right to recall prefectural
assemblymon, the popular election of prefectural police chiefs, and the granting
1
to prefectural officials and employees of the right to organize and strike.
Although adopting their usual policy of opposition to government-sponsored
legislation, the Communists have encouraged utilization to the fullest degree
possible of the provisions in the Iocal Autonomy Law of April 1947 that establish
a wide range of opportunities for the use of referendum and recall procedures.2
2. Economic
a. Industry. The Communist program calls for worker control of all important
industries, railroads, and mines and the abolition of control over industry by
monopoly capitaliste, the military, and the bureaucrats.3 In August 1947 the
Kyosanto sponsored a Bill for Nationalization and People's Control of Key Industries
to be applied to all mining industries; the generation, transmission, and distribution
of electric power; the manufacture of iron, steel, cement, fertilizer, fibers, and
paper; broadcasting; public works; shipping; and the private railroads. These
industries were to come under the direction and control of a Supreme Economic
Council composed of representatives of unions, farmers' organizations, small business,
and political parties. Each nationalized industry was to be supervised by a committee
drawn from the industry's union and by a management bureau representing a new
4
Ministry of Industry.
The Kyōsantō has been emphatic in its denial that its interpretation of
socialism would lead to the complete abolition of private property. It insists that
it seeks only to end monopolization of property for the benefit of the few and argues
that, until this goal is reached, the monopolists will sabotage production for their
1.
Jiji Press release, August 8, 1946.
2.
Akahata, February 5 and 6, 1948.
3.
Akahata, March 26 and Apr11 2, 1946.
4.
J1j1 Press release, August 7, 1947; Akahata, August 10, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
-114-
RESTRICTED
own profit and hence prevent industrial recovery.1 Like the Socialists the
Commmists have sought to appeal to amall businessmen by demanding their
mancipation from monopoly domination and bureaucratic interference, state support
2
for the recovery of small industry, and labor cooperation with emall business.
They have repeatedly accused the government of seeking to destroy small business
and strengthen Zaibatsu enterprise through its fiscal, price, and allocation
2
policies.
b. Finance. In general, the Communist financial policy calls for the
amalgamation of all banks into a single national bank under public management;
abolition of subsidies to capitalists and landowners; reduction of the expenditures
of the Imperial Household; high taxation of the wealthy; confiscation of war profits;
reduction of taxes on workers, tenant farmers, and the lower classes in general; and
3
the abolition of taxes tnat place an unfair burden on low income groups.
Inflation, according to Commmist doctrine, is not brought about because of the
exietence of discrepancies between the supply of commodities available and the amount
of currency in circulation nor is it the result of an excees of consumption over
production. It is rather the result of exploitation of one class by another and of
policies resorted to by monopoly capitalists in their attempts to survive the
4
capitalist crisis.
The Commmists, therefore, have attributed inflation in Japan to government
policy and to the support which that policy has given to capitalist profiteering
through sabotage of production and falsification of assets. They have proposed, as
an immediate remedy, the adoption by a publicly managed single national bank of a
policy of denying funds to black-marketeers and speculators, concentrating funds on
1. Jij1 Press release, February 11, 1946; Yomiur1 Hoch1, February 12, 1946;
Akahata, April 2, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, April 7, 1946.
2. Akahata, February 23, March 26, and October 25, 1946, July 28, 1947, June 9
and Ju1y 11, 1948.
3. Akahata, March 26, 1946; Yomiur1 Hoch1, April 3, 1946.
4. Akahata, September 7, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
-115-
RESTRICTED
the rehabilitation of industry, and advancing loans at low rates of interest to
small and medium-sized industries. In the field of tax reform the Communists
have proposed high income and property taxes on the new-yen rich, steeply graduated
income taxes, high taxes on lurury goods, and reduction of all taxes that bear
heavily on the masses.
c. Labor. The Commmist program in the field of labor relatione calle for
the guarantee of the rights to organize, strike, demonstrate, engage in collective
bargaining, carry on union activities during working hours, and participate in
international labor organizations. With regard to wages and hours, the Kyōsantó
calls for an 8-hour day and a 48-hour week for all workers ercept those who are
employed underground, for whom the party advocates a maximum 6-hour day and 36-hour
week. All workers, regardless of efficiency, would receive a minimum wage, to be
established at least once a year by a Wage Committee, half of the members of which
are to represent the trade unions, with the others representing business organizations,
farmers' organizations, and the public. Smaller enterprises are to be aided by the
government if necessary to enable them to pey the minimum wage. In the field of
social legislation, the Communists demand unemployment and accident insurance
systeme financed by the employers, public works program for the relief of the
unemployed, and exemption of the unemployed from charges for rent, electricity,
water, and transportation. With respect to working conditions the Kyosantō has
proposed abolition of apprenticeship and of the dormitory system, abolition of
night work and overtime for women and for workers under eighteen, establishment
of clinos and provisions of sanitary and rest facilities and periodic medical
examinations for workers, establishment and enforcement of safety standards, and
fifteen weeks' maternity leave.
2
1.
Akahata, August 10, 1947.
2.
Akahata, March 26, 1946, February 27, 28, 29, 1948, May 22, 1948; Rodo Hyoron,
July 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, Apr11 11, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
- 116 -
RESTRICTED
d. Agriculture. Sccltered statemonts by the Communiote in i46 indicited
their lope for ultimate colleclivization of the land, but this issue was generally
subordinated to the devxuis for redistribution of the land at the expense of large
or absentee landowners and the reduction of farm rents. In May 1947, IT0 Ritsu,
who had been charged with developing the party's agrarian program, declared:
"If the democratic revolution which is now under way develops into
the crucial stage with the aol:shment of a popular government, there
is the possibility that lani will be transferred from private to
collective mership by the people. The Kyōsantō will see to it that
the nation ization of farm land is carried out peacefully through
persuesior: and by the farmers themselves. At the same time, we
Communists fully support. the demands of both large and small farmers
to become small scale producers free of the feudalistic yoke.... The
Kyosantio will fulf:ll its duty to liberate farmers from capitalistic
exploitation through agricultural mechanization and the development of
cooper.tive farming."1
Initially, the Kyōsantō demanded outright expropriation of all land farmed by.
2
tenants.
At the party's Fifth Congress in February 1946, however, the program was
modified to call for the confiscation of large landholdings (as well as land owned
by war criminals) and state purchese of smaller holdings. Determination of the
size of the holdine to be purchased rather tinan confiscated was to be in the hands
of farmers' committees set up in each locality.3 Land up to two chōbu would be
addition, the Communists called for the transfer of unexploited woodlands to state
control so that they might be occupied by impoverished peasants, demobilized
In December 1947, in still another agricultural policy statement, the Kyōsantō
called for the establishment of & Land Control Committee to place all farmland,
1.
Akahata, May 29, 1047.
2.
Tokyo 1n Japanese, November 19 and December 4, 1945; Asahi Shimbun, December 22,
1945.
3.
Jiji Press release, February 25, 1o46; Asahi Shimbun. March: 1, 1946.
4.
Jij1 Press release, July 11, 1346. (1 chobu = 2.45 acres).
5.
Tokyo Shimbun, July 1?, 946.
FEETRICTED

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
-117-
RESTRICTED
fields, and forests under the control of working farmers, to correct unfair
distribution of farmland, and to manage all land for the development of agrioulture
and the improvement of the life of the farmer; the abolition of excessive taxation
and other undue obligations hampering agricultural production; the repeal of all
laws providing for compulsory delivery of agricultural products; the establishment
of popularly elocted courts to deal with questions of rents, debts, and employment
contracts; and modernization of agriculture through state aid, mechanization, and
Post-surrender land reform legislation has been bitterly criticized by the
Communists. Their principal objeotions have been to the faot that landowmers are
permitted to retain up to one chobu of tenant land; to the provisions for
compensation, cost, and farm rent, all of which they regard as too high; to the
composition of the Farm Land Committees, which they regard as being too heavily
weighted in favor of the landlords; to the provisions that allow farmers actually
cultivating their land to hold more than three chobu under certain vaguely defined
circumstances; and to what they have charged has been the conspiracy between the
government and the large landlords to subvert the prinoiples upon which the
reform logislation was adopted.2
3. Foreign
a. General polioy. On April 4, 1946, the Kyōsanto made a rolatively full
statemant of its foreign policy in order, it was asserted, to refute the
accusations of those who regarded the Commmunists as being under Soviet domination.
The Commmists declared that their major purpose was to attain full independence for
Japan and they would oppose any government or party that sought to undermine such
independence. The actual attainment of such independence, however, required
fulfillment of the Potsdem Declaration. The Kyosanto, therefore, was determined to
1.
Akahata, Decembor 25, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Pross roloase, April 15 and August 12, 1946; Akahata, Docember 24, 1946,
December 5, 1947 and February 27, 1948; Jiron, May 1947; Zene1, July 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
- 118 -
RESTRICTED
seek and maintain independence by wiping out the influence of war criminals,
militariste, imperialists, and reactionaries; by achieving the abolition of the
feudal political system and the Emperor system; and by establishing a democratic
people's government.
The Nippon Kyosanto, moreover, declared that it favored the complete
independence of India, of other neighboring states, and of the southern Asiatic
colonial areas. The mutual cooperation of these countries as democratic, free, and
independent nations would guarantee permanent peace in the Pacific and East Asia.
In its foreign policy, the Communists argued, Japan should not rely too heavily
on any single nation and should not seek to utilize or intensify conflicts among
natione for its own profit. The Japanese people should not be misled by rumors of
serious hostility between the United States and the Soviet Union and should realize
that these rumors regarding two peacsful powers were being spread by Japanese
militarists and reactionaries in an attempt to regain their old power. The
Japanese trade-union movement should seek to affiliate iteelf with the International
Federation of Trade Unions, while Japan iteelf should seek to eliminate all
reactionary influences and hasten the achievement of demccracy in orde: to become
1
eligible for participation in the United Nations.
b. Nationalien and attitudes toward foreign powers. Although the Communists
have been extremely circumspect in official statements with regard to foreien powers,
their policy with regard to importation of foreign capil has given them the
opportunity to attack the United States indirectly. Closely linked to their
antagonism toward foreian capital invee tment in Japan har been their apreul to
Japanese nationalism. Althouch both policien have been incrasingly emphasized in
the past year, neither is essentially a recent developm nt.
1. J1j1 Press release, April 4, 1946; aahi Shimoun, Apr11 , 1046.
RESTRTOTFD

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
-119-
RESTRICTED
Nosaka while still in Yenan employed as a propaganda theme the threat that Japan
might become a colonial area. In l944, appealing to the Japanese people to yield to
the Allies, Nosaka argued that defeat would not necessarily result in Japan's reduction
to colonial statue. If a capitalist government emerged after the war, however,
Nosaka warned, Japen might be sold out to foreign states and it was only by the
establishment of a people's government that this danger could be avoided.1 From
the Communist point of view, since a people's government (that is, one in which
Communists or their instruments perticipate and exercise substantial influence) has
not yet been achieved in Japan, the danger against which Nosaka warned is a clear
and pressing one. From the outset of the occupation, therefore, the Communists
have opposed the importation of foreign capital, although masking their opposition
under the demand for the establishment of a people's government, which would then
seek foreign aid. Thus, in August 1946, the Kyosento greeted with considerable
hostility proposals for the importation of foreign capital for the purpose of
building railroads. Admitting that it might be neceseary to import some foreign
capital, the Communists insisted that all domestic capital be utilized fully first,
that any foreien investments be brought completely under Japanese control, and that
foreign investors enjoy no special privileges.2 With the deterioration of Soviet-
American relations end the development of American plans for expanded aid to Japan,
Communist opposition has, of course, been intensified; in the Communist cosmos
Japan has moved from the ranks of the imperialist powers to a semi-colonial status,
and the emphasis on the need for national resistance to an alliance between Japan's
own "finance-capitalist compradores" and foreien imperialists has been correspondingly
increased.3
1.
See above, p. 56 .
2.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, August 6, 1946; Jiji Press releane, Septembe 1 6.
3.
Akahata, May 5 and October 18, 1948; Minshu no Tomo, August-Septemo. 194.
RESTRICTFD

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
-120 -
RESTRICTED
The appeal to nationaliam, like opposition to the importation of foreign capital,
has been implicit in the demands of the Commumiste for independence and in their
é
emphasis on their own patriotim from the time of the surrender. In February 1948,
however, with the Kyosanto decision to embark upon a campaign for a democratic
racial front, the appeal to nationalism was given new emphasis and, to some extent,
a new flavor. The Commumists have, of course, been careful to distinguish their
brand of nationalism from the racialiem that characterized Japan's pre-surrender
policy of aggression. The latter, for which the Communists use the Japanese term
jinshu as against their own appropriation of the term minzoku, is regarded as a
capitalist and fascist concept that is typically anti-foreign, aggressive, and
imperialistic whereas the nationalist concept as advocated by the Communists is
based on the desire to defend independence, democracy, and peace. The Kyōsantō has
been equally careful to link its own concepts of nationalism with the development
of proletarian internationalism, especially since the Cominform denunciation of
Tito obediently echoed by the Japanese party. All the new democracies, the
Japanese Communists argue, were established through struggles for the defense of
the mother countries and the independence of ethnic groups. Internationaliam, which
is the basis of Marxiem, "does not negate ethnic nationalism and, at the present
stage of world history, internationaliem will be established on the bagis of the
independence of various ethnic groups. This is all too obvious from the fact that
Communist Parties in various countries are offering greater support to oppressed
ethnic groups throughout the world than any other political party and from the
fact that the right of self-determination of minority ethnic groups 1s established
far more thoroughly in the Soviet Union than in any other country.... To deny
independence to ethnic nationalities is imperialiam and not internationalism."
During the stage of bourgeois democratic revolution, therefore, ethnic nationalism
RESTRICTED

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
-121-
RESTRICTED
plays a progressive role. Unless ethnic nationalism is to be perverted into
imperialism, however, it must be led by proleturian internationalism and ultimately
1
absorbed by it.
c. Peace treaty proposals. When in May 1947, the Nippon Kyōsanto announced
its peace treaty policy, it emphasized the necessity for the completion of Japan's
A more elaborate peace
treaty program was published by the party in August 1948 after a two-week period
during which the Kyosantō, in commemoration of the anniversary of the Potsdam
Declaration, repeatedly attacked the government and the major political parties for
their sabotage of Japan's democratization.3
The new proposal, although similar to
the 1947 program in many respects, was conspicuous in contrast for its great stress
on the importance of the earliest possible conclusion of a peace treaty.
Communist proposals for a peace treaty were embodied in nine points:
1. Extermination of militaristic and fascist influences through
dissemination of democracy and stabilization and elevation
of the people's livelihood;
2.
Restoration of Japan's complete independence and freedom from
obligations that violate Japan's sovereignty;
3.
Restoration of islands that are a natural part of Japan
historically and racially;
4.
Complete withdrawal of armed forces from Japanese territories
and prohibition of the establishment of foreign military bases
in Japan;
5.
Recognition of Japan's right of self-defense and its right to
remain free of any commitments that might involve it in
international disputes;4
1.
Akahata, July 31, August 4, 19, and 21, 1948; Atarash1i Seka1, August 1948;
Seinen no Hata, August 15, 1948.
2.
Akahata, May 29, 1947.
3.
Soinen no Hata, August 15, 1948; Akahata, August 15, 17, and 20, 1946.
4.
It should be noted in this connection that the Communists have consistently
opposed the constitutional renunciation of all recourse to armed force not
only on the grounds that it was an essentially hypocritical gesture but also
because they consider it necessary to draw a distinction between aggressive
and defensive war.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
-122-
RESTRICTED
6. Recognition of the autonomy of Japan's economy and establishment
of equal economic relations with all countries;
7.
Limitation of reparations to a level that will prevent
remiliterization without hindering reconstruction or obstructing
the development of peacetime industry;
8.
Participation in the United Nations, the World Federation of
Trade Unions, and other international organs;
9.
Conclusion of a peace conference with all the Allied nations at
the earliest possible date, with Japan represented by a democratic
people's government or by delegates chosen by democratic
organizations throughout the country.1
4.
Social
a. Education. The Kyōsantō calls for the assumption by the state of all
expenses for education from primary school to univereity; allocation of 35 percent
of the national budget for education and cultural programa; a minimm wage and
a seven-hour day for teachers; limitation of the number of students in any one
class to thirty; ten years of compulsory education; full state provision for school
supplies and students lunches; public election of school principals; and abolition
b. Women and the family. The Communists demand complete equality for
women in all fields, special protection for women in industry, revision of laws
that place women in an inferior position in the family, adequate vacatione with
full pay for expectant mothers, and the establishment of public nurseries and
kindergartens.3
1.
Akahata, September 1, 1948.
2.
Akahata, September 1, 1948; Shakai to Gakko, October 1948.
3.
Akahata, March 26, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
-123-
RESTRICTED
III. REVIVAL OF THE TRADE-UNION MOVEMENT1
A.
Introduction
In the period since the surrender, the Japanese trade-union movement has grown
rapidly, far outstripping in membership and importance the pre-l940 movement, which,
Ministry survey, of Japan's approximately 9,000,000 wage earners 6,533,954 workers
were organized in registered trade unions. Somewhat less than half of these
organized workers were members of unions affiliated with one of the three trade-
union federatione.3
As in the prewar period, the trade unions, particularly the federations, have
shown strong interest in political activity. A conspicuous manifestation of this
interest has been the tendency to utilize the strike as a weapon against the
government as well as a technique of labor dispute. More important in the long run,
perhaps, as an expression of labor's political interest are the ties that have been
forged between the unions and the Shakaitō and the Kyōsantō.
Both the Socialists and the Communists have, of course, been active in seeking
trade-union support for their respective parties. In the rivalry between the
Shakaito and the Kyōsantō for influence in the trade-union movement the Shakaitō
gained an initial advantage from the fact that it numbers among its members most
of the experienced trade-union leaders who dominated the important unions of
prewar Japan. The Kyōsantō, on the other hand, benefited by the fact that in
prewar Japan the great mase of labor was unorganized, enabling the Communists to
capitalize upon inexperience in trade-mion procedures as well as upon rank-and-file
1.
This section covers only those aspects of the trede-union movement that are
directly related to the political problems discussed here. No attempt will be
made in this paper to describe or evaluate the economic aspects of the trade-
union movement.
2.
In 1936. Final Report of the Advisory Committee on Iabor, July 1946, p. 22.
3.
Kyodo release, September 9, 1948.
RESTR ICTED

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
- 124 -
RESTRICTED
discontent with the policies of old-line trade-union bureaucrats and the appeal in
times of economic crisis of radical doctrine and militant activity. It is
significant in this context that two of Japan's most militant labor leaders,
KUKUNAMI Kataumi and DOBASHI Kazuyoshi, both of whom ultimately made public their
membership in the Kyosanto after long periods of fellow-traveling, had no connection
with the trade-union movement before the surrender.
B. The Trade-Union Federations
1. The Rōdō Kumiai Sodome1 (National Federation of Labor). Officially
inaugurated in August 1946, the Podo Kumia1 Sodome1 in June 1948 claimed & total
memberahip of 1,291,000.1 Its largest affiliates are the unions of the textile
workers, the metal industry workers, and the construction workers.2 In the early
months of the occupation many of the Japanese Socialists who were active in the
establishment of the Shakaito were simultaneously engaged in activities looking
toward the establishment of a national trade-union federation. Particularly
prominent among these leaders were MATSUOKA Komakichi and KATO Kanju, who
represented the Right and the Left respectively in the prewar movement.
In October 1945, 120 trede-union leaders previously affiliated with the Right,
Center, and Left of the labor movement met in Tokyo to map out plane for the new
federation on the basis of three general objectives: the attainment of a trade-union
law and a collective bargaining law; the realization of industrial democracy; and the
organization of a sound and powerful national labor unfon. At this meeting a
preparatory committee was set up that directed the activities of the Sōdomei until
1ts formal inauguration in August 1946.3
1. Kyodo release, September 9, 1948.
2.
GHQ, SCAP, Labor Division, Statistical Survey of Labor Unions and Federations
in Japan, December 31, 1947.
3.
Dome1 Dispatch, October 11, 1945; Tokyo in Japanese, October 11, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.98)
-125-
RESTRICTED
In Jenuary l946, at a meeting chaired by Matsuoka, the Sodomei's guiding
principles were further elaborated upon. The political orientation of the group
was clarified in a resolution that called for opposition to bourgeois parties and
Meanwhile, under Communist influence, a federation of unions known as the
Kantō Chihō Rōdō Kumiai Kyōgikai (Kanto District Labor Union Council) was
estublished in the Kento area. Under the leadership of ITo Kenichi, member of
the Central Committee of the Nippon Kyōsantō, the Kantō Kyōgikal, in addition to
its organizational ectivities, sought to promote the idea of a national trade-union
federation that would be organized on united front principles and include both
Thus, by August 1946, a conflict between Socialist- and Commnist-influenced
imions was already apparent. In the strictly political field, the Shakaito had
already rejected cooperation with the Kyōsantō3 and there seemed little likelihood
that left-wing Socialists in the Sodomei would be able either to dominate that
organization or to lead it, to accept united front principles.
The three-day inaugural session of the Sodomei, held at the beginning of
August, clearly demonstrated the atrength of the right wing. At these meetings
Matsuoka defeated Kato for the presidency of the federation by a vote of 594 to
127, and HARA Toraichi, whose candidacy for the office of secretary general was
supported by Matauoka, defeated Kato's candidate, TAkANo Minoru, by a vote of
642 to 43. The three vice-presidents elected at this time were ITO U ro, KANEMASA
Yonekichi, and SHIGEMORI Hisahara, who were generally regarded as righiiat in their
sympathies.
4
Rightist control was further demonstrated in decisions on political
1.
Nippon Sangyo Keiza1, January 19, 1946.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, January 28, 1946; Yomiuri Hochi, February 7, 1946; J1ji Press
release, March 8, 1946.
3.
In July 1946. Cf. pp.
4.
Jij1 Press release, August 3, 1946; Mimpo, August 6, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-126-
RESTR.ICTED
policy adopted at the meetings. A proposal by SHIMAGAMI Zengoro that the Sōdāmei
declare its political neutrality in the interests of promoting the united front was
voted down by a large majority, as was a proposal that the Sōdōmei spongor a united
front to include the Kyōsantō.
Instead, the original decision to support the
Shakaito was continued and a resolution demanding the rejection of Communist
leadership in the union movement was adopted.2
Shortly after the close of the sessions Matsuoka made a statement that
emphasized both the political interests of the Sodomei and its hostility to the
Communists. Trade unions in Japan, he declared, unlike those in the United States
cannot maintain political neutrality. They must choose between capitalism and
socialism and between social democratic revolution and Communist revolution. The
Sōdāmei, he indicated, would support the Shakaitō but, unlike the Conmunist-
influenced unions, which were clearly subordinate to the Kyosantō, would not become
subordinate to the Shakaitō.3
2. The Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Pōdō Kumiai Kaigi (National Congress of Industrial
Unions). Inaugurated in mid-August 1946, the Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi
claimed 1,211,423 members in June 1948.4
Its largest affiliates are the unions of
the comunications workers, the electrical workers, and the chemical industry
The organization of the Sanbetsu was the direct outcome of Sōdomei refusal to
support the united front principle. Hed the Kantō Kyogikai succeeded in inducing
the Sodomei to accept a united front and to soften its hostility to Communists, it
is to be doubted that a rival federation would have been organized, especially since
1.
Asahi Shimbun, August 3 and 5, 1946; Mimpo, August 6, 1946.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, August 3, 1946.
3.
Jiji Shimpo, August 14, 1946.
4.
Kyodo release, September 9, 1948.
5.
GHQ, SCAP, Labor Division, Statistical Survey of Labor Unions and Federations in
Japan, December 31, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
-127-
PESTRICTED
1
the Sodōme1, like the Senbetsu, supports industrial unioniam.
Right-wing domination
of the Sōdamei, however, end its ennounced policy of hostility to Communism probably
made it evident to Communist lebor leadere and their sympathizers that their
onportunities for influencing labor vould be greater in en organization outside
Sodomei control, an organization that could capitalize on the enthusiasm for trade
unioniam sweeping Japan, could attract members in large numbers by its militancy,
and could then negotiate with the Sodomei on a more equal basis.
In February 1946 the Kantō Kyōgike1, joined by a number of other unions, set
2
up a preparatory committee for the organization of a federation of industrial unions.
In June the Sanbetsu preparatory committee called a conference that was chaired hy
KIKUNAMT Katsumi and attended by 500 union delegates. At this conference the importance
of a unified labor front was stressed and the Sodome1 was urged to purge itself of
the "labor bosses" who were obstructing unification.3
In August, two weeks after the inauguration of the Sodomei, the Sanbeteu held ite
inaugural meetings. Kikunami was elected president; DOBASHI Kazuyoshi and SAKAGUCHI
Yasuo, vice-presidents. Cnce again the Sanbetsu expressed its support of the united
front, and a resolution was passed inviting the Sōdōmei to particpate in a joint
front. At the same time, in a number of speeches, the allegation that the Sanbetau
was Communist-dominated was indignantly denied. It was argued in these speeches that
menbers were free to join parties of their own choosing, that blind hatred of
Communists merely because they were Communists was a violation of the Potsdam
Declaration, and that classification of the Sodomei as Socialist and the Sanbetsu as
Communist represented merely a reactionary attempt to split the labor front. The
Communists in the Sanbetau, however, were warned against any attempt to dominate the
1.
Analogies between the two Japanese federations and the AF of L and CIo in the
United States are misleading.
2.
Jiji Press release, February 21, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, March 1, 1946.
3.
Jij1 Press release, June 24, 1946; Mimpo, June 26, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.98)
- 128 -
RESTRICTED
1
organization or to utilize it for selfish party purposes.
3. The Zen Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi (Japan Trade Union Conference). The Zen
Nippon Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, the smallest of the three federations, claimed a memberslhip
of 300,000 when it was inaugurated in October 1946.2 Sponsored by the Minahu Jimmin
Remme! (Democratic People's Jeague),3 the Fōdn Kumiai Kaigi was established in order
to afford unions that were not affiliated with either the Sōdome1 or the Sanbetgu
a meane for electing representatives to the Central Labor Committee and, through
occupying a centrist position, to bring about a united front in which the Sodomei
The Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi has become increasingly
insignificant in the Japanese trade-union picture, and In June 1946 claimed only
C. The Nippon Nōmin Kumiai (Japan Farmers' Union)
1. Introduction. The Nippon Nomin Kumiai, which in February 1947 claimed to
represent approximalely one million Japanese farmers, began its postwar activities
in October 1945. As in the organization of the Shakaitō and the Sōdāmei, an effort
was obviously made to draw into the preparatory group prewer leaders ranging from
HIRANo Rikizo on the extreme right to KURODA Hisao on the extreme left. In contrast
to the situation in the Sōdōmei, however, the leftists in the Nōmin Kuniai exerted
considerable influence, and, in consoquence, the Communist-sponsored doctrine of
politicel neutrality was early adopted as a basic tenet of union orgenization.
Unlike the situation in the trade unions, therefore, the struggle for influence between
1.
Jiji Press releese, August 18, 19, 21, and 22, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, August 20
and 21, 1946; Tokyo Shimbun, August 20, 1946.
2.
FEC MI-091/1, Statistics on Japanese Labor, Apr11 9, 1947, RESTRICTED.
3.
See pp. 51 f.
4.
Jiji Press release, September 19 and 20, and October 23, 1946; Nippon Keiza1
Shimbun, October 26, 1946.
5.
Kyodo release, September 9, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
- 129 -
RESTRICTED
the Shakaitō and the Kyosanto has gone on within a single organization instead of
2. Internal Controversy. Between October 1945, when the preparatory committee
was established, and February 1946, when the Nippon Nomin Kumiai was formally
inaugurated, two important davelopments occurred: one, a controversy between the
Nomin Kumiai and the Shakaito over the latter's initial support of the government's
land reform bill; the other, a controversy within the Nōmin Kumiai over the united
front.
On December il, the Nomin Kuniai preparatory committee passed e resolution
demending the withdrawal from the Diet of the Land Reform Bill, their opposition to
the proposed legislation being based on the belief that the government's plan was
designed to maintain the influence of the landowners rather than to emancipate the
A union spokesman proposed as an alternative that effort be concentrated
on the reduction of rent and the substitution of money rent for rent in kind. Should
the farmers purchese the land on the basis advocated by the government, he argued, 1t
would amount in reality to their paying rent for years in advance.3 The union's
resolution on the bill was presented to the Shakaitō Diet membors, a number of whom,
of course, were also active in the umion. The Diet members, however, apparently
under the leadership of Hirano, failed to present the resolution to the government as
the Nōmin Kumiai edvanced its own proposals for reform, which, in their emphasis on
transfer to the farmers' unions of all authority over the redistribution of land and
other agricultural problems, otrongly resembled Communist proposale.5
1.
In February lo47, however, a aplit in the union occurred. The groups in the union
furthest to the right and led by HlRANo Rikizo withdrew and ultimately formed the
Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai (National Farmers' Union). See below, p. 185.
2.
Mainichi Shimbun, December 16, 1945; Jij1 Press release, December 19, and 24, 1945.
3.
Jiji Press release, December 20, 1946.
4.
Mainichi Shimbun, December 16, 1946; J1ji Press release, December 24, 1946.
5.
Jiji Press release, December 21, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
- 130 -
RESTRICTED
Controversy again became marked in January, when Kuroda, ITO Minoru, and
Two deye later, the union's Kanto District, composed of the chapters in Tokyo-to,
Kanagawa, Saitama, Chiba, Tochigi and Ibaragi, adopted a resolution in support of
the Kinki District.3
3. The February 1946 Inaugural Convention. With the approach of the inaugural
meeting of February 9, 1946, left-wing sources accused the conservative leaders
of the Nomin Kumiai of attempting to apportion representation in such a way as to
February 5, moreover, the Nippon Kyösantō, which had been organizing farmers'
committees in competition with the union, published a statement calling for a united
farmers' front and demanding that each farmers' organization adhering to the front
be permitted to support the political party of its choice and that no group be shut
out because of its political affiliations.5
Despite the acrimony aroused by the issue, however, the question of a united
front does not appear to have been discussed at the inaugural meeting, which,
instead, confined itself to electing officers and determining general policy. Unlike
the Sodomei, moreover, the Nomin Kumiai did not commit itself to the support of any
political party.
Although the election of SUNAGA Ko and HIRANO Rikizo to important offices
demonstrated that the right wing was very strong in the union, the selection of
such leftists as Kuroda and ONISHI Toshio for other influential positions indicated
that right-wing domination would not be as uncontested as it was in the Sodomei.
1.
Jiji Press release, January 22, 1946.
2.
Ibid., January 24, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, January 25, 1946.
3.
Yomiuri Hochi, February 5, 1946.
4.
Yomiuri Hochi, February 5, 1946.
5.
Asahi Shimbun, March 5, 1946.
6.
Mainichi Shimbun, February 10, 1946; Yomiuri Hochi, February 11, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
-131-
RESTRICTED
It was not surprising, therefore, that the united front issue continued to be
raised and to create controveray within the union.
1
In June the discussions at a two-day conference of the Central Executive
Committee indicated both that the Communists had made considerable headway in
penetrating local branches of the Nomin Kumiai and that the majority of the
union's leaders looked with disfavor upon these activities. A resolution adopted
at the conference accused the Kyosanto of disrupting farmers' unity by imposing
Commumist policy on the farmers propagating Communist doctrine in the union's
name seeking to gain control of the union's branch offices and making personal
attacks on union members who objected to the extension of Communist influence.
Although members of the union were free to support any political party, the
resolution stated, union members who were also members of the Kyosanto were
expected to refrain from violating union rules.
2
The Kyōsantō, however, chose to interpret this statement in a light as
favorable to its interests as possible and thus hailed it as establishing
the independence of the Nomin Kumiai from any political party and as indicating
the union's support in principle for a united front.3
1.
Yomiuri Hochi, March 25, 1946.
2.
Jiji Press release, June 8, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, June 9, 1946;
Yomiuri Shimbun, June 11, 1946.
3.
Japanese Home Service, June 10, 1o46; Yomiur1 Shimbun, June 11, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.98)
- 132 -
RESTRICTED
PART THREE: MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN LEFT-WING POLITICS, 1945-46
I. THE POPULAR FRONT MOVEMENT BEFORE THE ELECTIONS OF APRIL 10, 1946
A.
Commmmist Attempts to Create a Popular Front
1. Introduotion. The Comuniste in Japan have to a considerable extent eseumed
the initiative in the movement for a popular front. Although in the period before
the elections of 1946 their proposals had fairly wide press support as well as the
sympathy of many left-wing Socialiste, the results of their offorts since that time
have been negligible. In these efforts to establish a popular front, the Commmmists
have employed a variety of methods, sometimes singly and at other times in
combination. Among these methods have been: attempts to secure Socialist
agreement to a united front between the two parties as a basis for the subsequent
organization of a popular front including all "democratic" elements;1 attempts to
secure a united front between Commmist-and Socialist-influenced workers' and
peasants' organizations; attempts to secure a popular front for action on such
specifio issues as the food crisis; and attempts to organize individual demonstrations
on a popular front basis. Tactics employed by the Commumists have ranged from
attempts to secure the Socialist leaderahip's official approval of the popular front
principle to offorts to influence the Socialist left wing and the rank and file in
favor of a popular front as a means of putting pressure on the party leadership.
2. The Jimmin Kaiho Remme1 (Peoplo's Emancipation League). In October 1945,
when both parties were still in the organizational state, the Japanese Commmists
approached the Socialiste with a popular front proposal that was rejected by the
latter on the grounds that no such suggestion could be antertained until the two
1. The terms popular front and united front are frequently used interchangeably. In
international Commmist terminology, however, they have distinct meenings. An
agreement between proletarian parties on certain basic issues and lines of action
constitutes a united frant; an extension of this agreement to bourgeois parties n
and other non-working-class organizations constitutes a popular front. Seo
Goorgi Dimitroff, Working Class Unity, and other roports of the Seventh World
Congress of the Comintern.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
- 133 -
RESTRICTED
parties were more firmly established.1
The Communists, therefore, turned their attention to the organization of the
Jimmin Kaiho Remmei (People's Emancipation League), which was to seek "to form a
common front with all democratic influences in order to overthrow the Tonno (Emperor)
system and establish a republican government by the people." Proposals set forth
in the twelve-point platform of the league included strict enforcement of the
Potsdam Declaration, dissolution of undemocratic organizations, severe punishment
of war criminals, abrogation of oppressive laws, popular drafting of a new
constitution, minimm wage regulations and a reduction in working hours, worker
control of important industries and banks, and seizure of large estates for
It was stated that en organization wishing to affiliate itself with the
Jimmin Kaiho Remei need not support all twelve proposals, but it was not clear
whether this proviso oxtended to the Emperor issue.3 It was later reported, however,
that the Communiste, in seeking to popularize the organization, had completely
abandoned the anti-Emperor plank.
4
Little further was heard of the Jimmin Kaihō Remmei after the initial
announcement, and it may be assumed that its purely Communist sponsorship, together
with its initial position on the Emperor question, rendered it incapable of
attracting to its ranks any membere other than the already converted.
3. The Renewal of Overtures to the Shakaitō. On December 4, 1945, the Shakaito
Central Erecutive Committee informed the party's prefectural headquarters that it had
decided againat cooperation with the Communists. Should the Kyosanto make any
proposals for united action on a local basis, the question was to be referred to a
joint meeting of the Central Executive Committee and the prefectural headquarters
concernod.5
1.
Molbourne in English, November 2 and 7, 1945.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, November 12, 1945; Nippon Timee, November 13, 1945.
3.
Nippon Times, November 13, 1945.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, November 16, 1945.
5.
Jiji Press reloase, December 5, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.98)
- 134-
RESTRICTED
Two days later reneved Comuniet offers were rejected by representatives of the
On December 26, once again, the Commmists proposed a united front to the Socialists,
this time with the emphasis on common action for the solution of the food orisis.2
The nert day this proposal was rejected by the Shakaito Central Exeoutive Comittee.
The Shakaito declared at this time that, since the food problem was so pressing as to
admit of no delay, the party had already embarked upon its own course of action and
felt that it would be more effeotive for it to contimue to do so. The Commmists,
3
it was suggested, would do well to follow the same procedure.
The Socialist rejection was received by the Communists with considerable
hostility. Early in January the Commumists launched an attack upon Socialist
leadership that, in its bitterness and its frequent resort to such epithets as
as social-fascist and reactionary, was reminiscent of pre-Seventh Congress attitudes.
The Socialist rank and file, on the other hand, was urged by the Commnists to turn
against ite leadership and to struggle within the party to achieve the overthrow of
the Emperor system, the establishment of a people's republican government, a united
front with the Commniste, and the formation of industrial unions throughout Japan.
Accusations against Socialist leadership was greeted by Katayama with the remark
that they served to confirm the Socialist belief that the real motive of the
Commmists in proposing a popular front was their desire to create dissension within
the Shakaitō.
To this the Commmists replied that dissension 1n the Shakaito was
being caused not by Commnist machinations but by robellion within the party branches
against the dictatorship of the Central Executive Committee. As evidence for their
1.
Jij1 Press release, December 7, 1945; Yomiuri Hochi, December 8, 1945.
2.
Jij1 Press release, December 26, 1945; Mainichi Shimbun, December 27, 1945.
3.
Jij1 Press release, December 27, 1945, Asahi Shimbun, December 28, 1945;
Mainichi Shimbun, December 28, 1945.
4.
Jij1 Press release, January 7, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, January 8, 1945;
Yomiur1 Hoch1, January 8, 1946.
5.
Tokyo in Japanese, January 7, 1946; Asah1 Shimbun, January 8, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.97)
- 135 -
RESRECTED
contention, the Communists cited two statements attacking the Central Executive
Committee decision of December 4 that were alleged to have been made by the Aomori
and Gifu chapters of the Shakaitō.
1
As relations between the two proletarian parties worsened, there were
indications of a developing rapprochement between the Shakaito and the Jiyuto
(Liberal Party). Several statements made by the Liberal leader HATCYAMA Iichiro
at this time hinted that a firm agreement had existed between the two even before the
Agreement had gone so far, according to one roport,
that there had already been provisional allocation of certain cabinet seats in
anticipation of a coalition government.3 Persistent rumors of this type produced
an official Socialist denial of negotiations with the Liberals as well as an accusation
4
by the Socialists that the Iiberals were seeking to absorb their party.
Socialist rejection of Commmmiet proposals, Communist attacks on Socialist
leaders, and reported Socialist-Liberal flirtations seemed to be creating insuperable
obstacles in the path of the development of a popular front. Its proponents neverthe-
less found reason for encouragement in the imminent return of NosAkA Sanzo from Yenan.
Among political commentators, it was generally assumed that Nosaka's return would
lead to a modification of Communist policy, particularly on the Emperor issue,
and that this modification, together with Nosaka's personal prestige, would do much
to bring about greater accord between Socialists and Commmists.
4. The Return of Nosaka. The stage was set for a resumption of popular front
discussions coincident with Nosaka's return by the widely publicized proposals of
an unaffiliated leftist, YAMAkAWA Hitoshi. Appealing to all pro-democratic parties,
trade unions, and other organizations, Yamakewa called for the establishment of a
broad popular front that would limit its objectives to a small number of basic
1.
J1.4 Prose roloase, January 10, 1946.
2.
Yomiuri Fochi, January 8, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, January 9, 1946;
Nippon Tixes, January 10, 1946.
3.
Tokyo Sh no n. January 12, 1946.
4.
Tokyo In Japanese, January 10, 1o4o: Yomiur! Hochi, January 12, 1946.
RESTRTCTED

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
-136-
RESTRICTED
demands agreed upon by the participating organizations through democratic procedures.
This proposal met with an immediate and warm response from the Nippon Kyosanto. The
Shakaito registered gusrded approval of the proposal in principle but expressed
fear that the unfriendly relations existing between the Comunists and Socialists
1
might constitute an important impediment.
A few days later Nosaka arrived in Tokyo. His arrival was generally heralded
in the press as presaging a new and probably successful attempt to establish a
popular front. On January 14 Nosaka and other Commmist leaders issued a Joint
2
statement that apparently softened the Communist position on the Emperor question
and called for the speedy organization of a popular front on the besis of the
achievement of agreement by all pro-democratic groups on a general program that
each would then seek to advance.
3
This statement was greeted in fairly friendly fashion by MIZUTANI Chosaburo,
On Jamuary 16, however, the Shakaito Central Committee
met to coneider the popular front issue and arrived at the decieion that the time was
not yet ripe for this kind of action and that the whole issue should be postponed
until after the elections, at which time the Shakaito itself would take the initiative
in seeking some form of united action.5
The Kyōsanto reply, although stressing the party's belief that the organization
of a popular front was an immediate necessity, was extremely conciliatory in tone,
recognizing "that the latest statement made by the Shakaito modifies the attitude of
refusal which has hitherto been maintained." In this statement the Communists once
The exchange of courtesies
continued vith a statement by Mizutant to the effect that the Shakaitō also felt that
J1j1 Press release, January 12, 1946.
2.
See above, p.105.
3.
Nippon Times, January 16, 1946.
4.
Ibid; Yomiur1 Hochi, January 18, 1946.
5.
Yomiur1 Hoch1, January 17, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, January 17, 1946; Mainich1
Shimbun, January 17, 1946.
6.
Asahi Shimbun, January 18, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
- 137-
RESTRICTED
progress had been made and, more important, that party headquarters would not interfere
with the formation of popular fronts on a local basis.
1
The Communists, therefore, had some reason to hope that the Socialists might be
persuaded to reverse their position, and on January 24 KuRokI Shigenori announced
the Kyosantō's intention of making another bid to the Socialists in the near future.
Meanwhile, at the many conferences and mass meetings held in Nosaka's honor, such
Socialist proponents of the united front as KATO Kanju, TAKANO Iwasaburo, and KURODA
Hisao played fairly prominent parts. On January 29, however, a meeting of the
Shakaito Central Executive Committee reaffirmed the decision of January 16 after a
long and heated debate between rightist and leftist factions.? As a concession to the
leftists, e committee was set up for further study of the problem. Members of the
committee included NISHIO Suehiro, MIZUTANI Chosaburo, KATO Kanju, ASANUMA Inajiro,
HIRANO Rikizo, and KONO Mitsu.3 The Communists thereupon expressed their regret at
the Socialist decision and reiterated their intention of promoting a popular front by
4
all available means.
B. Popular Front Organizations in the Pre-Election Period
1. Introduction. The Shakaito decision of January 29 did not lead either to the
renewal of formal Communist proposals to the Socialists or to a return on the part of
the Kyosanto to the bitter invective with which it had greeted the Socialist decision
of December 26. A distinct change occurred in the tactics employed by both parties.
Such left-wing Socialists as KATo Kanju and SUZUKI Mosaburo, who had hitherto been
active in supporting the proposals of the Communists and in working with them, withdrew,
at least outwardly, from active participation and agitation. Leadership in the movement
1.
Asah1 Shimbun, January 18, 1946.
2.
Jiji Press release, Jamuary 29, 1946; Asah1 Sh1mbun, January 31, 1946;
Yomiuri Hoch1, January 31, 1946.
3.
Tokyo in Japanese, January 29, 1946; Yomiuri Hochi, January 30, 1946.
4.
Yomiuri Hochi, February 1, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.97)
- 138 -
RESTRICTED
for bringing about unity of action among the various leftist groups passed to
YAMAKAWA Hitoshi and ARAHATA Katsuzo, veterans of the prolotarian movement, whose
personalities and checkered political backgrounds frequently led them to assume
positions independent of the discipline and program of any single party. Meanwhile,
the Communists turned their attention to the securing of united front agreements on
a local basis and on specifio issues.
2. The Minshu Jimmin Remmei (Democratic People's League). Early in January,
as has been noted, Yamakawa reemerged as a leading figure in left-wing politics with
his advocacy of a popular front. Apparently without formal affiliations with either
of the two leading left-wing parties, he became increasingly prominent as an elder
stateeman of the proletarian movement seeking to unify all groups but identifying
himself with no one of them.
After he succeeded ONo Shunichi as editor of the Minshu Shimbun, Yamakawa
employed its columms to explain in detail his concept of the popular front.
Primarily, as he described it, it was to be an organization of organizations,
including not only political parties but also cultural, labor, and other groups. It
was to avoid becoming a political party and was hence to exclude individuals from
membership. Unaffiliated persons in sympathy with its progrem were to become members
of groups already part of the front or else join together in groups of their own that
would then affiliate with the front.
1
In February, Yamakawa drew together a group of individuals who were to serve as
the preparatory committee fcr the organization of a popular front to be called the
Minshu Jimmin Remmei (Democratic People's League). Japanese reporte on the composition
of thie group were exceedingly vague, and it is frequently difficult to determine whether
those mentioned as attending its meetings were actually members or individuals whose
presence indicated that their support was being sought rather than that it had actually
1. Minshu Shimbun, January 25, 1946.
RESTFICTO

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
- 139 -
RESTRICTED
been gained. Those frequently mentioned in connection with the group, however, were
most often intellectuals without formal party affiliations, such as journalists
HASEGAWA Nyozokan and KIkUAMI Katsumi and university professors OUCHI Ryo and
SUEHIRO Izutaro. Nosaka was the only Kyosanto member mentioned as actively
participating, but the Communists gave the Minshu Jimmin Remmei their blessing while
warning it to guard against any tendencies in the direction of becoming a political
The Shakaito, on the other hand, not only withheld its approval of the group
but also denied Socialist leaders the right to particpate in its activities as private
individuals.? ARAHATA Katsuzo and TAKANo Iwasaburo, both notably independent of
party discipline, were the only Socialists mentioned in connection with the group's
activities.
In March the sponsors of the Minshu Jimmin Remmei announced their intention of
calling a preparatory meeting in April to which would be invited representatives of
the Shakaitō, the Kyōsanto, the Kyōdoto (Cooperative Party),3 and 700 trade-union and
other groups. In anticipation of this meeting, a provisional twelve-point progrem
was drawn up. Intentionally vague and general with a view to obtaining as wide a
range of support as possible, the progrem demanded immediate resignation of the
Shidehara cabinet and a new constitution drawn up by democratic methods, reform of
capitaliam by a democratically planned economy, strengthening of labor unions,
agrarian democratization, liberation of small business from monopolist domination,
consumer participation in food distribution, women's rights, educational reform,
The preliminary meoting that took place on April 3 does not appear to have been
notably successful. Although 500 persons were present, they represented only 100
Jij1 Press release, March 11, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, March 12, 1946.
2.
Tokyo 1n Japanese, March 9, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, March 10, 1946.
3.
Became the Kyodo Minshuto (Cooperative Democratic Party) in May 1946.
4. J1ji Press rolease, March 27, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, March 28, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
-140-
RESTRICTED
organizations. of those present, only about half were representatives of any
organizations; the others attended merely as private individuals.1 According to one
report, morale was dampened considerably by the absence of all but three of the
2
sponsors.
The preparatory meeting was followed within a few days by a mass meeting in
Hibiya Park directed against the Shidehara cabinet. Although this mass meeting was
apparently well attended, it seems unlikely that it represented a substantial
contribution toward the achievement of a popular front. Its most conspicuous events
were the shouting down of Liberal speaker ISHIBASHI Tanzan and a heated encounter
between Communist TOKUDA Kyuich1 and Socialist SUZUKI Mosaburo on the food collection
issue, which, according to one report, culminated in an attempt by Tokuda to remove
Suzuki from the platform by force.3
3. Local Popular Front Groups. While refraining from making further formal
overtures to the Shakaito in the period before the l946 elections, the Kyōsanto
continued in its efforts to promote local popular fronts and to secure united action
on specific issues. Progress in the formation of local popular fronts was frequently
reported from one prefecture or another, but the cooperation so achieved seems for
the most part to have been of a distinctly ephemoral charter. The most successful
of the local popular fronts was organized in Kyoto, where the local Socialists
apparently assumed a good deel of the initiative. By February the local branches of
the Kyosanto and the Shakaito had arrived at an agreement; local Liberal officials
had stated that their party had no objections to the participation of membere as
individuals; and a number of otier groups had indicated their intention of
participating in the front.4 The front's program was neither particularly specific
nor particularly radical, calling for the stabilization of the people's livelihood,
1.
Taeng Dispatch, April 3, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, Apr1l 4, 1946.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, Apr1l 4, 1946.
3.
Tseng Dispatch, Apr1l 7, 1946.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, February 6 and 13, March 5, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun,
February 16, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-141-
RESTRICTED
transfer of sovereignty to the people, elimination of feudalism, and clarification of
front was either stable or influential.
4. Popular Fronts on Specific Issues. Popular fronts to seek solutions for
specific problems, particularly the food problem, were a numerous in this period as
local popular fronts, and their accomplishments as ephemeral.
The most significant of these groups appears to have been the Kanto Chihō
Shokuryō Minshu Kyōgikai (Kanto Democratio Food Council).? Leaders of this
group, formally established in February 1946, included Commmists, Commmist
sympathizers, and loft-wing Socialists. Most prominent were KIkUnAMI Katsumi,
KURODA Hisao, HASEGAWA Hirosh1, and HANI Setsuko.3 Both the Shakaitō and the
Kyosanto appear to have given their blessing to this organization,4 which
opposed compulsory collection of rice from the farmers and called for the
disclosure of hoarded foodstuffs and for popular management of food distribution.5
1.
J1j1 Press release, January 29, 1946.
2.
Kantō-chihō includes Ibaraki, Tochig1, Gumma, Saitama, Chiba, and Kanagawa
Prefectures and Tokyo Hetropolis.
3.
Mainichi Shimbun, February 12, 1946.
4.
Jij1 Press release, January 21, 1946; Nippon Sangyo Keizai, February 12, 1946.
5.
Mainichi Shimbun, February 12, 1946; Tokyo Shimbun, March 1, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.98)
- 142 -
RESTRICTED
II. THE LEFT AND THE FORMATION OF THE YOSHIDA CABINET
A.
The General Eloction of Apr11 10, 1946
1. Introduction. The election of April 10, 1946 offered the newly organized
Japanese political parties their first opportumity to test their popular support.
Moreover, although Japan was still operating under the Meiji Constitution, which
established no formal connection between the composition of the Diet and the
composition of the cabinet, it was evident that occupation policies had changed the
situation in fact if not in form and, therefore, that the results of the election
might have considerable effect upon the nature of the post-election cabinet. For
the proletarian parties the election was particularly significant as their first
opportunity to campaign untrammeled by government prejudice and police interferance.
The Shakaito's postponement of its decision on the popular front made it
inevitable that the two major proletarian parties should run independent campaigns.
It was obvious also that the results of the election would be of considerable
importance in determining the attitude of the Socialists toward cooperation with
the Communists.
2. Socialist Policy. In December, when active campaigning began, the Socialists
were fairly conservative in their nominating policy. At a meeting of the Party
Election Committee on December 14, it was decided that the party would put approximately
200 candidates in the field. Candidates were to be recommended by prefectural
headquarters and approved by the Central Executive Committee; their number was not to
exceed one third of the total seats to be filled in any single constituency except
in such areas as Tokyo, where the party enjoyed unusual strength; and they were to
be assisted by party headquartors, which would provide campaign literature and
By the beginming of January the Socialists had nominated about 165 candidates.
The issuance of the SCAP purge directive on January 4, however, caused the Socialists
to reexamine their nomination policy in the light of the improvement in their
1. Mainichi Shimbun, December 15, 1945; Nippon Times, December 16, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
-143-
RESTRICTED
competitive position that resulted from the fact that, as compared with their major
opponents, the Liberals and the Progressives, the Socialists could expect to lose
but little strength in a drastic purge. At this time, therefore, the Central
Executive Committee decided to increase the mmber of party candidates to about
300.1 When the nominations closed, the Shakaito had given its official support to
In the election campaign the Shakaito adopted as its slogan "Rise or Fall;
Socialism or Capitaliam," arguing that only through adoption of the Socialist
program? could Japan survive. The Socialists were careful, however, to emphasize
their allegiance to the principle of gradualiam. Thus KATAYAMA Tetsu declared:
"First of all a representative government is to be established
through which socialization is to be executed to avoid unnecessary
confusion which is inevitably brought about when the process of
socialization is effected by a violent revolution. To achieve this
objective Parliament is to be radically reconstructed to truly
represent the public will Furthermore, special attention is needed
in making a decision on where to begin socialization. Thus, coal,
iron and fertilizer industries, banking, electric generation and
transportation constitute the enterprises which are to be placed
under national management, first of all. This, however, is not to
mean either the free confiscation of private property by the
Government or the despotiem of the proletariat. The procedure of
nationalization is to be deliberately considered by Parliament,
which is the highest inatitution of legislation in a democratic
state."4
In the election the Socialists polled about 9 million votes and elected 93 members.
(See table.) Of their major rivals, the Shimpotō (Progressive Party) polled
approximately 10 million and also olected 93 candidates,5 while the Jiyūto (Liberal
Party) polled approximately 12 million votes and seated 141 candidates.
3 Communist Policy. Initially, Communist policy called for the postponement
of the general election on the grounds that existing circumstances would favor the
1. Kyodo 1n Kana, January 5, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, January 5, 1946.
0IR 3492, Analysis of the 1946 General Eloction, May 15, 1946, RESTRICTED.
3.
For details, see Part II, Chapter I, above.
4.
Mainichi Shimbun, Apr1l 2, 1946.
5.
For further details see OIR-3492. The figures on members given above were
subsequently modified by purge, death, by-elections, and the affiliation of
independents. At one point, before the Diet dissolution of March 1947, the
Shakaitō held a high of 99 seats.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 469 === (confidence 1.00)
-144-
RESTRICTED
LEFT-WING PARTIES IN THE LOWER HOUSE ELECTION OF APRIL 1946
Socialist Vote
Communist Vote
Number
Percentage
Number
Percentage
of
of
of
of
Election Districts
Votes
Total Votes
Votes
Total Votes
Hokkaido
lst District
307,952
18
129,435
7
2nd District
90,997
11
41,095
5
Total
398,949
16
170,530
7
Aomori
70,899
11
12,195
2
Iwate
118,524
15
17,646
2
Miyag1
164,203
19
26,756
3
Akita
143,001
18
17,942
2
Yemagata
124,413
14
19,979
2
Fukushima
194,129
11
39,453
2
Ibaraki
180,823
11
61,874
4
Toohigi
206,451
21
34,196
3
Guma
264,290
24
39,824
4
Saitama
326,046
17
112,564
6
Chiba
152,054
9
53,978
3
Tokyo
lst District
266,990
24
123,608
11
2nd District
652,303
34
162,392
8
Total
919,293
30
286,000
9
Kanagava
463,852
26
95,228
5
Niigata
lst District
188,891
27
29,515
4
2nd District
162,358
19
22,341
3
Total
351,249
23
51,856
3
Toyama
82,916
12
9,530
1
Ishikawa
83,142
13
22,499
4
Fukui
75,151
15
12,614
3
Yamanashi
177,472
32
25,348
5
Nagano
318,988
16
162,043
8
RESTRICTED

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
-145-
RESTRICTED
Socialist Vote
Commnist Vote
Number
Percentage
Number
Percentage
of
of
of
of
Election Districts
Votes
Total Votes
Votes
Total Votes
Gifu
150,367
15
9,873
1
Shizuoka
407,525
20
50,157
2
Aichi
lst District
445,308
25
57,672
3
2nd District
84,396
10
28,761
3
Total
529,704
20
86,433
3
Mie
155,887
15
23,608
2
Shiga
148,815
26
9,706
2
Kyoto
211,805
19
60,532
5
Osaka
lst District
168,991
21
61,296
8
2nd District
314,317
21
85,178
6
Total
483,308
21
146,474
6
Hyogo
lst District
382,608
24
75,222
534
2nd District
70,769
10
20,798
Total
453,377
20
96,020
Nara
70,876
12
17,690
3
Wakayama
63,804
10
12,572
2
Tottori
47,880
12
15,489
4
Shimene
135,618
21
23,071
4
Okayama
155,177
14
41,880
4
Hiroshima
245,652
13
36,300
2
Yamaguchi
120,546
13
28,933
3
Tokushima
60,118
11
5,833
1
Kagawa
142,681
24
14,931
2
Ehime
117,879
13
24,769
3
Kochi
116,909
20
27,058
5
Fukuoka
lst District
220,656
20
26,113
2
2nd Distriot
406,043
44
34,220
4
Total
626,699
31
60,333
3
RESTRICTED

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-146-
RESTRICTED
Socialist Vote
Commmist Vote
Number
Percentage
Number
Percentage
of
of
of
of
Kleotion Districts
Votos
Total Votes
Votes
Total Votes
Saga
55,050
9
11,727
2
Nagasaki
99,225
12
10,246
1
Kumamoto
104,837
9
11,136
1
Oita
100,713
13
18,547
2
Miyazaki
59,754
10
9,043
2
Kagoshima
178,355
14
11,342
1
TOTALS
9,858,406
18
2,135,757
4
RESTRICTED

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
-147-
RESTRICTED
supporters of the status quo and operate to the disadvantage of genuinely demooratic
forces.1 Like the Socialists, hovever, the Commmists derived considerable
encouragement from the purge directive of January 4 and, as a result, announced
their intention of nominating at least 200 candidates.
When the nominations closed,
Early in the campaign the Communists announced that their principal planks were
stabilization and promotion of the livelihood of the people, punishment of war
criminals, abolition of the Emperor system, and establishment of a people's republican
government with a new democratic constitution.4 There was apparently some fear within
the party that emphasis on the last point might be disadvantageous, but, whatever
sentiment to this effect existed, it was not sufficiently strong to determine party
policy.5 There also seems to have been some controversy as to whether it was
appropriate for Commmists to concern themselves to any extent with attempts to gain
influence in parliamontary institutions. On this point Tokuda declared:
"There are two extreme attitudes toward the election. One is to
rake up as many votes as possible, as is seen in the established
parties, while the other is to utilize the election for propaganda
purposes only and not attach much importance to the number of ballots.
Our Commumist Party sides with neither. My party, while attaching
importance to the significance of propaganda and to the education of the
people, takes a serious view of the mumber of votes to be acquired as
the result of the election."6
In.the election the Kyosanto polled a little over 2 million votes and seated
five candidates,7 a number considerably below 1ts initial predictions. The day
after the elections the Kyosanto called for the holding of a new election on the
grounds that administrative delinquency had led to incomplete registration and
Jij1 Press release, December 27, 1945; Nippon Times, December 19, 1945.
2.
J1j1 Press release, February 14, 1946.
3.
See OIR-3492.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, December 19, 1945.
5.
Akahata, February 18, 1946.
6.
Yomiur1 Hoch1, Jamuary 21, 1946.
7.
Communist reprosentation later rose to 6 as the result of the disqualification
of a successful candidate in a district where a Commmist had the second highest
number of votes.
8.
J1ji Press release, April 1l, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.98)
- 148 -
RESTRICTED
B. Major Issues Affecting Lart-Wing Activities in the Cabinet Formation Period
1. Political Background of Left-Wing Activities. The results of the election,
which gave no single party a majority of seats in the Diet, made it apparent that a
coalition would be the essential prerequisite to the formation of a cabinet with
some proapect for stability. The similarity of the background and attitudes of
the Liberals and Progressives may perhaps have mede inevitable their ultimate
cooperation in the formation of a government. Rivalries and ambitions, to some
extent inherited from the prewar period, were sufficiently strong, however, to
lead each of the two conservative parties to look with some interest on the
prospect of joint action with a third party at the erpense of its loading
competitor or even upon the possibility of a three-party coalition. In this
situation, the bargaining power of the Socialist was fairly strong. Their ability
to use it, however, was diminished by the issues of principle upon which the party
was split, issues in which the question of collaboration with bourgeois parties as
against collaboration with the Communists played an important part.
In all, forty days were consumed in the negotiations required to organize a
cabinet. The negotiations went through several stages. The firat began immediately
after the April 10 election with Premier SHIDEHARA Kijuro's attampt to remain in
office and ended on April 22 with Shidehara's resignation partly as a result of the
opposition of the Four-Party Committee organized by the Socialists, Liberals,
Cooperatives, and Communists.
From April 22 until the disqualification of Liberal President HAToYAMA Ichiro
on May 4, the Liberals took the lead in seeking to organize a coalition cabinet.
During vnis period an agreement, fairly limited in natur was reached between the
Liberals and the Socialists, and Shidehara prepared to recommend Hatoyama to the
Eperor.
Following Hatoyama's disqualification on May 4, the initiative passed to the
Socialists and the Progressives, with each party seeking to secure Liberal cooperation
on 1ta own terme. The Socialists made no headway in this endeavor, however, end on
RESTRICTED

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.98)
-149-
RESTRICTED
May 7 they anmounced their intention of attempting to form a purely Socialist cabinet.
Shidehera, however, refused to recommend the Socialists to the throne.
The final stage began on May 16, when YOSHIDA Shigeru received the imperial
mandate. After six additional daye of negotiations, the Yoshida cabinet, roprosenting
a Liberal-Progressive coalition, was formally installed on May 22.
2. The Coalition Issue. The coalition issue gave rise to a great deal of
controversy within the Shakaitō Central Executive Committee, which conducted all
Socialist negotiations during this period. Three factions emerged: a left wing opposed
to coalition with either the Liborals or the Progressives and in general sympathy with
Communist popular front proposals; a right wing that favored coalition even with the
Progressives; and a center group opposed to coalition with the Progressives but
somewhat inclined toward cooperation with the Liberals, especially if the latter were
willing to accept Socialist leadership. The coalitionists argued in general that the
1ssue before Japan at the time was not a choice between capitaliam and socialiam and
that the Socialists would be able to bring about the achievement of at least some of
their aims by obtaining representation in the government. To this their opponents
replied that the attainment of a working parliamentary system would be dependent
upon the existence of a healthy opposition and that, furthermore, desertion by the
Socialists of their position as a proletarian party could lead only to a strengthening
The first important controversy over the coalition isasue arose with Shidehara's
request for cooperation in the reorganization of his cabinet. In this controverey
victory went to the anti-coalitionists, and the Socialists took the lead in organizing
the Four-Party Committee, which had as 1ts objective the overthrow of the Shidehara
cabinet.2
The iseue of participation in a bourgeois cabinet was, of course, far from
settled by Shidohara'e resignation. Immediatoly after he resigned, the issue was
1.
Asahi Shimbun, Apr11 25, 1946.
2.
Jij1 Press release, Apr11 13, 15, and 18, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, April 17 and 19,
1946; Asahi Shimbun, Apr11 18, 1946; Tokyo 1n Japanese, April 19, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.98)
-150-
RESTRICTED
placed before the Socialists once again by Hatoyama's statement that the Liberals
were determined to seek Socialist cooperation but would not refuse a Progressive
1
offer.
On April 23, after a number of conversations between Liberal and Socialist
leaders the Shakaito Central Executive Committee met again. The following day it
to achieve Shakaito support, a coalition cabinet would have to accord the
premierehip to the Socialists and oxclude the Progressives. The Liberals found this
proposal unacceptable, especially since they felt that they themselves should lead
the new cabinet, but expressed the hope that the Shakaitō would change its position.
The Socialist decision was reaffirmed, however, by a subsequent meeting of the
3
Central Executive Committee, as well as by a meeting of Socialist Diet members.
For a brief time thereafter, the Socialists tended to support the Four-Party
Committee as the appropriate source of future decisions on the cabinet issue,
4
despite the opposition of the Liberals and of some rightists within the Shakaitō.
On April 30, the Socialist coalitionists, who were reported to have held extended
discuesions with Liberal leaders, succeeded in having the coalition issue raised
in a new form in the Central Executive Committee. Two subjects were discuesed:
the possibility of Liberal-Socialist agreement on certain crucial queetions, which
would enable the Socialists to support but not assume office in a Liberal cabinet;
and the possibility of renewing the interrupted negotiations between the leaders
of the two parties. It was agreed after much discussion that Katayama should meet
with Hatoyama but that any Socialist-Liberal agreement should be submitted to the
1.
J1j1 Press rolease, Apri1 23, 1946.
2.
Tb1d., Apr11 24, 1946.
3.
Tokyo 1n Japanese, Apr11 24, 1946; J1j1 Press release, April 24, 1946;
Asahi Shimbun, Apr1l 25, 1946.
4.
Yomiur1 Hochi, Apr1l 24 and 26, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, Apr11 26 and 27, 1946;
Jiji Press rolease, Apr1l 25, 1946.
5.
Jij1 Press release, April 30, 1946; Tokyo 1n Japanese, April 30, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.98)
- 151-
RESTRICTED
Committee grew increasingly heated and finally the Socialists agreed to concur with
the Iiberals only on the food issue, avoiding commitments on the constitution,
inflation, and unemployment end at the same time expressing their approval in
principle of a popular front.1 On the afternoon of May 3, the Liberel-Socialist food
agreement was published, end that evaning Shidehara notified SCAP of his intention
of recommending to the Emperor that Hatoyama be asked to form a cabinet,? a step
Shidehara had previously committed himself to teke only after the attainment of
Socialist-Liberal agreement on policy.3 The question of the extent to which the
Socialists and Liberals had actually atteined agreement, however, became somewhat
irrelevant when, on the following day, Hatoyema was disqualified under the January
4 purge directive and the political situation was restored to its original state of
confusion.
The disqualification of Hatoyema naturally strengthened the left wing in the
On May 5 Katayama informed Shidehara that the Socialists would seek to form a
coalition with the Liberale that m'ght also include the Cooperatives and the
Communists but would exclude the Progressives. Later in the afternoon this position
was affirmed by the Central Executive Committee, which once again announced the
Socialist intention of organizing e popular front.5
Like previous efforts, however, this plan was doomed to failure: the Liberals
demanded exclusion of the Conmunists; the Communists demanded exclusion of the
Liberels; and the Shakaitō 1teelf was hopelessly divided on this question.6 Once
again a new approach was attempted, and on May 9, after the usual prolonged
1.
J1ji Press release, May 3, 1946.
2.
Asahi Shimbun, May 5, 1946.
3.
Soong Dispatch to Central Newe, May 1, 1946.
4.
Tokyo in Japanese, May 4, 1946; Jiji Press release, May 4, 1946.
5.
J1j1 Shimpo, May 6, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, Mey 6, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun,
May 6, 1946; J1ji Prese release, May 6, 1946.
6.
Asehi Shimbun, May 7, 8, and 9, 1946; Main1ch1 Shimbun, May 9, 1946; Mimpo,
May 9, 1946; J1j1 Pros8 release, May 7, 8, and 9, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
- 152 -
RESTRICTED
controversy, the Shakaito Central Executive Committee decided to request a mandate
for the formation of a purely Socialist cabinet.1 On May 13 the refusal of
Shidehera to grant this request put an end to active Socialist participation in
negotiations for the formation of a cabinet.
3. The Popular Front Issue. It is evident from the events that preceded the
Socialist decision of May 9 that the popular front issue, although never decisive,
assumed some importance in this decision and the negotiations that preceded it.
The proponents of the popular front, both Commmists and left-wing Socialists,
employed two tactics to advance their aims: the perpetuation of the Four-Party
Committee and the expansion of its euthority against the opposition of the Liberals
and right-wing Socialists; and the organization of mass meetings and demonstrations
of all kinds to exert pressure on Shidehara to recommend a popular front cabinet and
on the Socialists to seek to form one. Neither of these tactics, of course, was
particularly successful in achieving its ultimate aim. The Four-Party Comittee was
an unlikely source for serious political leadership not only because of the extreme
diversity of ite composition but also because the relative weight of a potential
Liberal-Progressive combination was so great in comparison with that of eny possible
Socialist-centered combination as to make major concessions on the part of the
Liberals unnecessary. Popular pressure in the form in which it was utilized by
the Communists and left-wing Socialists during this period, moreover, was not
particularly effective and ultimately was condemmed by SCAP.
Nevertheless, by the time the Yoshida cabinet was actually installed, proponents
of the popular front could derive comfort from the fact that the Shakaito had
committed itself to an opposition role in the Diet and, more emphatically than in
the past, to the organization of a popular front.
1. Jij1 Press reloase, May 10, 1946; Yomiur1 Shimbun, May 10, 1946 (The Yomiur1
Hochi became the Yomiuri Shimbun on May 1, 1946).
RESTRICTED

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
- 153-
RESTRICTED
III. THE RESUMPTION OF UNITED FRONT NEGOTIATIONS
A. The Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei (Democratic Front to Save the Nation)
1. Renewal of Socialist Activities. On January 16, 1946, the Shakaitō Contral
Committee had decided to postpone consideration of the united front issue until
after the elections and on January 29 had reeffirmed this decision. On May 3 the
question was raised once again by KATo Kanju in a meeting of the Shakaitō Central
Executive Committee. At this time, Kato proposed that the Communists, the
Cooperatives, trade unions, farmers' groups, and cultural organizations be invited
to participate in a front that would have as its objectives democratization of
Japan, solution of the food crisis, prevention of inflation, solution of the
A meeting of the Socialist Diet members on May ll marked the beginning of
active Shakaitǒ efforts for the formation of a united front. The desire to take
concrete action was stimulated by dissatisfaction with the policy pursued by the
Central Executive Committee during the coalition negotiations. A resolution
opposing coalition with the conservative parties was passed, and the adoption of
a popular front policy was approved in principle. At the same time the initiative
in presenting concrete plans was taken by MORITo Tatsuo, who proposed the
organization of a front to achieve the social revolution by peaceful and
democratic means. To emphasize its essentially patriotic character, Morito suggested
that the new movement be entitled Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei (Democratic Front to
This proposal was adopted and shortly thereafter a committee on
In the ensuing discussions it beceme evident that, both within and without the
Shakaito, proponents of a popular front were separated by basic divergencies with
1.
Asahi
Shimbun, May 4, 1946.
2.
Asah1
Shimbun, May 12 and 13, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, May 13, 1946.
3.
Asah1
Shimbun, May 14, 1946; J1j1 Press reloase, May 25, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.98)
-154-
RESTRICTED
regard to its composition. One group, composed mainly of rightists, urged that
memberahip in the new organization be confined to political parties and that, at
least for the time being, trade unions and other mass organizations be excluded
or, at best, placed in a subsidiary position.1 It was apparent that proponents of
this line of action sought to achieve the support of the Cooperatives and
independents in the Diet and realized that, if the front's membership were confined
to political parties and its activities to the Diet, Commnist influence would be
exceedingly small. Within this group, furthermore, there was some feeling that
The opposing forces raised strenuous objections to any plan for a popular
front confined to political parties and insisted instead that both trade unions and
cultural organizations be included. Although a number of left-wing Socialists
identified themselves with this point of view, wholeheartedly supported by Communist
public statements, leadership in the controversy was assumed by a trade-union
organization, the Minshu Sensen Sokushinkai (Democratic Front Acceleration Society).
2. Trade-Union Pressure. The Minshu Sensen Sokushinkai was an outgrowth of the
May Day demonstration. The demonstration had bean organized on united front
principles by Socialists, Communists, and trade unions, and its 22-point resolution
had included demands for the establishment of a popular front government and the
which ropresentatives of the Rodo Kumiai Sōdome1 (National Foderation of Labor), the
Kantō Chihō Rōdō Kumiai Kyōgikai (Kanto District Labor Union Council), and the
Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi (National Congross of Industrial Unions --
then in ite formative phase) participated, was originally intended to bring about
the achievement of the latter aim. With the defection of Sodomei representatives,
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, May 19, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, May 23, 1946.
2.
Asah1 Shimbun, May 24, 1946; Yomiuri Shimbun, May 24, 1946; J11 Pr088
roleaso, May 25, 1946.
3.
Yomiuri Shimbun, May 1, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
-155-
RESTRICTED
however, the group entered upon a period of moribundity, and in its later and
revived form it became a chanmel through which the leaders of the Kanto group
and of the Sanbetsu, many of whom were under Communist influence, could express
1
their popular front demands.
The Minshu Sensen Sokushinkai operated on two basic premises. The first
was that neither the Shakaito nor the Kyosanto could claim to represent fully the
masses of the people and, therefore, in any united front, mass organizations of an
economic and cultural nature should be accorded a position of equality with the
political parties. The second was that, under existing conditions in Japan,
where political power was exercised by feudalistic and bureaucratic government
officials rather than by the Diet, it would be futile to struggle only for control
of the Diet and, therefore, the struggle for democracy should also be carried on
through the direct participation of non-political organizations.
2
3. The Shakeitō Plan of May 26. Discussions in the Shakaito united front
committee reflected the general controversy over the composition of the front, but
on May 26, the committee accepted a compromise proposal drawn up by Morito. The
program of the Socialist-proposed Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei, like Morito's
previous statements, emphasized the achievement of a democratic social movement
by peaceful means. Morito's plan for the structure of the new organization made
concessions to proponents of the inclusion of trade unions, but insured control by
the political parties.
According to Morito's plan, the executive body of the new organization was to
be composed of two sections, the Diet Section and the Popular Movement Section.
The Diet Section was to be composed of representatives of the member political
Jij1 Press reloase, June 19, 1946.
2.
Yom1uri Shimbun, May 25, 1946; Mimpo, May 25, 1946; Jiji Press release,
May 27, 1946; Japanese Home Serv1ce, May 29, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
-156-
RESTRICTED
parties and factions in the Diet, with allocation of membership in the Section
based on strength in the Diet. The Popular Movement Section was to be composed
of an equal number of representatives of the political parties and of member
trade unions. Relations between the two Sections were to be handled by a Ldaison
It was quite obvious that, under this plan, the Diet Section would dominate
the organization and that, within the Diet Section, the numerical insignificance
of Kyosanto Diet representation would militate to that party's disadvantage. In
addition, the Communists were weakened by the exclusion of cultural organizations,
and their practice of periodically attacking Shakaitō leaders as war criminals
was indirectly condemmed by the provision that all members of the league were to
refrain from speaking or acting in violation of the principles of cooperation,
2
integrity, and friendship.
The compromise plan appears to have met with the approval of all factions
within the Shakaitō. As was only to be expected, it evoked bitter criticism from
the Minshu Sensen Sokushinkai and the Kyosanto. On the other hand, the Minshu
Jimmin Remmei, which had been delaying its own formal inauguration pending Shakaito
action, offered its support to the organization as proposed by the Socialists.
Yamakawa, however, expressed the hope that Diet members would keep in close touch
with non-Diet members so that they would not become professional politicians utilizing
the public for the erpansion of their party interests.3
On June 3 the Sokuahinkai held a meeting at which representatives of the
Sanbetsu, the Kanto federation, and the Kyosantō were present. As a result of this
meeting, a counterproposal was drawn up that called for a united front on an equal
basis of nationally organized political parties, trade unions, farmers'
organizations, cultural groups, and organizations of women and youth. Diet members
1..
Asahi Shimbun, May 27, 1946; Yomiur1 Shimbun, May 27, 1946.
2.
Ibid.
3.
Jij1 Press release, May 30, 1946; Mainich1 Shimbun, May 31 and June 1, 1946;
Kyodo in Kana, June 1, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
-157-
RESTRICTED
belonging to parties affiliated with the proposed organization were to act under
its direction and in conformity with its objectives. These objectives were to be
the establishment of democracy and the achievement of the aims set forth in the
May Day and Food May Day resolutions. Participating organizations were to be free
in her private capacity and apparently the only Socialist attending, stated that
she personally subscribed to these principles and suggested that attempts be made
to win over other Socialists. Accordingly, a committee was organized for this
4. The Exclusion of the Commmists. On June 9, the Shakaito Central Committee
agreed unanimously to the Morito plan, and the next day SUzukI Mosaburo called upon
the leaders of the Kyosanto to request their participation. The Commmists replied,
however, that preparations for the new organization should be made not by the
Shakaito alone but by a conference of nation-wide organizations, in which the
Sokushinkai should be represented.3 On June 18, furthermore, the Cooperatives
formally declined the Socialist invitation to participate.
In the ensuing week negotiations between the interested parties continued
but lod to no further progress, and considerable sentiment developed within the
Shakaitō for abandonment of the plan.5 On July 14, however, the issue was
resolved by a Shakaitō Central Executive Committee decision, adopted over left-
wing opposition, to exciude the Kyosanto from further negotiations. For the time
being, it was decided, the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei was to be composed of the
Shakaitō, the Sōdōme1, the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai (Japan Farmers' Union), the
1. Jij1 Prose reloase, June 3, 1946; Yomiuri Shimbun, Jume 5, 1946; Akahata,
June 6, 1946.
2.
Jij1 Press release, Jume 3, 1946.
3.
Asah1 Shimbum, June 10, 1946; J1j1 Press release, Jume 10, 1946;
Yomiuri Shimbun, June 11, 1946.
4.
Japanese Homs Service, June 18, 1946.
5.
Asahi Shimbun, July 14, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
-158-
RESTRICTED
Suiheisha (National Equalization Society), and the Minshu Jimmin Remmei.
Negotiations with the umions of the government commnications workers, the railway
workers, and the seamen were, however, to be continued.1 This policy was subsequently
approved by the party's Diet members with the exception of mall groups from Kyoto
Communists, although attacking what they described as a maneuver of the right-wing
Socialists contrary to the will of the masses, announced their determination to
contimue the struggle for a popular front and to seek the cooperation of the
Shakaito and all other mass organizations.3
Still another blow was dealt to Commnnist aspirations on July 19, when the
Shakaito Central Executive Comittee's decision to break off negotiations with the
Commmists was passed down to the local branches in the form of a four-point directive.
According to this directive no new united front groups were to be formed with
Commmmist participation; local branches of the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei were to
be organized on the basis of the July 14 decision; where Socialist-Commist united
front organizations had been operating unsuccessfully, they were to be dissolved;
where such united fronts were operating successfully, no imediate action was to be
taken, but efforts were to be made for their eventual dissolution.
B. The Inauguration of the Minshu Jimmin Remmei
The preparatory committee of the Minshu Jimmin Remmei supported the Socialist
decision to exclude the Commmists and agreed to join the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen
Remmei. A few days after the Socialist decision, MITAMURA Shiro, one of the leaders
of the Minshu Jimmin Remei, declared that the Communists had only themselves and
their tactics to blame for the Socialist action. He added that he and his
Japenese Home Sarvice, July 15, 1946 Tokyo Shimbun, July 16, 1946;
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, aly 17, 1946.
2.
Mimpo, July 18, 1946.
3.
4.
Jij1 Pross rolease, July 19, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
-159-
RESTRICTED
1
Despite this discouraging outlook, the leaders of the Minshu Jimmin Remmei
Speakers at the inaugural meeting criticized both the Socialists and the
of a democratic government on the basis of a united democratic front. It was
emphasized that the new organization did not seek to become a third prolotarian
The executive committee of the new organization, like the preparatory
committee, was characterized by a proponderence of intellectuals. They inoluded
Profossors OUCHI Ryo, ARISAWA Hiromi, and TAkAHASHI Masao; AOYAMA Kazuo, who had
returned from China in the spring; and YAMAkAWA Kikuya (wife of YAMAKAWA Hitoshi,
who had been prevented by illness from taking an active part in the inauguration
ceremonies).3
C. Movemonts for Trade-Union Unification
1. Sanbetsu Overtures to the Sōdōmei. The Socialist decision to exclude the
Commumists from the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei and to confine its membership for
the time being to such Socialist-influenced organizations as the Sodomei and the
Nippon Nomin Kumiai left open the question of trade-umion unity as distinct from a
united front of political perties.
1.
Jiji Press release, July 17, 1946.
2.
Jij1 Pross release, July 20 and 21, 1946; Mimpo, July 26, 1946;
Kaizo, August 1946.
3.
Jiji Press release, July 21, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.91)
R355903
CLASSIFIEC MATERIAL
DATE
SENT:
DR7/NA Em. 826 5A 1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON 2B. D. C.
(Office Symbol)
NA Kr ivnc
File
SR 2li
Par
DATE
RECEIVED:
(Signature of Addressee)
IDENTIFICATION.
I1H Ricding Fle fow week
3126
ADDRESSEE SIGN AFTER CHECKING AND RETURN TO SENDER

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
Department of State
Washington 25, D.C.
TO:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
Stop 27

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
-160-
RESTRICTED
Although previous statements of the Sodomei had indicated that its attitude
toward the united front in general was not an enthusiastic one, the Sanbetau at its
inaugural meeting decided to make further overtures to the rival federation.1 On
August 20 two motions were presented at the Sanbetsu meeting. One called for a
merger of the two organizations; the other proposed merely a united front. There
was considerable enthusiastic support for the former proposal. Its opponents
argued, however, that, whereas the Sanbetsu was organized on a democratic basis
with the rights of 1ts locals fully protected, the Sodomei was a centralized
organization under the leadership of "labor bosses who had often betrayed the
interests of the working class" and that, therefore, an outright merger would
endanger the cause of uemocracy in the trade-union movement. After prolonged
discussion, the united front motion was passed by what was described in press
2
reports as an overwhelming majority.
On September 3, therefore, the executive committee of the Sanbetau offered
the Sodomei cooperation on a number of specific problems. It proposed joint
assistance to the railway workers in their current dispute with the government;
alteration of the method of electing the labor members of the Central Labor
Relaticns Committee and its subsidiaries from government selection from panels
proposed by the trade umions to outright trade-union elections; adoption of
measures to deal with the economic problems that would be created by reparations
payments; establishment of a council on industrial reconstruction; and proposal
of measures for the prevention and relief of unemployment.3 These overtures,
however, do not appear to have olicited any response from the Sōdomei.
2. Repercussions of the Electric Power Diepute. On November 4, the Yoshida
cabinet rejected the mediation proposal of the Central Labor Relations Committee
1. For background, Bee pp. 124 ff.
2.
Jiji Press release, August 20, 1946.
3.
Ib1d., September 3, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
-161-
RESTRICTED
in the electric power dispute.1 The unanimous left-wing resentment that this
action aroused and the chorus of demands for the resignation of the cabinet that
it stimulated, as well as widespreed popular dissatisfaction with the government's
economic policy in general, all gave rise to new hopes of success on the part of
proponents of the united front.
Accordingly, on November 1l the Sanbetsu proposed to the Sodomei that a
general congress of labor be formed that would call for the establishment of a
standard wage syatem in opposition to the proposals put forward by the government
in the electric power dispute, e more adequate unemployment insurance scheme than
that proposed by the government, and the improvement of working conditions.
2
On
the same day the Sodomei published a statement calling for the resignation of the
Yoahida cabinet. In the same statement, however, the Sodomei declared that,
although it recognized the desirability of united labor action in support of the
electric workers, it could not immediately participate in such action in view of
A week later the national press and redio workers' union, a Sanbetau affiliate,
proposed that a meeting of the three federations -- the Sanbetsu, the Sodomei, and
the Rodo Kumiai Kaigi -- be held to discuss the possibility of organizing a workers'
and farmers' congress that would have as its object the overthrow of the Yoshida
1. Contrary to its original commitment not to put the Labor Relations Law into
effect until after the passage of a Labor Standards Lew, the government
promulgated the Labor Relations Ad justment Law on October 13, with the obvious
intention of preventing a strike in the electric power industry scheduled for
October 15. Invocation of the law not only made it possible to prevent the
strike but also enabled the government to call for the submission of the dispute
to the Central Iabor Relations Committee. The Committee's mediation proposal
was generally regarded as providing a satisfactory basis for further negotiations
between labor end management. It was repudiated by the government, however, on
the grounde that it would prove inflationary if accepted.
2.
Tokyc Shimbun, November 12, 1946.
3.
Jiji Press release, November 11 and 12, 1946.
4.
J1j1 Press release, November 19, 1946; Yomiur1 Shimbun, November 20, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.98)
- 162 -
RESTRICTED
representatives urged the establishment of a liaison committee to prepare for
ultimate merger of the three groups under the leadership of Matsuoka, and the
Sambetsu representatives supported this proposal. Representatives of the Sodomei,
however, insisted that they could take no stand on the question until their Central
On November 22 the Sodomei finally 1ssued a formal reply to Sanbetau overtures.
The Sodomei, the reply declared, had been working for the unification of labor
sina  the surrender; the current split in the labor camp was the result of attempts
to
te labor disputes besed on en ideology recommending revolution by
violence end lso of the factional activities of the Commmists; and the Sodomei, in
contrast, was sooking the elevation of the position of the workers through
collective contracts, labor-management councils, and the recovery of protection
through the democratic reconstruction of industry. The Sodomei, the statement
continued, was willing to work for the unification of the labor movement with any
group that accepted its policy as so outlined. Before it would cooperate with the
Sanbetsu, however, the latter group must clearly reject the leadership of the
Kyōsantō.2
The Sanbetau, in response, denied that it was influenced by or affiliated with
any political party, asserted that its mombors were free to join the political party
of their own chaice and hence some of them were Commnists just as others were
Socialists, attributed the godomei's charges to miaunderstanding, and reiterated the
desire of the Sanbotsu for a united front.3
Even before this exchange of notes, however, the Shakaitō trade-union committee,
under the leadership of KAto Kanju, had begun to take steps toward promoting the
1. J1j1 Press release, November 20, 1946; Jij1 Shimpo, November 21, 1946.
2. Jiji Press release, November 22, 1946; Jij1 Shimpo, November 23, 1946.
3. Jij1 Press rolease, November 26, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
-163-
RESTRICTED
unification of the trade-union movement. For the next two months, moreover, the
movement for the overthrow of the Yoshida cabinet, in preparation for the
planned government workers' strike of February 1, and in the renewal of
negotiations for a three-party coalition government.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
-164-
RESTRICTED
IV. THE RENEWAL OF COALITION OVERTURES, DECEMBER 1946 - JANUARY 1947
A.
Introduction
The December-January cabinet crisis in Japan was, in some respects, similar to
the 40-day period that preceded the formetion of the Yoshida cabinet in May 1946.
In both periods the Shakaitō was rent by internal controversy over the issue of
cooperation with the conservative parties; Communists and left-wing Socialists alike
utilized widespread labor discontent to put pressure on right-wing Socialists and
on the government for the formation of a Socialist-centered cabinet; the similarities
between the Liberals and Progressives were sufficiently strong to outweigh their
differences and to leed them to ultimate cooperation; and the formation of a Socialist
or Socialist-centered cabinet was widely demanded by the press.
The differences between the two periods, although less striking, were of some
importance. In the first place, the issue of a united front between the Socialists
and Commmists, which played so important a role in the earlier crisis, did not arise
in the latter period, when the Communists were politically isolated, exerting their
influence through the trade unions rather than through the party and its Diet
representatives. Secondly, internal divisions within the two conservative parties
had become considerably stronger, and the Progressives, particularly the group led
by INukAI Ken, had in their program moved somewhat closer to the Socialists.
B.
The Movement for the Dissolution of the Diet
1.
The Pressure for a New Election. Before the promulgation of the new
Japanese Constitution on November 3, l946, sentiment in favor of calling a now
general eloction before May 3, l947 (when the constitution was to go into effect)
was exhibited principally by the Socialists and Communists, but was shared to some
extent by groups in the government parties. By early November, however, the
Yoshida cabinet had made clear 1ts disinclination to call a new election and its
desire to remain in office until the signing of the peace treaty. On November 4,
the cabinet announced a six-point program that left no doubt regarding its hope for
a long-torm tonure.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.97)
-165 -
RESTRICTED
The immediate response of the Socialists to the government's six-point progrem
1
was a demand for diesolution of the Diet on the grounds that the Yoshida cabinet was
incapable of carrying out its announced plans.1 Despite the seeming militanoy of
the Socialist position, however, political commentators suspeoted that the Socialists
would seek to participate in a coalition cabinet rather than attempt to force a new
election. This view seemed to be supported by the events of the September Socialist
convention, at which NISHIo Suehiro, strong advocate of coalition in the earlier
crisis, had been elected secretary general of the party and at which it had been
clearly demonstrated that the left-wing Socialists, although vocal, were still a
minority in the party.
In view of these facts, it was not surprising that, although Socialist
propaganda was free in its criticiams of the government and its demands for a new
election, the party hesitated to commit itself officially to plans for the
presentation of a vote of non-confidence in the ensuing 9lst session of the Diet.
Controversy on this question within the party continued for some time after the opening
of the Diet session on Novamber 28. The left wing utilized trade-union pressure to
support the demand for a non-confidence resolution; the right wing negotiated with
the Cooperative Democrats and the People's Party in an attempt to secure their
support for a dissolution motion, which, it was believed, in contrast to a non-
confidence motion, would not impair the government's prestige and would leave it
free to make coalition offers to the opposition parties.
2. Activities of the Shakaito's Trade-Union Comittee. On November 25 the
Shakaito's trade-union committee and the party's proparatory committee for the
organization of the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remei held a joint conference to discuss
the relationship of the Shekaito to the various labor and farmer bodies -- a question
that had by no means been decided by the exclusion of the Commmists from the
1. Jij1 Press release, November 4, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, November 4, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.98)
-166-
RESTRIOTED
Socialist-sponsored united front. At this meeting it was deoided that the trade-
union ccmittee would call a mmeting of representatives of the three trade-union
A few days later, under the leadership of KATo Kanju, chairmen of the
Shakaito trade union committee, representatives of the three federations mot and
agreed to call an all-Japan trade-union conference. In addition, they proposed
that the Shakaitā mediate in the electric power dispute and that it urge the
goverrment to satisfy the demands of the railroed, communication, and educational
workers.2
At the beginning of December, a second meeting was held at which it was
decided to stage country-wide realies on December 17 that would call for the
resignation of the Yoshida cabinet and would be sponsored by the three-trade-union
Federations and the Mippon Nomin Kumiai.3 Meamvhile, on November 26, the various
government employees' unions that were negotiating with the government had formed
a joint struggle committee to coordinate their activities. On December 2, II
Yashiro, chairman of the committee, emounced that it would not sponsor the
4
December 17 rallies, since the committee's aims were oconomic rather than political.
Neither the Shakaito nor the Kyosanto was officially represented in the
conference that was set up to organize the December 17 rallios. Since, however, the
conference was sponsored by the Shakaito's trade-union committee, the Socialists,
especially the left-wing Socialists, had an important voice in its deliberations.
Moreover, Commmist influence made itself felt through the presence of trade-union
leaders who were either Commmists or Commmist sympathizers. That their influance
was not partioularly strong at this time, however, was indicated by the discuesions
that took place on the question of slogans to be used at the December 17 rallies.
1. Mainichi Shimbun, November 26, 19h6.
2. Jij1 Press release, Movember 29, 1946; Nippon Keizai Shimbun, November 30, 1946.
3. J1j1 Press rolease, December 2, 1946; Asahi Shimbun, December 4, 1946.
4.
Mimpo, December 4, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.98)
- 167 -
RESTRICTD
At a conference meeting on December 10, it was proposed that one of the slogans
adopted for the rallies be a demend for a cabinet led by the Shakaits. Strong
objections were raised to this proposal by ITo Kenichi, one of the Sanbetsu
representatives and a member of the Kyosanto Central Cosmittee. Ito called for a
slogan demanding a Socialist-and Commmmist-centered cabinet, asbed that
representatives of the Kyosanto be named to the executive comittees of the various
rallies, and demanded that the conference go on record as favoring the admission of
the Commmists to the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remmei. Ito's stand precipitated heated
debate but produced nothing more than agreements to make a slight change in the
wording of the proposed slogan so that it called for a cabinet with the "Socialists
as its nucleus" and to allow the local groups preparing for the rallies to make their
own decisions regarding the appointmont of Commnists to the exocutive committee.1
3. The Socialist Decision to Call for Dissolution. Right-wing leaders of the
Shakaitō, although sympathetic to the demands of the trade unions, were hesitant to
comply with them to their full extent. The rightists were anxious to leave the path
open for a coalition offer. Moreover, they were reluctant to allow the party to
become the tail to a trade-union movement operating outside parliamentary channels
and participated in by unions led by Commists or Communist sympathizers,
especially since it was obvious that, without major and improbable splits in the
ranks of the government parties, neither a dissolution motion nor a non-confidence
resolution would be passed by the Diet.
In consequence, the right-wing Socialists sought to improve their position by
seeking the support of the Cooperative Demoorats, the People's Party, and the
Independents' Club in an attempt to center the anti-cabinet movement in the Diet.
On December 4, after meetings of the Socialist Diet members and the Central Executive
Committeo, it was decided to take no further steps until formal consultations hed
1. Jij1 Press release, December 10, 1946; Yomiuri Shimbun, December 11, 1946;
Akahata, Docomber 18, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.99)
-168-
RESTRICTED
1
been undertaken with the two minor parties and the independents.
The reluctance of the right-wing to introduce a non-confidence resolution was
increased by the even greater reluctance of the minor parties to cooperate in such
a move. The minor parties, however, ultimately indicated their willingness to
support a dissolution motion, and on December 14 the Socialist Central Executive
Committee decided to propose dissolution at the Diet session of December l4.2 This
decision, later confirmed by a meeting of the party's Diet representatives,
represented a compromise that the partially acceptable to the Right in that it
ruled out a non-confidence resolution and partially acceptable to the Left in that
the Socialist motion was timed to coincide with the rallies being organized by the
trade unions. The Commnmiste, who had not been consulted throughout these
negotiations, confined themselves to expressing their willingness to cooperate in
On December 17, as scheduled, the Socialists presented a resolution calling
for the dissolution of the Diet on the grounds that the government's financial, food,
and labor policies had been a complete failure.4 Simultaneously, rallies wore held
throughout the country to demand the resignation of the cabinet and call for the
aatisfaction of economic demands. Even on this occasion, however, trade-union unity
was not achieved completely; in Osaka, the Sodômei held its rally on December 16 in
order to avoid associating itaelf with the Sanbetsu.5
As was only to be expected, the Socialist motion was defeated in the Diet by a
vote of 236 to 160. Its defeat left the path open for the government parties to
seek to reduce labor's opposition by securing the participation of the Socialists
in the cabinet. That such an attempt was expected by the Shakaito was indicated by
1.
Jiji Shimpo, December 4, 1946; Jij1 Press release, December 4 and 5, 1946.
2.
Jij1 Press release, December 11, 13, and 15, 1946; Yomiur1 Shimbun,
December 15, 1946.
3.
Jij1 Press release, December 16, 1946.
4.
Asah1 Shimbun, December 17, 1946.
5. Kyodo release, December 14 and 16, 1946; Akahata, December 24, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.99)
-169-
RESTRICTED
the purlication on December 17 of a statement by MIZUTANI Chosaburo, speaking for
the party, to the affect that the Socialists would not hesitate to participate in a
coalition in which they were accorded the premiership, the economic ministries, and
the chairmanship of the Economic Stabilization Board.i
C. Coalition Negotiations, January 4 - January 17, 1947
1.
Conservative Party Attitudes toward a Coalition Government. With the defeat
of the dissolution motion, the initiative passed to the conservative parties. Despite
the fact that the Liberals and Progressives controlled the Diet and, therefore, on
the surface had no real need to seek the support of the Socialists, a number of
factors led many within the ranks of both parties, but especially among the
Progressives, to look with favor upon the idea of a three-party coalition. Labor
unrest, which had been inteneified by a steadily deteriorating economic situation,
might be mitigated by the inclusion of Socialists in the cabinet; cleavages within
the two conservative parties and friction between them had contributed to the
development of a stalemate within the cabinet on economic policy; and the younger
Progressives, under the leadership of INUKAI Ken, had come increasingly to desire
the adoption of an economic policy that, although not calling for outright
socialization, supported the principles of a planmod and controlled economy.
Several weeks of controverey ensued, with the Liberals in general opposing
proposala for e three-party coalition. At a cabinet meeting on January 4, however,
Premier Yoshida stated that it was his conviction that the economic crisis could not
be alleviated by the simple expedient of reorganizing the two-party cabinet, as had
been proposed by the Liberals, and that the cabinet must alter its economic policies
2
and seek coalition with the Socialists.
nceforth, Agriculture Minister WADA Hiroo,
who had aroused violent Liberal opposition, became Yoshida's unofficial agent in
1. Kyodo release, December 18, 1946.
2.
Yomiuri Shimbun, January 4, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, January 6, 1947.
3. J1ji Press release, January 1 and 6, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
- 170 -
RESTRICTED
At first, Yoshida hoped to include Sooialists in the government without resorting
to a resignation of his entire cabinet, but by January 10 it has become apparent that
Yoshida would acquiesce to Socialist demands for cabinet resignation as a
prerequisite to coaliticn.1 Meanwhile, however, the Liberals maintained their
opposition to a coalition with the Socialists, although some support developed for
Yoshida's position among the younger Liberals led by ASHIDA Hitoshi.2 Finally, on
Jamuary 13, the Liberals agreed to leave the decision on a three-party coalition in
the hands of Yoshida, making it clear, however, that they would insist on the
retention of ISHIBASHI Tanzan in the cabinet and continued adherence to his
economic policies.3 Negotiations that had been proceeding on an informal basis thus
continued with official sanction.
2. Socialist Reactions. Division within the government parties as to the
desirability of including the Socialists in a coalition cabinet was paralleled by
divisions among the Socialists as to the terms upon which participation in any such
coalition should be based.
The rightists in the party seemed, on the whole, to be inclined to adopt a
fairly flexible position in negotiations with the Liberals and Progressives rather
than to set up umalterable prerequisites as the price for Socialist participation.
Both wings of the party appeared to be in agreement that the cabinet must resign
prior to the formation of a coalition, that Ishibashi and his policies must be
discarded, and that representatives of the two minor parties must also be included
in the coalition.4 Beyond this, however, there was room for considerable
differonce of opinion as to whether the Socialists should insist on holding the
pramiership or the majority of the economic ministries and as to the extent to which
Socialist policies should be adopted by the cabinet.
1. Jiji Press release, Jamuary 10, 1947.
2. Kyodo release, January 11, 1947.
3. Asah1 Shimbun, January 16, 1947.
4. Jiji Press release, January 7, 10, and 11, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
RESTRICTD
3. Trede-Union Pressure. While controversy continued in the Shakaito, trade-
union activities became at once more militent and less united. The electric power
dispute had by this time been settled, but the dispute between the government and
a large group of its employees hed taken the place of the electric power disputs
as the focus of labor discontent. Thus, two days after the defeat of the
dissolution motion, the sponsors of the rallies of December 17 met and decided
to continue their activities as a committee to overthrow the Yoshida cabinet. At
the same meeting, the question of Commmist participation in the organization was
raised and it was decided that, although the Kyosanto would be excluded from
mombership in the committee, Commmmist representatives would be alloved to attend
subsequent meetings as observers.1 Several days later, at another meeting, it was
decided to organize rallies against the cabinet to take place on December 29.
It was also agreed that the central campaign committee was to meet regularly for
the purpose of formmlating measures for the support of the unions currently
disputing with the goverment. Meanwhile, these unions were enlarging their
joint struggle committee to include representatives of the three federations as well
as of the disputing unions. They continued, however, to refrain from adopting a
By the end of the first week in January, the possibility that the Socialists
would participate in a coalition vith the Liberals and Progressives on terms loss
favorable than those demanded by the Left appeared to be increasing. On January 9
both the Sanbeteu and the Rodo Kumiai Kaigi issued statements deploring this
tendency. The Sanbetsu statement expressed opposition to Yoshida's retention of
power and called for the organization of a democratic goverment that would be led
by the Socialists and in which all the opposition parties would participate. KOBORI
Jinji, speaking for the Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, declared that his organization would
1. Jij1 Press release, December 19, 1946; Jij1 Shimpo, December 20, 1946.
2. Jij1 Press release, December 24, 1946.
REBTRICTED

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.99)
-172-
RESTRICTED
oppose a Liberal-Progressive-Socialist coalition but would support one including
all the opposition parties, even the Kyosanto, if possible.1 Thereupon, MATSUOKA
Komakichi of the Sodomei declared that the organization might be forced to
reconsider its position regarding participation in the trade-union committee for
overthrowing the Yoshida cabinet if the committee pursued a course contrary to
4. Left-Wing Demands. During this period the left-wing Socialists were active
not only in trade-union negotiations but also in developing their own proposals
with regard to Socialist participation in the cabinet. On the question of cabinet
composition, the leftists demanded that the premierahip should be held by KATAYAMA
Tetsu and that Liberal and Progressive members of the cabinet should be of the
"progressive" type.3 Furthermore, the left wing demanded that the policies of the
cabinet should, in certain important matters, be the policies of the Shakaitō. On
January 15 the demands of the leftists were made oven clearer by their publication of
an emergency progrem that they held should be the basis of any cabinet participated
in by the Socialists. The program called for:
1. State management of coal mines, the iron and steel industry,
and the chemical fertilizer industry.
2. State management of large contracting firms.
3. Democratic revision of the Labor Relations Adjustment Law
and passage of a Labor Standards Act.
4. Guarantee of a minimum subsistence wage based on the cost
of living.
Democratization of the rice delivery system and the
establishment of state control over all stockpiles of
fertilizer and farm implements.
6.
Suspeneion of payments on wartime government bonds
including principal and interest.
7.
Suspension of indemnity payments for overseas properties
and reparations removals.
1.
Kyodo release, January 11, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press release, Jamuary 10, 1947.
3.
Mainichi Shimbun, January 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
-173-
RESTRICTED
8. Abolition of price differential payments.
9. Taxation of profits resulting from inflation.
10. Raising of the exemption level for earned and composite
income taxes.
1l. Issuance of new currency after stabilization of tne price
situation.
12. Nationalization of the Bank of Japan.
13. State management of financial and banking institutions.
14. Establishment of a unified investment bank.
15. Guarantee of a minimm standard of living through improvement
of the rationing system.
16. Removal of the monthly cash wage payment limit of 500 yen.
17. Opening of large residences, mobilization of vacant rooms, and
utilization of Daperial Forests for the construction of small
houses.
18. Fair and speedy supply of operating funds and raw materials
to small industry.1
None of these demands represented a significant departure from the Socialist
program, but most of them were far in excess of right-wing expectations of what
could be accomplished in coalition negotiations. Despite accusations that the Left
had violated party discipline, publication of the program appears to have strengthened
the position of the left-wine somewhat. At the same time, its strergth was further
reinforced by the possibility that Nishio and Hirano, leading proponents of coalition,
might be ineligible for cabinet posts because of their wartime activites.
5. Rupture of Negotiat1ons. By mid-January Yoshida had obtained Liberal and
Progressive consent for the initiation of formal negotiations with the Socialists and
the Socialists had apparently arrived at a position less radical than that desired by
the extreme loft wing but also less conciliatory than that hoped for by the extreme
right wing.
1. Kyodo release, January 16, 1946; Mainichi Shimbun, Jamuary 16, 1947;
FBIB, Daily Report, Jamuary 16, 1947, p. DB-1
RESTRICTED

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.98)
- 174 -
RESTRICTED
On the afternoon of January 16, the leaders of the three parties met, and
Yoshida presented hie final plan -- a plan that proved unacceptable to the
Socialists and resulted in a temporary rupture of negotiations.
The proposal put forward by Yoshida called for the retention of Ishibashi
and the inclusion of four Socialists in the cabinet, one to be Minister without
Portfolio and the others to hold the Commerce and Industry, Labor, and
Reconstruction portfolios.1 At a Socialist Erecutive Committee session on the
following day, however, it was asserted that the principal bars to Socialist
cooperation had been the government's determination to retain Ishibashi, its
unwillingness to give the Economic Stabilization and Agriculture and Forestry
portfolios to the Socialists, and its refusal to include the Cooperative
D. Coal1tion Nogotiations, January 20-29, 1947
1. Continued Trade-Union Activities. The second period of coalition
negotiations in general paralleled the first. It differed from the first period
most conspicuously in that the government workers' unions, growing increasingly
militant in their dispute with the government, began to take an active role in
the movement for the overthrow of the Yoshida cabinet.
By January 15 the joint strategy comittee, composed of representatives of
the disputing unions and the three federations, had been set up to direct the
proposed February 1 general strike. On January 20 thie group met with the trade-
union anti-cabinet committee for the express purpose of formulating joint plans.
It was decided at the meeting, attended by over loo trade-union representatives, to
hold a series of rallies on January 28 calling for the overthrow of the Yoshida
cabinet. In addition, after prolonged debate, a Sanbetsu proposel that the
1. FBIB, Da1ly Report (Far East), January 17, 1947, P. DA-5. The Labor and
Reconstruction Ministries were to be organized subaequent to a coalition
agreement.
2. Jij1 Press release, January 17, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.98)
- 175 -
RESTRICTED
Shakaito and Kyosanto be invited to participate in the anti-government committee
On January 23, at a second joint meeting, it was announced that the Kyōsantō
had accepted the invitation and was seeking to persuade the Shakaito to follow its
strike declared that the strikers would aim not only at achievement of their
economic aims but also at the establiehment of a democratic govermment.3
2. The Meeting of the Shakaitō Central Executive Committee. By January 21,
it was evident that Yoshida, supported by Progressive elements and by Wada, was
seeking to renew coalition discussions and that Socialist leaders were
responding to his overtures despite left-wing opposition.
4
On January 23,Socialist policy was thrashed out once again at a meeting of
the Central Executive Committee. At this meeting a two-point resolution was
passed over the opposition of left-wing members KATo Kanju, SUZUKI Mosaburo,
ARAHATA Katauzo, monzO Katau, and KURODA Hisao. The resolution called, first, for
the fmmediate resignation of the Yoshida cabinet on the grounds that it was
incapable of meeting the economic crisis and, second, for the convocation of a
conference of the Liberale, Progressives, Socialists, and two minor parties for
the purpose of setting up a new government. The opposition of the leftists appears
to have been based primarily on their continued desire to demand the premiership
for Katayama and also on their fear that a conference of the type proposed could
lead only to a Liberal-Progressive-Socialist coalition on torms unfavorable to the
Socialista. It was also decided at the meeting that, although the Shakaitō would
not officially sponsor the January 28 rally, 1t would send representatives to
speak at the meeting.5
1.
Jij1 Pross release, January 20, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, January 21, 1947;
Mainich1 Shimbun, January 21, 1947.
2.
Jiji Press release, Jamuary 23, 1947; Mainich1 Shimbun, January 24, 1947.
3.
Jiji Press release, January 23, 1947.
4.
Jij1 Press release, January 22, 1947.
5.
Jij1 Press release, January 23, 1947; Kyodo release, Jamuary 24, 1947;
Asahi Shimbun, January 25, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
-176-
RESTRICTED
At the January 28 mass meeting, YOnEkUBo Mitsusuke, speaking for the Shakaitō,
declared that his party would never participate in a government that included
that the Socialiste would insist on a five-party coalition.? It was thus apparent
that the Socialists had not retreated from the demands that led to the original
rupture of the negotiations.
3. The Second Rupture. On the morning of January 29 the heads of the three
parties met. It was soon obvious that Yoshida, like the Socialists, had not
retreated significantly from his original terms. Yoshida's offer provided for the
immediate resignation of the cabinet and the organization of a new government based
on a three-party coalition. Ishibashi, Yoshida declared, would remain in the
cabinet; Katayama would become Minister without Portfolio; Hirano, Minister of
Reconstruction; Matsuoka, Minister of Labor; Yonekubo or Morito, Minister of
Commerce and Industry.3 That afternoon the Shakaito Central Executive Committee
reorganization of his cabinet on the existing Liberal-Progressive basis.
4. The Prohibition of the February 1 General Strike. Although Yoshida had
succeeded in reorganizing his cabinet by January 3l, only the presence of SĆAP
averted acute crisis in the relations between the government and its dissatisfied
employees. In part motivated by the belief that no satisfactory setilement could
be reacted with a government regarded as reactionary even by moderate unions, the
disputing workors, increasingly under the influence of Communists and Communist
sympathizers, became ever more uncompromising in their response to the mediation
proposals of the Central Labor Relations Committee. SCAP pressure succeeded in
bringing the government to a more conciliatory position late in January, but
failed to have a corresponding effect on the government workors' unions. On
1.
Yomiur1 Shimbun, Jamuary 29, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Shimpo, Jamuary 29, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, Jamuary 29, 1947.
3.
Mainich1 Shimbun, January 30, 1947; J1j1 Shimpo, Jamuary 30, 1947.
4.
Mainichi Shimbun, Jamuary 30, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, Jamuary 30, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
- 177 -
RESTRICTED
January 30, the joint strike committee reaffirmed its intention of calling for a
general walk-out on Fobruary 1. On January 31, however, nine hours before it was
cheduled to begin, the strike was prohibited by SCAP. A week later General
MacArthur informed the Japanese Government of his belief that a general olection
should be held as soon as practicable.
E. The Aftermath
1. Introduction. With the immediate pressure for overthrow of the Yoshida
cabinet diminiehed by the imminence of a general election, the Sanbetsu turned its
attention to perpetuating and expanding the degree of trade-union unity that had
been achieved in the anti-cabinet and joint struggle committees. At the same
time that greater unity was being sought -- and superficially achieved -- among
the trade-unions, the farmers' union was undergoing ite firat serious split,
precipitated in part by opposition to Hirano's activities during the coalition
negotiations and in part by the issue of Communist influence.
2. Organization of the Zenroren (Zenkoku Rōdokumia1 Renraku Kyōgikai --
All-Japan Trade-Unian Liaison Council). Although the joint struggle committee
was dissolved with the prohibition of the February 1 strike, a number of the
unions concerned felt the occasion to be appropriate for the institution of a more
permanent liaison body. On February 3, therefore, representatives of thirty-two
major unions, including the three federations, met to discuss the establishment cf
a preparatory committee for an organization to be kmown as the Zenkoku Rōdōkumiai
Kaigi (All-Japan Trade-Union Congrese), or Zenrō. At this meeting the Sodomei
representative, HARA Toraichi, gave the views of his organization with regard to
the February 1 strike. The Sodome1, he declared, had participated in the Joint
siruggle comittee in order to support the demands of the government workers. It
did not, however, support the general strike, which it regarded as having been
politically motivated. The Sodomei,therefore proposed that each union involved in
the strike investigate ite leadership and that the projected umification of the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.98)
-178-
RESTRICTED
labor front be undertaken by newly elected leaders rather than by what appeared to be
a perpetuation of the joint struggle committee. When this proposal was voted down,
the Sodomei withheld its affiliation and thereafter sent no representatives to Zemrō
meetings.1
On February 17, moreover, aftar the failure of attempts by Rodo Kumiai Kaigi
to induce Sodomei participation, the Central Executive Committee of the Sodomel
voted not only for non-participation in the Zenro but also for its dissolution,
once again on the grounde that the Zenrō was a mere extension of the joint struggle
committee. At the same time, however, the Sodome1 reaffirmed its policy of seeking
the formation of a umited labor front on the basis of opposition to cepitaliam
and to totalitarianiam of the Loft and Right.
2
At this juncture the anti-cabinet committee, which continued in existence until
after the elections, called a meeting of the Zenrokon, the round-table group established
during the period of negotiations for a coalition cabinet. In composition the
Zenrokon differed little from the Zenrō, which continued to have ite own meetings.
The Sodomei, however, apparently regarded as a tactical victory an agreement to
establish under Zenrokon auspices a subcommittee composed of three Sōdomei, three
Sanbetsu, and three independent representatives to make further plans for a unified
organization. Finally, in March this multiplication of organizations -- all
dedicated to setting up a single body - ceased with the dissolution of the Zenrokon
and the Zenro on the basis of an agreement of all parties concerned to participate in
a unified liaison organization, the Zenroren (Zenkoku Rodokumiai Renraku Kyogikai --
All-Japan Trade-Union Liaison Council). Although there 1s no evidence that the
Sanbetau at any time offered serious objections to Sodomei proposals, the principles
upon which the Zenroren was established were in accord with the Sodomei's desire to
1.
Jiji Presm release, February 3, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, February 5, 1947;
Yomiuri Shimbun, February 12, 1947.
2.
Yomiuri Shimbun, February 12, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, February 14, 1947;
Jij1 Press release, February 18, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.98)
- 179 -
RESTRICTED
maintain full independence within the council. All Zenroren decisions were to
be reached by the unanimous vote of its constituent unions; the Zenroren was not
to issue directives violating the autonomy of its members; and major emphasis was
to be placed on liaison and consultation. Despite the Sodomei-sponsored resolution
adopted at the inaugural meeting calling for powerful joint struggle to solve the
problems created by the Yoshida cabinet's reactionary policies, the Zenroren seemed
to offer little evidence that the major obstacles to Sodomei-Sanbetsu unity hed been
removed.
3. Dissension in the Sanbetsu. Simultaneously with the intensification of
Sanbetau efforts to secure a united front with the Sodomei, there developed a
controversy within the Sanbetsu over the very issue that divided it from the
Sodomei -- the question of Communist control of the union. SCAP prohibition of the
proposed February 1, 1947 general strike, together with the repeatedly expressed
opposition of the occupation authorities to Commnist influence in the trade-umion
movement, gave rise to mumerous expressions of rank-and-file discontent with the
conduct of union leadership in the period preceding the general strike fiasco.
Although the Sodome1 and independent unions had participated in strike preparations,
criticiem was directed largely against the Sanbetsu executives since it was from
this group that the more conspicuoue and militant leadership had come. Most
vociferous in their criticisms were locals of the Tanitsu (Nippon Shimbun Taushin
Hoso Jūgyōin Kumiai -- All-Japen Newsparer and Radio Workers' Union), a Sanbetsu
affiliate with almost 32,000 members.
Dinsension in the Taniteu came to a head at the organization's national
convention at the end of March 1g47. At thie time the Mainichi Shimbun local,
representing almost one-fifth of the Tani eu's memberslt, moved that the
constitution be emended in order to aliov e cn local t aecide for itself whether
it wiahed to be affiliated with the Sanhe eu. The mot on vas dofoated twice, and
the convention instead accepted a proposal, t forwa
th.e Asahi Shimbum local,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
-180-
RESTRICTED
that further consideration of the question be postponed until May, when the national
convention was to reconvene, end that meanwhile the officers of both the Taniteu and
1
the Sanbetau be requested to reexamine their policies.
Dissatisfied with this decision, the Mainichi Shimbun local withdrew from the
national union, charging that the Sanbetau was dominated hy Communists. In the next
two months the Mainichi's example was followed by the unions of six provincial papers,
and the Asahi Shimbun local voted to demand Tanitau secession from the Sanbetau at
2
the May meeting of the convention.
Meanwhile, alarmed by these developments in the Tanitsu, KAWAZOE Takayuki, its
chairman, formally requested the Sanbetsu's Executive Committee to hold a self-
criticiam meeting. His request wes quickly seconded by MATSUMOTO Shinichi, Communist
Sponsorship of this proposal by Communist and Communiat-influenced elements, however,
gave rise to the suspicion that self-criticiem in the Sanbetsu was to be a process
whereby the fears of member unions would be allayed through admissions of guilt and
seeming changes of policy without in any way loosening the Commmist grip on the
national organization.
The accuracy of these suspicions was confirmed in the Sanbetsu meetinge of
May and July. In mid-May the Sanbetau's Executive Committee held its self-criticiem
meeting, at which representatives of the eighteen affiliated unions discussed the
accueations made by many of their members that organization policies were being
dictated by Commmist fractions and that too great an emphasis had been placed upon
the strike weapon. The discussions resulted in the adoption of a policy statement
calling for eliminetion of the widening gap between leaderahip and members,
democratization of union operations, elimination of over-amphasis on strikes,
1.
Asahi Shimbun, March 28, 1947; Jij1 Press release, March 28 and 29, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, March 29 and May 10, 1947.
3.
FBIB, Daily Report, May 7, 1947, p. AAA-2; J1j1 Press reloase, May 10, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
-181-
RESTRICTED
reassertion of the freedom of union members to belong to political parties of their
own choosing, and reelection of officers in order to eliminate the impression that
the Sanbetau was dominated by any particular political party.1 The elections held
at an extraordinary national convention in July, also the scene of self-criticiam,
did little to remove this impression, however, since, of the four important officers
elected, two -- Vice Chairman KAMEDA Togo and Secretary General YOSHIDA Sukeji --
were members of the Kyosanto.2 Shortly after the convention, moreover, it was
announced that the three ranking officers who had resigned in connection with the
self-criticiem movement had been appointed to other positions in the organization.
KIKUNAMI Kataumi, who two months later announced his affiliation with the Kyōsanto,
and DOBASHI Kazuyoshi were to represent the Sanbetsu on the Labor Relations Committee
and similar bodies, and HoSoYA Matauta, at that time a member of the Kyosanto, was
to be employed in the Secretariat.3
4. The Split in the Nippon Nomin Kumiai
a. Major Issues. The second national convention of the Nippon Nomin Kumiai,
February 12-14, 1947, met in an atmosphere of controveray revolving primarily around
political issues. Discussion of such economic issues as land reform and crop
collection on their merite was subordinated to the question of the union's ties with
the Socialists and Commmists, and attention was focused on the activities of HIRAno
Rikizo, member of the Central Executive Committee of the union as well as that of
the Shakaito.
The left-wing group, whose views were vociferously stated in the colums of the
Kyosanto organ Akahata, expressed dissatisfaction with Socialist economic and political
policy and asserted that, under right-wing le dership, the Nippon Nomin Kumiai had
become completoly subservient to the Shakaito. Particularly disturbing to the leftists
1.
Jij1 Press releases, May 12, 14, and 15, 1947; Nippon Keizai Shimbun, May 13, 1947;
Asahi Shimbun, May 15, 1947.
2.
Asahi Shimbun, July 13, 1947.
3.
Jiji Prese release, July 22, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.97)
- 182 -
RESTRICTED
was what they regarded as Socialist betrayal of the farmers in their stand on rice
deliveries and land reform. Despite union condemmation of the government-sponsored
Food Emergenoy Measures Law of August 1946, the Socialists, under pressure from
Hirano and his supporters, had finally voted in its favor. A draft proposal dram
up by Hirano in anticipation of the February convention, moreover, called for a
reversal of the umion's opposition to the Land Reform Law -- a proposal that
ercited considerable loft wing antagonimm. In the political field, the leftists
bitterly condemmed the leading role played by Hirano in negotiations for Socialist
participation in the Toshida cabinet, a move that they regarded as a thoroughgoing
concession to the forces of reaction. Finally, the decision of the Námin Kumiai
national leadership to support the Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Remme1, despite the
exclusion of the Commnists from the Socialist-sponsored united front organization,
The right wing, on the other hand, made no secret of its concern over what it
regarded as increasing Commmmist domination of the union and urged a clear-out
rejection of Commmist participation. Support of govermment land reform measures
was urged on the grounds that these measures were alroady in operation and should be
utilized by the farmers to their om best interests; support of the mergency food
measures was defended as based on Agriculture and Forestry Minister WADA Hiroo's
commitment that arbitrary allotment of quotas would coase and that quotas would
insteed be assigned demooratically by food committees set up in cach city, towm, and
towmahip. With rogard to the coalition issue, Hirano argued that the pro-coalition
faction in the Shakaito, although emphasizing the importance of a cabinet based on
national mity, had no intemtion of participating in a coalition cabinet unless the
formation of such a cabinet was preoeded by the resignation of the Yoshida cabinet
1. Abahata, December 24, 1946, Jamuary 5, 1947, and February 10, 1947; Mainichi
Ehimbun, February 7, 1947; Mimpo, February 14 and 17, 1947; Yomiur1 Shimbun,
Fobruary 13, 1947.
2.
Akahata, Jammary 5, 1947; Jiji Press release, February 13, 1947; Asabi Shimbun,
Fobruary 14, 1947; Mimpo, Fobruary 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.98)
- 183 -
RESTRICTED
b. Communist preparations for the convention. In addition to supporting
the left-wing view in Akahata and elsewhere, the Kyosanto apparently made extensive
preparations for dominating the convention proceedings. On matters of policy, the
Comnnists expressed their hope that the convention would take a stand against
compulsory rice deliveries and the goverment land reform program; would support
the unification of the farmers' front and remove opponents of the united front from
office; and would dmand the overthrow of the Yoshida cabinet and the establishment
of a democratic govermment led by the Shakaito and the Kyosantō. At the same time
Kyosanto organs instructed Commamists who were also members of the Nippon Homin
Kumiai to be sure that the branches under their influence or control had paid their
membership fees and to adopt other measures that would insure maximm Comumist
c. Convention proceedings. It was apparent from the opening of the
convention that the majority of those present were leftist in sympathy, and it soon
became evident, in addition, that Kyosanto erploitation of left-wing Socialist
resentments had been sufficiently adroit to lead to the exercise of considerable
Commmmist control over the proceedings. The sessions, which lasted for three days,
were marked from the outset by extraardinary disorder and disregard of procedural
formalities; they ended with the complete withdrawal from the union of a minority
right-wing faction.
The sessions opened on the morning of Fobruary 12 and were imcediately thrown
into confusion by controversy over the chairmmship, with the right wing supporting
appointment by the Central Executive Comittee and the loft-wing advocating election
from the floor. The appointment of a committee composed of one representative from
each prefecture proved to be the only alternative to contimued violence, and the
problem was finally resolved by the committee's agreement that there be a rotating
1. Akahata, Docember 24 and 27, 1946, January 5, and February 10 and 16, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
-184-
RESTRICTED
chairmanship in which representatives of each faction would participate. The
settlement of this controversy, however, was but a prelude to a second battle, this
time over credentials. This dispute was caused by the fact that the Osaka, Yamanashi,
and Ishikawa branches had already split into two factions, with representatives of both
claiming to be the official delogates. Once again the controversy was referred to a
committee, and the remainder of the session was spent in listening to the speeches of
The second day opened with a pious resolution, passed by unanimous vote, to
forget the differences of the past and concentrate on the maintenance of unity. If
any doubt remained as to the predominance of leftist delegates, it was soon dispelled.
Heated debates were opened by the attack of an Aomori delegate on members of the
union executive who were attempting to bring about a coalition with "the reactionary
Yoshida Cabinet." After some discussion a Hiroshima delegate introduced a motion
putting the union on record against any coalition other than a democratic people's
government with the Shakaitō as its nucleus. This proposal, carried by an over-
whelming majority, was followed by a motion that the Nomin Kumiai define democratic
parties as including the Kyosanto as well as the Shakaito and that criticism of the
Kyosantō be deleted from the union's draft program. This motion, too, received
On the third and final day of the convention, controversy centered around the
procedure to be followed in electing the chairman of the Central Executive Committe
and other leading officers. A proposal that these officere be elected at the
Central Committee meeting the following day was vociferously opposed by a number of
leftists. It was at this point that KURODA Hisao, leading left-wing Socialist in
the union, c pearing to feel the necessity for asserting the independence of left-
1.
Jiji Press reloase, February 12, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, February 13, 1947;
Mimpo, February 14, 1947.
2.
Jiji Press release, February 13, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, February 14, Mimpo,
February 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
-185-
RESTRICTED
wing Socialists from Commnist policy, appealed to the convention to defer the vote
until the Central Committee meeting. The chairman then declared the meeting
ad journed, and Hirano, together with a group of his supporters, left the hall. A
number of delegates, however, refusing to recognize the adjournment, proceeded to
hold an extraordinary session of the remaining representatives. No information is
available as to the number of representatives present at the extraordinary session.
Whatever the size of the group, however, it regarded itself as possessing
sufficient authority to nominate two left-wing Socialists, KURoDA Hisao and
ONISHI Toshio, as chairman and secretary of the Central Executive Committee
respectively and centrist Socialist NOMIzo Masaru as vice chairman.
1
When the Central Committee met on the following day, it was immediately
confronted with the problem of dealing with the nominations put forward at the
extraordinary session. The members of the Central Committee who had participated
in the extraordinary session were, of course, in favor of confirmation of the
nominations, while the rightists insisted that both the extraordinary session and
the nominations were illegal since they had occurred after the ad journment of the
convention. When a vote was taken, the majority supported the nominations and
Hirano, together with delegates from eleven prefectures, withdrew. The nominations
were then confirmed, Hirano was expelled, and an appeal was issued to his followers
to return to the unions.2 These dissidents, however, had already formed a new
organization, the Nichino Sasshin Domei (Japan Farmers' Union Reformation League)
with the announced objective of purging the Communiste from the farmers' union.3
1.
Jiji Press release, February 15, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, February 15 and 16,
1947; Mainichi Shimbun, February 16, 1947; Mimpc, February 21, 1947.
2.
Yomiuri Shimbun, February 16, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, February 16 and 18, 1947;
Jiji Press release, February 18, 1947.
3.
Asahi Shimbun, February 16, 1947; Yomiuri
Snimbun, February 16, 1947;
M1mpo, February 18, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.98)
- 186 -
RESTRICTED
PART FOUR: THE LEFT IN OFFICE
I.
THE ORGANIZATION OF THE KATAYAMA CABIHET
A. The Eloction of April 1947
1. Factors Affecting the Election. A mmber of factors beyond the control
of the left-wing parties affected their conduct of the election campaigns. In
the first place, BCAP's request that a national election be held before the
coming into foroe of the new Japanese Constitution on May 3, 1947 added to the
•lections already soheduled for April -- for prefectural and mumicipal
executives on April 5, for the House of Councillors on April 20, and for
profectural and mumicipal assemblies on April 30 -- a fourth contest for the
House of Representatives finally scheduled for April 25. This multiplicity
of campaigns had obvious disadvantages for all the parties and was reflected
particularly strongly in a paucity of political party candidates in the local
elections. In the second place, the Liberals and Progressives, who had
long been clamoring for a revision of the election laws, succeeded in
attaining their objoctive despite the opposition of the Socialists and
Commmmists. The election law amendments passed by the Diet on March 31
substituted for the 53 election districts and limited plural-entry ballot of
the l946 election 117 election districts with a single-entry ballot. The left-
wing parties, which had, in general, benefited from the plural-entry system,
felt these revisions to be aimed directly at undermining their prospects at the
polls. Their resentment was particularly aroused by the passage of the amendments
so soon before the election was to be held. Whatever disadvantages the left-wing
parties may have suffered as a result of these revisions, however, the extreme
unpopularity of the Yoshida cabinet redounded to their advantage. The Liberals
RESTRICTED

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
-187-
RESTRICTED
and Progressives, and later the Democrats,1 undoubtedly suffered from their
identification with the cabinet and, although the ertent to which the vote for
the Socialists was essentially a negative protest vote against the parties in
power cannot be estimated, there can be no doubt that this was a factor of some
weight.
2. Conduct and Results of the National Elections
2
a. The united front issue. The possibility of a united front agreement
between the Shakaito and the Xyosanto for election purposes was eliminated early
in the campaign. Once again, the Kyōsantō took the initiative. On March 1'it
proposed that the Communists and Socialiste cooperate in the election on the basis
of the following joint objectives: eradication of black markets and control of
inflation; national control and democratic management of financial organs and key
industries; abolition of unjust taxes; the imposition of heavy taxes on wartime
profitoers; a guarantsed monthly minimum wage of 700 yen and an average of 2,000
yen; provision of food, housing, and employment for the unemployed, war victims,
and repatriates; abolition of compulsory rice deliveries; an increase in the rice
price; ostablishment of the farmer's right to cultivate and control his land; greater
freedom for women and youth; increased supply of material and funds for medium-sized
and small mercantile and manufacturing enterprises; and oradication of conservative
influences and formation of a democratic people's government.3
On March 5, the Kyosanto proposal was unconditionally rejected by the Shakaitō,
which stated, first, that each political party should place its own platform before
the voters for their independent judgment; second, that the Socialists and
1. The Demooratic Party was inaugurated on March 31, 1947. It included all the
Progressive Party Diet members, a few seceders from the Liberal Party and the
People's Cooperative Party (the latter formed Maroh 8 by amalgamation of the
People's and the Cooperative Parties), and a fow independents.
2.
For details on this subject see 0IR-4310, An Analys1s of the 1947 Japanese
House of Representatives Election, September 1, 1947, RESTRICTED, and OIR-4334,
The 1947 Japanese House of Councillors Elect1on, January 15, 1948, RESTRICTKD.
3.
Shin Yukan, March 1, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, March 1, 1947; Akahata, March 3, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
-188-
RESTRICTED
Comunists were in fundamental disagreement over the question of strikes for
political purposes; and, third, that Communist claims of great popular support for
Socialist-Commmist cooperation in the national elections was closed.
b. Socialist policy. Because of the position of importance that the
House of Representatives was to enjoy under the new constitution, all the parties
tended to concentrate on elections for the lower house, in which 466 seats were
to be filled. With the aim of winning at least 180 lower house seats, the Shakaitō
Central Executive Committee decided to limit the number of its candidates to 250.
This decision was based on the assumption that, on the basis of the party vote,
in the 1946 elections the number of Socialists elected had been smaller than it
should have been because of an overabundance of candidates. The maximm figure was
apparently later raised to 300 but reduced again to 250 under the stimulus of the
revisions in the election law.2 When the period for filing closed, the Socialists
had nominated 285 candidates, of whom 85 had been elected to the lower house in
the 1946 elections.3 In the election for the House of Councillors, 22 Socialists
were nominated for the 100 seats in the national constituency and 115 for the 150
4
prefectural seats.
Candidates for the Diet were recommended to the Shakaito Central Executive
Committee by the prefectural branches of the party. The Central Executive
Committee, although agreeing in general to accept the candidates recommended by
the local branches, reserved for itself the right to select candidates of national
reputation and assign them to appropriate constituencies. Three principles were
adopted in selecting candidates: (1) men with long erperience in the Socialist
1.
J1j1 Press release, March 6, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, March 7, 1947; Mainich1
Shimbun, March 7, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press release, February 26, 1947, April 1, 1947.
3.
Yomiuri Shimbun, Apr11 25, 1947.
4.
Ibid., March 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
-189-
RESTRICTED
movement were to be preferred; (2) recent party adherents were to be nominated only
if they could be relied upon to observe party regulations; and, (3) as e general
rule, no one was to be allowed to join the party merely for the purpose of becoming
its candidate. Where exceptions seemed justified, the would-be candidate was to
For campaigning purposes an election committee was established at party
headquarters under the chairmanship of HIRAno Rikizo and the country was divided
into eleven districte, in each of which an electoral subcommittee was established
under the supervision of a representative of party headquarters. The subcommittees
were to advise on the preliminary selection of candidates end were to perform
liaison functions between the Central Executive Committee and the prefectures in
the actual conduct of the perty's campaign.? In their campaign propaganda the
Socialists naturally devoted considerable energy to underlining the deficiencies of
the Yoshida cabinet, criticizing especially its failure to improve the distribution
of staple food, to increase the production of coal, to curb inflation, and to honor
its commitments to labor.3
For its own part, the Shakaito continued to advocate its
basic progrem, placing particular stress on immediate proposals for government
control of the coal mines and the fertilizer industry, heavy taxation of wartime
and black-market profiteers, and suspension for one year of interest payments
4
on wartime government bonds.
As a result of the elections the Socialists gained 14 seats in the lower
house as against 132 for the Liberels and 126 for the Democrats. In popular votes
they were somewhat outdistanced by the Liberals with 7,235,242 votes, or 26.5 percent
1.
Shin Hochi, February 25, 1947; Nippon Keizai Shimbun, February 27, 1947.
2.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, February 27, 1947.
3.
Shakai Shimbun, March 31, 1947.
4.
Tbid., March 28, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, Apr1l 10, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.98)
-190-
RESTRICTED
of the total, as against 7,168,868, or 26.2 percent for the Socialists.1 (See Table 2).
In the upper house elections, dominated by independent rather than party candidates,
the Socialists won 46 seats, the Liberals 39, and the Democrats 32, with 112 seats
going to independent candidates. In the national constituency 3,479.814 votes, or
16 peroent of the total, were cast for Socialist candidates, while in the prefectural
constituenoies the Socialists won 4,901,341 votes, or 22 percent of the total. (See
c. Commmmist policy. Placing its main emphasis on elections to the lower
house, the Kyosanto expressed its hopes of winning at least 50 seats in that body.
After the revision of the election laws, the Commmists reduced the number of their
candidates from 170 to 120 in order to avoid having more than one candidate in each
of the ll7 electoral districts except in a few areas where the party felt itself
to be particularly strong. In the election for House of Councillors the Kyosento
ran 28 candidates in the national constituency and 53 candidates in the prefectural
constituencies.3
In contrast to its practice in 1946, when an election comittee was set up in
party headquarters, the Kyosanto conducted 1ts 1947 campaign under the immediate
direction of the Political Bureau. Candidates were recommended by the party's
local committees to the Political Bureau, which then selected the official
nominees and directed olectioneering activities.4 Communist campaign propaganda,
like that of the Socialists, relied heavily on the basic party program.
Partioularly emphasized were high property taxes, war and black-market profit taxes,
and steeply graduated income taxes; state ownership and people's control of
1. 0IR-4310, p. 57.
0IR-4334, p. 49.
3.
Jij1 Press release, Fobruary 28, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, March 13, 1947;
Ji31 Shimpo, Apr1l 4, 1947.
4.
Tokyo Shimbun, March 3, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, Maroh 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
-191-
RESTRICTED
financial institutions; state control of Zaibatsu-owned enterprises and the coal,
steel, iron, fertilizer, electricity, and transportation industries; inorease in
prices paid to farmers; popular control of food distribution; and guarantees of
the farmers' right to their land.1 Members of the Kyosanto were instructed by
the party organ that the policy of conducting an election campaign on the basis
of the popularity of individual candidates was sheer social-democratic opportunism
and that the Communists must seek to gain votes and support from the people by
participating in and leading their daily struggles for ration deliveries, wage
In the lower house elections the Commmists won four seats, as compared
with five in 1946, and 1,002,884 popular votes, or 3.6 percent of the total, as
compared with 3.9 percent in 1946.3 (See Table 2.) Although the Commumist loss
was slight, the fact that it occurred at a time when the Loft as a whole was
registering substantial gains was indicative of the fact that in the political
sphere the Kyosanto hed lost ground in the year between the two elections. In
the House of Councillors election the Communists received 610,498 votes, or 3 percent
of the total, in the national constituency and 825,304, or 4 percent of the total,
in the prefectural constituancies. (See Table 3.) Four Communists were elected
to the upper house, three from the national constituency end one from the prefectural.4
d. Trade-Union Activities. The trade unions took an active and independent
part in the lg47 national elections, supporting the candidacy of a number of trade-
union leaders rumning for the Diet as Socialists, Commmists, or independents. The
form taken by union election activities, however, varied considerably in accord
with the particular political orientation of the union involved.
1.
Akahata, February 28 and April 8, 1947.
2.
Ibid., February 26, March 3, and March 6, 1947.
3.
See-0IR-4310, p. 57.
4.
Ib1d., pp. 49, 53.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
-192-
RESTRICTED
Table 2.
1947 JAPANESE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ELECTION:
VOTES CAST FOR PARTIES BY PREFECTURE
Socialist
Commmumist
Prefecture
Votes
Percent of Total
Votes
Percent of Total
Hokkaido
306,160
29.3
36,356
3.4
Acmori
35,163
9.6
11,014
2.9
Iwate
105,401
25.0
9,033
2.1
Miyag1
133,045
26.3
9,794
1.9
Akita
89,012
22.3
19,055
4.7
Yamagata
97,519
20.4
9,294
1.9
Fukushima
184,535
28.2
14,133
2.1
Ibaraki
130,795
19.6
12,947
1.9
Tochigi
140,482
26.4
10,735
2.0
Guma
176,844
29.2
18,524
3.0
Saitama
197,045
25.8
37,685
4.9
Chiba
81,698
12.2
14,323
2.1
Tokyo
568,523
36.2
134,625
8.6
Kanagava
277,739
38.5
38,615
5.3
Niigata
237,472
29.5
25,718
3.1
Toyama
93,375
23.8
5,712
1.4
Ishikava
74,213
21.8
23,318
6.8
Fukui
76,195
25.6
4,325
1.4
Yamanashi
102,563
33.0
11,133
3.5
Nagano
157,059
19.8
63,979
8.0
Gifu
140,029
25.8
8,920
1.6
Shizuoka
192,447
21.8
28,774
3.2
Aiohi
273,519
22.6
46,595
3.8
N1e
96,711
18.2
22,088
4.1
Shiga
102,827
29.9
6,653
1.9
Kyoto
244,331
40.5
15,545
2.5
Osaka
369,932
31.8
70,020
6.0
Hyogo
319,863
28.9
37,775
3.4
Hara
51,948
15.9
12,992
3.9
Wakayama
98,073
28.8
8,119
2.3
Tottori
72,343
32.3
11,751
5.2
Shimane
126,436
33.9
20,597
5.5
Okayma
145,003
24.8
29,534
5.0
Hiroshima
235,250
30.6
19,420
2.5
Yamaguchi
132,259
26.2
22,575
4.4
Tokushima
55,605
19.7
3,230
1.1
Kageva
114,508
31.7
8,573
2.3
Khime
131,288
24.9
15,677
2.9
Kochi
64,235
19.2
8,721
2.6
Fukuoka
407,094
36.1
41,239
3.6
Saga
27,746
7.6
10,889
2.9
Nagasaki
116,557
24.8
11,239
2.3
Kumemoto
155,885
24.5
7,109
1.1
Oita
74,813
19.3
13,900
3.6
Miyazaki
82,121
22.8
7,233
2.0
Kagoshima
73,207
12.5
3,398
0.5
7,168,868
26.3
1,002,884
3.7
RESTRICTED

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.99)
-193-
RESTRICTED
TabLe 3. THE 1947 JAPANESE HOUSE OF COUNCILLORS ELECTION:
LEFT WING PARTY VOTES IN THE PREFECTURAL CONSTITUENCIES
Socialists
Commumists
Prefecture
Votes
Percent of
Total
Votes
Percent of Total
Hokkaido
175,897
21
28,115
3
Aomori
32,778
11
a
Iwate
a.
a
Miyagi
122,668
30
a
Akita
97,415
30
13,475
4
Yamagata
123,699
30
18,450
5
Fukushima
95,672
18
17,520
3
Tbarak1
64,081
14
24,436
5
Tochigi
106,635
24
a
Gume
93,033
18
16,293
3
Saitama
139,946
22
27,186
4
Chiba
70,839
14
14,382
3
Tokyo
317,281
27
77,934
7
Kanagava
174,914
31
29,824
5
Niigata
135,482
21
22,925
3
Toyama
84,168
25
a
一
Ishikawa
67,849
24
20,458
7
Fukui
74,469
30
12,076
5
Yamanashi
90,366
34
13,254
5
Nagano
186,529
27
41,826
6
Gifu
b
b
Shizuoka
86,132
11
32,329
4
Aichi
147,035
15
a
M1e
70,090
16
18,909
4
Shiga
53,184
17
a
一
Kyoto
118,160
24
23,776
5
Osaka
265,434
28
42,474
5
Hyogo
247,312
27
28,032
3
Nara
49,425
17
a
一
Wakayama
56,424
19
5,551
2
Tottori
83,742
42
a
Shimane
74,031
23
26,888
8
Okayama
105,467
23
45,709
10
Hiroshima
167,910
26
a
Yamaguchi
103,605
25
33,004
8
Tokushima
62,881
30
a
Kagawa
33,274
11
a
一
Ehime
101,155
24
24,008
5
Koch1
29,168
11
a
一
Fukuoka
327,268
35
34,178
3
Saga
83,189
25
a
Nagasaki
118,921
33
a
Kumamoto
145,417
26
a
Oita
a
132,292
34
Miyasaki
90,855
29
a
Kagoshima
27,541
5
a
TOTAL
4,901,341
22
825,304
4
RESTRICTED

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.96)
- 194 -
PESIRICTED
FOOTNOTES TO TABLE 3
a. No candidate competed for seats in this district.
b. There was no contest in Gifu, since only two candidates competed for
the two prefectural seats.
Source: SCAP statistics.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
-195-
RESTRICTED
In mid-February, the Sodomei Central Executive Committee announced that only
Socialist candidates would receive the official support of the federation. For
purposes of negotiating with the Shakaito to obtain the party nomination for union-
sponsored candidates, liaison committees were to be organized on a national and
local basis and Sodomei affiliates were to assist the Shakaito in conducting its
campaign. Sodomei leaders proposed at this time for candidacy were successful in
obtaining Shakaito nomination and by, mid-March 39 Socialists were running with
specific Sodomei endorsement.
1
The Sanbetau, in accord with its so-called politicel neutrality, adopted a
much more independent policy, endorsing Socialist, Communist, and independent
candidates who were regarded as reflecting the will of the democratic front and
representing the interests of the working masses.2 Similarly, individual unions,
such as those of the teachers and the electrical workers, gave their endorsement
to independent candidates drawn largely from the ranks of their own leaderahip.
Another outlet for the expression of trade-union interest in the elections
was the ant1-cabinet committee originally organized by KATo Kanju at the time of
the Yoshida cabinet crisis and composed largely of union representatives. In
mid-March the committee made public ite list of some fifty upper house candidates
receiving its official support -- a disparate group of independents, anti-Communist
leftists, Communist sympathizers, Communists, and Socialista.
On the basis of existing information, it is extremely difficult to determine
either the extent of trade-union election activities or their effect. It is not
known, for example, whether trade-union endorsement of candidates was accompanied
by financial contributione or othor campaign aid, nor are complete lista of union-
supported candidates available. In view of the relatively amall number of independents
1.
Asahi Shimbun, February 19, 1947; Rōdō, February 2, and 28, 1947; Kyodo release,
March 19, 1947.
2.
Mimpo, February 16 and 27, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, March 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.98)
- 196 -
RESTRICTED
elected to the lower house and their generally conservative complexion, it seems
evident that trade-union activities were probably most effective in bringing
organized support to Socialist candidates to whom unionized workers were already
sympathetically inclined. In the upper house elections, where independent trade-
union activities were most conspicuous, the results do not appear to have been
particularly favorable, since of the ll2 independent candidates elected to the
House of Councillore only about a dozen can be definitely identified with the
trade unions. Here again, however, it 1s possible that organized trade-union
participation was responsible for bringing out some part of the vote cast for
Socialist and Communiet candidates.
3. Conduct and Results of the Local Elections. Because of the large number
of offices to be filled -- 10,419 municipal mayoralities and ward headships, 193,881
seats in local assemblies, and 46 prefectural governorships -- and because of
the greater attention naturally devoted to the nationel elections in the press,
detailed and accurate information with regard to the conduct and results of the
local elections is difficult to obtain.1 Statistical compilations of the olection
results, moreover, are extremely misleading as an indication of the size of the
vote cast by members or supporters of any particular political party. Since all
the parties suffered from a shortage of candidates, they tended to give their s
support to independents whose political views seemed sympathetic or who appoared
likely to bo successful. The Japanese ballot, however, provides only for the
writing in of the candidate's name without party designation; thus, only those
votes were counted as Socialist, for example, that were cast for actual Shakaitō
1. The most comprehensive available statement of local election results is
contained in pp. 70-73 of The Japanese Elections, April 1947, a report
published by Government Section, SCAP, on June 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
-197-
RESTRICTED
members and the number of votes brought to any given independent candidate by
Shakaito endorsement is impossible to determine.
Of all the local elections, the gubernatorial elections, because of the
small number of offices to be filled and their relative importance, best lend
themselves to analysis. Much of what is said with rogard to party policy in this
campaign, however, is also true in general of the other local elections.
The policies of the left-wing parties in the gubernatorial elections, like
those of the conservative parties, were inevitably affected by the necessity of
running candidates in four series of elections taking place in rapid succession.
From the outaet, the Commumists decided to avoid as far as possible the nomination
of Kyosantō candidates, proposing instead to support any candidate, whatever his
They pointed out, however,
that if the local Socialist Executive Committees -- whose candidates, in general,
the Communists might be expected to support -- refused to give the nomination to
the candidate supported by the masses, the Communiste might find it necessary to
come forward with their own candidates.2 Subsequent to the government's decision
to call for a lower house election, moreover, the Commmists made it clear that
they attached primary importance to the elections for the House of Representatives
and the local assemblies and only secondary importance to the elections for local
executives.3 As a result of this policy, only nine gubernatorial candidates
actually ran on the Communist ticket.
The Shakaitō initially attached considerable importance to the gubernatorial
Although many more candidates ultimately ran on the Socialist ticket than on those
of any other party, the realities of the situation led the Socialists to reduce their
1.
Akahata, September 14, 1946; Shizuoka Shimbun, November 3, 1946.
2.
Akahata, November 6, 1946.
3.
Tb1d., February 26, 1947; Mimpo, February 27, 1947.
4.
Jij1 Shimpo, November 19, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.98)
- 198 -
RESTRICTED
own candidates to 34 instead of runming the full 46 originally planmed.
Like the Communists, the Socialists had stated their willingness to support
like the conservative parties, they were attracted by the prospecte of success
offered by the incumbent governors who were running in 39 of the 46 prefectures.
In Hiroshima, for example, after the Liberals failed to induce the incumbent to
join their party as a prerequisite to party support, the Socialists made a similar
attempt and were similarly unsuccessful.2 Elsewhere, however, the Socialists were
less insistent that the incumbent join the party if he wished to receive party
support, and in three cases incumbents running as independents and supported by
one or both of the conservative parties also received Socialist backing.
Cooperation with the conservative parties, on the whole, appears to have
played only a minor role in Socialist eloction policy and is known to have
occurred in only six prefectures. Much more important, of course, was the question
of Socialist-Communist cooperation. On this question the policy of the local
branches, with whom the initial responsibility for nominations lay, differed
markedly in some cases from that of the national headquarters.
Despito the firmess of Shakaito refusals to enter into a united front for
national olection purposes, joint Socialist-Communist support of candidates was one
of the most conspicuous features of the gubernatorial campaign. of the 35
gubernatorial candidates who ran on the Socialist ticket, 21 were supported by the
Communists as well, and 6 do not appear to have been actively opposed by a Communiet
or Communist-supported candidate. Of the three independents who received their
major party support from the Socialists, morsover, two were definitely supported by
the Communisa and the third may have been.
1.
Mimpo, October 22, 1946.
2.
Yukan Hiroshima, February 21, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
-199-
RESTRICTED
It is not unlikely, of course, that in many prefectures the local branches of
the Shakaito neither sought Communist support nor wolcomed it. In a mumber of
prefectures, contact between the two parties appears to have been at a minimm,
with ths Kyosanto supporting 1ts own candidate and only later withdrawing him in
favor of the Socialist nominee. In other prefectures, however, there is evidence
that united front election organizations, in which both parties participated, played
active and influential roles. In Akita, for example, the Socialists originally
proposed to nominate one of their local leaders. The Kyosanto, the Nippon Nōmin
Kumiai, and a number of other unions in the prefecture supported an unaffiliated
leftist, SUZUKI Kiyoshi. After a meeting of a united front Election Strife
Committee, the Socialists agroed to admit Suzuki to the party and to nominate him
for governor.1 In Kyoto, long a center of united front activities, the Socialists
initially seemed disposed to support a Communist candidate. Ultimately, however,
the Socialists appear to have supported an independent candidate who had
recently seceded from the Communist Party.2 In only 1l prefectures did the
Communists support candidates in opposition to those supported by the Socialists.
Of these, 7 were candidates running on the Communist ticket; 4 were independents
The gubernatorial electione placed in office 4 Socialists, 4 Liberals, 4
Democrats, 4 minor party candidates, and 30 independents. Of the 4 successful
Socialists, 3 had also been supported by the Kyosanto. In addition, 4 of the
independents supported by the Shakaitō, as well as by other parties, were
successful. Popular vote tabulations for all local executives, including those
of the municipalities and wards, gave Shakaitō-nominated candidates (as distinct
from Shakaito-supported independents) 6,424,100 votes, or 24 percent of the total.
1.
Akitasakigake Shimbun, February 20, 1947; Yuken Miyako, March 4, 1947; Asah1
Shimbun, March 14 and 15, 1947. Suzuki later soceded from the Shakaitō and 1n
Apr11 1948 joined the Kyōsantō.
2.
Yukan Kyoto, March 9, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, March 28, 1947.
3.
No information is available regarding Socialist activities in two prefectures
in which Communists supported their own candidates.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
- 200 -
RESTRICTED
The Liberals followed with 2,127,758 votes, or 7.9 percent of the total, but the
independents, a large majority of whom were conservatively inclined, led the
Results in the other local elections paralleled those of the gubernatorial
race, with umaffiliated candidates obtaining the lion's share of popular votes
and offices. In the election for municipal and ard executives the Socialists,
with 264 successful candidates, trailed the Liberals with 379 and the Democrats
with 339. In this election the Communists succeeded in capturing 1l positions.
In the local assembly elections the independents once again led, with 31 percent
of the popular vote and 173,999 seats, while the Socialists, with 17.5 percent
of the popular vote, or slightly less than either the Liberals or the Democrats,
obtained 5,924 seats, or almost 600 more than those occupied by affiliates of the
two conservative parties. The Communists obtained 556,473 popular votes, or 1.8
B. The Coalition Negotiations of May 1947
1.
Factors Affecting the Negotiations. The distribution of seats in the post-
election lower house -- 143 for the Socialists, 133 for the Liberals, and 126 for
the Democrats -- made a coalition cabinet inevitable. In principle, each of the
three major parties supported a four-party coalition that would include the 31
representatives of the People's Cooperatives as well as themselves. In actual
fact, however, the Liberals really wished a Liberal-Democratic coalition under
Liberal domination, while the Democrats, although theoreticelly in the
advantageous position of holding the balance of power between the Liberals and the
Socialista, were unable to utilize their position effectively because of the
controversy ithin the party between the Ashida and Shidehara factions. The
Kyodo release, April 9, 1947.
2. Government Section, SCAP, The Japanese Elections, April 1947, p. 72.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
- 201 -
RESTRICTED
Ashida faction from the outset advocated a four-party coalition cabinet headed by the
Socialists and sought to influence the Liberale along these lines, whereas the
Shidehara faction was closer to the Liberal view that the conservatives should
dominate the coalition to the exclusion of the Socialists if necessary. Ashida's
election to the Democratic presidency, moreover, gave the victory to his faction
by so slim a margin that, despite his own willingness to participate in a cabinet
with the Socialists and without the Liberals, he was forced to continue to seek
Liberal participation in order to avoid a rupture in his own party.
The Socialiste, in contrast to the Democrats and to their own previous
behavior, acted with remarkable unity, adopting a fairly consistent position
throughout the negotiations, shaken neither by Liberal vituperativeness nor by
Democratic disunity. Although essuming a position somewhat opposed to thet of
the right wing, the left-wing Socialists neither argued vociferously within the
party councils nor sought to gain mass support for their arguments, as they had
in the past, through the organization of a trade-union opposition to right-wing
policy.
It is probable that, to some extent, the change in Socialist methods of
negotiation was a concession to the Left and was one factor behind the willingness
of the left wing to subordinate itself. In previous coalition negotiations the
Socialist Central Executive Committee had tended to operate in considerable
secrecy without consulting any larger party group. The negotiations that preceded
the formetion of the Katayama cabinet, however, were opened by the Socialists, in
accordance with a pre-election agreement, only after the perty's position had been
fully discussed by the Central Committee. In these discussions, and at meetings
of the Shakaito's Central Executive Committee and of Socialist Diet members, the
general lines of the right-wing and the left-wing positions became epparent.
Both factions were egreed that, under the circumetances, a coalition government
was inevitable. The Right argued that a national unity cabinet including the three
RESTRICTED

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
- 202 -
RESTRICTED
major parties and the People's Cooperatives would provide the most satisfactory
basis for labor-capital conciliation -- a prerequisite to economic rehabilitation --,
for peace conference preparations, and for the recovery of the entire nation rather
than that of any individual class or group. This being the case, they declared,
they would not insist on the allocation of the premiership to the Shakaitō if
there were any danger that such insistence would prevent four-party cooperation.
The Left, on the other hand, argued both for Socialist leadership of the
cabinet and for the exclusion of the Liberals. The leftists agreed that achievement
of economic recovery would be the most pressing duty of the future cabinet, but they
declared that a mere mixture of divergent policies would retard rather than promote
such recovery. They denied that a national unity cabinet, if not supported by
domestic interests, was required by the international situation. In this field,
they argued, unity could be obtained by organizing in the Diet a committee for peace
conference preparatiors composed of members of each of the parties represented in
1
the two houses.
On May 7, the Shakaito Central Comittee voted in support of a national unity
cabinet and agreed to leave the final decision in the hands of the Central Executive
Comittee. A motion that the Central Committee set forth concrete torms for
participation in a coalition cabinet and indicate the maximm concessions that the
party was willing to make was withdrawn by its sponsor, a minor member of the left-
wing faction, when the objection was raised that such a resolution would unduly tie
2
the hands of the Central Executive Committee.
On the following day Premier Yoshida called upon KATAYAMA Tetsu to take the
initiative in forsing a new cabinet. In the ensuing negotiations, the Socialists
appeared to be willing to make major concessions to the Liberale and Demoorats in
1. Mainichi Shimbum, Apr11 28 and 29, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, May 4, 1947.
2. Jiji Press release, May 8, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, May 8, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
- 203 -
RESTRICTED
order to insure the formation of a four-party coalition. That left-wing hopes were
ultimately answered by a cabinet in which Katayama was premier and in which the
Liberals played no part was the result of Liberal intransigence rather than of
Socialist unwillingness to compromise. The willingness of the Socialists to
compromise was nowhere more clearly evident that in the adoption of the four-party
policy agreement.
2. The Four-Party Policy Agreement. On May 12, at a four-party meeting, the
Socialists submitted a six-point program as the basis for the formation of a cabinet
dedicated to overcoming the economic crisis. Although the program called in general
terms for a state-controlled economy, 1ts vagueness and moderation indicated a
willingness on the part of the Socialists to sacrifice much of their own economic
policy to the exigoncies of four-party cooperation. The six-point program included
proposals for democratic state control of key industries; enlargement and strengthening
of the Economic Stabilization Board; cooperation between industry and labor;
establishment of a sound financial policy, with the banks brought under state control
to the extent necessary to curb inflation; strict control of wages and prices and the
enforcement of a rigid rationing system; and government enforcement of crop delivery
On the following day,
at a meeting of the Shakaito Central Executive Committee, the agricultural aspeots
of the six-point policy statement were modified to include a demand that the government
ingure the distribution of fertilizer and other necessities to the agrarian communities.
This alteration, insistod upon by the Nippon Nomin Kumiai, brought the six-point program
more closely into agreemsnt with the previous Shakaito policy of opposing compulsory
2
rice collection in the absence of measures for the aid of the farmers.
The Liberal Party made clear its firm adherence to its financial policies as
previously pursued by ISHIBASHI Tanzan and declared that any compromises on these
1. FBIB, Da1ly Report, May 13, 1947, P. AAA.-4.
2. J1j1 Press releaso, May 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
- 204-
RESTRICTED
policies must be made by the Socialists. Specifically, the Liberals objeoted to the
suspension of interest payments on national bonds, state control of key industries,
and any attempt to register the yen as a preliminary step to the imposition of a
higher tax rate on the so-called new yen group. The initial differences betwoon
Liberal and Socialist economic policies that constituted the stumbling block to
Yoshida's coalition attempt in early l947 thus remained, and the Liberals made
clear their refusal to participate in any agreement with the Socialists that would
vitiate the Liberal Party's financial policies.
On May 14, faced with the obvious unwillingness of the Liberals to accept the
six-point program, the Democrats brought forward an eight-point program as a basis
for compromise. This eight-point program differed from the Socialist plan in
calling for state control of key industries only "in case of necessity"; in omitting
any reference to state control of the banks; and in stating that no steps should be
As a result of Democratic efforts, four-party agreement was obtained on May 16
to a ten-point policy statement that, in general, reflected the ideas set forth in
the Democrats' eight-point program and, therefore, indicated that the major
concessions had been made by the Shakaito.?
3. The Left-Wing Manifesto of May 15. Another possible inducement to Liberal
participation in the cabinet was provided by the so-called Left-Wing Manifesto of
May 15. On this day KATo Kanju and SUZUKI Mosaburo issued a statement in which
they asserted that the time had come to draw a firm line between Kyosanto activities
and those of the Shakaito. Declaring that the principles of social democracy and
those of Communiam are absolutely irreconcilable, the two leftist leaders attacked
the Kyosanto for its advocacy of revolution by violence and of the dictatorship of
1. Kyodo release, May 15, 1947.
2. Jiji Press release, May 16, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
-205-
RESTRICTED
the proletariat, for obstructing Japanese recovery by its daily struggle tactios,
and for opposing the importation of foreign capital. In a rather unoonvincing
explanation of earlier left-wing advocacy of the united front, Kato and Suzuki
declared that in 1946 they had supported the united front as a device to forestall
the revival of reactionary dominance and as a method by which the Shakaitō might
wrest control of the trade unione from the Kyosanto. The recent general elections,
however, they said, had demonstrated that the Shakaitō had grown stronger while the
Kyosanto grew weaker, that the close ties between the Liberals and the Democrats
had been broken, and that, therefore, the Shakaitō, which the writers claimed was
now the dominating infiuence in 70 percent of the trade unions, was in a position
Whatever the intentions of the Left-wing Manifesto, the reactions it produced
were generally unfavorable. Only the Socialist centrists appeared willing to
accept the statement as genuine and sincere and to welcome it as improving the
prospects for Shakaito unity. Liberals and such right-wing Socialists as HIRAnO
Rikizo were suspicious of the sincerity of the statement and regarded it as
primarily an attempt to obtain cabinet seats for the left-wing faction. The
reaction of many leftists was equally unfriendly, with MATSUMOTO Jiichiro
reaffirming the need for a joint Socialist-Communist front while ARAHATA Katsuzo
indignantly denied that the implication of left-wing cooperation with the
4. Organization of the Three-Party Cabinet. The adherence of the Liberals
to the four-party agreement on May 16, it subsequently εppeared, was of little
practical effect in altering their opposition to participation in a four-party
cabinet dominated by Socialists and Ashida Democrats. On May 19 Yoshida informed
the Socialists that, although the Iiberals would support Kateyama in the lower house
1.
Jiji Press release, May 15, 1947; Asah1 Shimbun, May 27, 1947; Yomiur1 Shimbun,
May 30, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press release, May 16, 1947; Yomiur1 Shimbun, May 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.98)
-206-
RESTRICTED
vote for the premier, they would not join the Socialiste in a coalition unless
the Shakaito expelled 1ts left-wing members. If for no other reason than that
the left-wing faction occupied a substantial proportion of Socialist seate in the
Diet, the Liberal demand was obviously one that the Shakaitō could not accept,
although the Shakaito was ready to commit 1tself to excluding leftists from the
cabinet.
On May 21, a meeting of Iiberal Diet members unanimously supported
Yoshida's determination to remain outside the cabinet. On the same night, the
election by Socialist-Democratic agreement of Socialist MATSUOKA Komakichi as
speaker of the House of Representatives and Democrat TANAKA Manitsu as vice speaker
further widened the rift between the Liberals, who had claimed the speakership
2
for themselves, and the other two major parties.
Nevertheless, on May 23, the Liberals Joined the Socialiste and the Democrats
in voting for Katayama as premier in the lower house election, apparently on the
assumption that the Democratic stipulation that Katayema's cabinet must include
Liberals if the Democrats were to participate, combined with the strengthening
of Shidehara's position as a result of the possibility that Ashida might be
purged, would make it impossible for Katayama to form a cabinet. The Liberals
remained aloof from further negotiations, devoting their attention for the
Moanwhile three-party talks continued, and on May 29, at Democratic
insistence, the Socialiste committed the future cabinet to vigorous opposition
to the principles both of the extreme right and the extreme left, to prevention of
leakage of state secrets, and to refraining from any speech or action that might
This statement, intended by the Democrats to restrict the
1. J1ji Press release, May 20, 1947
2.
Ibid., May 21, 1947; Kyodo rolease, May 22, 1947.
3.
Kyodo release, May 23 and 27, 1947.
4。
Ib1d., May 29, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.98)
- 207 -
RESTRICTED
activities of the left-wing, failed to move the Liberals, and on May 31 the
Katayama cabinet was formed on the basis of a coalition of the Socialist,
Democratic, and People's Cooperative Parties committed to respect the principles
of the four-party agreement despite Liberal non-participation.
The cabinet as finally organized contained seven Socialists, an equal number
of Democrats, two People's Cooperatives, and one indopendent. In accordance
with previous agreements, the seven Socialist members represented the right and
center factions only. Despite heated Nippon Nomin Kumiai opposition, HIRANO
Rikizo was named Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. The other Socialiets
seats went to MORITO Tatsuo as Minister of Education, MIZUTANI Chosaburo as
Minister of Commerce and Industry; SUZUKI Yoshio as Minister of Justice, NISHIO
Suehiro as Minister without Portfolio and concurrently Chief Cabinet Secretary,
and YONEkUBo Mitausuke, who was to serve as Minister without Portfolio until
such time as the projected Labor Ministry might be established. The appointment
of Independent WADA Hiroo as Minister without Portfolio and cancurrently head
of the Economic Stabilization Board further strengthened the Socialist position,
since Wada, although at one time a member of the Yoshida cabinet, was closer
in his economic views to the Socialists than to the conservative parties.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.98)
- 208 -
RESTRICTED
II. EIGHT MONTHS OF THE KATAYAMA CABINET
A. Introduction
1. Problems of Policy. The principal problems of the Katayama cabinet, as
of its predecessors, were problems of economic rather than political policy. This
was the case not only because of the pressing nature of the economic problems
confronting postwar Japan but also as a result of differences in occupation
policy in the political and economic fields. In the political field primary
emphasis was on the accomplishment of a program of reform the general direction
of which had been established in Allied policy decision and the detailed
development of which hed to a very large extent been the responsibility of SCAP's
staff. In such major fields as constitutional reform, the reorganization of
national and local government, and the reform of the civil service, therefore,
successive cabinets were less bound by the policies of their component parties
than they were by the reform program sponsored by SCAP. Although a similar
situation obtained in the field of economic reform, the policy of SCAP with
regard to economic stabilization was to a much greater extent one of placing
responsibility on the Japanese Government for the development of policy and ita
implementation. It was in the latter area, therefore, that the most heated
controversies developed within the government and between the government parties
and the opposition.
When the Katayama cabinet took office the economic crisis was acute.
Successive cabinets, whatever their official programs, had signally failed to
find effective remedies for an acute food shortage, rampant black markets,
inflation, labor unrest produced by the wide disparity between ever rising
prices and lagging wages, and slow progress in industrial rehabilitation. So
desparate had the situation become and so marked were the inadequaciea of
government policy that on March 22, 1947 SCAP addrossed a strong letter of
RESTRICTED

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.99)
- 209 -
RESTRICTED
reproof to Premier Yoshida urging the enforcement of strong eoonomic controls
and pointing out that SCAP was under no obligation to bolster the Japanese
economy by importing food.
The Socialists, of course, had been among the most vocal critics of the
economic failures of previous cabinets. Although their own proposals for
economic policy were far-reaching, the Socialists could not expect that, given
the nature of the coalition and the policies by which it was bound, the
opportunity would arise under the Katayama cabinet to adopt wholesale
socialization or other drastic changes in the economic structure. The two
statements on economic policy issued by the new cabinet -- the eight-point program
of June 1l and the White Paper of July 6 -- although somewhat stronger and more
comprehensive in their commitments regarding enforcement of controls than the
statements of previous cabinets, contained no really new elements. Even within
the limited framework of policy projected, however, differences between and
within the two major coalition parties were of increasing significance in delaying
the adoption of policies on specific issues and in undermining the ability of the
cabinet to carry out policy effectively once adopted.
2. Internal Cabinet Difficulties. Throughout the negotiations leading to the
organization of the Katayama cabinet, the members of the Socialist left wing,
previously outspoken in their objections to coalition with conservative elements,
were unusually quiet. If the organization of the cabinet brought them no other
benefits, it did strengthen their position within the party. In the appointment of
new officers to positione vacated by cabinet members and parliamentary vice
ministers, the leftists, who had previously held two out of thirteen party committee
chairmanships, were -- with the support of the centriste -- successful in gaining
three additional chairmanships, among them that of the Political Affairs Committee.
In this key policy-drafting committee, moreover, subcommittee chairmanehips and
RESTRJD

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.99)
- 210-
RESTRICTED
other positions were practically monopolized by leftists. The division of spoils
that allocated cabinet posts to rightists and centrists and party posts to leftists,
however, by no means established internal party unity. Rather, the existence of
many frictions within the party was reflected in the Diet by the organization of
factional clubs among the Socialist members of the Diet. Not only did Socialist
Diet members affiliated with the two farmers' organizations, the Nippon Nomin Kumiai
and right-wing Socialists organized other mutually hostile societies. On the left
the most important of these was the May Society, led by KATO Kanju and SUZUKI
Mosaburo. Right-wing societies included the Nineteen Club and the Anonymous Society,
which, in general, owed allegiance to Hirano. Desire to prevent these rival
factions from splitting the perty inspired centrist Socialists to organize still
another group, the Thursday Society, devoted to the maintenance of perty unity and
including among its members Acting Secretary General ASANUMA Inejiro and Cabinet
Ministers MIZUTANI Chosaburo, SUZUKI Yoshio, and YONEKUBO Mitausuke. Also devoted
to maintaining party unity was a later group of some thirty right-wing Socialists,
the Current Problems Council, that sought to prevent Hirano's final secession from
With few exceptions,
most Socialist Diet members belonged to at least one of these factions. Many
belonged to more than one, with overlapping memberships representing slight shades
of factional differences or, like the mingling of members of left-wing and centrist
factions in the Socialiet Cultural Society, some common interest or personal tie.
Equally disruptive of cabinet stability were the factions that existed among
the Democrats. The factionalism that had been evident during the coalition
1.
Organized by the N1chino Sasshin Dōme1 in May 1947. See p. 216.
2.
Shakai Shimbun, May 27, 1947; Tokyo Tomin, May 29, 1947; Mainich1 Shimbun,
December 29 and 31, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.99)
- 211 -
RESTRICTED
negotiations -- particularly the merked split between followers of Ashida and those
of Shidehara -- became increasingly marked as the Democrats assumed the responsibilities
of office in partnership with a party with the basic economic program of which they
were fundamentally out of sympathy.
B.
The Coal Mine Control Law and Socialist-Democratic Controversy
1. The Issues at Steke. Plans for legislation placing the coal mines under
state control, in line with Socialist campaign promises, were first presented to
the cabinet early in June. Agreement of the three coalition parties on the general
principles to underlie such legislation was not attained until August ll, and it was
not until September 18 that the cabinet gave its final apprqval to a draft bill.
Continuing to follow a tortuous course, the bill remained in the lower house Mining
and Industry Committee from September 25, the date of its submission, until
November 26, when it was forced to the floor of the lower house.
The time consumed in negotiations over the bill, rather than reflecting a
desire to deal exhaustively with a complicated and techmical subject, was the outcome
of disagreements between the Socialists and the Democrats on the principles of state
control and, even more fundamentally, of disagreements among the Democrats themselves.
The Socialists, under no illusions regerding the palatability of their philosophy to
the Democrats, were prepared from the outset to accept a fairly limited plan for
state control, reserving the fulfillment of their ultimate hopes for nationalization
of the industry to some later date when the Shakaitō might be able to form a single-
party cabinet. Socialist plans at this time called for the establishment in principle,
of control over the entire industry, with Zaibatau-owned enterprises and those with
poor production records singied out for application of more stringent controls. As
envisaged by the Socialists, these controls were to be applied primarily to the
individual mines rather than to the central offices of the mining enterprises; control
measures were to be devised by a hierarchy of councils composed of representatives
of management, labor, technical experts, and coal consumers; and special controllers
appointed to each mine were to share with management responsibility for carrying
RESTRICTED

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.99)
- 212 -
RESTRICTED
out control measures. Left-wing Socialists, in addition, favored distribution to
the workers of profits above a certain maximm either through the establishment
of a profit-sharing scheme or a welfare fund.1
To the Socialists the passage of legislation for state control over the coal
mines became, in the course of the acrimonious negotiations over its content, an
end in itself -- a symbol of achievement to which the Socialists could point as
their unique contribution to the policies of the coalition. In its pursuit of
this end, the Shakaito showed itself almost endlessly willing to alter the actual
provisions of the bill to comply with Democratic demands. Even on this basis,
however, achievement of Socialist-Democratic agreement on the coal bill was
hampered by the split in the Democratic Party and the consequent inability of
Democratic leadership to bind the party membership to its own course of action.
The leadership of the Democratic Party was committed in principle to
accepting a scheme for state control of the coal mines. Although reconciled to
the neceesity of this concession to the Socialists if the coalition was to be
preserved, Democratic leaders, impelled by their own convictions as well as by the
pressure of the Shidehara faction, were anxious to reduce to a minimm any socialistic
conmotations that the bill might contain. In general the Democrats pressed for
retaining as much as possible of the independence and authority of the mine owmers.
To this end, the Democrats urged that any bill passed be defined as temporary and
as emergency in character; that the control features of the legislation be confined
to newly opened mines and to mines with an annual productive capacity of at least
100,000 tons; that controls be operated through the central offices of the mining
companies rather than on a mine-by-mine basis; and that the authority over mine
operations of either government officials or of joint councils in which workers
2
participated be minimal.
1. Kyodo releases, June 9 and 10, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, June 10 and July 16, 1947;
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, June 15, 1947; Jij1 Press releases, July 8, 11, and 18,1947.
2.
Asahi Shimbun, July 1, 1947; Jij1 Press release, July 23, 1947; FBIB, Daily Report,
Ju1y 24, 1947, p. AAA-6, and August 7, 1947, p. AAA-2.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.99)
-213-
RESTRICTED
2. Inter-party Negotiations. Early in Jume, Commerce and Industry Minister
MIZUrANI Chosaburo presented a draft coal bill to the cabinet embodying Socialist
ideas on a moderate form of state control. Unqualified opposition to the whole plan
was soon announced by the Liberals; the Democrats opposed certain features of the
proposal as bureaucratic, likely to disrupt cooperation between capital and labor,
and apt to decrease rather than increase coal production; and left-wing Socialists,
also finding the bill bureaucratic, demanded a greater voice for the workers in
1
the administration of controls.
Then began the long process of inter-party negotiations involving both the
leadership of the three coalition parties and the special coal comittees set up
in each of the parties.2 On August 10 the presidents of the three parties reached
an agreement on the principles to be embodied in the bill, and on the next day
this agreement was ratified by the cabinet. The next four weeks were spent in
drafting legislation that would embody these principles, and cn September 5 a
draft bill was approved by the cabinet. The bill as drafted made major concessions
to Democratic demands for a clearly temporary measure, for a maximm of owmer
freedom, and for the exercise of controls through the central offices of the
mining companies rather than wholly on the basis of individual mines. The various
committees, national and regional, representing owmers, consumers, and workers
and the management-worker production councils to be established in individual mines
designated for special control measures were relegated to an advisory position instead
of being given the policy-making and administering functions orginally envisaged by
the Socialists. The controllors, charged with carrying out goverment-approved
production plans in designated mines, were to be appointed by the owmers, in each
case after consultation with the production council of the mine involved and with
1. Kyodo press releases, Jume 9 and 10, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, Jume 10, July 1, and
July 16, 1947; FBIB, Da1ly Report, Jume 29, P. AAA-9, July 9, P. AAA-2, and
July 24, p. AAA-6; House of Representatives, lst Session, National Diet,
Official Gazette Extra, No. 9, July 3, 1947, pp. 3, 4.
2.
The Shakaito committee was established under the chairmanahip of KATo Kanju.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.99)
-214-
RESTRICTED
1
the approval of the Minister of Comerce and Industry.
Despite these concessions and despite the fact that they had been accepted
by the Democratic members of the cabinet, the draft bill aroused a storm of protest
in the Democratic Party. Once again the Democratic leaders sought concessions from
the Socialiste, and the bill was amended by the cabinet to increase the authority
of coal mine owmers with regard to production plans for designated mines. Meanwhile
the Socialists, although far from satisfied with the bill and under pressure from
trade-union opponents of the concessions made to the Democrats, agreed to concentrate
their efforts on its passage without further alterations -- a sufficiently difficult
task in view of the Democrats announced intention of introducing further amendments
in the Diet and the obvious efforts of the Shidehara faction to prevent the passage
3. The Coal Bill in the Diet. Under these inauspicious circumstances, the
Coal Bill was introduced in the lower house on September 25 and immediately
referred to the Mining and Industry Committee. It soon became evident that the
eight Liberal  bers and six dissident Democratic members of the thirty-member
committee were determined to prolong the committee sessions indefinitely. In face
of the deadlock created by the fact that these opponents of the Coal Bill, in
combination with a number of minor party representatives who shared their views,
controlled a majority in the committee, actual discussion of the bill's future
reverted to the leadership of the three parties. New Democratic amendment
proposals completely subordinating the controllers to the mine owners, deleting
the requirement that the owner's choice for controller be approved by the Minister
1.
Jij1 Prese releases, August 10, 11, and 13, 1947; Kyodo releases, August 11 and
Septembor 4 and 6, 1947.
2.
Yomiur1 Shimbun, September 13 and 17, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, September 15, 1947;
Kyodo releases, September 16, 17, 18, and 20, 1947; Jij1 Press releases,
September 17 and 19, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.99)
-215-
RESTRICTED
of Commerce and Industry, and further reducing the already insignificant powers of
1
the production councils were reluctantly accepted by the Socialists.
The
Democratic leaders, however, faced much greater difficulty with their party than
had the Socialists. On November 12, a Democratic Party caucus voted approval of
the bill with its amendments. Because 28 members of the lower house withdrew
before the vote while 20 other Representatives and all the Demooratic Councillors
abstained, the vote of approval was only 66 to 2. Opponents of the bill therefore
refused to accept the vote as binding, and the impasse in the Mining and Industry
Committee continued.
2
Government leaders then turned their efforte to forcing the bill to the floor
of the lower house. A period of great confusion ensued, with various motions
under consideration demanding that the Committee terminate its diecussions and
expressing confidence or lack of confidence in chairman of the Mining and Industry
Committee ITO Ushiro and Lower House Speaker MATSUOKA Komakichi. Finally, on
November 25, the Committee voted unfavorably on the bill. The next day it was
passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 233 to 155, with 27 Democrats
voting against the bill and others absent.3 Two weeks later the House of
The Socialists, however, had gained an empty victory, since the provisions of
the law not only were far removed from their original proposals but also were in
many cases so vague and left so much to the discretion of the Minister of Commerce
and Industry that a change in the cabinet could be expected to have serious effects
on the acope and vigor of the law's enforcement. Moreover, the unacceptability of
1. J1j1 Press releeses, November 11, 12, and 13, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, November 14,
1947; House of Representatives, lst Sessicn, National Diet, Official Gazette Extra,
No. 66, November 26, 1947, pp. 2-4.
2.
FBIB, Daily Report, November 14, 1947, p. AAA-3; J1j1 Press release, November 15,
1947; Kycdo releas0, November 14, 1947.
3.
J1ji Press releases, November 22, 24, and 25, 1947; Kyodo releases, November 24
and 26, 19:7.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.98)
- 216 -
RESTRICTED
the law to some Democrats resulted in the first reduction of the Katayama cabinet's
lower house majority. As a result of expulsions for violation of party discipline
and resignations, twenty-eight members of the Diet, including Shidehara, were lost
to the Democratic Party. Democratic defections were soon to be followed by
Socialist losses as the dismissal of HIRANo Rikizo from the cabinet brought to a
head a long-standing controverey in the Shakaitō.
C. The Hirano Controversy and the Split in the Shakaito
1. Introduction. The appointment of HIRANo Rikizo to the post of Minister of
Agriculture and Forestry was vigorously if unsuccessfully opposed by the Nippon
Nomin Kumiai. Despite the efforts of centriet Socialists to breach the split in
the farmers' movement by bringing together the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai and the rival
Hirano-led Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai, the hostility of the two organizations and of
their respective Diet factione continued to threaten the unity of the Shakaito.
Hirano's antagonism to the left wing, moreover, soon led to the disruption of his
former alliance with Chief Cabinet Secretary NISHIo Suehiro, who, unlike Hirano,
was determined to retain the left wing in the party and sought to conciliate
leftist elements by supporting an increase in their influence in the Shakaitō in
compensation for their erclusion from the cabinet. At the same time Hirano was
rapidly becoming a center of controversy in the cabinet itself, since his desire
to increase significantly the prices paid to farmers for their crops was
diametrically opposed to the budgetary policies of Democratic Finance Miniater
KuRUSU Takeo and to the wage-price stabilization policies of Director of the
Economic Stabilization Board WADA Hiroo.
2.
The Farmers' Union Issue. Late in May, at a national conference, Hirano's
Nichino Sesshin Domei served notice of its intention of organizing a new farmers'
union and, for this purpose, set up a preparatory committee to form the Zenkoku
Nāmin Kumiai (National Farmers' Union). Chaired by SATAkE Haruki, the conference
voted to postpone the formal inauguration of the new group until July in order to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.99)
-217-
RESTRICTED
give the Nippon Nomin Kumiai time to purge itself of Communist influence and pave
the way for a reunion of the two organizations.
1
At this juncture the centrist members of the Thursday Society, devoted to the
preservation of Shakaito unity, addressed themselves to the task of reconciling the
On the left this involved inducing the Socialists in the
Nippon Nomin Kumiai to purge the organization of Communist control; on the right it
involved persuading Hirano and his followers to abandon their plan for formal
inauguration of a new union.
Prospects for driving a wedge between the left-wing Socialists and the
Commmists in the Nippon Nomin Kumiai appeared fairly favorable, since the Kato-
Suzuki anti-Communiet manifesto of May 15 had brought in its train increasing
anti-Communiem among left-wing Socialist Diet members affiliated with the Nippon
Nomin Kumiai. On the other hand, however, Communist influence in the Nippon Nomin
Kumiai was sufficiently strong to make it unlikely that the union could adopt a
clearly anti-Commumist position without producing still another split. Moreover, an
open break with the Cammunists was still vigorously opposed by the unity faction led
by union president and Socialist Diet member KURoDA Hisao and deriving most of its
support from left-wing Socialists and independents in the union's prefectural branches.
It soon became evident that the anti-Communists were dominant in the union's
Central Executive Committee while the Commmists and their unity faction allies
controlled the Central Committee. On July 4, the Central Executive Committee by a
vote of 10 to 6 adopted a motion, proposed by OKADA Shoji, condemning Commmiat
fractional activities within the union. The resolution concluded by "recognizing
the fact that the Nippon Nomin Kumiai must clearly define its stand against the
Kyosanto" and therefore urging "the Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai to return to the Nippon
Nōmin Kumiai as soon as possible."3
The right-wing organization's reception of
1.
Jiji Press release, May 25, 1947; Yomiur1 Shimbun, May 26, 1947.
2.
Seiji Shimbun, June 13, 1947.
3.
Jimmin, July 7, 1947; Mimpo, July 9, 1947; Akahata, July 10, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.98)
- 218 -
RESTRICTED
this resolution was distinctly cold, however, and former members of the Nippon
Nomin Kumia1 Central Committee who had seceded to the Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai
rejected the invitation to attend the sessions of the former in mid-July.1
The resolution edopted by the Central Erecutive Conmittee mot with no
success in the Nippon Nomin Kumiai's Central Committee. On the first day of the
session, attended by 142 of the original 256 Contral Committee members, heated
arguments raised by the demand of the pro-Communists, led by SHIMONOSAkE Masahide,
for a reaffirmation of the February political neutrality resolution were ended by
postponement of the final decision until the following day. At the second session
only 120 members were present, and in the absence of a quorum, the meeting was
adjourned without a vote. Press reports suggested that the small attendance at the
second meeting was the result of the deliberate absence of anti-Communist elements,
who realized that in the event of a vote the resolution would be defeated.2
Ten days later, on July 25, the Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai was inaugurated as planned.
The inaugural convention, attended by some 600 delegates representing 31
prefectural branches, elected KAGAWA Toyohiko president, SATAKE Haruki and
MATSUNAGA Yoshio vice-presidents, and KANO Takashi secretary general. Advisers
named included KATAYAMA Tetau, HIRANO Rikizo, MATSUOKA Komakich1, and SUGIYAMA
Motojiro. The new union, declaring that farmers must rise above preoccupation
with the class struggle, attacked the Nippon Namin Kumiai for its excessive class-
consciousness and its extreme leftism and predicted that internal controverey would
soon result in the complote collapse of the rival organization. Calling for the
maintenance of a sound Socialist union based on anti-Communiem, anti-Fascism, and
anti-Capitaliem and pledging its support to Hirano's agr:ultural progrem, the
Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai urged the construction of an agrarian society free from
1. Jij1 Press release, July 7, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, July 15, 1947.
2. Jiji Press releases, July 15 and 16, 1947; Se1j1 Shimbun, July 16, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.99)
- 219 -
RESTRICTED
exploitation, thoroughgoing reforn of land owmership, modernization of agriculture
through cooperatives and scientific management, and world-wide stabilization of
farm production.
1
The first formal break in an organization under Socialist control having been
thus finalized, centrists and anti-Communist leftists redoubled their efforts to
reconcile the two groups. While anti-Commmist members of the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai
sought local support for their policies, Shakaitō local leaders at a meeting on
July 28 reported that the rivalry between the Nippon Nomin Kumiai and the Zenkoku
Nomin Kumiai for control of prefectural units was having adverse effects on Shakaitō
local organization.2 Anti-Commnist leftists made another attempt to assert their
position on August 28, when forty-five Socialist Diet members affiliated with the
Nippon Nomin Kumiai issued a statement demanding that the union reject Commumist
leadership.3 To this the Kyosanto replied with charges of Fasciem and demands for
September 10, KURODA Hisao condemmed the Diet members' statement as absolutely
unauthorized and declared that there had been no change in the umion's policy of
recognizing the members' rights to complete freedom of political affiliation and
action -- a declaration that was quickly followed by Commumist demands for expulsion
from the union of Nomizo and other anti-Communist leaders.5
The widening differences among leftist Socialists aroused the concern of
MATSUMOTo Jinchiro, whose prestige as a proletarian elder statesmen was sufficiently
great to bring the contending leftists together and whose influence in general was
1.
Shaka1 Shimpo, July 22, 1947; J1ji Press roleasos, July 25 and 26, 1947;
Yomiuri Shimbun, July 26, 1947.
2.
Jimmin, July 24, 1947; Jij1 Press release, July 28, 1947.
3.
Se1ji Shimbum, August 30, 1947.
4.
Akahata, September 4, 1947.
5.
Mainichi Shimbun, September 10, 1947; Nippon Saixai Shimbun, Soptember 10, 1947;
Akahata, September 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.99)
- 220 -
RESTRICTED
exerted in favor of those who opposed rather than those who supported a break with
the Commmists. At Matsumoto's invitation a meeting was held at which Kuroda and
the signers of the August 28 statement discuesed their differences. As a result of
this meeting still another statement was published reaffirming the principle of
freedom of political action and condemming all attempts at partisan domination of
the farmers' movement or disruption of its unity, whether inspired by the Commnists,
1
the Liberals, or the Zenkoku Nāmin Kumiai.
A disappointment to Socialist centrists,
this statement was greeted with derision by Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai members as an
expression of complete surrender by the anti-Commmist elements of the Nippon Nomin
2
Kumiai.
3. Hirano's Expulsion from the Cabinet. While prospects of Shakaito unity
declined, Hirano's policies were creating bitter controversy in the cabinet. Late
in July, Hirano proposed the so-called ultra-emergency food program, the most
important aspects of which were concerned with stimulating over-quota deliveries of
the summer crops. Under this plan the government was to seek to purchase 1,2o0,000
offering for such over-quota produce a bonus amounting to about three times the
Hirano program was attacked by SHlMoSAkA Masahide of the Nippon Nomin Kumiai as
designed to foster the interests of the wealthy farmer who could afford to produce
more than his quota while offering no advantage to the poor farmer who could
prcduce no more than his quota, if that, and received for his crops less than
one-third of the cost of production.5
1.
Tokyo Shimbun, October 5, 1947; Tokyo Mimpo, October 6, 1947.
2.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, October 7, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, October 8, 1947.
3.
1 koku - 5.1 bushels.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, July 23, 1947.
5.
Jij1 Press release, July 24, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.96)
-221-
RFSTRICTED
Repercussions in the cabinet were more serious. To Finance Minister Kurusu,
the estimated expenditure for the plan of 3 to 4 billion yen seemed completely
contrary to the cabinet's commitment to stabilize finance, check inflation, and.
reduce government erpenditures and one that would require a vastly enlarged
supplementary budget. To Wade, Hirano's  oposal seemed a direct attack on the
recently established wage end price standards.1 Aftar some days of dispute, the
issue wes settled by a compromiso establiehing the bonus of twice the official price
Almost immediately, however, the issue arcse ngain in the form of a dispute
over the price to be set for the new rice crop.. Again ireno propcsed a price
regarled by other members of the cabinet as excessive and as likely to undermine
budget and wage-prico stabilization programs and again, after even more protracted
discussion, a compromise was reached setting the price at 1,700 yen per koku as
By the time the rice price issue was settled, Hirano's alienation from the
rest of the cabinet had become fully apparent and it was widely rumored that he
was planning to organize a new party. On October 1l, Hirano made a speech in Nera
attacking Wada, Nishio, and the Socialist left wing and implying that there was
On October 28, Hireno, who had ləft Tokyo, was asked by
the District Procurator's Office to return in order to explain his failure to declare
in his s atement of qualifications that he had been editor and publisher of the
nationalist magazine Kodo. This development and a number of indiscreet ramarks made
by Nishio and Justice Minister SuzukI Yoshio gave rice to widespraad belief that
Hirano was about to be removed from the cabinet by purge acticn. This aipeotation
1.
Mainichi Shimbum, August 1, 1947; J1ji Shimno, August 6, 1947.
2.
Jiji Press release, August 12, 1947.
3.
J151 Press releases, August 25, September 18, October 7, 14, 16, and 18, 1947;
Kyodo releases, September 18, October 3, 10, 15, and 22, 1947.
4，
Jij1 Shimpo, Ontober 12, 1947; Tokyo Times, (e ber 12, 1947; Tokyo Mimpo,
Octoter 15141

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.99)
-222-
RESTRICTED
subsequently proved to be premature, however, and it soon beceme apparent that the
purge issue, however justified, had been raised primarily as a device to encourage
Hirano's resignation. When, after several days of negotiation, Hirano made it
quite clear that he had absolutely no intention of resigning, he was diemiesed by
Katayama on the grounds of his disruptive activities in the cabinet and without
reference to the purge.1
Although Hirano gave no indication of immediate intention
of quitting the Shakaitō, it was obvious that his plans might be strongly influenced
by the Central Screening Committee's decision on his eligibility for public office.
Meanwhile, the selection of a successor to his portfolio was proving difficult and
was giving rise to a new left-wing offensive.
4. Controversy over the Succession. Hirano's dismissal from the cabinet was
greeted relatively mildly by members of the Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai faction, who,
despite their criticisms of Katayama and Nishio, reversed their original plans to
interpellate on the issue and for the moment confined themselves to demanding that
Hirano's successor be selected from among their number, putting forward s
2
desirable candidates SATAKE Haruke and INOUE Ryoji.
The leftists, welcoming
Hirano's dismissal as a vindication of their own initial opposition to his
appointment, regarded the occagion as favorable to the appointment of one of their
own faction to the cabinet. With the suppor of the Thursday Society, they
proposed allocation of the Agriculture and Forestry portfolio to NoMIzo Katau, anti-
Communist vice-president of the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai. The Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai, the
Democrats, and the People's Cooperatives quickly expressed their opposition to this
selection, and the latter even threatened to withdraw from the coalition if Nomizo
were appointed. Caught between these conflicting demands, Nishio announced that
the selection of a new minister would be postponed until after the passage of the
1. Jiji Press releases, October 21 and November 1-5, 1947; Asahi Shimbun,
November 3, 1947; Yomiur1 Shimbun, November 4 and 6, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun,
November 5, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, November 4 and 5, 1947; Mainich1 Shimbun, November 6, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.99)
-223-
RESTRICTED
coal bill.
1
On December 2 the May Society, in a resolution presented to Katayama, called
upon the cabinet to effect a wholesale change in its policies by adopting Socialist-
inspired measures to meet the current crisis; demanded that the independence of the
Shakaito be established by rejecting interference of other parties in filling the
Agriculture and Forestry post; and reiterated May Society support for Nomizo's
appointment.
2
On December 8, the Left renewed the offensive by publishing the proposals of
the Political Affairs Inquiry Committee for the compilation of the budget for the
next fiscal year. The Committee proposed suspension of interest payments on wartime
government bonds, reduction of taxation on workers in key industries, collection of
a second property tax, and elimination of over-capitalization of business enterprises
and expressed opposition to wholesale discharges of government employees as an
These particular aspects of the Committee's proposal aroused such
intense Democratic opposition that Katayama was forced to declare that the plan
represented only the personal ideas of SUZUKI Mosaburo, committee chairman, despite
4
the fact that it had been approved by the Shakaito's Central Executive Committee.
On December 13, HATAno Kanae, Socialist member of the House of Counciliors,
was appointed to the Agriculture and Forestry position. This appointment was
denounced by the Left as a surrender to the unreasonable intervention of the other
parties in opposition to the wishes of a majority of Socialiste and as an
abandonment of cabinet leadership to the Democrats an People's Cooperatives. In
statement to this effect, eighty-five Socialist Diet membere, declaring that only by
Socialist measures could the current crisis be overcome, announced that they were
reserving their future freedom of acticn, their right to criticize the conlition
1.
Mainichi Shimbum, November 11 and 12, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, November 13, 1947;
Kyodo release, November 13, 1947.
2.
Mainichi Shimbun, November 3, 1947.
3.
J1j1 Shimpo, December 9, 1947.
4.
Tokyo Mimpo, December 14, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.98)
-224 -
RESTRICTED
1
cabinet, and their right to press for the implementation of the party's own program.
While the left wing was becoming more aggressive, the extreme right wing was
not inactive. Although no stepe were taken toward the formation of a new party
until more than a month after Hirano's dismiesal, his followers showed themselves
increasingly independent of party discipline. When the Liberals proposed a non-
confidence motion against Nishio sixteen members of the Hirano faction abstained,
and when the coal bill was brought to a vote in the lower house nine members of the
faction were conspicuous by their absence.
2
Finally, on December 11, after a conference with members of the People's
Cooperative Party, the Farmers' Party, and the Dai Ichi Diet Members' Club who
some days previously had formed a Council of New Politics for lialson purpoees,
Hirano announced his belief that a new party was needed.3 Eleven days later,
Hirano and sixteen of his followers announced their intention of quitting the
14
Shakaito before January 16, the date scheduled for the pu ty's national convention.
On January 5, fifteen members of the Zenkoku Nonin Kumiei auounced thoir neceesion
from the Shakaitō, stating that the Katayama cabinet had beer a complete failure and
h manifested its dictatorial tendoncies in ousting Hirano. The seceding Socialists
declared that they expected to be joined immediately by eight menbers of tho Peoplo's
Cooperative Party, eix members of the Japan Farmers' Party, ars four members of th
Dai Ichi Diet Members' Club.5 Hirano's purge on January 13 desilt a serious blov to
the new party movement without lessening the determination of ne secelers to prosed
with their plane. The weakening of the coalition througi the loes of Hirano's
followers, however, was soon overshadowed by the threat to 1ts very existence causc
by the expanded loft-wing offensive.
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, December 18, 1947.
2.
Tomiuri Shimbun, November 28 and 20, 1947; Tokyo Mimpe, Dec mber 1. 19l47.
3.
Mainich1 Shimbum, December 12, 1947; Seiji Shimbui, cenbor 13, 1947.
4.
Asahi Shimbum, December 23, 1947.
5.
FBTB, Daily Report, Jenuary 5, 1948, pp. Au. 1-3.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.94)
-225-
RESTRICTED
D. Wages, the Budget, and the Fall of
the Cabinet
1.
The 1,800-Yen Wage Standard
a.
Attitudes of labor towarl the Katayama cabinet. Organized labor, on
the whole, greeted the inauguration of the Katayama cabinet as fulfilling its own
espirations. Differences of approach between the two major federations were
immediately apparent, however. The Sodomei, while urging strong measures for
industrial recovery and an adequate rationing system, pledged its full support
to the new government, whereas the Sanbetsu was more equivocal in expressing its
alleglance, warning the cabinet thet it could expect amooth sailing only if it
carried out the Shakaitō propram.
1
These differences of approach became more
marked as plans were developed for a rally under Zenroren auspices that would
express labor's support and expectations of the new regime. Originally planned as
a rally "to encourage the Katayama cebinet," the meeting, at Sanbetsu insistence and
despite Sōdōme! position, was retitled a rally "to encourace the Shakaitō" in
order to make it clear tat it wes the adoption of Socialist policy and not the
Sanbetau peakere were tuch more vehement in their criticima of the Katayama cabinet
By the time the ral'y wee held, moreover, a specifis issue hed erisen that was
destined inereasingly to weaken and divide lebor's support of the cabinet. On
Jime 19 the government announced thct it proposed to establish an average wage
scale on an occupational basis -- an ano nement greeted by the Kyosantō as
demonetrating the subservience of the cebinet to the interests of monopoly finance
capital and countered by a Commmist proposal that prices be stabilized before any
1.
Ayodo release, Jume 1, 1947; Jiji Prens release, June 3. 1047.
2.
J1 1 Prese oleases, June 27 and 30. 1947.
3.
Ji Prese release, July 6, 19l7: Tokye hmhm, July 7, Poh7; Seil Sh
Jety 13, 1047.
14.
  relee. Jme 19, 1947 Akah a. De 25, 2047.
RESRTTE

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.98)
- 226 -
RESTRICTED
labor was reflected in the slogan "Don't sacrifice labor for industrial rehabilitation"
adopted by the Zenroren committee for the July 6 rally. Two days before the rally,
however, after discussions with labor representatives who demanded a wage level of
2,6oo yen a month had made no progress, the government laid down wage levels by
industry that, when averaged, formed a composite wage standard of 1,8oo yen. On
July 5 the prices of certain essential commodities and railroad and other service
charges were doubled, and a further series of price changes in the next three
months continued the upward trend.
Although no segment of organized labor showed any great enthusiasm for the
governments wage policy, the reactions of individual unions were very much affected
by their political orientation as well as by the degree to which the wage standard
imposed particular hardships on their members. On the whole, the attitude of even
the most radical unions was based on the assumption that the interests of organized
labor were more likely to be protected by the Katayama cabinet than by any
conceivable alternative. Within the bounds of this general approach, however, there
was room for a fairly wide range of attitudes. The Sōdomei, expressing its
reluctant support for the government's program, advised its members not to seek
higher wages but sanctioned campaigns for special allowances to counteract ration
delays. The Sanbetsu, as well as leftist-controlled independent unions,
disavowing any desire for the overthrow of the cabinet, embarked upon an increasingly
outspoken campaign for the fulfillment of Socialist promises and the abandonment of
1
the four-party agreement on the basis of which the coalition had been established.
Differences of approach between the Sodomei and the Sanbetsu were marked within
the Tanzenkyō (Zenkoku Tanko Rōdō Kumiai Kyōgikai -- National Council of Coal Mine
Workers' Unions), an organization set up for collective bargaining purposes in
1. Jij1 Press release, July 26 and 29, August 12, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun,
July 11, 1947; Mimpo, August 7, 1947; Asahi Shimbun, August 13, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.98)
- 227 -
RESTRICTED
January l947 by the miners' affiliates of the two major federations together with
a number of independent miners' unions. On October 11, 1947 the Tanzenkyō's
national convention opened in an atmosphere of acute hostility between Sanbetau
and Sodōme1 elements. Reacting violently to criticiams of the Sodāmei and the
government, the Sodomei-affiliated union accused the Sanbetsu affiliate of seeking
to give the Tanzenkyō executive powers and of taking action in the name of the
Tanzenkyō that had not been agreed upon by the Sodame1 members. Controversy also
arose on questione of future policy, with the Sanbetsu affiliate opposing the
cabinet's coal control plan and demanding abandonment of the 1,800-yen wage lovel
while the Sodomei affiliate supported the coal control plan in principle and wished
to avoid open attacks on the 1,8o0-yen wage scale. On the third day of the
convention the Sōdomei affiliate and an independent union that had supported its
stand withdrew from the Tanzenkyo, taking with them about 120,000 mombers of a
b. Demands of the government workers. By late summer labor's restiveness
under the 1,800-yen standard was becoming increasingly evident in widespread
demands for special allowances and wage increases. Since private employers in
many cases had managed to evade the wage standard and since government workers'
wages in general tended to lag considerably behind those in private industry, the
main impact of the drive against the 1,8o0-yen standard was felt by the government
in its relationships with its own employees. The major labor organizations involved
in the dispute with the government were the Zente1 (Zen Teishin Jugyoin Kumiai --
All Communication Workere' Union), a Sanbetsu affil1ate with over 350,000 members;
the Kokutetsu (Kokutetsu Rōdō Kumiai -- Government Railroad Workers' Union), an
independent with over 550,000 members; and the Zenkankō (Zen Kankōchō Shokuin Rōdō
Kumiai Renraku Kyōgikai -- Federated Council of Government and Public Office Workere'
1. Kyodo releases, October 11 and 13, 1947; J1j1 Press rolease, October 11, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.96)
-228-
RESTRICTED
Unions), a federation that included among its affiliates the Zente1, the Kokutetau,
and six other government workers' unions with a total membership of over a million
and a half.
Leadership of the Zentei had been consistently Communist-controlled, but
Communist efforts to dominate the Kokutetsu met with greater resistance. Conflict
between pro- and anti-Commmists in the Kokutetsu first became conepicuous in August
and September l946, when strike plans were being made in opposition to Transportation
Ministry proposals for large-scale discharges of government railroad workers. In
August the decision of the union's national leadership to schedule a railroad strike
for September 15 led to accusations from the Nagoya local tnat the decision had been
adopted by undemocratic methods and reflected the strong influence or Communist
fractions.
Early in September, the Nagoya union and three other prefectural
branches seceded from the national organization because of their opposition to the
projected strike. As a result of this secession the union's strike committee was
reorganized and SuzukI Seiichi, a left-wing Socialist, was named chairman.2 On
September 13 the union, against strong Commmist opposition, accepted a Ministry
With the cessation of strike preparations the four seceding branches returned
to the national union, but the ant1-Communist issue was by no meane dead. At an
extraordinary nutina conven1 n in March 1947 a delegate from the Tokyo union
presented an urgen moion . i or the s on of Commmiats from union
office. At te tve h urs of enate. the mot on was tabled at the requeat of
Chairman Su aki, who ruod th its acceptance would split the union and violate
the fretiom of individuais  join political parties, guaranteed by the new Japanese
1. J1j1 Prese rolease, August 28,  46
2.
Jij1 Preu, release, September 5. 1946: BIr, Daily Report, September 10. 1946,
p. BD-5.
3.
FB, Daily Report, September 13. ; 1 Prs  Jose, September 14, 1946.
MASERHOUT

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.99)
-229-
RESTRICTED
1
Constitution.
This decision was hailed by the Commumist press as establishing the
Communist jubilation, however, proved to be premature. In Ootober, a three-day
national convention closed without decision on issues that had been a subject of
continuous dispute. The most important of these issues were Commmist-sponsored
motions calling for an amendment of the umion constitution to allow the Central
Executiva Committee to call strikes by a simple majority rather than a two-thirds
vote and for wage increases beyond the 1,8o0-yen monthly standard established by
the government. The failure of the Central Executive Committee to secure majority
support for its opposition to these proposals led to the resignation of the union
At this juncture anti-Commmist olements in the railroad workers' union
inaugurated a vigorous campaign to increase their representation in the Central
Executive Committee. On October 26, members of the Tokyo branch began
preparations for the formation of an anti-Communist league among union members
with the object of opposing the activities of Communist fractions and excluding
4
Kyoeantō members from union office.
On November 7, the anti-Commmist league was
inaugurated by 300 delogates, representing 75 locals, who pledged themselves to
abide by the principles of social democracy.5 By the end of November the locals
had completed their elections to the national Central Executive Committee and
Communist representation had been reduced from about one-fourth to about one-sixth.
A number of the most important Communist leaders, including II Yashiro, who had
1.
Jiji Press release, March 17, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, March 18, 1947.
2.
Akahata, March 27, 1947.
3.
Kyodo release, October 21, 1947; Akahata, October 24, 1947; Shakai Shimbun,
October 27, 1947.
4.
Asahi Shimbun, October 28, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, November 1, 1947.
5.
J1ji Pres8 release, November 7, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, November 7, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.99)
-230-
RESTRICTED
1
Central
dominated the February 1 strike preparations, were not returned to office.
Eteuo, leader of the anti-Communist faction, as chairman of the union and adoption
of policies prohibiting individual chapters from striking or filing requests for
mediation without the consent of national headquarters and establishing the union's
2
intention of acting independently of other goyernment and public workers' unions.
Despite the growing anti-Communism in the Kokutetsu as opposed to outright
Communist domination of the Zente1, the disputes of both with the Katayama cabinet
followed parallel lines, and the adoption of militant tactics, such as the mass
absenteeism of the Tokyo postal workers in October, was the exception rather than
the rule even with regard to the most redical unions. The most pressing demands
of all the unions involved were for immediate supplementary allowances and for
the establishment of a minimum wege sufficient to cover living expenses. Negotiations
with the government on these and other issues were carried on for some monthe with
no great success and were marked by increasingly bitter attacks by the Sanbetsu and
the Zentei on the policies of the cabinet, a growing tendency on the part of the
Sodōmei to disassociate itself from the Zenroren and to criticize the tactics of
the more militant unions, indications of doubts within the cabinet as to the
feasibility of attempts to maintain the 1,800-yen standard, and hints that the
government was contemplating legislative restrictions on Communist activity in
trade unions.
Meanwhile, the Central Labor Relations Committee (CIRC), to which the government
workers' case had been referred, evolved a compromise proposal. Published in
November, the CIRC proposal called for the payment to government workers of an
allowance equivalent to 2.8 months' wages and the establishment of a srecial wage
1.
Tokyo Shimbun, November 25, 1947; Kyodo release, November 25, 1947.
2.
Kyodo release, December 2, 1947; Jiji Press release, December 3, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.99)
-231-
RESTRICTED
committee, consisting of representatives of the government, the unions, and the
CIRC, to work out a new wage standard for government workers to be effective as of
Januery 1948. After an initial display of considerable reluctance by both parties
to the dispute, the CIRC formula wes finally accepted in mid-December, and by
the end of the month the government hed disbursed the equivalent of two months'
wegee in allowances. The necessity of adopting a supplementary budget to provide
for the remaining 0.8 allowance, however, as well as to cover other government
expenditures, brought to e head a long-standing government dispute over budgetary
policy and wes to be the immediate cause of the fall of the Ketayama cebinet.
2.
The Budget Controversy
a.
Background. Early in December a supplementary budget proposed by the
cabire and passed by the Diet had aroused considerable disquiet among Shakaitō
representatives. Particular targets of opposition within the party were the
increase in tobacco prices end in indirect taxes, increeses that led left-wing
Socialists to accuse the cabinet of following in the financial footsteps of
ISHIBASHI Tanzan by imposing increased burdens on the masses rather than developing
new and more effective end equitable budgetary practices. Hope was expressed by
all factions of the perty that the compilation of the budget for the next fiscel
year might become the occasion for the epplication of Socialist principles, and i
was agreed that the Political Research Committees of the three Eoverrment parties
The meetings of the three committees immediatel lemonstrated that the Democrats
and the Socialists were far apart in their views regarding the principles upon which
the new budget was to be based. At an eerly meeting SUzUKI Mosaburo put forwerd the
plan of the Shakaito committee for the elimination of fictitious cepital, the
1. House of Representatives, First Session of the National Diet, Official Gazette
Extra, No. 54, November 6, 1947, Nc. 64, November 24, 1947; J1j1 Shimpo,
November 7, 1947; M-inichi Shimbun, November 10, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.99)
-232-
RESTRICTED
reduction of taxation on the workers, the imposition of a second property tax, and
the cancellation of interest payments on wartime government bonds. The last two
proposals particularly aroused the ire of the Democrats, who charged that their
on an extended discussion of what specifically was intended by the rather vague
torms of the agreement, the Shakaito Political Research Committee, strongly seconded
by the May Society, called for the abrogation of the agreement, supporting agruments
against its continuing appropriateness by references to the fact that the Liberals
as far back as mid-August had announced that they no longer regarded themselves as
2
bound by its terms.
Shakaito leaders in the cabinet, caught between the uncompromising hostility of
the Democrats to Suzuki's proposals and the threats of their own left wing to demand
the resignation of the cabinet if Socialist budgetary measures were not put into
effect, adopted a temporizing position. On the one hand, they denied that the
budget proposals advanced by the Political Research Committee had any binding force
in the party or that the defection of the Liberals had in any way affected the
validity of the four-party agreement; on the other hand, they committed themselves
to seeking some satisfactory arrangement with the Democrate and spoke veguely of
the eventual replacement of the four-party agreement by an agreement among the
Meanwhile, all factions of the party were seeking to
strengthen their influence and solidify their alliences in preparation for the
third Shakaito national convention scheduled to begin 1ts sessions on January 16, 1948.
The Shakaitō national convention. The left-wing offensive that had begun
early in December over the issue of appointing a successor to Hirano reached a high
1.
Tokyo Shimbun, December 5, 1947; Jij1 Shimpo, December 9, 1947; Kyodo release,
December 10, 1947; J1j1 Press release, December 11, 1947.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, December 12, 17, and 19, 1947; Tokyo Shimbun, December 17,
1947; Asah1 Shimbun, December 19, 1947; Mainichi Shimbun, December 20, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.99)
- 233-
RESTRICTED
1
point at the sessions of the Shakaitō's third national convention.
The ability of
the Left to increase its representation in the governing organs of the party and to
carry through its policy proposals successfully was facilitated, although not
decisively affected, by the absence of the fifteen Hirano-faction Diet members who
had seceded from the party on January 5 and of the three delegates from Kochi who,
it was reported, had remained away from the convention at the urging of SATAkE
Although the secession of Hirano's followers had not received any
significant support in most of the local branches of the party and the Zenkoku
Nomin Kumiai had not in consequence of the secession withdrawn its support from the
Shakaitō, on many questions the margin of votes was so slight as to make the
absence of even a small group significant.
On January 17, the delegates from Okayama, Ehime, Aomor1, Gumma, Oita, and
Two days later, after prolonged debate in which Nishio had appeared as the principal
supporter of the four-party agreement and Suzuki as its principal opponenet and after
an attempt by Chairman MATSUOKA Komakichi to force adjourmment without decision on
the four-party agreement had been forestalled, the resolution was passed by a vote
of 366 to 345. On the same day the party went on record as demanding immediate
suspension of interest payments on wartime bonds and as rejecting freezing of the
4
new yen.
Despite the left-wing victory, some doubt remained as to the future status of
the four-party agreement. In the face of strongly expressed Democratic and People's
Cooperative disapproval of the action of the Shakaito convention, Socialist cabinet
members were inclined to dismiss left-wing arguments that the convention's decision
1.
See above, p. 70.
2.
Daiichi Shimbun, January 21, 1948. Satake himself did not secede from the party
unt11 January 23.
3.
Jiji Press release, January 17, 19!8; Kyodo releases, January 17 and 18, 1948;
Mainichi Shimbun, January 18, 1948.
4.
J1ji Press release, January 19, 1048; Mainichi Shimbun, January 19, 1948;
Asahi Shimbun, January 19, 1048.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.99)
-23h:-
RESTRICTED
1
was binding and required immediate action.
Finally, on January 28, the Shakaitō
Central Executive Committee reached agreement that the convention's decision on
suspension of interest payments on wartime bonds should be regarded as immediately
2
binding.
c. The dispute over the supplementary budget. In the midet of the
controversy over the effect of Socialls convention decieions, the supplementary
budget issue had become a new source of left-wing opposition to the policies of the
cabiret. On January 27, the cabinet decided to meet financial needs created
principally by the pending 0.8 payment to government workers by a 100 percent
increase in railroad fares and postage charges. 'his proposal aroused the immediate
and intense opposition of the May Society and of the unions involved as exposing them
to popular condemmation for a rise in the cost of living.3 Suzuki, backed unanimously
by the May Society, then proposed that the supplementary budget embodying the rate
rises be withdrawn and that the necessary revenue be raised through cancellation of
interest payments on wartime bonds and sale to the general public of rejected export
4
goods being held by the Board of Trade.4
Despite the fact that the May Society
position was being firmly supported by over 50 Socialist members of the lower house,
the Shakaitō Central Executive Committee on February 4 gave 1ts support to the
cabinet's budget proposal by a vote of 14 to 10.5 On February 5, the Budget
Committee of the House of Representatives, by the combined vote of the left-wing
Socialista and the opposition parties, passed a resolution demanding that the
government withdraw the supplementary budget; on February 6 the budget wes withdrawn;
and on February 9, Katayama announced that his government would resign on the
following day.
1.
Yomiur1 Shimbun, January 19, 1948; Jiji Press releases, January 19, 20, 22, and
23, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun, January 23, 1943; Asahi Shimbun, January 27, 1948.
2.
Jij1 Press release, January 28, 1948.
3.
Jij1 Press releases, January 27 and 30, February 1 and 4, 1948.
4.
Jij1 Press releases, January 29, 30, and 31, February 3, 1948.
5.
Mainichi Shimbun, February 1 and 5, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.98)
-235-
RESTRICTED
III.
THE ASHDA CABINET
八.
Organizat!on.
1.
Controversy over the Succession. When the Katayama cabinet resigned early
in February, 446 of the 466 seats in the House of Representatives were filled. of
these, ?61 were controlled by the coalition parties -- the Socialists occuped 123
seats, the Democrats 100, and the People's Cooperatives 32. The Liberals, the
major opposition party, were represented in the lower house by 119 members and
could expect close cooperation from the 29 members of the Doshi Club, a group of
former Democrats led by SHIDEHARA Kijuro, who had left the party over the issue
of support of the Socialist-sponsored coal bill. Minor parties generaliy hostile
to the coalition included the Zenno Club, the 16 members of which had been led out
of the Socialist Farty by HIRANo Rikizo, the Dai Ichi Diet Membera' Club, with 15
members; and the Japan Farmers' Party, with 7 members.
This distribution of seats made it essential that the new cabinet be composed
of at least two of the major parties and that it have, in addition, some minor
party support. The fact that the refusal of the left-wing Socialists to follow
the dictates of the party's Central Executive Committee had been the immediate
cause of the cebinet's fall rendered impossibie Socialist leadership of a new
coalition. Instead the Shakaitō devoted itself primarily to restoring eome
semblance of internal unity and secondarily to seeking conditions that would make
possible Socialist participation in a new cabinet without precipitating left-wing
secessione.
Under these circumstances, the contest for leadership of the new cabinet was
between the Liberals and the Democrats. The resigmation of the cabinet on
February 10 elicited an immediate demand from ONo Bamboku, Secretary General of
the Liberal Party, for leadership of the next cabinet by YOSHIDA Shigeru, Liberal
RESTRICTED

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.98)
- 236 -
RESTRICTED
Party president. Later Ono explained that, although some Liberals favored a single-
party cabinet that would dissolve the Diet and call a new election, Yoshida himself
was willing to avoid dissolution by the formation of a conservative coalition. In
the lower house Yoshida's candidacy was supported by the Doshi and Dai Ichi Clubs,
while the Zenno Club, in its attempts to organize all the minor groups, including
the People's Cooperatives, into a new party, showed a general pro-Liberal orientation.
In the House of Councillors, the 42 Liberal Councillors were backed by a sufficient
number of the 89 members of the Ryokufuka1 (an organization of independents) to give
them majority support for their demand for Liberal leadership of the cabinet.1 In
their efforts to form a new and broader conservative party, however, the Liberals
were somewhat impeded by internal differences as to whether organization of the new
party should proceed on the basis of an alliance with the Doshi Club, other minor
parties, and such dissident Democrats as could be lured away or whether formal steps
should be delayed until the new group was certain to enlist the support of the bulk
of the vemocratic Party.
The Democrats responded to the Liberal drive by proposing a four-party
national unity coalition under Democratic leaderahip. It seemed highly unlikely,
however, that this maneuver was taken very seriously by its sponsors in view of
the open refusal of the Liberals to consider participation in a cabinet that
included the Socialists and the inevitable refusal of the Socialists to associate
themselves with the Liberale. The real questions for the Democrats were whether to
accede to the Liberal demand for leadershi: and enter a coalition on that basis and,
if this were rejected, whether to ins  t on the elimination of left-wing Socialist
1.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, February 11, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun, February 13, 1948;
Seiji Shimbun, February 13, 1948.
RESTR.CTED

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.99)
- 237-
RESTRICTED
leaders as a condition for a coalition with the Socialists. For the first proposal,
strong support ceme from the group in the party led by SArto Takao, Minister without
Portfolio in the Katayama cabinet. On the other hand, alliance with the Liberals
and other conservative elements, however logical from the point of view of
similarity of policies, was unacceptable to the group led by Ashida not only
because of personal antagoniem toward Yoshida and Shidehara but also because it
appeared to thie group that a cabinet that excluded the Socialists would, almost
inevitably, face an uncontrollable labor offensive. In his desire to gain Socialist
support for a Democrat-led cabinet, Ashida was willing to make substantial concessions
to the leftists, even to the point of granting them seats in the cabinet. This
approach was opposed not only by Saito and his group but also by such Democrats es
Welfare Minister HITOTSUMATSU Sadakichi and Finance Minister Kurusu, who, together
with a large number of party members, favored inclusion of right-wing Socialists
only and were inclined to demand that intransigent left-wing leaders be expelled
1
from the Socialist Party.
Meamwhile the Socialists were discussing the advisability of participating in
a new coalition cabinet. A gesture toward reestablishment of party unity having
been made by Suzuki's resignation as chairman of the lower nouse Budget Committee,
the left wing continued to ineist that the Shakaito remain outside the new cabinet.
Ite ability to advance this argument successfuliy, however, was compromised by a
aplit within its own ranks, with two of its most prominent leaders, KAto Kanju and
NomIzo Masaru, advocating participation as a device to prevent conservative unity
and safeguard the interests of labor in the government. The argument raged with
seemingly little prospect of satisfactory settlement, and on February 16 the
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, February 7, 13, and 17, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun, February 9, 11,
and 12, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, February 10 and 16, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.99)
-238-
RESTRICTED
Shakaito Contral Executive Committee announced that the party would make no formal
decision until aspirants for cabinet leadership hed published policy statements.1
2. Discussion of Cabinet Policy. On February 18, the Democrats responded to
the Socialist stand by publishing a ten-point policy statement proposed as the
The statement, in general, differed little from
the four-party agreement. Nevertheless, since it made no mention of interest
payments on wartime bonds and the freezing of the new yen, was somewhat stronger
in favoring state controls of basic industries where necessary to increase
production, and specifically rejected legislation aimed at restricting labor, it
could be interpreted as an attempt to enlist the support of the Socialists and
particularly that of the left-wing faction.
The Socialists, however, greeted the statement with little onthusiasm,
criticizing it as far too abstract and demanding that the Democrats made clear
the concrete plans by which they proposed to attain their policy objectives.
Despite the objections of the Saito faction to further concessions to the Socialists,
the Democrats responded to this demand on February 20 by publishing a number of
amendments to the policy statement of February 18. These amendments included
specific commitments to establish a five-year plan for the control of the coal,
electric power, and transportation industries under the direction and supervision
of a supreme economic conference; to appoint supervisory committees for the
petroleum, power, and other key industries and for the Bank of Japan and the
Reconstruction Finance Bank; to reduce corporate and earned income taxes; and to set
The left-wing Socialists, however, were far from satisfied with these concessions.
1.
Yomiuri Shimbun, February 11 and 13, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun, February 14, 1948.
2.
Tokyo Shimbun, February 19, 1948.
3.
Jiji Press release, February 20, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.99)
-239-
RESTRICTED
Under their pressure, the Shakaitō Central Executive Committee, at a meoting on
February 21, agreed to accept a policy statement formulated by the Political
Research Committee that, once again called for suspension of interest payments on
wartime government bonds, reduction of the tax on earned income, state ownership
of the Bank of Japan, nationalization of the electric power industry and democratic
state control of such key industries as fertilizer and steel, avoidance of administrative
read justments aimed only at discharging personnel, and preparation of a third land
succeeded in passing a motion committing the Shakaito to casting its ballots for
the premiership, l0l Socialist votes were cast for Ashida, while, of the remaining
22, a number of the most uncompromising leftists showed their unwillingness to
accept the party decision by voting for Katayama, abstaining, or casting invalid
Ashida's designation as premier, however, by no means solved the problem of
attaining the Democratic-Socialist agreement on policy that was essential for
revival of the coalition. Ashida's first step, therefore, was to seek the
cooperation of the Socialists and the People's Cooperatives in organizing a three-
party policy committee. Democratic proposals for opening negotiations on a policy
agreement were accepted by the Shakaito Central Executive Committee by a vote of
By March 2, the three-party committee had agreed on a policy draft the economic
provisions of which called for reductions in earned income taxes and corporate taxes,
1.
Mainich1 Shimbun, February 20, 1948; Kyodo release, February 21, 1948;
Jiji Press reloase, February 21, 1948.
2.
Tokyo Shimbun, February 22, 1948.
3.
Nippon Keizai Shimbun, February 22, 1948.
4.
Jiji Press release, February 25, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.99)
- 240 
RESTRICTED
revision of the Bank of Japan Law, investigation of the Reconstruction Finance Bank
with a view to its reorganization, enforcement of state management of the coal
industry, extension of democratic state management of such key industries as
fertilizer, iron and steel, and petroleum if necessary, and establishment of special
organs for financing small and medium-sized industry and for financing rehabilitation
and improvement of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries. The statement also
declared that the war bond interest payment question would be "duly taken care of"
and that the Socialist proposals for additional property taxes would be studied
carefully. On the following day compromises were reached on the remaining questions
at issue. At this time, the three parties agreed to establish a research council to
study the question of state control of the fertilizer industry and another to study
the question of suspension of the war bond interest payments. The three parties
further agreed to interpret the agricultural soction of the policy statement to
Despite agreement on policy issues, however, it was still far from certain
that the three parties would succeed in forming a cabinet. During the course of
the negotiations, three members of the People's Cooperative Party seceded in protest
againat their party's refusal to join in the Zenno Club's plans for a new party; the
Democratic Taiyokai faction denounced its party for making too many concessions to
the left-wing Socialists; and fourteen Democrats, including SAITO Takao, finally
seceded from the party. In the Shakaitō, meanvhile, controversy continued not only
between Right and Left but also within the left-wing group itself. On March 1 the
May Society by a vote of 53 to 17 adopted a resolution calling upon the Shakaitō
to assume an opposition role. On March 4 Katayama's refusal to join the cabinet,
despite the urging of right-wing Socialists, was supported by the Central Executive
1.
Tokyo Shimbun, March 3, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, March 3 and 4, 1948;
Asah1 Shimbun, March 4, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
-241-
RESTRICTTD
Committee. Despite the opposition of the majority of left-wing Socialists, however,
Kato and Nomizo remained firm in their intention of participating in the cabinet.
Confronted with this situation, SUzUkI Mosaburo, one of the leeders of left-wing
opposition to participation in the cabinet, declared on March 7 in a conversation
with Katayama and Secretary General Asanuma that the May Society would not actively
oppose the entry of Kato and Nomizo into the cabinet on condition tha Katayama
1
and Asanuma remained outside and devoted themselves to rebuilding party unity.
Finally, on March 9, the new cabinet was formed with six Democratic members, eight
Socialists, and two People's Cooperatives. Of the Socialists, four ministers
had been members of the Katayama cabinet: NISHIO Suehiro, who became Deputy
Premier; and MORITO Takuo, MIZUTANI Chosaburo, and SUZUKI Yoshio, who retained
their posts as Education Minister, Minister of Commerce and Industry, and Attorney
General respectively. New Socialist members included NAGAE Kazuo as Minister of
Agriculture, TOMIYOSHI j1 as Communications Minister, KATO Kanju as Labor Minister,
and NOMIzo Masaru es Minister without Portfolio.
B. Trade-Union Anti-Communiam and the Revival of Communist United Front Efforts
1. Introduction. Even before the fall of the Katayama cabinet, mounting
opposition within the trade unions to the policies of Commumist leaders, together
with efforts by the Socialists to expand their influence among organized workera,
had led to the development of organized anti-Communism in a number of important
2
unions that had been Communist-dominated or heavily infiltrated by Communist elements.
This threat to the Commnist position, coupled with the widening split in the left
wing of the Shekaitō (manifested in the budget crisis and the controversy over
participation in the Ashida cabinet), was an important factor in stimulating the
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, March 1, 1948; Jij1 Press releases, March 1, 4, and 5, 1948;
Nippon Keiza1 Shimbun, March 2, 1948; Kyodo releases, March 2 and 4, 1948; Mimpo,
March 5, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, March 8, 1948.
2.
See above, p. 228.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.99)
-242-
RESTRICTED
revival of the Commnist united front cempaign. During the early months of Ashida's
tenure both trends -- anti-Commmiem on the one hand and moves toward a united front
on the other -- became increasingly marked.
2. Anti-Commniem in the Trade-Union Federations. By the end of 1947 developments
among press, mine, and railroad workers, as well as less dramatic manifestations of
anti-Communiem in other unions, had opened the way for a campaign to extirpate
Communist influence from the trade-union movement as a whole. That the Sanbetsu was
aware of the weaknesses resulting from accusations of Communist domination was
demonstrated by the decisions reached at its national convention in November. The
cry for trade-umion unity was raised once again, but it was now decided that, if
necessary, unions belonging to the Sanbetsu should drop their affiliation in order
to bring about amalgamation with other unions in the same field and, further, that
1
the Sanbetsu itself might be discolved if this would promote trade-union unification.
On December 28, 1947, the Sōdomei's Osaka branch took the initiative in suggesting
the establishment of a new organization, the Rodo Kumiai Minshuka Remmei (Trade-Union
Democratization League) for the furtherance of trade-union democracy and the
2
rejection of Commmist influence in trade-union activities.
The now group, the organization of which was unanimously approved by the
Sōdomei Central Executive Committee in mid-January, was to be composed not only of
unions in sympathy with the organization's objectives but also of individual union
members. Its aims were to be: to eliminate the dictatorial tendencies of political
party members in trade umions, democratize the trade unions, and establish their
autonomy; to fight capitaliem as well as totalitarianiem of the extreme right and
loft; to secure adequate living conditions for the workers through recovery of
1.
Asahi Shimbun, November 19, 1947; Yomiuri Shimbun, November 20, 1947;
Seiji Shimbun, November 21, 1947.
2.
Jiji Press release, December 29, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.99)
-243 -
RESTRICTED
production and the furtherance of labor logislation; and, rejecting merely formal
concepts of trade-union unity, to bring about unity on the basis of fratornity ad
trust.
1
The initial reactions of the Sanbetsu leaderahip to the Sōdomei cempaign were
hesitant, and it was decided not to take positive countermeasures immediately
but rather to rectify the misapprehensions of Sanbetsu members with regard to the
position of the Commmists in the organization and to acquaint the membership more
2
fully with the policies adopted at the November convention.
Meanwhile, Sanbetau
leadership was demonstrating 1ts ties with the Communists increasingly frankly by
Central Executive Committee visits to Kyosantō headquarters, in the course of which
Within a month, however, the Commumist position was to be more seriously
threatened by a new organization set up within the Sanbetsu itself. In mid-February,
reportedly after conversations with Shakaitō and Sōdomei members, elements in the
Sanbetsu announced plans for the organization of a new group, the Sanbetau Minahuka
Domei (Sanbetsu Democratization League, commonly referred to as Mindo). The leaders
of the Mindo -- the most conspicuous of whom were MITSUMURA Jinsuke, vice chairman
of the Sanbetsu and member of the Zentei's Central Executive Committee; KANAYAMA
Satoshi, chairman of the Sanbetau Finance Department; KIDA Koji, chairman of the
Sanbetau Publications Department; and HOSoYA Matsuta, former assistant secretary
general of the Sanbetau, who had seceded from the Kyosantō in 1947 -- anmounced
their program as opposition to the revision of labor laws, opposition to the
conversion of the Sanbetsu to a tool of capitaliam, and opposition to control of
4
the union movement by political parties.
J1j1 Press releases, January 9 and 13, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, January 14, 1948.
2.
Jiji Press release, January 15, 1948; Mimpo, January 17, 1948.
3.
Akahata, January 18 and 20, 1948.
4.
Kyodo release, February 14, 1948; Yomiur1 Shimbun, February 14, 1948;
Asahi Shimbun, February 15, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.98)
-244-
RESTRICTED
The dy after the announcement of the Mindo's formation, the Sanbetsu secretariat
by a vote of 14 to 3 decided to prohibit its activities. The three dissenters,
Mitsumura, Kanayama, and Kida, theroupon resigned from their executive positions
and, charging that 13 of the 19 members of the Sanbetau secretariat and 30 of its
49 Central Executive Committee membere were Communists, announced that they
the unfavorable reaction to the secretariat decision in the Sodomei, the Kokutetau,
and other unions that the Sanbeteu executives evidently felt called upon to
reconsider. On February 21, therefore, the Sanbeteu Central Executive Committee,
accepting the resignation of the three Mindo leaders, decided to allow the
organization to continue its activities as long as it did not violate Sanbetau
regulations and to place the final decision in the hands of the next Sanbetsu
convention.2
In mid-June, after some months of activity within individual Sanbetsu unions
and local branches and of liaison meetings with similar democratization movements
in the Sodomei, the Kokutetau, and other unione, the Mindo held its firet national
convention. Claiming 300,000 sympathizers in Sanbetsu-affiliated unions, the
group looked forward to a period of further growth. Whatever its claime, however,
the Mindo had not yet succeeded in gaining control over any single Sanbetsu effiliate,
while the difficulties being encountered by the anti-Communist movement in the
Kokuteteu served warning to similar groups in other unions that major obstacles lay
in their path.
3. Weakening of the Anti-Communists in the Kokutetau. By the and of 1947 anti-
Communiets in the Kokutetau had established themselves in what appeared to be an
1.
Yomiuri Shimbun, February 17, 1948; Kyodo release, February 18, 1948;
Asahi Shimbun, February 19, 1948.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, February 19, 21, and 22, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, February
RESTRICTED

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.99)
- 245 -
RESTRICTED
unquestionably dominant position in the union leadership. In the early months of
1948, however, this position was to be seriously undermined by growing union
opposition to leadership policies with regard to the establishment of a wage scale
for government workers.
In November 1947 the Central Labor Relations Committee had coupled its
recommendation for payment to government workers of an allowance equal to 2.8
months' ealary with a proposal that a special wage committee be established to work
out a new wage standard for government employees. Because of trade-union opposition
the Temporary Wage Committee was not established unt1l January 1948, and at that
time the Kokutetsu was the only government workers' union that had agreed to
participate in its deliberations. At the end of February the Committee published
recommendations for a 2,920-yen average wage scale and for the development of a new
system of employee classification. Recommendations with regard to the new wage
level were accepted by the Ashida cabinet on March 13. Two days later the Kokutetsu
opened a special convention to determine its attitude toward the proposal.
It was immediately apparent that the margin of control held by the anti-
commniste in the Kokutetsu had bsen substantially narrowed. It was only by a
bare majority that the ant1-Communista captured the chairmanship and the vice-
chairmanship of the convention, the 2,920-yen wage scale was accepted, and a
Communist-sponsored motion of no-confidence in the union's central struggle
committee was defeated. An ominous sign for the future, moreover, was the
organization of a new group within the union, the Kakushin Dōshikai (Reformist
Comrades' Society), composed of so-called neutrals who were in actual fact to lend
1. J1j1 Press releases, March 15 and 17, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, March 20, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.98)
-246-
RESTRICTED
During April, opposition to the ?,920-yen wege scale grew rapidly -- a situation
utilized by the Kakushin Dōshikai to strengthen its own position. The results were
evident in the union elections held in May and in the national convention that
followed. In mid-May final returns in the Central Committee elections showed an
almoet oqual division of strength between the anti-Communists on the one hand and
the Communists and their increasingly close allies, the Kakushin Doshikai, on the
other.
On May 29, when the Central Committee met to elect the members of the
Central Executive Committee, the anti-Communists were reduced from a 75 percent
maority to control of on half the seate. KATo Etsuo, leader of the anti-Communists,
ber:ly succeeded in retaining the chairmanship that he had won the preceding
Dec-mier, while the vice chairmanehip went to SUZUkI Ichizo, a member of the
Kyōsnntō, and the post of secretry general to KANEMASA Daikichiro of the Kakushin
Dōshjkai.
The delicate balance that now existed in the Kokutetsu was further exhibited
In the cesglons of the national convention opening on May 30. The right wing was
victorious in maintaining the prohibition on initiation of acts of dispute by
union locals without the consent of national headquarters, a victory made possible
in part by a split in the Kakushin Doshikai on this issue; the left wing was
victorious In brin ing about the adoption of a demand for a wage level of 5,100 yen
and a commitment to coord inate the Kokuteteu wage demand policy with that of the
Zenkankō.? At the end of June the convention of the Kokuteteu's Youth Department
confirmed the lecline in the anti-Communist position when the anti-Communists
1.
Avallable reports on the exact figures differ somewhat. The Tokyo Shimbun for
May 18, 19l8 gives the final results as anti-Communist 58, Communist 21,
Kakushin D5shika1 33, unaffiliated or unknown 15; Mimpo for May 26, 1948 gives
the final f1gures as anti-Communist 50, Communist 25, Kakushin Doshikai 30,
unaffiliated or unknown 22.
2.
Jiji Press releases, May 29, June 1 and 2, 1948; Mainich1 Shimbun, May 31 and
June 1, 1948; Kyodo releases, May 31 and June 1, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.99)
-247-
RESTRICTED
were defeated by a vote of 199 to 83 in their attempt to dissolve the Department and
succeed in electing only 18 members to the Central Committee as against 33 for the
Communiste.1
4. Stalemate in the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai. While ant1-Communism in the trade
unions was on the whole making advances despite eet-backs in the Kokutetau, the
atruggle between pro- and anti-Communists in the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai continued to be
inconclusive, with the former dominating the Central Committee and the latter the
Central Executive Committee. Under these circumstances the anti-Communists adopted
the strategy of utilizing their majority on the Central Executive Committee to force
through repeated postponements of Central Committee meetings and of the union's
national convention while at the same time seeking to increase their strengtn in the
union's prefectural brenches.
Plans for the formal organization of a democratization movement in the Nippon
Nomin Kumiai patterned after those already established in other unions were laid in
March when leaders of the anti-Communist chapters in Niigata, Toyama, Akita, and
Saitama met for this purpose. Fifteen Socialist members of the Diet, led by
INAMURA Junzo, SATAKE Shinichi, and TANAKA Orinoshin, immediately offered their
support. On April 4 the Shutaisei Kakuritau Domei (League for the Establishment of
Independence) was formally inaugurated at a meeting of 50 representatives from 15
2
prefectural branches.
At the same time, the union's Central Executive Committee met and, as a
substitute for the repeatedly postponed national convention, agreed to hold a
national conference in mid-April to be attended by five representatives from each
prefecture, including the chairman and secretary general of each prefectural chapter.
1.
Akahata, June 30, 1948.
2.
J1j1 Press releases, March 20 and 22, 1948, April 5, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun,
March 21 and 23, 1948; Kyodo releases, March 21 and April 5, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 575 === (confidence 0.99)
-248-
RESTRICTED
To avoid a test of strength for which they were far from prepared, the anti-Commmist
majority on the Central Executive Committee laid down the ruling that only the
1
immediate economic problems of the farmers were to be discussed at the conference.
This decision was unsuccessfully challenged by leftists at the conference, which,
aside from securing an agreement to hold a Central Committee meeting in mid-May,
2
appears to have accomplished little.
The Central Committee sessione were even more inconclusive and, like previous
Nippon Nomin Kumiai gatherings, were conspicuous only for violent encounters, verbal
Thwarted in any hopes they may have had for capturing the Central Committee, the
anti-Communists once again asserted their control of the Central Executive Committee
by passing a resolution in that body calling for the eradication of Commmist
influence in the union. To this Kuroda and his followers replied by organizing a
rival body to the Shutaise1 Kakuritsu Domei, the Seitoha Dōshikai (Orthodor Comrades
Group), pledged to maintain the principle of freedom of support for any political
party.4
5. The Kyōsantō's Democratic Racial Front Campaign. By the end of June anti-
Commmiem, despite set-backs, had made sufficient headway to be an obvious threat
to Commmmist influence in the labor movement and Sodomei withdrawal from the Zenroren
on charges that it was Kyosanto-dominated had withdrewn the last prop from the tottering
edifice of trade-union unity. On the other hand, however, a ronewed Communist
popular front drive had met with some success among extreme left-wing members of the
Shakaito.
1.
Akahata, Apr1l 6, 1948; Mimpo, Apr1l 7, 1948.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, Apr1l 13 and 14, 1948.
3.
Jij1 Press reloase, May 17, 1948; Mainich1 Shimbun, May 18, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun,
May 18, 1948.
4.
Kyodo reloase, June 23, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, June 24, 1948; Mimpo, June 24, 1948;
Akahata, Juno 25, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 576 === (confidence 0.99)
-249-
RESTRICTED
First evidences cf the revived Kyosantō campaign appeared in November 1947
with the opaning of a series of farmer-labor round-table conferences in which
prominent parts were played by such Commmist supporters as DOBASHI Kazuyoshi
and by such Socialists as KURODA Hisao and SUzUkI Seiichi, who had consistently
opposed a complete break with the Communists.1 On February 6, the Kyosanto Central
Committee decided to inaugurate a campaign for a democratic racial front, a slightly
new twist to an old line in its emphasis on the Commnist version of nationalism?
but otherwise the standard appeal for the organization of a joint front to include
the petty bourgeoisie and amall capitalists and landowners, as well as Communists,
Socialists, and organized workers and farmers. On February 9 the Kyōsanto announced
its Central Committee decision and the Sanbetsu issued an appeal for the formation
of a democratic peoples' front; on February 10, Sanbeteu officers visited Commumist
Diet members and Socialist members of the left-wing May Society to request the
early formation of a democratic front; and on February 1l, at its fourth session,
the fermer-labor round-table conference decided to organize a new farmer-labor
counc11.3
In mid-March the Kyōsantō again approached the Shakaitō with a proposal for a
united front to have three objectives: thorough democratization of Japan; stabilization
and improvement of the workers' livelihood; and complete independence for Japan. As
the Kyōsantō undoubtedly anticipated, however, in view not only of the past policy
of the Shakaitő but also of more recent statements by such left-wing leaders as Kato
and Suzuki that Socialist-Commmist cooperation was impossible, the Shakaito quickly
Attention, therefore, continued to be focused on winning
1. Kyodo release, December 29, 1947; Tokyo Times, December 30, 1947; Akahata,
January 3, 1948.
2.
See above, p. 118.
3.
Asah1 Shimbun, February 11, 1948; Mimpo, February 12, 1948; Akahata,
February 14 and 17, 1948.
4.
Mainich1 Shimbum, January 10, 1948; Mimpo, January 19, 1948; Jiji Press releases,
March 15 and 16, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, March 16, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 577 === (confidence 0.98)
- 250 -
RESTRICTED
the cooperation and support of those Socialists farthest to the loft, who were
growing increasingly dissatisfied with the concessions required by Shakaitō
participation in coalition governments.
At the beginning of May a number of conferences were held, attended by trade-
union leaders drawn largely from Sanbetsu affiliates, left-wing Socialists of the
Kuroda faction, and independent members of the House of Councillors who owed their
olection to trade-union support. It was decided at these meetings that protection
of the workers' interests required closer liaison than had existed in the paet
between the unions and those members of the Diet who represented the workers
and farmers. On this basis, a new group, the Rōnō Renrakukai (Labor-Farmer
Liaison Council) was to be established. Socialist sponsors of this group included
lower house members TSUJI Taminosuke, TOKORO Makoto, AKAMATSU Isamu, SHIMAGAMI
Zengoro, TAKATSU Seido, KURODA Hisao, and OKADA Haruo and upper house members
1
KIMURA Kihachiro, SUZUKI Seiichi, UCHIMURA SeiJ1, CHIBA Makoto, and HORI Makoto.
To both the Shakaitō and the Sōdomei the proposed group was an object of
suspicion -- a transparent devic• for the extension of Communist influence.
Nevertheless, relations within the Shakaito were sufficiently exacerbated by a
revived dispute over the budget and trade-union interest in the new group was
sufficiently strong to indicate the advisability of a cautious approach. The
Shakaitō, therefore, confined itself to insisting that those of its Diet members
who wished to participate in the Renraku do so on an unofficial basis and that
they make every effort to prevent it from becoming the nucleus of a united front
movement. Even this limited approbation, moreover, was contingent upon acceptance
of the Shakaitō-Sodomei demand that Renraku membership be limited to Diet members
1.
Seij1 Shimbun, May 4, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, May 5, 1948; Mimpo, May 7, 1948;
Yomiuri Shimbun, May 4, 1948; J1j1 Pres8 release, May 12, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 578 === (confidence 0.99)
-251-
RESTRICTED
actually affiliated with the unions -- a condition eliminating all Communist Diet
membere except KIMuRA Sakae. After some delay brought about by unsuccessful
Kyosanto efforts to extend membership to anyone connected with the labor or farmer
movements, the Renraku was formally inaugurated on June 9, adopting at its
inaugural meeting resolutions opposing the new 3,79l-yen average wage for government
workers proposed by the cabinet in May in the draft budget for fiscal 1948,
reductions in appropriatione for the new educational system, revisione in the Local
Autonomy Law, and reduction of government personnel.
1
C. The Budget Controveray and the Split in the Shakaito
1.
The War Bond Interest Fayment (uestion. The left-wing Socialist vote against
the supplementary budget that had precipitated the fall of the Katayama cabinet in
February had by no means ended the controversy over budget issues. The long overdue
budget for fiscal 1948 had still to be agreed upon by the cabinet, submitted to the
Diet, and accepted by that body; controveray emong end within the coalition parties
as to the principles upon which the budget was to be drawn up continued unabated;
end the war bond interest payment question remained essentially unsettled.
Basic to the dispute over the last questfon was the fact that the Democrats,
despite commitments made to insure Socialist participation in the cabinet, were
fundamentally opposed to the entire principle of suepension. They, therefore,
argued that the agreement to establish a committee to study the interest question
that had been reached before the organization of the cabinet meant that the question
of whether or not to suspend the payments would be studied anew. The Shakait5, on
the other hand, under pressure from the May Society, which argued that defeat on this
ssue would inevitably lead to Socialist defeats on ther issues as well, and from
1.
Yomiuri Shimbun, May 14 and 22, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, May 17 and June 10, 1948;
Asahi Shimbun, May 19 and June 3, 1948: Jij1 Press releases, May 21 and 25, 1948,
June 10, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 579 === (confidence 0.99)
- 252 -
RESTRICTED
the leftist dominated Political Research Committee, insisted that the agreement had
rested on the assumption that interest payments would be suspended and that the only
remaining issue was the method by which suspension was to be carried out.
The dispute continued throughout March and April, with May Society support for
an appropriation of about 21 million yen in the April supplementary budget for
interest payments insured only by a commitment that no such appropriations would
appear in the budget for fiscal 1948.2 A crisis developed early in May when the
Democrats at a party convention voted opposition to suspension and were immediately
countered by Shakaitō Central Executive Committee resolutions reaffirming the
Socialist demand for suspension and calling for the dissolution of all party
factions in the interests of greater unity of action.3
At thia Juncture, Democratic Chief Cabinet Secretary TOMABECHI Gizo came forward
with a compromise proposal for the suspension of interest payments for a period of
one year. Although opposed by the right-wing Democratic Taiyokai faction and by
leftists in the Shakaitō led by SUZUKI Mosaburo and KUMURA Kihachiro, the proposal
was ultimately accepted by the coalition parties and approved by the cabinet on May 14.
2. Dispute over Budget Provisions. Although the war bond interest payments issue
was thus temporarily disposed of, prospects for an early passage of the budget continued
to be unpromising. On May 26 a draft budget for 1948 was approved by the cabinet, but
1t wes quite evident, in the face of ob jections by Shakaito elements to many of its
provisions, Democratic opposition to Socialist revision proposals, and Democratic
1. J1j1 Press releases, March 16, 23, and 31, 1948, Apr11 6, 1948; Asahi Shimbun,
March 25, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, March 31, 1948, May 1, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun,
May 2, 1948.
2.
Nippon Keiza1 Shimbun, March 30, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, Apr11 1, 1948.
3.
Jiji Press releases, May 5 aud 6, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, May 7, 1948; Mainich1
Shimbun, May 7, 1948.
4.
Kyodo releases, May 9 and 16, 1948; J1j1 Press releases, May 10 and 12, 1948;
Yomiuri Shimbun, May 11, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, May 12, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun,
May 16, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 580 === (confidence 0.98)
- 253 -
RESTRICTED
Liberal determination to make the most of the opportunities presented by disputes
between the major government parties, that securing its passage by the Diet would be
a long and difficult process.
A good deal of Socialist discontent with the budget revolved, as in the past,
around proposals for an increase in transportation and communication rates. As
drafted by the cabinet, the budget called for a 350 percent increase in passenger
fares and freight rates and a 400 percent increase in postal rates. To this the
Socialists, particularly the May Society adherents, opposed a demand for a 250
percent increase in passenger fares and a 300 percent increase in postal rates. In
addition, Socialists of the Kuroda faction insisted that an average wage level for
government workers of 4,500 yen be subetituted for the 3,791-yen average proposed in
the budget, while more moderate leftists of the Suzuki faction were willing to
postpone this issue in the interests of passing a budget. Socialists in general,
moreover, objected to the sweeping character of the sales tax proposed in the budget
and were determined to secure an increase in educational appropriations. The
revenue losses that would result from acceptance of these demands, the Socialists
proposed, should be made up through imposition of higher taxes on large incomes and a
2
new tax on surplus profits.
3. Effects of the Nishio Scandal. As three-party and interparty discussions
continued on these issues with minor concessions and little constructive result, the
outbreak of the Nishio scandal further confused the political picture and postponed
decision on the budget. This scandal, the first of the major post-surrender in
which leading Socialists wore prominently involved, revolved around charges that
1. The Demooratic Liberal Party was inaugurated on March 15, 1948 by the Liberal
Party, which was officially dissolved at that time. It was joined by a number
of former Democrats who had previously seceded from their party.
2.
Yomiur1 Shimbun, June 6, 19, 20, and 22, 1948; Kyodo roloases, June 8, 16, and
19, 1948; Mainich1 Shimbun, June 12 and 24, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, June 18, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 581 === (confidence 0.98)
- 254 -
RESTRICTED
Nishio, in his capacity as secretary general of the Shakaitō, had, before the 1947
elections, received from a group of building contractors contributions of half a
million yen that, in violation of Administrative Oriinance Number 328, he had
Although the Japanese courts subsequently accepted Nighio's contention that
the contributions had been made to him as an individual and not as a party officer,
thereby aquitting him of charges of violation of the ordinance and of perjury,
Socialist reactions to Nishio's admission that he had accepted the funds derived
their violence from issues that had little to do with the legal aspects of the
case. In the firat place, the fact that Nishio had accepted money from a group of
building contractors, who in this case were simultaneously subsidizing conservative
candidates and who as a class have been associated with the worst contract labor
practices and more recently with exteneive black-merketing, was regarded as bringing
discredit upon a working class party. Secondly, the fact that Nishio distributed the
funds he received only to right-wing Socialists added to the growing irritation of
the leftists with what they regarded as his unduly conservative policies, a situation
that Nishio's admission that he had distributed the money in this fashion at the
2
urging of the contributors did nothing to improve.
Shakaito embarrassment over these revelations in the midst of complicated and
delicate budget negotiations was, therefore, inteneified by the leftists' obvious
intention of utilizing the situation to destroy the power in the party of a leader
who, since the departure of Hirano, had become the focus of their opposition and
discontent. On June 9 a group of about forty Socialist Diet members led by
SASAkI Kozo decided to organize a reform movement in the party. The next day thie
group published a demand that Nishio resign from the cabinet, that his case be
1. Kyodo release, Jume 1, 1948.
2. Yomiuri Shimbun, Jume 3, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, June 6, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 582 === (confidence 0.99)
-255-
RESTRICTED
thoroughly investigated, and that a general party house cleaning be carried out.
Socialist rightiste soon responded with a demand that disciplinary action be
taken against the members of the reform group, who, they charged, were acting as
tools of the Kyōsantō in its efforts to bring about the overthrow of the cabinet.
Centriet party leaders like Katayama and Asanuma, while in sympathy with the left-
wing attitude toward Nishio, were primarily concerned with securing the passage of
the budget and were therefore unwilling to press for Nishio's resignation because
of the repercussions it might have on the general political situation and
undoubtedly also because of recognition of Nishio's unquestioned capacity for
achieving agreement with the other coalition parties. For these reasons, and with
the support of the moderate leftists, Katayama urged that the Shakaito take no
action until the House of Representatives Illegal Property Transactions Investigation
Committee had completed its investigation of the case and that meamwhile the Socialists
1
unite in attempting to secure an acceptable budget as quickly as possible.
The need for agreement within the Shakaito was intensified by the increasing
imminence of a Democratic-Liberal motion of non-confidence in Nishio to be proposed
in the House of Representatives session of June 24. Even within the ranks of reform
group leftists there was no agreement on the position to be taken in the non-
confidence vote, and it was not until the very day that the motion was to be
introduced that the Shakaito Central Executive Committee agreed that the party should
vote against it and Katayama was able to secure the agreement of most members of the
reform group to this policy. Despite the agreement, however, when the vote was taken
twelve left-wing Socialists were absent -- a situation presaging what was to be
2
similar obduracy on the budget issue.
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, June 10, 12, 13, and 17, 1948; Jiji Press releases, June 11, 12,
16, 17, and 18, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, June 15, 1948; Shakai Shimbun, June 16, 1948;
Yomiur1 Shimbun, June 18 and 20, 1948.
2.
Jij1 Press releases, Jume 21, 22, and 24, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, June 22, 1948;
Mainichi Shimbun, June 25, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, Jume 26, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 583 === (confidence 0.99)
-256 -
RESTRICTED
4. Organization of the Orthodox Diet Group. Meamwhile a series of three-party
meetings had been making some progress on the budget question. On June 30, at a
final meeting, representatives of the three parties agreed on a 255-percent inorease
in railway passenger fares, a decrease in the number of essential items to be
subject to the sales tax, an increase in the levies on higher-bracket taxpayers,
and an increase in the appropriations for education, disaster relief, and repatriate
Notwithstanding the fact that the Shakaito had achieved some of its aims in the
budget discussions, a small group of leftists remained intransigant and, with the
enthusiastic support of the Sanbetsu, the Zenkankō, and the Remraku, clung to its
determination to vote against the budget. Three lower house Socialists voted against
the budget in the Budget Committee, thus bringing about its defeat in that body;
twelve lower house Socialists caet a negative ballot and four were absent when the
plenary session overruled the committee by a vote of 217 to 176. In the House of
passed the budget the Diet adjourned, ironically enough without acting on the bill
for suapension of interest payments on wartime bonds, which had been shelved in
the upper house.
With the ad journment of the Diet, the Shakaitō was confronted with a major
problem of party house cleaning. On the one hand there was still intense hostility
toward Nishio, who, despite his resignation from the cabinet on July 6 and his
indictment on July 7, remained a member of the Shakaito Central Executive Committee.
On the other hand there was an obvious need, for the sake of party prestige and
1.
Mainichi Shimbun, June 24 and 30, 1948; Kyodo reloase, June 29, 1948; J1j1
Press release, Jume 30, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, July 1, 1948.
2.
Kyodo releases, July 1 and 3, 1948; Asah1 Shimbun, July 1 end 2, 1948;
Yomiuri Shimbun, July 3 and 4, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, July 5, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 584 === (confidence 0.99)
-257-
RESTRICTED
discipline, to take some action against Kuroda and his followers.
The Kuroda group, vociferous in its demands that disciplinary action be taken
against Nishio, was quick to deny that the vote against the budget had violated
party discipline, arguing rather that the compromises accepted in the budget were
contrary to Shakaito policy. In eny case, the extreme leftists argued, the question
of the validity of their action and of disciplinary measures was one that could
be decided only by the Central Committee or by a party convention. The moderate
leftists, sympathetic to the demand that some action be taken against Nishio and
that expuleions from the party be as limited as possible, urged that the first step
taken be the removal of Niehio from the Central Executive Committee and that thereafter
only uroda, Nakahara, Okada, Tamai, and Ota be expelled from the party, with
disciplinary action against the other dissidents confined to deprivation of party
office. For this position they received the support of important centrist elements
1
in the party.
On July 7 the Shakaito Central Executive Committee created a special subcommittee
to consider the question of party discipline, and on the same day the subcommittee
arrived at a decision that was immodiately accepted by the Central Executive Committee.
Under this decision, Niahio was to be asked to resign from the Central Executive
Comittee; KURODA Hisao, NAKAHARA Kenji, OKADA Haruo, TAMAI Yukichi, MATSUTANI
Tenkoku, and OTA Tenrei were expelled; and the other dissidents were to be suspended
from party office until their cases had been fully investigated. Two days later
ton of Kuroda's followers -- TATE Shunzo, SAKAI Kazuo, ISHINO Hisao, YAMANAKA Hiroshi,
TOKORO Makoto, KIMURA Kihachiro, SUZUKI Seiichi, CHIBA Shin, HORI Makoto, and
MIZUHASHI Fujisaku, who had already Joined with the expelled group in organizing the
1. Mainich1 Shimbun, July 5, 1948; Yomiur1 Shimbun, July 6, 1948; Kyodo releases,
July 6 and 7. 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 585 === (confidence 0.99)
-258-
RESTRICTED
Shakaito Orthodox Diet Members' Association -- resigned from the party, thereby
reducing Shakaito lower house strength to lll.1 Denying any intention of organizing
a new party, the Orthodox group declared that it would seek the purification of the
The first impact of the expulsions and secessions was felt in the traditionally
leftist Shakaito Youth Department, which held its national convention in mid-July.
The convention adopted a resolution calling for the expulsion of Nishio from the
Shakaito but failed to adopt one demanding the reinstatement of the dissidents,
confining itself instead, by a vote of 215 to 213, to calling for speedy convocation
of the party's Central Committee. The defeated Kuroda supporters thereupon withdrew
from the convention and proceeded to organize a committee to purify the Youth
Department, while the remaining delegates elected moderate leftist TANAKA Orinoshin
chairman of the Department to succeed the expelled Okada.3
D. The Fall of the Cabinet
1. Shakaitō Discussion of Diet Dissolution. The ad journment of the Diet left
the Shakaitō reduced in size and largely frustrated in its attempts to impose
Socialist policy upon its conservative colleagues. Under these circumstances it
was inevitable that left-wing opposition to further cooperation with the Demoerats
should increase in strength. In mid-July, however, the leftist argument received
unexpected support from the leader of the party when, on a provincial speaking tour,
Katayama stated his belief that the three-party coalition had virtually come to an
end and that the House of Representatives should be dissolved at a special session
1.
ARAHATA Kanson had already resigned from the Shakaitō in protest against the bug
budget compromise but did not associate himself with the Orthodor group.
2.
Kyodo releases, July 7, 8, 10, and 13, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, July 9, 1948;
Mainichi Shimbun, July 11, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, July 12, 1948.
3.
Jiji Press releases, July 15, 16, and 19, 1948; Nippon Keizai Shimbun, July 18,
1948; Tokyo Shimbun, July 20, 1948.
4.
Yukan Kyoto, July 13, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, July 18, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun,
Ju1y 19, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 586 === (confidence 0.99)
- 259 -
RESTRICTED
Katayama's demand was taken up immediately by Kato, Suzuki, Matsumoto, and
other leftists. This group not only supported the dissolution proposal but also
added a proposal of its own that the Shakaitō should withdraw from the cabinet
before the special session so that during the diet discussions the Socialists could
assume an opposition position and make clear the differences on policy that separated
them from the Democrats. In this way, it may be assumed, the leftists hoped to
disassociate their party as far as possible from the policies of the Ashida cabinet,
perhaps gain election advantages from throwing the onus of cabinet failures on the
Democrats, and, in eny case, establish an obstacle to possible post-election renewal
of proposals for a coalition with the Democrats. Socialist rightists, on the other
hand, apparently taken completely by surprise by Katayama's statement, were vigorously
opposed both to dissolution and to withdrawal from the cabinet. Led by Matsuoka,
Mizutani, Morito, and Nishio, this group pointed out that a special session was
required to discuss a new wage base and a supplementary budget as well as to force
upon the House of Councillors resumption of discussions of the bill for suspension
of interest payments on wartime bonds. Under no circumstances, they argued, should
dissolution be proposed until these issues had been settled, and Matsuoka went so
far as to suggest that if anything were to replace the existing government it should
be a four-party coalition. Katayama, supported by Yonekubo, stood firm on the demand
for dissolution but was hesitant to join the leftists in supporting withdrawal from
the cabinet as well -- partly on the theory that the Shakaito might derive some
advantage from going before the electorate as a government party. On July 22, a
further element of uncertainty entered the discussions when General MacArthur
addressed a letter to Premier Ashida calling for the revision of the National Public
1
Service Law.
1. Kyodo release, July 20, 1948; J1j1 Press releases, July 20 and 24, 1948; Yomiur1
Shimbun, July 20 and 22, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, July 21, 1948; Mainichi Shimbum,
July 21, 1948; Tokyo Shimbun, July 22, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 587 === (confidence 0.98)
- 260 -
RESTRICTED
2. Effects of SCAP Demands for Revision of the National Public Service Law
a. Background. When the budget was passed early in July it made provision
for a monthly wage level of 3,791 yen for government workers. The federation of
government workers' unions, the Zenkanko, however, hed never accepted this figure,
pressing instead for an average wage level of 5,200 yen tax free. Dissatisfaction
with the wage level as established in the budget had been partially responsible for
the events that resulted in the expulsion of Kuroda and his followers from the
Shakaito, and on July 4 the moderate loftists who had voted for the budget demanded
an increase in the wage level to 4,500 yen.
On July 7 the Zenkanko submitted its dispute with the government to the Central
Labor Relations Committee for mediation -- a step that would have given most Zenkankō
member unions legal freedom to strike after thirty days. Any plens that the Zenkankō
may have had for actually calling a strike, however, were put to an end by the SCAP
letter of July 22 and the government ordinance that followed it on July 31.
The SCAP letter in effect, recommended that the National Public Service Law,
enforced on July 1, be amended to deny the right to strike to all government
employees. This right, nowhere mentioned in the National Public Service Law, had
hitherto been enjoyed with certain limitations under existing labor legislation by
all but about 20 percent -- the so-called administrative category -- of the government's
approximately 2.7 million employees. The text of the lotter left in doubt the status
of collective bargaining in the government service but indicated by its terms a
probable SCAp intention that in the future colloctive bargaining, hitherto employed
throughout the government service, should be limited to employees of the government
1. Government corporations. Existing Kodan are concerned primarily with the
distribution and allocation of essential commodities.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 588 === (confidence 0.99)
- 261 -
RESTRICTED
Working closely with SCAP officials and basing their operations on the contention
that, in effect, the July 22 letter was a directive, the cabinet moved quickly to put
the terms of the letter into effect. On July 24, the government withdrew its
representatives from the Central Labor Relations Committee's mediation proceedings,
and on July 31, after some delay occasioned by Shakaitō reservations, it issued an
ordinance denying the right of all government employees -- national or local -- to
bargain collectively or to resort to strikes and other acts of dispute and providing
penal measures for the punishment of violations. With this act, preparation of
amendments to the National Public Service Law for submission to the Diet became the
cabinet's next order of business.
b. Repercussions on the left. Reactions to the new situation emong
government workers and interested groups on the left were to a large extent conditioned
by the part played by SCAP in bringing it about. Within this framework, however,
the new developments, while leading organized labor in general to seek to protect
its legal position, also intensified trends already in existence. The Communists
and their supporters in the union movement seized the opportunity to intensify their
growing and increesingly militant opposition to the government and to expand the
campaign for the organization of a democratic front. Anti-Communist elements,
meanwhile, were given a further stimulus to organization for the purpose of
eliminating Communist leadership from the trade-union movement.
After an initial period of some hesitancy the Communists and their supporters
in the Zenkankō and such completely Communist-dominated unions as that of the
communications workers entered upon a campaign of unremitting opposition to the new
principles upon which revisions of the National Public Service Law were to be based.
Arguing that the government in its ordinance of July 31 had gone far beyond the
requirements of the SCAp letter and had indeed acted in an unconstitutional fashlon,
Commmunist elements encouraged militant unions and locals to resort to widespread
RESTRICTED

=== Page 589 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26e -
REBARICTD
absenteeim and scattered local acts of dispute, which in turn led the government
to retaliate in the form of arrests and convictions under the penal provisions of
the ordinance.
Arrests under the ordinance provided further stimulus to the organization of
the so-called Leagues to Defend Democracy, which, under Commmist auspices and in
line with the new progrem of defending racial independence, had been set up in
various prefectures before the issuance of the SCAP letter. In mid-August a
campaign was undertaken to conbine these groups into a mass organization to which
the adherence of trade unions, political parties, cultural societies, and
interested individuals would be invited. These followed a series of preparatory
committee meetings and mass rallies in which conepicuous roles were played not only
by the Commmists, the leftist trade unions, and representatives of the Renraku, but
also by such well-known front organizations as the Jiyu Hōso Dan (Free Bar Association),
the Minshushugi Bunka Remme1 (Democratic Cultural League), and the Minahu Shugi
Kagakusha Kyōkai (Democratic Scientists' Association). Far from confining themselves
to an attack on alterations in the legal status of government workers, these meetings
ranged the entire field of the Commnist racial front line, calling simultaneously
for opposition to revision of the National Public Service Law; racial independence;
the abolition of the colonial system; an early peace treaty and withdrawal of the
occupation forces; protection of civil liberties, democratic culture, and minimum
With the Commumists and their followers were combining unqualified opposition
to the revision of the National Public Service Law with attempts to utilize
proposals for revision for the furtherance of popular front activities, anti-
Commmiste, attributing responsibility for the situation that had produced the
1. J1ji Press releases, July 16 and August 12, 1948; Main1chi Shimbun, August 8,
1948; Mimpo, August 14, 1948; Akahata, August 17, 19, 22, and 29, September 12,
1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 590 === (confidence 0.98)
- 263 -
RESTRICTED
SCAP letter to Commmist abuse of labor rights, were equally active in combining
efforts to preserve certain of the legal rights of government workers with an
intenaification of the campaign against Communist penetration of the trade unions.
At the beginning of August the leaders of the Mindō, the anti-Commmist group in
the Sanbetsu, announced their opposition to the methods being used by the Sanbetau
and the Communist-led unions in opposing revision of the National Public Service
Law, committed themselves to fighting unfavorable revisions by legal and demooratic
means, and declared their readiness to join with the Södomei in organizing a new anti-
Communist federation. In mid-August the same group clarified its position on revision
of the National Public Service Law, calling for the preservation of both strike and
collective bargaining rights for employees of government enterprises and civil
servants in the so-called operating categories and retention of the right to organize
and engage in collective bargaining for administrative employees. Shortly thereafter
the Sodōmei expressed its position, which, although more moderate than that of the
Mindo, demanded the exclusion from the public service category -- and hence from
restrictions on the right to organize, bargaining collectively, and strike -- of
employees of the government railroads, commumications, and tobacco enterprises;
operating employees of public entities engaged in the operation of transportation,
sanitation, and waterworks facilities; government-employed common labor; and employees
By the end of August, the anti-Communist movement in the trade unions had been
joined by a new group, led by eleven members of the Zenkankō's Central Executive
Committee who announced their intention of eliminating extreme leftist influence from
1. Kyodo releases, July 27, August 2 and 22, 1948; Jiji Press releases, August 1
and 2, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, August 3, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, August 16, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 591 === (confidence 0.99)
- 264-
RESTRICTED
the trade unions, respecting the principles of the SCAP letter, opposing the attempts
of bureaucrats to utilize the SCAP letter for the suppression of labor, and seeking
the maintenance of the right to organize and bargain collectively for government
workers. By September attempts initiated by the Sodōmei in July to bring together
into one organization all anti-Communist unions and anti-Communist factions within
unions were bearing fruit, and, on September 20, 400 representatives of thirteen
organizations met to prepare for the formation of a united front of democratic trade
unions that would oppose the extreme left-wing trend of the Zenroren and Sanbetsu
and fight for the right of government workers to organize and bargain collectively.
At the end of the month, a high point of the anti-Communist campaign was reached
with the reversal of previous trends in the Kokutetsu in the election of a Central
Executive Committee completely dominated by democratization elements and the
1
overwhelming defeat by the union convention of a number of Communist-inspired motions.
c. The position of the Shakaitō. The SCAP letter of July 22 placed the
Shakaitō in a singularly embarrassing position. On the one hand KATo Kanju as Labor
Minister had repeatedly announced his determination to oppose any attempts to revise
Japan's labor laws and, while Nishio and other members of the right wing had tended
to dismiss these statements as en expression of Kato's personal views, Kato's position
had ultimately been supported by the Shakaitō Central Executive Committee, well aware
other hand, in the situation created by the SCAp letter, a Socialist decision to
resign from the cabinet or to call for an immediate dissolution of the Diet could be
interpreted only as an expression of opposition to the wishes of the Supreme Commander.
After some initial hesitation, therefore, the Shakaito decided to postpone the
1. J1j1 Press releases, July 12, August 20, September 24, 25, 28, and 30, October 2,
1948; Rodo, September 17, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, September 21, October 1 and 4,
1948; Kyodo releases, September 25, 29, and 30, October 3 and 4, 1948; Asahi
Shimbum, October 3, 1948.
2.
J1j1 Pross release, May 6, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 592 === (confidence 0.99)
-265 -
RESTRICTED
dissolution issue until after the National Public Service Law had been amended by
the Diet and to remain in the cabinet in order to protect the interests of the
workere in revision discussions.
1
With this decision the Shakaito embarked simultaneously upon two courses of
action. The most pressing issue -- the preparation of a Socialist position on
revision of the National Public Service Law -- was undertaken by the Political
Research Committee. At the same time the Committee began to formulate new policies
on inflation, wages and prices, and land reform to be presented to a Shakaitō
Central Committee meeting in the fall and, failing acceptance by the coalition
government, to form the basis for a move to dissolve the Diet. On August 13, the
Political Research Committee completed its first task, and a few days later, after
some modifications had been made by Shakaito ministers, the plan was presented to
the cabinet.
The Political Research Committee plan, as modified, contained both a general
statement of the Shakaitō position with regard to revision and specific proposals
for revision. In general, the Shakaitō declared that it would fight against any
attempts by the conservatives to utilize the necessity for revision to embark upon
an offensive directed against the rights of labor; that since Kyosanto labor policies
had led to proposals for revision, government workers' trade unione should govern
their future activities accordingly; and that, since the government must be held
responsible for failing to curb inflation and to provide adequate living standards
for the workers, the new series of measures to be proposed by the Shakaito with
regard to inflation, the wage level, and prices must be discussed in conjunction with
revision proposals. With regard to the specific terms of revision the Socialists
proposed that the distinction between operating and administrative employees be
retained, with the right of operating employees to organize, bargain collectively,
1. Kyodo releases, July 26 and 27, 1948; Asahi Shimbun, July 27, 1948; Mainichi
Shimbun, July 31, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, August 4, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 593 === (confidence 0.99)
-266-
RESTRICTED
and strike recognized in principle, subject to limitations on the exercise of these
rights in the light of the status of the workers as publio employees and the public
character of the enterprises concerned; agroements alrealy conoluded dealing vith
oconomic and welfare matters remain valid for the future; the soope of the regular
civil service1 be carefully defined and limited to a minimm; reorganization of
government enterprises be studied; and the administering authority for the National
2
Publio Service Law be thoroughly democratized.
While discussions of revision in the cabinet and between the cabinet and SCAP
representatives became increasingly time-coneuming and less favorable to the ultimate
achievement of Socialist demands, controveray within the Shakaito over Diet dissolution
and withdrawal from the cabinet contimued along the lines already established.. Late
in September the Showa Denko scandal gave the Left an opportumity to insist on cabinet
resignation for reasons entirely extraneous to the National Public Service Law and yet
to free the Shakaito, to some extent at least, from responsibility for seemingly
unavoidable revisions unfavorable to organized labor.
3. The Showa Denko Scandal. The Showa Denko scandal revolved around accusations
that Democrat KURUSU Takeo, Director of the Economic Stabilization Board and Minister
without Portfolio in the Ashida cabinet, had used his position as Finance Minister
in the Katayama cabinet to obtain excessive loans for the Showa Electric Company,
the president of which, who owed his position to Kurusu's influence, had then made
heavy contributions to the Democratic Party. Allegedly involved with Kurusu in a
complicated series of deals and negotiations were NIShIo Suehiro and a number of
other politicians and businesamen.
1. I.e., government employees subject to the provisions cf the National Public
Service Law.
2.
Jij1 Press roloases, August 13 and 18, 1948; Yomiuri Shimbun, August 14, 1948;
Asahi Shimhun, August 18, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, August 18, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 594 === (confidence 0.98)
-267 -
RESTRICTED
At a cabinet meeting on October 1, shortly after Kurusu's arrest, Nomizo
demanded that the government resign en bloc in order to assume responsibility for
the involvement of leading members of the government parties in a scandal of
major proportions. Although the rightists favored the adoption of a wait-and-
see policy, the leftists backed Nomizo's demand for an immediate resignation and
prepared to present concurrent demands for resignation of the cabinet, dissolution
of the Diet, and the expulsion of Nishio to the Shakaito Central Committee
sessions scheduled to open on October 7. On that day, however, the issue was
forced when both Kurusu and Nishio admitted to having received money from the
The cabinet resigned the same day; a government was ultimately
formed by the Democratic Liberals; and the Shakaito returned to the opposition
and to the prospect of a general election in the near future.
Kyodo releases, October 1 and 6, 1948; Jij1 Press releases, October 1 and 6,
1948; Asah1 Shimbun, October 2 and 8, 1948; Mainichi Shimbun, October 4, 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 595 === (confidence 0.99)
- 268-
RESTRICTED
CONCLUSIONS
The left-wing movement in Japan has passed through two phases since the beginning
of the occupation -- an initial period of marked growth in a new atmosphere of
political freedom and a second period, after the elections of-l947, when the Socialist
Party entered the government and, perhaps prematurely, assumed the responsibilities of
this growth. The post-surrender left-wing revival began in an environment that was
in many ways new and unprecedented. Full legal freedom and the support of highest
authority for many of the reforms long fruitlessly urged by the Left represented only
one side of the picture, on the other was the receptivity of the Japanese people to
new doctrines -- a reaction against the past induced by the shock of defeat and
probably a good deal stronger and more widespread than any previous similar reaction
in Japen.
Within the Left, the fruits of the new situation were initially enjoyed principally
by the Socialists, whose collectivist economic program was coupled with acceptance of
the democratic principles urged by the occupation authorities and who demonstrated
their new strength both in the trade-union field and, in the political arena, in the
elections of 1946. The Communists, on the other hand, attaining their greatest
political success in the very earliest period of the occupation, made an extremely
unimpressive showing in the elections as compared with the Socialists. The gains
of the Communists, despite traditional Japanese hostility to and fear of Russia and
reiterated expressions of opposition to Commumism by representatives of the United
States, were nevertheless not inconsiderable in comparison with their prewer position,
and weakmess at the polls could be balanced by Commmist strength in the rapidly
growing trade-union movement.
With the electione of 1947 the Teft faced new opportunities and new dangere.
For the Socialista, election victories had created an opportumity to participate in
RESTRICTED

=== Page 596 === (confidence 0.98)
- 269 -
RESTRICTED
the government of Japan and to give their theories practical application. The.
distribution of political power, however, made cooperation with conservative parties
inevitable and thus accentuated the danger that existing internal schimm would widen
under the stress of the compromises that successful coalition would constantly
require. Economic factors, on the other hand, not only placed strict limitations
on the potential accompliahments of any government but also almost inevitably
threatened any party in power with the prospect that the longer it eld office the
greater would be its umpopularity and its responsibility in the eyes of the masses
for unremitting hardships.
The Communists proved no stronger politically in 1947 than in 1946 and by this
demonstration of weakmess, if for no other reason, lost the support of all but a few
left-wing Socialists for the united front that had been a Kyosantō objective since
the revival of the party. Opportunities for the Commmists were not entirely lacking,
however. Controversies within the Shakaito over the compromises of coalition could
be utilized to revive the interest of the party's left-wing in united action with
the Communists, and the compromises themselves could be attacked as betrayals of the
working class; the possibility that some success by the moderate left in solving Japan's
problems would undermine what popular support existed for the extreme loft could be
balanced against the existence of problems of such magnitude that failure, redounding
to the advantage of political ertremists, was infinitely more likely than success;
and, meanwhile, Commmmist strength in trade unions and farmers' organizations could
be used both to create difficulties for the government and to bolster argments for
subordination of left-wing doctrinal controversy in the interests of proletarian
unity.
At the boginning of 1949, after a year and a half in office, the Shakaitǒ would
appear to have suffered much more from the disadvantages of shared power in a time
of acute crisis than it has gained from the opportumities of political loadership.
Certainly, in facing the electorate once again it can neither offer the possible
RESTRICTED

=== Page 597 === (confidence 0.97)
- 270 -
RESTRICTED
dvantages of the untried nor claim, on the basis of the record, that the Socialists
have at least left Japan better than they found it. It has to add to the claim of
1
experience in office that it previously lacked only the dubious argument that
without Socialist participation in the cabinet the situation might have been worse
and that the weakmesses of government from May 1947 to October 1948 arose not from'
the weaknesses of the Shakaitō per se but from ite failure to control the majority
that would have made possible a genuine Socialist administration.
Added to the disadvantages to the Shakaitō resulting from identification with
eighteen months of economic hardship, political futility, and public scandal will
be those that result from the consequences of an internal disunity that was only
implicit in 1947. In 1949 the Shakaitō will compete for popular support not only
with the conservative parties and the Communists but elso with two of its own
offshoots, the Kakushin Shakaitō on the right and the Rōdōsha Nōmintō on the left.
The Kakushin Shakaitō, in view of the negligible effects of the schiam that
produced it on the Shakaitō's local branches and of its inability to wean the one
mass group under its influence, the Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai, completely away from its
ties with the Shakaito, shows little prospect of constituting a serious threat to
the parent party. The Rodosha Nomintō, on the other hand, appears likely to cut
more significantly into the potential non-Communist left-wing vote. Such evidence
as is now available indicates that the organization of the Rōdōsha Nōminto has had
much more serious repercussions in the local branches of the Shakaitō than did the
earlier right-wing schism. A number of the leaders of the new party have importent
ties with the trade-union movement, where Socialist eleventh-hour rejection of the
amended National Public Service Law may not prove as influential as what previously
appeared to be rather complete, albeit uncomfortable, willingness to accept the
inevitable. Equally important support for the new party at the expense of the
Shakaitō may come from ties in the Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, where the group that has
RESTRICTED

=== Page 598 === (confidence 0.99)
-271-
RESTRICTED
neither openly avowed Commmiam nor been willing to break completely with the
Commnists has consistently held the balance of power between Kyosantō elements
and their opponents. Finally, although the Rōdōsha Nōmintō has been careful to
disclaim formal ties with the Kyosanto and the Kyōsantō has tended to reprove the
leaders of the new party for discarding the opportunity to purify and influence the
Shakaitō by their secession, it seems unlikely, in view of the past activities of
Kuroda and his followers and the opportuniem of the Commmists, that these publicly
expressed attitudes will be an important deterrent to joint action.
Even though the Kyosanto can expect to benefit from the latest split in
Socialist ranks, whether through outright oooperation with the Rodosha Nōminto
or merely through the accentuation of differences within the non-Communist left,
the Communists suffer from serious weaknesses of their own. That the Japanese
people, in general, appear to be moving toward the right rather than the left at
this time need not affect the ability of the Kyosanto to strengthen itself at the
expense of other left-wing groupings. A more serious threat to the Commmist position
is the growing anti-Communiem in labor organizations. This anti-Communism has not
yet become sufficiently strong either to wrest from the Commmmists control of any
group in which they had succeeded in gaining complete authority or to end decisively
conflicts in organizations such as the Nippon Nomin Kumiai where unresolved contention
has long existed. Nor can trade-union anti-Commmism, particularly in its present
uncoordinated state, necessarily be expected to prevent a possible rise in the
Communist vote in the coming elections. More important is the potential threat to
the Communist ability to control the activities of mass organizations strategically
located in the Japanese economy -- an area of Communist activity of much greater
significance to long-term Kyosanto prospects than Commmist representation in the
Diet, which, even should it be increased in 1949, will remain insignificant. The
success achieved by the Commmiste in combating this trend will depend to a very
RESTRICTED

=== Page 599 === (confidence 0.97)
- 272 -
RESTRICTED
important extent upon policies pursued by future Japanese goverments. Should the
trend toward conservatiar now apparent carry Japan to the extreme right and be
reflected in seriously disadvantageous revision of labor legielation and major
reversals of the reform policies carried on under the aegis of the occupation,
stock Commmmist arguments for proletarian unity in self-defense and for emphasis
on militant direct action as opposed to parliamentary procedures may appeal
increasingly to elements hitherto associated with the moderate left, particularly
in the absence of a marked improvement in economic conditions.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 600 === (confidence 0.95)
-273-
RESTRICTED
APPENDIX A
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTEB ON JAPANESE LEFT-WING IEADERB
These notes, prepared in cooperation with the Division of Biographie Imformetion,
are based on a vide variety of souroes, including Japanese newspapers, stadies of the
proletarien movement in both Japanese and English, and standard Who's Who's. Many of
these souroes are vague, internally inoonsistent, or mutually contradictory. Dm
compiling these notes, an attempt has bean made to eliminate such inoonsistencies
and contradiotions through comparison and cross-checking, but no claims are mede to
complete aoouraoy. Nor should these notes be regarded as covering all left-wing
leaders of present or potential importence, since, with a very few exceptions, a
conscious effort was made to inolude only those leaders whose personal histories
are available in sufficient detail to present a meaningful picture.
ABE Isoo
Current Activities. Adviser to Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1865, Fukuoka; graduated from Doshisha (Kyoto) and
Hartford (Conn.) Theologioal Seminary; taught at Waseda University for over
twenty-five years; adviser to Rödō Nömintő in l925; one of organizers of Shakai
Minshuto in l926 end thereafter its president; ohairman of Central Executive
Committee of Shakai Taishuto, 1932-40; res1gned from Shaka1 Taishuto in 1940 and
led in the attempt to organize the Kinro Kokumintō; elocted to Diet in 1928,
1932, 1936, and 1937.
AKAMATSU Touneko
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Mippon Shakaito;
chief of Women's Bureau, Rödo Kumiai Bod&mei; member, House of Counoillors, from
national constituenoy.
Background. Born 1903, Yamaguohi; attended Kyoto Women's College; chief of
Women's Department, Wippon Rōdo Sodomei, l934-k0; Parliamentary Vice Minister of
Welfare, April-0ctober 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 601 === (confidence 0.97)
-274-
RESTRICTED
AOYAMA Kazuo
Current Activities. Member, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1905; active in left-wing cultural groups; imprisoned for
five months in 1935; secured position with a firm in Shanghai in 1936; became
adviser to WAng Peng-sheng (Chiang's adviser on Japanese arfairs) in Nanking in
1937; in 1938 went to Chngking, where he organized the Japanese Demooratic
Comittee and published Kokusai (International Affairs); returned to Japan early
in 1946; member, Central Committee, Minshu Jimmin Romme1.
ARAHATA Katauzo (Kanson)
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo; president of
Kanto District Union of Metal Workers, which is affiliated with Rodo Kumiai Sodomei;
labor representative, Central Labor Relations Committee.
Background. Born 1887, Yokohama; originally a syndicalist and leader of
Shinyukai; became a Comunist in l917 and was one of orgamizers of Nippon Kyōsantō;
attended Fourth Congress of the Commmmist International in l922; imprisoned for one
year in 1924; in 1925 met with Commmist leaders in Shanghai and urged dissolution
of the party; arrested in 1926 and released in 1928; apparently arrested again in
or before 1930 and broke with Nippon Kyosanto sometime thereafter; elected to
Executive Committee of Association of Friends of Peace in the Far East, organized
by Kato Kanju in 1933, and was also associated with Kato in Nippon Musantō; arrested
for united front activities in 1937; member, Central Executive Committee, Mippon
Shakaito, August 1946-July 1948; chairman, Shakaitō Bducat1on Committee, 1947;
chairman, Shakaitō Labor Committee, 1948; resigned from the Shakaitō, July 4, 1948;
locted to tho Diot, 1946 and 1947.
ASANUMA IneJiro
Current Activities. Socretary general, Nippon Shakaitō; member, House of
Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born 1898, Tokyo; graduated from Waseda University, 1923; joined
Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1924; arrested in 1924 for strike activities; chief secrotary,
Bomdn Rodoto; one of organizers of Nippon Ronōto; chief secretary, Nippon Nōmin
Rumiai; January l93l, chief of Organization Section and mamber of Cantral Executive
Committee, Zenkoku Taishüto; July 193l, chief of Organization Section and mamber
of Central Executive Cammittee, Zenkoka Ronō Taishūtō; 1932-40, chief of
Organization Section and msmber of Central Executive Committee, Shakai Taishito;
September-Movember 1941, member of IRAPS; 1941-42, member of Standing Committee of
Tokyo branch and counselor of Fakuoka branch, IRAA; 1944-45, cowsselor of Fukugava
brameh of IRAA; member, Tokyo Mumicipal Assembly in 1933, 1937, 1943, became vice
chairman in 1945; auditor, Nipnon Shakaito, 1946; Shakaitō election secretary, Kanto
area, 1947; chairman, House of Representatives Rules Committee, June 1947-November
1948; ol00tod to D10t, 1936, 1937, 1946, and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 602 === (confidence 0.97)
-275-
RESTRICTED
BABA Tsunego
Current Activities. President, Yomiuri Shimbun; sponsor, Fabian Society.
Background. Born 1875, Okayansa; attended Doshisha and Waseda Universities;
1924, active in the movement to organize a proletarian party; l926, named adviser
to Shakai Minshutō; 1932, appointed adviser to Shaka1 Taishutō; adviser to Nippon
Shakaito, November 1945-September 1946.
BOBU Ontetsu
Current Activities. Candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Korean, born 1909; primary school graduate; 1928, joined
General League of Korean Labor; member of Tokyo Korean Labor Union; Joined
Nippon Kyösantō, 1933; arrested in 1934, 1938, and 1941.
DOBASHI Kazuyoshi
Current Activities. President, Zentei (Commumication Worbors' Union);
momber, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 1908, Shimane; graduate, Meiji University Law School (Tokyo);
1934, became minor official in the Tokyo Central Post Office; conscripted in l943,
served until 1945; organizer of commnmications workers, 1945; elocted president of
Zente1, 1946; vice chairman, Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Rōdó Kiumiai Kaigi, 1940-47.
DOI Naosaku
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Kanagawa; mamber,
Central Exocutive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1900, Ishikava; attended labor school; member, Kanagawa
Prefectural Assembly, elected 1932, 1936, end 1940; member, Kawasaki Mumicipal
Assembly, 1936-40; member of Central Committee and chairman of Kanagava branch,
Rödō Kumiai Sodomei; chief secretary, Kanagawa branch, Shakai Minshutō, 1930;
chief secretary of Kanagawa branch and mamber of Central Executive Committee,
Shakai Taishūto, 1932-40; counselor, Kanagava branch, IRAA, 1940; director,
Kanagawa branch, Dai Nippon Se1jikai, 1945; member of Central Committee and
of Propaganda Division, Nippon Shakaito, 1945; chairman, Commmications Comaittee,
House of Representatives, May-0ctober 1948; olected to Diet, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 603 === (confidence 0.93)
-276-
XESTRJOTED
BOUCHI Kiyosh1 (Kan)
Carrent Activities. Chairmam of Tochigi Committee, Mippon Kyösamto.
Background. Born 1887, Tokyo; attenled Tokyo Dmperial Umiversity; 1927,
orgamized Japan Proletariam Literary Arts Leagwe; 1939, sentemoed to two years
imprisomment for violatiom of Peace Preservation Lew; spomsor of New Japen Literary
Society; wmsuooessfal Commmist Diet canlidate, April l9h6.
FUKUMOTO Kas NO
Current Activities. Free lance writer.
Background. Born 1893, Tottori; graluated from Tokyo Dmperial University,
1920; traveled in United States and Europe, 1922-24, and joined Cosmamist Party
while in Germany; after his return to Japam in l92k became a leoturer mmd writer
cm Marrimm, publishing a mosthy magazine, Under the Marxist Flag; became theoretical
lealer of Mippon Kyösantó in 1926, replacing TAMAkNA Mitosh1; 1927, his dootrines
were condemmed by the Comintern and, after attending meetings in Mosoow, he
abjured them; arrested im l929 and subseqwently sentemoed to ten years'
imprisommeat; expelled or seceded from Nippon Eyossmto sometime after 1927.
FUSE Tatsuji
Current Activities. Mamber, Jiyu Hōso Dan (Free Bar Association); member,
Leagus to Defend Demooracy.
Baokground. Born 1881, Tokyo; gradvate of Ne1ji University; motive im 1924
in the movement for orgamization of a proletariam party; legal adviser to various
trade mions and leftist orgamisations; l926, alvieer to Rödo Mominto; member of
the leftist faction opposing orgamization of the Shin Romoto in 1929; disbarred,
1932; mmber of Erecutive Committee of Assooiatiom or Friends of Pesse in the
Far East, orgamizod by LATO Kanju in 1933; imprisomod 1933-35 and 1939-40;
umswocessful independent camdidate for govermor, Miyagi Prefeoture, 1947;
wmsmosessful Rodo Momimto Diet candidate in l926.
REBTRICTED

=== Page 604 === (confidence 0.97)
-277-
RESTRICTED
HAKAMADA Satom1
Current Activities. Member, Cantral Committee, Mippon Eyosanto.
Background. Born 1904, Aomor1; 1923, member of leftist faction of Wippon
Rodō Sodāmei; 1925, one of organizers of Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Ryōgikai; went to
Moscow to study in 1925; returned to Japan in 1928 and became active in
reorganization of Nippon Kyosanto; imprisoned Jume 1928 - October 1932; 1933,
became a candidate member of Nippon Kyosanto's Central Cosmittee and its Tokyo
District Committee; December 1933, elected a member of Nippon Ayosanto's Central
Committee and chief of its Organization Section; arrested March 1935; imprisoned
1935-45; member of Central Committee and Political Bureau and chief of Control
Department and Labor Organizing Committee, Nippon Kyosanto, l946; active in the
organization of the Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, l9h6; chief of the
Seinen Kyösan Dome1 (Young Comnnist League), 1946-47.
HARA Hyo (Hyonosuke)
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō;
member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born 1894, Okayama; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University;
member of Central Committee and chief of Education Section, Shakai Minshutō;
professor of law, Hosei University, since l929; member, Central Committee,
Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
HARA Toraichi
Current Activities. Hember, House of Councillors, from national constituency.
Background. Born 1897, Okayama; 1921, joined Nippon Rodo Södome1; led movement
for erpulsion of Commmists from Sodomei in 1924; 1928, member, Central Committee,
Shakai Minshutō; 1935, vieited Europo as adviser to Japanese delegation to
International Labor Conference; 1937-42, member, Tokyo Municipal Assembly; Labor
representative on Contral Labor Relations Comsmittee and on Cabinet Payroll Committee
of the Economic Stabilization Board, 1947; chairman, Labor Committee, House of
Coumoillors, 1947; elected secretary general of Rōdo Kumiai Sōdome1, 1946 and 1947;
unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1942; olected to Diet, 1947.
HASEGAWA Hiroshi
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee, Secretariat, and Political
Bureau, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1903, Aichi; attended Kyoto Dmperial Univorsity; 1928, Joined
Nippon Kyosantō and arrested; 1933, became a member of Central Committee of Mippon
Kyösantō; arrested 1940, released l943; mamber or Contral Committee and Political
Bureau, Nippon Kyōsanto, 1946-47.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 605 === (confidence 0.97)
-278-
RESTRICTED
HATANO Kanao
Current Activities. Nember, House of Coumoillors, from Fukuoka; vice chairman,
Political Affairs Investigation Cosmittee, Nippon Shakaito.
Background. Born 1896, Aiohi; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University, law, 1920;
studied in England and the United States; taught at Doshisha University and Kyushu
Imperial University, 1925-47; chairman, Kyushu Economic Researoh Association;
managing director, Fukuoka branch, East Asia League; Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry, December 1947-Maroh 1948.
HAYASHI Hyakuro
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Nagano; member,
Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1913, Nagano; graduate of Chuo University, law; Joined Young
Communist League, 1933; arrested in 1934, received suspended sentence; manager,
Jiyú Hoso Dan (Frse Bar Association); member, Nagano Prefectural Labor Mediation
Committee; unsucoessful Commmist Diet candidate, 1946.
HIRANO Rikizo
Current Activities. Purged January 1948.
Background. Born 1898, Gifu; graduated from Waseda University, 1922; became
member, Central Committee, Homin Kumiai, 1924; 1926, organized rightist Zen Nippon
Nomin Kumiai and Nippon Nominto; 1928, became chief secretary, Nippon Taishūto; 1929-32,
member of Executive Committee, Shakai Hinshutō; in early 1930's, associated with
AKAMATSU Katsumaro in organizing Nippon Kokka Shakaitō (Japan National Socialist Party);
1934, beceme permanent seoretary of Kodokai (Imperial Way Society) and editor of its
official organ, Kodō; l937, president of Zen Nippon Nōmin Kimiai when it joined the
Imperial Farmors' League in the Congress of Patriotic Faming Groupe; member, Central
Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-January 1948; member, Central Executive
Comm1ttee, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1946-47; organizer, Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai, July 1947;
Minister of Agrioulture, Jume-November, 1947; rosigned from Shakaito, Jamuary 5, 1948;
purged, January 13, 1948; elocted to the D1ot, 1936, 1937, 1942, 1946, and 1947.
HORI Makoto
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency;
member, Tempurary Central Executive Committee, Rodosha Nominto.
Backgroind. Born 1898; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; lectured at Tokyc
Imperial University, Keio University, and Hosei University; director, Jiyu Konwakai
(Free Speech Society); elected to Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito,
January 1948; seceded from the Shakaitō, July 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 606 === (confidence 0.97)
- 279-
RESTRICTED
HOSAKA Hiroakd (Kome1)
Current Activities. Candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 19l5; attended Tokyo Dmperial University; Joined Nippon
Kyösanto, 1938; arrested 1940.
HOSODA Tsunakichi
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee, chier of Publications
Department, and chairman of Ibarag1 branch, Nippon Shakaitō; director, Zenkoku Nömin
Kumiai (National Farmers' Union).
Background. Born 1899, Ibaragi; graduate of Nippon University, law, 1924;
practiced law; member, Tokyo Municipal Assembly; member, Executive Committee,
Nippon Ronoto; member, Executive Committes, Shakai Trishutō; member, Central
Committee, Nippon Shakaito, since 19h6; elooted to Diet, April 1946.
HOSOKAWA Karoku
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency;
member, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1888; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; lecturer,
Tokyo Imperial University; member, Nippon Ronoto; member of staff, Ohara Social
Problems Research Institute; imprisoned 1942-45; chairman, Social Science
Research Institute.
HOSONO Michio
Current Activities. Chairmen of Akita branch and member of Central Executive
Committee, Nippon Shakaito; member, House of Representatives, from Akita.
Background. Born 1897, Aichi; graduated from Tokyo Duperial University, 1920;
treasurer, Nāmin Rodōto, l926; member of Executive Committee and treasurer of Rodo
Nomintō, 1926-28, member, Executive Committee, Nippon Taishutō; 1930,member, Central
Executive Comittee, Zenkoku Taishüto; 1932-40, member, Central Erecutive Committee,
Shakai Taishito; chief treasurer, Nippon Shakaitō, l9h6; unsuccessful candidate for
presidency of Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1947, joined Zenkoku Nomin Atmiai; chairman,
Shakaito Liaison Committee, 1947; Parliamentary Vice Minister of Education, April-
October 1948; oloctod to the D1ot, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 607 === (confidence 0.97)
- 280 -
RESTRICTED
INAMURA JUnZO
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Farm Committee, Mippon Shakaito; member, Central Executive Committee, Mippon Nomin
Kumiai; organizer, Shutaisei Kakushin Domei; member, House of Representatives, from
Niigata.
Background. Born 1900, Hokkaido; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; momber,
Central Committee, Musan Taishūto, 1928; editor, Rono, 1930; member of central
executive committee of Akita branch and Central Committee, Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai,
1933-34; arrested for popular front activities, l937; member of organizing committee,
Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1945; adivser, Niigata chapter, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, 1947;
Shakaitō election secretary for northern Japan, 1947; elected to the Diet, 1946 and
1947.
INOUE RyoJ1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Osaka.
Background. Born 1898, Kochi; primary education; 1923, became business
manager of Osaka Labor School; 1929, joined Rōdō Kumiai Zenkoku Dōmei; successively
an officer in Zenkoku Taismitō, Zenkoku Rānō Taishutő, and Shakai Taishutō; member
of IRAPS, January-March 1940; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito,
June 1946-January 1948; Parliamentary Vice Minister of Agriculture and Forestry,
Jume 1947-October 1948; unsuccessful Diet cendidate, 1942; elected to the Diet,
1937, 1946, and 1947.
ITO Konioh1
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto; labor
representative, Tokyo Metropolitan Labor Relations Committee.
Background. Born 1912, Korea; primary education; 1928, Joined Young Communist
League; 1929, became a member of the Young Communist League Central Committee;
imprisoned 1929-36; organizer and chairman, Kanto Area Labor Union Council; one of
organizers of Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Rödō Kumia1 Kaigi; official of All-Japan Machinary
Workers' Union, 1947; unsuccessful Communist Diet candidate, April 1946.
ITO Ritsu
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee, Secretariat, and Political
Bureau, co-chairman of Akahata Department, and chairman of Farmers: Department,
Nippon Kyōsantō.
Background. Born 1913, Gifu; 1932, expelled from Dai-Ichi Higher School for
Communist Activity; l932, member of Central Finance Committee, Young Communist
League; 1933, chief of Business Affairs Bureau, Young Communist League; 1933-34,
imprisoned; arrested intermittently thereafter and spent most of his time until
August 1945 in prison; unsuccessful Communist Diet candidate, April 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 608 === (confidence 0.97)
-281-
RESTRICTED
ITO Ushiro
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Election Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; member, House of Representatives, from Fuiruoika.
Background. Born 1894, Nagasaki; primary education; active in miners' unions,
1920-22; organized unions affiliated with Nippon Rōdō Sōdāmei; joined Nippon Rānōto,
1928; later a member of Shakai Minshuto, Zenkoku Röno Taishuto, and of Central
Committee of Shakai Taishuto; 1932-35, member of Fukuota Prefectural Assembly;
counselor of Fukuoka branch of IRAA and officer of Sampo (patriotic labor front);
vice-president, Rodo Kumiai Sodome1, 19h6-47; chairman, House of Representatives
Mining and Industry Committee, 1947; chairman, Kyushu district committee, Rōdō
Kumiai Sodōme1, 1947; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
IWAMOTO Iwao
Current Activities. Member, Control Comaittee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born l9ll; graduate of Kobe Shinko Commercial College; arrested
in 1932 for activities in proletarian cultural movements; 1933, joined Nippon
Kyosanto; 1935-45, imprisoned; candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto,
1946-47.
IWATA E11ch1
Current Activities. Candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosantō;
member, Tokyo Metropoliten Assembly.
Background. Born 1906, Tokyo; graduated from Waseda Technical School, 1924;
active in Nippon Rodo Kumiai Hyogikai and in organization of Shin Ronoto, 1928;
representative of the Poople's Food Control Committee involved in Itabashi Incident,
January 1946.
KAGAWA Toyohiko
Current Activities. Adviser, Nippon Shakaitō; president, Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1888, Kobe; attended Kobe Theological Seminary and Princeton
University; active in Christian social work end trade-union organizations; l922,
one of organizers and adviser to Nippon Nōmin Kumiai; 1926, elected to Central
Executive Committee of Rodo Nominto, withdrew after November split; l930, adviser,
Zenkoku Taishutō; prosident, Nippon Kyōikusha Kumiai, 1945-46; organizer and
president, Nippon Kyodo Kumiai Domei (Japan Federation of Cooperative Unione),
1945-47; member, House of Peers, 1946-47.
PESTRICTED

=== Page 609 === (confidence 0.97)
-282-
RESTRICTED
KAJI Wataru
Current Activities. Member, Bumren; sponsor, League to Defend Demooraoy.
Background. Born c. 1905; graduated from Tokyo Lmperial University, 1927;
joined Rodo Hominto, did organizing work for the party; and was active in
proletarian culture groups; imprisoned 1929-32; rearrested and released, 1937;
fled to Shanghai; organized the Hansen Dāmei in China in 1939; returned to Japan,
May 19h6; unsuccessful independent candidate for House of Councillors, 1947.
KAMEDA Togo
Current Activities. Chairman of Education Section and vice-president,
Zenkoku Sangyöbetsu Rödo Kumiai Kaigi; chairman, All-Japan Chemical Workers'
Union; member, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born l9ll; primary school teacher; employee of a chemical firm;
uncussessful Commist Diet candidate, April 1947.
KAMEYAMA KOZO
Current Activities. Momber of Secretariat and of Central Committee, Nippon
Kyōsanto.
Background. Born 1911, Kagawa; 1932, joined Young Commmist League; 1933,
arrested and sentenced to three years' imprisonment; expelled from Kyoto Imperial
University; imprisoned 1937-40; conscripted in 1940, discharged in 1942; appointed
candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto, February 1946.
KAMTMURA SuBUu
Current Activities. Member, Jiyū Hōso Dan (Free Bar Association); momber,
Bunren.
Background. Born 1883, Wiigata; graduated from Waseda Un1versity, 1908; 1926,
became member of Central Executive Committee, Rōdō Nominto; l929, one of organizers
of Shin Ronoto; arrested in 1933 as a member of Japanese Barristers' Organization
for Farmers and Laborers; elected to Diet in 1928; unsuccessful Diet candidate in
1930and 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 610 === (confidence 0.97)
-283-
RESTRICTED
KAMIYAMA Sh1geo
Current Activities. Mamber, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1905, Yamaguahi; graduated from Tokyo Soijo Middle School,
1924; 1929, joined Nippon Kyosanto; arrested 1935, released on probation 1937;
imprisoned l941-45; chairman of Labor Union and Farmors' Department, Nippon
Kyosanto, 1945; chairman, Publications' Department, Nippon Kyōsanto, 1946.
KAN Makoto
Current Activities. President, Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi;
chairman, All-Japan Machine Workers' Union.
Background. Born 1904; graduate of Ibarag1 prefectural industrial school;
taught at that school for nine years; mechanic in airplane factory, 1932-35;
chief factory technician since 1945; unsuccessful independent candidate for House
of Councillors, April 1947.
KANEMASA Yonokioh1
Current Activities. Vice-president, Rōdo Kumiai Sōdomei; member, Central
Committee, Nippon Shakaito; commissioner, Holding Company Liquidation Commission,
1947-48; vice-president, National League of Textile Industry Workers' Unions;
secretary, Osaka branch, Rōdo Kumiai Sōdōmei; member, National Public Safety
Commission.
Background. Born 1892, Saga; primary educat1on; joined Yuaikai, 1919;
later became secretary of Osaka branch, manager of Kansai branch, and member of
Central Committee of Nippon Rōdō Sōdome1; 1930, accompanied SuzUKI Bumj1 to
International Labor Conference; l932, official of the Kansai Rodo Dome1 (Kansai
Area Labor Federation); unsuccessful Socialist Diet candidate, 1946 and 1947.
KANO (KANAE) Takash1
Current Activities. Director, Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai; member, House of
Representatives, from Osaka.
Background. Born 1908, Khime; studied at Waseda Univorsity; chairman, Fuse
chapter, Shakai Taishutō; msmber, Central Committee, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, 1946;
member, Central Commaittee, Nippon Shakaitō, 1947; seceded from Nippon Shakaitō,
Jenuary 1948; olected to the D1et, 1946 and 1947.
ESTRICTED

=== Page 611 === (confidence 0.97)
-284-
RESTRICTED
KARASAWA Tosh1ko
Current Activities. Member, Sapporo District Committee, Nippon Kyosento.
Background. Born 19ll, Sapporo; graduate of Sapporo Girls' High Sohool;
1932-33, chief of Womon's Department and member of Sapporo Counc1l of Nippon Rōdō
So-Hyogika1; arrested for Commmist activity in 1933, 1936, 1938, and 1941; •looted
to Diet, April 1946; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1947.
KASUGA Shoich1
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1907, Nagano; granmar school education; 1935, joined
Musan Seinen Dome1 (Young Men's Proletarian Union); 1928-35, imprisoned for
violation of Peace Preservation Law; 1940-45, imprisoned; candidate member,
Central Comittee, Nippon Kyosanto, 1945-46; member, Organization Committee,
Zenkoku Sangyöbetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, l946; unsuccessful Commnnist Diet
cand1date, Apr11 1946.
KASUGA Shojiro
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto; member,
Sovioto Kenkyusha Kyokai.
Background. Born 1903, Osaka; expelled from Ritsumeikan Middle School for
redical activities; l924, organized Kento Printers' Union, which was first
affiliated with the Dai Nippon Rodo Sōdāmei and, after the Sōdōmei split, with
the Hyogikai; 1924, studied in U8sR; 1925, chief secretary, Kansai brench,
Nippon Ayosanto; 1926, member of Foreign Relations Section of Nippon Kyosanto and
a field organizer; arrested 1928, released 1937, but reimprisoned from early 1938
to October 1945; prinoipal, Young Commumist League Sohool, Sendai, 1946; member,
Political Bureau, Nippon Kyosantō, 1946-47.
KATAYAMA Totsu
Current Activities. Chairman, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito;
member, House of Representatives, from Kanagawa.
Background. Born 1887, Wakayama; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University,
1912; 1920, became legal adviser to Dai Nippon Rōdō Sōdāmei and Nippon Nōmin Kumiai;
1926, elected secretary of Executive Committee of Shakai Minshut5; 1932, chief
secretary of Shakai Minshutō; member of Executive Committee of Shakai Taishuto and
member of Abe faction; expelled from Shakai Taishutō in 1940; a leader in the attempt
to organize the Kinrō Kokumintō; president of Nippon Nomin Kumiai Sōdomei (General
Federation of Farmers' Unions) from l926 until its dissolution in 1940; secretary
general, Nippon Shakaito, 1945-46; elected chairman of N1ppon Shakaito, September
19h6; Premier of Japan, May 1947-February 1948, elocted to the Diet, 1928, 1930,
1936, 1937, 1946, and 1947; unsuccessful Diet cand1date in 1942.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 612 === (confidence 0.96)
-277-
RESTRICTED
HAKAMADA Satom1
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Mippon yosanto.
Background. Born 1904, Aomor1; 1923, member of leftist fection of Wippon
Rodo Sodome1; 1925, one of organizers of Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Ryōgikai; went to
Moscow to study in 1925; returned to Japan in 1928 and became active in
reorganization of Nippon Kyosanto; 1mprisoned Jume 1928 - October 1932; 1933,
became a candidate member of Nippon Kyosanto's Central Committee and its Tokyo
District Committee; December 1933, •locted a member of Wippon Ryosanto's Central
Committee and chief of its Organization Section; arrested Maroh 1935; imprisoned
1935-45; member of Central Committee and Political Bureau and chief of Control
Department and Labor Organizing Committee, Nippon Ayosanto, 1946; active in the
organization of the Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, l9h6; chief of the
Soinen Kyösan Dome1 (Young Communist Loague), 1946-47.
HARA Byo (Hyonosuko)
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō;
member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born 1894, Okayama; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University;
momber of Central Committee and chief of Education Section, Shakai Minshuto;
professor of law, Hosei University, since l929; member, Central Committee,
Nippon Shaka1to, 1946-47; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
HARA Toraichi
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency.
Background. Born 1897, Okayama; 1921, Joined Nippon Rodo Södome1; lod movement
for expulsion of Commmists from Sodome1 in 1924; 1928, member, Central Committee,
Shakai Minshutō; 1935, visited Europe as adviser to Japanese dolegation to
International Labor Conference; 1937-42, member, Tokyo Mumioipal Assembly; Labor
representative on Central Labor Relations Committee and on Cabinet Payroll Committee
of the Eoonomic Stabilization Board, 1947; chairman, Labor Committee, House of
Coumo1llors, 1947; elocted secretary general of Rōdo Kumiai Sōdome1, 19h6 and 1947;
unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1942; olected to Diot, 1947.
HASEGAWA Hiroshi
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee, Secretariat, and Politioal
Bureau, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1903, Aichi; attonded Kyoto Dawerial University; 1928, Joined
Nippon Eyosantō and arrested; 1933, became a member of Contral Comittee of Wippon
Ky8santō; arrested 1940, released 1943; mamber or Contral Committes and Political
Buroau, Nippon Kyōsantō, 1946-47.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 613 === (confidence 0.97)
-278-
RESTRICTED
HATANO Kanao
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from Fukuoka; vice chairman,
Political Affairs Investigation Cosmittee, Mippon Shakaito.
Background. Born 1696, Aiohi; graduate of Tokyo Dmperial University, law, 1920;
stulied in England and the United States; taught at Doshisha University and Kyushu
Imperial University, 1925-47; chairman, Ayushu Economic Rosearch Association;
managing director, Fukuoka branch, East Asia League; Minister of Agriculture and
Forestry, December 1947-Marah 1948.
HAYASHI Hyakuro
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, froa Nagano; member,
Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1913, Nagano; graduate of Chuo University, law; joined Young
Commnist League, 1933; arrested in 1934, received suspended sentence; manager,
Jiyu Hosō Dan (Free Bar Association); member, Nagano Prefectural Labor Modiation
Committee; unsucoessful Commnist Diet candidate, 1946.
HIRANO Rikizo
Current Activities. Purged January 1948.
Background. Born 1898, Gifu; graduated from Waseda University, 1922; became
member, Central Committee, Nomin Kumiai, 1924; 1926, organized rightist Zen Nippon
Nomin Kumiai and Nippon Nominto; 1928, became chief secretary, Nippon Taishūto; 1929-32,
member of Ezecutive Comittee, Shakai Minshuto; in early 1930's, associated with
AKAMATSU Katsumaro in organizing Hippon Kokka Shakaitō (Japan National Socialist Party);
1934, became permanent secretary of Kodokai (Imperial Way Society) and editor of its
official organ, Kodō; l937, president of Zen Nippon Nomin Kumiai when it joined the
Imperial Farmers' League in the Congress of Patriotic Faiming Groups; msmber, Central
Exeoutive Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-Jenuary 1948; member, Central Executive
Comm1ttee, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1946-47; organizer, Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai, July 1947;
Minister of Agriculture, June-November, 1947; resigned from Shakaito, Jamuary 5, 1948;
purged, Jamuery 13, 1948; olected to the D1et, 1936, 1937, 1942, 1946, and 1947.
HORI Makoto
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency;
member, Tempurary Central Executive Cosmittee, Rodosha Nominto.
Backgroitnd. Born 1898; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; leotured at Tokyc
Imperial University, Keio University, and Hosei University; direotor, Jiyu Konwakai
(Free Speech Society); elected to Central Erecutive Committee, Nippon Shakaito,
January 1948; seceded from the Shakaitō, July 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 614 === (confidence 0.97)
- 279 -
RESTRICTED
HOSAKA Hiroakd (Kome1)
Current Activities. Candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Ayosanto.
Background. Born 1915; attended Tokyo Dmperial University; Joined Nippon
Kyosento, 1938; arrested 1940.
HOSODA Tsunakichi
Current Activities. Member of Central Comittee, chief of Publications
Department, and chairman of Ibaragi branch, Nippon Shakaitő; director, Zenkoku Mōmin
Kumiai (National Farmers' Union).
Background. Born 1899, Ibarag1; graduate of Nippon University, law, 1924;
practiced law; momber, Tokyo Municipal Assembly; member, Executive Committee,
Nippon Ronötō; member, Executive Committee, Shakai Trishutō; member, Central
Committee, Nippon Shakaitō, since 19h6; elected to Diet, April 1946.
HOSOKAWA Karoku
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituenoy;
member, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1888; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; locturer,
Tokyo Imperial University; member, Nippon Ronōto; member of staff, Ohara Social
Problems Research Institute; imprisoned 1942-45; chairman, Social Soience
Research Institute.
HOSONO Michio
Current Activities. Chairman of Akita branch and member of Central Executive
Committee, Nippon Shakaito; member, House of Representatives, from Akita.
Background. Born 1897, Aichi; graduated from Tokyo Dmperial University, 1920;
treasurer, Nomin Rodoto, 1926; member of Executive Committee and treasurer of Rodo
Nominto, 1926-28, member, Executive Committee, Nippon Taishutō; 1930,member, Central
Executive Comittee, Zenkoku Taishuto; l932-40, member, Central Erecutive Committee,
Shakai Taishuto; chief treasurer, Nippon Shakaitō, l9h6; umsuccessful candidate for
presidency of Hippon Nomin Kumiai, l947, joined Zonkoku Nomin Kumiai; chairman,
Shakaito Liaison Committee, 1947; Parliamentary Vice Minister of Education, April-
October 1948; olocted to the D1ot, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 615 === (confidence 0.97)
-280-
RESTRICTED
INAMURA JUnZO
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Farm Committee, Mippon Shakaito; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Namin
Kumiai; organizer, Shutaisei Kakushin Domei; member, House of Representatives, from
Niigata.
Background. Born 1900, Hokkaido; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; member,
Central Committee, Musan Taishūtō, 1928; oditor, Rono, 1930; member of central
executive committee of Akita branch and Central Committee, Zenkoku Nomin Kumial,
1933-34; arrested for popular front activities, 1937; member of organizing committee,
Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1945; adivser, Niigata chapter, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, 1947;
Shakaito election secretary for northern Japan, 1947; elected to the Diet, 1946 and
1947.
INOUE Ryoj1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Osaka.
Background. Born 1898, Kochi; primary education; 1923, became business
manager of Osaka Labor School; 1929, Joined Rōdō Kumiai Zenkoku Dōmei; successively
an officer in Zenkoku Taishitō, Zenkoku Rōnō Taishutő, and Shakai Taishutō; member
of IRAPS, January-March 1940; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaits,
June 1946-January 1948; Parliamentary Vice Minister of Agr1culture and Forestry,
Jume 1947-October 1948; umsuocessful Diet cendidate, 1942; olected to the Diet,
1937, 1946, and 1947.
ITO Konich1
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto; labor
representative, Tokyo Metropolitan Labor Relations Committee.
Background. Born 1912, Korea; primary education; 1928, Joined Young Communist
League; 1929, became a member of the Young Communist League Central Committee;
imprisoned 1929-36; organizer and chairman, Kanto Area Labor Union Council; one of
organizers of Zenkoku Sangyōbetsu Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi; official of All-Japan Machinery
Workers' Union, 1947; unsuccessful Communist Diet candidate, April 1946.
ITO Ritsu
Current Activities. Member of Central Coamittee, Secretariat, and Political
Bureau, co-chairman of Akahata Department, and cheirman of Farmers' Department,
Nippon Kyōsantō.
Background. Born 1913, Gifu; 1932, expelled from Da1-Ichi Higher School for
Communiet Activity; 1932, member of Contral Finance Committee, Young Communist
League; 1933, chief of Business Affairs Bureau, Young Communist Loague; 1933-34,
imprisoned; arrested intermittently thereafter and spent most of his time until
August 1945 in prison; unsuccessful Commumist Diet candidate, April 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 616 === (confidence 0.97)
-281-
REBTRICTED
ITO Ushiro
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Election Committee, Mippon Shakaitō; member, House of Representatives, from Fukuoka.
Baokground. Born 1894, Nagasaki; primary education; active in miners' unions,
1920-22; organized unions affiliated with Nippon Rödō Bodāmei; joined Nippon Ronöto,
1928; later a member of Shakai Minshutő, Zenkoku Röno Taisható, and of Contral
Committee of Shaka1 Taishuto; 1932-35, member of Fukuota Prefectural Assembly;
counselor of Fukuoka branch of IRAA and officer of Sampo (patriotic labor front);
vice-president, Rodo Kumiai Sōdome1, 19h6-47; chairman, House of Representatives
Mining and Industry Committee, 1947; chairman, Kyushu district committee, Rōdō
Kumiai Sodōme1, 1947; olected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
IWAMOTO Iwao
Current Activities. Member, Control Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born l9ll; graduate of Kobe Shinko Commercial College; arrested
in 1932 for activities in proletarian cultural movements; 1933, joined Nippon
Kyosanto; 1935-45, imprisoned; candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosantō,
1946-47.
WATA Biich1
Current Aotivities. Candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto;
member, Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly.
Background. Born 1906, Tokyo; graduated from Waseda Technical Sohool, 1924;
active in Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Hyogikai and in organization of Shin Ronoto, 1928;
representative of the People's Food Control Committee involved in Itabashi Incident,
January 1946.
KAGAWA Toyoh1ko
Current Activities. Adviser, Nippon Shakaitō; president, Zenkoku Nomin Kumia1.
Background. Born 1888, Kobe; attended Kobe Theological Seminary and Princeton
University; active in Christian social work end trade-union organizations; l922,
one of organizers and adviser to Nippon Nōmin Kumiei; 1926, elected to Central
Executive Committee of Rödō Nominto, withdrew after November split; l930, adviser,
Zenkoku Taiehutō; president, Nippon Kyōikusha Kumiai, 1945-46; organizer end
president, Nippon Kvodo Kumiai Damei (Japan Federation of Cooperative Unions),
1945-47; member, House of Peere, 1946-47.
PESTRICTED

=== Page 617 === (confidence 0.97)
-282-
RESTRICTED
KAJI Wataru
Current Activities. Member, Bumren; sponsor, League to Defend Demoaracy.
Background. Born c. 1905; graduated from Tokyo Dmperial University, 1927;
joined Rodo Hominto, did organizing work for the party; and was active in
proletarian culture groups; imprisoned 1929-32; rearrested and released, 1937;
fled to Shanghai; organized the Hansen Dämei in China in 1939; returned to Japon,
May 1946; unsuocessful independent candidate for House of Counc1llors, 1947.
KAMEDA Togo
Current Activities. Chairman of Eiucation Section and vice-president,
Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi; chairman, All-Japan Chemical Workers
Union; mamber, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born l9ll; primary school teacher; employee of a chemioal firm;
uncussessful Commmist Diet candidate, April 1947.
KAMEYAMA KOZO
Current Activities. Member of Secretariat and of Central Committee, Nippon
Kyōsanto.
Background. Born 191l, Kagawa; 1932, joined Young Communist League; 1933,
arrested and sentenced to three years' imprisomment; expelled from Ayoto Imperial
University; imprisoned 1937-40; conscripted in 1940, discharged in 1942; appointed
candidate member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto, February 1946.
KAMDMURA SuSu
Current Activities. Member, Jiyū Hoso Dan (Free Bar Association); member,
Bunren.
Background. Born 1883, Niigata; graduated from Waseda University, 1908; 1926,
became member of Cantral Executive Committee, Rodo Naminto; l929, one of organizers
of Shin Ronoto; arrested in 1933 as a member of Japanese Barristers' Organization
for Farmers and Laborers; elected to Diet in l928; unsuccessful Diet candidate in
19300d 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 618 === (confidence 0.97)
-283 -
RESTRICTED
KAMIYAMA Shigeo
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Mippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1905, Yamaguah1; graduated from Tokyo Soijo Middle Sohool,
1924; 1929, joined Nippon Kyosanto; arrested 1935, released on probation 1937;
1mprisoned 1941-45; chairman of Labor Union and Farmers' Departmont, Nippon
Kyōsanto, 1945; chairman, Publications' Department, Nippon Kyosanto, 1946.
KAN Makoto
Current Activities. President, Zenkoku Sangyobeteu Rödo Kumiai Kaigi;
chairman, All-Japan Machine Workers' Union.
Background. Born 1904; graduate of Tbarag1 prefectural industrial school;
taught at that school for nine years; mechanic in airplane factory, 1932-35;
chief factory technician since 1945; unsuccessful independent candidate for House
of Counc1llors, Apr1l 1947.
KANEMASA Yonekioh1
Current Activities. Vice-president, Rödo Kumiai Sodomei; member, Contral
Committee, Nippon Shakaito; commissioner, Holding Company Liquidation Commission,
1947-48; vice-president, Hational League of Textile Industry Workers: Unions;
secretary, Osaka branch, Rōdo Kumiai Sōdamei; member, National Public Safety
Commission.
Background. Born 1892, Saga; primary educat1on; joined Yuaikai, 1919;
later became seoretary of Osaka branch, manager of Kansai branch, and member of
Central Committee of Nippon Rodo Sōdome1; 1930, accompanied SuzUkI Bumj1 to
International Labor Conference; l932, official of the Kansai Rodo Domei (Kansai
Aroa Labor Fedoration); unsuccessful Socialist Diet candidate, 1946 and 1947.
KANO (KANAE) Takash1
Current Activities. Director, Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai; member, House of
Representatives, from Osake.
Background. Born 1908, Ehime; studied at Waseda University; chairman, Fuse
chapter, Shakai Taiehutō; member, Central Committee, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, 1946;
member, Central Comaittee, Nippon Shakaito, 1947; secoded from Nippon Shakaitō,
January 1948; elocted to the D1et, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 619 === (confidence 0.97)
-284-
RESTRICTED
KARASAWA Tosh1ko
Current Activities. Member, Sapporo District Committee, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 19ll, Sapporo; graduate of Sapporo Girls' High Sohool;
1932-33, chief of Women's Department and member of Sapporo Counc11 of Nippon Rodō
Sō-Hyogikai; arrested for Commmist activity in 1933, 1936, 1938, and 1941; olected
to Diet, April 1946; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1947.
KASUGA Sho1ch1
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 1907, Nagano; grammar school oducation; 1935, joined
Musan Seinen Dome1 (Young Men's Proletarian Union); 1928-35, imprisoned for
Violation of Peace Preservation Law; 1940-45, imprisoned; candidate member,
Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto, l945-46; member, Organization Committee,
Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rodo Kumiai Kaigi, l946; unsuccessful Commnist Diet
cand1date, Apr1l 1946.
KASUGA Shojiro
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto; member,
Sovieto Kenkyusha Kyokai.
Background. Born 1903, Osaka; expelled from Ritsumeikan Middle School for
radical activities; l924, organized Kento Printers' Union, which was first
affiliated with the Dai Nippon Rödo Sōdāmei and, after the Sōdomei split, with
the Hyogika1; 1924, studied in UssR; 1925, chief secretary, Kansai branch,
Nippon Kyosanto; 1926, member of Foreign Relations Section of Nippon Kyosanto and
a field organizer; arrested 1928, released 1937, but reimprisoned from early 1938
to Ootober 1945; prinoipal, Young Communist League School, Sendai, 1946; member,
Political Bureau, Nippon Kyosanto, 1946-47.
KATAYAMA Tetau
Current Activities. Chairman, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito;
member, House of Representatives, from Kanagawa.
Background. Born 1887, Wakayama; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University,
1912; 1920, became logal adviser to Dai Nippon Rōdō Sōdōmoi and Nippon Nōmin Kumiai;
1926, elected secretary of Executive Committee of Shakai Minehut5; 1932, chief
secretary of Shakai Minshuto; member of Executive Committee of Shakai Taishūtō and
member of Abe faction; erpelled from Shakai Taishutō in l940; a leader in the attempt
to organize the Kinrō Kokumintō; president of Nippon Nomin Kumiai Sōdomei (General
Federation of Farmers' Unions) from 1926 until its dissolution in 1940; secrotary
general, Nippon Shakaitō, 1945-46; elected chairman of Nippon Shakaito, September
1946; Premier or Japan, May 1947-February 1948, elocted to the Diet, 1928, 1930,
1936, 1937, 1946, and 1947; unsuccessful Diet cand1date 1n 1942.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 620 === (confidence 0.97)
-285-
RESTRICTED
KATO Kanju
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Mippon Shabaito;
member, House of Representatives, from Aichi.
Background. Born 1892, Aichi; attended Mippon University; 1923, became
executive seoretary of Mippon Rödō Södäme1; l926, followed leadership of A80
Hisashi in seceding from Hippon Rodo Sodome1 to set up Mippom Rödō Emmiai Domei
and Wippon Rönōtō; 1930-32, member of Central Exeoutive Committee, Zenkoku Rono
Taishuto; l933, one of organizers of Association of Friends of Peece in the
Far East; between l933 and 1936 led the various left-wing trade unions supporting
united front policies, whioh in 1936 united to form the Ronō Musan Eyogikai; one
of organizers of Mippon Musant5 in 1937; imprisomed 1937-39; member, Arrangaments
Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1945; chairman, Aichi branch, Hippon Shakaitō, 1946;
chairman, Shakaito Labor Union Committee, 1946-June 1947; chairman, Lebor and
Hoarded Goods Investigation Committee, House of Representatives, June l9k7-March
1948; Minister of Labor, March-October 1948; eleoted to the Diet, 1936, 1937, 1946
and 1947.
KATO Ryozo
Current Activities. Member of Central Exeoutive Committee and chief of
Organization Departmont, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1899, Gifu; middle school graduate; member of Exeoutive
Committee and adviser of Gifu branch of Shakai Minshuto; member, Executive
Committee, Shakai Taishutō; adviser, Gifu branch, IRAA; member, Zenkoku Nomin
Kumiai, 1947; olocted to the Diet, 1937 and 1946.
KATO Shizuo (vife of KATO KanJu)
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born 1897, Tokyo; graduated from Peeress' School and from
Ballard School in New York; as Baroness Ishimoto, active in the birth control
and women's suffrage movements before the war; l937, arrested for united front
activities and detained for two weeks; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 621 === (confidence 0.96)
- 286 -
REBTRICTED
KAWAKAMI Jotaro
Current Aotivities. Purged.
Background. Born 1889, Tokyo; graduated from Tokyo Imperiel University, 1915;
taught at Rikkyo, Meij1, and Ewansa1 Universities; l928, became adviser to Kobe
branoh, Wippon Rönōtó; member, Mippon Taishutō; member, Central Executive Committee,
Zenkoku Rönō Taishuto; executive secretary of Shakai Taishutő and a member of Aso
faotion; in 1939 favored merging the Shakai Taishutő with the Tohokai; direotor of
IRAA and active organizer of IRAPS, 1942-45; member, Arrangements Committee, Nippon
Shakait5, 1945; adviser, Nippon Shakaitō, November 1945-January 1946; purged
January 19k6, oleared May 1948, olearance withdrawn May 1948; unsuccessful Diet
candidate 1n 1932; elected to Diet in 1928, 1936, 1937, and 1942.
KAZAHAYA Yasoj1
Current Activities. Chief of Investigation Department and member of Akahata
editorial bureau, Nippon Ryosanto.
Background. Born 1899; graduated from Tokyo Dmperial University Law Sohool,
1922; Education Ministry representative in France, l924; member of faculty of
Kyushu Dmperial University in 1926, suspended in 1927; Joined Japan Prolotarian
Science Research Institute, 1929; joined Nippon Ayosanto, 1932; imprisoned 1933-35;
chief, Citizens' Countermeasures Department, Nippon Kyosantō, l947.
KIKUCHI Jusaku
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Ibaraki; chairman,
Ibaraki branch, Nippon Shakaitō; treasurer, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1898; graduate of Sanami Agricultural Institute (Ibarakd
Prefecture); mamber, Central Committee, Shakai Taishuto, 1937-38; erpolled from
Shakai Taishuto for united front activities, 1938; chairman, Ibaraki branch,
Nippon Momin Rumiai, 1946; member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47.
KIKUGAWA Tadao
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo; member,
Central Executive Comittee, Hippon Shakaito; secretary general, National Mine
Workers' Union, affiliated with the Rodo Rumiai Sodāmei.
Background. Born 1901, Khime; graduate of Tokyo Dmperial University, 1926;
member, Nippon Rodo Sodomei, 1926; member, Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Domei; president,
Kanto Kava Giko Kumiai (Kanto Leather Workers' Union), 1932; manager, Zen Mippon
Rodo Sodome!, 1936; member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaitō, 1946-47
RESTRICTED

=== Page 622 === (confidence 0.96)
-287-
RESTRICTED
KIKUHAMI Katsumi
Current Activities. Labor representative, Central Labor Relations Committee;
member, Mippon Ayösanto.
Background. Born 1904; graduate of Kensai Gakuin; reporter and foreiga
correspondent, Asahi Shimbun; president, All-Japan Wewspaper and Redio Workers'
Union, 19k6; president, Zenkoku Sangyóbetau Rödo Kumiai Kaig1, 19h6-47; umswocessful
candidate for House of Councillors, April 1947.
KIMURA K1hachiro
Current Activities. Nomber, House of Councillors, from national constitmency;
member, Minshu Shugi Kagakusha Ayökai; member, Temporary Central Executive Committee,
Rodōsha Nominto.
Background. Born 1900; graduate, Keio University; member, Central Committee,
Nippon Shakaitō, 1947; deputy chairman, Political Affairs Research Committee, Mippon
Shakaitß, 1948; sponsor of Ränō Renrakukai, May 1948; seceded from Mippon Shakaito,
July 1948; joined Independent Club, House of Councillors, October 19k8.
KIMURA Sakae
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, Shimane; member, Shimane,
District Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1910; middle school education; clerk in store and commercial
firm; chief secretary, Shimane branch, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai, l947; sponsor of Rōnō
Renrakukai, May 1948.
KIN Tenkai
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and Political Bureau, Wippon
Kyōsanto.
Background. Born c. 1900, Korea; arrived in Japan in 1920, entered Mippon
University; 1927, director of Korean Labor Federation in Japen and of Japan Bureau
of Korean Communist Party; imprisoned 1929-36 and 1937-45; chief of Korean Department,
Nippon Kyosantō, 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 623 === (confidence 0.94)
-288-
RESTRICTED
KI8HDNOTO Sh1goo
Carrent Activities. Member, Cemtral Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1904, Hyogo; primary education; 1925-26, studied in
Moscow; 1926, joined Nippon Eyōsanto, became member of executive committee of
Kanto bramoh; imprisoned 1932-39 and 1942-45; cendidate member, Central
Committee, Mippon Kyosanto, 19k6; unsuocessful Communist Diet Candidate,
April 1946.
KOIZOMI Hidekichi
Current Activities. Member, House of Coumcillors, from national
constituency; chairman, Zen Wippon Kaiin Kumiai (All-Japan Seamen's Union);
chairman, Upper House Diet Members' Committee, Nippon Shakaito.
Background. Born 1879, Dbaraki; graduate of Tokyo Higher Merchant
Marine Schoo1, 1902; became ship captain, Mitsui Trading Company, 1903;
president, Society of Meroantile Marine Officers, 1935; visisted the United
States es a delegate to the International Labor Conference, 1937; president,
Mitaui Wooden Shipbuilding Company, l9hh; direotor, Mitsui Shipping Company,
1944; auditor, Mippon Shakaitö, 1947.
KOMNO Yojiro
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and Political Bureau,
Nippon Ryosanto.
Background. Born 1879, Yamagata; attended Yamagata Higber Sohool; 1929,
joined Nippon Kyosanto; l930 became,member of Tokyo District Committee of Nippon
Kyosanto; June 1930, went to Noscow; 1931, attended meetings with Chinese
Communist leaders in Shanghai; l932, became member of Central Committee of
Hippon Kyosantō; l932-k5, imprisoned; member, Secretariat, Nippon Kyosantō,
19h6-47; chief of Tawata branch, Nippon Iyosanto, 1947; unsucoessful Communist
Diet candidata, April 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 624 === (confidence 0.97)
- 289 -
RESTRICTED
KONO Mitsu
Current Activities. Purged.
Background. Born 1897, Chiba; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University, 1922;
taught at Osaka Labor Sokool amd Doshisha University, 1924-27; 1926, chief of
Investigation Section, Mippon Ronōtō; chief secretary, Mippon Taishitō, 1928; 1930,
member, Central Executive Committee, Zenkoku Taishutō; 1933, chairman of Central
Executive Committee, Zenkoku Rödo Kumiai Domei; member of Central Exsoutive
Committee of Shaka1 Taishuto and a supporter of A80 Hisashi; 1935, Japanese
representative to International Labor Conference at Geneva; 1936, vice-president,
Zen Nippon Rōdō Sodame1; 1939, leader of a group that seceded from the Zen Nippon
Rodo Sodomei to join the govermment-sponsored labor front Sempo; director of
Investigation Council of IRApS; member, Arrangements Committee, Hippon Shakaito,
1945; elected to Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaits, November 1945;
purged July 1946; olocted to Diet in 1930, 1936, 1937, and 1942.
KURAHARA Korendo (Koroto)
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and chief of Cultural
Department, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 1902, Tokyo; graduated from Russian Language section,
Tokyo Foreign Language Sohool, 1923; studied in Noscow, 1925-26; active in
proletarian culture groups; went to Moscow in 1930; imprisoned 1932-40; sponsor,
Shin Nippon Bungakukai; 1945; candidate member, Central Coimittee, Mippon Kyosantō,
1945; unsuccessful candidate for House of Counc1llors, 1947.
KURODA Hisao
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Okayama; chairman,
Nippon Nomin Kumiai; chairman, Temporary Central Executive Committee, Rodosha
Nominto.
Background. Born 1889, Okayema; graduated from Tokyo Dmperial University, 1923;
Joined Rodo Nómintō, 1926; in July 1928, one of organizers of Musan Taishutō; in
December l928, one of organizers of Nippon Taishuto; expelled from Nippon Taishutō,
1929; one of organizers of Nippon Musantő, of which he became secretary; 1931, joined
Zenkoku Ronö Taishutō and became a member of its Central Committee; l936, joined
Shakai Taishuto and beceme a member of its Central Committee; member, Central
Executive Committee, Zon Nippon Nämin Kumiai; 1937, arrested for participation in
the umited front movement and expelled from Shakai Taishuto; member, Central Executive
Committee, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1946-47; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon
Shakaitō, 1945-48; chairman, Youth Committee, Shakaito; 1946-47; expelled from Shakaitō,
July 1948; olocted to the D1et, 1936, 1937, 1946, and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 625 === (confidence 0.97)
- 290 -
REBTRICTED
MASAKI Kiyosh1
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Diet Committee, Mippon Shakaito; member, House of Representatives, from Hokiaido.
Background. Born 1900, Fukuoka; graduate of Ohara Business Sohool; 1926,
member, Executive Committee, Rodō Nominto; l927, arrested and sentenosd to two
years' imprisomment; l931, president of Sapporo branch and member of Executive
Committee, Shin Rönoto; l936, member of executive committee of Hokkaido branch,
Shakai Taishuto; 1942, member of IRAPS; 1945, counselor, Hokkaido branch of IRAA;
1945, standing director, Hokkaido branch, Dai Nippon Seijikai (Great Japan
Political Party); direotor, Hokkaido branch of Sampo (the patriotic labor front);
elected to Sapporo assembly in 1934 and 1938; •lected to Hokkaido assembly in
1936 and 1940; Shakaitō elect1on secretary in Hokkaido aree, 1947; chairmen, House
of Representatives Transportation and Traffic Committee, Jume 1947-April 19h8;
Parlismentary Vice Minister of Commeroe and Industry, April-October 1948; elected
to the D1et, 1942, 1946, and 1947.
MASUDA Kakunosuke
Current Activities. Msmber of Control Committee and national organizer in
Tohoku area, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1910; graduated from Aoyama Gakuin, 1928; joined Hippon
Kyōsanto, 1932; sentenced to five years' imprisonment, 1933.
MATSUMOTO J11ch1ro
Current Activities. Adviser to Nippon Shakaito; chairman Zenkoku Buraku
Kaihō Remei; vice-president, House of Councillors.
Background. Born 1887, Fukuoka; primary education; 1922, one of organizers
of Zenkoku Suiheisha, a society for achieving ©quality for the eta; l925, elected
chairman of Zenkoku Suiheisha; 1938, adviser, Dai Nippon Nomin Kumiai; member of
Abe fastion of Shakai Taishutō; 1940, expelled from Shakai Taishut8; May 1940, a
leader in the attempt to organize the Kinrō Kökuminto; member, Arrangemants
Committee, Mippon Shabaitō, 1945; purged in March 1946, order rescinded in April
1946; 1928, umsuccossful Rōdo Nāminto Diet candidate; elocted to Diet, 1930, 1937,
1942, and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 626 === (confidence 0.97)
-291-
RESTRICTED
MATBUMOTO JunzO
Current Activities. Memher of Central Erecutive Committee and chief of
Shimane branch, Nippon Shakaito; member, House of Representatives, from Shimane.
Background. Born 189k, Shimane; attended Keio University; 1923, eotive in
proletarian cultural organisations; l927, chief editor of Nippon Ronoto paper;
1930, chief of Education Section, Zenkoku Taishuto; chief of Propaganda Section,
Shaka1 Taishuto, 1932; elected to Tokyo Prefoctural Assembly in 1936; chairmen,
Culture and Education Committes, House of Representatives, 1947-Ootober 1948;
•locted to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
MATSUMOTO Saneki (Mimasu)
Current Activities. Member, Contral Committee, Nippon Kyosanto; leader,
Okinawan League.
Background. Born 1904, Okinawa; discharged from job because of strike
activities, 1924; arrested 1928; joined Nippon Kyosanto, 1931; imprisoned 1933-35
and 1935-36; vice chier, Farmers' Department, Nippon Kyosanto, 1947; unsucoessful
candidate, House of Councillors, 1947.
MATSUMOTO So1chiro
Current Activities. Member, Control Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born l906; expelled from college for radical activities, 1926;
director, Yawata branch, Rōdō Námintō, l926; sentenced to three years' imprisonment
in 1928 and again in 1935; joined Nippon Kyōsanto, 1938; arrested and sentenced
to eight years' imprisomment, 1938.
MATSUNAGA Yoshio
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Saitama.
Background. Born 1891, Aichi; graduated from Tokyo Imperial Univeraity, 1917;
one of organizors of Shakai Minshuto in l926, became chief of its Investigation
Section; 1932, member, Central Executive Committee, Shakai Taishuto; elected to
Tokyo Mumicipal Assembly, l937; elected secretary of Nippon Nomin Kumiai Sodomsi,
1942; member of Abe faction of Shakai Taishuto; l940, expelled from Shakai Taishutō;
member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47; vice-president of
Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai and chairmen or 1ts Saitame branch, 19h7; chairman, House of
Representatives Justice Comittee, June l947-April l948; Parliamentary Vice Minister,
Attorney Genoral's Office, June-October 1948; elected to the Diet, 1932, 1937, 1946,
and 1947.
REBTRICTED

=== Page 627 === (confidence 0.96)
-292 -
REBTRICTED
MATSUOKA Komak1ch1
Current Activities. Speaker of the House of Representatives; adviser, Mippon
Shakalto; president, Rodo Kmii Bōdčmei.
Background. Born 1888, Tottori; elementary education; 1914, joined Yuaikai;
1918, became manager of Yuaikai central office; one of organisers of Dai Mippon
Rödō Södāme1 in 1921, becoming its president; resigned the presidency in 1923
during the period of leftist domination of the Sodāmei; one of organizers and
member of Erecutive Committee of Shakai Minshuto in 1926; 1927, became manager and
treasurer of Dai Mippon Rodō Söd&mei; 1928, attended International Labor Conference
at Geneva; 1932, became president of Nippon Rödo Kmia1; 1936, president of Zenkoku
Rodō Sodamei; opposed movement for the dissolution of independent trade umions and
their merger into a govermment-sponsored labor front; adviser, Shakai Taishato; was
one of the leaders of the attempt to organize the Kimro Kokuminto; 1945, member,
Arrangements Committee, Nippon Shakaito; labor representative, Central Labor
Relations Committee, 1947; olooted to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
MATSUZAWA HaJimo
Current Activities. Member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Lower House Members' Committee, Kakushin Shakaito; member, House of Representatives,
from Yamanashi.
Background. Born 1895; elementary school education; 1946, chief secretary,
Tamanashi branch, Nippon Shakaito; l9h6, ohief of education coamittee, Kanto branch,
Wippon Nāmin Kumiai; joined Zenkoku Mömin Kumiai, 1947; seceded from Shakaitō,
Jamuary 1948; 0lected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
MIKI Jiro
Current Activities. Member, House of Counoillors, from Kanagawa; chairman, Kanagawa
branch, Nippon Shakaitō and Rodo Ktmiai Sodome1.
Background. Born l885, Tokyo; olementary sohool education; joined Yuaikai
while working at 1ron foumdry, 1912; member, Nippon Rodo Sodomei, 1925; accompanied
delegate MATsUOKA Komakichi to International Labor Conference, Geneva, 1929; member,
Central Committee, Shakai Minshuto, 193l; mayor, Kawasaki City; member, Kavasaki
Numicipal Assembly; chief, Tokyo Steel Workers' Union; member, Central Commaittee,
Mippon Shakaits, 1946-47; member, Central Soreening Committee, 1947; seoretary-
treasurer, Rodo Kumiai Sodome1, 1947-48.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 628 === (confidence 0.97)
-293-
RESTRICTED
MITAMORA Shiro
Current Activities. Labor representative, Cabinet Payroll Commission.
Background. Born 1896, Ishikara; graduated from Osaka Polioemsm's Training
Sohoo1, 1916; 192l, joined a priaters' umion affiliated with Mippon Rōdo Baāmei;
1925, seceded from Nippon Rōdo Bodāmei and was one of organizers of Mippon Rodo
Kumiai Hyogikal, becoming a member of its Central Committee; arrested in May 1926;
Joined Nippon Kybsanto, December 1926; 1927, became a member of Central Committee
of Nippon Kyosanto; l928, beoame Hokkaido district manager of Mippon Kyōsanto;
arrested in l929 and sentenced to life imprisonment; renounced Communiam while in
prison, 1933; released from prison, 1945; member, Central Exeoutive Committee,
Minshu Jimmin Remme1, 19k6-47; business managor and president, Zen Nippon Rödō
Rimiai Kaigi, 1946-47; unsuccessful candidate for House of Councillors, 1947.
MIYAKI Shoichi
Current Activities. Chairman, Niigata branah, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1900, Gifu; graduated from Waseda University, 1923; joined
Nippon Nomin Kumia1, 1923; leader of Nippon Rönōtō, 1926-28; leader, Nippon Taishüto,
1928-30; member, Central Executive Committee, Zenkoku Rono Taishuto, 1931-32; member,
Shakai Taishuto, Aso faction, 1932-40; secretary general, Tokyo branch, Wippon Momin
Kumiai, 1938; purged 1940, cleared June 1948; elocted to the Diet, 1937.
MIYAMOTO Kenj1
Current Activities. Chairman of Control Committee and member of Central
Committee and Political Bureau, Wippon Ayosants; editor of party organ Zen'ei
(Vanguard).
Background. Born 1908, Yamaguchi; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University,
1931; joined Nippon Kyosantō, May l931; active in proletarian cultural organizations;
1932, member of Propaganda Section of Nippon Kyōsanto; 1933, became chief of
Propaganda Section, Mippon Kyōsanto; imprisoned 1933-45; chairman, Propaganda
Department, Hippon Kyösantō, 1945; chairman, Zen'ei and Culture Departments,
Bippon Kyosanto, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 629 === (confidence 0.97)
-294 -
RESTRICTED
MIZUHASHI Tosaku
Current Activities. Member, House of Counoillors, from national constituency;
mber of the Centrai Exooutive Comittee and ohief of the Shinjuku branch of the
All-Japan Govermment Commnmications Workers' Union; member, Erecutive Committee,
Zenkoku Sangyōbetau Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi.
Background. Born 1895; an employee of the Ministry of Commnmications for
30 years; Parliementary Vice Minister of Labor, April 1948; seceded from Nippon
Shakaitō, June 1948; joined Independent Club, House of Counc1llors, October 1948.
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō;
momber, House of Representatives, from Kyoto.
Background. Born 1897, Kyoto; graduated from Kyoto Imperial University, 1921;
1919, head of legal department, Kyoto branch of Yuaikai; 1925, adviser, Nippon
Nomin Kumiai; l926, member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of Kyoto
branoh, Rodo Nominto; 1929, organized a short-lived minor proletarian party; 1930,
one of organizers of Zenkoku Taishuto and member of its Central Kxecutive Committee;
Zenkoku Ronō Taishuto; elocted to Kyoto Mumicipal Assembly in 1933 and 1937; 1933,
member, Central Executive Committee, Shakai Taishuto, and member of Abe faction;
orpelled from Shakai Taishutō in l940; one of leaders of the attempt to organize
the Kinro Kokuminto; In 1940 joined IRAA and later IRAPS; 1945, president of Kyoto
Bar Association; member, Arrangements Committee, Nippon Shakaito, l945; chairman of
Diet Committee and adviser to Political Affairs Research Committee, Nippon Shakaitō,
1946; Minister of Commerce and Industry, May 1947-October 1948; elected to the Diet,
1928, 1936, 1937, 1942, 1946, and 1947.
MORITO Tatsuo
Current Activities. Member, Central Rrecutive Committee, Nippon Shakaito;
member, House of Representatives, from Hiroshima.
Background. Born 1888, Hiroshima; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University,
19l4; erpelled from faculty of Tokyo Imporial University for essay on Kropotkin
and imprisoned for three months; 1921-23, studied in Europe end United States;
1923, became affiliated with Ohara Institute for Research on Social Problems and
later became chief of its Osaka office; politically affiliated vith Zenkoku Taishūto;
chairman, Political Affairs Investigation Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47;
publio representative, Cebinet Payroll Commission, 1947; adviser, Zenkoku Nomin
Kumia1, 1947; Ninister of Education, May 1947-October 1948; elocted to the Diet,
1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 630 === (confidence 0.97)
-295-
REBTRIOTED
MUTO Unjuro
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Gumma; chairmen,
Control Committee, Nippon Shakaito; chairman, Erecutive Committee, All-Japan Tenants'
Association (Zen Mippon Shakuyanin Kumiai).
Background. Born l902, Gumma; graduate of Waseda University, law department;
1927, Joined Jiyū Hōsō Dan (Free Bar Association); member, Central Committee, Mippon
Shakaitō, 1946-47; counselor, Jiyū Hōsō Dan, 1946; olected to the D1et, 1946 and 1947.
NABEYAMA Sadachika
Current Activities. Organizer, Central Political-Econcmio Research Institute.
Background. Born 1900, Fukuoka; joined Yualkai and later became full time
worker for Dai Nippon Rodo Sodamei; became member of Central Committee of Mippon
Rodō Kumiai Hyogika1, 1925; 1926, joined Nippon Kyōsantō and went to U8sR; 1927,
returned to Japan and became member of Central Committee of Nippon Kyosanto; 1928,
fled to Shanghai to avoid arrest; 1929, active in reorganization of Kyosanto,
arrested; renounced Commmmism while in prison, 1933; went to China; repatriated in
1946; one of organizers of Rōnō Zeneitö, 1946 and 1947.
NAGAE Kazuo
Current Activities. Under indictment for complicity in Toyo Flour Mill bribery
scandal.
Baokground. Born 1902, Gifu; graduate of Kansai Gakuin University (Hyogo);
member, Hyogo Prefectural Assembly; chairman, Kobe Municipal Assembly; member of
Central Committee and chief secretary of Hyogo branch, Dai Nippon Rōdō Kumiai
Sodomei; 1931-32, member, Central Committee, Zenkoku Rono Taishuto; member, Central
Executive Committee, Shakai Taishuto; member, IRAA, IRA Youth Corps, and Dai Nippon
Seijikai; chairman, Hyogo branch, Rodō Kumiai Sodomei, 1945; member, Central Committee,
Wippon Shakaito, 19h6-47; Parliementary Vice Minieter of Education, 1947-48; Minister
of Agriculture and Forestry, March-October l948; resigned from Nippon Shakaito and
House of Representat1ves, November 1948; olected to the Diet, 1937, 1946, and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 631 === (confidence 0.96)
- 296 -
REBTRICTED
NAKAHARA Kenj1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Okayama; member,
Temporary Central Executive Committee, Rodosha Nămintō.
Background. Born 1897, Okayema; elementary education; member, central
executive committee of Okayama branch, Rodo Mominto; member, central executive
committee of Okayama branch, Shakai Minshuto; expelled from Shakai Taishuto for
popular front activities, 1938; imprisoned 1939-k2; 19h6, chairman of preparatory
committee of Okayame branch, Rodo Kiumiai Sodomei; member, Central Committee,
Nippon Shakaito, 1946-48; expelled from the Wippon Shakaito, July 1948.
NAKAMIRA Takaiohi
Current Activities. Purged.
Background. Born 1897, Tokyo; graduated from Waseda University, 1923; member,
Rodo Nominto, 1926; aud1tor, Shin Rimōtō, 1929; 1930, member, Central Executive
Committee, Shin Rönōto; member, Zenkoku Rōnō Taishuto; member of Central Executive
Committee and chief of Youth Section, Shakai Taishuto; member of Aso faction of
Shakai Taishuto; member of Toa Remmei (East Asia League); adviser, Tokyo-to and
Kanda ward branches of IRAA; elected to Tokyo Municipal Assembly, 1937; member of
Central Executive Committee and chairman of Youth Committee, Nippon Shakaitō,
November 1945-Jume 1946; auditor, Hippon Shakaitō, 1946; member of Central Executive
Committee and director of Legal Affairs Section, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, l947; purged,
April 1947; olooted to the D1et, 1937 and 1946.
NAKANO Shigeharu
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency;
member, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1902, Fukui; graduate of Tokyo Imperial University; member,
Japan Proletarian Arts League, 1926; member, Shin Nippon Bungakukai (New Japan
Litarary Society); l947, vice-chief of Cultural Department, Nippon Kyosantō;
unsuocessful Diet candidate, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 632 === (confidence 0.98)
-297-
RESTRICTED
NISHDMURA E11ch1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Osaka; member,
Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; indicted for perjury, July 1948.
Background. Born 1904, Nara; Shanghai Higher National School; member, Sakai
Municipal Assembly, 1932; branch manager, Showa Life Insurance Company, 1933-41;
member, Executive Committee, Shakai Taishuto; director, Osaka branch, Japan Asia
Development League (Nippon Toa Domei); chairman, Democratic Scientific and
Economic Research Institute (Minshu Kagaku Keizai Kenkyukai); member, Central
Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47; vice chairman, Political Affairs Investigation
Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1947; vice chairman, House of Representatives Currency
Stabilization Commission, l947; Parliamentary Vice Minister, Economic Stabilization
Board, Apr1l-0ctober 1948; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
NISHIO Suehiro
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Osaka; under
indictment for complicity in the Showa Denko scandal.
Background. Born 1890, Kagawa; higher elementary school graduate; 1914,
joined Yuaikai; 192l, arrested while participating in strike activities; 1924,
member of Executive Committee of Kansai branch of Da1 Nippon Rodo Sodomei and a
delegate to International Labor Conference at Geneva; olected headquarters manager
and treasurer of Sodome1, 1924; 1925, as Sodome1 representative on the committee
preparing for the organization of a proletarian party, opposed admission of left-
wing elements; l926, one of organizers and member of Central Executive Committee,
Shakai Minshuto; 1937, vice-president of Zenkoku Rodō Södomei; expelled from Diet
in 1938 for speech demanding a "strong man like Hitler, Mussolini, or Stalin" as
premier, but reelected in 1939 by-election; a member of Abe faction of Shakai
Taishuto; expelled from Shakai Taishuto in l94o; active in the attempt to organize
the Kinrō Kokumintō, but became a member of TRAA later in 1940; 1942, Joined IRAPS;
Becretary general, Nippon Shakaito, 1947-47; Chief Cabinet Secretary, May 1947-
February 1948; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaito, January-
September 1948; Deputy Premier, March-July 1948; resigned from Central Executive
Committee, Shakaito, September 1948; res1gned from Shakaitő, October 1948; expelled
from Sodomo1, October 1948.
NISHIZAWA Ryuj1
Current Activities. Member, Control Committee, Nippon Kyōsanto.
Background. Born 1903; 1927, Joined Commnist Fine Arts Loague; 1928,
active in Kanto Metal Workers' Union; 1929, imprisoned; 1931, Joined Nippon
Kyōsanto; imprisoned 1934-45; 1946, member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 633 === (confidence 0.96)
-298-
RESTRICTED
MOSMIZO Masaru (Kateu)
Current Activities. Member, Central Erecutive Committee, Nippon Shakaito;
secretary general, Hippon Nomin Kumiai; member, House of Representatives, from
Nagano.
Background. Born 1898, Nagano; studied at Hose1 University; 1926; an
organizer and member of Central Committee, Shakai Minshuto; 1930, seceded from
Shakai Minshuto and joined Zenkoku Minshuto; 1931, elected to Nagano Prefectural
Assembly; member of Aso faction and of Central Committee of Shakai Taishuto; in 1939
a strong supporter of union between Töhökai and Shakai Taishuto; member,
Arrangements Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1945; member, Central Executive Committee,
Nippon Nomin Kumiai, l946; vice chairman and chief of Politisal Section, Nippon
Nomin Kumiai, 1947; chairman, House of Representatives Agriculture and Forestry
Committee, 1947-48; chairman, Diet Members' Committee, Nippon Shakaitō, 1947;
Minister without Portfolio, March-October 1948; elected to the Diet, 1937, 1946,
and 1947.
FOSAKA Ryuko
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and chief of Women's
Department, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1896, Kobe; graduated from Tokyo Girls' Higher Normal School;
married W06AkA Sanzo in 1917, studied in London with him; 1923, joined the N1ppon
Kyōsanto; became a leader of women's department of Dai Nippon Rodō Sodomei; joined
Nippon Rodō Rumiai Hyogikai after the split in Södome1; arrested in 1928; went to
Moscow, 1931; returned to Japan, January 1947.
NOSAKA SanzO (OKANO Susmu)
Current Activities. Member of Political Bureau, Secretariat, and Central
Committee, chief of Propaganda and Investigation Section, and principal of party
echool, Nippon Kyōsanto; member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born 1892, Yamaguohi; graduated from Ke1o University, 1917;
became member of Yualkai staff; 1920, went to London as representative of Yualkai
to study the British trade-union movament; l92l, joined British Commmist Party and
was deported from England; 1922, went to Moscow, returned to Japen, and joined
Nippon Kyōsanto; became head of Investigation Section of Nippon Rodō Södōmei; l923,
Imprisoned; l925, active in Rodo Nōminto and ono of leaders of Nippon Rodo Kumiai
Hyogikai after the split in the Sodomoi; 1928-29, imprisoned; 1931, went to Moscow
as representative of Nippon Kyosanto; l935, became member of Executive Committee of
Commmist International; arrived in Yenan, May 1943, and organized the Nippon Jimmin
Kaihō Rosme1 (Japanese People's Emancipation League); returned to Japan, January 1946;
olocted to the D1et, 1946 and 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 634 === (confidence 0.97)
-299-
RESTRICTED
OKADA Bunkichi
Current Activities. Member, Control Committee, Mippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 1901, Tottori; primary education; 1931, became director of
Central Committee, Japan Militant Atheists' League; l932, Joined Young Comamist
League; 1933-39, imprisoned; member of Socretariat and Central Committee, Nippon
Kyōsantō, 1946-47.
OKADA Haruo
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Hokkaido, member,
Temporary Central Exocutive Committee, Rodosha Nominto.
Baokground. Born 19l4, Hokkaido; graduate of Otaru Higher Commercial Sohool;
member, Hokkaido Prefectural Assembly, 1940-45; member, IRAA; vice chief, general
affairs department, Hokkaido branch of IRApS; member, Central Committee, Nippon
Shakaitō, 1946-47; deputy chairman of Shakaitō Youth Committee, 1947; chairman,
Bhakait5 Youth Committee, 1948; sponsor of Ronō Renrakuka1, May 1948; expelled from
Wippon Shakaitō, July 1948.
OKADA Soj1
Current Activities. Member, House of Coumcillors, from national comstitasmoy;
member, Nippon Shakaito; member of Central Executive Committee and chief of Information
and Propaganda Department, Nippon Nomin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1902, Tokyo; graduate of Tokyo Daperial University; adviser,
Ohara Social Problems Research Institute; member, Ronō-ha; arrested for popular front
activities, 1937; 1946, one of organizers of Nippon Nömin Kumiai; unsuccessful
candidate, House of Representatives, 1946.
OSHDMA Yoshiharu
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, Guma; member, Cemtral
Executive Committes, Nippon Shakaito; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon
Homin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1894; higher elemeutary school education; chief, Guma
branch, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1946; vice-president, Guma Prefectural Agricultural
Association; member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaito, l946-47; Parliamentary
Vice Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Apri1-October 1948; elected to the Diet,
1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 635 === (confidence 0.97)
- 300 -
RESTRICTED
OYA Shozo
Current Activities. Hember, House of Representatives, Osaka.
Background. Born 1893, Mie; graduate of Nishinoda Trade School; member,
Osaka Mumicipal Assembly, 1929-46; member, Shaka1 Minshuto, Shakai Taishatō, and
Osaka branch of IRAA; member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47;
member, Central Comittee, Rodo Aumial Sodomei; Parliamentary Vice Minister of
Labor, Apr11-0ctober 1948; olooted to the Diot, 1946 and 1947.
OYAMA Druo
Current Activities. Lecturer, Waseda University.
Background. Born 1880, Hyogo; graduate of Kobe School of Commeroe (1901)
and Waseda University (l905); postgraduate study at the University of Chicago and
the University of Munich; professor, Waseda University, 1915-17, 1921-27;
president, Rōdō Nōmintō, 1926-28; organizer and leader of Shin Ranōto, 1929-30;
fled to the United States, 1931; returned to Japan, October 1o47; umsucoessful Diet
candidate, 1928; olected to Diet, 1930.
SANO Gaku (Manabu)
Current Activities. Director, Japan Political and Economic Research Institute.
Background. Born 1892, Oita; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University, 1917;
1922, assisted in organization of Suiheisha and joined Nippon Kyōsantō, becoming
member of its Central Committee; imprisoned briefly in 1923; l924, opposed the
proposal for dissolution of Nippon Kyosanto; attended Fifth World Congress of the
Comintern in June and July 1924; 1925, managing editor of Commmmist paper Musansha
Shimbun; 1926, imprisoned for ten months; 1928, attended Sixth World Congross of
the Comintern; went to Shanghai, arrested there in 1929 and removed to prison in
Japan; renounced Communimm in prison in 1933; chairman of Rōnō Zeneitő (Labor-
Farmer Vanguard Party), and head of 1ts Political Bureau, 1947; unsuccessful
Diot candidate, 1947.
SATAKE Harukd (So1k1)
Current Activities. Secretary general, Kakushin Shakaitō; vice-president,
Zenkoku Homin Kumiai; member, House of Representatives, from Kochi.
Background. Born 1896, Kochi; graduated from Chuo Uaiversity, 1919; joined
Shaka1 Minshuto, 1927; 1928, became president of Koohi branch of Shakai Minahutō;
1934, ©lected mamber of Central Committee of Shakai Taishuto and heed of Kochi
branch; 19hh, chairman of Kochi Bar Association; eleoted to Kochi Mumicipal Assembly
in 1933, Koch1 Prefectural Assembly in 1935; counselor, Kochi branch, IRAA, 1941;
member, Preparatory Committee, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 19h6; member of Central Executive
Committee and chairman of Diot Members' Soc1oty, Hippon Shakaito, 19h6 and 1947;
saceded from Nippon Nomin Kumiai, 1947; Parliamentary Vice Minister of Justice, June
1947-Jamuary 1948; secoded Prom Nippon Shakait5, Jamuary 1948; unsuocessful Diet
candidate, 19k2; olocted to the Diot, 1936, 1937, 1946, and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 636 === (confidence 0.97)
-301-
RESTRICTED
SATAKE Shinich1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, Hiroshima; member
Nippon Shakaito; member, Contral Executive Committee, Mippon Mumin Emial;
organizor, Shutaisei Kakuritsu Domei.
Background. Born l900; graduate of higher school; member, Central Committee,
Shakai Taishutő; expelled from Shakai Taishutō in 1938 for popular front activities;
member, Central Committee, Rodo Kumiai Sodômei; chairman, Hiroshima branoh, Mippon
Nömin Kumiai.
SATO Satoji
Current Activities. Sentenced to four years' imprisonment for statememte
contrary to occupation policy; member of Central Committee and Hokuriku Regional
Committee, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 190l, N1igata; primary oducation; joined Nōmin Rōdöto, 1925;
joined Nippon Nōmintō, 1926; Joined Nippon Kyösanto, 1928; 1mprisoned 1929-32 and 19k0-
44; momber, Contral Committee, Nippon Nomin Kumiai, l947; unsucoessful Diet candidate,
1947.
SHIDA Shigoo
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and Political Bureau, Nippon
Kyosanto.
Background. Born l9ll, Hyogo; primary school education; became active in trade-
union movement in 1931 and later joined Wippon Kyosanto; imprisoned 1933-41 and
December 1941-August 1942; candidate member, Central Committee, Hippon Kyosanto, 1946.
SHIGA Yoshio
Current Activities. Member of Political Bureau and Central Committee and
joint chief of Akahata Department, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 190l, Yamaguchi; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University in
1925; joined Nippon Kyōsanto, 1923, 1925-26, served in army as volunteer; 1926,
forced to resign from Central Committee of Nippon Ayosanto as a follower of
Fukumoto; 1927, became head of Political Bureau and editor of party organs Marxism
and Musansha Shimbun; 1928-45, imprisoned; oleoted to Diet, 1946; unsuccessful Diet
candidate, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 637 === (confidence 0.97)
- 302 -
RESTRICTED
SHIMAGAMI Zengoro
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Rodo Kumiai Sodomei;
a leader of Tokyo Comnmication Workers' Union and of Federation of Commamication
Worikers: Unions; chairman, Education Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; member, House of
Representatives, from Tokyo; labor representative, Central Labor Relations
Committee.
Background. Born 1903, Akita; primary education; 1920-26, active in Tokyo
transport workers' union; l926, became member of Central Committee of Rodo Nominto;
1937, member, Election Committee, Nippon Musanto; 1937, arrested for united front
activities; l947, member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaito; sponsor of Rōnō
Renrakukai, May 1948; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1946; elected to Diet, 1947.
SHINDO Kanj1
Current Activities. Member, Jiyū Hōso Dan (Free Bar Association).
Background. Born 1897, Aich1; 1922, admitted to the bar; became member of
Jiyu Hoso Dan; 1926, Joined Rodō Nomintō; one of organizers of Shakuyanin Kumiai
(House Tenants' League); active in attempts to reorganize Rōdo Náminto in 1928;
became treasurer of Shin Ronoto in 1929, resigned in 1930; 1mprisoned 1933-35;
unsucceseful Commumist Diet candidate, April 1946.
SHIRAKAWA So11ch1
Current Activities. Member of Central Committee and chairman of Tokyo
District Committee, Nippon Kyosanto.
Background. Born 1902, Nagasaki; middle school graduate; joined trade-union
movement, 1927; joined Nippon Kyōsanto, 1932; 1932-39, imprisoned.
SUGIYAMA MotoJiro
Current Activities. Purged; member, Osaka branch, Zenkoku Namin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1885, Osaka; graduate of agricultural college and of
Theological Seminary of Tohoku College; an organizer of Nippon Nāmin Kumiai in 1922
and its president from 1922 to 1928; active in organization of Nomin Rodōto, 1925;
president of Rōdo Nōminto in 1926, but resigned to join Nippon Ronōto; 1928, one
or organizers of Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai, serving as its president; adviser to Nippon
Taishuto in 1928, Zenkoku Taishūto in 1930; became pres1dent of Dai Nippon Nomin
Kumiai; member of Aso faction of Shakai Taishuto; member of IRAPS; chief of Union
Section, Nippon Shakaito, and member or Central Executive Committee, Nippon Nomin
Kumia1 until his disqualification in February 1946; elected to Diet in 1932, 1936,
1937, and 1942.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 638 === (confidence 0.98)
-303-
RESTRICTED
SUZUKI Mosaburo (Shigasaburo)
Current Activities. Hember of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Political Affairs Research Committee of Wippon Shakaitō; member, House of
Representatives, from Tokyo; chairman, Budget Committee, House of Representatives,
May 1948.
Background. Born 1893, Aichi; graduated from Waseda University, 1915; after
World War I, a member of the Japanese group of the American Communist Party in
New York and sent to USSR as its representative; returned to Japan in 1919 and joined
Nippon Kyōsantō; active in organization of Nōmin Rōdōtō in l925 and Rōdō Nāmintō in
1926, chief secretary of Musan Taishutō in 1928; December 1928, member, Central
Executive Committee, Nippon Taishuto; 1929, expelled from Nippon Taishutō, organized
Tokyō Musanto; l930; member of Central Executive Committee and chief of Policy
Committee, Zenkoku Rōnō Taishutō; l936, expelled from Shakai Taishutō; an organizer
and leader of Zenkoku Hyögikai and its successor, the Ronō Musan Kyōgikai; chief
secretary of Nippon Musantő, February 1937; arrested December 1937; elected to Tokyo
Municipal Assembly, March 1937; chairman, Economic Reconstruction Conference, 1947;
chairman Political and Economic Research Institute, 1947; chairmen, House of
Representatives Budget Committee, June 1947-February 1948 and May-October, 1948;
unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1937; elected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
SUZUKI Sei1chi
Current Activities. Member, House of Councillors, from national constituency;
member, Temporary Central Executive Committee, Rodosha Nominto.
Background. Born 1904; elementary school oducation; employee, Tokyo Railway
Company; chairman, Central Executive Committee, National Federation of Government
Railway Workers' Unions (Kokutetsu Rōdo Kumiai) until May 1947; member, Central
Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaltō, January-July l948; seceded from Shakaitō,
July 1948; Joined Independent Club, House of Councillors, October 1948.
SUZUKI Yoghio
Current Activitios. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō;
member, House of Representatives, from Fukushima.
Backgroind. Born 1894, Fukushima; graduatod from Tokyo Imperial University,
1919; 1919-40, taught law at var1oue un1versities; 1940, defended J. R. Young of
the Japan Chronicle when Young was tried for violations of the Army Criminal Code;
1942, campaigned for KATAYAMA Tetau; chairman, Education Committee, Nippon Shakaito,
1946-47; Minister of Justice, May 1947-Fobruary 1948; Attorney General, Maroh-0ctober
1948; el0ctod to the D10t, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 639 === (confidence 0.97)
-304-
REOTRICTED
TAHARA Haruji
Current Aotivities. Purged.
Background. Born 1900, Fukucka; studied at Waseda, Missouri, and Denver
Universities; 1932, member of Aso faction and of Central Committee of Shaka1
Taishuto; 1934, organizer and chief of Fukuoka branch of Nippon Nōmin Kumiai;
1943-44, employed by Japanese Navy to investigate immigration possibilities in
Southeast Asia; 1946, member of Central Executive Committee and chairman of
Organization Committee, Nippon Shakaitő; president of Nippon Gyomin Kumiai
(Japan Fishermen's Union); member of Central Executive Committee of Nippon Nömin
Kumiai; purged April 1947; elocted to the Diet, 1937 and 19h6.
TAKAKURA Taru
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee. Nippon Kyosantō; adviser,
Nagano branch, Nippon Hamin Kumiai; arrested November 1948 for making speech
contrary to ocoupation policy.
Background. Born 1891 Kochi; graduate of Kyoto Imperial University;
active in prolotarian literary groups; arrested 1933, 1939, and 1942; imprisoned,
November 1944-October 1945; elected to the Diet, 1946; unsuccessful Diet
candidato, 1947.
TAKANO Twasaburo
Current Activities. President, Japan Broadcasting Corporation; president,
Fabian Society of Japan; member, Japan Academy (formerly the Imperial Academy).
Background. Born 1871, Nagasaka; graduated from Tokyo Imperial University,
1895; atudied in Germany, England, France, and United States; 1919 joined
Yuaikai; 1920, became president of Ohara Institute of Social Research; l926,
member of Central Executive Comittee, Rodo Nominto; l928, offered presidency
of Nippon Taishuto but declined; 1930, adviser, Zenkoku Taishüto; 1932, adviser,
Shakai Taishuto; adviser, Nippon Shakaitō, 1945-46.
TAKANO Minoru
Current Aotivities. Secretary general, Rödo Kumiai Sodomei; vice-president,
National League of Metal Workers' Unions; member, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born c. 1900; member, Executive Committee, Rōnō Musan Kyōgikai;
arrested for united front activities, l937; chief of Research and Reconstruction
Section, Rödo Kumiai Sōdamei, 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 640 === (confidence 0.98)
-305-
RESTRICTED
TAKATSU Soido (Masmich1)
Current Activities. Auditor, Nippon Shakaito; member, House of Representatives,
from Hiroshima.
Background. Born 1893, Hiroshima; 1920, expelled from Waseda University for
radical activities; one of organizers of Nippon Kyosanto, l923; fled to UBSR in
1924 to escape arrest; apparently resigned from Mippon Kyösanto because of his
opposition to Fukumoto's doctrines; member, Rāno ha; 1930, became a member of
Zenkoku Taishuto; l932, member, Executive Committee of Association of Friends of
Peace in the Far East; member, Nippon Musanto; arrested in 1937 for united front
activities; member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1947; May 1948, sponsor of
Ronō Renrakukai; elocted to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
TAKENAKA Tsunesaburo
Current Activities. Member, Central Committee, Nippon Kyosantō.
Background. Born 1909, Kyoto; attended Osaka Commeroial College; 1929,
joined Young Commnist League; l931, Joined Nippon Kyosanto, became an officer
of Kyoto branoh; imprisoned 1932-35 and 1938-45; candidate member of Central
Committee and member of Control Committee, Nippon Kyosanto, 1946.
TANAKA Kenk1ch1
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Akita; chief,
Organization Department, Zenkoku Nāmin Kumiai; member, Kakushin Shakaito.
Background. Born 1909, Akita; higher school education; member, Akita
Profectural Assembly; member, Nippon Taishutō, 1928; 1mprisoned 1930; member,
executive committee, Akita branch, Shakai Taishuto; momber, Central Committee,
Nippon Shakaito, 1946-47; chairman, Akita branch of Nippon Shakaito and Nippon
Nomin Kumiai, 1947; seceded from Nippon Shakaito, January 1948; elocted to the
Diot, 1946 and 1947.
TANAKA Shogetsu
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Fukuoka; member,
Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; chief secretary, Fukuoka branch,
Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1900, Fukuoka; graduated from middle school; member,
Fukuoka Prefectural Assembly; priest (Hongen Temple); founder and leader of
Kyushu branch, Zenkoku Suiheisha; private secretary to MATSUMOTO Ji1chiro;
member, Central Committee, Zenkoku Suiheisha; member, Shakai Taishutō; member,
Fukuoka branch, IRAA and Dai Nippon Seijikai; member, Central Committee,
Nippon Shakaitō, 1946-47.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 641 === (confidence 0.98)
-306-
REBTRICTED
TOKUDA Kyuich1
Current Activities. Secretary general, chief of Organization Guidance
Section, and member of Political Bureau, Secretariat, and Central Committee,
Nippon Kyosanto; member, House of Representatives, from Tokyo.
Background. Born Okinawa, 189k; Nippon University law school graduate; in
1922 attended the sessions in Moscow and Petrograd of Firet Congress of the
Toilers of the Far East; 1923, arrested and imprisoned for eight months; 1925,
met with Commmist leaders in Shanghai to discuss reorganization of Nippon
Kyosanto and favored its dissolution; 1926, attended moetings in Moscow; 1927,
became chairman of Central Committee and seoretary general of Nippon Kyosanto,
attended meetinga in Moscow; 1928-45, imprisoned; elected to the Diet, 1946 and
1947.
TOMTYOSHI E1J1
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō;
member, House of Representatives, from Kagoshima.
Background. Born 1899, Kagoshima; arrested on various occasions in conmection
with tenant disputes; 1931, member of the Zenkoku Rōnō Taishūtō; member of Abe
faction, Shakai Taishūtō; member, Executive Committee, Nippon Nōmin Kumiai;
chairman, Propaganda Committee, Nippon Shakaito, 1946; member, Proparatory Committee,
Nippon Nāmin Kumiai, 1946; Shakaito election secretary, Kyushu area, 1947;
Parliamontary Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry, June 1947-February 1948;
Minister of Communications, March-0ctober 1948; elocted to the Diet, 1936, 1937,
1946 and 1947.
TOBAKA Ryoioh1
Current Activities. Candidate member of Central Comittee and chief
secretary of Ibaraki Camittee, Nippon Kyōsantō.
Background. Born l9l2; middle school graduate; became active in farmers'
movement, 1930; 1mpr1soned 1932-35 and 1941-42; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1947.
WADA Ichizo
Current Activities. Mamber, Control Committee, Nippon Kyoaanto; chairman,
Ishikawa branch, Nippon Nomin Kumiai.
Background. Born 1910, Ishikawa; 1928, joined leftist group wh1le a normal
school student; 1930, joined Nippon Kyosanto and became activs in the farmers'
movemont; imprisoned 1930, 1932-34, and 1941; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 642 === (confidence 0.97)
- 307 -
RESTRICTED
YAMAHANA Hideo
Current Activities. Vice-president, Rödo Kumiai Sódămei; chairman,
Education Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; member, House of Representatives, from
Tokyo.
Background. Born 1904, Hyogo; primary education; 1929, became member of
Nippon Ronoto; 1931, member, Zenkoko Rönō Taishuto; 1934, chief seoretary of
Zenkoku Ryogikai; active in Nippon Musantö; arrested December 1937; 1947, member,
Central Committee, Nippon Shakait8; defeated in l946 Diet election but replaced
purged Diet member; elected to Diet, 1947.
YAMAKAWA Hitosh1 (K1n)
Current Activities. Writer.
Background. Born 1880, Okayama; attended Doshisha Collego; originally an
anarchist; one of organizers end theoretical leaders of Nippon Kyōsantō; arrested
in 1923; a leader of the group that favored dissolution of the party in mid-l920's;
expelled from Nippon Kyosanto sometime before 1929; reported to have lived in
retirement after 1931; arrested December 1937; leader of Minshu Jimmin Remme1,
1946-47; unsuccessful Diet candidate, 1947.
YAMAZAKI Tsunokiohi
Current Activities. Purged.
Background. Born 1891, Aichi; 1918, became active in the labor movement;
1926, Joined Rodo Nōminto; l930, became member of Central Committee, Shin Ránōtō;
1931, member, Central Committee, Zenkoku Rönō Taishütō; 1936, member of Permanent
Committee of Aikoku Rōdo Kumiai Zenkoku Konwa Kai (National Association of
Patriotic Labor Unions); adviser of Nagoya branch of IRAA and member of IRAPS;
auditor, Nippon Shakaitō, 1946; purgod, October 1946; elected to Diet in 1937 as
a representative of Patriotic Labor Party but expelled after convicted of illegal
electioneering; reelected to Diet 1942 and 1946.
YASUHIRA Shikaichi
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Ehime; member,
Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitō.
Background. Born 1902, Ehime; elementary school education; member, Zenkoku
Rono Taishuto; member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Musantō; member,
Executive Committee, Zenkoku Rodo Kumiai Kyōgikai; arrested for popular front
activities, l937; member, Rōdō Kumiai Sōdomei; member, Tokyo Labor Relations Board;
member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaits, 1946-47; Shakaito election secretary,
Shikoku area, 1947; chairman, Labor Committee, House of Representatives, May-
October 1948; olocted to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 643 === (confidence 0.97)
- 308 -
RESTRICTED
YONEKUBO Mitsusuko (Manryo)
Current Activities. Member, Central Executive Committee, Nippon Shakaitő;
superviser, Shakai Shimbun; member, House of Representatives, from Hyogo.
Background. Born 1888, Nagano; graduated from Tokyo Mercantile Marine
College, 1914; l922, Joined Nippon Kaiin Kumiai (Seamen's Union); served as
adviser to SUZukI Bunji at International Labor Conference, Geneva, 1924; 1928,
delegate to International Labor Conference; 193l-36, chief of International
Section of Nippon Kalin Kumiai; 1936-40, vice-president, Nippon Kaiin Kumiai;
1931-40, member of Shaka1 Taishuto, Abe faction; 1940, one of leaders in the
attempt to organize the Kimro Kokuminto; l945, member, Arrangements Committee,
Nippon Shakaitō; auditor, Nippon Shakaito, l945; chairman, Liaison Committee,
Shakaito, 1946; Minister without Portfolio, May-September 1947; Labor Minister,
Soptember 1947-February 1948; elected to the Diet, 1937, 1946, and 1947.
YOSHIKAWA Kanemitsu
Current Activities. Member, House of Representatives, from Chiba; member,
of Central Executive Committee and chairman of Information Committee and Chiba
branch, Hippon Shakaitō; chairman, Chiba branoh, Japan Fishermen's Union.
Background. Born 1902, Fukuoka; graduate of Waseda University; postgraduate
study in kurope and the United States; teacher and Journalist; member of IRAPS;
1946-47, member, Central Committee, Nippon Shakaitō; l947, leader of Chiba branch,
Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai; ©lected to the Diet, 1946 and 1947.
RESTRICTRD

=== Page 644 === (confidence 0.96)
- 309 -
RESTRICTED
APPENDIX B
PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE LEFT-WING PARTIES, 1945-48
NIPPON SHAKATTO
A.
September 1945
Arrangements Committee:
ABE Isoo
MATSUMOTO Jiichiro
ASANUMA Inajiro
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
HARA Eyo
NAKAMURA Takaich1
HIRANO Rikizo
NISHIO Suehiro
KAGAWA Toyoh1ko
NOMIZO Masaru
KATAYAMA Totau
SUGIYAMA Motojiro
KATO Kanju
SUNAGA Ko
KAWAKAMI Jotaro
SUZUKI Mosaburo
KONO Mitsu
TAHARA Haruj1
MATSUOKA Konakichi
TAKANO Iwasaburo
YONEKUBO Mi tsusuke
B. November 1945
Secretary General: KATAYAMA Tetau
Central Executive Committee:
ASANUMA Inajiro
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
HARA Hyo
NAKAMURA Taka1ohi
HIRANO Rikizo
NISHIO Suehiro
KATO Kanju
NOMIZO Masaru
KONO Mitsu
SUZUKI Mosaburo
KURODA Hisao
TAHARA Haruj1
Auditors:
SUNAGA KO
YONEKUBO Mitsusuke
Advisers:
ABE Isoo
MATSUMOTO J11chiro
BABA Tsunogo
SUZUKI Bunj1
KAGAWA Toyohiko
TAKANO Ivasaburo
KAWAKAMI Jotaro
TOKUGAWA Yoshichika
MATSUOKA Komakich1
YAGI Hideji
RESTRICTED

=== Page 645 === (confidence 0.96)
-310-
RESTRICTED
C. September 1946
Chairman of the Central Exeoutive Committee: KATAYAMA Tetsu
Secretary General: NISHIO Suehiro
Chief Treasurer: HOSONO Michio
Central Exeoutive Committoe:
ARAHATA Katsuzo
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
HIRANO Rikizo
MORITO Tateuo
INOUE RyoJ1
NOMIZO Masaru
ITO Ushiro
SATAKE Haruki
KATO Kanju
SUZUKI Mosaburo
KATO Ryozo
SUZUKI Yoshio
KURODA Hisao
TAHARA Haruj1
MASAKI Kiyosh1
TOMIYOSHI E1J1
MATSUMOTO JunzO
YONKKUBO M1tsusuke
MATSUNAGA Yoshio
YONEYAMA Hisako
Auditors:
ASANUMA InaJiro
NAKAMURA Takaich1
YAMAZAKI Taunekichi
Advisers:
ABE Isoo
MATSUOKA Konakichi
KAGAWA Toyohiko
YAGI Hideji
MATSUMOTO Ji1chiro
Coumittee Chairmen:
Political Affairs Research Committoe: MORITO Tatsuo
Advisers:
SUZUEI Mosaburo
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
Labor Union Committee:
KATO Kanju
Diet Committee:
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
Election Committee:
HIRANO Rikizo
Diet Members' Society:
SATAKE Haruki
Organization Committee:
TAHARA Haruj1
RESTRICTED

=== Page 646 === (confidence 0.97)
-311-
RESTRICTED
Propaganda Committee:
TOMIY0SHI E1J1
Eiucation Committee:
SUZUKI Yoshio
Cultural Comittee:
MATSUMOTO Junzo
Civil Information Committee:
DNOUE Yoshij1
Liaison Committee:
TONKKUBO Mitsusuke
Youth Department:
KURODA Hisao
Women's Cormittee:
AKAMATSU Tsuneko
D.
Changes of June 1947
Acting Socretary General: ASANUMA Inajiro
Auditors:
KOIZUMI Hidekich1
II Seiichi
Committee Chairmen:
Political Affairs Research Committee: SUzukI Hosaburo
Diet Committee:
MASAKI Kiyosh1
Election Committee:
ITO Ushiro
Diet Members' Society:
NOMIZO Masaru
Organization Conmittee:
KATO Ryozo
Propaganda Committee:
DOI Naosaku
Education Comittee:
ARAHATA Katsuzo
Civil Information Committee:
YOSHIKAWA Kanemitsu
Liaison Committee:
HOBOKAWA Takamoto
B.
Jamuary 1948
Chairman of the Central Executive Committee:
KATAYAMA Tetsu
Secretary Goneral:
ASANUMA Inajiro
Chief Treasurer:
NAKASAKI Tosh1
RESTRICTED

=== Page 647 === (confidence 0.97)
-312-
RESTRICTED
Contral Rxecutive Comittes:
AKAMATSU Tsunoko
MIZUTANI Chosaburo
ARAHATA Katsuzo
MORITO Tatsuo
DOI Naosaku
NISHDMURA E11ch1
HARA Hyo
NISHIO Suehiro
HAYASHI Daisaku
NOMIZO Masaru
HORI Makoto
OSHDMA Yoshiharu
HOSONO Mich1o
SUZUKI Mosaburo
INAMURA Junzo
SUZUKI Seiichi
ITO Ushiro
SUZUKI Yoshio
KATO Kanju
TANAKA Shogotsu
KATO Ryozo
TOMIYOSHI E1J1
KIKUGAWA Tadao
YASUHIRA Shikaiichi
KURODA Hisao
YONEKUBO Mitsusuke
MASAKI K1yosh1
YOSHIKAWA Kanemitsu
MATSUMOTO JunzO
Auditors:
II Seiich1
NAGAE Kazuo
TAKATSU Masamich1
Advisers:
ABE Isoo
MATSUMOTO Ji1chiro
KAGAWA Toyoh1ko
MATSUOKA Komakichi
Committee Chairmen:
Political Affairs Research Committee: SUzUkI Mosaburo
Labor Union Committee:
ARAHATA Katsuzo
Diet Committee:
MASAKI K1yosh1
Election Committee:
ITO Ushiro
Organization Committee:
KATO Ryozo
Propaganda Committee:
AKAMATSU Iu
Education Committee:
YAMAHANA H1d0o
Cultural Comittee:
MATSUMOTO Shichiro
Civil Information Committee:
YOSHIKAWA Kanem1tsu
Liaison Comittee:
HOSOKAWA Takamoto
RESTRICTED

=== Page 648 === (confidence 0.98)
-313-
RESTRICTED
Youth Department:
OKADA Haruo
Women's Committee:
YAMAZAKI Michiko
Control Committee:
MUTO Unjiro
Living Conditions Committee:
MORI M1k1J1
Publications Comittee:
HOBODA Tsunekichi
II. NIPPON KYÖSANTÖ
A.
December 1945
Secretary General: TOKUDA Kyuichi
Central Committee:
HAKAMADA Satomi
KUROKI Shigenor1
KAMIYAMA Shigoo
MIYAMOTO Kenj1
KIN Tenkai
SHIGA Yoshio
Contral Committee Candidates:
INAMOTO Ivao
KASUGA Shoich1
KASUGA Sho1chi
MATSUZAKI Kumaj1
KURAHARA Korendo
MUNEKIYO Totsu
Department Chairmen:
Organization Guidance Department:
TOKUDA Kyuichi
Publications Department:
SHIGA Yoshio
Trade Union and Farmers' Department:
KAMIYAMA Shigoo
Propaganda Department:
MIYAMOTO KenJ1
B. February 1946
Secretary Goneral: TOKUDA Kyuich1
Secretariat:
ITO R1tsu
SHIGA Yoshio
KUROKI Shigenori
TOKUDA Kyuich1
NOSAKA Sanzo
RESTRICTED

=== Page 649 === (confidence 0.95)
-314-
REBTRICTED
Political Bureau:
HAKAMADA Satomi
NOBAKA Sanzo
N Tackai
SHDA Yoshio
MIYAMOTO Kenj1
TOKUDA Kyuichi
Central Committee:
HAKAMADA Satomi
KUROKI Shigsnori
HASEGAWA Hirosh1
MATSUZAKI Kumaj1
ITO Eenich1
MIYAMOTO Kenj1
ITO Ritsu
MIZUTANI Takashi
KAMIYAMA Shigoo
NISHIZAWA RyuJ11
KASUGA Sho1oh1
NOSAKA SanzO
KASUGA ShoJiro
OKADA Bunkichi
KDN Tenkai
SHIGA Yoshio
KONO Yojiro
TOKUDA Kyuichi
KURIHARA Koreto
UCHINO Takochiyo
Central Committee Candidates:
BOKU Ontetsu
MATSUNOTO Ichizo
HATTORI Magio
MIYAMOTO Yuriko
HOSAKA Hiroaki
SEKIGUCHI Kinzo
IBHIKAWA Tomozaemon
SHIDA Shigeo
INAMOTO Iwao
SHIDNO Etsuro
IWAMOTO Shigoo
so Seitetau
IWATA E11ch1
TADA Tomej1
KAMEYAMA KOZO
TAKEHAKA Tsunesaburo
KIN Toyo
TAKEOCHI Kiyoshi
KONISHI Masao
Department Chairmen:
Crganization Guidance Department:
TOKUDA Kyuich1
Publication Department:
KAMIYAMA SH1g00
Propaganda Department:
NOBAKA Sanzo
Research Department:
BOSAKA Sanzo
Business Department:
TAKENAKA Tsunesaburo
Culture Department:
MIYAMOTO Kønj1
Finance Department:
KUROKI Shigenori
AKAHATA Department:
SHIGA Yoshio
ZENEI Department:
MIYAMOTO KenJi
Trade Union Department:
ITO Kenichi
RESTRICTED

=== Page 650 === (confidence 0.95)
-315-
RESTRICTED
C.
December 1947
Secretary General: TOKIDA Kyuichi
Seoretariat:
HASEGAWA Hiroshi
NOSAKA BanzO
ITO Ritsu
TOKUDA Kyuichi
KAMEYAMA KOzO
Political Bureau:
HASEGAWA Hirosh1
NOSAKA Sanzo
ITO Ritsu
SHIDA Shigoo
KIN Tenkai
SHIGA Yoshio
KONNO Yoj1ro
TOKUDA Kyuichi
MIYAMOTO KenJ1
Central Committee:
HAKAMADA Satom1
MATSUMOTO SaneKi (Mimasu)
HASEGAWA Hirosh1
MIYAMOTO Kenj1
ITO Kenichi
NOBAKA Ryu
ITO Ritsu
NOSAKA Sanzo
KAMEYAMA KOZO
SATO Batoji
KAMIYAMA Shigoo
SHIDA Shigso
KASUGA Sho1ch1
SHIGA Yoshio
KASUGA ShoJiro
SHIRAKAWA Haru1ch1
KIN Tenkai
TAKAKURA Toru
KISHDMOTO Shig0o
TAKENAKA Tsunesaburo
KONNO Yojiro
TOKUDA Kyuichi
KURIHARA Koroto
TOSAKA Kan
MATBUMOTO Kuzumi
Central Comittee Candidates:
BOKU Ontetsu
NISHIDATE Jin
HARADA ChoJ1
SUNAMA Kazuyoshi
HOSAKA Hiroaki
TADA Tomoj1
IWATA E11ch1
TOSAKA Ryoichi
KONISHI Masao
TAMAMOTO H1tosh1
Control Committee:
IWAMOTO Iwao
OKADA Bunkichi
MASUDA KaKUnOsuke
SHIDNO Etsuro
MATSUMOTO Soichiro
WADA Iohizo
MIYAMOTO KenJi
YAMABE Kentaro
NISHIZAWA RyuJ1
RESTRICTED

=== Page 651 === (confidence 0.97)
-316-
RESTRICTED
APPENDIX C
GLOSSARY OF PRDNCIPAL IEFT-WING ORGANIZATIONS
The English translations given here are those most frequently employed in
standard English sources. For each Japanese term, however, a large number of other
translations also exist.
I. PRE-1940 ORGANIZATIONB
Dai Nippon Rödó Sodomei (Japan Labor Federation)
Sucoessor to the Yuaikai; organized l92l; became the Zenkoku Rōdō Sōdāme1
in 1936.
Kimrō Kokumintō (National Labor Party)
Organized in 1940 as the result of a split in the Shakai Taishuto; dissolved
by the government in the same year.
Musan Taishüts (Proletarian Mass Party)
Organized in l928 by former members of the Rodo Nomintō; became part of the
Nippon Taishūtō in the same year.
Nippon Kyōsantō (Japan Commmist Party)
Organized 1922.
Hippon Musantō (Japan Proletarian Party)
Organized in 1936; dissolved by the government in 1937.
Nippon Nomin Ktmiai (Japan Farmers' Union)
Organized in 1922.
Nippon Nominto (Japan Farmers' Party)
Organized in l926 as the result of a split in the Rodo Momintō; became part of
Nippon Taishutō in 1928.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 652 === (confidence 0.95)
-317 -
RESTRIOTED
Nippon Rödo Kumiai Dömei (Japen Labor Union League)
Organized in 1926 as the result of a split in the Dai Mippon Rödo Bödomei;
became part of the Zemkoku Rödō Kumiai Dămi in 1930.
Mippon Rōdō Kimiai Hyōgikai (Japan Labor Union Council)
Organized in l1923 as a result of a split in the Dai Mippon Rodō Sodomei;
dissolved by the goverment in 1928.
Nippon Rōdo Kumiai Kaigi (Japan Trade-Union Congress)
Organized in 1932 as a oongress of umions and federations; dissolved in 1940.
Nippon Rödō Kumia! Sörengo (Japan Labor Union Alliance)
Organized in 1925 as the result of a split in the Dei Wippon Rodō Sōdomei.
Nippon Rōdō Kurabu (Japan Labor Association)
A loose federation of the Dai Nippon Rōdo Sodomei, the Zenkoku Rōdo Kmiai
Domei, and the Mippon Rödō Kimiai Sorengo formed in 1931.
Nippon Rōdo Sō-Hyōgikai (Japan Labor Council)
Organized in 1930 by former mombers of the Nippon Rodō Kumiai Hyōgikai.
Nippon Ránotō (Japan Labor Farmer Party)
Organized in 1926 as the result of a split in the Rödo Nominto; became
part of tho Hippon Taishutō in 1928.
Nippon Taishutō (Japan Masses Party)
Organized in l928 as a merger of the Nippon Ronōtō, the Mippon Nomintō, and
the Musan Taishuto; became part of the Zenkoku Taishutō in 1930.
Nömin Rōdōtō (Farmer Labor Party)
Organized December 1925; imssdietely dissolved by the government.
Rodo Kumiai Zenkoku Domei (Trade-Union National Leaguo)
Organized in 1929 as the result of a split in the Dai Nippon Rōdō Sodāmei;
became part of the Zenkoku Rōdō Kumiai Dōme1 in 1930.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 653 === (confidence 0.96)
-318-
RESTRIOTED
Rōdo Nomintō (Labor Farmer Party)
Organized 1926; dissolved by the government in 1928.
Rönō Musan Ayōgikai (Labor Farmer Proletarian Counc1l)
Organized by the Zenkoku Hyogika1 in 1936; dissolved by the government in 1937.
Shaka1 Minshutō (Social Democratic Party)
Organized in 1926 as the result of a split in the Rodo Nominto; beceme part
of the Shakai Taishuto in 1932.
Shakai Taishūtō (Social Masses Party)
Orgenized in 1932 as the result of the morger of the Zenkoku Ronō Taishūtō
and the Shakai Minshutő; dissolved in l940.
Shin Rönötō (Bew Labor Farmer Party)
Organized in l929 by former members of the Rodo Nominto; beceme part of the
Zenkoku Rōnō Taishutō in 1931.
Tōkyó Musantó (Tokyo Proletarian Party)
Organized in 1928 as the regult of a split in the Hippon Taishuto; became
part of the Zenkoku Taishutō in 1930.
Yuaikai (Friendly Society)
A trade-union federation organized in l9l2; became the Dai Nippon Rōdō Sōdomei
1n 1921.
Zen Hippon Nōmin Kumiai Döme1 (All Japan Farmers' Union League)
Organized in 1926 as the result of a split in the Hippon Nomin Kumiai.
Zenkoku Hyögikai (National Couno1l)
Organized in 1934; became the Rānō Musan Kyogikai in 1936.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 654 === (confidence 0.97)
-319 -
RESTRICTED
Zenkoku Minshutō (National Democratic Party)
Organized in 1930 as the result of a split in the Shakai Minshuto; became
part of the Zenkoku Taishutō later in the same year.
Zenkoku Rödō Kusiai Döme1 (National League of Labor Unions)
Organized in 1930 as the rosult of the merger of the Wippon Rodō Kimiai Dome1
end the Rōdō Kumiai Zenkoku Domei.
Zenkoku Rodo Sōdomei (All Japan Labor Federation)
Organized in 1936 as the result of the amalgemation of the Dai Nippon Rōdō
Sodome1 and ten other unions; dissolved in 1940.
Zenkoku Rānő Taishūtō (National Labor Farmer Mass Party)
Organized in 1931 a the result of the merger of the Shin Ronoto and the
Zenkoku Taishuto; beceme part of the Shakai Taishutō in 1932.
Zenkoku Suiheisha (National Equalization Society)
An organization to combat prejudice against the eta, established in l922.
Zenkoku Taishūto (National Masses Party)
Organized in 1930 as a result of the merger of the Tokyǒ Musanto, the Hippon
Taishuto, and the Zenkoku Minshūtō; became part of the Zenkoku Rōnō Taishuto
in 1931.
II. POST-SUPRENDER ORGANTZATIONS
Bunren (Nippon Minshushugi Bunka Remmo1 -- Japan Democratic Culture League)
Organized October 1947.
Jimmin Kaihō Remmei (People's Emancipation Lesgue)
Organized October 1945; disappeared shortly thereafter.
Jiyu Hosō Dan (Free Bar Association)
Organized October 1945.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 655 === (confidence 0.95)
-320 -
RESTRICTED
Kaknshin Döshikai (Reformist Comrades' Society)
Established March 1948.
Kantó Chihō Shokuryō Minshu Kyōgikai (Kanto Democratic Food Council)
Organized January 1946.
Kantó Chiho Rōdō Ktmiai Kyogikai (Kanto Distriot Labor Ucion Council)
Organized January 19h6; absorbed into Zenkoku Sangyöbetau Rödo Kumiai Kaigi
in September 1946.
Kokutetsu (Kokutetsu Rödó Kimiai -- Govermment Railroed Workers' Union)
Organized February 1946.
Kyukoku Minshu Sensen Ressmei (Democratic Front to Save the Nation)
Organized July 1946.
Mindō -- see Banbetsu Minshuka Dōmei.
Minsha Jimmin Remmei (Democratic People's League)
Organized February 1946; inaugurated July 1946.
Michino Sasshin Dome1 (Japan Farmors' Union Reformation Leagus)
Established February 1947; became the Zenkoku Nomin Kumia1, May 1947.
Minshu Shugi Kagakusha Kyōkai (Democratic Soientists' Association)
Organized January 1946.
Hippon Kyōsantō (Commnnist Party of Japan)
Revived in Ootober 1945; inaugurated December 1945.
Nippon Nomin Kimiai (Japan Farmers' Union)
Revived in Oetober 1945; inangurated February 1946.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 656 === (confidence 0.96)
-321-
ASSTRICTED
Wippon Shakaitō (Socialist Party of Japan)
Organized September 1945; inaugurated November 1945.
Renraku -- See Rōnö Renrakukai.
Rodó Kumiai Minshuka Remme1 (Trade-Union Democratization League)
Established January 1948.
Rodo Kumiai Sodome1 (National Federation of Labor)
Organized October 1945; inaugurated August 1946.
Rodösha Nomintō (Labor Farmer Party)
Proparatory committee established September 1948.
Rono Renrakukai (Labor-Farmer Liaison Council)
Organized May 1948; inaugurated June 1948.
Rönō Zeneitō (Labor Farmer Vanguard Party)
Organized August 1946; inaugurated Maroh 1947.
Sanbetsu -- see Zenkoku Sangyóbeteu Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi.
Sanbetsu Minshuka Dōmei (Sanbetsu Democratic League)
Established February 1948.
Seinen Kyōsan Dōme1 (Young Commist League)
Revived November 1945.
Seitōha Dōshikai (Orthodox Comrades' Group)
Organ1zed June 1948.
Shutaisei Kakuritau Domei (League for the Establishment of Independence)
Organized April 1948.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 657 === (confidence 0.96)
-322-
RESTRICTED
Södāme1 -- see Rödō Kumiai Södomei.
Sovieto Kenkyusha Kyökai (Soviet Study Asscciation)
Organized May 1946.
Zenkanko (Zen Kankōchō Shokuin Rōdo Kumiai Renraku Kyōgikai -- Federated Counoil
of Government and Public Office Workers' Unions)
Organized April 1946.
Zenkoku Buraku Kaiho Remme1 (Wational League for the Emancipation of the Special Caste)
Originally Zenkoku Suiheisha; revived November 1945.
Zenkoku Nōmin Kumiai (National Farmers' Union)
Organized May 1947.
Zenkoku Sangyobetsu Rōdo Kumiai Kaigi (National Congress of Industrial Unions)
Organized Fobruary 1946; 1naugurated August 1946.
Zen Nippon Rōdō Kumiai Kaigi (Japan Trede-Union Conference)
Orgamized September 1946; inaugurated October 1946.
Zenrören (Zenkoku Rōdō Kumiai Renraku Kyōgikai -- All Japan Trade-Union Liaison
Counc11)
Established February 1947.
Zentei (Zen Teishin Jugyōin Kumiai (All-Commumications Workers' Union)
Organized February 1946.
RESTRICTED
CS.

=== Page 658 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION
OMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
15
Control 319
Action: EUR
Rec'd January 3, 1949
Info :
12:04 p.m.
P
0
SAM
FROM: MOSCOW
FE
OLI
TO:
Seoretary of State
CIA
AAN
NO:
9, January 3
POS
PA
PRESS
EURX
DCR
IZVESTIYA December 31 carries 1 1/3 column article by
"observer" commenting on dissolution Jap parliament.
Describing parliament elected 1947 as Reactionary and
8
anti-Populer, proved by scandals involving leaders three
most important parties, article states Jap Reactionary
forces refuge dissolve parliament following disclosure
scandals. MacArthur resolved diamiss parliament and
0
force election new, even more slavish parliament, only
0/1
arter carefully preparing ground. This accomplished by
such measures as law concerning Civil Service, MacArthur's
letter Voshida requesting temporary withdrawai "certain
1
privileges and libertles free society", terrorist re-
3
pression "democratic elements". These actions show US
4
Leaders, under influence events on Asiatic continent,
9
intend force transformation Japan into military-atrategic
base American imperialism. Soviet preys December 32
also carries brief New York Tass despateh reporting
request December 30 by Sovlet reprecentative FEc for
information on Macarthur's recommendetions re re-establish-
ment Jep army and rearmament Japan.
Repeated Tolkyo ao No. I.
NOMWER
Filg
RBERS
3
JAN 5 1949
FILED
PIA
工
H
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
UOVIANMLNT PHINTING OFFICE

=== Page 659 === (confidence 0.93)
ecfR
280
94
JAPANESE POLICY
AMERICAN COURGIL ON JAPAN
It is always difficult for a victor to think and aot clearly toward a vanquished
foe. There 1s the logacy of bitterness left by any war, and in the case of Japan,
to this has been added the memory of the atrocities committed by the Japanese army,
as well as everything expressed by the words "Pearl Harbor". It is alwmys more dif-
ficult to win the peace than to win the war, although winning the peace should be the
true objective of the war. Therefore, in his own interoat, the victor mmst impose on
himself enough political wisdom and restraint to override the passions aroused by the
894.
war.
It is thus in the hope of making some contribution tomard a policy that will win
the peace and at the same time lift the burden of supporting Japan from the American
taxpayer that this paper has been propared. It is deliborately critical since its
purpose is to stimulate discussion, not of the phases whore tho occupation has suc-
6
ceeded, but of these phases that ere unsuccessful or at least controversial. Neither
the problem of a peace treaty nor of the difficulties posed by the Far Bastern Con-
mission are dealt with sinco tho United States has the power to sottle by interin
directives most of he problems horein digcussed.
DC/R
8
94
CS/JL
d
Rev
1949
63
JAN.K.1947

=== Page 660 === (confidence 0.98)
OVERALL CONCLUSION
The conquest of Japan may have been unique in modern history. The mind of the
nation was wrenched open by the surrender. It is very important to realise that it
was not the physical blows of the war--the bombing and Japanese land, air and sea
defeats--that did this. It was the Emperor's order to surrender that orumpled the
Japanese will to fight and that destroyed all the ideas and ideals associated with
Bushido, the tradition of never murrendering, Japanese superiority over all other
nations, otc.
The Japanese are an crtremely practical race, and unlike the Germans, self-
pity has little place in thoir montal makeup. They concluded they had been beatedh
because the American systen was better than the Japanese system. They, therefore,
resolved to change the Japanese syatem. Tho militarists and all they stood for were
utterly discredited. The Japanese turned to the American occupation for guidance
with minds more open than possibly at any time since the beginning of the Tokugawa
Shogunato.
That was the atmoaphere and the opport nity Ganeral MacArthur found when he
ontered Japan in 1945. What do we find in 1949? Tho information received by the con-
tributors of this paper loads to the unevoidable :onclusion that the great opportu-ity
has been nissed. Why? Because instead of giving he Japenose guidance in working
their own passage toward a new and better system, ho occupation has tried to impose
on them in minute detail a system they only dimly comprehend. Because in doing this-
and this is the way tho Japanose often put it--the cccupation has soemed to then to
show the very faults for which they condemned their pan militarists: buraucratic,
inefficient, dictatorial, vindictivo and at times corrupt. Because in their porsonal
relations with the Japaneae, occupation personnel do not--and under the circumstances
probably cannot--practice he denccratio virtues they preach.

=== Page 661 === (confidence 0.99)
Overall Conclusion (continued)
Because, above all, instead of being compelled, as they expected, to work
unceasingly to make up for the destruction they caused during the war, the Japanese
instead have had forced upon them reforms they don't understand but which they feel
have contributed largely to the economic and moral stagnation of their country.
The result has been deep disillusionment with the occupation, particularly
among those classes best fittad by education and background for understanding the
West. It is impossible to say whether the opportunity that existed at the end of
the war has entirely passed. The concensus is that it has not. But unless it is
seized quickly, the Japanese mind will either revert to some traditional pattern or
turn to the only alternativo to Western democracy in the world today--Communism.

=== Page 662 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTROLS
The most insistent criticism of the occupation from both Americans and Japanese
ie that Jepan's economy, politics, newspapers, education and nearly every other ac-
tivity is supervised down to the minutest details by S.G.A.P. A well-informed Japan-
ese writes: "The organization of the G.H.Q. has been very much enlarged with tens of
sections, with tens of divisions and branches in each and hundreds of civilians and
experts. These personnel are all 'hommes de bonnes volontés', eager and fealous to
create a new Japan, and model of American efficiency. They thoroughly investigate
and study all the Japanese questions with surprising rapidity and accuracy using
scientific analysis and statistical charts. Each of those experts of course find
something, if not everything, wrong with the Japenese practice in each field of their
concern, and different advises and suggestions are given to the proper Japanese
Authorities or through the press to the public.
"The Finance Division orders the belance of budget at all cost to cope with the
rampant inflation; the Industrial Division urge increased productioh of coal and
other raw materials at all cost; agriculture exparts lay down a vast plan for re-
distribution of farm land, for reforestration, and for soil conservation; Education
exports, a huge plan for school rehabi itation and reforms, for better pay for
teachera; Judicial experts, complete rsorganization of Japaneso tribunals with
increased salary for judgoc; Labor ex orts, tho most advanced Labor legislation with
creation of a largo administration for Labor protection; Public Health experts,...
otc.,tc.
"Frequent scene in a Cabinet meei ing or in tho Diet is this: A minister in the
Cabinet or a party leader in the Diet stress that his plan or his bill have been
suggested or approved by the 'higher sithority' and that 'it is catogorically impere-
tive for the Japanese government to cc laborate to the fullest extent with the Occupa-
tion authorities'. All other members ro afraid to contradict and keep mum or one of
them rush to whom he thinks competont person in the G.H.Q. (often not the same porson
who first suggested), explain his ides, got a nod and come lack to say: 'My amendment

=== Page 663 === (confidence 0.99)
Controls (contimued)
is exactly what General MacArthur wants and it is youd duty to vote for it."
American businessmen in Japan find the same minute regulations. One business-
man's report pointe out: "Approval and enthusiastic support for any constructive
project is relatively easy to obtain from responsible Japanese. However, the ap-
proval of occupation authorities is another matter."
A great part of the failure of the occupation can be ascribed to this extra-
ordinarily detailed supervision. The Japanese discovered at firsthand that Anerican
bureaucrats are little, if any, better than their own. Some American officials can
be, ad are bribed. Few S.C.A.P. officials have had any previous experience in
Japan or knonledge about Japanese methods. They therefore try to impose american
methods that are unworkable under Japanese conditions. Furthermore, S.C.A.P. for
many reasons has been unable to attract American executives of high caliber.
The Japanese argue: How can we ossibly develop democraticly f every decision
is either taken by S.C A.P. or subject to S.G.A.P. approval? Iustead, the Japanese
not only take all their problems to S.C.A.P. but are able to place on it the blame
for their own lethargy, inertia and failures. All legislation is cleared through
S.C.A.P., and every political move of importance is refarred to it. S.C.A.P. of-
ficials thus become deeply involved, end the use and mis-use of their authority
has come to be an accepted part of Japanese politics.
General MacArthur has lately been reported making an effort to reduce this
Japanese dependence on occupation whim, particularly by curtailing the authority
of the Government Section. Premier Yoshida has fosterad this tendeney, by appealing
successfully to General MacArthur over the heads of Governmont Section officials.
Recommendatione: S.C.A.P. in its present form should be entirely abolished and
a new system of top level controls worked out, by which the Japanese will have as
much authority as is consistent with the achievement of the basic aims of the

=== Page 664 === (confidence 0.98)
Controle (continued - 2)
occupation. Every effort should then be made to attract top caliber Americans to
serve with the new control board, and the Japanese should theresfter be held
strictly responsible for the achievement of reasonable goals established in coopera-
tion with the occupation.

=== Page 665 === (confidence 0.98)
RECOVERY
"Thing/ are bad and getting worse--a crash is inevituble."
Nee:iy every Japanese at present will make this statement to American observers.
Iet, v der questioning, they will paint a picture of slow but steedy improvement
dur'ng the past year. Production has risen, although not so quickly as in Western
Lermany. Changes in the extreme plan for deconcentrating Japanese industry have
olarified the picture for large companies. Living costs have increased ly 59% since
August l947, but most wages, except for government employees, have kept pace. The
release of blocked accounts has helped balance family budget doficits, altlough many
are still selling goods or clothing in order to oxist. There has been no serious
food crisis since Novamber 1947, an: clothing has become easier to obtain. House
construction has improved, although too much material and labor is still diverted into
dance halls, clubs, theatars and resort hotals. Foreign trade has shown a largu in-
creaso.
The other side of this picture is that Japanese recovery has nonetheless beon so
alow end inflation has increasod so tremendously that the paychology of the publio in
goneral snd businessmen in partioular remains defeatist. Taxation, particularly the
copital levy, has forced great numbers of middle and lower class people to sell their
possossions, including their homes. For the first time since the end of the war, rice
has piled up unscld in the stores. A rampant black markot undermines legitimato activity.
Capital has practically disappeared, and nearly all companies depend on government loans
for current financing. The lack of an axchange rats for the yen hampers the expansion
of foreign trade. The unsettled reparations question gives an element of uncertainty
to all future planning. Labor laws and strikes have greatly reduced the productivity
of labor. The occupetion continues to absorb about one third of all Japanese production.
It is impossible to apportion the blame for these conditions between S.C.A.?.
and the Japanese, becnuse of the tight controls exercised over every economic activity
by S.C.A.P. and the opportunity this gives the Japanese for putting the onus for
everything on S.C.A.F. This extsnds to the recovery program thet has been worked out
for Japen in a "Bluo Book" called "Plan for a Solf-Supporting Jepenose Econony." The

=== Page 666 === (confidence 0.98)
Recovery (oontimved)
aim of this plan is to make Japan self-sufficient by 1952, in line with the reoom
tions of the reports made by Overseas Consultants and the so-called Johnston Mission.
The plan calle for an expenditure of $165,000,000 for the fiscal yoar 1949-50. The
Japanese were not consulted in the drawing up of this plan.
The recovery progran is hampered by the extreme suspicion and distrust with which
S.C.A.P. officials view all Japanese and most American businessmen. S.C.A.P. is loath
to accept any project no matter how good which it does not originate. There is also an
understandable but unfortunate emphasis on projects which will bring a return in dollars
during the current fiscal year. This no doubt is inspired partly by a desire to make a
good showing before the congressional appropriations committees. However, the achieve-
mint of self-sufficionoy by 1952 is being jeopardized by this attitude and in the long
run will cost the American taxpayer more money than if smaller returns were accepted
during the immediate future.
Recommendations: Direction of the Japaness sconomy should be returned to the
Japanese as quickly as possible and as completely as is consistent with the basic aims
of the occupation. An exchange rate should be set for the yen, but if a currency reform
similar to that in Gormany is contemplated, it should be evolved and put in foroe by the
Japanese alone so that the resentment of the millions who will be adversely affected
will not be dirocted against the U. S. The Japanass should also be given latitude in
changing labor laws and taking other measures to increase productivity.
Occupation costs should be drastically redurod and no longer made a charge on the
Japanese government, thus ending the fiction tha: the Japanese are peying these costs
whereas they actually eventually are paid by the J. S. taxpayer. The recovery program
should be coordinated with Japaneae plans. The f nds due to be epnropriated will not,
however, in any case be sufficient to asgure Japar eso self-sufficiency by 1952. The
gap must be filled by privato investmont.

=== Page 667 === (confidence 0.98)
INVESTMENTS
Under the 1942 laws called the "Enemy Properties Supervision Laws", enemy
properties in Japan were taken over by the government or sold to Japanese, while
bonds held by foreigners were declared invalid. Compensation for these
properties and these bonds was paid into accounts held for the foreign nolders in
Japanese banks. During the war, foreign companies and Japanese companies in which
foreigners had interests suffered damage of 3,000,000,000 yen, calculated on a pre-
inflation basis. At the same time, most American companies wrote off their Japanese
investments in order to reduce income taxes. On Sep. 22, 1946, directives were
issued by S.C.A.P. to the Japanose government concerning the rastoration of allied
property, and in conformity with these directives, the Japanese set up various rules
under which property could be restored. However, a request by the Japanese Finance
Ministry in 1947 that American and British holdors of bonds issued by Japanese
alectrical companies be compsneated by being given mortgages on existing electrical
installations has never been acted on by S.C.A.P. & number of Amorican companies
have considered renossessing their Japanese propsrties, and a muaber of others are
at present in consultation with Japanese firms. Hovover, some of the most important
companies have decided against repossessing their Japanese properties at this time,
and progress on new prcjoyty : has been slow. So far, thero has been little sign of
the flow of private capital needed to pupplement govornmont funds if Japan is to be-
come self-sufficient.
The rosgons for thie lack of interest in investing in Japan are inherent in the
economic conditions reviewed in previcus sections of this report. Furthermore,
American corporations will not consider ropossessing their Japaness properties until
Amerioan laws and regulations have been enacted fixing their tax liability in such
cases. Nor will most American companies seriously consider Japanese investment
until certain Japanese laws have been repealed or amended. To mention only a few--
the tax laws which make it almost prohibitive for foreign intorests to carry on
business, must be liberalized--the anti-monopoly law, which is too broad, must be

=== Page 668 === (confidence 0.98)
Investaents (continued)
amended to conform to our own Sherman and Clayton Aots--the patent law, which
fails to afford adequate protection, must be revised, and the deconcentration law,
which is an extension of the anti-trust law, must be repealed.
Recommendations: Action should be taken in Washington to clarify the tax laws
so as to make investment in Japan attractive. The Japanese, under proper supervision,
should be allowed to make such compensation as is practical for foreign property
damaged or otherwise lost during the war. Ag:in, under proper supervision, the
Japanese should be allowed to alter tipir lans so as to make foreign investment at-
tractive.
Even these measures will probably ': assure a surficient flow of capital to
Japan. In addition, American legislatio: should be enacted to allow the United States
to guarantoe the principal and interest i: dollars of loans made to Japanese industry
when in each case payment is adequately εrcured, and the loan has been approved by an
appropriate government agenoy. To induce " vestments in equities, provision should be
made to pernit limited conversion of carnin,s into dollars. The U. S. Government, if
called to make good on its guarantee would t subrogated to the rights and remedies
of the bondholdera, and to the extent yen is : onverted into dollars, would become the
owmer of Japanese currenoy.
