894.40634 Social Matters., Amusements. Sports. Recreation. Where A Group Of Amusements Occur In A Subdivision The Name Of The Particular Subject Will Be Placed After The Case Number., Outdoor Sports. Olympic Games. Aircraft And Automobile R (File 919)
ID: 894.40634-919   Pages: 51   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.40634-social-matters-amusements-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
X
6/6/30
5 Prospect place,
400
New York, N. Y.
June 4,
I am planning Deu
to Washington one week-end soon, and
want certainly to see you while there.
It is possible, in fact, I
40634
can arrange to be there this Saturday
if you will not be too occupied to
see me, and should like to have you
let me know.
If you will be in Washingtor.,
when could I see you on Saturday?
ASEBALL/
Please give my regards to
Mrs. Stimson. I am looking forward
to seeing her, too, and inasnuch as it
will be rather a fiying visit, want
to arrange it when you will be more or
less free.
A wire or letter to the
above address will reach me.
I should like here also to
add my congratulations to the many you
must have received for your eplendid
work at the London naval conference.
I followed it closely and with keen
interest, being on the receiving end
of the United Press cables here in New
York.
Yours, most Bincerely,
Henn F. Misdail
Henry F. Misselwitz

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
June 6, 1930
My dear Mr.( Misselwitz:
I have just be:n shomm
894.40634-BASEBALL/1
your letter of June 4th. I ahall, of course,
be glad to see you, but am very sorry that it
will be impossible for me to do so either to-
morrow or over the following we kend, when my
time will be completely taken up in conneotion
with the visit of the President-elect of
Brazil. If you defer your visit to Washington
until after that time, it will be easier for
metto arrange to see you.
Thank you very much for
your word of congratulations.
Very sincerely yours,
HENRY L. STIMSON
Henry F. Misselwitz, Esquire,
B Prospect Place,
New York City
A trao nopy of
the signed gric
vwErch

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
X
5 Prospect place,
New York, N. Y.
七
x
June 9, 1930.
59
Dear Colonel Stimson:
894.40634 -BASEBALL
Thank you very much for
your letter of June 6.
I can readily understand
you will be very busy while Dr.
Prestes is in Washington, and am
arranging to postpone my visit until
the following week-end.
Would it be possible now
to make a definite appointment for
Saturday, June 21?
I should like very much,
if you could poseibly arrange it,
for you to have luncheon with me
that day.
Yours, ver
cerely
2
Henry F
Misselwitz
Col. Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
2

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
June 13, 1930.
Dear Mr. Misselwits:
Due to the pressure I am now under it
894.40634-BASEBALL/
is very diffioult to make definite appointments
and I cannot possibly do it on Baturday, June
twenty-first, for I shall be away from Washington
at that time. If you are down here during the
middle of the week and will call at the office
I will try to see you for a few minutes, but
ever since I returned from London the pressure
of work has been so overwhelming that I have
been obliged to very narrowly limit any
definite engagements.
2
Very truly yours,
HENRY L. STIMSON
Henry F. Misselwits, Esquire,
5 Prospect Placs,
New York, Wew York.
A  copy of
the signed org
inae
8 HLS:HHR

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 4, 1930.
S..
The proposal in the attached letter
to the Secretary is to organize baseball
in Japan with a view to inaugurating an
international "world series" for the base-
ball championship and with the idea that
such competition in baseball would promote
a better understanding between the Ameri-
can and the Japanese peoples.
The above project should not, in the
writer's opinion, be commercialized, as
that would defeat the object aimed at.
Such capital as would be required should
be Japanese capital only, in order tlat
it might be "a purely Japanese show
throughout" and be "kept on a hign and
happy plane."
It would, however, be necessary to
nave an American to sell the idea to the
Japanese and advise them how to carry it
out; and the writer would like to be that
American.
The Secretary is requested to con-
ider the matter as confidential.
It is difficult to see how pro-
fessional

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
fessional baseball could be organized in
Japan without putting it on a oommeroial
basis; and it is doubtful whether there
1s at present any Japanese capital avail-
able for such purpose.
It looks as though we should, for
some time to come, have to rely upon the
exohange of visits between American and
Japanese college baseball teams to pro-
mote the international fellowship in
sport whioh the writer has in mind.
Rum
RSM:MBD

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.69)
witrihd
Con from the
dye .
Come n
U.S. Ch., Sm
shred hwhet

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
October 3, 1930.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE
OCT 3 1930
Dearootor Hornbeok:
The Seoretary has not seen the
attached letter from Mr. Misselwitz. He
is a good friend of the Secretary. Will
you please submit a memorandum or a draft
reply setting forth your opinion in the
premises? I am quite sure it would help
very much in replying to this letter.
ERM

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
9B
United Press Associations
GENERAL OFFICES
WORLD BUILDING NEW YORK CITY
Lupex Burgan
BLVD
OCT 3- 1930
Dep't, of State
CONFIDENTIAState
Dear Colonel Stimson:
894.40634.-BASEBALL/3
I have an idea for bettering our relations with
Japan. or rather, the idea has me; for I am consumed
with its possibilities and utterly convinced. it is one
of the greatest forces imagineable for bringus closer to
the Japanese people. It will go farther to make our
people and the Japanese understand and like one another
than any one thing that has occurred since Townsend Harris
set the open door ajar. I do not mean ti imply that our
relations are not excellent now; but they could be better.
I propose to organize baseball in Japan.
A year, or two years at the latest, from now, I
see no reason on earth why the first international world's
series baseball championship cannot be played in Washing
ton, or anywhere that the baseball officials of the two
nations, in conjunction with the unofficial, perhaps, as-
sistance of the men in our governments, may stipulate. The
intense interest in our two countries, as well as around
the world, in such an international event would be unpre-
cedented in the history of sports.
Yachting, the Davis Cup, golf competition all are
sports which have done much to bring peoples together. We
FILED
feel we know people with whom we play. Baseball can do as
much or more for us and the Japanese, I feel sure.
2
I have been trying to see you pe rsonally to
tell you about this. I think fate has been rather unkind.
But I want you to know about it without further delay, and
am writing this letter to give you some idea of how I feel
about this great project---at least, I think it's great. It
is far from a new conception to me. I have thought of it
off and on for the past three or four years, in Japan and
since. I think now that there should be no more delay, be-
cause I believe baseball will be organized sooner or later,
and frankly I want to organize it.
Bassball has become the national sport of Japan.
I have seen 75,000 persons packed into the great steel and
concrete stadium between Kobe and Osaka to see high school

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
olonel Stimson,
Pago 2-
teems play off their final series for the high school cham-
pionship of Japan. It is unbelievable. The popularity of
the sport is simply beyond bounds. American college teams
go out every year or so, and the Japanese teams are every
bit a match for any of them---the Japanese college teams, I
mean, for there are no others to amount to anything. The
Japanese play a superior brand of baseball and with a year
or two in big league play, they could offer our best profes-
sional teams a very good match, and possibly come off ahead.
They will win a world's series one day, that is certain, but
they must first organize baseball over there.
I am writing to ask for your advice and support in
this project. 1 should like to urge that you consider it,
and 1 hope there will be some way in which you, unofficially
or otherwise, can help me keep the plan on the high plane it
must keep to succeed in the way 1 think it should. Done in
the right way, the organization of, let us say, the National
League of Japan can be immediately popular and can arouse
the imagination and interest of the people of both countries,
and of the world. Done in the wrong way, and made essential-
ly commercial, it can fizzle and prove of less value than no
attempt to start it at all. 1 am not certain what you can do
but if we consider it together, perhaps some solution will be
forthcoming. I want your reaction to the plan, which, to me,
is an idea that should be put into action.
If Baron Shidehara and other Japanese in high
places in Japan can be made to underttand that we are in-
terested in seeing our peoples literally play ball together,
then the play will succeed from the start, and the joy and
pleasure and understanding of our peoples, the man from the
middle of America and the highlands of Japan, will be un-
limited.
Prince Chichibu, younger brother of the Emperor of
Japan, is known as the "sporting prince." He opens regattas,
attends the races, likes tennis and golf and is democratic
and popular, as you of course know. No more delightful and,
I think, essential touch could be lent the sport of our na-
tion, baseball, that to have the Prince throw in the first
ball of the first game of the first baseball season in Japan!
Then, in later years when the American team goes to Tokyo to
play in the world's series---they should alternate, I think---
the Prince, representing the Emperor, could throw in the first
ball at the opening of the series.
Pictures of that marvelous event, stories of the
games, the thousands and thousands of words our journalists
would write and cable back about Japan will simply flood the
United States with a new and clearer picture of the Japanese,
and where we now know little of them and are inclined to dis-
like and fear the "yellow peril," we will like those people
out there and their picturesque islands. And the same will
be true from their point of view. The Japanese will send an

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
olonel Stimson,
an army of press men with their team and they will describe
the United States in detail, as well as the games. Cable
tolls will have to be lowered for this flood of news, and
as a result, during the year the press can afford to carry
news of current events in much greater volume than is prac-
tical from an expense point of view today.
You can see that I am enthusiastic. I could go
on talking about this scheme for hours.. I hope by the time
you have read this far that you, too, will have become en-
thusiastic. lersons who never went to a ball game in their
lives will go to see the Japanese play. The news stories
about styles, fashions and everything that the special writ-
ers and feature-story men and women of the press see will
be a great white light on these two civilizations, and make
us see that after all, we are not so very different from one
another.
Ty Cobb, the famous American player, will tell you
the Japanese play a very high class brand of baseball. So
will other American rofessional players who have visited
out there. Cobb went out about two years or so ago with two
or three other players. They played exhibition games, and
Cobb fanned out more times than otherwise, to the glee of
the Japanese. Cobb came away convinced the Japanese were
great ball players, and could provide competition for our
best teams.
I have kept this plan secret. Cnly half a dozen
close friends of mine know I ever contemplated such a move.
1 have been in doubt just how to go about the business of
putting it into action. I believe now the best way is first
to get the men in our own government interested, and once
you agree it could be a great force for better understanding,
as I hope and think you will, then to go ahead and take it up
with Judge Landis and other men in baseball in America. I
want your support, however, so that they cannot take it out
of my hands. And so that, also, the Japanese cannot take
it onto themselves, and possibly fail to make a success of it.
Also, it is impossible to copyright an Idea, either here or
there, and some support, official or impdied, would go far
toward keeping this work in my hands, or persons associated
with me in seeing it was done right.
It of course should be done with Japanese capital
only---a purely Japanese show throughout. It would never do
to try it otherwise. I could get capital in New York tomor-
row if 1 wanted to put it on an absolutely commercial basis
and go out there and buy up franchises and hire Japanese to
play baseball. I don 't. It has to be higher than that, and
I want it to be kept on a high, happy plane. I want the Jap-
anese to see the bigness of the idea and to take hold of it
themselves from start to finish.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
lonel Stimson,
The Japanese play baseball today as though they
had played it all their lives. Many have. It was intro-
duced into Japan early in this century by Dr. Isoo Abe, of
Waseda University in Tokyo. He since has resigned to enter
politics and is head, or was the last I heard, of the newly
organized Farm Labor Party. But he implanted the seed of a
great sport in the hearts of the Japanese and they have seen
that it grew spontaneously. Now it should be put to work for
the purpose for which perhaps Dr. Abe's early work in trans-
planting it across the Pacific was intended---to unite or to
bring to a happy understand ing our peoples.
That is the great theme of the idea. That I hope
to gain something out of in the way of founding my own for-
tunes and possibly become more or less economically indepen-
dent is a confession which I believe I can be frank to con-
fess to you, as my friend. I might then be able to pursue
my career in journalism unhampered by the imperative needs of
existence. Were I wealthy I would be just as intensely in-
terested in the plan from a purely altruistic viewpoint. 1
think the fact I may benefit by the achievement of this am-
bition to organize baseball in apan should not be permitted
to detract from its value as a great movement for public good.
I also think an American, some American, will be
necessary to give the Japanese the idea and then advise them
on how to propagate it.  I want to be that American for varied
reasons which are predominantly sentimental. I want to see
the project kept on the high plane it deserves to maintain,
with the proper support of the officials in Tokyo---a sup-
port there and here which can go far toward making or break-
ing the whole structure of this conception.
1 hope you can write to me soon about this. Per-
haps you will be in New York again shortly, and if so I
would be delighted to see you and talk with you fully on
this topic, which I trust interests you in some small mea-
sure as much as it does me. I have asked you keep it con-
fidential for obvious reasons, which I have touched on in
this letter.
With every assurance of my highest esteem and good
wishes, 1 beg to remain
Yours, moat gincerely,
Henry 4. Minsiwin
Henry P. Misselwitz
Col. Henry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.83)
October 6. 1980.
 . Misselse:
I have reseived your lnteresting Letter ef
894.40634.-BASEBALL/3
tsteber 2, in mhich yeu prepese the espasssatiem as
beseball in Japen fer the parpese of insugareting a
wesld ehempienchiy series, with a view to premeting
goed relatieme between Japen and the Baited States.
I ean understand bew, if the plan ceuld be easrieß
eat in the way you prepese, it might serve the ebjest
you have in mind, - with which I need not sey I an in
hearty sgupathy! bat I regret that I cammet share your
eptimim as to the prestiesbility of the ples.
I de net see hew basebaxl een new be ergasised in
withent plesing it uyen a pesseeiemel, and therefere
Mr. Hemry P. Misselwits,
Baited Pross Aseseiatiems,
werld Bailding.
Now Teak, Now Yoat

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
a eommeroial, basis; and I doubt if you wonld find
saffisient Japanese capital interested in mmeh an in-
vestment for some time to come.
The only maggestion I could offer would be that
you, with your enthusiasm and your grasp of the ides.
try it out on some of your Japanese friends who might
be interested and see how they respend to the proposal.
In the meantime I shall, of course, respeot your confi-
denos, and I request that you treat this reply as
eonfidential.
Very truly yours.
pll.
FE:RSM/ZMF
FE
10/6/30

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
0.1ox B0
18 mu n 18
Inw.ALd
NX NewYork NY OCt 8 30
JAN 21 1931
Col Henry L Stimson
Pranshm
894.40634-BASEBALL/4
Highly appreciated your splendid letter stop
Arranging be Washington saturday morning especially
see you if convenient please advise.
Henry F isselwitz
533p
10
4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.87)
10
OCT 8 30
P. Misseleits
(Tis Amm)
X New Yok nY
Telogram received. Am leaving here Friday noon until
Menday aftermoon.
4/BASEBALL/4
Honry L Stimson
(Received from the Secretary by phone Oct 8, 6:14 PM)
08B
16C8LYN

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
Nyd.
RECEIVED
United Press Associations
/16/30
OCT 16 1930
Dep't. of Stute
GENERAL OFFICES
File
October 15, 1930.
CONFIDENTIAL.
JAN 21 1931
Dear Colonel Stims or.:
Dept. of Stare
Perhaps I can write you briefly what I had in mind
when I telegraphed you last week that I could come to Washing-
ton to explain personally a further idea which I have had in
connection with my proposal to organize baseball in Japan and
thereby better our relations with the Japanese people. I am
very, very sorry not to have eeen you, however, because I think
I could tell you about it much better than I can write it.
First, however, I want to thank you for your splendid
reply to my letter of October 2. My own enthusiasm and know-
ledge of the idea, of course, make me firmly believe in the
practicability of the plan, and I am quite certain that I could
get the capital amone the Japanese to go ahead with it, once I
had the helpful interest of yourself and poseibly other men in
our government.
In my sincere desire to have you see this in the
same light that I do, namely, as a project for public ood and
5
better understanding ana sportsmanslip between us and the Jap-
anese, I am not &t &ll certain that I know exactly how to go
about presenting the case, but perhaps it can be stated like
this:
I shall see the Japanese, as you sueeest, who would
be directly interesteu in oreanizing baseball in Japan, but
before I see them I want the project to have the support, the
encouragement, possibly patronage is the wor, of our overn-
ment through the State Department. In similar fasnion., I be-
lieve we could get the same sort of encouragement on so im-
portant a project for good will from the Japanese foreign office.
That support, as I pointea out in my first corfiden-
tial letter, is vital tothe initial success of the plan, to
keeping the organization of our p ort in Japan on the high
7
91
plane which it deserves. Without the ir.terest of the men in
our government and in the Japanese government, such a project
could be futile, and I would be afraid to tackle it.
The first move, therefore, as it comes to me now, is
for me to get your interest and encouragement in a way that I
can use it at the proper time in Japar.. Would it be possible
therefore, for you to write me a letter briefly telling me that
you favor the idea, believing it something which could, as you

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
onel Stimson-
2-
say, merve the object of bringing our people closer to the Jap-
anese, and hoping the project might come to a successful and
early conclusion?
Could you not in the second place write a letter to
our ambassador in Tokyo, Mr. Forbes, introducirg me to him and
askirg him to do anything he can to further the plan?
I am so thoroughly held by the conception that this
playing ball with the Japanese can be a truly great move toward
understanding and peace in the Pacific that I am taking the lib-
erty of writing you thus frankly, if somewhat εropintly, about
it again.
To oreanize baseball i Japan woulc, as you say,
necessitate placinc it upon a professional, ana therefore, a
commercial basis. My poirt is, however, that there are graaes
of commercialism---that coercialism may be mphasized as the
essential feature of the plar and therefore possibly an obstacle
to such government support as I bel leve thoroughly essential to
the success of the proposal; or, and this is my hope, it can be
regarded merely as the machinery of organizint & great work for
better understanding.
To say that it is purely a commercial project, in
other words, would in & sense be true. It would be, hovever,
like maintaining that & horse is a horse, regaraless. And
that is just as true. But there is a difference between horses,
between a hack and a thoroughbred. And there is & great differ-
ence between usine tre orcanization of baseball to promote Eood
will, and admitting that the machir.ery of that instrument of
good will must be founded on sound ousiress procedure---and in
tending to regard it as unworthy because it has to have a sound
bus iness basis to succeed.
The pleasant tenor of your most coroial letter gave me
no reason to believe that you mieht tend toward hesitati ng to
offer your hel pful support to the proposal I nave made for the
reasar. that the idea is four.ded on business me tnods; but I am
writing you my every thought on the subject so that you may see
it in the same possibly sentimental put basically patriotic
light thst I do.
I do not believe I sho ld go to Mr. Debuchi first in
gaining a similar hearing and understanding of the plan from
the Japanese. I believe it would be better to take it up in
an absolutely informal way through Mr. Forbes and Baron Shide-
hara when I reach Tokyo.
In the meantime, however, I believe this should be
done:
I should go to Judge Landis and ask for his support,
and the support of organized baseball in the Uniled States,

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
onel 8tims on-
sge 3-
together with a letter from him expreesing agreement to play
the Japanese winning team in a worid series championship
match as soon as the Japanese have ortanized baseball and have
produced teams which they are ready to send to America for
euch a series.
In coine to Judge Landis, I pel ieve it esser.tial to
tell him, in confidence for the time bei ng and until the time
comes for the news of this plan to be maae public in a way to
arouse intereet and the ima ination of both peoples, that I
have your good will and patronace in this proposal. I have
every confidence under such circums tances Judge Lar.dis would
be willint to join and εupport the movement.
I bel ieve the next step tnen wo uld be to take the
matter up with William Wrieley, Jr., who has the means to go
ahead with the machinery of oreanizalion, and wno, being vit-
ally interested in baseball not orly as a sport but as an
enterprise, wo uld be willint to be the man publicly to sporsor
the project. His name could be the one to which the credit (if
I am not mistaken in callint it credit) would go for organizing
the sport in Japan for which he has aone so much and made so
popular in the Kiddle West in the United States, as owner of
the Chicago National League team, the Cuos.
Proceeding with my business machinery, which as I
say is the structure recessary to holú up the ideal wnich is
behind the entire thoueht, Mr. Wrioley, I belleve, ∞ uld be
induced to support the movement and possioly to sccompany me
to Tokyo to present the idea to the Japanese for the first time.
I should like to tell hin in confidence that our overnment
through the State Department is in sympathy with the plan, and
to exhibit your letter to i.sure nis interest 11. the project
and to make hin see it as a plan primarily to spreaa eood will.
Neither Judee Landis nor Mr. Wrigley knows anythine
about this at the moment. I have absolutely no douot, however,
that both will be sincerely in favor of the plan I have in mina
if I can present it to then in the manner descriped. We will
proceed to Japan, gain the support of official Japanese and
then, and only thei., pemit news of the project to be made publ ic.
At that time, statemer.ts from Washineton and Tokyo
might be forthcomine. with expressions from you of good will
and the hope our ations will play ball together and that we
may learn to know our neighbor better on the other side of the
Pacific. It will be a fascinatin story, not without its roman-
tic side, all of vhich appeals to me, and, I hope, to you. The
ends to which such a sport can o toward bringing us and the
Japanese closer together are far beyond the horizon, if not
limitless.
I wieh that I could have seen you to tell you these
things and my thoughts personally. However, this is second

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
e1 Stims on-
best, and I hope I have made myself clear. I hope more than
that that you agree with me in thinking the letters from you
a practical and possible manner in which to approach the suc-
cessful achievement of th is ideal.
I shall eaterly await your response, and in the mean-
t ime am marking this correspor.dence cor.f iaer.tial, as I shall
keep your reply.
Yours, noiycerelg.
Heim Missehion
Henry. Misselwitz
Col. Henry I. Stimeor.,
Secretary of State,
Washingta., D. C.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
S
October 18, 1930.
Dear Mr. Misselwits:
I have rece1ved your letter of October 15, l930,
regarding your plan for the promotion of friendly
8
394.40634-BASEBALL/
relations between the United States and Japan through
the organisation of a series of ohampionship baseball
games.
As I have previously stated I am in hearty sympathy
with the objeot you have in mind, but for obvious reasons
I do not think I should lend my offioial support to any
partioular plan designed to acoomplish this result through
commeroialised enterprise. I believe such a plan should
be taken up through private ohannels and I wish you every
success in your undertaking.
5
I an enolosing a letter of introduotion to our
Diplomatio and Consular officers, which you may present
to Ambassador Forbee at Tokyo or to any other of our
representatives abroad.
Very truly yours,
Enclosure:
Letter of introduotion.
Mr. Henry F. Misselwitz
United Press Associations,
World Building,
4
New York, New York.
S ROATHHR

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
United Press Associations
file
GENERAL OFFICES
WORLD BUILDING,NEW YORK CITY
Index Bran
January 20. 1951.
January 7, 1931.
JAN 21 1931
Dear Col onel Stims on:
Dept. of State
In conversation with Judge K. M. Landis, Commission-
894.40634+BASEBALL/6
er of baseball, recently, I took up with him the project orig-
inally outlined to you for the oreanization of baseball in
Japan.
The question arose as to whether I were privileged
to use your letter in connection with subsequent public an-
nouncements in relation to the plan, at the time of my arrival
in Japan.
I said that I had taken the matter up with you in
the first place in order that I mi ht o to the Japanese and
tell them that the project had your sym athetic although un-
official approval, and that you were interested in its suc-
cess as a means of bringing the peoples closer into contact
with each other.
I shoula like now, however, definitely to know
whether I may not use your letter in making pronouncements
personally and to the press in Japar.. I had thought this
clear enough, but it was not covn in black and white in our
previous correspondence.
Judce Lanais was very nuch interesteu in the idea, as
were the presiaerte of the Natiorul anu American leagues, Messrs.
Heyaler and Barnara, with vhon I have tulkec aoout it. They
must now take it up for aproval with the verious inaiviaual club
owners in each leaeue, and that is more or less where the pro-
ject row stands.
Incidentully, the two leagues at their joint meeting
here last month approvea, amone other tines, a trip to Japan
next fall of an Americar. team of major leaeue players, to tour
the country playine exhibitior cames---a tour which shoula be
more favorable then otherwise to my plans.
Yours, most aincerely,
()
Reum f Misehin
Henry F. Misselwitz
Col. Herry L. Stimson,
Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.85)
January 20, 1951.
.
I have your letter ef Juumery 7, 1961.
I regret thet I mt ast yes net te se
894.40634/BASEBALL/6
o2 Lotter te you, dated Cetober 16, 19s0, in
making premsumeenente persenally er to the press in
Sapen. to permit ef ite ue in connset ien máth a
privete enterprise of this charecter weald be cen-
trery te e well-established peliey ef the Depertment.
I  sure you ean well appreeiate the immdvisebility
of mring exeeptieme to a rule which in besed an
sound, prectical ressens.
I an glad to nete the pregress yee are mking
fn your prejeet and I wish you all sussese in the
altiate reelisation of yowr plans.
Yeure sinserels,
LL BTIMSON
M. Bemry P. Misselwits.
Saited Press Lssesiatioms.
Berld Bailding,
Bew York Gity.
A true copy af
a2k.
the signed orig-
inal.
CR

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1-1880
FROM
31
Ans
a.
10wu wx. 8.
PECIAL
wil
JAN 20 1931
nx New York, Jan 20-31
Col Henry L Stimson
MR. KLOT8
Did you receive my letter of January seventh
894.40634.-BASEBALL/7
Henry F Misselwitz
3.15pm
2
FILED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
PARING OFFIOE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Collect
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Charge Department
PLAIN
Charge to
Washington,
5
January 20, 1931.
JAN2031
Mr. Henry F. Misselwitz,
United Press Associations,
894.40634-BASEBALL/7
World Building,
New York City.
Letter received. Reply mailed you today.
HENRY L. STIMSON
Secretary of State
U.7.15.
Q.7.k.
SA
ATK:MA
mno
5W040N
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
Index Bu.-No. 50.
1-188

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.40634/
SEE
032 Harvard Bal1 Team/1
FOR .Letter
FROMPresident
) DATED DeC,27.1933
NAME
1-1197
8
REGARDING:
Visit of Harvard University ball team to Japan.
Encloses letter regarding invitation for -,
to compete against some of the leading colleges
in Japan.
8
mee

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.40634 BASEBAL L/
SEE ....032.Harvard.Ball..Team/3
FOR ....Tel.
FROM
Bingham William J.
) DATED May 18,1934
10
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Invitation to liarvard baseball tear. to
play ganes at Japan with Japanese
Universities.Advises of -, and asks
whether ga es are under auspices of
Japanese Oolleges.
6
med

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 10, 1934.
This letter requests support of a
scheme to organize a baseball league in
Japan, of major league grade and national
in scope. Specifically, a letter from the
Seoretary of State is sought approving the
projoct, or introducing the writer to our
Ambassador in Tokyo with a view to getting
his unofficial support. The object of the
undertaking:
1. To improve Japanese-American
relations and
2. To profit from the enterprise.
I doubt if encouragement should be
given to the project for the following
reasons:
1. Japan has shown little real
interest in professional baseball --
being satisfied with the collegiate
variety; and
2. Baseball between Japanese and
American teams has heretofore not
proved especially good for our relations.
The aggressive nature of the game and
marked differences in interpretation of
rules have not infrequently left un-
pleasant effects on the participants.
FEYLDS/DLY
894.40634-Baseball/10.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
att: Mv Dooman
3
United Press Assoriations
RECEIVED
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
JNGORPORATED I NEW VORK
GENERAL OFFICES
NEWS BUILDING NEW YORK CITY
FAR EXSTERN AFFAIRS
INFORMATION
DIVISIO OF
00- 1934
Sopt. 21, 1934
SEP 22 1934
AND RECURDS
894.40634-Daral
Dear he:
Thanks a lot for writing me about my letter en baseball in Japen 
894.40634-BASEBALL/10
I wrote to steve Barly some weeke age. I realised be was basy these days
and thought he might refer the note to the State Department.
I get your point of view absolutely on the Administration's tak-
ing any formal active interest in the spread of our national sport abroed
even as a good will gesture. I hadn't that se much in mind, as I had a let-
ter frem, say, Searetary Hall, to me, maying be has noted the projeet, is
isterested in it and would hope that, handled propertly, it could susceed.
Suck a brief letter, informal but giving the Seeretary's viewe on sueh a
meve, eould be of inestimable value and yet be umofficial and in keeping with
what the government officials, in their private capacity, more or less, ean
de in indireet support of this broad proposal.
Ceafidentially---as all this correspondence must be kept for ob-
vious reasons---I wrete Colonel stimsen back in 1930-31 about this idea, and
he was intensely interested in it. He wrote me a very nice letter abest hew
he heped it would sucesed but that, of course, he could not give his afficial
support to the projeet, but thought if handled properly it could prove a good
thing all around. But it was impossible to raise a dime at that time, I got
married, moved to Washington, and time marahed on until the letter was out of
date, and my idea sert of shoved in the baskground.
I have revived it of late, and if I can count on the sympathetic
approval, and so on, of the Department, with a letter of that sert frem Mr.
Hull, or a letter ef introduction from him te Ambassedor Grew with a werd it
would be ekay to give me his umofficial support in Tokyo if and when I go, I
think I can put it over this winter. It cortainly is an intriguing idea, and
I ean't get rid of it... I've had it since l926, out in Japan. Fer your owm
satisfaction and added information on this baseball crase out there, yeu might
FILED
use ef that fast. If I were independently wealthy, I'd go ahead with it just
the same, believe it er net, for I believe in the ideal as well as the idea.
2
Please keep this all under your hat fer the momee, Mac, fer am idea
is hard to eepyright. Semebedy might run under me om it, emoe it got areund,
and my pet sekeme ef the ages would go glimmoring. And I would appreedate a
nete frem you on what you think ean be dene on the above, if anything.
 Stphen T. Early.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.81)
Bopt. 22, 2924.
Bear Steves
I have jurt had a very alee Letter fram Mebeomete aboue
and mm enelealng a eepy of my reply to kdn, fer your infemmssten.
A note af the sert I heve ln mind fren the Bopertment I
belleve would be la lime with hie letter, and atall heep the gove
eranané oè of it. It wonld pormit mo tham to preesed wt ldndng
up Jedge Landée and erganised besdball with letters expressing ep
prevel, mnd get thie ball relling at lang last.
In the ovent you think it apprepriate, if you coald give
the Preatdent seme inkisng of teds sdea, and ideal, I weuld appre
elate 2s. And ss you over mot we thde wey and heve a meent, I wiah
you weald lot me kme. I'd lake to tell you more about the idee, amang
other thinge mhieh in the meentime mest be strietly cenfidential.
All the best.
siseerely,
Heary T. misselwits
Gable mMiter.
Mr. stephen T. Xarly,
The ite Komse,
Waskingten, D. 0.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
August 21, 1934
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP 6 - 1934
Dear Mac:
Department of State
I am sending you a confidential Tetter
received today from Henry Misselwitz of the
United Press, whom you probally will remember.
894.40634-BASEBALL/11
Henry's project is int resting in that
it is unique. Of course, there is no place for
White House action and I pass it along to you,
confidentially, asking that you or some on else
in the Department write Henry, exnlsining our
position as well as yours.
Very singerel yours,
MAY
1935
the resident
Mr. Michael J. McDermott,
State Department,
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure.
FILED
894.40634-Boeebal

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
United Press Assoriations
joRnare i ew e
GENERAL OFFICES
NEWE BUILDING NEW YORK CITY
New York, . Y.,
Aug. 18, 1934.
(CONFIDEITIAL!!)
894.40
Dear StevE:-
I m going to writE you A long and rather unusual lEtter, And
I would likE to Ask that you tAE tinE to rEAd it All thE way through,
somE day when you havE An hour to sparE, for I'd likE you to gEt the
picturE through this mEmorandum, thoroughly. I, of coursE, Am utterly
9
convinced it is worth thE Effort or wouldn't writE it.
3
I proposE to organizE bAseball in JApan. I havE A number of
rEAsons, includ ng: A) this would bE onE of thE most EffEctivE ways in
the world EventuAlly to better relations betwEen thE pEoples of the
United States And JApan, through A world sEriEs somE fivE or Even 10
yEArs in thE futurE; And b) it might makE mE somE nonEy.
ThE first of thEsE is thE major part of that picturE, but I
would not be Altogether fair if I omitted thE sEcond point. Such A
movE has to havE A sound businEss foundation to succeEd, of coursE,
And yEt dEspitE that AnglE, which should bE minor in thE main consid-
Eration, thE greater good fron internationalizing our national sport
should predominatE and overcomE Any falsE qualms About thE Economic
sidE ofthE question.
I proposE to go to Japan and organizE the liational LEAguE
of Japan. I Am writing you to sEE whether thE Administration would
not bE interested, through Either thE WhitE ousE, itsElf, or thE DE-
partment of StatE, in Encouraging such A rEal "nEw dEal" Approach to
A very vital problem. You can't hatE A man you Actually play ball with,
and I Am AbsolutEly convinced that organizati on of basEball in Japan
Eventual ly will go further to lakE our pEoplE and the JapanesE under-
stand and likE onE mother than any onE thing that has occurred since
TowmsEnd HArris sEt thE CpEn Door AjAr. I do not mEAn to imply that
our relations ArE not ExcEllent now; but they could bE better.
For the last seven or Eight yEars, herE And whilE living in
Japan from 1924-27, I havE bEEn working on thE idEA. In A fEw yEars 
FILED
from now, oncE their lEAguEs ArE organizEd And thE En trained, I sEE
no rEason on Earth why the first international world's series baseball
championship cannot bE playEd in WAshington, or AnywherE thE basEball
officials of thE two nations---in conjunction with thE unofficiAl, pEr-
haps, AssistancE of thE mEn in our governments---may stipulatE. ThE
intensE intErEst in our two countriEs, As wEll As Around thE world, in
such an international Event would bE unprEcedentEd in thE history of
sports. I mean it.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
Yachting, thE Davis Cup tEnnis, international gol& ∞mpEti-
All are sports which have done much to bring peoples together. WE
1 wE kmow pEoplE with whom wE play. Baseball can do As much, or
rE, for us And thE JapanEsE, I fEEl cErtain. AmbassAdor Bullitt BEems
to hAvE something of thE sAmE thought in RussiA, which is what gAvE mE
the ideA President Roosevelt might bE interested in giving unofficial
Approval through our Embassy in Tokyo or the StatE DEpartment, to such
an idEA As I hAVE in mind.
How this could bE donE I don't know, but wE could talk that
over And iron it out oncE the idEA was sold. Possibly A lEtter from
SEcretary Hull to Ambassador Grew sAying this looks like A good idEA,
And Any hElp hE could rendEr would bE All right, Et cEterA, And to sound
out thE ForEign OfficE out therE to havE thE JapanEsE in an Approving
framE of mind would bE thE Approach. But that could bE sEttlEd later.
To gEt you to sEE this is thE first problem---As A rEAl mEans of bring-
ing our two powers togEther And sEE EyE-to-EyE in thE Pacific As folks.
I hAvE bEEn convinced All Along that thE idEA should bE kEpt
on A high planE rather than mErely going out and buying up A bunch of
players herE and therE, and starting our national sport in A scrubby.
way in that nAtion of much EtiquettE. ThE opening is EvErything; And
I should want it kEpt AbovE thE taint of  profEssionalism which is A
rEAl taint to thE JApanESE, I must confEss, EvEn morE than to thE British.
They AdorE BabE Ruth, and his namE is A by-word in Every homE; but they
look down on professionalism in their own AthlEtes. HEncE, thE Approach
must be from the top.
My idEA is thereforE to gEt our government's Approval in A
way that I could usE it; then gEt organized baseball's Approval herE in
thE United States, okaying thE spread of our sport and Agreeing Eventually
to consider possiblE nEgotiations for A world sEriEs in thE futurE; and
with that support, I bEliEvE I could swing it in Lokyo with A minimum
of dElay And difficultiEs. But it would bE EsBEntiAl to gain thosE back-
Ers first, I think, to go About it right.
Baseball, As you probably know, already has becomE the national
sport of Japan. ThEir collEgE tEAms bEAt our collEgE tEAms; And thEir
organkzed tEams (NCT profEsslonal) could play ours on an Even basis After
A very few yEars in LEaguE play. Will Rogers' box herewith is onE of A
myriad commEnts which indicatE this trend.
I hAVE, BEEn 75 000 JApAnEsE packEd into thE grEAt steE1 and
concretE stadium betwEen Robe and OsakA, in West Japan, to sEE high
school tEams play off their final sEriEs for thE high school champion-
ship of JApan. It is unbEliEvAblE. ThE popularity of thE sport is
simply beyond bounds. AmErican collEgE tEAms go out EvEry yEAr or so, And
thE JApanEsE collEgE tEAms ArE EvEry bit A match for them. Harvard is
out thErE with A tEAm now, And gEtting lickEd. ThE JapanesE play A
good brand of basEball, mAkE no mistAkE, dEspitE their sizE, And with A
couplE or thrEE yEars of big lEAguE plAy out therE, thEy ∞ uld offer
our best profEssional tEams A match for their money. They will win A
world's sEriEs onE day, that is certain; but first they must organizE
baseba1l.
I am writing to Ask your advicE and support in this project.
I should like to urgE that you consider it, and I hopE there will be
somE way in which you can hElp kEEp thE plan on thE high planE it must

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
(confidentiAl)-
tion can be immediately popular and can arousE the imagination
arest of thE pEoplE of both countriEs, And of thE world. Done
wrong way, and made Essentially commercial, it can fizzle and
E of less valuE than no Attempt to start it at All.
If Foreign Minister HirotA and other JapanEsE in high places
in Japan can bE madE to undErstand that wE ArE intErestEd in sEEing our
pEoplEs literally plAy ball togEthEr, then thE plAn will succeEd from
the start, and thE plEasurE And understanding of thE pEoplE---thE man
from thE middlE of AmEricA, thE highlAnds of JApan---will bE unlimitEd.
PrincE Chichi bu, younger brother of thE Emperor, is known As
the "sporting.princE." HE opens rEgattAs, Attends thE rACEs, likes tEnnis
and golf and is dEmocratic And popular, As you may know. No morE dElight-
ful And, I think, EssEntiAl touch could bE lEnt thE sport than to hAvE
this young PrincE throw in thE first ball of thE first gamE of thE first
baBEball SEAson in Japan! In later yEars, when thE American tEam goEs
to Tokyo to play in thE world's sEriEs, thE PrincE, rEprEsenting thE JApan-
EsE EmpirE, could throw in thE first BAll At thE opEning of thE sEriEs.
Pictures of that Event, storiEs of thE gamEs, thE thousands and
thousands of words our journalists would writE and cablE back About Japan
would simply flood thE UnitEd States, And givE A nEw And clEarer picturE
of thE JapanEsE, And wherE wE now know littlE of thEm And ArE inclinEdto
dislikE And fEAr thE "yEllow pEril," wE will likE thosE pEoplE out thErE,
And thEir picturEsquE islands. And thE sAmE will bE truE from their
point of viEw. ThE JapanEsE will sEnd An Army of prEss mEn with their
tEAm And thEy will dEscribE thE UnitEd StatEs And thE pEoplE And customs
in dEtAil, As wEll As thE gamEs. CAblE tolls will havE to bE lowerEd for
this flood of nEws And As A rEsult, during thE rEst of thE yEar thE prEss
will be able to Afford to carry nEws of current Events in much greatEr
volume than is practical from An ExpEnsE point of viEw today.
You can sEE I Am Enthusiastic. I could go on talking About
this for hours. I hope by thE timE you havE rEAd this far that you will
have become Enthusiastic, as well. Fersons who never went to A ball game
in their livEs will go to SEE thE JApanEsE plAy. ThE nEws storiEs About
styles, fAshions And Everything that thE spEciAl writers And fEaturE men
And womEn of thE prEss sEE will bE A grEAt whitE light on thEsE two civil-
izati ons and makE us sEE that After AIl, wE ArE not so very different
from onE another.
Ty Cobb, thE GEorgiA pEAch, will tEll you thE JApanEsE play A
very high class brand of bAsEball. So will othEr AmErican profEssionAl
players. Cobb was out therE A few yEars Ago with two or threE other
players. They played Exhibition gamEs, And Cobb fanned morE timEs than
otherwisE, to thE gleE of thE JapanEsE. HE camE Away convinced the Japan-
EsE werE great ball players, and could providE competition for our best.
I havE kEpt this plAn A sEcrEt. I want to continuE to do so,
until I Am rEAdy to brEAk it, possibly from out thErE, if And when I go.
I want your support so that I'al Also havE some protection Against some-
onE's stEaling thE idEA, oncE I givE it out. That is EAsy Enough, and
AnidEA is hard to protEct. It is impossiblE to copyright An idEA, and
some support, official or implied, would eo far toward kEeping this work
in my hands, to sEE it is donE right. It has bEen my baby off and on
for some yEars; and I should dislikE intensel y losing it now.
It of coursE should bE donE with JapanEsE cAp ital only---A

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
(confidantial)-
panesE show throughout. It would nEver do to try it othervi sE.
thE JApAnEsE to BEE thE BignEss of thE idEA and tAkE hold of it
Elves, from start to finish.
I think, though, that An American, somE American, will bE nEc-
EBsAry to givE thE JApAnEsE thE idEA And thEn AdvisE thEm how to uSE it.
I want to be that A Erican for thE reasons stated, A  for senti ental
rEAsons, As WEll. I WAnt Lo BEE it E t oI lhE  i h planE it dEsErVEs---I
cAn't ovErEmphasizE that fro the JA AnEsE viEwpoint. And to keep it
thErE it dEsErvEs thE support hErE And out thErE of officiAls, which can
go far toward naking or breakine the whole structure of this conception.
I hopE you can writE rE soon About this. As I say, I don't
know yet just what you can do, oncE you want to do anything. Iossibly
somE such lEtter As  havE in i AbovE Weul! do thE trick. OncE thE
JapanEsE knEw Washington VAs wnofficiAlly orE or lEss, in favor of the
project, they woull fall i lit, feel sure. yway, let E mow what
you think, An T! ho ill you'll JEE  is As  do, As A rA chancE to
lEt sports tAl.E carE of EhE troubled situalion. A CA E And A chat often
havE donE A lot morE than A bArrEl of i lo Atic lotEs to sEttlE sonE
knotty Affair, like our problr s out therE Are rui in into, And this
is my hopE for basEball.
I ArpreciAtE this nay All sound suddEn And outlandish to you;
but Ask Anybody At thE JA AnEsE Embassy, y oll friEnd GEorgE Bronson
REA, of  Anchukuo, At the Shorehal, And AnyonE ElsE who hAs been very
long in thE Far EAst, And they'll LEll you how crazy thE JA AnEsE rEAlly
ArE About basEball. It is AlrEAdy thEir national sport.
I should likE to Ask you lEEp this strictly confidential, for
obvious rEAsons. If it doEsn't click, I still want to rE ain A working
nEwspapErman.
BEst wishes, tevE, And lEt mE know what you think.
Heury.
Henry F. isselwitz.
Stephen T. EArly, Esq.,
White HousE,
WAshington, D. C.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 8, 1934.
61.
Mr. MoDermott:
B feels that it would be best for Mr.
Early to make the reply to Mr. Misselwits.
Among other reasons: first, Misselwitz asks
him to keep the matter "striotly conridential";
and, second, it would be better to have the
eorrespondenee informal than to have it made
formal by the sending by this Department, on
the basis of a referonce of Misselwitz's
letter by the White House, of a departmental
roply.
FE has drafted and sends you herewith
its idea of a letter which Mr. Early might
address to Mr. Misselwitz.
SKH
FB:SKH/ZMK

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
September 8, 1954.
PRAFT LETTER
Dear Henry:
I have read with interest your confidential letter of
August 18 with regard to your plan to organise baseball
in Japan.
You inquire with regard to possible interest and action
on the part of the Administration. In that conneotion, I
may as well come right to the point: I cannot give you any
enoouragement to erpeot any manifestation of ofricial approval
or baoking. If the White House or the Department of State
in any way associated themselves with a project suoh as you
outline, they would be called upon to do likewise with an
ondless number of other projeots, and if they responded favor-
ably to some requests and unfavorably to others they would be
charged with disorimination -- to say the least. It seems to
me that your prospeotus relates to a projeot whioh, though it
may
Mr. Honry F. Misselwitz,
United Press Associations,
News Building,
Now York, Now York.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
may have effeets whieh will be of publie interest, 1s a
puroly private undertaking.
Nevertheless, I think it may reasonably be assumed that
a great many Americans both in and out of the Administration
would watoh with sympathetic interest an effort to organise
baseball in Japan and work toward international playing of
the game. You could reasonably expect suoh cooperation on
the part or Amerioan officials abroad as would be appropriate.
You perhaps already know that Amerioan Ambassadors in Japan
have in the past frequently participated in ceremonies
inoidental to the opening of baseball games between American
and Japanese teams. I am informed that Mr. Grew threw the
first ball in the first game played, recently, by the Harvard
University team with Japanese teams, in Japan. It may be
confidently expected that the Ambassador and other ofricials
of the American Government in Japan will continue to foster,
so far as they may appropriately do so, the playing of base-
ba11

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.93)
- 3 -
ball between American and Japanese organizations. But we
cannot expeot to conneot or associate the American Govern-
ment with the enterprise.
Yours sincerely,
FR:SKH/ZMK
FB
CI

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
September 19, 1934
Deer Beasy:
Steve Larly is awfully buey and after we salked
ever your letter, asked me to busz around the Depart-
moat and find out what they really think of your
soheme.
894.40634-BASEBALL/11
You inquire with regard to possible interest and
aotion on the part of the Administration. In that
conneotion, Imy as well come right to the point: I
eannot give you any encouragement to expeot any mani-
festation of official approval or baoking. If the
White House or the Department of State in any way as-
sociated thémselves with a projeot suoh as you outline,
they would be called upon to do likewise with an end-
less number of other projeots, and if they responded
favorably to some requests and unfavorably to others
they would be oharged with disorimination -- to say
the least. It seems to me that your prospeotus relates
to a project whioh, th ugh it may have effeots which
will be of publio interest, is a purely private under-
taking.
Nevertheless, I think it may reasonably be assumed
that a great many Amerioans both in and out of the
Administration would watoh with sympathetio interest
an effort to organise baseball in Japan and work to-
ward international playing of the game. You could
reasonably expeot suoh cooperation on the part of Amer-
lcan offioials abroad as would be appropriate. You
perhaps already know that American Ambassadors in Japan
have in the past frequently partioipated in ceremonies
inoidental to the opening of baseball games between
American and Japanese teams. I am informed that Mr.
Grew threw the first ball in the firet game pla,
Mr. Renry F. Wisselwits,
United Press Assooiations,
News Building,
Now York, New York

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
pecemtly, by the Narvard University teas with
ameme teams, in Japan. It may be confidemtly
peeted shat the Ambassador and other offieials
of she Ameriean Government in Japan will contimue
er assosiate the Amesioan Government with the eates-
prise.
Yours sineerely,
M. J. MoDermott, Chies
Division of Current Informetion.
CI:DMK:MJM:G8

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
15CK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 15, 1934.
AYA
CI:
anse.
Mr. McDermott.
FE suggests that your reply to
Mr. Misselwitz be along the lines of the
attached draft.
Reforring to the last paragraph of
that draft, we do not know whether the
Departmont will wish, without receiving
the usual request from a member of
Congress, to issue to Mr. Misselwitz a
letter of introduction to American
diplomatic and consular officers. We
would suggest that, in case you feel it
desirable that the Department issue such
a letter, this point be taken up with
the Seoretary's office and with PD.
uth  mioelnt i

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAET
October 15, 1934.
I have your letter of September 21, l934, requesting
an informal letter from the Secretary of State, or a
letter from the Seoretary introducing you to the American
Ambassador at Tokyo, indicating his interest in your
effort to organize baseball in Japan.
Since the receipt of your letter I have read the
letters mentioned by you which Mr. Stimson sent you under
dates Ootober 16, 1930, and January 20, 1931. It seems to
me that the position he took in those letters was essentially
the same as the position set forth in my letter of September
19, l934, namely, that we cannot expert to connect or
associate the Government with a particular enterprise which
is private and commercial in character, but that you may
expect appropriate cooperation on the part of American
diplomatio and consular officials in Japan.
If you wish to have, for presentation to Ambassador
Grew at Tokyo or any other of our representatives abroad, a
letter of introduction to our diplomatic and consular
offioers such as that which was sent to you with Mr. Stimeon's
letter of Ootober 16, 1930, I think that I may be able to
arrange to have such a letter issued to you. I should also
be glad, if you so desire, to send to Ambassador Grew copies
of our recent interchange of letters.
Sincerely yours,
M. J. MoDermott, Chief,
Division of Current Information.
Mr. Henry F. Misselwitz,
United Press Associations,
News Building,
New York, New York.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
7E
Barball
7
11 1936
GENERAL OFFICES
1936 JUL 13 AM 10 3
UILDING NEW YORK CITY
July 7, 1936.
CIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS
livision of
Cordell Hull, g
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State,
JUL S-1936
Washington, D.C.
OFFICE oR INE SLURLIANY
Deaartn eot of State
894.40634
Dear Mr. Secretary:
Pursuant to our conversation in your offices at the Dopar tment of State
a few days ago concerning the establ ishment of our national sport of baseball in
Japan on an organized basis, I am taking you at your word and giving you more
complete information on the idea-or ideal-which would go far toward bettering
the already excellent relations with our neighbors across the Pacific.
I propose the formation of the National League of Japan.
To do this, baseball muat be kept on the high plane on which the
informal letter from you which I uggested last month while in Washington would
certainly keep it. Incidentally a move such as this by you as our Seoretary of
State also would be recorded throughout not only the island empire of Japan and
these United States, but the world-and would be of no mall historic value as a
long step toward crystallizing our friendship aoross the Pacific with those
peoples living in that little-known land.
In pursuing this program and getting it under way it is necessary to
2
start in the correct way and keep it on the right path through informal
expressions from men in our government. I am utterly convinced of the truly
great good such a League in the sports could do for "hands across the sea," as is
evidenced by the Davis Cup in tennis, the Olympics in all sorts of games, and so
on. My "plan of attack," mo to speak, in this rather novel idea-to many persons,
although it is a very old idea to me for I began thinking and working on it while
in Japan some ten years ago-is this:
1. To gain the sympathy of the governments in bo th nations and make
that sympethy practical through informal expressions from leaders of importance
on bo th sides of the Pacific. This will keep the idea onthe plane I believe 1s
essential, and thus appeal to the Japanese more readily.
2. Then, to get a similar letter from Judge K.M. Landis, the High
Commissioner of organized baseball in the United States, informally setting forth
that the men in our national sport are interested in the movement for organizing
baseball in Japan and willing in the future to discuss the possibilities of a
real World Series between the Japanese pennant winners and the winners of the
Series among the American "big league" teams, say Washington, Detroit, New York,
or whatever. That would be important also-and I believe quite possible to
0
obtain, once I had heard from you first.
Q

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
oretary Bull
- 2 -
July 7, 1936.
3. To get a let ter from the Japanese Ambassador in Washington, Hiros1
Saito, setting forth his interest in such a movement and informal sympathetie
support from this end. Thm, in Tokio, to get a letter from the Gaimusho (Foreign
Office) there similar to all of these. Ambassador Saito told me at luncheon
while in Weshington that he would be willing to give me such a letter my time I
wented it.
with such approval-always informal and never actually connecting any
Government official directly wd th the plam-the foration of the League in Japan
would be on the high plme which I rei terate is essential if it is to succeed at
all. If Premier Hirota of Japm and othe Japanese in high pleces out there cm
be made to understand that we over here are interested in seeing our two peoples
literally play ball together then the idea will succeed from the start, and the
pleasure and understanding among the "men in the street" all over the United
States as well as in Japan will be unlimited.
As I told you in Washington, the President grasped this idea as a good-
will movement immediately and insisted that I inform you that he was very much
interested in such a project. He also said that he would be delighted to write a
letter to our Ambassador in Tokio when we proceed thre to start the ball rolling.
which I hope will be not later than this coming fall. Naturally, that would be
of reat help, and while the Presidmt of course was speaking quite "off the
record," I believe that he was also quite serious in his desire to see this good-
will idea of mine at last succeed. His idea, as I also told you, was to have a
real World Series eventually between Japan and our team in New York or Washington
one year before too long, then to have it in Japan, and to play the third World
Series game in Honolulu. That is quite along the lines which I myself have long
been thinking, and I was surprised at his rapid grasp of the potentialities of
sports in diplomacy.
Baseball has become the national sport of Japan in recent years. I have
seen seventy-five thousand persons packed into a great steel and concrete stadium
between Kobe and Osaka to see high-school teams play off their final series for
the school championmbip of Japam. It is well-nigh unbelievable. The popularity
of the sport is simply beyond bounds. American college teams go out every year
or so and the Japanese teams are every bit a matoh for any of them-the Japanese
college teams, I meen, for there are no others there to amount to anything as yet.
The Japenese play a superior brand of baseball, and with a year or two in
organised big league play, they ∞uld offer our best professional teams a very
good match. They will win a World Series one day, that is certain-but they must
have organized baseball over there to do it.
Possibly you recall that some of our baseball heroes went over to Japan
a year or so ago, and were given a great weloom there by the Japanese from high
to low. Babe Ruth was among those who played on that "piak-up" tem-and the
Japanese nearly mobbed him wherever he went. Such nemes as his, Ty Cobb, and
others well-kmown in this country are household words all over Japem and have been
for some years.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
Jarotarybmll
- 3 -
Ju1y 7, 1956.
Prince Chichibu, younger brother of the Emperor of Japan, is known as
the "Sporting Prince." He opene regattas, attends the races, likes tennis and
golf and 1s democratie and popular, as you no doubt know. No more del ightful and
I think essential touch could be lent the port of our nation, baseball, than to
have the Prinee throw in the first ball of the first gee of the first beseball
seasen in Japan. But if the World Seri es is played in this country, possibly
President Roosevelt would do the honors as he does mnually for the Washington
nino.
Pictures of that marvelous event in the ports world, stories of the
gemes, thousands and thousends of words our jourmalists and the Japanese would
write and cable back and forth across the Pacifie, would dmply flood both countries
at each series. We would get a new md clearer picture of the Japamese, and they
would get a far better picture of us-and the cammunications companies perforce
would have to lower the cable and radio rates not only for this news but in general.
Thet wuld be a great help in news the year round from both countries, which I be-
lieve would keep the nations in far better focus to the average man in each. Where
we know little of them now and are inclined to dislike and fear the "Yellow Peril"
we would come to admire and understand those people out there and their picturesqus
islands, and the same would be true from their point of view.
Doubtless by now you will see that I m quite enthusiastic. In fact, as
I wrote Colonel Stimson some years ago while he was in the State Departmmt, I could
go on talking about this idea for hours. I hope by the time you have read this far
you, too, will have become enthusiastic. Persons who never went to a ball game in
their lives will go to see the Jepanese play. The news stories about fashioms,
styles and everything that the special writers and feature-story men and women of
the press see will be a great white light on these two civilization-and will make
us see that after all we are not so very different from one mother.
Of caurse, it wauld be done entirely dth Japanese capital-a purely
Japamese "show" throughout. I think it would never do to try it otherwise. It is
entirely possible that I could get sufficient capital in New York tomorrow if I
wanted to and also wanted to put it on an entirely commercial basis and go out
there and buy up franchises and hire Japanese to play baseball. But I don't and
never have wanted to go into it in that way. It has to be on a higher plame than
that if I am to do anything wi th this idea which I have had for so long a time.
The Japanese should be mde to see the bigness of my good-will movement through our
national sport of baseball and take hold thmselves, onee given a start.
An Ameriem will be necessary to give the Japanese the idea at first and
perhaps advise them on how to propagate it. Confidentially, I want to be that man.
My reasons are predominantly sentimntal and patriotic-and if I had a million
dollars or ten million I still would want to see this thing so over. Merely
because it has to have a substantial business structure back of it to sueceed should
not, I believe, prevent your taking an informal interest in it as m avenue for
really lasting understending and friendahip which this well could be, onee organised
in the right way. Support from Washington, informal and yet practical, as well as
in Tokio, can  far toward making or breaking the hole structure of this idealistie
oonooptiom.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
6tary Ball
July 7, 1936.
I could write you considerably more concerning the ability of the
Japanese baseball team and the indi vidual players, but believe that this is suf-
ficient and that that goes without saying. If you desire any further information
like that I can refer you to experts in our ∞lleges much as Harvard, Chicago
University or California, as well as such organized or "professional" players
mentioned above who have gone out there. I cam only assure you that given two
or three years of organized play the Japanese will have several teams, represent-
ing such ci ties as Tokio, Kobe, Osake or wherever they are formed, who will give
our cities e run for their money.
I m enclosing herewith a muggested lotter whi ch I would like to have
from you as the informal expression of your sympathy toward my proposed National
League in Japan. This ia merely a suggestion, of ∞urse, and can be used merely
as the basis for compilation of such an epistle by you to give the project your
blessing. I hope that you can send something like this along before the end of
the month so that I may next proceed with my plan of attack and to get a similar
letter from Judge Landis. Then we will be "on oar way."
With every assurance of my highest esteem and good wishes, I beg to
remain
Yours most sinceraly,
Henry Misehenrs
Henry F. Misselwitz.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
SUGOESTED LETTER
Mr. Henry F. Misselwits,
The United Press Assooiations,
220 East 42nd Street,
New York, N.Y.
Dear Mr. Misselwi tz:
My attention has been brought to your
proposal to organize the Amarican national sport of base-
ball in Japan, and the formation of the National League of
Japan there.
While I of course cannot officially
support such a project, permit me to advise ycs that I am
personally very much interested in the success of such a
plan, which should go far toward the promotion of good
will and understanding between our people and the people
of Japan through an eventual World Series between the two
nations. In my personal capacity I therefore wish you
every success in your efforts.
Yours very truly,
Cordell Hull,
Secretary of State.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.93)
July 11 1930
My dear Mr. Misselwits:
I am directed by the Secretary to ackmowledge the
Pessept of your letter of Juiy 7, 1oss, in shiet you
.40634-BASEBALL/1
proposs the organisation of baseball in Japan and the
imsmguration of a world shempionship series with a view
to promoting good relations between Japen amd the United
states.
This matter hes been given careful consideretiom by
the Searetary. He feels that there is no reasem at this
time to differ with the views expressed in a letter to
you under date Jamuary 20, 1931, by the former Seeretary
2
of state, Mr. Henry L. stimson, and in a letter to you
under date September 19, 1934, by Mr. M. J. MeDermott ef
this Departmant.
while
Mr. Hamry P. Misselwits,
United Press Assesiations,
Dave Baildings
You Yort, Ee York.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.90)
While the Seeretary wiahep you all suesess in your
project, he deee not feel warranted in authorising the
use of his name in support of a private enterprise.
simeerely yours,
Harry A. MeBride,
Assistant to the Beeretary.
A true copy of
the
W11
FE:WT/DLY
FE
8
7-11-36
Ci
mre.
uaV
u

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
United Press Associations
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCORPORATED IN NEW YORK
R:
GENERAL OFFICES
1936 JUL 14 PM 12 54
NEWS BUILDING NEW YORK CITY
JUL 1:1936
894.40634
DIVISION OF
OFFICE OF THE SECKCIARY
July 13, 1936.
COMMUNICATIONS
AND REOORDS
Harry . McBride, esa
Department of State,
JUV 1 6 1936
Washington, D. C.
BASEBALL/13
My dear Mr. MoBride:
May I not be permitted to acknowleage with appreciatlon your
letter of July ll, concerning my efforts to organize the National League
of Japan purely as one means very ably to improve our already friendly
relations with the Japanese people?
It is naturally with keen regret that I learn that the Secre-
tary feels - as Mr. Henry L.Stims on did in 1931 - that this would be only
a "private enterprise," for I have been utterly convinced for a decade now
of its possibilities as a harbinger of good will and peace in the Paoific
which we all aesire to promo te to the end that it may be permanent. Never-
theless, I do appreciate the Secretary's interest and "off the record" good
11936
wise at any time.
yours, most sipegrely
Henry P. Mhizelnty
Henry (F. Misselwitz.
口
