894.6463 Engineering., Power., Japan, Electric., April 7, 1932 - August 24, 1938 (File 1042)
ID: 894.6463-1042   Pages: 132   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6463-engineering-power-japan-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6463/18
SEE
894.50/65
FOR Tel. # 107, 4 pm
(Section J)
FROM ....Japan
(Neville) DATED April 7. 1932.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Electric industry in Japan will probably
be able to meet its obligations only
by reducing dividends.
8
hs

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
REP
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
TOKYO
fore being communicated
to anyone.
Dated April 7, 1932
Rec'd 8:55 a. m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
107, Apri1 7, 4 p. m.
SECTION J - ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER
This industry is of importance internationally only
on account of foreign loans. The Commercial Attache gives
the total paid up capital as 3,000,0○0,000 yen, of which
about 1,300,000,000 represents strictly electric light
and power concerns as distinguished from electric
railway and like concerns which may sell light and
power. There are five concerns, Tokyo Electric Light,
Daido, Toho, Ujikawa and Nippon having foreign loans
whose paid up capital amounts to 900,000,000 yen. These
companies have foreign loans amountin to about 340,000,000
yen with interest charges of over 21,000,000 yen. At
present exchange about one-third must be added to the
total as most of the loans were made on a gold basis.
The Taiwan Power Company "Formosa" has foreign loans of
45,700,000 yen with annual charges of 3,350,000 yen.
It'is ostimated that these companies will be able
to meet their obli,ations but only by reducing dividends.
Power sales are reported increased and more cooperation
is said to be evident in operation. Lower rates and in-
creased fuel costs are stated to account for lower income.
NEVILLE
WSB - HPD

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
.September 23, 1936.
a fine vis/
Tokyo's No. 2028 of September 4,
1936.
This despatch recounts the controversy
in the Japanese Cabinet over the proposal
of the Minister for Communications,
Mr. Tanomogi, for the state operation of the
olectric power industry. Because of the
considerable American Investment in the
Japanese electric power industry the
proposed control by the state is of some
interest.
The proposal which appears to be part
of the program of economic reform resulting
from the February 26 incident, is supported
by the army and other elements favoring a
system akin to state socialism. It is
opposed by the electric power interests, and
by the Minister for Finance who considers
that the expense to the state involved in
the scheme would be prohibitive. The Embassy
comments "It is of course impossible to
predict what the outcome will be, but the
question involves such serious issues,
political as well as economic and
social, that the future development of the
situation will be watched with interest ...
The outcome should provide an important
gauge

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
gauge of the relative strength of the
forces favoring socialization of industry
and those opposed to it."
894.6463/19
WT
FE:WTTVDLY

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
73172
OFFRE OF EOMMNG NOVISER
THE FOREIGN SERVICI
OCT 6 1936
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA DEPARTMEMI OF STATE
No. 2028.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 4, 1936.
8946463
SUBJECT: RCPCSED STATE CCNTRCL CF ELECTRICAL IIIDUSTRIES.
894.6468
RECORDING DISK
FILE WHB
13
Ccurn ace -7 fo.
10
6
MD
ECC
NOT FOR
 F∈(381)
Livision of
FAR EASTERN ASFAIRS
The Honorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
ashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to inform the Department that the
7-1936
FILED
question of strengthening state control over the elec-
tricity supply industry, which was included in a list of
seven projects announced as having been decided upon for
carrying out by the Cabinet at its session of August 25,
appears to have become a foremost issue in domestic poli-
tics.
According to the latest figures available, those for
1933*, electric power enterprises in Japan represent a
capital
* FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANNUAL OF JAPAN, 1935.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
capital investment of Yen 5,194,702,480. The total
amount of current developed was nearly five million
kilowatts of which 63 per cent was hydroelectric and
37 per cent thermal. Current was supplied to 11,383,235
customers for lighting besides 3,255,736 kw. for power
to a great variety of industries. Of the 6l3 enter-
prises engaged in supplying electric current there are
five of outstanding importance. These companies with
their paid-in-capital and bonded ind btedness are as
follows*
Name
Paid in
Bonded
Capital
Indebtedness
Yen
Yen
Tokyo Electric Light
429,562,C00
369,434,(00
Nihon Electric Power
120,955,000
88,182,000
Toho Electric Power
13C,000,000
123,644,000
Daido Electric
130,973,C00
100,438,000
Ujikawa Electric iower
92,500,000
86,494,000
During the years 1924-28 these companies floated
a number of external loans, of which the amounts out-
standing at the end of 1935 were $97,486,000 and
£4,013,716. There is also dutstanding 22,406,000
on a loan floated by the Taiwan Electric Fower Company.
1/
A statement is enclosed showing details of these loans.
It will thus be seen that the question of the future
status of the electric power industry is of material
concern to American and British financial interests.
The Minister of Communications, Mr. Tanomogi, at
a Cabinet meeting on July 3, brought up for consideration
a proposal for the state operation of the electric power
industry
* JAPAN YEAR BOOK, 1935.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
industry. According to the NICHI NICHI he did not go into
details regarding the methods of compensating the com-
panies and of disposing of their internal and external
bonded debt but emphasized the need of state operation of
the generation and transmission of electric current as a
means of cheapening its price. He dwelt upon the fact
that electricity constituted nearly ninety per cent of
the motive power in industry besides being almost uni-
versally used by the public for lighting, so that it was
thus of primary importance in connection with national
defense. He thought that national operation would also
serve to bring down the price of artificial fertilisers,
an important by-product of the electric industry, and thus
reduce agrarian unrest.
The Minister of Communications, who apparently con-
templated state operation only of the generation and
transmission of current, is reported to have offered
alternative plans all of which would have left the owner-
ship of plants and equipment in private hands, thus ob-
viating large capital outlays by the government in con-
nection with nationalization. One of the suggestions was
the formation of a special company, in which the existing
companies would participate by receiving shares pro-
portionate to the value of plants and equipment contributed.
Another suggestion was that the Government pay the existing
companies rental on their equipment.
Mr. Tanomogi's plan for "private ownership and state
operation" was supported by the army and other elements
favoring a system akin to state socialism. It was opposed
by the electric power interests and financial and business
circles on the ground that it would not, as claimed, result
in

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
in a reduction of rate charges to the general public
unless the government made up financial losses from some
other source, which would in the end come out of the
people.
Owing to the conflict which arose in the Cabinet
over the proposal for state control, it has so far been
impossible to agree upon any concrete plan beyond the
proposition decided upon, that something should be done,
which was expressed in the formula "strengthening state
control" announced after the Cabinet meeting of August 25.
Subsequently, however, a roup came out with the advocacy
of "state ownership and state operation". This group
had e its spokesman in the C inet the inister of
Commerce and Industry. It made the point that the
state was not warranted in using its  uthority to invade
private rights and that the opposition in business circles
to the Government's taking over the operation of the
electric power industry without compensation to private
interests was so strong that the Linister of Communications'
plan was not likely to pass the Diet. It was therefore
suggested that if the Government took over also the owner-
ship of electrical enterprises there would be less likeli-
hood of serious opposition, and that if the financial
difficulty could be once overcome the plan could be re-
conciled with that of the Minister of Communications and
a political crisis averted. According to the vernacular
press, this latter proposal gained many adherents not
only among members of both political parties but also
in army circles.
NO

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
No sooner did this proposal come out, however,
when the Minister of Finance, Mr. Baba, interviewed
by the press, declared his flat opposition on the ground
that it would necessitate the floatation of a large
amount of national bonds for the purchase of private
plants and at least Yen 100,000,000 annually in addition
for the extension of facilities.
This is where the matter rests at present. The JAPAN
TIMES says that "the issue will have to be fought out to
some sort of a conclusion, for both l.r. Tanomogi and his
supporters, as well as the growing opposition to him,
have committed themselves so far that there can be no
honorable retreat". Commenting on the probable outcome
of efforts on the part of iremier irota to bring about a
compromise, the journal notes that I.r. Tanomogi hes the
powerful support of the military and others who consider
that the advantages of state control from a point of
view of national defense outweigh purely economic con-
siderations. Their position is rendered stronger by the
relatively high rates charged for electric current in
Japan, but
this would appear to be due primarily to
over capitalization and to the fact that the industry's
heavy bonded indebtedness in foreign currencies was incurred
when the exchange velue of the yen was so much higher
than now.
The ASAHI observes that even under the Nazi dietator-
ship the question of nationalizing the electric industry
has not been taken up, and hopes, since the Government is
trying to meet the national demand for the stabilization
of

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
of the people's livelihood, that it will confine its
aims to socialising industrial power through technical
rationalization of the generation and transmission of
7
industry and to bettering labor conditions of those
engaged in the industry.
The Minister of Railways is uoted in the press as
saying that a definite decision on this question may be
expected some time before the holding of the grand manoeu-
vres in November. It is of course impossible to predict
what the outcome will be, but the question involves such
serious issues, political as well as economic and social,
that the future development of the situation will be
watched with interest. Among these issues is that of state
socialism, an ideal towards which there has been a strong
drift since the army came into power in 1931. The out-
come should provide an important gauge of the relative
strength of the forces fevoring socialization of industry
and those opposed to it. It is not to be doubted, how-
ever, that efforts will be made by the Premier and other
members of the Cabinet to work out an acceptable com-
promise between the opposing groups in order to prevent
a serious split arising in the Government.
Respectfully yours,
Slarii
Enclosure:
Edwin L. Nevillo
1. Statement.
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
864.
JWB:r

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. I
despatch No.2028 of Se
4,1936 from Tokyo Embas
EXTERNAL LOANS OF JAPANESE ELECTRIC POVER COMPANIES
(As of December 31, 1935)
Company
Amount of
Year
Amount Cut-
Interest
Year
Under-
Issue
standing
Maturity
writers
Nihon
$9,000,000
1928
6,957,000
6.5
1953
Harris,Forbes
Daido
15,000,000
1924
7,797,000
7.0
1944
Dillon,Read
do. 13,500,000
1925
7,678,000
6.5
1950
do.
Toho
15,000,000
1925
3,959,500
7.0
1955 (Guaranty Co.d
(N.Y.
(Lee, Higginson
(Harris,Forbes
Tokyo 70,C00,000
1928 57,996,000
6.0
1953 Guaranty Co.
of N.Y.
do.
7,65C,000
19276,C3C,0CO
6.5
1952 Dillon,Read
Ujigawa 14,000,000
1925
6,969,500
7.0
1945 Lee,Higginson
Toho
王
300,000
1925 王
176,466
5.C
1945 Frudential
Assurance
Tokyo 王 4,500,000
1928 ± 3,837,250
6.C
1953 Lazard Bros.
Colonial
(J.P. Morgan
(Kuhn, Loeb
Taiwan 22,800,000
193122,406,000
5.5
1971 (National City
(First National
(Bank of N.Y.
(Yokohama Spe-
(cie Bank

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 7, 1936
Mr. Ballantine has written an interest-
ing report supplementing an earlier report
on the same subject, in regard to a plan
for the nationalization of the electric power
industry in Japan which is sponsored largely
by the army in the interest of national
defense.
At first the advocates of nationalization
demanded out and out state ovmership of the
industry, but financial considerations won
them over to the plan of the Minister of
Communications, which was embodied in the
formula "private ownership state operation".
According to the press the Cabinet has approved
"in principle" this plan, and negotiations
are proceeding with a view toward arranging
details. Decision will probably not be
reaohed before November.
As pointed out in Mr. Ballantine's
previous report, the chief interest in
this controversy, from the American stand-
point, grows out of the fact that much of
the capital invested in the electric power
industry is American. Further, this contro-
versy is of interest as it represents the
first effort of the army to put into effeot
its ideas in regard to nationalization of
essential industries.
WT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
⑥cloter 7,1936.
Ih is particularly to be noled
tah the plan for slate coubrol of
the electrie powter industry is
but one item in a uridor plogram
for further" an teoualization" of
Y
foreign b.cdle.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
73833
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
FE OF ERIC ASER
OF THE
OCT 15 1936S
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMCHI OF STATE
No. 2045.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 18, 1936.
SUBJECT: PROPOSED STATE CONTROL OF ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRY.
894.6460
Cecumene
SNO
EBC
5
936
DEPARTMENT OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
1(381)
Livialon ot
894.6463/20
OF STATL
16-1936
artment of Stare
The Honorable
--The-Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I haye the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
19
No. 2028/of September 4, 1936, regarding the proposed
nationalization of the electric power industry, and to
FILED
submit the following supplementary report on the subject
1
In the early part of September the problem of
1936
reconciling conflicting views on this subject appeared
to
F/FG

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
to be a serious one. Financial and big business in-
terests in general, especially the electric power com-
panies themselves, opposed nationalization altogether
although willing to accept a larger measure of govern-
ment regulation in the interests of rationalization
and unification of the industry. Among those groups
favoring nationalization, the army and navy emphasized
its national defense value while others seemed to regard
socialization of industries as a panacea for all the
economic and social ills of the country. There were
those who preferred out and out state ownership of the
industry, but as it became apparent that there were
unsurmountable financial difficulties in the way, all
elements in favor of some sort of nationalization
gradually were won over to the plan of the Minister of
Communications, which was embodied in the formula
"private ownership state operation". By no means was
this plan regarded as an ideal arrangement but merely
as the one open to the least objections.
The essential details of the Department of Communi-
cations' plan are set forth in the outline drafts of
two laws made public in an informal announcement of the
Department of Communications on September 15. One may
be described as the enabling act and the other is the
organic act of the Nippon Denryoku Setsubi Kabushiki
Kaisha (Japan Electric Power Facilities Company, Ltd.).
The first law as drafted provides that the state shall
operate

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
-3
operate, with certain unimportant exceptions, the genera-
tion and transmission of electric current, using therefor
the facilities of the company above mentioned, and shall
fix by orders the rates for current. An Electric Power
Investigation Commission would be created as an advisory
organ in relation to the business plans of the company,
rates for current, and other important matters.
The draft of the law of the Japan Electric Power
Facilities Company contemplates that all of the electric
facilities required by the Government for the supply and
transmission of current now owned by private interests
are to be taken over by the company, the private in-
terests receiving shares therein to the velue of the
facilities taken over. In other words, the Government
would rent from the company its generating and trans-
mission equipment and in so far as the owmership of
this equipment is concerned the company would represent
a compulsory pooling of the equipment now owned by
several hundred large and small concerns. The Govern-
ment may also transfer to the company state-owned
equipment as a Government investment in the company.
There is provision for an Electric Power Industry Ap-
praisal Commission to determine the value of the
facilities and equipment to be transferred under the
law. The draft law also contains various provisions
relating to state supervision of the business of the
company, privileges to be granted the company in con-
nection with the issue of debentures, exemption from
certain

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
certain taxes and the application of rights of expro-
priation of property necessary in connection with the
extension and maintenance of facilities. There are
provisions also for the payment by the Government to
the company for the use of its facilities as well as
provisions for minimum dividends to be guaranteed by
the Government.
On September 7, the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce
held a meeting at which its determined opposition to
the proposed power control plan was declared. At a
joint conference of the industry and transportation
committees a memorial was drawn up to be presented to
the members of the Cabinet which was to the effect that
although the Chamber was cognizant of the public nature
of this major industry, rendering proper state control
necessary, it was felt the proposed plan was bound to
create serious changes in the conception of private
property and that it would raise suspicion among economic
circles regarding the future policy of the Government
and discourage industrial enterprise. Confidence was
expressed however that the objects of the Government's
plan could be adeguately realized by promoting rationali-
zation, by amalgamating existing enterprises and by more
intensive control through a revision of the electric
industry law and improvement of its operation. In con-
clusion it was pointed out that any major national policy
of such important a nature should be given the utmost
consideration since final decision by fiat of the
Government

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Government was fraught with evils and dangers and it
was therefore hoped that the Government by inviting
opinions from all quarters would dispose of this vital
problem in a way satisfactory to all concerned.
Discussions on this subject took place at about
the same time between representatives of the War and
Navy Departments which had from the first been strong
supporters of state control of the industry. The ASAHI'S
version of the War Department's attitude on this matter
may be summed up as follows: it is most important from
the poit of view of national defense to provide in
peace time against the marked increase in the war-time
demand for electric power which is estimated at from
20 to 30 times the peace-time demand. Expansion of
armaments and the replenishment of war material are
useless for war purposes unless the capacity to produce
munitions keeps pace with these increases. The natural
increase of electric consumption has averaged about
300,O00 kilowatts only per annum so that under capital-
istic operation the future increase in the production
of electricity is sufficient only to take care of peace-
time needs for the next eight years. The army there-
fore cannot be satisfied with such development when the
enormous requirements for the development of war in-
dustries for the future are considered and therefore
insists upon the nationalization of the industry.
Emphasis was also placed upon the need of unifying the
electric supply, an essential point especially in
connection

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-
connection with air attacks, upon the particular need
of developing hydraulic generation in preference to
caloric generation in view of the fuel supply situation
in Japan, upon the importance of developing electro-
chemical industries for war-time requirements, and upon
making provision for protecting electric generating and
transmission plants and equipment from danger of attack
in war time.
According to the press, recognition in principle
of the Communications Minister's program for the state
management of electric power industries has already been
reached by the members of the Cabinet chiefly concerned.
Conversations are reported to be still going on between
the Finance Minister, the Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry and the Minister of Railways on means of minimizing
friction with the interests affected by the measure and
in regard to specific details of the plan. The view is
expressed in Government circles that no final decision
will be reached before the army maneuvers in November as
there still is much study to be given to the question.
It is also reported that the previous opposition of the
Minseito Party to the scheme is weakening and to a
lesser extent in the Seiyukai Party. There also appears
to be strong opposition in the Upper House where it is
urged that the licensing system provided for under the
plan should be tried out first and then if this does not
serve to lower rates, there will still be time to effect
state management. On the whole it would appear that the
controversy

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.95)
-7-
controversy in domestic politics over this plan has
passed the point of highest tension and political
interest is shifting to the tax revision plan which
also has serious political and financial bearings.
Respectfully yours,
N.Dukm
Erle R. Dickover,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
JWB:a
864

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 5, 1936.
4
This despatoh by Mr. Crocker in Tokyo
reports that the question of nationaliza-
tion of the electric power industry in
Japan, as demanded by the military, shows
signs of developing into a major political
issue.
The controversy developed first within
the Cabinet, where there is division of
opinion, and secondly between the govern-
ment and the power companies who view the
nationalization proposal as an attack on
their rights.
It appears that the military authori-
ties, who are the originators of the pro-
posal, are incurring the resentment of
industrial leaders. An advertisement in-
serted in the NICHI NICHI, apparently by
interested parties, accuses the military of
attacking the industrial system of Japan or
of seeking to establish a species of
fascism or state socialism.
The Embassy considers it likely that
some form of compromise plan will eventually
be settled upon.
894.6463/21
WT/ADLY

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
75857
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894.6463
Tokyo, Ootober 15, 1936.
No. 2083.
SUBJECT:
ATIONALIZATION OF THE ELECT ICAL POWER
INDUSTRY.
CC
bn
C
attribution
40r
NOV
SasiD
136131
1o m FE(381)
894.6463/21
COPIES SH
Divisionof
O.N.1. ANDM.1.J.
NOV2-1936
The Honorable
Department of State
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
19
With reference to the Embassy's despatches Nos. 2028
RECORDING DESK
FILE - WHB
20
and 2045/of September 4 and 18, 1936, relating to the
proposed nationalization of the electrical power industry,
I have the honor to report that progress toward an agree-
211
ment as to the nature of the plan of control to be adopted
is gradually being made, but not without difficulties.
ince discussion of the matter first arose there has been
1936
FILED
danger of its developing into a first class political is-
sue and the Cabinet has been making every effort to effect
a compromise plan in order that this danger might be avoided.
It
F/FG

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
It will be recalled that within the Cabinet itself
there has been division between those favoring the plan
of "private ownership and state operation" supported by
the Minister of Communications, Mr. Tanomogi, and the
"state ownership and state operation" plan favored by
the Minister of Commerce and Industry, r. Ogawa. The
Finance Minister, Mr. Baba, had interposed objections to
the latter plan on the grounds that the large loans neces-
sary for the purchase of the properties involved plus the
C..E.
estimated one hundred million yen annually for the "ex-
tension of facilities" would be too great a burden on
the country's finances. The Railway Minister, Mr. Maeda,
on the other hand, has been sceptical of the practicability
of the "private ownership-state operation" plan from the
legal standpoint.
Seizing the opportunity during the past three or four
weeks when the country's attention has been largely diverted
by the recent occurrences in China and the army maneuvers
held in the Hokkaido, an effort has been made, chiefly with
the mediation of Mr. Maeda, the Minister of Railways, to
devise some sort of compromise plan which would satisfy the
Cabinet. Some progress in this direction appears to have
been made, the main feature of which is reported to be a
plan under which the existing power companies would be com-
pelled to contribute their facilities to the proposed
Government controlled Japan Electric Power Facilities Com-
pany, these facilities to be paid for by the Company or
the

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
the Government by floating bond issues to be offered to
the publio.
Little assistance has been rendered, however, by
the military members of the Cabinet who are indifferent
to the method adopted as long as the electric power in-
dustry is placed under state control as rapidly as pos-
sible.
The difficulties of the Cabinet in coping with this
question were also increased when on October 8, at a meeting
of the Minseito at Osaka, the party's President, Mr. Machida
voiced the party's opposition to any form of control plan
although he indicated that the "state ownership-state opera-
tion" plan was the lesser of two evils. By this action the
Cabinet was brought to the realization that the Government
would be forced to meet the opposition of the political
parties when the measure, in any form, is finally laid be-
fore the Diet. Concerned by Mr. Machida's attack, the
Minister of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Ogawa, who represents
the Minseito in the Cabinet, immediately isrued a concilia-
tory statement to the effect that "the attitude of the Min-
seito in connection with the power question has been clari-
fied by Mr. Machida's speech" and that "as the Government
must also seek the views of the Railways Minister a con-
ference will be held as soon as he returns to Tokyo".
In addition to these difficulties within the Cabinet
opposition from the industries themselves and other economio
and financial interests unwilling to countenance this major
excursion

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
excursion into the realm of state socialiam is finally
crystallizing into more effective form. On October 13
a half page advertisement, whose authorship is uncertain
but obviously inspired by interested parties, appeared
in the TOKYO NICHI NICHI, a summary translation of which
1/
is appended hereto, criticising the military authorities,
and especially the Minister of War, General Terauchi, for
his interference in the Government's attempt to devise an
T.,Jua
acceptable power control plan by pressing for an imaediate
realization of any system of control, irrespective of its
merits. The advertisement even goes further to characterize
the attitude of the military as an attack upon the indus-
trial system of Japan and a species of fascism.
More constructive is the objection voiced by Baron
Seinosuke Goh, chairman of the board of directors of the
Tokyo Electric Light Company and president of both the Japan
Economic Federation and the All-Japan Chamber of Commerce
and Industry who, on October 13, put forward a proposal that
the "Big Five" power companies (the Tokyo Electric Light Com-
pany; the Toho Electric Power Company; the Ujigawa Electric
Power Company; the Daido Electric Power Company; and the
Nippon Company) form a voluntary amalgamation to forestall
the Government's proposed control plan. His scheme, accord-
ing to the press, involves the following four points:
1. The merger of the "Big Five" companies ought
to be effected voluntarily, but, if this is
considered improper, it would be better for
the Government to enact a special law forc-
ing them to merge, as was the case in the
establishment of the Japan Iron Manufacturing
Company.
2.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
2. Unification of power generation, trans-
mission and distribution shall be realized
as the result of the merger.
3. A liberal supply of cheap power is attain-
able at any time. Equipment necessary to
dispose of surplus power, which is the main
point of the Communications Ministry's con-
trol plan, can also be provided by the mer-
ger.
4. If more intense Government supervision 1s
necessary, supervising officials can be
sent to the company.
At this meeting, which was attended by representatives
of the above mentioned power companies as well as by Mr.
Toyotaro Yuki, President of the Industrial Bank of Japan,
representing the syndicate banks, the opinion was advanced
that the Government's present plan of control had no hope of
passing at the next Diet session; concern was also expressed
that if the present plan should, however, be adopted other
industries in the country would later share the same fate.
There was also discussion of the possibility of the establish-
ment by the power ccmpanies of a large steam or water power
plant capable of generating 500,000 kilowatts to meet the
military desire for reserve power, but nothing was decided.
It is impossible at this stage to foresee what the
fate of the power control plan will be but it appears likely
that the Cabinet will effect some sort of compromise plan
and that it will be submitted at the next session of the
Diet. The industries will probably continue to marshal
their forces in opposition and, possibly with the backing
of the political parties the Government will find itself
faoed

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
faced with another major political issue, fraught with
as many dangers and difficulties as the present adminis-
trative reform issue.*
Respectfully yours,
E.R.Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
1/ Summary translation of article in
TOKYO NICHI NICHI dated October 13, 1936.
864.
ESC:g
*Embassy's despatch No. 2087, October 16, 1936.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 2083 of October 15, 1936, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
NICHI NICHI, October 13, 1936.
The Military Authorities and the
Electric Power Control Question.
The Attitude of the Military Au-
thorities is Unwarrantable.
(1) The Department of Comaunications plans to
place the electric power industry under the State control
for two reasons, namely (1) for the benefit of domestic
industries and (2) for the necessity of national defense.
This question has close relations with Ministers of Com-
munications, Agriculture and Forestry, Comaerce and In-
dustry, Army and Navy. Strange to say, the Army authori-
ties alone strongly support the plan of the Department of
Communications, while the other four Ministers of State as-
sume a rather ncgative attitude.
(1)
) War Minister Terauchi may advance any proposal
or suggestion to the Government for the improvement of ad-
ministration but the War Minister seems to be only eager
for the immediate realization of the plan, no matter what
system may be adopted for the State control of the electric
power industry. Such an attitude of the War Minister is
not fair and reasonable.
(3) Premier Hirota is now causing Ministers of Com-
munications, Commerce and Industry, Railways, and Finance
to study the merits and demerits of the plan. In spite
of this fact, War Minister Terauchi assumes an attitude
of

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
of wishing to accelerate the realization of the plan as
quickly as possible. This means that the War Minister
ignores the four Ministers whe are now studying the power
control question and that no unity exists among the Cabi-
net inisters.
(4) The present plan to convert the electric power
industry into the ownership of private individuals or com-
panies and to place it under the Government control is
quite unprecedented in this country. Mr. Tanomogi, Minis-
ter of Communications, and t e Military authorities alike
are most anxious to have the plan realized as quickly as
possible, without taking into consideration the question
as to whether the plan wil! be detrimental to the interests
of the people. Naturally the people are uneasy as to the
future of the electric power industry.
(5) Because of the peculiar attitude of the Military
authorities in dealing with the power control question as
above stated, it is only natural that various classes of
the people are uneasy lest they may be deprived of their
business by the Military authorities at any moment.
(6) If the Military authorities think it necessary to
bring pressure to bear upon the domestic industrial world
with a view to rectifying abuses in connection with the
economio activity of the so-called capitalism of Japan to-
day, availing themselves of the issue of the present elec-
. trio power control question, no one may raise any valid
objeotion.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
objection. But it is generally feared that the hasty
attitude of the Military authorities may cause commercial,
industrial and other circles to entertain anxiety as to
the future of their business operations and thereby bring
about a collapse in the industrial world which is now in
the ascendency. This is a point worthy of attention on
the part of the Military authorities.
(7) Japan's industries have attained a marvelous de-
velopment within a short period. This has been due to the
spirit of the national organization of the Empire of Japan
which is unparalleled the world over.
(8) The Iailitary authorities stand on the basis of the
"King's Way". Nevertheless, the Military authorities are
most eager to place the electric power industry under the
State control - a system which is adopted in European
countries. The attitude of the Military authorities in
favor of the adoption of a European system is quite con-
tradictory to the "King's Way".
(9) Opposition has already been raised by influential
persons in economic and industrial circles against the plan
above mentioned. The Military authorities say that their
attitude in favor of the plan is not based on Fascism. But
the Japanese people regard the Military authorities' atti-
tude as nothing but Fasoism.
(10) In settling the present power question, it is
desirable that the Military authorities reconsider their at-
titude and fully exchange views with other Departments of
State

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
State concerned so as to reach a conclusion satisfactory
to all. War Minister Terauchi should consider this point.
By the way it may be stated that the recent proposal
of the Military authorities to re-organize various systems
of the present Administration is as unwarrantable as their
attitude to accelerate the plan of the Communications De-
partment to place the electric power industry under State
control.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 25, 1936.
Tokyo reports further in regard to
the proposal to nationalize the electric
power industries.
Agreement among the ministers of state
concerned has been reached "in principle"
with the adoption of certain amendments
to the original proposals. Despite these
amendments, the plan is still based on the
doctrine of "private-ownership and state
operation", and will tlerefore be onposed
by the power interests, whose view is that
the entire scheme is an unwarranted
excursion into the realm of state socialism.
The plan will probably be laid before
the Diet early next year.
894.6463/22
FE:WTT/DLY

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
10547
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2109.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, October 29, 1936.
894.6463
SUBJECT: PROPOSED STATE CONTROL OF ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRIES.
Camriurce-not
U
894.6463/22
24
f
OFFICE OF FAMMSE
DEC 2 1936
DEPARTMCHI Uf STATE
The Honorable
Til
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
FILED
45
No. 2083/of October 15, 1936, relating to the proposed
1936
state control looking toward the nationalization of the
electrio power industries, and to report that at a con-
ference on October 19, 1936, an agreement was reached
acceptable to Communlcations Minister Mr. Tanomogi,
whose "private-ownership state-operation" plan formed
the basis of the latest compromise. The following five
points
F/G

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
points of agreement were adopted by the Minister of
Finance Mr. Baba, the Minister of Commeroe and In-
Marda,
dustry Mr. Ogawa, and the Minister of Railways Mr.
Maeda, who submitted them to Mr. Tanomogi and obtained
his approval thereto:
1. That within a limited period of years, and at
the request of the shareholders, the proposed Electrio
Power Facilities Company shall be required to buy in the
shares at par either by means of floating loans or is-
suing debentures.
2. That funds placed in a special account of the
Facilities Company derived from loans or surplus shall
be used to open the way for the purchase of shares in
the Company.
3. That representatives of the private companies
shall be included in the appraisal committee to be es-
tablished to determine the value of the power facilities
invested in the Company.
4. That authorities on the electric power industry
shall participate in the management of the enterprise.
5. That the name of the project of law is to be
changed so as to read in translation "Electric Power
State Management Bill*.
These emendments were submitted to the Cabinet on
Ootober 20 and the draft was approved "in principle".
After further refinements and approval by the Legislative
Bureau, the final draft in legal form will be presented
to the Cabinet for adoption, and it is expected that it
will then be laid before the Diet after the New Year
Holidays.
An

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
An examination of the amendments will reveal the
efforts made to appeal to those interests which op-
posed the "private-ownership state-operation" plan in
its original form. While the first amendment compels
the private industries to invest their power facili-
ties in the pro osed Ja an Electric Power Facilities
Company, it provides for the re-purchase from private
owners by the Company of its owm shares. By this
method, in theory at least, the Goveriment could gra-
dually acquire the power facilities of the private in-
dustries but as it will be effected through the device
of redeeming its ovm stocks the face of the Communica-
tions Minister Mr. Tanomogi will be saved and the ob-
jections of the interests which stood out for state
ownership will be removed to a large degree. The second
amendment merely provides the means for the purchase
of these shares.
The third and fourth amendments are, of course,
thrown in as a sop to the industries but it is doubtful
whether they will go far toward alleviating the objec-
tions held in industrial circles because of their reali-
zation that representation either on the Appraisal Com-
mittee or in the management of the new Company will be
meaningless in the face of Government bureaucracy. And
the fifth amendment is recognized as being merely a
change in the wording of law which in no way alters its
fundamental purpose.
It is, however, all too clear that the underlying
theory of the project despite the alterations still
rosts

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
rests upon the original dootrine propounded by Mr.
Tanomogi, i.e., that of "private-ownership and state-
operation" and this fact has not escaped the electrio
power interests and other industrialists whose oppo-
sition to the plan as a whole remains firm and un-
changed, it being their view that the entire soheme is
basically unsound and constitutes an unwarranted ex-
cursion into the realm of State Socialism. The reported
intention of the Government to apply the plan, at least
at first, only in the Kyushu, Shikoku, and Hokkaido
areas has in no way diverted the power interests on the
main island from their firm attitude and they have an-
nounced their intention of joining forces vith the in-
terests in Kyushu, Shikoku and Hokkaido in opposing the
soheme.
Nevertheless the Government feels that its slowly
gaining ground as the opposition is by no means united
or agreed upon substitute measures. The plan offered
by Baron Goh, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Tokyo Electric Light Company, and President of the Japan
Chamber of Commerce, mentioned in the Embassy's despatch
under reference, has met with objection especially on
the part of the Electric Association of Japan and the
Federation of Power Companies. These bodies feel that
not only would the proposed amalgamation of the "Big
Five" power companies fail to satisfy the Government,
and in this case they have in mind particularly the
military authorities, but that it is doubtful whether
1t

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
it would mean cheaper power rates. The Eleotrio Asso-
ciation is reported to be working on its own substitute
plan.
Furthermore, there are indications that the Minseito
is moderating its objections and is inclining toward
support of the compromise plan. The party has estab-
lished its own special incuiry committee which is expected
to report on the matter before the Diet meets.
However, at the present time it anpears that there
will be vigorous opposition to the Bill in the Lower
House and that the House of Peers considers the entire
project an unwelcome issue and hopes it may be disposed
of before reaching the Upper House.
Respectfully yours,
E.R. Dickover
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
864.
ESC:r

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
793.94/11889
SEE
FORTel#.4pm
FROM
Tsingtao
(Sokobin) DATED
Dec 29. 1937
TO
NAME
1-1197
OPO
894.646323
Sino-Japanese conflict:-Tsingtao area.
REGARDING:
Sino-Japanese owned electric light and power sub-station,
completed in May, to be destroyed tonight by Chinese author-
ities. The old power plant to continue to function.
FRG.
F/MR
3

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.88)
JR
GRAY
Tsingtao via N. R.
NOTE
DatEd DEcEmber 29, 1937
hEc'd 9:0! .m.,30th.
SEertf StalE,
vushington.
Dectmber 25, 4 n.m.
The C mnlute in infermed by a reliublE soureE that
thE Chinrnt  uthoritits wil! ltntrey tonight thE Sino-
JananEstowrt ElEc ric ri ht nd power substation which
wis comnleted i May, WE believt at a cost United States
gold dollrs o,. The ol power plant it is stated
will continug te fretio.
Sert t iiping, now.
SCKCFIN
RR:HPD

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
7eb.28-1438
Yun well frrob ably Uish to
read the whole of the buief
desputch in view of the
interest manifeslad in the questión.
Within the hast tivs or Itree yoars.
Harmeaar, the Ua tioualgalion iof
the electric Pawer endustry
seama to be no longer the hat
pah tical rsane if once wos. Much
hus hatponed sance the legeslation
was finst introduced.
Jng

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.91)
4514
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ET
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 4, 1938.
No. 2762.
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED NATICNALIZATI N OF TIE ELECTRIC POWER
INDUSTRY.
amli to 
Cong NAR 3193
894.1463
GC
2
EQC
894.6463/24
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
938 FE0
16
A.
DES
DET
C.D..
m
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
MAR 7 - 1938
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor torefer to previous despatches
relating to the nationalization of electric power in Japan
and to report that draft legislation was introduced into
the present session of the Diet on January 24, 1938, which
provides for state control of the eleotric power industry.
F/M
The

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The legislation consists of three parts: (1) an
•leotric power control law placing the generation and
transmission of electric power under the control of the
Government and providing for an electric power development
company into which the existing power companies will be
merged; (2) a law defining the character of the proposed
Japan Electric Development Company; (3) a law amending the
present eleotrical industry law.
The new legislation is in effect the private-ownership
state-operation plan sponsored by Communication Minister
Tanomogi in 1936, an outline of which was given in this
Embassy's despatch No. 2l09 of October 29, 1936, and which
was introduced into the Diet in l937 but rejected at that
time. A fourth part of the proposed legislation dealing
with the disposition of foreign debentures is being worked
out in the Ministry of Finance at the present time and is
oxpected to be introduced shortly. As in the Tanomogi
plan the existing power companies are to be required to
invest their power facilities in the Japan Electric Power
Development Company. The proposed legislation also calls
for, as did the original one, the repurchase by the Govern-
ment of the shares of the Japan Electric Power Development
Company.
Debate on the bill has centered on the possibility of
reduced eleotrio power rates rather than the question of
oxpediency or propriety of state control. The Government,
however, has indicated clearly, by the statements of the
Premier and the Cormunications Minister, Mr. Nagai, that
the proposed legislation would be regarded as a political
issuo

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
issue and that every effort would be made to seoure its
passage through the present Diet. Observers were fairly
agreed that the legislation would be enacted into law
with but slight amendments.
The power interests are
basing their opposition on the difficulty of discharging
their foreien obligations under the plan, but their efforts
appear to be unavailing in the face of the Government's
determination to carry through the legislation as a part
of the national emergency.
This legislation is of substential interest to
American investors, b: reason of the fact that the value
of bonds and debentures issued in the United States by
Japanese power companies still owned in the United States
is estimated to be about $164,000,000.
As all the draft bills mentioned above have been
referred to committee a more detailed report will be sub-
mitted when their fate is known.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
864
FAS:C
Y

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 20, 1938.
Reference Tokyo's No.2848, April 1,
1938, entitled "Passage of Electric
Power Bill".
The Electric Power Control Bill was
passed by the Diet on March 28, 1938.
Aocording to the provisions of the bill,
control of the electric power industry
is placed in the hands of the Government
and rates are to be fixed by the Govern-
ment. The present owners of the exist-
ing power companies are to receive shares
in the new company paying 4% interest
guaranteed by the Government. The Gov-
ernment will buy up these shares on de-
mand but may pay for them in the form of
debentures.
Appraisal of the properties of the
existing companies for the purpose of
determining the amount of shares to be
given in the new company is to be done
by a Government commission on the basis
of operations over the past ten years
(1928-1938); it 1s notable that of this
period five of the years were extremely
unprofitable.
The Embassy comments that, with
the exoeption of the railways, Government
operation of industries in Japan has been
conspicuously

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
conspicuously unsuccessful and indi-
cates that the control of the eleotrio
power industry will probably also be
unsuccessful. The Embassy also com-
ments that, although American invest-
ments appear to be safeguarded by the
clause guaranteeing payment by the Gov-
ernment in the form of Government de-
bentures, their value will now corres-
pond to the credit of the Japanese Gov-
ernment abroad; and that while the Japa-
nese Government has never defaulted on
its foreign loans, the present condi-
tion of Japanese finances makes it dif-
ficult to foreoast a bright future.
A conviction exists in Japan that
the passage of the bill represents the
first step of the Government toward
complete socialization of industry.
2
FE:Jones:NN

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
8401
6
THE FOREDEN SERVICE
-PARTOHNHEF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1938 APR 18 PM 1 33
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
No. 2848.
AND RECORDS
Tokyo, April 1, 1938
SUBJECT:
PASSAG . MHOTIC PCYER CC TROL BILL.
OFFICE OF THE AER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECAFFAIRS
APR 2 9 1938
DÉPARTMENT UF STATE
nor om furheglin
Xvision of
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
FAH LASTERN AFFAIRS
DESK
e
RECOR
partuient of State
FiLL - C.B.M.
894.6463/25
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to my despatch no. 2762 of February
4, 1938, regarding the proposed nationalization of the
Japanese electric power industry, I have the honor to
report an Electric Fower Control Bill slightly amended from
the form in which it was originally introduced by the
A 21935
FILED
Government was passed by the Diet on March 20, 1938, and
is expected to be promulgated shortly.
While the official text is not yet available, as
F/A
outlined in the previous despatch, the bill places the
control of the electric power industry in the hands of
the Government by creating a quasi-official company to
be

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
called the Japan Electric Fower Transmission Company.
Power is to be generated and transmitted by this company,
and the rates are to be fixed by the government. The
government is empowered by the bill to compel existing
power companies to place their facilities t the dis-
posal of this company in exchange fcr its shares.
These
shares are to pay four per cent interest, and are guaran-
teed by the government. The government will buy up these
shares on demand, but may pay for them in the form of
debentures.
Appraisal of the prorerties of the existing companies
for the purpose of determining the amount of shares to be
given them in the new company is to be done by a govern-
ment commission on the basis of operation over the past
ten years (1928-1938). It is estimated that the total
value of the properties of the existing companies amounts
to about yen 780,000,000, and that the new company will
have a paid-up capital of about yen 250,000,000.
Debentures may be issued by the new company up to
three times the amount of its paid-up capital. The overn-
ment will not, however, entertain claims for immediate
payment prior to maturity of principal and interest on
debentures of existing companies, notwithstanding changes
which may take place in the value of these debentures as a
result of the creation of the Japan Electric Power Trans-
mission Company.
Several possibilities may be envisaged in the state
control of the electric power industry and its effect on
American investments:
1.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
1. With the exception of the railways, government
operation of industries in Japan has been conspicuously
unsuccessful, and there is no reason to believe that
this will change in the future.
2. The appraisal of the electric power company
properties is to be done over a period of ten years,
five of which were extremely unprofitable.
3. While there is still room for considerable
electric power development in Janan, the point of
diminishing returns is believed to have been already
reached.
4. lthough American investments appear to be
safeguarded by the clause guaranteeing payment by
the government, in the form of government debentures,
their value will now correspond to the credit of the
Japanese government abroad and not to a private
industry.
While it is true that the Japanese
government has never defaulted on its foreign loans,
the present condition of Japanese finances makes it
difficult to forecast a bright future.
In support of these arguments it may be stated that
opposition to the bill finally centered on the appraisal
period, the method of payment for shares, inability of
the government to make a profit with low rates of power,
and the effect the measure would have on Japanese credit
and prestige abroad.
From a political viewpoint the Electric Power Control
Bill was the second most important measure of the current
Diet, its passage threatening dissolution at one time and
finally

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
finally requiring an extension of the session by one day.
The undercurrent of opposition to the bill lay in the con-
viction that the bill represented the first step of the
government toward complete socialization of industry and
that conviction remains with the passage of the bill.
.s the text of the bill is not yet available, the
foregoing comments have been prepared as a preliminary
survey for this pouch, a more detailed analysis being
submitted when the exact contents are known. It is
understood that the bill will vo into effect on pril
1, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1. Clipping, "lectricity state Control Bill Disap-
proved by Matsumoto", TIL JAlAN TIYS, March 20, 1938.
2.
Clipping, "Iower Bill Retains Conpulsion Clause",
THE JAI AN ADVERTILER, March 29, 1938.
3. Clipping, "Fassage of Fower Control Bills", THE
J..PAN TIES, March 29, 1938.
864.
F.S:mg

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. I, to despatch
No. 2848, dated April 1, 1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Sunday, March 20, 1938.
Electricity State Control Bill
Disapproved By Matsumoto
Former Cabinet Member Questions May Points Of
Proposed Measure In House Of Peers
(The following translation is
from a stenographic report of the
speech by Dr. Joji Matsumoto,
delivered in the House of Peers.
on the much-discussed Electric-
ity State Control Bill, as publish-
ed in the Official Gazette.
A former Minister of Com-
merce and Industry, the speaker
is a well-known authority on the
Commercial Law of Japan, being
one of the chief draf'ers of the
new vergion of the Japanese
Commercial Law which is now
before the Diet—Ed.)
The four legislative measures now
before the House for deliberations
are popularly known under the name
of the Electric Power Bill, and I also.
for convenience's sake, shall cal!
them so in my later discussions. As
to this Electric Power Bill. I think
there are many doubts, vlewed either
from the standpoint of policy or
from that of numerical figures. But
as regards these points. I shall now
refrain from asking questions. What
Dr. JOJI MATSUMOTO
I want to ask about are a few points
involving purely legal issues, and
though perhaps in the course of my
Right of Ownership
discussions I may touch somewhat
Sun Tung-po's poem on Chihpei is
on matters relat!ng to policy, I shall
very well known, and I remember
also ask questions about the manner
that in it there are paseages to the
of dealing with foreign loans.
following effect. All things in this
As Your Excellencles and Gentle-
world, according to the poet, have
men are aware, an electric power
their respective owners and nothing
enterprise involves three processes,
belonging to others can be taken
that is, generation, transmission, and
away. Only a cool breeze blowing
distribution. And this Electric
over a river and a bright moon ween
Power Bill provides that, of these
im the mountains cam be freely en-
three, only those covering the trane- joyed by all people. This unmistak-
mission of electricity and the genera- ably indicates the fact that right of
tlon of electricity by coal, which ci- private ownership of indtviduak
vilian electrio power companies at must never be infringed upon. Such
rendered in the form of investment. times in any country. Oaly in an-.
In this manner is the so-called cient or olden times the goverament
Japan Electricity Transmission Com- -or I should rather perhaps my, the
of the Compemy, àe regarde its im- infringe upon private individuals'
portant points, ad indicatad to be all ownerahip righta, by alther optional-
also implied that the work will thus or by taking away one's property
be put under the control of the Gov- and giving it to ampther. But a mo-
erament. This would mean that prac- dern Constitution has placed restria-
tically all the business of the electric tlons on this. The hmperial Cemsti
pewer companies now existent, tution of Japen, under Artiole

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
2
righta. However, in case there oc-
curs an nevitable necessity for the
in connection with
sake of public good. expropriation is
provided, howeer, enly according to
the provisione of the law.
Hitherto what Japan has been do-
the new Company to be created is
Law. According to this proviston.
ing is this. When the State maw the
to give shares-not money-as com-
necessity of operating for itself
pensation for the compulsory invest-
some enterprise, it always gave full
provided that for persons not desir-
ment made, but in this case it i
compensation, for the necessary ex-
propriations made. The nationalisa-
ing to have the shares of "an un-
known company" the Company wil
tlon of Railways is an instance.
take over the shares only tor a period
But as to the present Bill under
of three years. This is of course 
consideration, as has been already
welcome prevision. But here is again
pointed out, the State is to hold con-
another pitfall. It is written "in ac-
trol of practically all the business of
cordance with an Imperial decree."
the electric power companies, thus
Ii the Government officials respon-
fatally menacing the business. The
sible for the application of this Im-
State can exploit the electric power
perial decree should happen to abuse
enterprise at its own discretion and
this mandatory order, they could re-
yet the State need not spend a sen
strict the applications to be filed with
of money for it.
the Company for the latter's accept-
Such in short are believed to be
nce of the shares, it seem clear
the purport of the present Bill under
enough.
consideration. Such legislation in-
The House of Representatives, I
deed must be said epoch-making.
Though I say "epoch-making." such
find, has effected a revision in the
a plan itself, I do not necessarily
under Clause 3 of Articel 9. The
the standard of appraisal referred to
mean to say, is an entirely new in-
standard of appraisal, according to
vention. Such a plan earlier has
the new revision, has been declded
been discussed by a class of Social-
to be fixed directly by law. This
ists. However, the question is whe-
is assuredly a great improvement.
ther or not-such a plan to be car-
Instead of being a great improve-
ried out by the Government will
ment rather, without this step having
prove contrary to the spirit of Ar-
been taken, the said Clause is clear-
ticle 27 of the Imperial Constitution.
ly against the spirit of the Con-
because the Government will be en-
stitution, I believe.
abled thereby to do for nothing what
Compulsory Investment
it would otherwise require several
billions of yen.
Against Constitution
to ask a question is this. In the
The second point on which I want
What I want to ask the Govern-
ElectrityTransmission
Company
Law there are provisions under
ment, first, is the fact that in this
Article 4 and under later Articles re-
Japan Electricity Transmission Com-
garding compulsory investment. All
ly against the spirit of the Imperial
pany Law here is a provision clear-
those provisions demand compulsory
investment. whether or not the al-
Constitution. It is Clause 3 of Arti-
cle 9 of this Law. According to this
pduies desire it. In other words,
rendy-existent electrie power com-
provision, it is stated that the stan-
whether or not the already-existent
are the objects of compuisory in-
daid of appraisal of things, which
clectric power companies have a will
to make investment, it is provided
vestments on the part of civilian
that the objects of investment which
companies be fixed by an Imperial
the Government has fixed, according
decree. When people sell things or
to Article 12, shall naturally pass
make investnient, the most import-
into the hands of this new Company.
ant thing is what price they can get
1 am not discussing the propriety
for it. In selling things to others.
or impropricty of such a provision.
no one in ordinary cases would think
I only point out the fact that such
of making such a contract as to al-
a provision. if retained. would prac-
low the other party to fix the stand-
tically prove to be of no service.
ard of appraisal of things he is going
"Investnient" differs from "accept-
to sell at the latter's diseretion. What
ance of shares." When there is to
Article 27 of the Constitution says.
be established a company or when
is, "Dispositions necessary for the
there arises a necessity to cause its
sake of public good shall be made
capital increase, there must first
according to the provisions of the
take place the acceptance of its
lc.w," indicating that such an im-
shares. To be more precise, there
portant matter must be fixed by the
must be filed an application for ac-
ceptance of shares. while there must
law.
What I want to stress is that in
come with this what we might call
the present Law there is no legal
"a consent" to granting the accept-
provision entered whereby we can
ance. Only such an indication of
have the standard of appraisal, the
will on both parties will make pos-
sible the acceptance of shares, and
most important thing in such deal-
by the acceptance of the shares there
ings, this matter being committed
arise the obligations to make invest-
to an Imperial decree. This, I think,
ment, and the fulflment of these
is clearly against the spirit of Article
obligations means the investment. In
27 of the Constitution. I might per-
the aforesaid provisions the words
haps say that herein exists a sort
"compulsory investment" are used,
of pitfall.
but in no part of the provisions is
Communications Minister Nagai
it indicated that the compulsory ac-
has just said that in deciding this
ceptance of shares can be made with-
uppraisal there will be formed a cer-
out asking the will of the acceptors.
tein Committee, after whose confer-
Are not such provisions virtually
ence the matter will be decided. Mr.
useless?
Nagai also assured the House that
The third point on which I want
the Government is prepared to make

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
requent- to purohase the Company's
absolutely necessary.
shares, meets with diffculty for cash
payment, it can give the Company's
debentures instead. This proviston
vision "the term gain" can be assur-
again, practically, will prove unen-
ed. But is this proviston alone sum-
forceable. As its name indicates, the
clent? As I understand it, this pro-
Japan
Electricity
Transmission
vision alone is not. Another provi-
Company (to be more precise, the
slon must be added to this. But a-
Nippon
ElectricityTranamission
side from this question, it must be
Kabushiki Kaisha) is indisputably a
said this provision is absolutely ne-
stock company. Unless there is an
cessary if Japan desires no payment.
exceptional provision in this Iaw.
Yet at the same time, as a result of.
therefore, all aots will come under
this, this provision will unfalingly
the application of the provisions con-
prove to be of such a kind as to in-
cerning stock companies in the Com-
fringe upon the vested rights due to
mercial Law. But according to the
contracts made. Such a provision
provisions of the Commercial Iaw,
indeed may
becomenecesary
in case of issuance of a company's
against Japanese creditors, but t
debentures, the sten involves var!-
must be realized that the majority
ous forms of difcult procedure. For
of the holders of debentures in for-
instance, payment for debentures is
elgn currency are all foreigners.
first caused to be made and then
Perhaps the majority are believed to
after offcial registration taking place
be British and Americans, particu-
-only after this official registration
larly the latter. Against such Ame-
taking place—is it possible to issue
ricans this provision will prove an
the debentures. It is, however, clear
infringment on their vested rights
that what this Clause 3 of Article 15
due to the contrast made. will the
aims at does not mean the taking of
Americans really welcome this?
such procedure.
The Americans are highly sensi-
Debenture Problom
tive to such a legal issue. The fact
will be best understood by recollec-
Next is regarding the disposition of
tlon of that long controversy in the
debentures. As ycu are aware, many
United States over the "gold clause"
electric power companies have estab-
issue.
lishedwhat
arecalledtheir
Foreign Viewpoint
"factory foundations." and upon this
The Government reiterates that as
security they have issued their de-
it gives full assurances nothing will
bentures. Especially in the case of
be safer. It says that if there should
the companies which have debentures
occur any infringement of the con-
in foreign currency. they have had
tracts the debenture holders virtual-
very large trust contracts drawn up
ly will suffer no loss on that account.
regarding those debentures, mainly in
1 perfectly agree with the Govern-
accordance with the American usage,
ment on this point. Since the Im-
whereby all the properties necessary
perial Government indicates it will
for an enterprise in a certain area
give full assurances, I believe noth-
have been made up into one factory
ing can be safer. I confidently be-
foundation. and upon this security a
lieve that the interests of the for-
big amount of debenturres in foreign
eign creditors. essentially, will suf-
currency have beea issued. But in
fer no damage. In this respect, I
this Electric Power Bill it is so pro-
perfectly agree with the Government.
vided that electric wires or plants fo
But such a view is permissible only
electricity generation by coal, for in-
among Japanese. The matter, how-
stance, which constitute the import-
ever, may prove quite different in
ant parts of those properties be com-
foreign countries. In foreign coun-
pulsorily transferred to the other
tries lately a view has come to be
party. with the result that a part of
held that none is so unsafe as loans
the properties, on wthich security the
to a government. This is because
debentures have been issued, ill
in nations of the world, perhaps with
have to be taken away by this other
the exception of Japan and several
party. This would be intolerable.
other countries. their governments
As to the aforesaid trust contracts
have all broken such contracts. They
regarding debentures in foreign cur-
have not paid the money they owed.
rency, though my statement perhaps
This provision under Article 7 must
may prove disparaging to the repu-
be cancelled. I believe. Cancellation
tation of the Government, I doubt if
of this provision. however, would
any one in the Government can real-
nake the entire legislation meaning-
ly understand them. So far as 1
less. So I propose that the Govern-
know, none can really understand
ment should withdraw this Pill and
them. Here is a specimen of the
consider it fully fer another year. I
contracts, and if the Government de-
cannet think that the non-passage of
sires, I might show this later on.
this Bill through the current Diet
But all of these contracts are most-
ses ion will cause any serious trouble
ly of such a comprehensive kind,
to Japan, thoug'h the Government
each, as to cover fully one hundred
may be troubled slightly on that ac-
and scores of pages of large size, all
count. But if the Government thinks
written in English. No cursory read-
another year's study and waiting will
ing of them would impart knowledge
be a serious affair, 1 wculd propose
iof the contents, for mere reading
that the Government strike out this
without a fundamental knowledge of
provision, fully prepared to pay off a
American law regarding security or
sun of perhaps only +200,000,000 or
debentures cannot be expected to
Y300.000,000 when the requests for
give one the right knowledge.
payment come. If no practical loss is
Fifth and last, though my argu-
to be suffered on the part of foreign
ment may touch slightly on policy,
creditors by enforcement of this pro-
I shall ask a question on an extre-
vision, the retention of such a pro-
mely important point. It is nothing
vision, which is practically tanta-
else than Article 7. This provision
mcunnt to infringing upon the vested
will become absolutely necessary in
rights of foreign creditors, should
case Japan does not desire to make
be strictly avolded for the honor of
payment. When there arises a
this Empire.
claim on the part of foreign inves-

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. , to despateh
No. 2848, dated April 1,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Tuesday, March 29, 1938.
POWER BILL RETAINS
. In addition, the Government will or-
ganize an Electric Power Investigation
Commission and an Appraisal Investi-
gation Commission under Imperial or-
COMPULSION CLAUSE
dinances to put the finishing touches
on the setting up of the new concern
As power companies will have to of-
fer their power transmission and steam
power equipment to the new company
Government Authorized to Com-
on request, the only business left to
wholesaling companies after establish-
pel Investment of Equipment
ment of the company will be sale of
their hydro-electric power. The blow
in New Concern
to the companies will be severe, says
the Asahi.
Properties Valued
PAY TO BE IN DEBENTURES
Investments in steam and water
power generation plants and transmis-
sion equipment of the "Big Five"
Psychological Effect on Japa-
power companies, as well as the value
of the units to be offered to the new
nese Financial Circles Ex-
company. are given by the Asahi as
pected to Be Serious
follows:
Water and Trans- Property
"Big Five"
steam mission subject to
Companies
equipm't equipm't investm't
One of the most important points of
(Value in ¥1,000)
the bill for State control of the clectric
Tokyo Light
289.000
139,000
184.000
power industry. as adopted by the Diet
after a conference committee meeting
Saturday. is that the Government is
Toho Power ... 93.994
Daido Power .125.348
Nippon Power.. 94.244
Ujigawa Power. 73.884
33.909
52.199
33.442
42.975
80.000
90,000
70.000
60.000
invested with authority to compel the
Combined value of "Big Five" pro-
power companies to place their equip-
perty subject to investment in the new
ment at the disposal of the proposed
company is roughly estimated at ¥484.-
company, the Hochi reports.
000.000. Ratio of such property to the
Another important point. the paper
total value of the property of each of
continues, is that the Government will
the "Big Five" companies is: Tokyo
not be required to pay cash to the
Light. 20 to 30 per cent; Toho Power.
companies for the equipment invtsted
more than 30 per cent; Daido Power,
in the central concern, to be called the
about 20 per cent; Nippon Power, about
Japan Electric Power Generation and
30 per cent; and Ujigawa Power, about
Transmission Company. Payment is to
30 per cent.
be in debentures guaranteed by the
Absorptions Predicted
Government.
The sphere of their business will be
The control measure is severe, and
curbed by that much when they have
will have a serious psychological effect
invested in the new company. The re-
in Japanese financial circles. consi-
maining business is destined to lose
dering the heavy accumulation of Gov-
much of its importance and have a
ernment bond issues, the paper goes
parasitical status, depending on the ad-
on.
ministrative policy of the Government
Control Extension Feared
and the business results of the new
It is also feared, the Hochi says. that
company, the Asahi believes.
Japan will be led in the direction of
As a result. these power companies
State control of all enterprises sucep-
are expected to concentrate on mainte-
tible to monopoly, including banking.
nance of their present contracts as a
insurance and the munitions industry.
defensive measure. Retaining companies
apart from the question of whether
will ask wholesaling companies to cut
such control will tend toward effective
their rates and enlarge their distri-
enlargement of industrial productivity
bution lines.
and perfection of the wartime econo-
Small electric power companies in
mic structure to enhance national
the provinces are bound to be absorbed
strength.
by the large companies, the paper goes
The bill is to be enforced from April
on. Readjustment of distribution lines.
1, 1939.
aimed at by the Government, is likely
to be achieved gradually.
In preparation for establishment of
the new company, the Commur:ications
Ministry will establish a Preparations
Bureau and also organize an establish-
ment commission consisting of Govern-
ment officials and representatives of
financial and industrial circles.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3, to despatch
No. 2848, dated April 7,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Tuesday, March 29, 1938.
Passage Of Power
comperies, while requiring the
Control Bills
Government to guarantee an annual
dividend of 4 per cent to the
The long-pending question of
shareholders of the existing
partial nationalization of the
electric companies. These new
electric power industry which has
arrangements are very favorable to
caused serious controversies be-
the private interesta.
However, a certain uneasiness is
tween the administrative authori-
felt in some sections over the fact
ties and private interests for
that a precedent has been set re-
several years, has finally been
settled, as the Administration's
garding compulsory investments.
Some argue that it will be possible
Electric Power Control Bills were
for the Government to alter the
passed by the Imperial Diet about
midnight last Saturday, a com-
provisions of the law later in favor
of the proposed company and
promise having been reached
against the existing private com
among the House of Peers. the
panies. They further conjecture
House of Representatives and the
that the Goverament may possibl.
Government on several impor:ant
adopt the monoply system for the
points in the legislation.
electric power industry, in spite of
Thus the flerce opposition waged
reassurances given by the au-
by fnancial and industrial circles
thorities that the present law is
has been buried, and one of the
not in any way the premise of a
most important industries, the tola!
monopoly system. Again, they
capital investments in which
fear that, a new precedent hav-
amounts to more than y6,000,000.-
ing been set, the Government may
000, has come to an historic turn-
hereafter attempt to legislate
ing point.
similar laws for sugar, beer, in-
The present law has far-reach-
rance, coal and other important
ing significance. Several import-
business branches.
ant amendments were added to the
This apprehension may be justifi-
original bills, substantially moder-
able, but at the same time it may
ating them, before they were ap-
be merely imaginary. The au-
proved by the Diet, but the provi-
thorities reiterated that they have
sion that private electric supply
no intention of extending the con-
companies shall be caused to in-
trol system over other industries
vest their equipment in a new
and business lines, nor any idea of
semi-official power company re-
setting up new monopoly systems.
mains intact, and the influence of
Probably business should accept
the law in this direction apparent-
the reassurance of the Government
ly will be quite great in financial
as bona fide. New Cabinets that
and industrial circles.
may be formed in the future may
Instead of the vague provision
attempt what is not attempted by
of the grigimal bill in connection
the present Cabinet, should the
with the appraisement of the as-
political situation so develop, but
sets of the existing electric power
this is a question of the long future.
supply opmpanles to be inyested in
It must bé essential for the Gov-
the proposed semi-official com-
ernment and business today to
pany, the amended law explicitly
cooperate closely in achlevin
peovides for a legal standard of
smooth and rational. operation ef
appraisement The latter further
the law in question so that
eevides fer the new company's
purchase of skpree in the existing

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
ther healthy development of the
As to whether
industry and that it may not
cause a serious shrinkage in the
bring about loy
enterprising spirit of industrial-
electricity, it is
The Government may en
ists.
law in a special manner to benent
It appears that the Government
the munition industries and new
authorities concerned are endea-
industries of importance so that
voring to act justly and appro-
these may be able to get cheaper
priately in enforcing the new
electric power, in view of the
system. It was made known that
prevailing emergency conditions.
the Communications Ministry
However, there is little likelihood
would set up within itself a
of a reduction in the general
special Bureau to make necessary
electric rates, in spite of the fact
preparations for the enforcement
that among the purposes of the
of the new law and that a num-
law it is explicitly stipulated that
ber of private electric technicians
the aim is to supply electricity in
would be invited to join the staff
abundance and at low ratés. The
of the Bureau. At the same tinie,
prevailing monetary situstion and
the Ministry intends to appoint a
the advancing tendeney of com-
large number of financial and in-
modity prices will restrict any at-
dustrial leaders as members of the
tempt of the Administration in
organization committee for the
this direction.
proposed power generation and
transmission company, just as in
the case of the organization con-
mittee of the Nippon Iron nu-
facturing Company. It is also
understood that private interests
will be represented to a con-
siderable extent in the proposed
Electric Power Investigation Com-
mission and the Committee to
Appraise Assets of the existing
electric power companies. The
Government's attitude indicates
that the authorities will not com-
mit any irrational and excessively
severe action in aperating the
new law.
Regarding the question involv-
ing bonded foreign debts of the
existing companies, which were
discussed in'this colunn sometime
ago, little improvement is notice-
able in the amended law. The
creditors are to be satisfied by the
fact that their interests are doubly
protected by the new semi-official
company and the Government.
Theoretically, the interests of the
creditors are not protected with
respect to the reduction in the
earning position of the debtor
companies. Practically, however,
it is inconceivable that the in-
terests of foreign creditors will be
jeopardized, since there is much
evidence that the Government will
take great care in the treatment
of the foreign interests.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 1, 1938.
05
DWB
Tokyo's 2909, Apr11 30, 1938, en-
titled "Electrio Power Control Lerisla-
tion."
The despatch encloses a full trans-
lation of the Electric Power Bill as it
passed the Diet. The terms of the bill
need not be read, although they may
possibly be of some use for the files,
and the Embassy's summary of the terms
of the bill adds nothing material to
our knowledge of the terms of the bill
received from previous reports.
Imt
FE: Jonas: HES

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
11081
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 2909
Tokyo, April 30, 1938
SUBJECT:
ELECTRIC PO.ER COTTROL LEGISLATION.
8  11 5
S
Commnce
S
Caky m 7F T. Pomer
5C
kl
rivision ef
B
110.115
894.6463/26
fil
REGODING DESK
FLE - C.B.M.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INT RNATIONAL FO C AFFARIS
JUN 2 8 1938
The Honorable
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
The Secretary of S
Washington
Sir:
894. 6/=
I have the honor to refer to my despatch no. 2848
of April 1, l938, regarding the passage of electric
power legislation by the Diet, and to enclose a full
1/
translation by the Embassy of the Electric Fower Control
2/
Law, the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
3/
Company Limited Law, the Law Relating to the Disposition
of Debentures in Connection with the Control of Electric
Power, and the Law Concerning the Revision of the Elec-
JUN 2 9 1938
trio Industry Iaw.
FILED
Article 1 of the Electric Power Control Law empowers
the Government to control the generation and transmission
of
K

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
of •lectricity. Article 2 turns the actual operation
of the industry over to a company known as the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company, Limited.
The Government is permitted by Article 3 of the same
law to fix the rates at which electric power is sold.
Article 5 sets up a deliberative commission for the
purpose of effecting the actual transfer of the power
industry from private interests to the new company
under Government control. The remainder of the law
consists of penal provisions.
The Japan Electric Ceneration and Transmission
Company Limited Law sets up a comipany of that name
which is to acquire by ordinance existing electric
power facilities. rticle 9 of this law provides an
elaborate formula for calculating the value of these
facilities, largely based on the construction price
and return from them over the past ten years. The new
company will allot shares to the owners of the existing
facilities in an amount equal to the value determined
under Article 9. In the event the owners are dissatis-
fied with the value ultimately determined they are per-
mitted recourse to the ordinary courts. According to
Article 15 of the law the holders of shares in the new
company may request the company to purchase these shares
at face value within three years of the date of transfer
of their facilities. The company is permitted, however,
to issue debentures guaranteed by the Government in pay-
ment for these shares. A yearly return of four per cent
is guaranteed by the Government on the shares of the new
company. Other provisions of the company law deal with
its general organization, the only one worthy of atten-
tion being Article 22 which stipulates that officials of
the

=== Page 59 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
the Communications Ministry may not become officers of
the new company until five years after they have severed
connection with the Government. This provision was in-
serted to forestall the criticism that the new company
would be operated directly by bureaucrats unacquainted
with the industry and wculd virtually become their
"preserve". In actual practice the provision will
probably not prove important because of the wide-
sw eeping character of the control of the industry by
the Government.
The first four articles of the Law Pertaining to
the Disposition of Debentures in Connection with the
Control of Electric Power deal with so-called factory
syndicates, combinations formed by the existing power
companies on the basis of which debentures were issued.
These combinations are left undisturbed. The Japan Elec-
tric Generation and Transmission Company Limited takes
over their obligations, but is indemnified against
losses on mortgages through the deposit of collateral
by the existing companies. Article 6 provides that the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited succeeds to the obligations and restrictions
imposed by the original debenture contracts. According
to Article 7, however, no obligation exists to pay
principal and interest on debentures prior to date of
maturity despite changes which may take place as the
result of the formation of the new company. This pro-
vision was included in the law to prevent demands by
debenture

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
debenture holders, principally foreign, for immediate
payment on the ground that their original contracts
had been impaired by the setting up of the new company.
The fourth part of the legislation, the Law Con-
cerning the Revision of the Electric Industry Law, con-
sists of minor changes in the old law to make it conform
to the provisions of the Electric rower Control Law.
The deliberative commission described in Article 5
of the Electric Power Control Law has already been
selected and is expected to begin its work about May 1.
No serious difficulties are foreseen in putting this
legislation into effect, the electric interests as
represented by the Electric Industry League having an-
nounced that they will cooperate with the Government
despite the opposition they have displayed in the past.
As a sequel to the fight on this legislation the police
recently claimed to have discovered that the power in-
terests bribed a number of Diet members to oppose the
bills. In any event, there are numerous indications
that the Government is determined to carry out its pro-
gram, of which the electric power legislation is but a
beginning.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
1 - as stated.
864.
FAS:mg

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 2909 of April 30, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
We grant Imperial Sanotion to, and hereby order
to be promulgated, the Electric Power Control Law
which has received the concurrence of the Imperial Diet.
Imperial Sign Manual and rivy Seal.
April 5, 1938 (13th year of howa)
Frince Fumimaro Konoe
Frime Minister.
yutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications.
Law No. 76.
ELECTRIC IOAR CONTROL LAN
Article 1. For the purpose of facilitatin through-
out the nation an abundance of electric power at low
rates, the Government shall control in accordance with
this law the generation and transmission of electricity.
However, that generation and transmission of electricity
which is exclusively for private use or that which satis-
fies the demand of one locality, or that which is
specially regulated by Imperial ordinance shall not fall
within these restrictions.
Article 2. In the transmission and generation of
electricity which is controlled by this law, according
to the provisions of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law, the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited shall re-
quire the transmission and generation of electricity by
electric power facilities which have been determined by
Imperial ordinance.
Article 3. The Government shall decide upon pro-
grams for the establishment of, and changes in electric
power

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
power facilities, electric power rates, and other
important items in relation to the receiving and supply-
ing of the electric power of the Japan Electric Genera-
tion and Transmission Company, Limited.
The standard for electric power rates which is to
be determined according to the provisions of the fore-
going paragraph, shall be decided by governmental orders.
Article 4. The Government may issue to those who
generate or transmit electricity under the governmental
control orders which are necessary for the supervision
of the methods of generation and transmission.
The Government shall compensate for the losses
which arise from the orders mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph.
Article 5. There shall be established the lectric
Power Deliberative Commission for the purpose of reply-
ing to the inquiries of the Government concerning a pre-
arranged program for electric generation and transmission,
electric power rates, and other important items relating
to electric generation and transmission under Government
control.
The regulations for the Electric Power Deliberative
Commission shall be determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 6. Those who violate the orders given in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph one of
artiole four shall be fined not more than two thousand yen.
Article 7. When representatives of juridical per-
sons, agents of juridical persons, or individuals, em-
ployees, or other members of an organization, in carrying
out the business of the juridical person or the individual,
commit

=== Page 63 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
commit the offense mentioned in the previous article,
in addition to the punishment of the individual com-
mitting the act, the juridical person or the individual
shall also be given the fine stipulated in the fore-
going article.
Supplementary Regulations.
The date for the enforcement of this law shall be
determined for each article by an Imperial ordinance.
When article two is enforced, those who are already
allowed under the provisions of article two to generate
and transmit electricity according to the provisions of
the orders, may continue temporarily to transmit and
generate electricity as they have done formerly.
When the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited actually carries out the generation and
transmission of electricity in accordance with the pro-
visions of article two, the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall succeed to those con-
tracts relating to electric transmission and generation
for the supply and consumption of electric power which
are in existence at the time of the enforcement of the
provisions of article two.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch
no. 2909 of April 30, 1938,
from the mbassy at Tokyo.
(Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law).
We grant Imperial sanotion to, and hereby order
to be promulgated the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law which has received
the concurrence of the Imperial Diet.
Imperial Sign Lianual and Privy Seal.
April 5, 1938 (13th Year of Showa).
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Frime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Communications Minister
Okinobu Kaya
Finance Minister
Law No. 77
JAPAN ELECTRIC GENERATION AND TRANSMTSSION
COMFANY LIMITED LAW.
Chapter 1.
General Regulations
Article 1. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall be a corporation
organized for the purpose of carrying out that genera-
tion and transmission of electricity which is under
government control and for the establishing of elec-
tric power equipment and other related facilities.
In accordance with the orders, or by the per-
mission, of the Minister of State concerned, the Japan
Eleotric Generation and Transmission Company Limited
may in addition to that which is provided for in the
foregoing paragraph, engage in allied enterprises.
Artiole 2. The period of existence of the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company,Limited,
shall

=== Page 65 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
shall be five years after the date of the registration
of the establishment of the company. With the per-
mission of the Minister of State concerned, however,
this may be extended.
Article 3. Shares of the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited shall be name-bearing
stock certificates and their ownership shall be limited
to the Government, public bodies, Japanese subjects, or
Japanese juridical persons providing not more than half
of the members of the company, stockholders, or officials
who carry out the business affairs, are foreigners and
not more than half of the capital funds or the majority
of the voting power is held by foreigners or foreign
juridical persons.
Chapter II.
Investment.
Article 4. The Government may, as stipulated in
this chapter, require electric power equipment and
other allied facilities designated by an Imperial or-
dinance in accordance with the provisions of article
two of the Electric Fower Control Law, to be trans-
ferred to the Japan Electric Generation and Trans-
mission Company Limited as an investment in that company.
Article 5. When the Government is going to require
the transfer, as an investment, to the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited of the
electric power and allied facilities mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, the date and the facilities to be
transferred as an investment shall be publicly announced.
In

=== Page 66 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
In the instance of the foregoing paragraph, the
Government shall so notify the Japan Electric Genera-
tion and Transmission Company Limited and the owners
of the said facilities.
Article 6. When the owners of the facilities
which are the object of the transfer as an investment,
after the notification of paragraph two of the fore-
going article has been given, are going to change the
existing condition of the facilities, they must obtain
the authorization of the Minister of State concerned
in accordance with the governmental orders.
Article 7. After the notification mentioned in
paragraph 2 of article 5 has been given, owners of
those facilities which are to be transferred as an
investment may not without the authorization of the
Minister of State concerned transfer those facilities,
and may not take any action which would create any new
rights, in addition to the rights of ownership, in the
said facilities.
Article 8. The Government may transfer, as an
investment, to the Japan Electric Generation and Trans-
mission Company Limited, Government-owned electric
power equipment and other allied facilities.
Article 9. The value of the facilities to be
transferred as an investment shall be computed on the
basis of an amount equivalent to one-half of the total
of the amounts listed under each of the following
classifications:
1.
The amount obtained by subtracting from the
cost of the construction of the said
facilities the amount of the depreciation
sinking fund.
2.
The amount obtained by applying an estab-
lished rate of interest to the amount re-
sulting from multiplying the construction
costs

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
costs of the contributed facilities by
the average rate of profit, in relation
to the construction costs, which the
owners of the said facilities have received
during the past ten years.
The Minister of State concerned shall after the
consideration of the Electric Power appraisal and
Award Commission has been obtained, determine the con-
struction costs, amount of the sinking fund for de-
preciation, and the profits mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph.
The established rate of interest of item no. 2 of
paragraph one shall be in accordance with the provisions
of an Imperial ordinance.
Article 10. The regulations concerning the Elec-
tric Power appraisal and Award Commission shall be
determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Article ll. The Japan Llectric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall allot to the owners
of the facilities transferred as an investment fully-
paid-up shares of an amount equal to the value which
is determined in accordance with the provisions of
article 9. However, that portion of the amount which
is not exactly equal to one share of the said stock
shall be paid for with money.
When there are changes in the facilities trans-
ferred as an investment, and when the value of that
part which was changed has not been determined by the
date of the allocation of shares, the amount of money
for that part may be settled with cash. Changes which
are made after the allocation of shares may be treated
in the same manner.
Article 12.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Artiole l2. Those facilities which are to be
transferred as an investment shall be regarded as
being transferred to the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited as an investment on
the date of the registration of the establishment of,
or the increase of capital of the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited.
Article 13. When a person who transfers property
as an investment is dissatisfied with the value of the
property transferred as an investment as determined in
accordance with the provisions of article 9, he may
bring legal action in the ordinary courts within one
month after he has received notice of the decision made
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph two of
article 9.
When the value of the property transferred as an
investment as adjudged by the ordinary courts is greater
than that which was determined in accordance with the
provisions of article 9, the difference shall be paid
with money after the date of the registration of the
establishment or the increase of capital of the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited.
Article 14. When because of the transfer as an
investment of electric power and allied facilities it
is not possible to continue operating the remaining
electrical enterprises, those who have transferred
property as an investment may request the Japan Elec-
tric Generation and Transmission Company Limited to
purchase the facilities of the said enterprises.
When in accordance with the provisions of the
forogoing pmragraph, the possibility of continuing
business

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-
business operations, the purchase value, the scope of
the purchase, and other items relating to the purchase
cannot be decided by consultations between the parties
involved, the Minister of State concerned shall decide
these matters.
Negotiations between the parties involved regard-
ing the purchase value shall not be effective unless
the authorization of the Minister of State concerned has
been obtained.
Those who are not satisfied with the decision men-
tioned in paragraph two in regard to the possibility of
continuing operations or the purchase value may within
three months after receiving notice of that decision
institute legal proceedings in the ordinary courts.
When in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
two or three, the Minister of State concerned is to make
a decision, or give his authorization, he shall obtain
the counsel of the Electric Power Appraisal and Award
Commission.
Article 15. Persons who have transferred as an
investment electric power equipment and other allied
facilities may within the three years following the
date of transfer as an investment request the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited to
purchase at face value those shares which were given in
return for the property transferred as an investment.
In the instance of the preceding paragraph, the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited may temporarily acquire those shares.
The

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
The Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited may, with the agreement of the person
who has transferred property as an investment, or when
there are special circumstances deliver at the market
value debentures, the payment of which is guaranteed
by the Government in accordance with the provisions of
an Imperial ordinance, as the price for the purchase
mentioned in paragraph one, special provisions regard-
ing the issuance of the debentures may be made by
Imperial ordinance.
The Government may guarantee the payment of the
principal and interest of the debentures mentioned in
the preceding paragraph.
Article 16. The Japan lectric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall, in accordance with
the provisions of Governmental orders, succeed to the
rights and obligations in regard to the use or occupa-
tion of roads or other land, and the rights and obliga-
tions in regard to the use of rivers, lakes, or swamps,
which belonged to the electric power equipment and
other allied facilities which were required in accordance
with the provisions of article 4 to be transferred as
an investment to the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited, or belonged to the owners
of the said facilities.
Article 17. Necessary items in regard to the
registrations mentioned in artiole l2 and in the fore-
going article shall be determined by Imperial ordinance.
Chapter III.
Orficials.
Artiole 18. The Japan Electric Generation and
Tranamission

=== Page 71 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-
Transmission Company Limited shall have one president,
one vice president, five or more directors and three
or more auditors.
Article 19. The president shall represent the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited and shall exercise control over its business
affairs.
The vice president shall act as the agent of
president in his official duties when the president
is unavoidably absent, and shall perform the official
duties of president when that post is vacant.
The vice president and the directors shall assist
the president, and in accordance with the articles of
incorporation, shall share and participate in the
business affairs of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited.
The auditors shall audit the business affairs of
the Japan Electric Ceneration and Transmission Company
Limited.
Article 20. The president and vice president shall
be appointed by the Government with Imperial sanction.
Their term of office shall be five years.
There shall be elected at a general meeting of
the stockholders, a group of twice the number of
directors. From this group the directors shall be ap-
pointed for period of office of four years by the
Government.
The auditors shall be selected at a general meet-
ing of the stockholders for a term of office of three
years.
Article 21

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
Article 2l. The president, vice president, and
the directors of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited who take charge of a
part of the official duties shall not engage in any
other business or commercial enterprise. This limita-
tion shall not be effective, however, when the au-
thorization of the Minister of State concerned has
been received.
Article 22. Persons who were officials of Govern-
ment offices controlling the electrical enterprise
industry may not for five years after resigning from
their duties become officials of the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited or engage
in any business receiving an allowance from that com-
pany. When the Minister of State concerned concludes
that there is a special necessity, however, this
restriction shall not apply.
Chapter IV.
Business Affairs.
Article 23. Necessary items concerning the re-
ceiving and in turn supplying of electric power by
the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited and the administration of other business affairs
shall be determined by governmental orders.
Article 24. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall require the carrying
out of changes in, and the construction of, electric
power equipment and other allied facilities in accordance
with the provisions of the orders of the Minister of
State

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
State concerned in conformity with the programs for
the establishment of and for changes in, equipment
as mentioned in article 3 of the Electric Power
Control Law.
Article 25. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall pay due compensa-
tion to those who are the object of the aispositions,
mentioned in the preceding article, which are made by
the administrative government office.
When construction work for which permission or
authorization has been received has not yet been begun,
the compensation of the foregoing paragraph shall be
limited to the ordinary expenses which have been paid
for investigation, surveying, and other preparations
for construction.
Article 26. When the owners of electric power
equipment receive profit from the establishment or
change of electric power and allied facilities made by
the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited, they shall bear a part, equal to the
amount of the profit received, of the cost of the
construction work relating to that establishment or
change.
Article 27. The provisions of paragraphs two and
four of article 14 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
provisions for the compensation of article 25 and to the
defrayment of costs mentioned in the foregoing article.
Article 28. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited may not refuse to purchase
the electric power generated by the generating facilities
which are connected with its transmission facilities.
Chapter V

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
Chapter V.
Special Rights.
Article 29. Even though the total amount of the
capital funds has not been paid up, the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited may increase
its capital.
Article 30. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited may float debentures in
amounts exceeding the limits imposed by the stipula-
tions of the Commercial Code. The total amount of
debentures, however, may not exceed three times the
amount of paid-up capital funds.
Article 3l. When the Japan Electrio Generation
and Transmission Company Limited obtains registration
of the following items, the amount of the registration
fee shall be as follows: (when amount of the registra-
tion fee as calculated according to the Registration
Law is less than the following amount, that amount
shall determine the fee).
1. The establishment of (the company) and
the increase of capital funds through the transfers as
an investment in accordance with the provisions of
articles four or eight.
One thousandth of the amount of paid-up
capital or the amount of the paid-up shares for the
capital increases.
2. The acquisition of rights in immovables
based upon the transfers as an investment or the pur-
chases according to the stipulations of articles four,
eight, or fourteen.
Three thousandths of the value of the immovables.
Hokkaido

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Hokkaido, urban prefectures, prefectures, cities,
towns, villages and like bodies may not levy a local tax
to be paid by the Japan Electric Generation and Trans-
mission Company Limited on the acquisition of rights in
immovables (as stipulated in the foregoin: paragraph).
Article 32. When the amount of profit which may be
paid as dividends each fiscal year of the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited does not
equal a yearly return of 4% interest on the paid-up
capital (including instances of no profit or of a
deficit), the Government shall for the first fiscal year
and through the following ten years grant a subsidy
sufficient to realize that yearly return.
Each fiscal year when the amount of profit which
may be paid as dividends exceeds a 6% return on the
paid-up capital, that excess shall be applied to the
repayment of the subsidy granted in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding paragraph.
When the amount of profit which may be paid as
dividends (not including the amount of the repayments
made as stipulated in the above paragraph) exceeds six
per cent interest on the paid-up capital, the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited
shall accumulate separately more than one-half of that
excess as a dividend reserve.
That amount which has been accumulated as stipula-
ted in foregoing paragraph shall be regarded as profits
which may be paid as dividends when calculating in a
later

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
ater year the amount of the subsidy to be granted
by the Government as stipulated in paragraph one.
Chapter VI.
Supervision, Control, and Obligations.
Article 33. The Government shall supervise the
business affairs of the Japan lectric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited.
Article 34. Without obtaining the authorization
of the Minister of State concerned, changes in the
articles of association, disposition of profits, flo-
tation of debentures, or decisions for amalgamation or
dissolution shall not be valid.
Article 35. Without obtaining the authorization of
the Minister of State concerned, the Japan lectric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited may not
transfer electric power equipment or allied facilities
and may not take any action wnich would create rights,
other than the right of ownership, in those facilities.
Except in the instances in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter II, this shall also be true of
the acquisition of electric power equipment and allied
facilities.
Article 36. The Government shall appoint the
official comptrollers of the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited and require the super-
vision of the business affairs of the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited.
Article 37. The comptrollers of the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited may at any
time inspect the vaults, account books, all documents
and properties of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited.
The

=== Page 77 === (confidence 1.00)
-14-
The comptrollers of the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited may at any time they
consider it necessary issue an order to the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited
and require reports on the diverse accounts or condi-
tions of the business affairs.
The comptrollers of the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited may attend the general
stockholders' meetings and other c ompany meetings and
express their opinions.
Article 38. The Minister of State concerned, when
he finds that a decision of the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited or an act of an offi-
cial is in violation of the laws and ordinances, a
disposition based upon laws and ordinances, or the
or
articles of association,/is detrimental to the public
interest may invalidate that decision or discharge that
official.
Chapter VII.
Punitive Regulations.
Article 39. When actions by the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited correspond
to any one of the following instances, the company
president or vice president carrying out the duties
of president or acting as agent shall be given a disci-
plinary fine of not more than ¥5,000.00 . When the
action concerns business affairs shared and participated
in by the directors or the vice president, they also
shall be fined in the same manner.
1.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
1. In the instance of not obtaining per-
mission or authorization when such permission or au-
thorization is required by this law or by Government
orders issued in accordance with the provisions of
this law.
2. In the instance of a violation of orders
issued in accordance with the provisions of this law.
Article 40. When the president, vice president,
or directors, in violation of article 2l, engage in
any other professional or commercial enterprises,
they shall be given a disciplinary fine of not more
than ¥1,000.00.
Article 41. The provisions of articles 206 through
208 of the Code of irocedure in non-contentious cases
shall apply mutatis mutandis to the disciplinary fines
of the two foregoing articles.
Article 42. Owners of facilities which are to be
transferred as an investment who, in violation of the
provisions of article 6, change the actual conditions
of electric power equipment or of allied facilities
without obtaining the authorization of the Minister
of State concerned shall be fined not more than ¥1,000.00.
Owners of facilities which are to be transferred
as an investment, when their agents, employees, or
other participants in the business, in connection with
that enterprise perform an act which is in violation of
the preceding paragraph, may not avoid this punishment
on the premise that the action concerned was not per-
formed under their instruction.
The punitive regulations of paragraph one, in
the instance of a juridical person owning the said
facilities

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
facilities shall apply to the directors or other
officials conducting the business affairs of that
juridical person; and in the instance of minors and
incompetents shall apply to their legal representa-
tives. acts by minors who are as capable as adults
in the conduct of business affairs shall not be
included in this classification.
Supplementary Regulations.
Article 43. The date of enforcement of this law
shall be determined by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 44. The Government shall appoint the
Organization Committee and shall have it manage all
business in connection with the establishing and the
preparations for the beginning of operation of the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited.
Article 45. That which is referred to as the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited
in paragraph 2 of article 5 and in article 1l during
the establishing of the company shall be the Organiza-
tion Committee.
Article 46. In instances before the establishment
of the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Com-
pany Limited legal proceedings in accordance with the
provisions of article 13 may be brought with the Or-
ganization Committee as the other party.
When the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited has been established, the legal pro-
ceedings of the above paragraph shall be interrupted,
and in such case the company shall be required to take over
the legal proceedings.
Article 47.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Artiole 47. The Organization Committee shall draw
up the articles of association which must receive the
approval of the Minister of State concerned.
After the approval of the foregoing paragraph has
been obtained, the Organization Committee shall colicit
stockholders for the amount of the shares which remain
after subtracting from the total amount of shares that
amount of shares which is to be allocated in return for
the transfer of property as an investment other than the
property transferred as an investment in return for cash.
Article 48. Applications for shares shall contain
the date of the approval of the articles of association
and the items stipulated in clauses 2, 4, and 5 of
paragraph 2 of article l26 of the Commercial Code.
Article 49. When the Organization Committee has
completed the solicitation of stockholders, it shall
present the applications for stocke to the Minister of
State concerned for his examination.
After the examination of the above paragraph has
been completed, the Organization Committee shall promptly
call in the first payment of capital funds.
Article 50. When the payments mentioned in the
foregoing have been received, the Organization Committee
shall promptly call the inaugural meeting.
Article 5l. The decisions of the inaugural meeting
shall be determined by majority of stock subscribers
present who have the right to vote.
Article 52. In compliance with the provisions of
artiole 20, the candidates for directors and the auditors
shall be elected at the inaugural meeting.
Article 53. At the conclusion of the inaugural meet-
ing the Organization Committee shall turn over its ofricial
duties to the president of the Japan Electrio Generation
and Transmission Company Limited.
#####

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch
No. 2909 of April 30, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
We grant Imperial Sanotion to, and hereby order to be
promulgated, the Law pertaining to the Disposition of Debentures
in connection with the Control of Electric Power which has
received the concurrence of the Imperial Diet.
Imperial Sovereign Manual and Privy Seal.
April 5, 1938 (13th year of Showa)
Frince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister.
Eyutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications
Okinobu Keya
Minister of Finance
Law No. 78.
Article 1. Those companies which belong to a syndicate of
factories shall continue to belong to this syndicate after they
have been transferred to the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited at the time of the registration of
the establishment or of an increase in capital of that company
in accordance with the provisions of articles 16 and 12 of the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited Law.
Necessary items regarding registration in the instance of
the above paragraph shall be determined by Imperial ordinance.
Article 2. Persons who have, in accordance with the provisions
of Artiole 4 of the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law, transferred as an investment electric power
oquipment or other allied facilities belonging to a factory
syndicate

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
yndicate shall, except in the instance of succession to the
obligation to pay as stipulated in paragraph one of Article 4,
deposit adguate collateral security, in accordance with the
provisions of an Imperial ordinance, to fully indemnify losses
which the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited may suffer because of the execution of mortgages.
The Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited shall have a mortgage right in that which is deposited
in accordance with the provisions of the above paragraph.
Article 3. When those who have transferred facilities as
an investment, as mentioned in paragraph one of the foregoing
article, neglect to pay the principal or the interest on
debentures which are secured by the facilities transferred as
an investment, the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited may pay the proper principal or interest for
the person who transferred property as an investment.
When in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited has paid the principal or interest of debentures, it
may set aside from the amount which should be paid as stock
dividends to those who have transferred facilities as an
investment or from the debenture redemption fund or interest
an appropriate amount for the repayment of unavoidable expenses
as well as that interest or principal paid.
Article 4. The Government, when it recognizes that, because
of the transfer as an investment of all or a large part of the
facilities which belonged to a syndicate of factories and were
the seourity for debentures, it would not be proper for the
one who made this transfer as an investment to bear the burden
of the debentures, may cause the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited in accordance with the provisions
of an Imperial ordinance to succeed to the obligation of paying
tho

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
interest and principal of these debentures.
When the Government causes the Japan Electrio Power
Generation and Transmission Company Limited to succeed to
the obligations to pay the principal and interest of debentures
in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph,
it shall issue a public notice in regard to the kind and
denomination of the debentures concerned and the date for
succession. In such case, the Government shall notify the
Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company Limited
and the investors as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph to
that effeot.
When the date for succession as mentioned in the foregoing
paragraph falls on the day of the registration of the founding
of the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company
Limited or the registration of an increase in the capital of the
company, the allotment of shares to the investors concerned to
be made in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 7 of
Article ll of the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law shall be made on the basis of the amount
obtained after deducting the price of the debentures succeeded
to from the price of the facilities invested.
Article 5. When the Government recognizes it to be
necessary to take such steps in the case of the first paragraph
of the foregoing article, it may cause the Japan Electric
Power Goneration and Transmission Company Limited to purchase
the remaining electric power facilities and accessory facilities
belonging to the factory syndicate as mentioned in Paragraph 1
of Article 2 in accordance with the provisions of Imperial Ordinance
Tho

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
The provisions of Paragraphs 2 to 5 of Artiole 14 of
the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company
Limited Law shall be applied mutatis mutandis in regard to
the purohase price and other conditions of purchase in the
case of the foregoing paragraph.
The provisions of Article 1 and those of Article 31 of the
Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company Limited
Law shall be applied mutatis mutandis in the case of the first
paragraph.
Article 6. The Japan Electric Power Generation and
Transmission Company Limited shall succeed to the obligations
and restrictions imposed by the original contracts concerning
the debentures secured by the electric power facilities and
accessory facilities which have been transferred in accordance
with the provisions of the foregoing article and those of
Article 4 of the Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law, except those stipulated by decree.
Article 7. When persons who have invested electric power
facilities and accessory facilities in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 4 of the Japan Electric Power Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law have received a request to
pay the principal and interest of their debentures not yet
falling due for redemption or other requests because of
changes in the property taking place as a result of the Electric
Power Control Law, the Japan Electric Power Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law, or the present law, they shall
not oomply with the request.
The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall be applied
mutatis mutandis in regard to the Japan Eleotric Power Generation
and

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
and Transmission Company Limited in case the company has
succeeded to the obligations to make payment in accordance
with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 4.
Article 8. Except when succession to the obligations to
make payment has been made in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraph 1 of Article 4, the Government may cause the Japan
Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company Limited to
guarantee the payment of the principal and interest of the
debentures as mentioned in Article 6 in accordance with the
provisions of Imperial Ordinance.
The Government may guarantee the payment of the principal
and interest of the debentures as mentioned in Artiole 6 in
accordance with the provisions of Imperial ordinance.
Supplementary Rule
The date for the enforcement of the present law shall
be determined by Imperial ordinance.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch
no. 2909 of April 30, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Law Concerning Revision of Electric Industry Law.
We sanction the law concerning the revision of
the Electric Industry Law as approved by the Imperial
Diet and hereby cause the same to be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual
Imperial Seal
April 5th, 13th Year of Showa (1938).
Frime Minister, Frince Fumimaro Konoe.
Communications Minister, Ryutaro Nagai.
Law No. 79.
The Electric Industry Law shall be revised as
follows:
The expression "depreciation and others" shall be
inserted to follow the expression "business and" as
contained in the second paragraph of Article 23,and the
expression "expansion of supply" shall be inserted to
follow the expression "improvement" as contained in the
said paragraph.
The expression "or transmission by request" shall
be inserted to follow the expression "diversion of
electricity" as contained in the first paragraph of
Article 24.
Clause 2 of Article 26 - The competent State Minister
may order persons engaged in electric enterprises as men-
tioned in Clause 1 or Clause 3 of Article 1 to hand over
by transfer the whole or a part of their electrio enter-
prises in order to promote the diffusion of electricity,
•qualization of electricity charges and other improvements
of the business of supplying electricity, when it is
deemed

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
teemed necessary from the standpoint of public interest.
The provisions of the fourth paragraph and the
fifth paragraph of Article 29 shall be applied mutatis
mutandis in regard to the transfer made in accordance
with the order as mentioned in the foregoing paragraph.
The fourth clause of Article 27 shall be made the
fifth clause, its third clause shall be made the fourth
clause, and the following clause shall be inserted to
follow the second clause:
Clause 3 - hen the electric facilities
have come into the possession of the Japan
Electric Fower Generation and Transmission
Company Limited on account of the investment
as stipulated in Article 4 of the Japan Elec-
tric Power Generation and Transmission Company,
Limited, Law.
The expression "the second clause of Article 26"
shall be inserted to follow the expression "the first
paragraph of Article 24" as contained in the first para-
graph of Article 32.
Supplementary Rule.
The date for the enforcement of the present law
shall be determined by Imperial ordinance.
(Reference)
Extract from the Electric Industry Law,
the Law No. 61 promulgated on April 2d
of the 6th Year of Showa (1931).
Paragraph 2 of Article 23: - The competent State
Minister may issue orders to persons engaged in electric
enterprises with regard to matters concerning the recon-
struction, improvement, etc. involving electric works,
the

=== Page 88 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
the construction work thereor, business and accounting,
when such measures are deemed necessary from the stand-
point of control.
Paragraph 1 of Article 24: - The competent State
Minister may order persons engaged in electric enter-
prises to establish or change or make common use of
electric works, or divert electricity or prolong or
shorten the period concerning construction work, for the
purpose of enhancing the utility of electric facilities
or regulating the demand-supply relations concerning
electricity, when it is deemed necessary from the stand-
point of public interest.
Article 27. The permission as mentioned in Article
3 shall become null and void in regard to the scope con-
cerned, in the following cases:
(The following cases are omitted here).
Paragraph 1 of Article 32: - An electric committee
shall be created to give counsel at the request of the
competent State Minister in regard to orders or disposi-
tions based on the provisions of the first paragraph of
Article 24 or the first paragraph of Article 28 or
other important matters concerning electric enterprises.
#####

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 22, 1938.
Tokyo's 3037, June 21, 1938, "Govern-
ment Control of the Kleotric Industry".
The Embassy transmits a translation of
the Imperial ordinance setting forth the
official organization of the electric power
deliberative commission, a translation of
the revision of the regulations for the
•leotrio committee, the official organiza-
tion of the preparatory bureau for electric
power control, and a list of members of the
leotrio power commission. These documents
may be of some use to other departments of
the Government and for this Department's
riles.
The Embassy also transmits a copy of
an article appearing in the Japanese press
reporting on the first meeting of the de-
liberative commission, which, according to
the press, proposed that 85 peroent of the
thermal gonerating plants and 60 percent of
the hydraulio plants in Japan be turned
over to a company to be known as the Japan
Electrio Generating and Transmission Company.
894.6463/27
FE:Jone:NN

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
14693
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 3037.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 21, 1938.
SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF THE ELECTRIC INDUSTRY.
CoRyn
894.6443
JUI
894.6463/27
TAS
0
LAIAN AFFAIHS
DT
ThecHonorable
ASSISTAN SECRETARY
A-MC
TheSecretary of State,
REGORDING
FILED
OF STATE
FILE
B.M.
Washington.
24
GG
30, 38, I have the honor to forward herewith the Embassy's
translation of the Imperial ordinance setting forth the official
organization of the electric power deliberative commission.
The commission, composed of not more than twenty-five members
and a chairman, is to deliberate upon provisional plans for the
generation and transmission of electric power, electric rates,
and other important matters concerning the generation and trans-
mission of electrio power under governmental control. The
members

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
members are to be appointed by the cabinet on the nomination
of the Minister of Communications, who is to be the chairman,
and are to be higher civil service officers from interested
government offices, or persons of learning and experience.
The general affairs of the commission will be managed by an
executive secretariat.
It was reported in the press that the first meeting
of this commission was held on June 4, 1938, and that at that
time, the draft proposals of the electric power control
preparatory bureau were unanimously adopted. A copy of the
2/
press report as printed in the JAPAN TIMES is enclosed.
On the basis of this draft proposal, it was estimated
that the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
would, when established, control approximately 85% of the
thermal generating plants and 60% of the hydraulic plants
in Japan. At the same time, it was reported that the Govern-
ment would officially publish in the near future a list of
the properties which are to be placed under the control of
the company. The report of the properties to be transferred
will be submitted when it is published.
This was one of the first important publio announce-
ments of the progress being made to establish the Japan
Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company, and
it is to be expected that the process will now proceed smoothly
and with a minimum of delay.
As of possible interest to the Department, the Embassy's
translations of the revision of the regulations for the eleotrio
committee, the official organization of the preparatory bureau
3,4,5/
for eleotrio power control, and the list of members of the
electric power commission are also enclosed.
The

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
The electrio committee, originally established in l932,
studied proposals for legislation to effeot government control
of the electric power industry, but is now revised to act as
an advisory body for the Minister of Communications in relation
to problems concerning the Electric Industry Law. It is com-
posed largely of experts from the Ministry of Communications.
Respectfully yours,
EnclMures:
Joseph C. Grew.
1. Copy in translation of Imperial Ordinance
No. 369.
2. Clipping, "¥780,000,000 of Assets Decided for Invest-
ment in Projected Power Firm" JAPAN TIMES, June 5, 1938 .
3. Copy in translation of revision of the provisions for the
official organization of the Electric Committee.
4. Copy in translation of the official organization of the pre-
paratory bureau for the electric power control.
5. List of members of the electric power commission.
864.
MNS:r

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 3037 of June 21, 1938
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to be
promulgated the ordinance for the official organization of the
Eleotric Power Deliberative Commission.
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal.
May 24th, 1938 (13th year of Showa)
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Mirister of Communications.
IMPERIAL ORDINANCE No. 369.
Official organization of the Electric Power Deli bera-
tive Commission.
Article 1.
The Electric Power Deliberative Commission shall be
under the supervision of the Minister of Communications, and,
in response to his questioning, shall investigate and discuss
provisional plans for the generation and transmission of
electric power, electric rates, and other important matters
conoerning the generation and transmission of the electric
power under governmental control.
The Commission may make suggestions concerning the matters
mentioned in the preceding paragraph to all ministers con-
cerned.
Article 2.
The Commission shall be organized with one chairman and
not more than twenty-five members.
If it should be necessary in order to investigate and
disouss special matters, temporary commission members may be
appointed.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Article 3.
The Minister of Communications shall be the chairman
of the commission.
The members and special members of the commission shall
be appointed by the cabinet upon the nomination of the
Minister of Communications from among persons of the following
qualifications:
1. Higher civil service officers from interested
government offices.
2. Persons of learning and experience.
The term of membership of the commission members appointed
under the second classification of the preceding paragraph
shall be three years. owever, this shall not prevent their
dismissal at any time for special reasons.
Article 4.
The chairman shall preside over the affairs of the
commission.
In the absence of the chairman a member appointed by the
Minister of Communications shall act in place of the chairman.
Article 5.
Executive Secretaries for the Deliberative Commission
shall be appointed by the cabinet on the nomination of the
Minister of Communications.
The executive secretariat under the orders of the
chairman shall manage the general affairs.
Article 6.
Clerks shall be appointed for the Deliberative Com-
mission by the Minister of Communications. The clerks shall
carry out the general affairs under the orders of the proper
authorities.
Supplementary Regulation.
The ordinance shall be enforoed from the date of its
promulgation.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
o.3037
dated June21,1938.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Sunday, June 5, 1938.
Y780,000,000 Of Assets
Decided For Investment
In Projected Power Firm
Sum For Existing Electric Companies Is Set On Basis
Of Book Value As Of April 1, 1938
By Probing Commission
The existing clectric power com- pulated by the Electric Power In-
panies in Japan will be reguired to vestigation Commission are as fol-
invest some y?so,o00,000 of their as-
lows:
sets in the proposed Nippon Electrle
1. Transmission facilities:
Power Generation and Transmission
(1) Transmission facilities with
Company, on the basis of the book
the voltage of more than 100,000.
value as of on April 1, 1as, aud the
(2) Tranamission facilities with
latter company will be able to con-
the voltage-between 50,000 and 100-
trol approximately s0 per cent or the
b00. falling under the following three
tota! hydraulic clectrdc power and 83
per cent of thermal electrto power
categories;
throughout Japan Proper, according
(a) Matn transmission lines be-
to the limit of investments by pri-
tween the water power generation
vate clectric companies formalty fx-
stations and the principal consum-
ed by the Electric Power Investiga-
ing areas, and which considered
tion Comm'ssion at its first géneràl
approprlate to be connected with
meeting held at the Industrial Club,
other transmission systems for the
Maruneuchi, Saturday.
combined operation.
In asking an approval to the pró-
(b) Les which have supply or
pos tion submitted by the Communi-
demand relations with other elec
cations oflicials to the meeting re-
tric enterprises at either end.
garding the maximum limit of fxed
(c) Parallel lines which can be
assets of the existing electrio com-
consolidated for betterment of con-
panies which are to be invested in
diétons of électric current.
the new company, Ryutaro Nagai,
(3) Lines connecting transmismion
Minister of Communicatons. stated
that the Government wished to set
er thermal power generation plants
up the dimit of investmentm in-kind
which are te he taken over.
promptly. so that it may be able to
2. Transformers:
appraise assets of the private com-
(1) Transtormers connecting with
panies on the basis of such imit.
and also to make necesmary prepera-
tions for the cstablishment of the
mum voltage of 100,000 or more.
proposed semi-governmental. power
company within the limited period
of one year hence.
Following the request by the Com-
or aupply power to, electri
munications Minister, the
tions on the Administration's pro-
lines under (3)
position and approved it without
amendment. It is understood that
the Communications Ministry will
3. Thermal power facilttles:
fssue on or about June 16, orders
requiring all the existing electric
10,000 k.w.
power companies to invest their as-
sets in the proposed company.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 3 to despatoh
No. 3037 of June 21, 1938
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
We grant Imperial sanotion to and hereby order to be
promulgated a revision of the provisions for the offioial
organization of the Electric Committee.
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal.
May 24, 1938 (13th year of Showa)
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nogai
Minister of Communications.
IMPERIAL ORDINANCE No. 368.
The following revision is made in the provisions for the
official organization of the electric comnittee.
Numbers 4 to 6 of Article 1 shall be revised as follows:
4. Important matters which under the Electric Industry
Law or orders issued in conformance with this law are to be
decided by the Minister of Communications.
5. Other important matters in connection with the
enforcement of the Electric Industry Law.
The words "Important matters in connection with the elec-
trical industry" in Article 2 shall be revised to read "the
items listed in the foregoing paragraph".
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATION.
This ordinance shall be effective from the date of its
promulgation.
Reference:
An excerpt from Imperial Ordinance No. 355, official
organization of the electric committee, promulgated on
November 21, 1932.
Articlo

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Article l.
The electric committee shall be under the supervision of
the Minister of Communications, and in response to questions
posed by him shall investigate and deliberate on the following
items:
4. Matters connected with provisional plans regarding
eleotrio generation or transmission which plans should become
the basis for control of the electrical industry.
5. Important matters which are to be decided by the
Minister of Communications under laws and ordinances con-
cerning electrical enterprises.
6. Other important matters concerning the electrical
enterprises.
Article 2.
The committee may make suggestions concerning important
matters in relation to the electrical industry to the Minister
of Comunications.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to despatoh No.
3037 of June 21, 1938 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
"We grant Imperial sanotion to, and hereby order to
be promulgated, the official organization of the
Preparatory Bureau for Eleotrio Power Control."
Imperial Sign Manual and Privy Seal.
May 5, 1938.
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Minister for Communications.
Imperial Ordinance No. 320.
The Official Organization of the Preparatory
Bureau for Electric Power Control.
Article l. The preparatory bureau for electric power
control shall be under the superintendence of the
Minister of Communications, and shall carry out affairs
relating to the preparation ior governmental control of
eleotrio power.
Article 2. The following officials shall be appointed to
the preparatory bureau for electric power control.
Director - an official of Chokunin-rank
Assistant-director - 1, an official of Chokunin-rank
Seoretaries - 2 full-time, officials of Sonin-rank
Administrative officials - 8 full-time, officials of Sonin-
rank.
Engineers - 22 full-time, officials of Sonin-rank, one of
whom may be of Chokunin-rank.
Clerks - 27 full-time, officials of Hannin-rank
Assistant-engineers - 64 full-time, officials of Hannin-rank
Article

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Artiole 3. Not more than fifteen councillors shall be
appointed to the preparatory bureau for electrio
power control, and shall participate in the affairs of
the bureau.
Councillors shall be appointed, upon the nomination
of the Minister of Communications, by the cabinet from
among officials of Chokunin-rank from various govern-
ment offices concerned or from persons of learning and
experience.
Councillors shall be treated as officials of Cho-
kunin-rank, but those who possess permanent offices,
shall be treated in accordance with the treatment
proper to their permanent offices.
Article 4. The office of the director shall be held concur-
rently by an official of Chokunin-rank in the Ministry
of Communications.
The Director shall, under the supervision of the
Minister of Communications, preside over the affairs of
the Bureau, snd shall supervise other officials of the
Bureau.
Article 5. The Assistant-director shall assist the director,
and shall manage the affairs of the Bureau.
Artiole 6. Secretaries and administrative officials shall
carry out the affairs of the bureau under the orders
of the higher officials.
Article 7. Chief-engineers shall supervise teohnical matters
in accordance with the orders of higher officials.
Article 8. Clerks shall perform general duties under the super-
vision of higher officials.
Artiole 9.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
Article 9. Engineers shall perform technical duties under the
supervision of higher officials.
Article lo. The Minister of Communications may order officials
in the Communioations Ministry, electric bureau, to render
assistanoe in connection with the affairs of the prepa-
ratory bureau for Electric Power Control.
Supplementary Regulation.
This ordinance shall be enforoed from the date
of its promulgation.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5 to despatoh no.
3037 of June 21, 1938 from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Members of the Elestric Power Deliberative Commission
Published in the Orrioial Gazette, May 26, 1938.
Masanori Habu, Vice-Minister of Home Affairs.
Sotaro Ishiwatari, Vice Minister of Finance
Hiroya Iino, Vice-llinister of Agriculture and Forestry
Naogai Murase, Vice-Minister of Commerce and Industry
Katsutaro Tashima, Parliamentary Vice-Llinister of Communications
Takeshi Ono, Vice-Minister of Communications
Ken Inugai, rarliamentary Councillor of Communications
Teiji Owada, Director of the Power Superintendence Freparation
Bureau.
Hachisaburo Hirao
Kiyonori Imaida
Viscount Masatoshi Okochi
Count Tadamasa Sakai
Kanao Nanjo
Jukuro Kadono
Motoharu Shibusawa
Sadao Wakamiya
Keikichi Tanomogi
Toyotaro Yuki
Baron Kinmochi Okura
Kenkichi Kagami
Masatsume Ogura
Hisashi Aso
Jiro Masuda
Iohimatsu Takaragi

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. 2.
Special Members of the Electrio Power Deliberative
Commission.
Kazuo Aoki, Director of Planning Bureau
Yoshijiro Umezu, Vice-Minister of War
Isoroku Yamamoto, Vice-Minister of Navy
Keijiro Kiyasu, Vice-Minister of Railway.
Tadaoki Yamamoto.
Secretaries of the Electric Power Deliberative Commission
Takaharu Fujii, Vice-Director of the Power Superintendence
Preparation Bureau.
Kiichi Arita, Secretary of the Power Superintendence
Preparation Bureau.
Katsuzo Ono
- ditto-
Shinzo Koike
-ditto-
Masaru Mori, Engineer of the Power Superintendence Prepara-
tion Bureau.
Saburo Takahashi,
-ditto-
Kenji Kato
-ditto-
Seitaro Goto
-ditto-
Makijiro Ito Engineer in the Department of Communications.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.97)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
BION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 20, 1938
. Tokyo's 3206 of August 24, 1938
transmitting translations by the
bassy of ordinances effecting the
onforcement of the Electric Power
Control Law and Related Laws
The despatch need not be read.
The translations may be useful for
the files.
08.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.90)
A.
15307
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 3206
Tokyo, August 24, 1938
SUBJECT:
GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF THE ELECTRIC INDUSTRY.
1938 SE M  59
NQ RDS
E
R
F0111
InUSA
894.6463/28
For
几
EBC
1D1NG DESK
PILE = C.B.M.
NJ
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my previous despatches
(nos. 2848, Ápr11 1, 1938; 2909, April 30, 1938; and
the electric industry and to forward full translations
F/A
by the Embassy of recent ordinances effecting the pro-
gram outlined by the Government in its basic legislation:
1.
1

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
1/
1. No. 574: date of enforcement of a part of
the Eleotric Power Control Law.
2/
2. No. 575: ordinanoe for the enforcement of
the Eleotric Power Control Law.
3/
3. No. 576: date of application of the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited Law.
4/
4.
No. 577: Ordinance for the enforcement of
the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law.
5/
5. No. 578: date of onforcement of Law No. 78
of l938 pertaining to the Disposition of De-
bentures in connection with the Control of
Electric Power.
6/
6.
No. 579: matters concerning the application
of the Law pertaining to the Disposition of
Debentures in connection with the Control of
Electric Power.
On August 11, 1938, a complete list of the prop-
erties which are to be transferred as an investment in
the new company was published in the Official Gazette.
A summary of this list, omitting the names and detailed
7/ locations of the facilities, is enclosed.
Approximately 7,l00 kilometers of electric power
transmission lines, roughly 79 per cent of the capacity
of the nation's thermal electric generation plants, and
all transforming equipment necessary to the above are
to be turned over to the new company. The Embassy has
been reliably informed that the policy of requiring the
transfer of transmission lines connecting the important
hydro-electric plants with consumption points has ob-
viated the necessity of taking over those plants since
the output must be transmitted over the new company's
lines. It was not so easy to adopt this method of con-
trol in the case of thermal units located in large
industrial

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
industrial areas, and therefore the thermal generation
plants are to be taken over. The new company will in
this way be able to control effectively prices, supply,
and new construction for the entire industry.
Altogether thirty-one companies are required to
transfer a part of their property. The most important
are the five largest in Japan, the Tokyo Electric Light
Company - estimated value of investment, 22 per cent
of the book value of its total fixed assets; Toho
Electric Power Company - estimated value of investment,
10 per cent of the book value of its total fixed assets;
Daido Electric Power Company - estimated value of in-
vestment, 45 per cent of the book value of its fixed
assets; Nihon Electric Power Company - estimated value
of investment, 40 per cent of the total assets; and
the Ujigawa Electric Company - estimated value of in-
vestment, 20 per cent of total assets.
The most difficult problems at the present time
are the preparation by the various companies of business
statements for the last ten years to serve as a basis
for the valuation of the properties which are to be taken
over and the actuel negotiations effecting the transfer.
It was reported in the Japanese press (CHUGAI,
August 18, 19, 20, 1938) that the new company would be
organized on April 1, l939, with a capitalization of
Yen 880,000,000. (¥780,000,000 - property transferred
as an investment, 100,000,000 - publio subscription)
and that the present Communications Minister, Mr. Ryutaro
Nagai is to become the president of the company.
Government

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
Government control of the eleotric industry in
Japan is definitely established and only technical
details need to be arranged before it is put into
actual operation.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1-7 as stated.
864
MWS:mg

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the American Embassy at Tokyo of
Imperial ordinance no. 574, promulgated on August 8, 1938,
and published in the Official Gazette on August 9, 1938.
MWS
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to
be promulgated, the date of enforcement of a nart of the
Electric Power Control Law.
TE TL SIG ULL D PHTVY SEAL.
August 8, 1938
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister.
yutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications.
Imperial ordinance no. 574
Provisions of articles 1 ond 2 of the Electric Power
Control Law shall be effective from August 10, 1938.
Reference:
An excerpt from the Electric Fower Control Law, law
no. 76, promulgated on April 6, 1938:
Article 1. For the purpose of facilitating throughout
the nation an abundance of electric power at low rates,
the Government shall control in accordance with this
law the generation and transmission of electricity. How-
ever, that generation and transmission of electricity which
is exclusively for private use or that which satisfies the
demand of one locality, or that which is specially regu-
lated by Imperial ordinance shall not fall within these
restrictions.
Article 2.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article 2. In the transmission and generation of
electricity which is controlled by this law, according
to the provisions of the Japen Electric Generation and
Transmission Comneny Limited Law, the Japar
Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limitec ihall re-
quire the transmission and generation of electricity
by electric power facilities which have been determined
by Imperiel ordinance.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the Embassy at Tokyo of Imperial ordinance
no. 575 promulgated on August 8 and published in the
Official Gazette on August 9, 1938.
MWS
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to
be promulgated, the ordinance for the enforcement of the
Electric Power Control Law.
TIEY IAL SIG: MANUAL AND PRIVY SEAL
August 8, 1938
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Minister of Communicetions
Imperial ordinance no. 575
ORDINANCE FCR THE ENFORCEME T OF
THE ELECTRIC POWER CONTROL LAW.
Article l. That generation or transmission of
electricity which is not to be controlled by the Gov-
ernment in accordance with the provisions of the pro-
visory clause of article l of the Electric Power
Control Law shall include the generation or trans-
mission of electricity other than that from facilities
belonging to electric power systems with main trans-
mission lines having a maximum voltage of 40,000 or
more volts, or from facilities which, in their opera-
tions, are closely connected with such electric power
systems.
Article

=== Page 111 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Article 2. Those electric power facilities which
shall be made available for the generation and trans-
mission of electricity, in accordance with the pro-
visions of article 2 of the Electric Power Control
Law, under the control of the Electric Generation and
Transmission Conpany Limited shall be those which fall
under any one of the following classifications. The
facilities stipulated in the provisions of article 30
of the Electric Industry Law, however, and those which
are, under special circumstances, excented by the
Minister of Communications, shall not be included.
1.
Electric generation facilities.
(1) Hydraulic electric generaticn facilities
with production capacity of more than
5,000 k.w.
(2) Thermal electric generation facilities
with generation capacity of more than
10,000 k.w.
2.
Electric transmission facilities.
(1) Those which are operated at a maximum
voltage of not less than 100,000.
(2) Electric transmission facilities which
are operated at a maximum voltage between
40,000 and 100,000, and which fall under
one of the following classifications:
a. Main transmission lines between the
electric power generation stations
and principal consuming areas, and
with which it is considered desirable
to effeot a connection with other
transmission systems for combined
operation.
b.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
b. Those which are used mainly for the
supply and demand of electric power
among electric enterprises.
c. Those which because they parallel
other transmission lines using maxi-
mum voltage of not less than 40,000
can by combined operation improve
electric power current.
(3) Transmission lines of the generation
facilities of no. 1, or those mutually
connecting transmission facilities of
classifications (1) or (2).
(4) Those lines which are subordinate to the
transmission facilities of (1), (2), and
(3), and are essential for the control of
the relations of supply and demand of
electric power.
3. Transformers.
(1) Those which are connected with the trans-
mission facilities of (1) of the preced-
ing category.
(2)
Those which are connected with the trans-
mission facilities of (2), (3), and (4)
of the preceding category, and which are .
essential for a connection between trans-
mission facilities or for the control of
the relations of demand and supply of
electric power.
Supplementary Regulations.
This ordinance shall be effective from the date of
application of the provisions of article 1 and article
2

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
2 of the Electric Power Control Law.
Hydraulic electric generation facilities with a
capacity of more than 5,0oo k.w. which now exist, or
which are under construction, at the time of the
application of this ordinance shall be excluded from
the electric power facilities stipulated by the main
clause of article 2.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure no. 3 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the Embassy at Tokyo of Imperial
ordinance no. 576 promulgated on August 8 and published
in the Official Gazette on August 9, 1938.
MWS
e grant Imperi 1 s netion, eno h reby order to
be promulgated, the dete of applicution of the Japan
Electric Generation ane Trunsmission Company Limited
Law.
IPI.L TG LU.L  RIVY SEL
august 8, 1938
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Negai
Minister of Communications
Seihin Ikeda
Minister of Finance
Imperial ordinance no. 576.
The Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited Law shall be enforced from August 10, 1938.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the Embassy at Tokyo of Imperial ordinance
no. 577 promulgated on August 8 and published in the
Official Gazette on August 9, 1938.
MWS
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to
be promulgated, the ordinance concerning the application
of the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law.
I RIAL SIGN NUAL .D RIVY SEAL
August 8, 1938
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications
Nobumasa Suetsugu
Minister of Home Affairs
Seihin Ikeda
Minister of Finance
Imperial ordinance no. 577.
ORDINANCE FOR THE ENFORCEMENT CF THE JAPAN ELECTRIC
GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION COMPANY LIMITED LAW.
Article 1. Persons who wish to request, in ac-
cordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, article
15 of the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law, the purchase of their shares must
present to the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Company Limited an application stating the number of
shares and the serial number of each certificate to-
gether with the certificates.
When an applicant mentioned in the preceding para-
graph agrees to accept debentures in payment for his
shares in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3, article 15 of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law, he must present to
the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited a written document mentioning such an agreement.
Article 2. Persons who have by making the appli-
cation of paragraph 1 of the preceding article lost
the right of shareholders shall be paid, together with
the purchase price, interest for the days from the
date on which the application was made to the day pre-
ceding the day of the payment of purchase price (when
the delivery of debentures is to be made, the date of
delivery as stated in article 4).
Article 3. When the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company Limited wishes to issue de-
bentures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3, article 15 of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law, it must apply for
the approval of the Minister of Finance and the Minister
of Communications mentioning the following matters.
1. reasons for the delivery of debentures;
2. the total amount of debentures and the face
value of each debenture;
3. rate of interest on debentures;
4.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4. method and term of redemption of debentures;
5. method and term of payment of interest.
Article 4. The Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited, upon obtaining the approval
prescribed in the precedins article, must designate the
date and plece of delivery of such debentures and notify
applicants of paragraph 1, article 1 of such date and
place.
The date of delivery of the preceding paragraph
must be within six months from the date on which the
purchase of shares was applied for.
Article 5. The current value of debentures desig-
nated by the provisions of paragraph 3, article 15 of
the Japan Electric Generetion and Transmission Com any
Limited Law shall be determined on the basis of the
average market price of Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited debentures, the payment
of which is guaranteed by the government, for six months
preceding the date of approval of the issuance of such
debentures. hen there is no average quotation available
for six months, but there is an average quotation for a
shorter period of time, it will be based on such a quo-
are
tation. When such average quotations/not avsilable, the
ourrent value of these debentures shall be determined
by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Communica-
tions, taking into consideration the market prices of
other debentures of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited or of the debentures of
similar companies.
Article

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Article 6. The provisions of article 199, article
200, no. 2, and art1cle 203 of the Commercial Code
shall not be anplied to debentures issued in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3, article 15 of the
Japan Electric Generation end Transmission Co pany
Limited Law.
Article 7. The Javan £lectric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited must, within two weeks
from the date of issuance of debentures of the pre-
ceding article, register at the locutions of main and
branch offices the items listed in paragraph 1, ar-
ticle 204, no. 3 of the Commercial Code.
A document certifying the total emount of deben-
tures in question must be appended to the application
for registration of the preceding paragraph in place
of the document mentioned in paregranh 2, nos. 2
through 5, article 191 of the Code of Procedure of
non-contentious matters.
Any change made in connection with the matters
registered in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 1 must be registered within two weeks at the
locations of main and branch offices.
Article 8. The Minister of Communications must
consult, in the instance of no. 1, with the Minister
of Home Affairs and the Minister of Finance, and in
the case of no. 2, with the Minister of Home Affairs.
No. 1. When the investment of electric power
facilities and allied facilities owned
by public bodies is to be required in
accordance with the provisions of article
4 of the Japan Electrio Generation and
Transmission

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Transmission Company Limited Law.
No. 2. When, in order to carry out orders as
provided for by the provisions of para-
graph 1, article 24, of the Japan Eleo-
tric Generation and Transmission Company
Limited Law for construction or change of
electric power or allied facilities, the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited must obtain nermission for
the use of rivers and streams, lakes, or
ponds.
Article 9. When the Minister of Communications
orders the construction or change of electric power or
allied facilities as prescribed in paragraph l, article
24 of the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited Law, he shall, at the same time, report
those orders to Government offices which carry on the
work of paragraph 2 of the same article.
Article 10. When a decision is to be made, in
accordance with the provisions of article 27 of the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company Li-
mited Law, concerning the compensation prescribed in
article 25 of the same law, if the compensation in
question is in regard to the use of rivers and streams,
lakes, or ponds, the competent ministers shall be the
Minister of Communications and the Minister of Home
Affairs.
Supplementary Regulations
This ordinance shall be effective from the date
of application of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 5 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the Embassy at Tokyo of Imperial
ordinance no. 578 promulgated on August 8, and
published in the Ofricial Gazette on August 9, 1938.
MWS
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order
to be promulgated, the date of enforcement of Law No.
78 of 1938 pertaining to the Disposition of Debentures
in connection with the Control of Electric Power.
IMPERIAL SIGN MNUAL AD PRIVY SEAL
August 8, 1938
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Ryutaro Nagai
Minister of Communications
Seihin Ikeda
Minister of Finance
Imperial ordinance no. 578
Law No. 78 of 1938 shall be enforced from August
10, 1938.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 6 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation by the Embassy at Tokyo of Imperial ordinance
no. 579 promulgated on August 8 and published in the
Official Gazette on August 9, l938.
MWS:
We grant Imperial sanction to, and hereby order to
be promulgated, matters concernins the applic tion of
the Law pertaining to the Disposition of Debentures in
connection with the Control of Electric Fower.
LRIAL SIGNLL  TRIVY SEAL
August 8, 1938
Frince Funimaro Konoe
Prime Minister
Suehiko shiono
Minister of Justice
Ryutaro Nogai
Minister of Comaunications
Seihin Ikeda
Minister of Finance
Imperial ordinance no. 579.
Article 1. Collateral securities to be deposited
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, article
2 of Law No. 78 of 1938 shall be national bonds or shares
or debentures of the Japan Electric Generation and Trans-
mission Company Limited.
Other negotiable instruments not mentioned in the
previous paragraph, when approved by the Japan Electric
Generation

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Generation and Transmission Company Limited, may be
deposited as collateral.
Article 2. The number and security value of ne-
gotiable instruments deposited in accordance with
paragraph 1, article 2 of Law No. 78 of 1938 and the
preceding article shall be decided by negotiutions be-
tween the persons concerned. If a conclusion is not
reached at such deliberation, the matter shall be set-
tled by the Minister of Communications.
Conclusions reached as a result of tle above-
mentioned negotiations must be anproved by the Minister
of Communications.
Article 3. Persons who have, in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 1, article 2 of Law No. 78
of 1938, deposited securities may recover a part of
their collateral when the mortgage on the property trans-
ferred as an investment and belonging to a factory syn-
dicate has been decreased, or when a part of invested
property has with the consent of the mortgagee been
withdrawn from the factory syndicate.
The provisions of the preceding article shall be
applied mutatis mutandis to those securities which are
to be recovered in this instence.
Article 4. In regard to the deposit prescribed in
paragraph 1, article 2 of Law No. 78 of 1938, the
Minister of Justice may, under special circumstances,
require suitable bank or trust companies to effect the
fiduoiary business in accordance with the provisions
of artiole 1 of the Deposit Law.
In

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
In the instance of the preceding paragraph,
necessary matters of procedure shall be determined
by the Minister of Justice.
Article 5. When the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Conpany and the inv stors described
in article 2, paragraph 1 of Law No. 78 of 1938
(Law Relating to the Disposition of Debentures in con-
nection with the Control of Electric Power) receive a
notice from the Minister of Communications in accordance
with article 4, paragraph 2 of the law, they shall, by
the date of succession to the obligation as specified
by the notice of the Linister, negotiate an agreement
regarding necessary matters of the succession to the
obligation to pay principal and interest of the deben-
tures with the companies entrusted with the debentures.
The agreement of the preceding paragraph shall be
effected by a document signed by the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company,investors concerned,
and the representative of the trust company as mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
On the date of succession as prescribed in paragraph
2, article 4 of Law No. 78 of 1938, the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited, investors
concerned, and the trust company of paragraph 1 shall,
without delay, make a public announcement that the lia-
bility for the payment of interest and principal of
debentures has been taken over. Known shareholders
and persons who have guaranteed the total amount of the
debentures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1, article 29 of the Trust Law pertaining to Secured
Debentures

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Debentures, shall be notified individually.
When the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company has succeeded to the liability to pay interest
and principal of debentures, it shall register this
fact in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1,
article 34 of the Trust Law pertainin to Secured De-
bentures. A document which te:tifies the succession
of debentures and a duplicate of the register book of
the entrusting company must be anpended to the written
application for registration in place of the documents
mentioned in paragraph 2, nos. 2 through 5, article
191 of the Code of Procedure for lon-Contentious Mat-
ters.
Article 6. hen debentures are succeeded to, the
price at which succession is made und the method of
settling in full the prcfit or loss on intereat and
principal payments arisin from fluctuations in market
price of the debentures or foreign exchange rates shall
be determined by negotiations between the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Co pany and the investors
concerned. If an agreement is not reached, the Minister
of Communications shall decide the matter.
Agreements reached in accordance with the provisions
of the preceding paragraph must be auproved by the Minister
of Communications.
Persons not satisfied with the decision (of the
Minister of Communications) prescribed in paragraph 1
may, within one month from the day on which notifica-
tion of the decision was received appeal to an ordinary
court.
Article

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Artiole 7. When the Minister of Communications
is, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1,
artiole 5 of Law No. 78 of 1938, to require the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited
to purchase remainin& electric power equipment and other
allied facilities belonging to a factory syndicate men-
tioned in paragraph 1, article 2 of the same law, he
shall determine the extent of the facilities to be pur-
chased and the date of purchase and shall issue pertinent
orders to the Japan Electric Generation and Transmission
Company Limited and the owners of the facilities.
Article 8. When the Minister of Communications is,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1, article
8 of Law No. 78 of 1938, to require the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company Limited to guarantee
payment of principal and interest of certain debentures,
he shall designate kinds and names of debentures in
question and issue pertinent orders to the company.
The guarantee prescribed in the preceding paragraph
must be made by a written contract signed by the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company Limited and
representatives of the entrusting and entrusted companies
for the debentures in question.
When the contract of the preceding paragraph is made,
each company shall, without delay, make a public announce-
ment of this fact. This must be reported separately to
known shareholders and persons who have guaranteed the
total amount of the debentures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1, article 29 of the Trust Law
portaining to Seoured Debentures.
In

=== Page 126 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-
In the instance presoribed in the preceding para-
graph the entrusting company (when the debenture ledger
the
is kept by the entrusted company,/entrusted company)
must enter matters concerning the contract in the de-
benture ledger and report such fact, by means of a
document signed by directors, to the entrusted company
(when the ledger of debentures is kept by the entrusted
company, the entrusting company) and to the persons
guaranteeing the total amount of the debentures in
accordance with the provisions of aragraph 1, article
29 of the Trust Law pertaining to Secured Debentures.
Persons receiving the document prescribed in the
preceding paragraph shall preserve it by attaching it
to a certified copy of the ledger of debentures.
Article 9. The entrusting company or persons who
succeed to these debentures as prescribed in article 6
of Law No. 78 of 1938 may apply to the Minister of
Finance and the Minister of Communications for the
guarantee prescribed in paragraph 2, article 8 of the
same law by filing an application signed jointly with
the companies entrusted with the debentures.
The guarantee prescribed in the preceding paragraph
shall be effective when the written approval of the
Minister of Finance and the Minister of Communications
is given.
The provisions of paragraphs 3 through 5 shall be
applied mutatis mutandis to instances of the preceding
paragraph.
Article 10. The agreement prescribed in paragraph
1, article 5 and the guarantee prescribed in article 8
and the preceding article shall, as in trust contracts,
be

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
be effective in the interest of all creditors of the
oompany.
The provisions of paragraph 2, article 70, article
71, article 78, paragraph 1, article 82, and article 87
of the Trust Law pertainin to secured Jebentures shall
be anplied mutatis mutandis
to the cuarentee mentioned
in article 8 and in the foregoing article.
The provisi ns of article 0, article 21, and
article 31 of the Trust Low pert inin to ccur-d De-
bentures shall be a plied mut tis
mutendis to the
written agreement of paragraph 2, article 5, the written
contract of paragraph 2, article 8, and vritten arproval
of paragraph 2 of the preceding article.
Article 1l. hen the Minister of Communications
and the Minister of Finunce consider it desirable to
require the Japan Electric Ceneration and Transmission
Company Limited to tate ovor, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1, article 4 of Law 78 of 1938,
the liability for the peyment of interest and principal
of debentures, or to guarantee peyments in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1, article 8 of the
same law, they shall consult together.
Supplementary Regulations
This ordinance shall be effective from the date
of enforcem nt of Law No. 78 of 1938.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure no. 7 to despatch
no. 3206 of August 24, 1938,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Electrio power and allied facilities to be transferred
as an investment to the Japan Electrio Generation and
Transmission Company.
Source: Official Gazette dated August 1l, 1938.
Investment made in accordance with the provisions
of artiole 5 of the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmission Company Limited Law.
TRANSMISSION FACILITIES:
Maximum voltage
Number
Owner
(in units of
of lines
1000 volts)
(1) Tokyo Electric Light Company Ltd. 154
15
(Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha)
154-110
1
115
1
110
4
66
26
33
1
11
2
6.6
12
(2) Keihin Electric Power Co. Ltd.
154
1
(Keihin Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
(3) Kinugawa Hydroeleotrio Co. Ltd.
66
3
(Kinugawa Suiryoku Denki
Kabushiki Kaisha)
22
1
11
2
(4) Daido Electrio Power Co. Ltd.
154
7
(Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
77
33
55
3
22
6
11
7
(5) Central Electric Co. Ltd.
77
2
(Chuo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
(6) Japan Electrio Power Co. Ltd.
154
17
(Nihon Denryoku Kabushiki
Kaisha)
77
12
66
3
22
2
(7)

=== Page 129 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Owner
Maximum voltage Number
(in units of
of lines
1000 volts)
(7) Yahagi Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
154
2
(Yahagi Suiryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
77
2
(8) Toho Eleotrio Power Co. Ltd.
154
1
(Toho Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
110
2
77
9
66
3
55
1
(9) Showa Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Showa Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
154
2
77
2
(10) Kansai Mutual Thermal Power
Generating Co. Ltd.
77
2
(Kansai Kyoko Karyoku Hatsuden
Kabushiki Kaisha)
(1l) Ujigawa Electric Co. Ltd.
77
10
(Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
55
9
22
5
11
1
(12) Nankai Railway Co. Ltd.
(Nankai Tetsudo Kabushiki Kaisha)
55
2
(13) Sanyo Central Hydroelectrio Co. Ltd.
(Sanyo Chuo Suiden Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
10
22
2
(14) Hiroshima Electric Co. Ltd.
(Hiroshima Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
110
5
66
2
55
4
22
1
(15) Izumo Electrio Co. Ltd.
(Izumo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
1
(16) Yamaguchi Prefecture
110
1
44
1
(17) Kochi Prefeoture
66
4
44
4
(18)

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Owner
Maximum voltage
Number
(in units of
of lines
1000 volts)
(18) Iyo Railway Eleotrio Co. Ltd.
110
1
(Iyo Tetsudo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
5
33
2
(19) Shikoku Central Electrio Power Co. Ltd.
(Shikoku Chuo Denryoku
Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
(20) Shikoku Hydroeleotric Co. Ltd.
(Shikoku Suiryoku Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha)
66
1
(21) Kyushu Eleotric Railway Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Denki-Kido Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
5
22
4
(22) Kyushu Hydroelectric Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Suiryoku Denki Kabushiki
66
1
Kaisha)
22
1
(23) Kyushu Eleotric Transmission Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Soden Kabushiki Kaisha)
110
J.
66
4
22
1
(24) Kyushu Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
110
2
66
4
(25) Kumamoto Eleotric Co. Ltd.
(Kumamoto Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
66
2

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
TRANSFORMING FACILITIES:
Number of transforming
Owner
plants invested
(1) Tokyo Electrio Light Co. Ltd.
(Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha)
26
(2) Keihin Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Keihin Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(3) Kinugawa Hydroelectric Co. Ltd.
(Kinugawa Suiryoku Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha)
2
(4) Daido Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
18
(5) Nihon Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Nihon Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
9
(6) Yahagi Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
(Yahagi Suiryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(7) Toho Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Toho Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
5
(8) Showa Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Showa Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(9) Ujigawa Electric Company Ltd.
(Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
7
(10) Sanyo Central Hydroelectric Co. Ltd.
(Sanyo Chuo Suiden Kabushiki Kaisha)
3
(11) Hiroshima Electric Co. Ltd.
(Hiroshima Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
5
(12) Yamaguchi Prefecture
2
(13) Iyo Railway Electric Co. Ltd.
(Iyo Tetsudo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(14) Kochi Prefecture
2
(15) Kyushu Electric Railway Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Denki Kido Kabushiki Kai sha)
2
(16) Kyushu Hydroelectric Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Suiryoku Denki Kabushiki Kai sha)
(17) Kyushu Electrio Transmission Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Soden Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(18) Kyushu Eleotric Power Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
3
(19) Kumamoto Eleotrio Co. Ltd.
(Kumamoto Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
1

=== Page 132 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
RATING FACILITIES:
Owner
Number of generating
plants invested
(1) Kinugawa Hydroeleotric Co. Ltd.
(Kinugawa Suiryoku Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha)
1
(2) Tokyo Electric Light Co. Ltd.
(Tokyo Dento Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(3) Nihon Eleotric Power Co. Ltd.
(Nihon Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
3
(4) Yahagi Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
(Yahagi Suiryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(5) Toho Electrio Power Co. Ltd.
(Toho Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(6) Nankai Railway Co. Ltd.
(Nankai Tetsudo Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(7) City of Osaka
1
(8) Ujigawa Electric Co. Ltd
2
(Ujigawa Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
(9) Daido Electric Power Co. Ltd.
(Daido Denryoku Kabushiki Kaisha)
4
(10) Hanshin Electric Railway Co. Ltd.
(Hanshin Denki Tetsudo Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(11) City of Kobe
1
(12) Imazu Electric Generation Co. Ltd.
(Imazu Hatsuden Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(13) Kansai Mutual Thermal Electric Generation
Co. Ltd. (Kansai Kyodo Karyoku Hatsuden
Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(14) Chugoku Godo Electric Co. Ltd.
(Chugoku Godo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(15) Sanyo Central Hydroelectric Co. Ltd.
(Sanyo Chuo Suiden Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(16) Izumo Electric Co. Ltd.
(Izumo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(17) Hiroshima Electric Co. Ltd.
(Hiroshima Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(18) Yamaguchi Prefecture
2
(19) Iyo Railway Electric Co. Ltd.
(Iyo Tetsudo Denki Kabushiki Kaisha)
1
(20) Kyushu Electric Railway Co. Ltd.
(Kyushu Denki Kido Kabushiki Kaisha)
2
(21) Seibu Kyodo Thermal Electric Generation
Co. Ltd. (Seibu Kyodo Karyoku Hatsuden
1
Kabushiki Kaisha)
