894.6461 Engineering., Power., Japan, Water., November 25, 1940 - November 30, 1943 (File 1405)
ID: 894.6461-1405   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6461-engineering-power-japan-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File

DATE: November 25, 1940
1940 NOV 27 PM 3 01

SUBJECT: Desire of Mitsui and Company, Limited, to obtain the services of The J. G. White Engineering Corporation

PARTICIPANTS: Mr. Gano Dunn, President, The J. G. White Engineering Corporation
Mr. Ballantine
Mr. Mackay

COPIES TO:

Mr. Gano Dunn, President of The J. G. White Engineering Corporation, called at his request and in the absence of Mr. Hamilton was received by Mr. Mackay. Upon ascertaining that the subject to be discussed related to Japan Mr. Mackay suggested, and Mr. Dunn promptly approved, the presence of Mr. Ballantine.

Mr. Dunn informed Mr. Ballantine and Mr. Mackay to the effect that The J. G. White Engineering Corporation recently received from Mitsui and Company, Limited, a letter requesting the corporation's assistance in planning and in erecting in Japan certain hydraulic and steam power plants; that, as a result of his experience as a member of the National Defense Commission, he (Mr. Dunn) had arrived at the

894.6461/1
PS/FF

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

at the opinion that no steps should be taken which would further Japan's present policies; and that unless the Department perceived objection he intended to reply to Mitsui's inquiry by means of a brief but polite statement to the effect that the J. G. White Engineering Corporation is at present so completely engaged in activities relating to the national defense of the United States that it finds it impracticable to undertake the work suggested by Mitsui and Company, Limited.

Following a brief discussion of the matter, Mr. Ballantine and Mr. Mackay expressed, as an indication of their personal views on the matter, approval of the course which Mr. Dunn had elected to pursue and their appreciation of the attitude displayed by Mr. Dunn in refusing, in the light of the existing situation, to accord to Japanese interests special facilities. Mr. Dunn seemed pleased and wholly satisfied with this response to his inquiry.

Mr. Ballantine and Mr. Mackay each thanked Mr. Dunn for his courtesy and cooperation in bringing the subject under discussion to the attention of the Department.

RE:Mackay:MHP/OJL

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

November 30, 1943

Reference underlying copy of the detailed report of the Toho Electric Power Company, Limited, as of April 30, 1923, sent to Mr. Hornbeck by Mr. J. R. Thomas as of possible interest.

Inquiry was made of an officer of MIS as to whether MIS would find this publication helpful. The officer replied that MIS had no need of the volume. An inquiry was also made of Mr. Halleck Butts of OEW, who replied that the publication under reference was gotten out as a preliminary to a request for a loan in the United States; that copies were filed in the United States; that he has no interest in the publication; and that he cannot suggest anyone who might be interested in the report.

FILED
OCT 1943

FE: Saltsbury: ALM
