894.03 Japan, Legislative Branch Of Government., March 15, 1948 - November 18, 1949 (File 1787)
ID: 894.03-1787   Pages: 78   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.03-japan-legislative-branch-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
fils
THEAST CGASIAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
1948
LE
ARIMENT OF STATE
No. 159
Tokyo, March 15, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
7.6
1.36
Subject: Report of the United States Library
Mission to Japan.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to this Mission's despatch No. 141 of March 3,
14.4
1948 and to forward herewith five copies of the report
of the United States Library Mission to advise on the
894.03/3-1548
establishment of the National Diet Library of Japan.
The report was submitted to the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers February 8, 1948 and has been issued
in mimeographed form by the Civil Information and
Lducation Section of this Headquarters.
C
Enclosure:
Five copies of heport
010
of the United States
Library Mission to Japan,
February 8, 1948.
Original and ozal1d to the Department.
124.2
JDEdwards:cs
FILED
1948
DO2
UNCLASSIFIED
3

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure to despenteh o. 159
" dated marcle 1 194 8 from thu affice
of iln trrted statiePaltical
Vidricser far Japan Trhays entitled
"Repart of tle tiitele States
Lilhary Aresion to Japan"
REPORT
OF THE
UNITED ST \TES LIBRARY MISSION
To Advise on the Establishment of the
National Diet Library of Japan
Submitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
February 2, 1948
Tokyo
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Civil Information and Education Scction
Education Division
1948

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWTRS
OFFICE OF THE SUPREHE COMMANDR
APO 500
22 February 1948
The report and recommendations submitted to me by
the United States Library Mission to Japan will be of
inestimable value to the Japanese people in their efforts
to establish a National Library Service. It should be a
matter of great satisfaction to all that a National Diet
Library Law was passed by unanimous vote of both Houses
of the Diet before the Library Iission returned to the
United States.
The report will he of continuing assistence as de-
tailed plans for a great national library service are
developed. The members of the Library Mission have made
a substantial contribution toward the establishment of a
far-reaching and enlightened library program.
/s/ Douglas MacArthur
DOUGLASVaCARTHUR

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
LETTER OF TRAI SMITTAL
2 February 1948
General Douglas MacArthur,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Sir:
The United States Library Mission, vhich came
to Japan at your request to advisf on the establish-
ment of the National Diet Library, h's the honor to
submit its report to you herewith.
Respectfully vours,
Charles H. Brown
Verner W. Clapp, Chairman

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
Page
Letter of Transmittal.
Introduction.
1
A National Librury Scrvice for Jap in..
5
Objeetives and Funetions..
7
Ill. Organization....
8
IV.
Administration.
12
V.
The Collrctions.
22
VJ.
The Building.
26
VII. Budget and Priorities.
31
VIII. Education for Libr rinship.
33
Appendices -
The National Diat Library Law....
The National Dit Iibrary Building
Commissicn Law....
41
Suggested Organiz tion Chart for the
National Di t Library.
42

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
INTROUUCTION
Both Houses of the National Diet of Japan have had their
separate libraries since 1890. But because the Diet, prior
to 1946, had no final responsibilities, 1ts requirements for
exact and extensive information were correspondingly small.
Even the wording of the legislation upon which it deliberated
was prepared by a bill-drafting burcau within the Cabinet.
Consequently, the Diet libraries never developed either the
collections or the services which might have made them vital
adjuncts of genuinely responsible legislative activity.
In 1946 the basic situation changed. The Diet became,
under the new Constitution. the highest organ of power in the
state, possessed of respo.sibilities and confronted with prob-
lems of greatest magnitu.e. To deal with these problems and
to discharge these responsibilities it needed every possible
assistance, including the fact-finding assistance which can be
secured only through a modern library service.
This need vas reflected in the Diet Law of March 19,
1947, which provided (in Article 130) that "a Diet Library
shali be attached to the Diet in order to help members of the
Diet conduct their investigations and researches." The same
law provided that a Standing Committee for Library Management
should be constituted in each House (Article 42), and further
required that copies of the publications of the Cabinet and
government departments should be supplied to the Diet Library
(Article lo5). The law went one step further. Perceiving
that a library which would he adequate to its own service
would also have potentialities of still wider usefulness, the
Diet wrote into the law the provision (Article 130) that "the
use of the Diet Library may be extended to the general public".
These general provisions f the Diet Law were developed in
greater detail in the Diet Library Law which was enacted on
March 28, 1947. But this law, like the Diet Law itself, left
many details of organization and function still to be worked
out.
Inquiries and plans looking to the establishment of the
new library were carried on through 1947 by the responsible
Committees of the Diet in conjunction with other interested
groups and bodies. These led to a reccgnition of the basic
fact that Japan lacks the essential bibliographic services
which are provided by a modern national library, and that the
Diet Library, no matter how well equipped in itself, could
never hope to functior with full effectiveness as long as such
services are lacking. The proposal Was in consequence very
naturally advanced that the Diet Library should itself accept
responsibility for performing these national services.
-1-

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
The problem confronting t e Diet Committees became, in
the light of these considerations, one of establishing not
merely a Diet Library, but a National Diet Library. In these
circumstances the responsible office"s of the Diet addressed
the following letter to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers:
July 12, 1947
General Douglas MacArthur
Supreme Commander for Allied Powers
G.H.Q.
Your Excelleney:
We beg to in or.. you that by your helpful
suggestions and kind encouragement we are at-
tempting to lay the fcundations fo" a great
National Diet Library. Our problems are mani-
fold, not only in connection with architectur-
al and construction plans, but also as regards
to the functions of this projected new nation-
al agency. In order to plan carefully and
thoroughly for the National Diet Library of the
future, it is our earnest hope that you will
lend us the assistance by inviting scme Ameri-
can experts to advise us during the initial
stages of planning.
Faithfully vours,
Komakichi Hatsuoka,
Speaker,
House of epresentativcs
Tsuneo Matsudaira,
President,
House of Councillors
Kazu Nakamura,
Chairman, Standing Committee
for Library Management,
House of Representatives
Goro Hani,
Chairman, Standing Committee
for Library Management,
House of Councillors.
Pursuant to this request, the United States Iibrary
Mission was formed and a rived in Tokvo on December 14, 1947.
It found that much of the work neccssary to a solution of the
-2-

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
various problems.connected with the establishment of the
National Diet Library had already been done by the Diet
Committees, by other interested groups and bodies, and
by the staff of the Civil Information and Education Sec-
tion of SCAP.. It found, too, that in the Government Sec-
tion of SCAP the question of the establishment of a Nat-
ional Diet Library had already been given attention as a
problem in public administration intimately connected with
the development of democratic institutions in Japan.
The procedure of the Mission was, therefore, to
enter into immediato exchanges of views with the Stand-
ing Committees on Library Management and with the Presid-
ing Officers of thr two Houses of the National Diet. In
addition to numerous informal meetings it held six formal
sessions with the representatives of the Standing Commit-
tees between Docember 17, 1947, and January 6, 1948. At
these meetings it presented concretc proposals in written
form. These proposals were immediateiy translated and
mimeographed and discussed by the Committees, severally
and jointly, in the intorvening days. The results of the
discussions were then made the subject of subsequent'ses-
sions with the Mission.
An obvious advantag: of this procedure was that points
of agreement between the Standing Committees and the Mis-
sion could be immediately noted, while alternitive views
could be as immediately explored. A further and import-
ant advantage was that problems which cmerged during.the
discussions could be reforred concurrently, cither by the
Committees or the Mission, or by both, to responsible of-
ficers in the Japanesc Government or in SCAP. Such problems
were of course numcrcus. They involved questions of appoint-
ment, tenure, salary and oth r aspects of civil service ad-
ministration; relations betw en the legislative and the exec-
utive and judicial branches of the National Government; re-
lations betwcen the national and the local government; and
the like. The final precis of the discussions embodies, in
consequence of this proccdure, the points of view of many
officers both in the Japanese government and in the military
government。
Upon complction of this phase of its work the Mission
took three wecks 1rave of absince from the Theatre, January
8-28, 1948, to attond to othor dutirs. Upon its return a
bill had béen drafted in the trrms of the previous discus-
sions, and was under consideration by the Standing Committees
in consultation with reprcsentativ s of the Ministries, the
Judiciary, and with other officers of the Diet. The Mission
discussed'the final draft of thc bill not only with the
Library Committees of the Houscs, but vith thcir Management
Committecs and th: Legislative Committee and with various
-3

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
officers of SCAr. In its final form this bill was introduced
into both Houscs of the Diet on Februarv 4, 1948, and was
passed by unanimous votes on he samc day. At the same time a
supplementary bill was enacted, providing for the establish-
ment of a National Diet Library Building Commission.
In the following pages there arc presented, first, a
statement of the services which an adequate national library
may be expected. to rcnder to Japan; second, a summary of the
proposals submitted by th Mission to th Diet Committees as
modified in the discussions with thcm; and finally, the text
of the National Diet Library Laws as enacted on February 4,
1948.
In conclusion the Mission rust repeat that its own role
in this progrcssion of  v nts has been merely catalytic--it
has only assisted in th formulation of ideas and purposes
which existed before its arrival in Japan. That it could per-
form its task with s atisfaction and rapidity was due in the
first place to the onthusiasm and  nergy of the Library Com-
mittees; to the effective symp thy of the principal officers
of the Diet; to the compl to coop ration of all other offici-
als whose aid was sought, and to the support or many unoffici-
al bodies and persons. But above all, thc successful conclu-
sion of the Mission's work was due to the excellent team-work
between the Diet Committers and the officinls of thc Japanese
government and of SCAF. The Llission feels confident in conse-
quence that what has been so weil begun vill be resolutely
carried out, and it is happy to have been able to partici-
pate in a development which it belioves to promise so much
good for the ultimate benefit of Japan.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
I. A NATIONAL LIBARY S..VICE FOR JAPAN
No two. national library systems in the world are exactly
alike, but they have this function in common: to perform ser-
vices of a kind which can be most efficiently rendered on a
national basis to assist in making the informational and cul-
tural resources of the nation available to its entire people.
Lacking these services, no library, however well equipped it
may be individually, can hope to function with full effective-
ness; with thom, even the smallest library can take its place
in a national systom whosc unity is derived not from adminis-
trative authority but from participation in common methods of
work and in a common knoulcdge of sources of information. An
adequate national library systom is consequently not only an
essential instrument or thc efficient employment of national
informational rosources, but also is a potent engine of demo-
cracy. Its cffect is t make available to all what would
otherwise be ros rved o the few; to put the possessions of
the nation gonuinely at the sorvicc of all its citizens.
The funetion of librarics is to make available cultural
and informational materials in recorded form. To do this,
materinls must first be assembled and organized for service;
and this organization, though but a means to an end, can
easily absorb much of the man-power avail-blc in librarics.
No two library collections are xactly alike, but the com-
ponent units of which they are formcd may be, in the case of
published materials, duplicatrd in many libraries. This fact
makes possible a basic national library service --that of cen-
tral bibliographic servics. Such a systcm releases much man-
power to those dynamic or refercnco activities of libraries
which can always bc best performed locally.
Many advantagcs flow from such a service in addition to
the obvious one alrcady stated. A principal benefit in stan-
dardization of m thod, which of itsilf tends to unify the
nation's collections and which permits the development of co-
operativ: bibliographic ventures, among the most important of
which are union catilogs, both of published materinis and of
manuscripts. These, in turn, by informing the user where
materials are locntid, facilitate interlibrary loans or the
procuremont of photographic or microfilm copies.
A still further advantage can be foreseen. By adjusting
its methods to those of other countries, it would no longer be
necessary for one country to duplicate work already performed
in the others.
It has been found that such a central service as described
above can be most efficiently given by an gency which is al-
ready performing a large share of the b:sic work for its own
purposes. Such an gency is ? national library which, by
-5

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
making a comprehensive collection of the publications of
its own country, not only guarantees the availability of
at least one copy, but frees other librar es for their
specialties.
If, in addition, such a library owes its first ser-
vice to the members of the national legislature, it may be
expected to become ricn in the publications of other coun-
tries which are needed in that service. It would there-
fore become a library of great potential service to re-
search, and its collections and its services should be made
available as fully as possible to other agencies of govern-
ment and to the public. Since its own service to the legis-
lature would be not static but dynamic, it would serve as
an example of such service to other institutions through-
out the country. Finally, since such a library would have
an interest, possibly preater than any other, in the devel-
opment of national bibliographical services--for a perfec-
ted national bibliography, including the hibliography of
the official publications of the national government, for
indexing and abstracting services, union lists, and the
like--it may be expected to take a lead in securing them,
with resultant benefit to all libraries and all users of
libraries.
The people of Japan are great users of books, and
these are copious evidences that they would derive great
benefits from adequate library facilities. Their lack of
such facilities can be traced in large nart to the defici-
ency of basic national libra'v services, and this in turn
to the prevailing political philosophy, which, in the case
of the Diet, made its mombers almost comnletely dependent
for information upon the executive branch of the government.
In suggestin: the following functions and organization for
the National Diet Library, therefore, the Library Mission
has considered, first, the needs of the Diet membe's them-
selves; next, the needs of the national government in all
1ts branches; and, throughout, the service of the nation as
a whole.
-6.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
II. OBJICTIVES AND FUNCTIONS
The following objectives and functions are suggested for
the National Diet Library:
A, Reference and research services for all members of the
Diet, to aid them with factual information in the determination
of policies.
B. Bibliographical research and reference services for
all departments of the nitional gcvernment.
C. Bibliographical eference ani research services for
local governments, industries, agriculturists, labor unions
and other groups and indiv  uals in Japan, provided that these
services are not availuhle through local libraries.
D. Inter-library loans, or the furnishing of material
through photographic reproduction, to the libraries of Japan
for the usc of organizations and individuals, insofar as the
publications desired are not available in local libraries.
E. Supply of printed catalog cards to Japanese libraries
at a price sufficient to cover cost of printing.
F. The development of codes of cataloging and classifi-
cation and the preparation of subject-hcading lists in order
to promote the standardization of library techniques through-
out Japan, and the avoidance of duplication of effort.
G. The conduct of exchanges with libraries of foreign
countries using Japanese government publicntions and its own
printed catalo? cards for this purpose. In cooperation with
other Japanese libraries it should compile lists of Japanese
publications available for exchange with foreign institutions,
and lists of foreign institutions having publications avail-
able for exchange with Japu ese libraries.
H. The compilation of lists of books and government docu-
ments published in Japan, the preparation of an index to the
laws of Japan, and othcr important bibliographies and statis-
tical compilations.
I. Assistance to other lihraries of Japan by assuming
leadership, not through administrative authority but rather
with the hope of demoeratic cooperation, in such activities as
the preparation of union catalogs of books and serials.
J. The furnishing of an example to other libraries in
Japan through the perfoctior of its organization, administra-
tion, technical practices and procedurcs.
-7…

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
III. ORGANIZATION
A. Scope
1. Branch libraries
(a) Governmental branch libraries
If the National Diet Librarv is to serve
all departments of the national government, branch librar-
ies will be required, as for e xamplo in the Supreme Court
building and in the various ministries. Whilc these branch
libraries will exist to scrve the departments concerned, yet
their techniques of cataloging, classification, ctc., should
accord with those of the Wational Diot Library. The books
in their collections shoul: he intcrchangcable with those
of the National Diet Libriry and of other branch libraries.
There should be a union catilog of all books in government
libraries. The objective of such a systcm would be to make
any book owned by the nitional gov rnment available to any
official of the government in the xecution of his duties.
In order to assur coordination of mcthed ind economy
of administration, the librarians of the branch libraries
should be reguircá to render annual and special reports to
the Chief Librarion o? the National Dict Library. The Chief
Librarian should have uthority to prescribe mothods of cata-
loging, classification and the like to the branch libraries.
The budget of each brinch library should be included
as a scparate item in ench departmental budget, and no part
of the appropriation for a braneh library should be trans-
ferred to another item without the concurrenee of the Chief
Librarian of the National Dict Library and the member of the
Coordinating Committee who represents that braneh of the
government (see below III.B.2).
(b) The National Library it Ueno Park
Experience has shovn that the existence of two
national libraries is not compatible. ith the prineiplc of
unified service and economy of administration. The U. S.
Library Mission was invited to Japan by the prcsiding offi-
cers of the Diet and the cheirmen of the two Library Com-
mittees to advise in r gard to the establislment of a Natio-
nal Diet Library. In the preliminary correspondence and in
the discussions, reference vns r peatcdly made by Committee
members to the organization of thi National Diet Library
along the lines of th Library of Ccngress.
-8

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
In the United Statcs thcre is only one national library.
It is therefore suggested that on or before 1 Apr1l 1949, the
present National Library at Ueno Park be merged with the Natio-
nal Diet Library. This provision does not imply that the book
collections of the two libraries will necessarily be merged;
it does imply the merging of overhead control and administra-
tive authority.
It is suggested that the present Nitional Library at Ueno
Park may eventually be developed into a great municipal refer-
ence library, similar to the New York Public Library. In such
a case it should serve all the neople of Tokyo and give special
service to government o"ficinls of the municipality of Tokyo
through the development of a municipal reference service. It
should collect dupi cair copies of the publications of the
municipality of Tokyo, to oxchange with other libraries, foreigi
and domestic. It should give close attention to cooperation.
with the schools of Tolivo ind other municipal agencies.
Japan does not need and cannot afford two national librar-
ies, but it does need badly a great municipal reference library
similar to the great municipal libraries in the United States.
Such i library would be the npex of a great municipal svstem
of libraries which would serve as an examplc to ali the larger
cities of Japan.
B. Overhend Control
1. Standing Committees on Library Management of the Diet
At present two separate Standin: Committees on Li-
brary Management--one in the House of Representatives and one
in the House of Councillors--have the responsibility of over-
head "library management"--the determinntion of policies under
which the National Diet Library will function. These two Com-
mittees will recommend to the Diet further legislation for the
organization and administration of the Library. The relation
between these Committees and the Chief Librarian should be
close. It is suggested thit the Committees be given responsi-
bility for reviewing dministr tive regulations made by the
Chief Librarian, and tlat they also be given responsibility for
scrutinizing and for forwarding the annual budget of the Li-
brary, with their recommendations.
These two Committees might well act as a joint committee
in discussing questions of legislation and policy. This ar-
rangement will avoid misunderstandings in the relations of the
Chief Librarian to the two Ccmmittees. Otherwise, one Commit-
tee might make one interprctation of a law, while the other
might have quite a different point of view.
-9-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Coordinating Committee on the National Diet Library.
Since the National Diet Library will eventually serve
the various departments of the national government, the execu-
tive departments and the Supreme Court will have an interest
in its development and functioning. It is therefore suggested
that a Coordinating Committee of four members be constituted
as follows: the two chairmen of the Standing Committees on
Library Management, a third member to be appointed by the Pre-
mier, and a fourth member to be appointed by the Chief Justice
of the Supreme Court. This Committce should have responsi-
bility for assuring that adruunte library services are render-
ed to all departmonts of th government. It should recommend.
to the attention of the Dict Committee any necded legislation
affecting the libraries of thc various agencies of the Govern-
ment. It should assist in making pos iblo standard and uni-
form methods of cataloging and clussification to be used in
government libraries. It should assist in the avoidance of
unnecessary uplicaticn in the purchase of books. It should
provide support for the Chief Librarian in so coordinating the
services of governmental libraries that thr resources of any .
one library will be availuble to ny membc of the government.
These proposals should cventually result in th~ formation
of a great coordinated system of govcrnment librarics, with the
National Diet Library as the nuclcus or kcystone.
3. Budgct
The Chief Librarian should have responsibility for
preparing the annual budget of the N tional Diet Library and
for presenting it to the Standing Committces on Library Manago-
ment before Decembor 1 of cach year. It should be the task
of the Committecs to review th budgct in joint committee, and
to forward it, with thcir recommcnd itions or changes to the
presiding officers of the Houses before F bruary 1 of each
year. Provision should be made, however, that if the Commit-
tees on Library Manig ment should take no action on the budget
by February 1, the budgct should then be transmitted to the
presiding officcrs of th Houses withcut changc.
The Chief Librarian should consult with the librarinns.
of the branch librari s reg rding the preparation of their
budgets which will be ineluded in th. budgcts of the agencies
concerned.
4. Rules and Regulations
The Chief Librarian should have full authority to
make all rules nd regulations for the National Diet Library,
subject only to a review by tho Standing Committees on Library
Management, sitting in joint committec. It should be provided
-10-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
however, that any rules and regulations made by the Chief
Librarian would remain in force unless specifically disapproved
by the joint committee.
C. Departmental Organization of the Library
It is suggested that the National Diet Library bc organ-
ized into departments as follows:
General eference
Legislative Research and Reference
Branch Libraries
Acouisitions
Technicnl Processes
Anxiliary Services
Adeinistration
An organization chart, showing a suggested development of
departments and divisions and the lines of administrative au-
thority, is attached hereto.
-11~

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
IV. ADMINISTHATION
A. The Chief Librarian
1. Duties
(a) The Chief Librarian should be in direct charge
of the administration of the National Diet Library, acting
in accordance with the library laws and the policies adopted
by the two Committees on Library Management in joint com-
mittee.
(b) He should be responsible for the organiza-
tion and maintenance of adequate und effective services to
all members of the Diet in iccordanee with the best and most
modern library practices.
(c) Under the policies established by the two
Diet Committees in joint committeo he should make sure that
adequate libr try services re available to all depirtments
of the national government through braneh libraries estab-
lished in these denartments; that 1l books necded for tem-
porary use in these branches be made immediitcly available
to them through inter-library loan, if humanly possible;
that data, factual information and reports be mide avail-
able for any government bureau when requested; that the
librarians of all governmental departments administer their
libraries so as to render the utmost possible service to
the departments concerned; th t un form methods are used in
all government libraries so is to make the books owned by
the government availabl: to ll momb rs of tho government
service who may need them.
(d) He should see that the librories administered
under his suporvisior are of dir ct scrvice to the people of
Japan through prefectur:, univ rsity ani other libraries, in-
sofar as these services will not interfore vith th scrvices
mentioned in the preccding paragrophs. He shall advisc and
assist thc librorians of Japan, whenever such advicc is re-
quested. He shall (ncourag the exchange of Japanese librar-
fans of other countries. He slall ncourage thi development
of all kinds of librarics in Japan.
(e) He should appoint the Assistant Chi f Librar-
ian, subj ct to the approval of the presidents of both Houses
of the Diet. Under the rules nd regulations of the Diet
Secretariat Personnel Law he shall appoint all other members
of his staff.
(f) In coop ration with oth r g ncies he should
prepare, or assist in the preparation of publications such as
a list of books published in Japan nd 1 list of Japanese
-12-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
government publications, t annual or more frequent intervals;
also, union lists of periodicals vnilable in Japnese librar-
1es, showing the location of such periodicals; an index to the
laws of Japan, etc.
(g) He shall pr sont an annuil report on the opera-
tion of the Library to the Speaker of the House of. Representa-
tives and the President of the House of Councillors. Occasion-
ally as may be necessary, he shall preparc special reports on
policy to the two Dict Committecs and to the Coordinating Com-
mittce. In cooperation with the librari ns of the Supreme
Court and the other branches of the government he shail pre-
pare reports to be prr ntcd to thc heads of the various bran-
ches of the. gov rnmint on th operation of the branch libraries
in the judicial nd oxccutive branches.
2. Qualificitions
(a) The Chicf Librarian should be a man of integri-
ty and high intellig nce vho commands tho rcspect of the
people of Japan. He should have demonstrated cxceptionil ad-
ministrative ability and a grcat cip city for loadership.
(b) He should be sympathetic with the high ideals
of librariinship nd an enthusinstic dvocate of the services
which a modern librarv shoul render. He should understand
the needs of legislutors, scholars, scientists, technologists,
and others, for the kinds of informition which should be avail-
able from librarics. He should be conversant with the best
techniques used in modorn library systems without necessarily
being a technical xprrt.
(c) He shouli be ? graduite of a university of
recognized standing. He si ould have at lcast a reading know-
ledge of two forcign lnguaes. Since thc usefulness of the
National Dict Library will depend upon its frecdom from poli-
ticnl bins, it is obvious that the Chief Iibrarian must ab-
stain completely from all partis-n activitics. He must pos-
sess prestige which will ppeal to nd be recognized by mombers
of all political partics.
(d) Aft r  ppointm nt it vill br desirablo for him
to visit librurics of othr countries nd more especially
national libraries.
(e) He should b a man in th prime of lifc, with
15 or 20 years of ctive work ahond of him.
3. Appointment, Tenure nd Salary
.(a) The Chief Librariin is appointed by joint ac-
tion of the Speaker of the House of Represontatives and the
-13-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
President of the House of Councillors. It may be desir-
able to require that the presiding officers consult on the
appointee with the Standing Committees on Library Manage-
ment, and that the appointment be app"oved by vote of the
Houses.
(b) The Chief Librarian should be appointed solely
on the basis of merit, and he should. be removed only for
failure to perform his dutics. He should not be appointed
or removed for political reasons, nor should he, as stated
previously, engige in activ party politics. In this re-
spect his position should br comparable to that of - Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court.
(c) He should be removable from his position
only by joint nction of th Spe kcr of the House of Repre-
sentatives and the President of the Housc of Councillors.
(d) Provision should be mide for his retire-
ment on account of gc, upon the same principlc which af-
fects justices of the Supreme Court.
(e) The Chief Librarian will be a person who
will havc most important dutics, not only in the adminis-
tration of the National Diet Library, but also in the en-
couragement of. library services vhich will eventually
reach all the people of Jap n. He will be consulted by
legislators, government officials, university presidents,
lenders of industry, agriculture ind labor, and by others
interested in the ostablishment of ideal libriry scrvices
throughout Japan. Librarians will naturally consult him
and look to him, not as a bureaucrat, but as one who can
help them by advice ani in democratic, cooperative discus-
sions. His salay an position should be commer surate
with tin ia orta  dr les of his office. It is suggested
that his saliry, ailcinces nd prcrequisites be not less
than those of a ministcr of state.
B. The Assistant Chief Librarian
This officer should assume charge of the operation
of the Library during the absence of the Chief Librarian.
Because the Chief Librarian will probably wish to give
his own immediate attention to the Lcgislative Reference
and public service departments of the Library, the princi-
pal continuing duty of the Assistant Chief Librarian should
be to give special attention to the Departments of Acquisi-
tions, Technical Process, and Auxiliary Services. He should
be, or become as quickly as possible, an cxpert on the tech-
nical routines of library manigement and be able eventually
to advise librarians throughout Japan on standards of cata-
loging, classification, card systems, ctc.
-14-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
C. The Director of Personncl
The Dircctor of Personnel will essist the Chief Librarian
in the recruitment of a capable staff for the Library. He
will prepare statcments of the duties of ll members of the
staff as well as statements of qualifications nd pay sched
ules, subject to the provisions of the Dict Secretirint Per-
sonnel Law. He should zid in the prepration of examinations,
whether assombled or non-assembled.
On account of thc present lack of technically qualified
personncl in Japan, it may bo necessarv, temporarily, to re-
duce thc professional requirements for appointment to the
staff of the Nitional Liet Library. It should however be
clearly undcrstood thit all such aprointments are conditional
upon the ability of incumbents to sntisfy the full require-
ments after a reasonable time, to be nnounced, which will
permit them to qualify.
Evontually, when the Administrative Department is organi-
zcd, it may be found desirable to include the office of the
Director of Personnel in that Denartment. However, beeruse
of the importance of porsonnel administration to the proper
functioning of the Library, the Director of Personnel should
probably be lwiys able to report dircctly to the Chief
Librarian.
D. The Legislative Rescarch nd Reference Department
The Director of this Departmcnt should, under the direc-
tion of the Chicf Librarian, be responsible for assistance
to  iet membcrs in the supply of factual miterial obtainable
from hooks. He should be ible to supply them with material
publi i d in ny country nd on ny subject of interest to
them. He should supply factual and unbias d digests or ab-
stracts of publications and rticles in journals. He should
locate and supply for thcir usc 1aws on ny subject cnacted
by any government or major subdivision of governments in the
world.
Ho will require for thesc services experts in subject-
matter fields--not so much trained librarians as specialized
scholars who know the literature of their subjects. These
specialists, in addition to their refercncc duties, will as-
sist the Chief Librarien in the sclection of books for the
Library.
The following divisions of the Denartment, imong others,
will probably bc needed: Law nd Govcrnment; Economics;
Social Welfarc; Labor; Bill Drafting Service.
-15-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
The Director of the Department and the experts associated
with it will attempt to anticipate the needs of the legisla-
tors and insofar as possible prepare materials in advance.
It is hoped that when t is Department is fully organi-
zed, it will be possible to extend its services to other
branches of the Government insofar as this can be done with-
out interference with its primary functions. ventually,
also, it is hoped that the services of this Department can
be made available to industrial and other groups in Japan.
E. General Reference Denartment
The Director of the General Reference Department is re-
sponsible for the publie re ference, lending and custodial
services of the librar" vit the exception of the services
to Diet members, responsihilitv fo" which is assigned to
the Legislative eseareh ud eference Department. He shall
have charge of the public eading rooms which will include
the law, soci1 sciences and periolicals rooms together with
others as may be found necessary later. He vill have responsi-
bility for the book stacks and the mainterance of orderly
shelving and effective physical condition. He vill be re-
sponsible for the lending of books in icccrdance vith the
rules of the Library.
The Director and his assistants will attempt within
reason to supply any book which is requested by a reader.
If the book is not available in the National Diet Library
and its branches, the Director of the Acouisitions Depart-
ment should be notified. The Reference Department and its
divisions should be alert to recommend books for acquisition.
The De artment may be organized into separate divisions,
as for exar.le:
1.
General Reading Rooms
2。
Public Catalog nd Bibliographyoom
3.
Law Reading Room
4。
Periodicals Reading Room
5.
Social Sciences Reading Room
The Director, in consultation With the Chief Librarian,
should experiment with th placing of generally used and
replaceable books on open shelves where readers can refer
to them vithout formality. Consideration should be given
to the system so generally used in the United States of
placing guards at the doors to examine books which readers
are taking away vith them. Certainly, some means must be
found to make books more ccessible to readers than is now
generally the practice in Japancse librarics.
-16-

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
F. Acquisitions Department
The Director of this Department should be responsible
for the acquisition of books, pcriodicals and other materials
for the collections in accordance with the policies of the
library.. He should sign all rcquisitions for purchase which
have been approved by the Chief Librarian or his deputy. The
Department should consist of at least thrce divisions.--one for
the purchase of books as distinct from periodicals (i.e.
serials); another for thc purchase and chccking-in of serials;
and a third for the handling of gifts and exchanges, and for
the disposition of unnecded duplicates.
The Serials Division should keep a careful record of the
individual issues of priodicals as they are received, in
order that the filrs of th Library shall be complete is pos-
sible.
The work of thesc three Divisions must be closely coordi-
nated.
The Diructor and his chi f assistant should be thoroughly
familiar with the book trade in Japan and in forcign countries.
They should know the various ag neies in the more important
countries which import and export publications. The Director
and his staff should have a reading knowledge of many foreign
languages.
It would be dosirable to ppoint to positions in this
Department trained librarians with expcrience in acquisitions
capable of tr ining thcir assistints, though admittedly quali-
fied trnined librarians are difficult to obtain in Japan.
Therefore, it may be necessary to make temporary appointments
and to permit the ppointccs to completc their educition with-
in a definite period during tomporarv service.
G. The Departmcnt of Technical Processes
The Dircctor of this Denartment should have supervision
of the preparation of the cnt log of the library, including
the catalogs of all branch s. He should, in cooperation with
the Director of Brane Libraries, arr ng for a union author
and subjcct catalog of all books in the national governmental
libraries in Tokyo. This cat log (which is not to be confused
with the l'ational Union Catalog) will eventu lly be the cata-
log of the National Dict Library and its branches. Each card
will indicate the branch in which the bock is deposited. By
this method a render can ase rtain vhat books the government
has by a given author o' on a given subject, and where the
books are located. Th compl tion of this task will require
considerable time but it should b started immediately.
-17

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Multiple copies of catalog cards as needed should be
supplied to each branch library for the books perminently
deposited in thit branch.
In cooperation with the Director of the Department of
Auxiliary Services and with Japanese scholars and librarians
he should prepire codes of standard practices in cataloging
and classification. Possibly the code now in use in one of
the western countries might be used for the cataloging of
western books. This activity should receive the first it-
tention of the Director of the Department when appointed.
An attempt should be made also to d evelop a system of book
classificntion which can ventunlly he uscd throughout Japan
and which certainly should be used for all government librar-
1es.
It would be advisable to ittempt to adopt a system of
cataloging nd classification for which equivalonts could
be found in one of thc systems usrd abrond, so that printed
cards made brond could be uscd in Jap in, ind vice versa.
Thc compilation and usc of th: card catalog, shclf
list and other library records would be greatly facilitated
if the Roman alphabet was generally adopted. The Japanese
libriries ure grently handicapped by thc fact that filing
is extremely difficult under the symbols no" used. The use
of the Roman alphabet vould facilitate the exchange of cards
with foreign libraries as wcll as aid in othcr international
relations. The fact thnt the Roman lphabet is now being
taught at primary lcvels will facilitat its adoption in
library practice in the future.
The cost of cataloging books is high. Very great
economies for the libraries of Janan would be obtaincd by
the printing of a sufficient number of catalog cards to make
possible the salc of such cards to othcr libraries, thus
saving them from the necessity of duplicating in many li-
braries work already done.
The major duties of thc Department will fall un. er
three Divisions: (1) Cataloging: (2) Classification; (3)
Distribution of Printed Cards. The first two named should
be organized soon after the appointment of thc Director.
The Director and his chief ssistants should be train-
ed librarians and should have had considerable experience
in the cataloging and classificition of both Japanese and
western books. Fxperienced trained libr-riens in this field
are difficult to obtain in Japan. It may be neccssary to
appoint the Director and chief assistants on a tomporary
basis for a certnin specificd time in order that they may
complete their education in the subjects neccssary for the
-18

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
performance of their duties.
The Director should visit the United States as soon as
possible to study the cataloging and classification systems
of research libraries and the card distribution activities of
the Library of Congress. It is hoped that a specialist in
technical processes can be sent to Japan after the organizatior
of the Library to advise in the development and functioning
of the Techn cal Processes Department. The preparation of
suitable records 'or the use of readers is absolutely neces-
sary for the success of the library movement in Janan. Too
many libraries are'not used as they should be, because of the
lack of adequate iniormation of the books the library possesses
and of their location.
H. The Department of Branch Libraries
The Director of this Department should have as his chief
duty the responsibility for seeing that prompt and effective
services are rendered to the agencies of the judicial and exec-
utive branches of the Government. He, in cooperation with
other Departments of the National iet Library, should see that
books needed for deposit in these various agencies are promptly
purchased insofar as possible and made promptly available. He
should see that books needed for temporary loan are supplied
whenever possible through the Lending Division. He should
solicit from the members of these agencies recommendations for
books to be purchased. He should attemnt to ascertain the book
needs of the Executive and Judicial Branches and anticipate
such needs. He shouli be the liaison officer of the Library
with the librarians of the Executive ani Judicial branches.
He should, unuer the policies of the Library, keep in close
contact with the various branch libraries and the librarians
thereof.
I. Department of Auxiliary Services
The Director of the Department shoul eventually be re-
sponsible for seeing that the services of the Library are made
available to the people of Japan -- librarians, scholars,
scientists and various o ganizutions and institutions. He
should be in contact with the libraries nd librarians of Japar
not connected with th national government, with universities,
organizations, labor groups, scholars, and scientists, to ascer
tain the services wich a great n ticnal library can render to
them insofar as such sorvices do not interfere with the primary
functions of the library.
The serviccs of thc Department may be lis'ed somewhat as
follows:
-19-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
1. Publications. The Natioral Dict Librarv, with its
extensive collections of books and with its cxperts in sub-
ject fields as well as in library administration, should
eventually be qualified to issue many publications of great
value. Many of the reports and abstracts compiled for the
Diet, its committees and members, would be of value, if pub-
lished, to individuals, groups and institutions. They would
also be of usc for exchanges with oreign libraries. Codes
of standard library practices, statistics of Japancse librar-
ies, lists of books and articles cn various subjects are ex-
amplcs of the kinds of nublicntiors which would be of value.
2. Compilation of coies of Library practices. "hile
the prcparation of codes of class fication and cataloging
are the special function of tne partment of Technical
Processes, nevertheless th Denartment of Auxiliary Services
should solicit th aid of librarians throughout Japan in an
attempt to obtain basically uniform codes of practice. De-
tails will vary with various kinds of libraries but if agree-
ment can be reached in regard to basic methods to be used,
readers will find the usc of various libraries much easier.
3. Intirlibrary loans. The Department should aid in
the development of an adequatc intcrlibrary loan system
among Japanesc libraries.
4. Union Catalogs. The Department should aid in the
development of a union catalog of books and a union list
of serials.
5. Photographic rproduction, including microfilms and
photostats. As soon as the Departm nt is established, and
equipment purchased, the Dir ctor of the Department should
organize a Photographic Reproduction Division which will make
available to individuals and institutions photographic repro-
ductions of books, articles in p riodicals and even manu-
scripts. This service is the mo'e important since so many
books are out-of-print and unobtainable.
Obviously, this Departm nt should not bo organized un-
til the other departments of the library have been devcloped.
J. Department of Administration
For the present, th Chief Librarian should supervise
the administrative offices of the Library. ventually it
may prove desirable to organize these offices as a Depart-
ment and to appoint a hend to be known as Secretary of the
Library or Chief Clerk.
The Department shoulc include the foliowing divisions:
-20-

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
1. The Sccretariat, including the sccrctaries to the
Chief Librarian and th Assistant Chief Librarian, file clerks,
stcnographers, typists, ctc.
2. Administration and physical care of the building, cus-
todial duties including guarding, especially of exhibits.
3. Service of supplies for the various departments of the
Library.
4. Printing services, for thc procurement of printed
catalog cards and publications of the library, multigraphing
and mimcographing.
5. Binding service.
6. Accounts md fin uneial affairs. This Division will be
responsible for k  pin" records of all financial expenditures
and reporting on such (xpenditurcs n? the b lances available,
whenever requested.
-21-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
V. THI. COLLCTIONS
A. Scopo
The scope of the collections of the National Diet
Library will be determined (1) by the needs of its users;
(2) by the publications which it will receive automatical-
ly as deposits; ind (3) by the extant to which the collec-
ting activities are coordinated with other libraries.
1. Scope as determined by needs of users
(a) The Diet. Th. colluctions should be developed
so as to serv(, as comnlt. ly as possibl, thc needs of the
Members of the Diet in the p rformancc of their official
dutics. From this, it follows that:
i. Tre collection of mitorials on Japan
itsclf, both of domestic and foreign publications, should
bc comprehensive.
ii. The collcctions on the countries sur-
rounding the Pacific Bnsin shoult be extensive.
iii. There should be good collections on
the history and conditions of othor countris of the world.
iv. Th coll ction of the laws of all
countries should be outstanding.
v. There should be xt nsive collections
in politics and government, international law and rela-
tions, and the activiti s of other governmental and inter-
national bodies; in economics, statistics and sociological
subj cts likely to be the conccrn of important legislation.
vi. In finc arts, b.lles lcttres, phil-
ology, philosophy and religion, th dev lopment of the col-
lections need not be cmphasizrd. University libraries in
Japan will emphasize these ficlds. However, since Japanese
books on these subj cts ill br ncquired by deposit (sec
below), the outstanding forcign books on thesc subjects will
be required to make th coll ctions us ful.
vii. No att mpt should be made, at least
for the presont, to acguire rire books as such. The col-
lections should emphisizc those tynes of books which will
be needed for the day-by-day work of the Di t, Muscum
rarities are not nieded for this purposc. It is to be ex-
pected that such books will come is gifts from the citizens
of Japan.
-22~

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) Other Government agencies. The collections
should be developed so is to serve as the central library of
the Japanese government. It is the task of the Library to
assure that Il books necded by the government are somewhere
readily available to it, nd at the same time that the books
needed most by each government department are available in its
own working library. For example, many books on scientific
and technological subjects and in agriculture, forestry, fish-
ing, etc., will be of more use in thc departmental branches
than in the central National Dict Library collcction. Some
duplication will of course be necessary. In addition:
i. Works likely to br of use to a number of
governmental ig ncies, but of infrequent use to any one of
them (c.g., coll, et d ccts of government documents, files of
newspapers) should br  equired by thc National Di:t Library.
ji. Departmental libraries should be weeded
from time to time, nd less us d works should be transferred
to the National Dict Library. (Uniformity of m thods of cata-
loging, tc., will mak: such transfer very easy; without such
uniformity such transfors ar: expensive).
(c) Other libraries nd the public. The National
Diet Library should supplcment the rosources of the other
librari s of Jap n. It can do this in severnl ways:
i. By becoming thr rocognized depository for
certain classes of books, .g., Japanese publications and
forcign governmental publications.
ii. By maintaining collcctions of certain less-
used works, such as newspaper filcs.
jii. By accepting custody from non-govornment-
al libraries, just as from governmental libraries, of books
of greater national than local importancc.
iv. By maintaining a strong collcction of
bibliographic works which will onable it to provide informa-
tion as to what publications, whethir Japanese or foreign,
exist on a ccrtain subj ct, by  certain author, etc.
2. Sccp of collections as deternined by deposits
(a) Japanese governmental publications. The Natio-
nal Diet Library should acquire copies of all publications of
every agency of the Japanese government. It should prepare
and publish a list of thesc publications, unless responsibilit
for this work is vested in another agency. Such publications
will include books, periodic-ls, maps, postcrs, motion pictures
and other forms of publication. (Th: custody and service of
-23-

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
motion pictures involves spgciel requirements, which should
be carefully considered before any ictive program is under-
taken.)
(b) Japanese non-governmental publicntions.
There should be compulsory deposit in the National Diet
Library, by law, of a copy or copies of each current Japa-
nese non-governmental publication, including rooks, periodi-
cals, newspapers, maps, prints and illustrations, music,
motion pictures, and other forms of publication. Those
copies would be the basis of th central cat loging ser-
vice which the National Diet Libr ry would offer to the
other 1 braries of Japan. In addition, unl ss it is found
that adequate national bibliography is prepared and pub-
lished through other sourccs, these copies would be the
basis for a national bibliorraphy to be prepared and pub-
lished by the National Diet Library.
(c) Publications of other governments and inter-
national organizations. Since the National Diet Library
will have more use than any other library for the publica-
tions of other governments and intern:tional organizations,
it should become, by law, the depository for the sets of
these publications received in exchange for sets of Jipa-
nese governmental publications. (Such an arrangement should
not, however, debar other libraries from exchangc activities
with respect to particular publications.)
3. Coordination of collecting ictivities with other
libraries.
The number of foreign publications needed by
Japan is too great for any one library to collect all of
them. The National Diet Library should b a leader in ef-
forts to coordinate collccting activities so th t "1l needed
publications are available to the people of Jaran with the
maximum economy.
B. Methods of Acquisition
The following methods will b usrd:
1. Purchase, especinlly of foreign books.
2. Deposit, under law as outlined above.
3. Exchange. For this purrose the Library will use
unneeded duplicates, its own publications, and the publi-
cations of the Japanese Government. To assure this, the
Library should receivc by law a crrtain number of copies
of all Japanese governmental publications (50 is
suggested for the time being for usunl printed publi-
-24-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
cations issued in small editions).
4. Gift nd transfer. The Nitional Diet Library should
have authority to accept gifts of library materinls appropri-
ate to its uses, as weil as transfers of materials from other
governmental agencies. No gift should be accepted, however,
if in the opinion of the Chi f Librariin it will not add to
the usefulness of the collection.
C. Book selection
The Acguisitions partment has primary rosponsibility
for initiating r, comm nantions for the acquisition of books
for the Librarv, but this rrsponsibility must be shared with
all departments of th Library. Henders cspecially should be
urged to m ke suggcstions for ncquisition. All members of the
staff should be lert to notice the absence of books or groups
of books which may be necdcd. The librarians of the branches
should keep in close touch with their rcaders in order to
assure thit needed books are acquired.
-25

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
VI. TH}. BUILDING
Thr functions which are planned for the National Diet
Library will require consider ble space, and a separate
building will bc needed immedi-tely. The following para-
graphs bear on the planning of this separate building.
A. Kinds of space needed. Library buildings require
specialized space of various kinis. The following kinds
of space will be needed in the N tional Diet Library:
1. Office space: offices of Chief Librarian, Assis-
tant Chief Librarian, departmert directors, division chiefs
and specialists, administrative offices, study rooms, meet-
ing rooms and staff rooms.
2. Principal public space: main vestibule, exhibit
halls, hallways, public catalog and bibliographical refer-
ence room, union catalog room, principal reading rooms.
3. Minor public space und professional clerical work
space: Acquisitions, Technical Processes, Auxiliary Ser-
vices, Legislative Research nd Reference Departments;
specialized reference services and reading rooms, loan di-
vision, etc.
4. Mechanical work space: work shons for building
maintenance and preparation of exhibits; printing shop,
bindery, photo-duplication laboratory nd other lubora-
tories.
5. Storage space: book stacks, storage for micro-
films, equipment and supplies.
6. Other specialized space: auditorium, cafeteria
and dining room, garage, lavatories and locker rooms,
mop-closets, stairways, elevators and book carriers,
conduits for wiring, piping, pneumatic tuhes and ventila-
tion.
B. Basis for calculation of space
Looking ahead to the development of the Nationnl Diet
Library over the next 25 years, it would be unwise to plan for
a building capable of accommodating 1ess than 10,000,000
volunes, 3,500 readers, and 1,500 staff members, with exten-
sive card cat logs, including a union catalog, and other
specialized space in pronortion. To plan now for less than
this ultimate would mean constant cramping of facilities
during the peried of development. The entire building need
not, however, be erected at the outset. The plan presented
below would take care of the library's activities after many
-26

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
years of growth. The first unit of this plan should be. con-
structed with a view to the ultimate requirements.
The ultimate plan might present the following requirements
for specific kinds of space, in addition to others not men-
tioned:
Reading Room Space, Principal and Minor
Reader
Reference
Capacity
Collection
(persons)
(Volumes)
General Rending Rooms (1 to 3)
1,500
15,000
Law  eading Room.
400
10,000
Periodicals Readin Roo
400
2,000
Governmnt Fublication: ding oom
200
5,000
Other spccial reading rooms (& to 10)
500
10,000
Study rooms and study dcsks
500
Total reader capacity
3,500
Other Space
Bookstacks - capacitv 10,00,00 volumes
Public Catalog and Bibliographic I. feronce Room -
capacity 50,000,000 cards nd 5,000 volumes.
Union Catalog Room - capacitv 50,000,00 cards
It is obvious that General Reading Rooms with a capacity
of 1,500 readers will not immediately be required, and that
neither the Public Catalog nor the Union Catalog will for a
long time approach the ultimate of 50,000,000'cards ench. It
may be contemplated, in consequencc, that the rooms designed
for these purposes may b. used in pirt for other purposes dur-
ing the period of growth. The plan should allow for such flexi
bility.
C. Principlos of Planning
Certain principles to srrve as i guide in the development
of the plan arc noted below:
1. Appearanec. The building should have an imposing ap-
pearance comportin: with its function; but exterior ppearance
should positivcly not be permitted to dictate or interfere with
the intcrior arrangements. Effici ncy of opcration should be
the first consideration.
2. Hazirds. The construction of the building will take
account of hazards from fire, flood and carthguake. But books
are also susceptiblc to many othr hazards: polluted, or ex-
cessively dry atmosphere; cxc ssiv ly humid atmosphere which
permits the growth of moulds; diroct rays of the sun; insects
-27-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
and rodents. Construction must take account of these.
3. Light. hile direct light is harmful to books
it would appear wise to make as much use of n:tural light
as possible for the use of readers and workers. Rccent
developments in illuminating techniqus should be utilized.
4. Heat and ventilation. The contained atmosphere
of the building should at 1l times be circul:ting, although
the rate of circulation may vary very considerably in those
parts used by readers and workors and in those which are
used exclusively for stor g. Consequently, if flexibility
of space is to be secured, fl xible arrangem:nts for heating
and ventilation will also hav to be provided. In any case,
the relative humidity and clurance of the circulating air.
should always be under full control.
5. Acoustics. Proper icoustic treatment of surfaces
is no less imnortant for a library than for a broadcasting
studio, and will add very grently to the comfort and ef-
ficiency of both rendors and st ff.
6. Cleaning. A large library building makcs large
demands for cleaning. Cleaning requirements can be greatly
reduced by cleaning the nir used for ventilation. Other
dispositions should be made for mopning floors, vacuum clean-
ing of books, ctc. The possible savings and efficicncy of a
vacuum cleaning installation should be explored.
7. Guarding. It is the job of the library to pro-
mote the freest possibl accessibility of its books, yet it
must at all timcs be accountablc for th m. This poses a
problcm in guarding. The building should be designed so that
it can be adequitely guarded with the minimum expenditure of
manpower.
8. Expansibility. No ono can foresee with accuracy
the cventual uses of the various parts of th building nor
the exact ratio in which thc various kinds of space will be
required. It is probably unprofitable, in consecuence, to
attempt to plan a bu:lding which would be indefinitely ex-
pansible in the future. It would be more profitable to plan
a building much larger than required for immediate needs,
leaving to the future the completion of certain portions,
whose exact form of construction could then be determined.
For example, if the original plan contemplated eventual
book capacity of 10,000,000 volumes, with spice for 3,500
readers and 1,500 employees and other specialized space
amounting to i,500,o00 cu. ft., the immediate construction
might take care of only onc fourth that mount.
-28

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Additional storage space for books may perhaps in the
future be obtained by th construction of a simple warehouse
to which less-used books might be transferred.
9. Convertibility of space. Much space in the building
can bc designed for speci:1 uscs from the start: e.g., the
principal veading rooms, auditorium, cxhibit halls, etc.
ithin limitations of construction, however, it is advisable
thit space be flexible. Bookstacks should be designed to
house duodccimos, folios, newsp pers, maps or even possibly
motion pictures, or to be freed for work and study space.
(Considerations of fl xibility in heating, ventilation and
lighting are applicabl here.) Other space may be alterna-
tively special reading room space, work space or office space.
Permanent partitions should bo used sparingly, and removable
partitions should provide floxibility in subdividing or in en-
larging workspace. Plumbing, wiring, pn umatic tubes, tc.,
should bo plinned to present minimum dingers to the bookstacks,
and to be as sily accessible and as flexible as possible.
10. Communic tions. In a highly organized building where
the work is principally concerned with the contents of the
bookstacks, much donends upon the efficiency of the communica-
ting system for trinsmission of mossages and books. Such a
systrm must bo very carefully plann d so as to lend itself to
expeditious servic , safaty of matcrinl in transit, ease and
continuity of suporvision, nd small number of reliy-points.
11. Communications with Sub-stations. Since the primary
responsibility of the N:tion 1 Di t Library will be to the
members of the Diet, plans for a station or stations in the
Diet Building should bc included in th: plinning for the
Library Building, A collection of most-uscd books should be
maintained in thé Dict Buil ing. Prompt means of communicntior
with the Library Building should be provided, both for messages
and for bocks, by telephone, pneumatic tubes, messenger service
or otherwise.
Quick and osy communicntion with other branches, includ-
ing the depirtmcnt libraris. must be provided.
12. Mech'nical aids. Mechanisms such as clevators, book
lifts, book carriers, pnoumatic tubc systcms and the like are
of cnormous usc in cxpediting servicc nd lowering manpower
requirements. Howover, such mchanisms should not be intro-
duccd mer ly for their own sakc, but cnly upon demonstrable
increase of fficiency. (It is, for example, more efficient to
walk one or two floors if a stairwny is provided than to wait
for an clevator to go the sam distance).
13. Contiguity of spice and flow of work. Spatial assign
ments should, of course, be mide on th  basis of contiguity of
-29

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
operations to the books, and of the flow of work. Readers
should, for examplc, come to th: Public Catalog and Biblio-
graphic Reference Room befor: re ching the Principal Reading
Rooms. The flow of work in the Acquisitions and Technical
Processes Departments should be plottcd both in their rela-
tions to each other ind to other Departments of the library,
such as the Public Catalog, in advance of the completion of
the plan.
The plan of the building should be examined by qualified
persons from the point of vi: of fficiency of operition to
assure that the most officient arrngement has been reached.
14. Frce access. It vill be notcd that the table under
paragraph B provides for oxt nsiv refer(nce collections in
the reading rooms. It is pr sumed that the public will have
free access to thesc collcctions. Such freedom of access con-
tributes grently to re:der fficiency, ne very greatly re-
duces the need for withdrawal of books from the sticks.
15. Public rest rooms shoulu be conspicuously provided.
16. A staff-room where membcrs of the staff may hold
discussions, study or mercly relax, has been found useful in
large libraries.
17. Enginccring consultation. The plans should be ex-
amined not only by architccts und constructicn engineers and
librarians, but by cxperts in illumination, acoustics, venti-
lation, communicntions, etc.
18. Revision of plans. It is recommended that fter
tentative plans are driwn, the Chiof Librarian and the archi-
tect should visit ? numbr of modorn library buildings, check-
ing the tentative plans gninst th practices found in other
parts of the world.
-30-

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
VII. BUDGFT AND PRIORITIES
The Mission, in the short time at its iisposal, has not
attempted to prepare even an initial budget for the National
Diet Library, sinee the factors which would determine any
budget were not then defined. The preparation of a preliminary
budget should, however, be one of the first tasks of the Chief
Librarian. In this connection, the following thrce principles
may be mentioned:
A. Salaries
The salaries paid in those positions which require experts
in subject fields (Legislative Research and eference Depart-
ment) and in the positions which require capable professional
librarians, should be on a sc le sufficient to attract the most
capable persons in Jar n. The functions of the National Diet
Library are too import nt to be entrusted to persons who have
not shown exceptional bilities and experience in the fields of
service represent d by the requirements of the library .
B. Progressive incre se of budget
During the first year or two, it will not be necessary to
organize all dep irtments of the Library. The budget during the
first :ears of the Library's existence will have to be increas-
ed annually.
In addition to the increase caused by the progressive
organization of dep rtm nts as called for in this report, there
should be an increase in the purchase of books abroad. Át
present the purchasing of foreign books is difficult, but when
this condition is changed, foreign books should bc purchased
in increasing quantities. Additional funds will be needed for
this purpose.
C. Branch Libraries
As the libraries of the Judicial and Executive branches
of the government and at Urno Park bocome branches of the
National Diet Library, funds will be necessury for their opera-
tion. However, these expenses will not be an addition l burden
to the Japanese treasury to the extcnt thit funds are now being
appropriated to the Ministries for these libraries. There will
be somc savings in the avoidance of duplication, hut undoubted-
ly additional funds will be necessarv for the more efficient
operation of these librarics.
D. Priorities
The first depirtments to be orginized should be the
Departments of Tcchnical Processes ind Acquisitions. One of
the first projects to be undortaken should be the consolidation
-31-

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
of the libraries of the two Houses, the consolidation of
their two catalogs, possibly some re-cntaloging nd the
preparation of codes of cataloging and classification. The
Department of esenrch and Legislative Reference should be
organized early, as should the Division of Personnel. The
Chief Librarian from the outset will need the assistance
which this Division can supply in preparing schedules of
duties, qualifications, nd s lary scales for the various
classes of assist nts. He wiil also need assistance in his
attcmpt to find qualificd persons for the positions to be
filled. Obviously, also,  fin nci 1 unit to makc it possible
for the Chief Librarinn to aecount fcr the appropriations
made to the Library should be established from the outset.
-32~

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
VIII. EDUCATIO: FOR LIBRARIANS
Librarians with adequate education and experience are
extremely rare in Japan today. It will be impossible to find
persons in the immediate future who will be fully qualified to
fill positions in the Nitional Dict Library. Some immediate
solution, which must be a compromise, is necessary. The follow.
ing proposals are made in the hope of avoiding too greit a
delay in the functioning of the Library:
A. Temporary appointments
Appointarnts to those many positions on the staff which
require considerael kr oml dge of languages and library tech-
niques and oxpericnce in rosenrch libraries should be made on
a temporary basis unti! th: persons appointed can quslify them-
selves, partly by takin l um/ung courscs or courses at a
library school on  p i-tinc basis. The p rmanent qualifica-
tions for these pesitions should, however, be maint ined on a
high levcl, even if execptiors must be made to certain require-
ments for th: time being. In order to insure the eventual high
quality of the staff, 11 t mnorary appointments should be
vacatcd at the end of : definit fixrd period to be announced
in advance, and the appointm nts of the incumbents should not
be renewed unless they con demonstrate that they have bccome
fully qualificd by that time.
B. Study in Forcign countries
Arrangoments should be made s soon as possible for the
study in western countrics by members of thc National Diet
Library St ff, of the techniques used in libraries of those
countrics. Leaves of abscner should b granted for this pur-
posc. Such study would b. (speci lly p o'itablc for the
Assistant Chief Librari n nd for tho Directors of the Depart-
ments of Acquisitions and Technical Proccsscs, For these three
positions, trained and expcricncrd librarians are essential.
C. Program for the immediate future
A definite program for the cducation of mon and women for
librarianship should be outlined during 194. The Library
School at Uono Park should be devcloped, possibly being adminis-
tered in connection with somc university. Many hundreds of
trained librarians will be necded onnually in Japan, and library
schools should be stablished in other universities. But the
organization of library schools alone will not solve thc immedi-
ate problem. It has been reported that only ten students are
now enrolled at the Ueno Park Library School. Ten graduates
a year will not begin to satisfy th needs of Japan for
librarians of high intelligence, basic education and specific
training in the many branch s of librarinnship. In th United
-33

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
States over thirty library sehcols, invarirbly connected
with universities, graduate approximatcly a thcusand trained
librarians cach year.
The low salaries vhich are paid to Japanese librarians
may have been one of the cuses of the lick of highly educa-
ted and well traincd librarians in Japan. Certainly some
means must bc found to encourage able men and womon to enter
this comparatively new profession which offers such unusual
opportunities for the domccratic cducation of Japan. Fellow-
ships might be grantei for the study of librarianship by
younger Japanese students of high int-lligencc. Such fcllow-
ships should be availubl f r study both in Japan and in
foreign countries. A program such as outlined a'ove should
ensure that Japan will cvontu lly possess " largr body of
able and expericnced librari ns.
In the meantime it is suggested that attention be given
to the establishment of library institutes for limited periods,
possibly thrce or four months. 1. is suggested that many
Amcrican librarians now temporarily vetive in Japan might be
called upon to assist in th conduet of such institutes.
Indeed, some of the se librarians might be used in the train-
ing of the staff of the Nationil Dict Library, through in-
formal instruction and supervision, as well as through short
courses. It has been suggested arli r in this report that
an American adviser bo brought to Japan to assist in the
initial development of the lotionol Diet Library. One of the
duties of such an adviser might w il bo to organize training
classes for its staff.
-3

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
APPEIDIX
A. The Mational Diet Library Lav, passed by unanimous vote of both
Houses of the Diet, February 4, 1948.
The Fational Diet Library is hereby established as a result of the
firm conviction that truth maes us free and with he o ject of contrilu-
ting to internetional peace and he denocratization of Japen as promised
in cur Constitution.
Chanter I. Establishment and Purposes
Article 1. The Fational Dict Library is hereby established and this Law
shall bo mown and cited as the Tational Diet Library Law.
Article 2. he Tational Dic ibrary shall collect books and other library
materials for the rurnose of assis ing the ne hers of the National Diet in
the performance of their duties ant also for the nurrose of providing
certain library services as hereinafter specified for the Executive and
Judicial branches of the Tational overnment end for the people of Japan.
Article 3. The Tational Diet Library shall consist of a central library
and of such branch libraries as are provided for herein or as may here-
after be established.
Chapter II. The Chief Librarian
Article 4. The Chief Librarian of the ational Diet Library shall be one
only in nuiler. He shall be apucinted bv he Presidents of the Houses
with the appreval of the Houses on their consultation with the Standing
Cormittees on Library lianagement of the Houses. He shell continue in
office so lcng as he rerforns his duties sati actorily. He shall refrain
from poli-ical activities and he shall not be disnissed for political
reasons. He may be disnissed by joint action of the Presidents of both
Houses. He shall be retired upon the attainment of the age as fixed by
law. His treatment shall be equal to that of e minister of state.
Article 5. he Chief Librarian shall supervise the administration of the
Library and direct the officials and emplcyees thereof in the performance
of their duties. He shall make all rules and regulations for the govern-
ment of the Library. Such rules and regulations shall be subject to the
approval of the Standing Committees on Liurary anagenent meeting in Joint
Conmi tee, provided, however, that such rules and regulations shall be
effective as pronulgated by the Chief Librarian unless specifically dis-
approved by said Joint Comrittee.
Article 6. The Chief Librarian shall  ake at the veginning of each fiscal
year a report to the Presidents of oth Houses on the operations and fin-
ancial condition of the Library for the previous fiscal year.
-35-

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 7. The Chief Librarian shall arrange for the publication, at
periodic intervals no greater than cne year, of a catalogue or index of
the publications issued within Jaran during the rreceding year or period.
Article 8. The Chief Librarian is authorized to arrange for the prepara-
tion, in form suitable for publication, of an index to the laws of Japan.
Chapter III. The Assistant Chief Librarian and
Other Officials and Employees
Article S. The Assistant Chief Librarian shall be one only in number. He
shall be apoointed and dismissed by the Chief Librarian with the approval
of the Presidents of both Houses. He shell assist the Chief Librarian in
the ad inistration of the Library. When the Chief Librarian is unable to
attend to his duties or when his post is vacant, the Assistant Chief Librarian
shall perform the duties of Chief Librarian. His treatment shall be not less
than that of a vice minister of state.
Article 10. All other officials and employees of the Mational Diet Library
shall be apnointed by the Chief Librarian on the sole basis of their quali-
fications to perform the duties of their respective offices, and in accord-
ance with the provisions of the Diet Secretariat Personnel Law. The Chief
Librarian shall prescribe the duties of such cfficials and emplovees. No
officials of the Library shell be, concurrently, members of the Diet or shall
hold ther ncsts in either the xecutive or Judicial branches of the national
government, provided however that such posts in sovernment branch libraries
are not included.
Chanter IV.
The Standing Committees in Library
anagement and the Coordinating Committee:
on the Jational Diet Library
Article 1l. The Standing Comni tees on Library Managenent of both Houses
shall muct in Joint Comnittee not less frecuently than once in six months
to consider reports from the Chi f Librarian on the progress of the Library,
for the consideration of the rules and regulations made by the Chief Librar-
ian for the government of the Library, for consideration of the budget of
the Library, and of other business relating to the Library. The Committees
shall report thereon to the Houses.
Article 12. There is hereby established a Coordinating Cormittee on the
National Diet Library. This comittee shall consist of four members who
shall be the chairman of the Standing Committees on Library Management of
the two Houses, a Judge of the Supreme Court appointed by the Chief Justice,
and a minister of state appointed by the Prime Minister. The mervers shall
serve without additional compensation, and shall elect their own chairman.
The Chief Librarian may attend meetings of the Committee, but shall have no
vote in its proceedings.
Article 13. The Coordinating Committee shall make recommendations to the
Standing Committees on Library lanagenent of both Houses for the improve-
ment of the services of the Maticnal Diet Library to the Diet and to the
Executive and Judicial branches of the government.
-36

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
Chonter V. Denertments of the Library
Article 14. The Chief Librerian shall orgonizc the Library into such
dopartments, divisions and other units as are neccssory for its
cfficicit adninistretion.
Chapter VI. Res rch and Legislative Reforence Derart ent
Article 15. The Chief Librarion slall cstablish within the National
Dict Librery a depart cat to be known as the Reseerch and Logislative
Rufuronco D partmont. Tt shall bo tho duty of this department:
a) Upon requust c advis nd assist any committce of the Dict
in the amalysis, uppr isal or val ation of Icgislation pending beforo
it, or of proposals s :t itted to the Dirt by tho Cabinet or nny Excou-
tive agency, and o hev se to rssist in furnishing a basis for the
propor detormination ci mensu-cs before the committec.
b) Upen r qucst, cr uron its own initictive in anticipation of
requests, to goth'r, c. ssiiy, cnalyzo ond moke available in transla-
tions, indonxs, di st
corrilations, bullctins and otherwisc, data
for or berring upen lo
slation, and to render such datn serviccablc
to tho Dict and to the omittecs nnd mombers thorcof, without pertisan
or burcnuerrtic bosi:  soliction or rrcsentation.
c) To providc n br.l-drofting service for the assistence of the
Di't, its conmitts an 1 mumbers in the prepora ion of 1 gislation;
provided how ver that  his assistone. shall be supplied only upon rc-
quest of  comnitteo or n member of the Di t, ond that the staff of the
Rescerch and L gislntive Refurence Department shall in no case initiate
or urge logislntion.
d) To nake the infornv ion which it gothers available to other
branches of the nation I government or to the public to the oxtent that
tho noeds of the Diet d of its cenritteos and mumbers pernit this to
bc donc.
Article 16. The Chief Librerien shell appoint a dirccter, assistant
director nnd nll other personnel nocossnry for this Departnont without
rofcrencc to noliticel offilintions nnd sololy on the ground of fitness
to rerforn the duties of their offic nnd in nccordnnce with tho pro-
visions of the Di.t S.cr toriat P rscnnel Law. The Chicf Librarian is
furthor cuthorizea to appoint to th. steff of this Dcpnrtnent sonior
specinlists in the brond fi lds of intcrost which coincidc with the
fields of iterest of tho several Standing Co nittees of the Diet;
provided however that the treatnent of these srecialists shall be
equal with that of the First Tank officials of the national governnent.
Chapter VII.
Services to lic Judicial and Executive
ra.ches of the Goverunat
Article 17. The Chief Librarian shall be responsible for the coordix-
avion of the library service to all the Executive and Judicial branches
of the natio al gove nnent. Tc this end he shell:
-37-

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
a) Appoint the librarians of the agencics of the Judicial and.
Executive branches of the goverrre t upor tho recornendation of the
nenbers of the Coordinating Cor ittee who rospcctively represent these
branches.
However, the apnoint ent fron a ong the persons who are govemed
by the National Public Sorvice Law shall be radc in accordance with tho
provisions of the sane law, and with the consent of the chief of the
agency concorned.
b) Have authority to prcscribe, fcr the use of the librarics of the
agoncios of the Exccutive and Judicial branches of the national govern-
nent, rethods and systens of 1 ibrary ranagenent, including, for cxanpl o,
nothods rolating to catalcging. intorlibrary loans ard interchangoab ility
of collcctions, union ca alogucs and union lists; with a viow to naking
the govcrnnent library resources of the whole governnent available for
tho use of any official of ery tr ch of the nntional governnont.
c) Have authority to require emunl or spocial reports fron tho
librarians of tho several agcrci s of ay bra.ch of the national govern-
nent.
Article 18. The budget for each librory of the several agcncies of the
govornont shall be inoluded as a disti-ct iton under the title "library"
in the budget of the rgenoy ccnecmed, and aruroprintions rade thereunder
shall not bo transferrable to any cther itor i the budgot of the agoncy
nor be reduced withcut the approval of tho rerber of the Coordinating
Corvitteo represonting the Exx cutive or Judicinl branch of the national
governnent and tho Chief Librarian.
Article 19. The librorian of cach agoncy of the Exccutive or Judicial
branch of the natiornl governnent shell be respoisible for satisfactory
library scrvico to his agoncy. Ho sholl hove cuthority to appoint and
disriss the nonbers of his atoff subject to the rovisicns of tho Diet
Sccretariet Porsonnel Law or of the Jationnl Public Servico Law, or of
the Court of Justice Lew as the cosc ay bo. Hc shall heve nuthority.
undor regulations to bo rnde by the Crief Librorian, to recor end the
purchase, or acquisition by other  onrs, of books to the chicf of res-
poctive branches of tho nationnl goveranont as well as the Chiof Librar-
ian, and other library nterials or to make such yurchnsos or other
acquisitions dircctly.
Article 20. Not later than six nonths after the first appoint ont to the
post of Chief Librarian, all existing librarios of tho Executivo and
Judicial branchos of the goveranent sholl boco o brenchos of the National
Diet Library under tho provisions of this Chapter. Tho inistrics of the
national governnent which have no cxisting libraries shall establish tho
library within not later thon one year.
Chapter VIII.
Scrviccs to Other Librorics
and to the Public
Articlo 21. The sorvicec and collcctions of tho Vetional Diet Library
shall be nvailable to the people of Jrpan cither directlr or through
prefoctural or other librerics to thc fullcst  xtont consistcit with tho
requircnents of the Dict, its co ittoos and o burs and of the other
branchos of the governnent. To this cnd the Chiof Librarian is author-
ized as follows:
-38-

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
 a) To make the collectione of tho Library avnilnble for vublio
use and study cither in tho Jational Diet Librnry Building, or by
intorlibrary loan, or through conying surviccs or by oxhibition,
under rulcs and regulations to bo ndc by hi; nnd to provido such
othor scrvices as he ny fron tine to tino find to bo necessary
for the irprovenont of tho librnry serviccs of Japen.
b) To assist, by every nprropriato noans, prufectural and other
local nssc blies, governnent officials and librarinns in tho organ-
izetion of librorics and in tho developnont of library sorviccs.
c) To rake nvailable to othcr libraries and individunls dosir-
ing to purchaso ther, copics cf the pr inted cataloguo cards and
other publicntions of tho Librery, ond to chargo for the sane a price
to be deter ined by the Cief Librarian.
d) To take ensures towerd tho ostcblish ont of a union catalogue
of the librery resources ( Tna and of such other catalogue and lists
as ay be necessary to (ffcet courdirated us fulness of the librnry
resourccs of te co.
Article 22. Effective nor lator tiv: Arril 1, 1949, the Fational
Library ot Uene Porl: shy ll be on r ted as a branch of tho National
Dict Librory, to servo osrccinll. the c itizens of Tokro. As soon as
practicable thcrenfter, this librory shnll be trensferred to the
governnent of Tolyo to be opcrated undor suen Inws and rugulations as
ney be cnnsted prior to the date of transfer.
Cher er IX. The Ccllcctions
Article 23. Thc Chicf Librerin is authorized to acquire, for the
colluctions of the Tationrl Dict Library, books and othor library
naterinls by purchase, depcsit, sift, bequest and oxchengo, or by
trensfer fre other rgercies of the yover ent. The heads of ell
rgencies of the govern ent ore out crized to trrnsfor to the Notionel
Dict Librory books end other librory otorinls not nooded for their
use but in the judgment of the Chi f Librarien upropriate to the
uses of the W tional Dict Librem. mhe Chief Librerian is nuthorized
to trensfor to othor govern nel ngencius books end atorinls not
needed by the National Diet Library, or tc use them in exchange or
otherwise to dispcse of them.
Choptor X. Denosit of Gov rr unt Publicrtions
Article 24. Of ncl book, a phl t, periodicel, r, rotion picturo
or other work, printed or ctherwise renrcduced by cr for any agency
of the gcvernment in en edition of five hundred (Sco) conies or more
(oxceyt confidential matter and blan) forns), fifty (5o) coyies shall
De furnished inmediately c the Jaticnal Diet Library for its cfficial
use in Tokve and fcr its use ir international exchan e fcr the nubli-
cations of other fcverrments and in other international exchanges. Of
euch works reprcduced in edi ions of less than five hundred (5oo) ce-ies,
a number cf co: ies luss thon fifty (5o) shall be furnished to the
National Dict Library in acccrdance with r gulations to be made by
the Chief Librarian.
-39

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter XI. Devosit of Other Puhlicatione
Article 25. As for the publications other than those mentioned in the
foregoing Article, the Chief Lihrarian shall cause the publishers of
these publications to dencsit a specimen copy of each work in the
National Diet Library. In compensation for such deposit the Chief
Librarian shall give the publisher without delay that issue of the
periodically published catalogue of all works published in Japan which
lists the deposited work.
Chapter XII.
Gifts of Money--Disbursement--Budget
Article 26. The Chief Librarian shall have authority to accept gifts of
money for immediate disbursement in connection with the National Diet
Library, its services or collections, subject in each case to the approval
of the Standing Committees on Lirrary Management of the Houses meeting as
a Joint Committee.
Article 27. All appropriations made to the National Diet Library shall
be disbursed under the sunervision of the Chief Litrarian by a disbursing
officer to be appointed by him.
Article 26. The annual budget of the National Diet Library shall be pre-
pared by the Chief Librarian end shall be transmitted by him to the Stand-
ing Committees on Library Management of the Houses, meeting in Joint Com-
mittee. Said budget shall be transmitted to the Presidents of the Houses,
with or without the recommendations of the Joint Committee.
Chanter XIII. Supplementery Provisions
Article 29. This Law shall become effective on the date of promulgation.
Law No. 84 of 1947, the Diet Library Law, is hereby repealed.
Article 30. Upon the effective date of this law the Library of the House
of Representatives and the Lirrary of the House of Councillors shall cease
to exist as separate litraries, and their collections shall be transferred
to the National Diet Librery.
- 40 -

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
B. The Naticnal Diet Library Building Commd ssicn Law, passed by
unanimous vote of both Houses of the Diat, February 4, 1948.
Article 1. There is hereby established a Naticnal Diet Library
Building Commission, to consist of a chairman and four members. The
chairman shell be the Chief Librarian cf the National Diet Library,
and the members shell be the chairmen of the Standing Committees on
Library Management of both Houses or the Diet, the chairman of the
Ccnstruction Bcard and an architect arpointed by the Presidents of
he Houses. The chairman and members she.ll serve without sjecial
compensation therefor, but their necossery expenses may be paid from
appropriations mado to the Ccniscion for its work.
irticle 2. It sholl be the duty of she Ccmmission tc prepare
initial suecifications fcr ule Faticnal Diet Library Building, to
selcct a site, to select  prc itect, to initiate preparation of
plans and estinates of ccsts of construction and to make recom-
mendations te the Dirt throuch tho Prosidonts of the Houses on the
construction of the builin, ine uding the recommendation of a
budget. The Corvission slall rovert its progress to tho Prosidents
of the Houses from tinc to time, but in no caso loss frequently than
seni-nnnually.
irviclo 3. The Commicsion shall stay in boing until the complction
of the construction of thc Netional Dict Library Building. Tho Ccm-
mission shall then render a finel reyert and go cut cf oxistence.
Article 4. For its necocsary cyensos, including cffice staff,
suprlius, travel ond all other er onses, there are hereby autherized
to be erprenriated such sums as mey be dctcrrined to bo neccssary by
tho vote of tho Diet.
Supplenentery Prevision
This Law shell bccone offectivo upen eppcintment of the Chief
Librarien of the Hational Diet Library.
-41

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
一
THE
DIET
THE SPEAKER of THE HOUSE o REPRESENTATIVES
JUDICIARY
THE PRESIDENT of THE HOUSE of COUNCILLORS
EXECUTIVE
DEPARTMENTS
NATIONAL DIET LIBRARY
STANDING COMMITTEES-LIBRARY MANAGMENT
CHIEF
HOUSE  REPRESENTATIVES
LIBRARIAN
SUGGESTED ORGANIZATION
JONT COMMITTEE
HOUSE: COUNCILLORS
JAN 3,1948
COORDINATING
COMMITTEE
CHIEF
ASSISTANT
LIBRARIAN
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
DEPARTMENT of
ADMUNISTRATION
GENERAL
RESEARCH
1nd
BRANCH
ACQUISITIONS
TECHNICAL
AUXILIARY
REFERENCE
LEGISLATIVE
LIBRARIES
PROCESSES
SERVICES
REFERENCE
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
DIVISIONS
READING ROOMS
SECRETARIAT
PUBLIC CATALOG
LAW&GOVERNMENT
BOOK PURCHASES
CATALOGING
PERSONNEL
BIBLIOGRAPHIC
ECONOMICS
SERIALS ACQUISITIONS
CLASSIFICATION
UNION CATALOG
ACCOUNTS
GENERAL READING ROOS
SOCIAL WELFARE
PRINTED CATALOG
INTER LIBRARY ROOMS
LAW
BILL DRAFTING
GIFTS-EXCHANGES
CARD DISTRIBUTION
PERIODICALS
(OTHERS)
PUBLICATIONS
BUILDING ADMINIS
COVERNMENT PUBLICATIORS
PHOTOGRAPIC
TRATION
SOCIAL SCIENCES
REPRODUCTION
SUPPLIES
PHYSICAL-BIOLOGICAL
PRINTING
SCIENCES
BINDERY
MANUSCRIPTS
CAFETERIA
MAPS
MICROFILMS
MUSIC
PRINTS & PHOTOURAPTS
RARE BOOKS
STUDY ROOMS SERVICE
BOOKSTACKS
EXHIBITS
LOANS
-42
PHOTO
STAT
S

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVSION9
DCE
THENT SIAK OFFAR
UNTTED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
1948
FOR JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 192
Tokyo, March 25, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Re ulations Governing Certain Joint Operations
of the Houses of the Japanese Diet.
The Actin .olitical Adviser has the honor to enclose
894.03/3-2548
five copies of the following regulations pertaining to the
Japanese Diet, which were adopted July 14, 1947:
Regulations Governin the Legislative Committee
of the Houses.
kegulations Governing Joint Examination Meetings
of the Houses.
TO.
hegulations Governing Joint Committees of the
Houses.
1D-1
() D - Latnelosures:
Five copies of the
regulations as mentioned
above.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
CS/A
803
JDEdwards:cs
2
S
UNCLASSIFIED
2
C.
894.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 192 dated March 25, 1948
from the Office of the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Regulations Governing
Certain Joint Operations of the Houses of the Japanese
Diet".
GENERAL HEADCUARTERS
SUPRTME CONMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POERS
Government Section
REGULATIOLS CCVERNING THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSES
REGULATICNS GOVERNIIG JOINT EXAMTHATICN MEETINGS OF
THE HOUSES
REGULATIONS GCVERNING JOINT COTITTEES OF THE HOUSES
dopt.d 14 July 1947
Edited by:
Helen Loeb
Parliamentary & Political Division
12 March 1948

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE LEGISLATIVE COMMITTEE OF THE HOUSES
Article 1. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Houses shall
be elected by secret ballot from among the Committee members; he who obtains
the greatest number of votes shall be elected Chairman. If two or more members
obtain the same number of votes, the election shall be decided by lot. If the
Committee so desires, the Chairman may be chosen upon motion of a member or by
some other mothod than the aforementioned.
Prior to election of the Chairman, the senior member shall preside.
Article 2. If all the members from either House have been replaced, the
Chairman of the Committee shall be re-elected from among the whole Committee
by mutual vote.
Article 3. Acceptance or rejcction of the resignation of the Chairman
shall be decided by the Ccmmittee.
Article 4. No member of the Committee may resign without justifiable
reasons.
A member whe desires to rusign shall submit his resignation, together with
a statement of his reasons, thrcugh the Chairman to his House, in order to ob-
tain the latter's permission. During adjournment of the House, the Speaker or
President may accept the resignetion.
Article 5. In case's vacancy occurs in the Committee, the House whose
allotted membership on the Committee falls below that stipulated by law shall
elect a member to fill the vacancy.
Article 6. Directers of the Conmittee shall be chosen by mutual election.
In the absence of the Chairman, one of the directors shall sct in his
stead.
Article 7. The dates and hours of Committee meetings shall be decided
upon by the Chairman.
If a majority of the members from cither House request that a meeting be
held, the Chairman shall comply with the demand.
Article 8. 
Meetings of the Committee may be held even during the sittings
of either House.
Article 9. Unless a majority of tho members from cach House attend, the
Committee may not open the meeting or conduct business.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 10. A two-thirds vote of members present is required for accept-
ance of a draft of the Committee's recommendations.
On other proceedings, a majority of the members present may decide an
issue. In case the number of votes pro and con are even, the Chairman shall
cast the deciding vote.
Article 1l. The Chairman shall regulate Committee proccedings and maintain
order during the meetings.
Article 12. The Chairman or his deputy may express his opinion at a sit-
ting of cither House or at meetings of any committee of the House.
Article 13. The presiding officers of the House or the Chairmen of Stand-
ing Conmitteos of the Houses may attend a meoting of the Legislative Committee
of the Houses to express their opinions.
Article 14. If a member of either House desires to attend a meeting of
the Committee to cxpress his opinion, the Committec may authorize him to do so.
Article 15. The Committec may require a Minister of State or a government
delegate to attend its meetings.
Article 16. The Committee may domand the Cabinet, a government or public
office, or any other similar institution to submit such reports or documents
as are deemed necessary.
Article 17. If the Committee desires to make a recommendation to either
House or to the Cabinet, the Comaittee shall first pass a resolution to that
effect.
Article 18, "hen the Committce makes a recommondation about a proposal
for new Tegislation to both Houses, it shall submit in writing to the presiding
officers of the Heuses the gist of and reasons for the recommendation.
Article 19. If the Committce makes recommendations to the Cabinet con-
cerning laws, ordinances, or regulations, it shall present to the Cabinet a
writton message embodying the gists of the recommendations and stating the
reasons therefor.
If recommendations are made to the Cabinet, the Chairmen shall so inform
the presiding officers of the Houses.
Article 20. If the Conmittec makes recommendations to both Houses for
amendment of any law or rules concerning the National Diet, the Committee shall
present to the presiding officer of each Houso a draft of the proposed amendment
and reasons for it.
2

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 2l. Tho Committce may require from the Cabinet a written report
stating what action was taken on the recommendations mede by the Committee.
Article 22. Meetings of the Ccmmittce shall be closed to all except
members of the Houses.
Article 23. The Committee shall keep two copies of the minutes of its
meetings, recording therein the names of members present, the number of votes
pro and con, end other impertant matters.
Article 24.  Both copies of the minutes shall be signed by the Chairman
and the directors, end one copy shall be kept in cach House.
Article 25. The minutes shall be printed and copies distributed to all
members of both Houses. If the Committec decides that parts of the minutes
are to be kept seeret, the preceding clause shall not be applicable.
Artiale 2 If a member of the Committee misbehaves to a degree requiring
disciplinary action, the Chairman shall report the matter to the presiding
officer of the House to which the member belengs.
Article 27. The Secretary of each House shall administer the secretarial
affairs of the Legislative Committee of the Houses.
REGULATIONS COVERNDING JOINT EYAMINATION MEETINGS OF
STANDING COMITTEES OF THE HOUSES
Article 1. The Chairman of a Standing Committee of one House desiring a
joint examinntion meeting with a Stonding Committee of the other House shall
make such reouest to the Chairman of the Standing Ccmmittee of the other House,
stating the subject and rensons fer joint examination or investigation.
The Chairman of the Standing Cemnittee appreving the reguest shall notify
the Chairman of the Standing Cormittee runuesting the joint examination meeting.
Article 2. The Speaker end President of the Houses, upon consultation,
may request the Chairmen of the respective Standing Committees of the Houses
to held a joint exanination meeting.
Article 3. Members of the respective Standing Committees of both Houses
or members selected from the respective Standing Cemmittees shall attend a
joint examination mecting.
Solected mombers, as provided for in the preceding paragraph, shall be
the Chairmen and directors of the respective Standing Committees of both Houses.
3

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 4. The Chairman of the Joint Examination Committee shall be
selected by the Chairmen and directors of the respective Standing Committees
of both Houses.
Article 5. The dete and place of the first joint examination meeting
shall be determined by the Cheirmen of the respective Standing Committees;
the date and place of subsoquent meetings shall be fixed by the Joint examina-
tion Committee itself.
Article 6. A demand for the attendance of a proposer of a bill, of state
ministers, or of gevernment delogates shell be made by the Chairman of the
Joint Exemination Committee through the presiding officer of the House to which
the Chairman belongs.
Article 7. Members of the Jeint Examination Cemmittee may ask questions
freely ond express their views on the bill or matter under deliberation.
Article &. No vete shall be taken on a bill or matter under deliberation
in a Joint Examinatien Comittee except as previded for by law.
Article 9.  demand for th: attendance of a witness for the purpose of
examination or investigation shall be made by the Chairman of the Joint Exam-
ination Conmittee through the presiding officer of the House to which the
Chairman belongs.
Article 10.
Tostimory of a witness shall not exceed the scope of evidence
demanded of him.
If the testimeny of a witness exceeds the scope of the subject under in-
vestigation cr if his utterances are irrelevant, thc Chairman may prohibit him
frem speaking further er mey order him from the room.
Article ll. A demand for the Cabinet, government and public offices, and
others to present necessary reports or documents for the purpose of examination
or investigation shall be made by the Chairmen of the Joint Examination Com-
mittee through the presiding officer of the House to which the Chairman belongs.
Article 12. A Joint Examination Committee may hold a public hearing.
Article 13. If a public hearing is to be held, a decision to that. effect
shall be reported to the presiding officers of both Houses for their approval.
Article 14. The subject and date of a public hearing sponsored by a
Joint Examination Committee shall be reported to the presiding officers of the
Houses and to the public.
Article 15. Persons desiring to tostify at a public hearing sponsored by
a Joint Examination Committce shall be required to submit in advance their
reasons for wishing to attend and reasons for their approval or disapproval of
the matter under investigation.
4

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
Article ló. Interested persons, schol-rs, men of experience, and others
(who shall be called public speakers) who will be heard at a public hearing
shall be select d by the Joint Examination Committee from among those who have
submitted notice of desire to testify and from among cthers desired by the
Committee. Persons so selected shall be notified by the Joint Examination
Committee Chairman.
Public speakers shall be chosen from both the proponents and opponents
of the matter under investigetion.
Article 17. At a public henring, a public speaker shall obtain the per-
mission of the Chairman before speaking.
Article 18. The speech of a public speaker shall not exceed the scope
of the matter on which his views were requested.
If the remarks of a public speaker exceed the scope of the subject under
investigation or if his specch or beh-vior is deemed inappropriete, the Chair-
man mey prohibit him from speaking further or moy crder him from the room.
Article 19. A Joint Examination Committee moy authorize ? public speaker
to state his views in writing or to designate a representative to present them
for him.
Article 20. When a Joint Txamin-tion Committee has completed its invest-
igation and deliberatien, the Chairmen of the respective Standing Committees
shall cach report to his Committee n the process ond results of deliberations.
The Standing Committee may domand that such report be made in writing.
Article 21. The minutes of the Joint Examination Committee proccedings,
prepared in duplicate, shall be sigred by both Standing Committee Chairmen, and
each House sh-ll keep a copy thereof.
Article 22. The minutes of a Joint Examinotion Committee shall include
the names of those present, the nuaber of votes taken, public hearings held,
witnesses called, the dispatch f members for the purpose of investigation,
demands for submission of reports or documents, and other important matters.
Article 23. The minutes of a Jeint Examination Committee shall be printed
and distributed to momburs of both Houses. If a Joint Examination Committee
decides that a portion of the minutes of a closed meeting are to be kept secret,
the foregoing clause shall net be applicable.
Article 24. If a case of misconduct cccurs during a joint examination
meeting, the Chairman shall report it to the presiding officer of the House to
which the delinquent member belongs.
Article 25. The Secretary of cach House shall administer the secretarial
business of a Joint Examin-tion Committee.
5

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING JOINT COMMITTEES OF THE HOUSES
Article 1. "hen a Joint Committee meeting of the Houses is desired by
either House it shall make a written request therefor to the other House,
stating the subject-matter to be considered and the reasons for the requested
meeting.
Article 2. The time and date of the first meeting shall be determined
by consultation between the President and Speaker of the Houses; the time and
datcs of subsequent meetings shall be determined by the Joint Committee.
Article 3. Moatings sh-ll be held in the Joint Committee Room.
Irticle 4. The Chairmnn of a Joint Conmittee of the Houses shall adjust
proceedings f the meoting and maintain order.
rticle 5. Joint Committeemen respectively of each House shall select a
Vice Chairman. A Vice-Chairman shell act as Chairman when the latter is in-
capable of performing his duties because of extenuating circumstances.
irticle 6. If both Chairmen and Vice Chairmen are absent or incapacitated,
Joint C rmitteemen respectively of each House shall select a Chairman pro tempore
who shall act as Chairman.
Article 7. If the Chairman desires to participate in debate, the Vice
Chairman representing the sane House as the Chairman shall take the chair.
Article 8. The scope of matters discussed by the Committee shall be
confined to those upon which the Houses failed to agree and matters affected
by such disagreement.
Article 9. A Joint Committeoman shall be ellowed to speak as often as he
chooses on the same subject.
Article 10. When tho Committee renches a decision, both Committee Chair-
men shall make a written report th reof to their respective Houses.
Article 1l. The minutes of the Committee proceedings, prepared in dupli-
cate, shall be signed by both Committee Chairmen, and each House shall keep a
copy thereof.
Article 12. The minutes shall record the names of the persons present,
the procecdings of the Committee, the number of votes, decisions made, and other
important matters.
Article 13. Cases of misconduct during a meeting shall be reported by the
Committee Chairman of the respective House to the Speaker or President of the
House to which the delinquent member belongs, together with a demand that
disciplinary action be taken.
Articlc 1l. The affairs of the Committee shall be administered by the re-
spective Secretaries of cch House.
6

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.91)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
AyISON oF
DCR
MAY 1 4 1948
No. 241
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, April 22, 1948
SUlJCT: Legislative Sumary of the First Hational Diet.
894.03/4-2248
T.e etin Political adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a Legislative Sumary of the First National Diet for
the period 1.ay 0, 1947 to December 9, 1947, issued by the Gov-
FE
ermment section of this Leadquarters.
nclosure:
rive copies "Leislative
Summary - 1st National
Diet (20 .ay 1047 - 9 Dec-
eber 1947)".
27
2
CS/A
oril amd bzulid to Departuent
28
800 Jpan
QEPAL
JDdrds: e
189
UNCLASSIFIED
894.03

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HTADOUARTERS
SUPRFTIE COIMANDR FOR THT ALLIED POWERS
Governmert ection
2 December 1047
LEGISLATIVE SUTARY - 1St NATI NAL DITT
(20 May 1947 - 9 December 1047)
Parsed by
Passed by
Boards of Cahinet
Irtroduced
H. R.
F. C.
1.
Amend:ent to Law 54 (1947):
Relating to Prohihition
of Private Mononoly, etc.
10 Jul
12 Jul
28 Jul
2.
Law for Houre Regis-
tration of Pers ns Who
Have Lost or Acquired
Memborship in Imperial
Family.
5 Aug
28 Aug
18 sept
3.
Law for Excentions to
Law No. 54 (1947): Re-
lating to Irohibition of
Private Monopoly, etc.
Oct
11 Nov
15 Nov
4.
Bill for Enfcrcement
of Imperial House
Economy Law
14 Aug
29 Ang
18 Sept
5.
Bill for Repeal of
Foreign Trade Associ-
ation Law.
15 Aug
30 Aug
13 Oct
6.
Amendment to Board of
Audit Law.
14 Ang
& Dec
? Dec
7.
Amendment to Pensions
Law
30 Sent
15 Nov
24 Nov
8.
Law for Anpointment, Dis-
missal etc. of Govern-
ment Officials Pending
Application of National
Public Service Law.
16 Sent
1F Oct
16 Oct
9.
National Public ervice
Law.
15 Sent
15 nct
16 0ct

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
Passed
Passed by
Boards of Cabinet Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
10.
Law for Investigating
Board Regarding Currency
Issues.
7 Oct
Dec
9 Dec
11.
Law for State Control
of Mines.
25 Sept
25 Nov
8 Dec
12.
Law for Deconcentra-
tion of coromic Power.
9 Cct
23 Nov
9 Dec
13.
Law to Revise HoLC n-
forcement Ordinance
1A Nov
?? Nov
9 Dec
14.
Law for Terrination of
Zaibatsu Family Control.
25 Nov
9 Dec
9 Dec
15.
Police Law
10 Nov
6 Dec
 Dec
16.
Law for Applicetion of
Urban Pui ding Act.
25 Nov
8 Dec
9 Dec
17.
Law to rotect Government
from Unjust Claims.
17 Nov
8 Dec
9 Dec
3F.
Amendment to Law No. 72
(1947): Concerning Valid-
ity of Crdinances and
Orders under the New
Constitution.
? Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
10.
Liquor Kodan Distri-
butjon Law.
? Jul
9 Dec
9 Dec
20.
Law Amending Tetroleum,
Industrial Reconstruc-
tion. Foreign Trade, and
Fertilizer Kodan Acts.
7 Nov
4 Dec
9 Dec
21.
Decision Concerning Art.
8, New Constitution (Gifts
from Imnerial Family):
14 Aug
29 Aug
18 Sept
22.
Bill fo" Visits and In-
spections of ESB Inspectors. 21 Aug
Not Fassed
22.
Bill for Utilization of
Unused Land for Culti-
vation.
27 Aug
Not Passed
2.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
Agriculture & Forestry
Passed by
Passed by
Ministry
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
1.
La" Amending Settlers'
Fund Financing Law.
9 Aug
23 Sept
22 Aug
2.
Apricultural Seeds and
Seedlings Law.
20 Aug
23 Sept
26 Aug
3.
Agricultural Loss Com-
pensation Law.
20 Oct
20 Nov
24 Hov
4.
Law Amending Special
Measures for Establish-
ment of Owner-Farmers.
6 Nov
4 Dec
8 Dec
5.
Law Amending Agricultural
Land Adjustment Act.
18 Sept
4 Dec
8 Dec
6.
Feed Distribution Kodan
Law.
9 Aug
9 Dec
9 Dec
7.
Grocery Distribution
Kodan Law.
18 Ju1
9 Dec
9 Dec
8.
Oilstuffs Kodan Law.
18 Ju1
9 Dec
9 Dec
9.
Agricultural Cooperative
Association Law.
9 Aug
18 Oct
7 Nov
10.
Law to Enforce Agricul-
tural Cooperative Associ-
ation Law.
9 Aug
18 Oct
7 Nov
11.
Law Abolishing Fertilizer
Industry Control Law and
Japan Agricultural Export
Products Company.
6 Sept
23 ept
5 Nov
12.
Law Transferring Assets of
Agricultural Land Develop-
ment Corporation to the
Govrnment.
2 Sept
15 Nov
5 Nov
13.
Amendment to National
Forest Law.
8 Nov
27 Nov
5 Dec
14.
Amendment to Fishories
Law
14 Nov
2 Dec
8 Dec
7.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
Agriculture & Forestry
Passed by
Passed by
Ministry Con't
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
15.
Amendment to Foodstuffs
Control Law.
5 Dec
9 Dec
9 Dec
16.
Bill for Succession
to Apricultural Assets.
19 Aug
Not Passed
17.
Temporary Agricultural
Production Adjustment
Lew.
? Sept
Not Passed
Commerce and Industry
Ministry
1.
Law Amending Patent,
Utility, Design and
Trade Mark Acts.
12 Aug
19 Aug
29 Ang
2.
Amendment to Solid Fuels
Distribution Kodan Law
10 Oct
2 Dec
9 Dec
3.
Law Reorganizing Physical
and Chemical Research
Institute.
15 Sept
11 Nov
16 Oct
4.
Law. Abolis ing Department
Store Act
20 ept
8 Dec
9 Dec
Communications linistry
1.
Mail Law
1. Nov
27 Nov
5 Dec
2.
Law Amendment to Postal
Savings Act
14 Nov
28 Nov
26 Nov
3.
Amendment to Postal Life
Insurance and Annuities
Law.
27 Nov
4 Dec
7 Dec
Finance Ministry
1.
Amendments to Special
Account Law for the
Mint
1 Jul
12 Jul
25 Ju1
4.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by -Passed by
Finance Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
2. Amendment to Special
Account Law for Re-
ceipts from Capital
Levy Law and Cthers
1 Jul
12 Jul
25 Ju1
3.
Amendment No. 1 to Finan-
eial Institutions Recon-
struction and Reorgani-
. zation Law
22 Ju1
26 Aug
29 Aug
4.
Amendment to eoples'
Cavings Union Law
1 Ju1
2? Ju
8 Aug
5. Law for Transfer, etc. of
Insurance Business of
Central Life Insurance
Corporation and Central
Non-Life Insurance Corpor-
ation.
10 Jul
26 Aug
30 Aug
6. Law Concerning Condition
of Claims of Deposit Bureau,
Ministry of Finance.
6 Aug
3 sept
6 Oct
7.
Amendment to Laborers'
Accident Compensation
Insurance Special Account
Law.
31 Ju1
23 Aug
30 Aug
8.
Amendments to Special
Supply Office Act.
12 Ju1
31 Ju1
1 Aug
9.
Srecial Account Law for
Demand and unply Adjust-
ment of Charcoal and Fire-
wood.
26 Aug
21 Cct
5 Nov
10. Law Concerning Provision
of Pension Law for Calcu-
lation of Years of Service
of Members of International
Telecommunication Co. and
Others Appointed as-Govern-
ment Officials.
22 Aug
15 Nov
24 Nov
11.
Amendment to Reconversion
Finance Bank Law
20 Aug
28 Aug
30 Aug
5.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Passed by
Passed by
Finance Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C
12.
Unemployment Insurance
Special Account Law.
23 Sept
27 Nov
28 Nov
13.
Amendment No. 1 to Trade
Fund Special Account Law.
20 Sept
6 Cct
15 Oct
14.
Lay for Lump Srm Grants
to Government Employees
in Hokkaido.
21 Nov
? Dec
5 Dec
15.
Law for Lump Sum Grants
to Fublic Servants.
30 Sept
15 Cct
20 Oct
16.
Law Regulating Damages
to Subsidiary Coins.
27 Oct
13 Nov
19 Nov
17.
Law Restricting Manu-
facture of Water-Marked
Paper.
27 0ct
13 Cot
19 Nov
18.
Non-ar Sufferers Special
Tax Law.
14 Nov
27 Nov
28 Nov
19.
Anti-Imitation Stamps
Law.
14 Nov
4 Dec
6 Dec
20.
Amendment to Income Tax
Law and Others
14 Nov
27 Nov
28 Nov
21.
Amendment to Law No. 39
(1939): Reduction, Ex-
emption and Postponement
of Tax Collections from
Calamity Sufferers
14 Nov
4 Dec
6 Dec
22.
Amendment (No. 1) of Enter-
prise Reconstruction and
Reorganization Law.
8 Nov
20 Nov
1 Dec
23.
Amendment (No. 2) of Enter-
prise Reconstruction and
Reorganization Law.
8 Nov
4 Dec
9 Dec
24.
Low Designating Yokosuka
and Others as Open Ports.
25 Nov
2 Dec
8 Dec
6.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by
Passed by
Finance Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
25.
Amendment to Customs
Law.
25 Nov
2 Dec
5 Dec
26:
Law for Lump Sum Grants to
Public Servants.
19 Nov
23 Nov
24 Nov
27.
Law for Domestic Trade
Harbor Installations
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
28.
Law Transferring Funds
from Gen ral Account to
Cover Revenue Deficit,
etc.
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
29.
Law for Reconstruction and
Reorganization of Economy
in Consequence of Enforcement
of Law for Deconcentretion of
Economic Pover.
5 Dec
9 Dec
9 Dec
30.
Law Exempting Import Duties
on Foods.
26 Nov
2 Dec
5 Dec
31.
Amendment No. 1.to Food-
stuff Control Special
Account Law (Concerning
Agricultural Loss Com-
pensation Law).
1 Dec
5 Dec
7 Dec
32.
Law for Compensation to
Undemobilized Persons.
3 Dec
6 Dec
8 Dec
33.
Law Concerning Gratuitous
Lending, Transfer, etc.
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
34.
Amendments No. 2 to Finan-
cial Institution Recon-
!
struction and Reorgani-
zation Law.
24 0ct
18 Nov
26 Nov
35.
Law Concerning Subsidy
under Articles 4 and 16
Special City Flanning Law.
3 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
36.
Law for Dividend of Profits
and Others of Corporations.
2 Dec
6 Dec
8 Dec
7.
A

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
Fassed by
Passed hy
Finance Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
37.
Amendment No. ? to Foreign
Trade Fund Srecial Account
Law.
5 Bec
Dec
9 Des
38.
Law for Pavmert of pecial
Allowances for Tax Officials. 2 Dec
5 Dec
7 Dec
39.
Amendment No. ? of Tood-
stuff Cortrol pecial
Account Law
4 Dec
5 Dec
7 Deo
40.
Amendment to lariners'
Insurance Spccial Account
.Low.
5 Dec
6 Dec
9 Dec
41.
Law for Grant by Govern-
ment to rank of Japan
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
42.
Low oncernire Compensations
Granted to ublic Servants
under the Labor Standard
Law and Other Laws
5 Dec
ε Dec
9 Dec
43.
Amendment No. 3 to Fi-
nancial Institution Recon-
struction and Reorgani-
zation Law
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
44.
Amerdment to Law No. 121
(1947): recrujtment,
Appointment, Discharge,
c c. of Gov rnment Ofri-
cials.
5 Dec
6 Dec
8 Dec
45.
Law for pec al Exemption
of Income Tax on Premiums
of Hypothec Bank, etc.
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
46.
Law for Iump Sum Grants to
Government Employees.
F Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
47.
Law for Temporary Interest
Rate Adjustment
6 Dec
9 Dec
9 Dec
48.
Sunplenentary Pudret No. 1,
General Account, Fiscal
Year 1947-48
8 Aug
15 Ang
30 Aug
8.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by
Passed
Finance Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C
40.
Supplementary Fudget No. 3,
General Aecount, Fiscal
Year, 1947-48.
23 Sept
2 Oct
20 Oct
50.
Sunplementary Pudget No.
4, General Account,
Fiscal Yoar, 1947-48.
4 0ct
15 0ct
22 Oct
51.
Surplementory Budget No.
5, General Account, Fiscal
Year, 1047-48.
27 Sept
30 Oct
1 Nov
52.
Surplementary Fudget No.
6, Ceneral Account, Fiscal
Year, 1947-48.
31 Sept
6 Nov
10 Nov
53.
Surplementary Pudget No.
7, General Account, Fiscal
Year, 1947-48.
1 Nov
23 Nov
29 Nov
54。
Supplementary Budget No.
8, General Account, Fiscal
Year, 1947-48.
8 Nov
25 Nov
29 Nov
55.
Supplementary Pudget No.
9. General Account, Fiscal
Year, 1947-48.
27 Nov
? Dec
5 Dec
56.
Supplementary Pudget No.
10, General Account, Fiscal
Year 1047-48.
4 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
57.
Supplementary Budpet No.
11, General Accourt, Tiscal
Year, 1947-4?.
6 Dec
9 Dec
9 Dec
58.
Sunplementary Budget No.
1, Special Account, Fiscal
Year 1947-48.
4 Oct
15 Oct
22 Oct
59.
Supplementary Budget No.
2, Special Account, Fiscal
Year 1947-48
27 Sept
30 Oct
1 Nov
60.
Sunplementary Budget No.
3, Special Account, Fiscal
Year 1947-48
8 Nov
23 Nov
29 Nov
9.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Paesed by
Passed
Finance Ministry Con't
Introduced
H. R..
H.C.
61
Supplementary Budget No.
4, Special Account, Fiscal
Year 1947-48
27 Nov
2 Dec
5. Dec
62. Sunplementary Fudget No.
5. recial Account. Fiscal
Year 1947-48
4 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
63. Amendment to Article 3,
Finance Law
17 Nov
Not Passed
Home Ministry
1.
Amendment No. 1 to
Local Taxation Law
15 ept
? Dec
5 Dec
2.
Amendments to Local
Autonomy Law.
11 Oct
5 Dec
7 Dec
3.
Local Finance Committee
Law.
21 Nov
28 Nov
1 Dec
4.
Law Abolishing Home
Ministry.
21 Nov
2& Nov
8 Dec
5.
Amendments to Laws in
Consequence of Dis-
solution of Home Nin-
istry.
22 Nov
2? Nov
8 Dec
6.
Law Establishing Con-
struction Poard.
? Dec
6 Dec
8 Dec
7.
Law Controlline Popu-
lation Movement to Urban
Areas
25 Nov
4 Dec
2 Dec
8.
National Fire Defonse
Law.
25 Nov
8 Dec
9 Dec
9.
Amendment No. ? to Local
Taxation Law.
5 Dec
6 Dec
8 Dec
Justice Ministry
1.
State Tedress Law
7 Jul
7 Aug
11 Oct
*15 0ct
*Passed by H. R. after H. C. Amendment
10.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
Passed by
Passed by
Justice Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
2.
Amendments to Civil
Code.
23 Ju1
30 0ct
21 Nov
3.
Amerdmerts to Criminal
Code.
Jul
6 0ct
11 Oct
4.
Amdnement to Law No.
63 (1917): Territorial
Jurisdiction of Lower
Courts.
8. Ju]
12 JuI
11 Ju1
5.
Domestic Reletions
Court Law
11 Aug
26 Aug
 Nov
6.
Judges' and Cther Court
Officials'Stetus Law
14 Aug
21 Gct
11 Oot
7.
Cea Casualties Inquiry
Law.
9 Aug
29 Aug
8 Nov
*11 Nov
ξ.
Amendmert to Law No. 11
(1946): ualification
of Lawyers and Probation-
ary Lawyers.
21 Jul
30 Aug
8 Aug
9.
Amendment to Court
Organization Law.
27 Aug
7 0ct
22 Oct
10.
Law for Courts' Reserve
Fund Law.
14 Aug
7 Cct
20 Sept
11.
Amendment to Imperial
Ordinance No. 528 (1923):
Concerning Judicial
Police.
5 Aug
30 Aug
21. Aug
12.
Amendment to Lew No. 4
(1944): Fenal Rcgulations
for Feonomic Affairs
20 0ct
18 Nov
28 Nov
1?.
Law Concerring Disasters
Stipulated in Temporary
Meacures Law for Lease-
hold Land and Leased
Buildings in War Damaged
Cities.
27 Oct
13 Nov
28 Nov
*Passed by H. R. after H. C. Amendment
11.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by
Passed
Justice: Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C
14.
Amendments to Law for
Costs of Action.
19 Nov
27 Nov
1 Deo
15.
Amendment to Family
Registration Law.
18 Nov
27 Nov
5 Dec
16.
Law for Adjustment to
Laws Relating to Civil
Code.
19 Nov
2 Dec
7 Dec
17.
Domestic Relations Court
Law Enforcement Act.
19 Nov
27 Nov
1 Dec
18.
Amendments to Court
Crganization Law.
28 Nov
5 Dec
7 Dec
19.
Law Establishing Attorrey
General's Office.
22 Nov
? Dec
8 Dec
20.
Law for Adjustment of
Laws Fursuant to Estab-
Jishment of Attorney
General's Cffice.
28 Nov
4 Dec
8 Dec
21.
Law Pelating to Author-
ity of Attorney General
in State Interest Cases.
25 Nov
4 Dec
8 Dec
22.
Law for valifications
of Assistant Procurators.
27 Nov
? Dec
7 Dec
23.
Amendment to Judges'
Compensation Law.
3 Dec
9 Dec
7 Dec
Transportation Vinistry
1.
Law Repealing Sripring
Association Law.
11 Jul
7 Aug
25 Ju1
Road Transportation Lew
23 Aug
4 Dec
6 Dec
3.. Road Traffic Control
Law.
19 Aug
7 Oct
15 Oct
4.
Law for Disnosition of
Vessels Abandoned on
Coast of Japan.
14 Aug
30 Aug
30 Sept
12.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
1
Passed by
Passed by
Transportation Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
5.
Amendments to Frivate
Railway Law.
30 Oct
7 Nov
15 Nov
6.
Law Abolishing ortime
Exceptions to Mo iners'
Law.
18 Nov
28 Nov
3 Dec
7.
Law Abolishing Ship-
building Law.
21 Nov
28 Nov
3 Dec
8. Amendments to Ship's
Law and Lew for Safety
Vessels.
5 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
9.
Bill Arending Railway
Onerating Law.
11 ∴ug
30 Sept
Not Passed
Welfare Ministry
1.
Law Abolishing Japan
Medical Treatment Cor-
poration.
26 Aug
23 0ct
11 Oct
2.
Amendment No. 1 to Sea-
men's Insurance Law.
1 Ang
19 Aug
22 Aug
3.
Amendment to Hoalth
Institute Lav.
23 Ju1
9 Aug
21 Aug
4.
Disaster Relief Law.
6 Aug
27 Sept
30 Sept
5.
Employment Security Law.
13 Aug
30 Oct
15 Nov
*20 Nov
Child Velfare Iaw.
11 Aug
26 Aug
21 Nov
7.
Revision of Infectious
Diseases Prevention Law.
23 Jul
9 Aug
21 Aug
8.
Law for Delivery of
Cornses to Medical Schools
Law.
5ug
30 Aug
21 Aug
* Passed by H. R. after H. C. Amendment
2
13.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Passed bý
Passed
Welfare Ministry Con't.
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
9.
Lew Establishing Labor
Ministry.
24 Ju1
7 Aug
26 Aug
*28 Aug
10.
Unemployment Insurance
Law.
28 Aug
15 Nov
21 Nov
11.
Unemployment Allowance
Law.
28 Aug
15 Nov
21 Nov
12.
Nutritionists' Law.
5 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
13.
Riyoshi Law: Barbers,
Beauticians, etc.
5 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
14.
Amendment to .Health
Insurance Act.
14 Nov
28 Nov
28 Nov
15.
Law Restricting Use of
the Emblem and Appellation
of the Red Cross.
4 Nov
28 Nov
3 Dec
16.
Food Sanitation Law.
2 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
17.
Amendment to Medical
Treatment Law.
19 Nov
28 Nov
3 Dec
18.
Amendment No. 2 to Sea-
men's Insurance Law.
4 Dec
6 Dec
9 Dec
19.
Law Controlling Business
of Poisons end Powerful
Agents.
20 Nov
28 Nov
3. Dec
20.
Law for Business of
Massage, Acupuncture,
Moxa-cautery, Judo-
Orthopacdy, dtc.
3 Dec
6 Dec
7 Dec
21.
Law Controlling
Pre-
parations Cther Than
Modicines, etc.
1 Dec
6 Dec
3 Dec
*Passed by H. R. after H. C. Amendment
14.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by
Passed by
House of Representatives
Introduced
H. R.
H. C.
1.
Amendment to Low for
Leasehold Land and Leased
Buildings in War-Damaged
Cities
4 fug
29 Aug
30 Aug
2.
Law for Specinl Allow-
ances to emhers of
National Diet.
7 Aug
9 Aug
12 Aug
3.
Judge Impeachment Law.
22 Aug
23 Aug
22 Dct
4.
La" for Popular Review
of Judgrs.
5 Ang
9 Ang
22 Oct
5.
Amerdrent to Law No. 81
(1947): Payment of Travel
Expenses nd Daily Allow-
ances to  itncsses Called
Before National Diet.
5 Aug
9 Ang
12 Aug
6.
National Election Manage-
ment lection Commission
Law.
29 Nov
2 Dec
3 Dec
7.
Law for Cath and Testimony
of Witnesses in Diet.
6 Dec
8 Dec
9 Dec
8.
Amendment to Law No. 80
(1947): Special Allow-
ances to Diet Members.
4 Dec
4 Dec
5 Dec
9.
Bill Relating to Emergency
Supply of Foodstuffs.
10 Nov
Not Tassed
10.
Eugenics Protection Law
Bill.
7 Oct
Not Passed
11.
Fire Service Bill.
8 Dec
Not Passed
12.
Bill Amending La" for
Organization of inistry
of griculture and
Forestry.
8 Dec
Not Passed
15.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
Passed by
Passed by
House of Councillors
Introduced
H. R.
H.C
1.
Youth Liquor Prohihition
Bill.
28 Ju1
Not Passed
2.
Juvenile Gridance Fill.
29 Nov
Not Passed
Summory of I sisl tion Detailed  ccording to Criginating Agencies
Bill Passed
Bill Not Passed
Boards of Cahinet
21
2
Agriculture-Forestrv Vinistry
15
2
Cormerce and Indnstry inistry
4
Cormunications inistry
3
Finance inistry
62
1.
Bills
47
Budgets 15
Home Vinistry
9
Justice Linistry
23
Transportation inistry
8
1
Wolfare Linistry
21
House of. Repr sentatives
4
House of Councillors
2
174
12
LEGISLATIVE DIVISION
Prepared by:
R. G. Brown
Cant. F.A.
16.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEORAPH
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
ALRGRl-L
FEB 231949
4479
1
DEPARTMENT
USPOLAD, Toky.
A
ACTION:FE
Dated:
February 12, 1949
IMPO
14
DC/R
Date of
SA/M
mailing:
February 12, 1949
EUR/T
Feb 21, 1949, 1:26 pm
OLI
ICTED
Reo'd;
CIA
Office o1
P
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
POB
retery of State,
FEB 231949
AAN
DIRECTOR
Wushington.
Department of State
A=36, Nebruary 12, 1949.
xR
Havin cleoted chirty-five members to the Japanese
ouse of Kepresentatives the Japan Comaunist Party has
894.008
aken druotie steps to keep the comaunist bloo in the
Diet under the strics control of perty headquarters. A
(roup of the newly sleoted communist members of the Diet
has been organized into a speclal comaittee headed by
:r. .'OSmuk. Sanzo for the purpose of keeping control over
2-1249
the comanist contingent. According to the communist
duily, Akubate, r. Nosuka plainly indicated that the
communint Members of the Diet owe their first allegiance
to the communist purty and not to their constituents.
mr. Nosnka'reportedly told the newly orgenized eroup
thet "all Diet membere must act as perty mombers without
alaviah adherence to thelr constituencies". The new Diet
membora will be subject to striot guidance and disoipline
by the party's central qommittee, which will direct their
activities and make all ofrioial statements on behalf of
comm.unist Diet members.
It is believed that the inauguration of such striet
control by the party over communist members of the Diet
will have an unfavorable effect on the communist party.
especially Mr. Nosake's reported admonition that the
firat allegiance of the comunist Diet membe is to the
party and not to their constituenciep. At t we time
this new move by the comaunist party's centr  unittee
will probably stimulate rime Ministor Yoshide'
program
for an intense drive egainst the Jepunese co mumsts.
SEBALD
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R contral Mles with netatien of actlen taken.
H
550.21
CNSpinks:mhp

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.92)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DIVSION OF
NUREAASIAN AFEAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELTDRAPH BRANCH
20 1948
NI OF STATE
FRO
USPOL), Tokyo
2681
jated:
July 9, 1948
ate of tailing
July 10,1948
JONTOATLAL
Ree1:
Ju1 20, 1948
8;4 a.m
Soeretary or tabe
894.03/7-948
ACTION FE
washington.
NFO
DO/R
A-144, July 9. 1948.
s/s
Ir. Mi AI Kazuo, Chief ditor of the MWippon Times, told an officer
OOD
of this Hission on July 7, 1948 that Mr. OXuAkI Katsuo, former Vice
CIA
Minister of Foreign Affairs, is planning to fun for election to the
FC
Japanese National Diet at the first opportunity. Dr. Kawei said that
Ir. Okazaki feels that in order to become Hinister of Foreign Affairs
it is necessary to have political experience. It will be recalled that
Er. Okazaki was appointed to his post in the inistry of Forein Affairs
by hr. YoshID. Shigeru, wihen the Latter ms Prime Hinister. Should the
Jemocratic Liberal Party, of which  Yoshida is President, return to
power, it is considered possible that r. Ckazaki uight become Kinister
of For i.n ffairs. Accordin to r. Kawai, every Thursday Ir. Okazaki
discourses to the  peror on events of importanee throughout the world
and on their sinificance with respect to Japan.
G.BALD
803
MiLawrence,dr,:cs
AUG 2 1948
HH
CONFIDLITIAL
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.85)
Nwo
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OF
YORTHEASASIAN AFTA
NA
Notel-fer
18
894.03/2-1249
xR
894.00B
MAP 19
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
H

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
UHARIMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
DEC1-1949
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DIVISION OF SBCURITY
5.
18 November 1949
DC/R
(NA)
Mr. John M. Allison
Director, Office of Mortheast Asian
Affairs
New State - Room 3257
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Allison:
A request has come from the General Headquarters, Supreme
894.03/1
Comnander for the Allied Powers to arrange for a visit of
approximately fifteen members of the Japanese Diet for the
following purpose:
"To observe and study the U.S. Congress and the
operation of its committee system, the organization and
operation of state legislatures, and the operation and
functioning of political parties in the U.S. for compara-
tive study in connection with the development of Japan's
parliamentary system."
1849
It is proposed to arrange the forty-five day visit for
sometime between 15 February and 15 April 1950. The delegation
would be accompanied by representatives of the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers and all arrangements will be handled by
0
the Department of the Army.
C
E
FL
CS/ M
131949
This letter is to request approval by the Department of
State for this project.
Sincerely yours,
225195
Bynca
G. P. LYNCH
Colonel, GSC
Chief, Reorientation Branch

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.85)
11/25/49
OF STATE
tR:
I wonder if
4 sdaned

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
NOV 251945
In reply refer to
NA
Dear Colonel Lynoh:
With reference to your letter of November
894.03/1
18 requesting State Department approval of the
visit of approximately fifteen Japanese Diet
membere to the United States next spring, you
may be assured that thie project has the Depart-
ment'e full support.
1
1849
Pleace let me know if, in any way, this
office can be of assistanoe to you in conneotion
with the vieits.
m
Sincerely yours,
CS/M
John M. Allieon
Director,
Office of Northeaet Asian Affairs
Colonel G. P. Lynch, GSC
the sd ig
Chief, Reorientation Branoh,
RES
NOV 35 1949RM.
Offioe of the Under Seoretary,
Department of the Army.
mg.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
H.
2
11/22/49
