894.9111 Public Press., Newspapers., Japan, Clippings And Items., January 19, 1946 - February 8, 1949 (File 1692)
ID: 894.9111-1692   Pages: 254   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.9111-public-press-newspapers-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
dup
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ALLIED TRANSLATOR AND INTERPRETER SECTION
PRESS
NS
No.: 824
E:19 Janury 1946
MAR2 1946
.3W
LOE STATE
POLITICA
199
ITEM 1 Inperi 1 Ordinance or Purge Directive Droftei-The Minichi-6 January
1945. Tr nsl tor: HlR..T:. Shczo.
Full Transla ticn:
Th Governnent has irafted the Iperial Ordinance or the "purge direct-
ive", and it was subnitted for examination to the Cabinet Council which
net cn Tuesday. fter nendnont cf its phraseclogy it will shortly be
presented tc sc.p. s scon as rerrissien is a t ined. it will be refer-
red to the Frivy Council for his M jesty's saneticn. According to the
presont Imperial Ordinance, cffici ls ab ve CHO ANIN rank will be closely
exanined by ths questi"nn ire, nd thesc affected -ill be remved from
their p sts at the discreticn f the Prime Minister.
Mrecver, false statenents r concealment f facts mill be punished either
by pon l sarvitude cr impriscnnent, net exceeding ne year, cr by a fine
not exceeding 3. CCc yen. .s regaris the cfficinl repcrt to SC F, the
same penal rule vill be applied. igain, as regards the general elestien
tue Gevernment -ill require
rep rt by the election chief cn the candi-
dates qualificaticns.
The full text of tho I perial Ordiance is s follcws:
rtiele I. Tacse hon th: Prine Minister desiguates as liable under
itens of the directive concerning remvel from cfficial pests are as
fellows: Officials hose participaticn in the public servise is not
suitable are prohibited frcm taking official posts (that includes per-
scns on the beards and staffs of companies ani cenpany directers, mem-
bers of as cciaticns and cther bodies vhich belcng to the speoial fin-
ancial control of Governmant offices), or to be ap cinted mayors or
members cf the Imperial Diet. Thcse above CPoKUNIN or its correspond-
ing rank ho d not hold official posts (That includes members of beards
and staffs of companies nd cther corporations established in accordance
A1
with special laws vhich the Frine Minister designates) should be dis-
charged or retire frcm cffice. As regaris members of the Imperial Diet,
they shcu li forfeit membership. In case circumstances arise which
make it difficult to replace those affected by the ebeve clause, it is
possible to retain or reappcint then as deternined by the Frime Minister,
in spite of she stipulaticns of the above clause.
894.9111
These the retired from cfficial posts, or lose their positin by the
stipulations of the first clause, are prchibited from receiving not
only official but alsc private pension anniuities, cr cther allowances
cr gratuities, with the ercepticn of special cases designated by the
Frime Minister,
UR
DEC 10 1948
FILED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
POLITICAL S RIES: 199 (Continued)
ITEM 1.(Continued)
Article II. Those liable under the directive are prchibited fren
beconing candidates, as laid do n in the House of Peers Court and
Baron Members Election Rule or House of Feers Imperial Academy Members
Election Rule cr House of Feers High Taxpayers' Electien Rulo. On
precaring the list of electcrs in Article IV cr Article xxxix of the
House cf Peers High Taxpayers' Election Rule, prefectural governers
sheuld make those, ac are mutual election representatives, give decu-
mentary prcf that they are not liable under the direciive.
In case prefectural governcys find it difficult to ascertain the status
cf electors under the directive, they should send a pepert, along ith
the dceunents mentioned in the above ciause, to the Prime Minister.
threugi tae He re Minister, fer a f nal decisicn.
The stipulatiory cf the abcve tyc clauses ill alsc be applied in the
electicn of ccuat and barer mombera of the House of Feers or the election
of Imperial Academy Members ef the House of Pears.
However, it is net ner ssary for the prefectural governers to refer
the documents to the Hore inister, men they a ply the rule as returning
officers.
Article III. The reper s cr re or vniation rep:rt: of candidates,
stipulated in claus i cr ii cf Avicle LxvIi or the Menrers of the House
of Representacive Election Liw (herpafter abbi eviarei as repert er recom-
mendatien repert), is to be accepied by the ciection chief. This docu-
ment, which is sufficient to certify that the porson tho is to be a
canditate is not liabl unden the stipulaticns cf Article I, shculd be
simultaneously produced.
Unless th: election chief ascerteins hether the person, tho is to be
candidate, is liable under Article I, he is prchibited frcn accerting
his report cr recomendation report. If it is ifficult to ascertain
whether cr net the persen is liable under Article I, he should send the
repert, together with the dccunant mentioned in the abeve olaus:, to the
Prime Minister through the Home Minister in crüer to receive the Cabi-
net's instructions.
Article IV. The varicus ministries should acguire the necessary quss-
tionnaire concerning th: application of tn: provisions of Article I
as laid de-n by the Trime Minister.
Article V. False statements cr supprossicn cf facts entered in the dc-
cument, or in the quesuionnaire mentiered in tne aheve erticle, will
be punish d sither by penal servitude, r inpvisonnent net cxceeding
one year, cr by a fine net sxce ding 3, ooo yen. In the case of the
vericus ninistries presenting reperts to Scir in accordance mith the
directive menticned in Article I. e rans pule iil be afplied mith
regard tc false statements or surpr: sicn cf facts in their reperts.
N.B. This Ordinance ill e put inte offoet frcn the day cf promulgation.
ITEM 2The First Central Executive Comnittee of Thc Social Democratic Farty-The
Asahi Shimbun-17 January 1946.  Translator: S. KAva3 KI.
Full Translation:
The Prcblem of the Frosidency of The Farty Tas Net Touched Upen.
The irst Contral Executive Comnittee meeting of the Social Demccratic
Party was held at the TOKYO KURAMM? Industrial Hall at 1000 cn 16 January
-2-

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
POLITICAL SERIESI 199 (Continued)
ITEM 2 (Continued)
in crder to deal vitn such subjects as the ocmplicated and delicate
situation within the Party, the probloms invalved in the democratic
front, and preblems connected ith the Emperer Systen. Chief Secretary
KATAYAMA and a`xut 80 impcrtant Farty members were present.
it tne meeting the felloving itoms were dealt vith: l. Repert cf gene-
r 1 affaire (by KATiy m); 2. Informatica abcut the crganizaticn (by
ASANU.M); 3. Methods for f rmal permission fr dandidature (by HIPANO);
4 Pclicies to be mde publis in the fcrthcoming general electien (by
SUZKI); 5. Jeint campeign itn the Comminist Party (by NIHIO); 6. The
Enp rer Systen ani the reformatien of the constituticn (by KATAYiMa).
Varied questions an? cpinicns re vciced on the a'ove subjezts by
several persons, including Mes rs. OXD4, Sosshi; SHIMaK MI, Zengero:
ONO, Shunichi; DRITC, Tatsuc, and otners. The meeting adjourned at 1600.
The joint campaign vith the Communist Party and the prc len of the
Emperer Systen mere expected to be discussed bit nothing mas said on these
probloms, varicus relicies era reaffirmed as fcllcws.
"The domocratic front can be made streng onty by the Social Demccratic
一人
Farty enerzetically enccuraging it. Cppor:rrities will be greater
after the establisament cf the 'arty's princirles and the general elec-
tien. The Emperer, whc has a pert of tue soverign power, should be
maintained, and the suprene porer should rest with the stete."
Tho gucstion as to tue presideney of tae Farry has net yet been decidet
becaus, of the presont stete of affairs, and it has been agreed that
things vill continusi as thsy ere at present. For this reason the question
was not breugat up at the meeting.
ITEM 3 Emperer Systep in the Constituticn-isahi Shinbun-17 January 1946.
Translator: T. KIT.Y..
Sumrary:
The SHIDa. Cabinet nas deoided to carry cut the. zeneral election and
the ork cf revising the onstitutic, by recenstructing the Cabinet.
State Minister witheut Fertfclic ATsuvoTo has remained in office, in
consideration of th: inportance of his rcls in revieng the Constitution,
and is dov ting himself tc finishing the draft. In this way the SHIDEH. RA
Ca pinst has nade its intentions kncim and -ill face the noy session of
the Dict with MiTsUNoTo's draft of the rovised Constitutien as cne of
its chief reapens.
The representativerhe vill comprise a ccmmittos tc investigate the
Constitutional Revisien ill in the ceming session of the Diet vill
be selected in the ganeral plestion which is to be held afterthe middle
of March. It is doubtful thether the political parties and the Nation.
at this time wher the so oral glection is just ahead, are fully censcious
of the fact that the general cliction is of tne utmest importance.
Onecf the main reasons for revisic of the Censtitution is, of ccurse,
to solve the problom cf the Tmperer S sten. e sheuld like to ask if
the electers, and those to be alected, are fully aware of the great
impertance of this preblem. The problem of the Emperer System should
be taken up fcr discussion, first cf all, by considering the demcrati-
zation of the p litical system f this ccuntrv. at the same time the
Emperer Systom is a problem entrusted, by the PorsDaM Declaration, to
cur Nation fer scluticn. How to selve the problem constitutes th: fun-
damental question of demccratizing the Nation. In this dual sense,
-3-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
POLITIC.L SERIES: 199 (Continued)
ITEM 3 (Continued)
each individual must deliberately investigate this prcblem, reach his
om conclusicns, and make use of the cppertunity cf publicizing his
ideas in the ccming general electicn. cccrdingly, all the parties are
cbliged to clarify their attitudes toward this problem, and the discu-
ssions cn the problem of the Emp ror Systom shculd become mere interesting
than ever.
Allied Headquarters has is ued directive after directive ccncerning the
Emperer system, particularly these directing the cissclutien cf mili-
tary units, abclition of the s crot police, discentinnuance of State
SHINTC, etc. Thus, the Emperer System, as a nucleus of the feudalistic
and bureaucratic Government, has already disappeared. The Emperer
Systen, cperating on a basis of deccracy, is another question which is
to be sc ved by the free iil of th: Nation, in the light cf the POTS-
D.! Declaration.
The Emperer issuod an Inperial Rescript on New Year's Day in hich he
expressed his ideas, sayiny that it vas erronecus to regard the Emper-
or as a divinity and tiat it vas also a nistako tc consider the tie
botween the Emperer and the Nation as divinoly created. Fertaining to
this, General ac RThR states in appreciative satisfactien that the
Enperer clarifi a his c'n stanopint along lilseral lines. In this
manner a net foundation fer the Emporer Systen sheuld be laid, net
upen any divine cr absclute prenises, but upcn a domcratic structure.
The Emperer's Status in the Constitution
He, then, should the status of the mperer in the demecratic Gevern-
ment be consid red? Moreeven should the Emp rer System be centinued
for carrying cut  demcratic revcluticn? Opinion thrcuzhout the ccuntry
is concentrated upen thi" problen. Vieving the attitude of the Govern-
ent and of the political perties,  find tnat the Communist Farty was
the enly one that advocated tne axlitien of the nperer System. 3ut
this Party, taking advantage of Noz.k.'s return, has manifested a
politically significantattitude by saying than, thugn the party is
against the Enperer Cysten as a naticnal systen, the continuance of the
Inperial Househcld is ancther thing which is to be determined by the
Nation's free i!l.
In contrast to this attitude f the Com unist Party, the Pregrossive
and Liberal Farties, as stated befere, have given no explanatien ex-
cept to orpress themselves as advccating the maintenance of the national
pclicy, ma'ting it clear that they suppert the Emperer Systen. The
Social Demecratic Farty insists that the Emperer System should be con-
tinued, but -ith the Empercr's sovercignty irastically limited.
DISTRIBUTION "X"
-4-

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
ALLIED TRANSLATOR AND INTERPRETER SECTION
PRESS TRANSLATIONS
No.
862
DATE:
20 Jan 46
E.E.W
POLITICAL SERIES :
209
ITEM 1
The Emeror S sten by Fo uchi, Hachiro - Mainichi Shinbun - 17 Janu-
ary 197. Trynslator: 3. Hirata.
N1
Full Translation:
I. The E peror Systen Re resentin. the Interest of Landowners and
Fourgecisie.
Although democretie reforms are urged by the llied owers, JAFAN is
still controlled by : co:bination of three fectors, namely, the ab-
solutiss of the Enperor system, lendounership by landlords and ex-
clusive capitalism. Here in JArA, the im ericlistic financial oli-
carchy combined with the totelitarian bureaucracy has established the
most singular polity in the history of the world. It is this very
state which becrme a reactiorery element of the world, side bv side
vith Cnu ANY and IT LY, ani here, the dictatorshin of landowners and
bourgecisie over the working clcss, no less than the fescism of othe
canitalistic countries, has been estatlished. This pelitical struc
ture was establis ed by the Imperiel Constitution promulgated in 18-
90. It is a political organization based on absclutism which claims
the Enperer to be the sovereign and the owner of su reme authority.
It is this  eror system which formed the closest and most permenent
bloc with the upper menbers of bourgeoisie and landormers. Represent-
ing the interest of these two classes with consider: ble flexibilitv
this system maintains an absolutist cheracter somewhat dis uised by
a constitutional appeararce. That the mperor system is still in
ferce as the expressicn cf Japanese imperialsim shovs that the par-
ticular economic and social foundetion of this absolutism is still
firmly in power. In order to augment the di nity of the Tmperor,
many fables, gloriaus rites, Shintois, end the Legend of"the field
in the heaven" (from which the forefethers of the peror deseended)
etc., were devised. It is becruse of the educrtion 1 end punive
system that such fables as even primary schcol chilcren promptly s-
pect, can openly pass, but fundamentally it is due to the exitten
of the singular basis of the m eror sustenm. Voreover, it is ben
ficial to the class of landowners and bourgeosie to maintain este
on this footing. According to Hy's femous ords, "Constition
is the system of mediation." In JA.An, as in old PRUSSIA, the joint
interests of the landoners and bourgeoisie were fostered by the me-
diation of the Enperor systen, and Japanese capitalism end imperialism
has been formed, established and ceveloped under the ruardianship of
this svster..
II. Absolutism in JAPAN.
forcibly fos-
tcred by militaristic cepitalisa thriviny on the land of half serfish,
s. all cultivators. But it was developed he MEIJT C
ment which
was formed as the result of the Pestoration
litical form of bsolutism that succeeded the Serf system under the
2
C
0
S
f
Ca
Dis!

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
POLITICAL SERTES: 209 (Continued)
ITE1
(Continued)
TOKUGAWA Regime on a nation-wide scele. In the final stage of feuda-
lism, the absolutism, on the whole, in accordance witl the develop-
meni of a productive acde of capitalism, destroys the antiqueted feu-
del syste, carries out the netional uni"icction and exists in the
form of unific tion of the nation under the bourgecisie. It stands
upon a feudel or semi-reudel footing, acts as the source of the in-
trinsic acquisitiveress of capitelism and works as the compelling
economic force and as the sunpressive organ of resistance of the fer-
mers and urben workers.
It is this state-structure acting as & military power thet constructs
wers for com ercial ambition. It tlwavs eppears at the stage of im-
perialistic development of capitalis: in vorld histroy. (In ENGLAND,
since 1485, cnd in FrANC3 since 1570.) As 1cns as it tries to maintain
and to strer then the half-serfish state-forn of feudelism, it is ne-
cessary for countries vhere capitrlisn is hig ly developed (as in
E'GLArD ind FR/YCE) to carry out fundamentel sociel reform in order
to develop capitalis". On the contrary, in courtries such as PPUS-
SIA, RUS3IA, etc., wher e the grovt! oi bour reoisie was retarded,
even the importation nd itherence of cepitalistic production meth-
eds as cerried cut by absel tism itself, keeving ce with the de-
velopment of vorld ecorony. This was enforced in the field of mili-
taristic capitalis in pccordance wit. the character and necessity
of absolutism. h ecre, Wi.en capit lism began to decline and the
activities of absolutis: vere  stricted in development, both capi-
telism and absolutism were devoid of their cepacity to carry out
drestic reform for fear oi or esi g prclet rien forcns. Hence, demo-
cratic reform was achieved only by ths forccs fron below.
Japenose absclutis: wes estatlished after tle iddle of the l9th cen-
tury in 1863 when world capitalisn hrd Iread" fully developed. Thus
the ctpitrlism which it onented was exclusively militrristic, end
this militaristic capitaliso achicved its development by relying on
the absolute Enperor syote, end ade further progress alons the
lines cf imcrialistic policy. Absolutism is the st te-form prior to
capitalism in the history of the werld, but in this courtry it de-
veloped very cuickly into the inperialistic stage that is the highest
form of capitalism. It hes an epoch-making meaning in the history cf
the world, more important than that of RUSSIA, in its feithful prose-
cution of exclusive crpitelism as vell :s in its formine the reaction-
ary force in th. vorld by the combinatien of the cbove tvo factors.
III. The Development of Absclutisn in JAPAN.
That the Japanese stat e-structure adepts the forn of the Tmperor sys-
tem and that, based on such & foundation, it tak's the dictatorial
form of landoners and beurgeoisie, shov's the fact that the sconomic
and material foundatien of the Ewperor system consists in the semi-
Ioudal xploitatior ani suppressicn of the people. In fact, the fi-
nancial policy adopted o the absclute peror systen, when first es-
tablished, wes nothing brt & rearrangement of the fuudel tribute sys-
tem which had been the explcitaticn policy of the dofunct Shogunate
Covernment. Conseguently, the natio- ile ricts b the farmers vhich
broke out iron 1369 to 1874 ag: inst the overmment's harsh exploita-
tion afterwards beeere e strug le are inst lanolerds, governors and
usurcrs.
The time-old tribute systen was ebolished by the land tex refcrm in
1873 becausc it was more suited to the pur cse of furth rin? capita-
lism. Thus, a modorn tributo system was cerried out on a nation-wide
scale, but no substantial decrcase took place in the Covernment's rev-
enue. Added to that, in the enforcement of the land tax reform, the
landowners monopolized the possession of land in which beth thc land-
owners and cultivetor farmers were interestcd, and in cases where the
pormanent tonancy had been established, by fortifying the landowners!
class structure, it adopted a measure to socure its ovn position. Such

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
POLITICAL SERIES: 209 (Continued)
TE1 (Continued)
being the c:se, the farmers' r volt was directed against this confis-
cation of th: ri ht of cultivation, the new land-tex end other mis-
celiancous taxes. They clso rosc agcinst the conscription crdinance
and labor-exomption tex, etc., until varicus revolutionary cempaigns
for the cause of freudon nd civil rirht vere carried out between
1822 end 1834. (E.., th. FUKUSHDA Incident, the KABAYAA Incident
and the CHICHIBU Piot, etc.) Aftorwards, tho governaent taxetion svs-
tem was reiormed in accordence  ith the development of cepitelism,
and the status of land-t-x and countrv-tax was lowered. But feude-
lism cnd the cloit:tion by the state which retains the cheracter
of tribut still cxist today, end the vhole bureeucratic adrinistra-
tion has boen utilized for tax ccllection. As regards the cxploita-
tion of firm rs, the pr fectural duty specially vas the object of
heavy taxotion; nd, bove cll, the levviny svste: by the number of
houscs vas its chiracteristic fcru.
In th. r of TAIsHo which ontered wpon the incrirlistic stage, the
forrers' moveant becime active ccin, end ferrerst associctions were
orgenia d cll over th. country. In allianee vith the urben proletar-
inn cl: ss, they bgen to fi ht egeinst the cdrinistretive power. The
umperor gov rnment b th military clique end bureeuerees succeeded
for t time in su presein? this movement by fcrce, but as soen as they
started wr ror th ir s lri h urposes, tiy doubl d the exploitction
of ferrors be fere cnd fr udulenee. Thus, the requisition of rice
from th. cople cnd the co u cory trons ort:tion of rice hev. been
cniorced.
This bsclutist ploitation wes cir:cted not on ainst f rmors
but rlso agcinst srcll urban produc rs, work. s nd evon erinst
fisherren. Indir ct dutics on corsu ption wr cstc lished in various
absolutist countries in western EUmoPE, nd were adopted in JAPAN as
carly es ls6s. Aft r the trx tion systom vrs i perialistically re-
adjusted, duties ere cnlrrg d xtensively end brought up to detc.
The utilizction oi the weters surrounding JAPAN is nonopolized by
the stcte, (nd the fishormer cre liable to pay trx on fishiny rights..
But thes. cr: cthor rorms of f udelism in cperction. Howev'r, that
foudelism hes vorked in e more forcible rnner upon the coloni-l peo-
ple is tostificd to by th nu b r of tcts of "high trecson" porpo-
treted net only crinst the ove nment under th aperer system, but
also cinst th amp ror hins.lf by th p oplerd revolutionists in
KOREA Or FCTIMCSA.
IV. The Basis of th. Emperor Systom; the Burccueratic Policy.
When c cortcin cless oi puople is protected end bunefitt d by this
systen, such c cl-ss becorks the bulwerk of th p ror system in
ll metters of xeloitation nd requisitioning. ith th. xccption
of the poor fermer cless, on. r-iarm rs of the midel. cnd upper cless
in small nd isolct. d rurel comruniti's form th socirl focting of
the Pmperor systen as its meinstey beeruse of the poworful patrier-
chel syste cmen: those ho lec representetiv:s for th ir int rests.
Hovover, this middle cless oi o ner-fraors begn to collapse r pidly
since the MEIJI Ere due to the intrinsie cccuisitiveness of cbsolutism
ind to th. increas d eploitetion by th copitclists. If only to pro-
toct the foundations of bur cuerrcy to r vent cellrpse, so e efforts
heve been mede fer this cless since tihe middl. of the MirJI Fre.
The some thing my be said about smrll urban merehonts end producers.
Principal rolief meesures which were taken by the bur cucrats cre cs
follows: 1. Trust Compony Law after the ponic in 1@90 end 1897; 2.
Co acrcial Association Lew; 3. Cvmer-Ferming Establishment Law in
th. postwer penic poricd since 1920; 4. Industricl Associrtion Lew;
5. the lrnd-tex reform in the country-wide panic period since 1929;
6. concession rnd alleviation from the prefectural tax and the cho-
lition of the tertion system by the number of houses; 7. the Indus-
tri1 ssoci tion ove nt; 9. Commercirl Associrtion ov ment; 10.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
POLITICAL SERI S: 209 (Continued)
7
ITEA
1
(Continued)
the cstablishaont of the Northeastern Bure u; 11. the Cercal Price Ad-
justuont Law; 12. the Price of Threrd Stabilization Lav, ctc.
Trrmors nd the petty bourgeoisic put considurable feith in those re-
li.f mo sur. s. Notvithstondin, :bsolutist bur aucrats knew full well
thrt th.se rorsures could not ive holp to the fermers end petty bour-
sucisie who hd been their mrinstay. ccordingly, thew found their
supporters in rich middle class farriers or small urben producers,
and dopt d c policy which plrced the striss upon the protoction of
potty nterprise oporeted by parasitic londowners end by the foudel
whel sele system. But the milit ry cliqu. end the absolutist buroau-
crrts, on secins th't the cbove policy vas insufficient to secure a
bosis for itsclf, inv: dd CHINA end FANCHURIA dircctly by the force
o. trms. The lnd which they plundered from the people in these
countries wes civn to rm d immigrents from JAPAN.for the cstablish-
ment there of  puppet state which they pretonded to be the model
kingdom. It resulted in the present ci tastrophe, end the hope of re-
h-bilitrtion is tornolly lost for th: mperor systom.
(To be continued.)
Mr. NOAUCHI, she :riter oi this crticle, cr du-ted from the TOKYo
Imperial University in 192?, pr-cticed es c progrossive solicitor
for  time, is nov  merber of the ocirl cienee Investigetion Insti-
tute nd concurrontly nobr of the CHI7 Inv stigction Institute.
As a vriter, h contributid to " rolct rien cierce," "The Economic
Eoview," und "The Sci:nce of Wistery."
DISTRTBUTICY: "K"

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
: FC - Arederick B. Lyon
DATE: March 1, 1946.
FROM : JK - Sdwin . lartin
sUBJECT: bistribution of Japanese Press Translat ons.
I am attaching neret) sample copy of the "Fress Translations"
prepared fror ca anese nenspapers by sen ral Headpuarters, Supreme
Commander for the allied owers. These documents contain much use-
894.9111/3-146
ful nformation 1 a nignly up-to-uate nature concerning Japanese
indus trial anu econonic matters.
Tnasauch as J nas, as you nos, responsibility for all economic
mat ers pertainin, to Ja an and Yorea it s essential that current
inforration ne continuously available to us and that it reach us as
soon as possinle. vou will note from the attached sample of the
Fress ranslations that this ne copy is routea to six other Divisions
of the Department and unaer present methods of distribution must be
shared with them.
Would it be possible for your Division to make the appropriate
arrangerents for J to receive its own individual copy of the docu-
ments in this series either by altering the internal distribution
of the document within the Lepartment or by securing adoitional copies
from the War pepartment?
CS/V
Enclosure:
tated above.
NAR
1946
201

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.76)
∴Nu93.
15
This deapotoh adegutely
summis the Scap
 whh
it transnits.
Mhes is me wany 
combatt abanteciom
and  atna lging the
mane latn pice 

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
De
DIVISIOOF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JAN 1 5 1948
UNITED STA1. 'S POLITICAL ADVISER
PCG JAPAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
NO. 14
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, Japan, January 6, 1948.
Subjeet: Press Release Concerning Corrective Rationing Measures Taken
+R
in Hokkaido.
891.5018
894.9111/1-648
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five copies
of the text of an announcement made to the press by Mr. J. C. TwImim,
an official of the Price Control and Rationing Division of the Eoonomis
and Scientific Section of this Headquarters, concerning improved dis»
tribution of supplemental food items to coal miners in Hokkaido. Such
items have been allocated for use in coal-mining areas by the Japanese
Government as incentives to inspire increased coal production.
Kr. Twinem stated that "local food committees...and other organ-
izations must make mining communities realize the joint responsibility
of labor, management and government to insure that preferential rations
result directly in more coal being produced". He announeed that
corrective measures have been taken in Hokkaido to insure that supple
mental food rations are given only to miners who do a full dayts work
OE
or achieve individual production quotas, and that absentee miners are
A-S
no longer receiving supplemental rations. In addition, he stated that
ED
underground workers are to receive more incentives than surface workers.
(It is understood that there is an excess number of surface workers in
proportion to underground workers.)
CS/A
DC/R
070
Enclosure:
11
Text of a press release,
jile
December 23, 1947, issued
by General Headquarters,
Far East Command (five copies).
8
PBS
1948 FEB 5
Original and ozalid to the Department.
891/869.1
RHBushner/blc
FB 18 1948
TIONAL TRADE
AN 11 49
UNCLASSIFIED
FILED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COI MAND
Public Information Office
1630
Press Relcase:
23 Decemb:r 1947
GENERAL LACA THUR: ISSUES CHRISTIAS GREETINGS TO LELBERS OF: FEC
General MacArthur today issucd thc following statement:
I send each of
"To all remb rs of the For East Command:
you my cordirl Christmas grcetings, with the carnest hopc that the
New Year mill bring you henlth, hapriness nd that personal satis-
foction vhich alone springs from loyal and courageous service. .I
join "ith your loved ones at homc in pride and gratitude for that
excmplory menner in which you are cdvancing the causc of human
freedom through dcvotien to thosc immutable conecpts which underlie
the Christian faith. Douglas Macarthur"
M ssoge From G neral Eichelberger
HI ADQUA TFFS FIGHTH ARLY, YOKOHAMA--Lt. Gon. Rob rt L.
Eichelbcrger, Eighth Army Commander, issued th: following
Christmas message to ll trocps of the Eighth Army:
"Whilc on tomporary duty in the United St tes, I found the
Amarican peoplc cognizent of the splondid r sults you have attained
in the occupation of Jopan. This inspring record gava me a deep
fecling of pride in being  merber of the Eighth Army and I offer
to onc and all my h orty congrotul-tiens on ycur cchieverents.
"To ach of you I xtond my arn st wish that your holiday
season will be  hoppy one. I knov that during the coming y ar
you will continu to cnjoy th f cling of sotisf ction and soldierly
pride which corys from loyal and chc rful s rvice to one's country."
Mcssage From Genoral Whitcheed
Lt. Gen. Ennis C. Whit head, Corranding G.ni ral FLAF,
today issu d the following m ssage:
"On this, the third Christmas sincc the fighting cnded in World
Wor II, I extind my sincerest gre tings to all personnel of the Far
Enst Air Forces, whether they be in Jrpan, Southern Korea, on Guam,
in the Philiprinus, on Okinava, or on other Pacific islands far
from home.
1
"Christm's is a sp cial kind of holiday for Americans. Christ-
mas is the day on which wc look to relatives nd friends at home;
no mtt r how rany thousands of nil's separat: us. And they lock
to us, as we cxchange gre tings and thoughts of love and devotion.
2
(morc)
(over)

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
"To us here in the Air Force, Christnas is, and lways will be,
a cherished tradition which we have fought to preserve. Christmas
is a time for unsclfishness. It is part of the democracy we are
now engaged in teaching end dcmonstrating here in Sapan and
the Pacific.
"Christmos is the rominder that a New Ycar soon follows.
Wc must turn our cfforts tomard the compl: tion of a job not yet
finished. Moximum effort by ach person in the Air Forcc will
help to aehiuve a successful and prosptrous peace.
"As Commanding G neral, and as a friend, I cxtend my warmest
holiday gr tings t each of you."
M sscge From G.ncral Chose
WITH THE EIGHTH ARILY IN TOKYO--MJ. Gon. William C. Chas,
Corronding G n ral of the 1st Cav:lry Divisicn, today issu d the
following Christr's m ssag to all troop rs, cfficcrs and dependents
cf his Division:
"At this Christrastide, I xt nd to -ll troopers, officers,
and th ir farili's of the 1st Cav-lry Division ny best vishes for
 merry Christras nd a harpy N-w Y or, and ry sinccre appreciation
for a year of cecur ticn duti s  1l dene.
"With hop in our h  rts th-t this Christmes will mark a rile-
stone in the ind vers of -1l good r n to bring p ncc and prosperity
to rnkind,  stond on th thr shold cf  N.w Yior.
"Ye r joice this Christras that  ar at pence, and that our
people, with th cnlightenn nt, re striving to hoal the vounds
of war and to bring to 1 ss fortun-t peoples th h lp and enccur-
ngirent thcy n.od to frcc th futur: ith hepe of bright r days.
For the World is in n a of that b nevel nec of thought and action
tought by Hir vhost birth e cormerornt on the joyous cccasien
of Christmas.
"Mey w, in the coming yeor, s  the fruitien of the gr at
prerise cf pecc on rth and gend will tow rd men which lics in
th: gocd di ds of those he foiio th: xanpl of the Prinee of
P. acc."
M ssoge Fror G n r-1 Griswold
The following m ssage was teday issusd by Hoj. Gen. Francis
H. Grisweld, Com anding G nerol, MfBo, and Trenti th Air Force:
"The close of 1947 finds rany of us suparated from our
forilies nd lov:d on s. W.. are faccd vith problens, some old,
sore new, all requiring solutions in crd r to insure thet ve retain
the bility in y ars to c re of wishing cach other the jeys of the
sunson. Th re is no need to call tt ntien to the present critical
world situntion; threugh pr ss nd r-dic it is spparent te ll of us.
"During th. fortheoring Christrns and Num Year, I vish you all
h alth, freedor fror vant, end joy in th knowledg. that you are
contributing your shere toward  b tt r world and a better place
to livc.
"Mry God be vith you."
-0-
-2-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
8.
SCAP OFFICIAL LECLARES CORRLCTIVE RATIONING
MEASURES HAVE BEEN TAKEN IN HOKKAIDO
Corrective measures have been taken in Hokkaido to insure
that supplemental food rations go only to miners who do a full
day's work or achieve individual production quotas, a SCaP
rationing official said today.
J. C. Twinem of the Price Control and Rationing Division,
Economic and Scientific Section, who recently returned as a
member of the special fact-finding production team in Hokkaido,
said these measures were taken by accompanying Japanese food and
clothing representatives.
The official said there was no shortage of food for Hokkaido
coal miners on a district level, but that distribution of
supplemental items, especially miso, shoyu and fish, could be
improved within mines and mining localities.
"Local focd committees are doing a gocd job in correcting
inequalities in distributirn," Mr. Twinem said. "They and other
organizations must make mining communities realize the joint
responsibility of labor, management and government to insure
that preferential rations result directly in more coal being
produced."
The cfficial listed four recent improvements of staple
supplementary food rations in Hokkaido:
l-Rationing differentials were revised in some instances
to insure that underground workers receive more food than
surface workers.
2-Office workers and those in occupations not directly
related to digging coal, instead of receiving supplemental
rations of miners, now receive supplemental rations specified
for their particular class of work.
3-Indiscriminate distribution of hard tack and biscuits
intended only for underground workers no lnger exists.
4-Through cooperation of Prefectural Governor Tanaka,
absentee miners no longer receive.supplemental raticns.
Price Control and Rationing Livision officials said
Jepanese ESB and Coal Board teams have now returned to Toky
with additional information from individual mines to be used
by the Japanese Government in improving food, clothing and ther
incentive goods programs benefiting all Japanese miners.
-0-
TYPHOON "JEAN" LIOVING WEST OF YAP
Typhoon "Jean" was centered 30 miles southwest of Yap at
9 a.m. today, moving west at 10 miles per hour, the 43d weather
Wing announced. "Jean" is expected to be centered 18o miles
north-northwest of Palau by 9 a.m. tomorrcw. Maximum surface
winds near. the center of the typhoon are 90 miles per hour,with
little change in intensity forecast in the next 24 hour period.
Heavy rains over a lo0 mile radius accompany the typhoon.
High tides and swells are fcrecast along the east. coast of the
Philippines for the next 48 hours.
-0-
-3-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
23 AIR FORCE ENLISTED LEN IN FAR EAST QUALIFY
FOR FIRST OFFICERS! CANDID.TE SCHOOL OF 1948
HEADQUARTERS FAR I AST AIR FORCES, TOKYO--Twenty-thrcE Air
Forcc enlisted ren in the Far East have quclificd for the first
officcrs' condidatc school of 1948, scheduled to be held at Lack-
lond Air Bas(, n or San Antonio, Texas, and vill srend Christmas en.
routo to thc Únited States.
Including two staff serg(ants fron He adquarters Fer Erst Air
Torccs, the list nares seven from the Twenticth Air Force, Guam;
seven from Thirteenth Air Force, Philippine Islands; one
ach from Fifth Air Force, Negoyc, cnd For Enst Air Materiel
Jomrcnd, Fuchu, tuo cch fron 43d Wecther Wing, Air Weather
Jervicc; and Wastarn Pocific Wing, Air Transport Se rvice, and one
rom 7th Airoys nd Air Cormunication S rvice, Tokyo.
Stoff Surgeants R. A. Ignarsk1, of 713 Seventeenth St., Racine,
is., nd Josiah Br1 har, of 2529 Gibscn St., Flint, Michi, are
he enlisted men' whe redc the gred( ht Headquarters FEAF. S rgeant
enarski hns bcen performing the duties of chief clerk in the Air
aspector's Office, while S rg ent Balshew hos been an investigator
or the Prevost M rshal's Office.
Frur of th enlist:d men fron Gucn werc assigned to the Marianas
ir Mnte ric1 Arec. Th y cre S/Sgt. Harry L. Butlcr, of Mer Rouge,
., drinistrativ: spccirlist; S/Sgt. Jcseph P. Blades, of
clumbia, Tcnn., rodic  chanic; Cpl. Willis B. H-ll, of Rushford,
inn., r'rote control turret repairman, and Pfc. H nry .
1lson, Dell Ronids, S. Dak., clerk typist. The other three,
rer a reconnaissonce v th r squadron, are S/Sgt. Lucius M. Coley,
cronado, C. lif., rodar operator; S/Sgt. Thomas S. Campbell,
w Boston, Tex., radio opcrater r shanic; and Sgt. Pilly S..Bryant,
uitman, Lo., clérk typist.
The Thfrteenth Air Force candidat's are S/Sgt. Janos R.
cvards of Harrison, Ark., attached tc redical deportment;
/Sgt. Ed ard J. Stanek, 1624 Paggctt St., Fort Wcrth, Tex., radio
p rater rcchanic; S/Sgt. Willian . Kunnedy, l004 Nicgore Rd.,
rden, N J., squndron engin er, M/Sgt. SoIvadore W. Kemp,
Icc, Md., aerinl photographer; S/Sgt. Fitch W. Foster, Grcene,
. Y., pnoto lab tcchnicion; Sgt. Jrmes C. Schilling, Mount Hope,
. Vc., cl rk in Ad jutant Gineral's Scction; nd S/Sgt. Robert
Mitch Il, Williarsport, Pe., cl: rk in Adjutant G. neral's Section.
Kansan Represents Fifth Air Force
Fupresenting thc Fifth Air Fcrec is S/Sgt. Froncis H. Bc1l,
f Coffoyville, Konsas, who has been attending an cireraft electri-
ian school ot Yckota Air Base. He pr.viously was assigned to
irpo Air Base, in Southern Korca.
Th: 7th Airweys and Air Conruni tion S rvict 's officer
andidctc is Sgt. Jrm s W. Cost, of Gr-nite, Okla., who has been
ssigned as a flight engineer at Honcde Air Base.
The Westcrn Pacific Wing, Air Transport Survicc, has two candi-
ct s in T/Sgt. A. J. Downing, Mabank, Tex., assistant air
nspector, and S/Sgt. Eldon L. Sasser, (Homitown unavailable),
ssigned on Guam.
4
(morc)
(over)

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.94)
S lected from the 43d W ather Wing, Air Weather Service, were
T/Sgt. Donald A. MrcKillop, 6 Clinton Pirce, Avcnel, N. J.,
of the S-4 Scction 30th W  th'r Squrdron, and S/Sgt. Charlcs W.
Gray, 812 Quindarox Blvd., Krnsas City, Kans., of the 20th
Wenther Squndron.
Corpl ting the list is S/Sgt. Janes E. Bybcc, Kingman,
Ariz., Non-corrissioned fficer in charge, basc supply, who
represents Frr Erst Air M teri 1 Cormand.
-0-
NOTF TO CO 5ESTONDENTS: The folloving iter
has beun ruccived frer the United Kingdom
Linison Mission in J pan.
GENERLL GAI DNE.. HI TURNS TO TOKY
Lt. Gon. Chorl s H. Gairdner, C. B., C.B.E., P. rsonal Rep-
res ntotive of the British Prim linister to General McArthur,
srrived in Tokyc this afternoen aftar  short tour of duty in the
United Kingder. H. wWas cccrpanied by th Hen, irs. Gairdner,
"ho had be n on a visit to Hong Keng.
The Goirdnr p rty ws r t t Han da cirport by Mr. A.D.F.
G-scoigne, C.I.G., H nd of the Unitcd Kingdor Li-ison fission;
Brig. A. K. Forguscn, C.B.E., nd cther s nior nembers of the
Missicn.
G neral Goirdn:r left Jr pan in Nev rhr with thc British
Prrlicrontary T.1 gaticn nc proc d:d directly to London to rc-
port to Ir. Cl ment Attlc, the Prire Minister on rccent conditions-
in Japan. While in England, he held ccnsultatiens with a large
number of politic-1 and rilitery leaders.
-0-
U. S. DESTROYIE UNABLE TO SIGHT STRICKEN JAPANFSF VESSEL
The U. S. D streyer Gurke tcdey radiocd Corrender
Nev-1 Forces Far E st th-t it was unobl: to sight thc Kyuko M ru,
J-penesc vissel reported drifting out of control with tvo ren
-board n ar Irosaki, about 3o rilcs scuth of Tokyo Bay, clthough it
vos at the seenc last reported fror the stricken vessel.
The Gu ke div rt d its course fror Hakodate to Yokosuka
at ridnight lnst night to aid the 50 ton sailing bont. It re-
ported it vill continuc the search.
-0-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
November 26, 1948
My dear Dr. Evans:
Bill Sebald, who is our United States Political Adviser
for Japan, has indicated to me in a recent letter that a
complete file of the Mainichi Shimbun (Japansse edition) from
June 17, 1917 to date 1s available for purchase in Tokyo.
The collection is said to be in excellent condition except
for very slightly singed edges caused by fire during the B-29
raids. The asking price is around 400 or 500 thousand yen
which at the exchange rate of about 300 yen for one US dollar
would mak the colleotion cost about a thousand dollars to an
American purchaser.
I am impressed with the importance and value of this
colloction and it occurred to me that The Library might be
interested in aoquiring it. As I know of several universities
which are interested in the collection, would. you be good
enough to let me know at the earliest possible date whether
the Library would like to purchase it.
Sincerely yours,
Frank A. Schulor, Jr.
Chief, Japan-Korea Branch
Public Affairs Overseas Program Staff
Dr. Luther H. Evans, Librarian,
The Library of Congress,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFTHE
EuR
UNITED STATES OFAMERICA
UF EUROPLAN AFFAIRS
148 DES 14
Unitedstates Political Adviser
for Japan
ToKyOF, SNotember 4, 1948.
No. 709
OF
VOICASIAN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
NOV 231948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Japanese Reaction to Fall of Mukden.
POLICY PLANNING
893.00
STAFF
The Honorable
DEC 10 1948
The Secretery of State,
894.
Washington.
895.00
Department of State
C2
Sir
893.00
I have the honor to invite the Department's
attention to some examples of Japanese reaction to
the Chinese Coamunist capture of Mukden and the general
deterioration of the position of ti.e Chinese Nationalist
Government.
For some time this mission has noted increasing
-448
concern among Japanese over the intensification of
communist activity in the Far East and its possible
repercussions on Japan. Considereble Japanese attention,
particularly in the press, has been directed to the
gradual consolidation of the communist position in
AY 61949
Manchurie and North China, the advent of the so-called
"People's Republic" in North Korea, increasing communist
activity in South Korea, and the attempted communist
coup at Madioen in Indonesia. The collapse of Chinese
Nationalist resistance at Mukden, coming so close after
the serious comaunist uprising in South Korea, has
created a marked feeling of uneasiness among Japanese.
These are developments exceedingly close to the Japanese
homeland and they stimulate a growing fear of communist
encirclement. As several Japanese newspapers have com-
mented, the Korean uprising and the fali of Mukden have
created a situation which can no longer be regarded as
"a fire on the opposite side of the river"(kawamuko no
kaji, a common expression to signify that a matter is
of no concern).
In its
te
Gil
CONFIDENTIAL
class sheet written
Jωs
6400

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 709,
November 4, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
In its issue of October 30, 1948 the conservative
Tokyo Shimbun, in a somber article under a title
admonishing preparati.1 for a conflagration on the
continent, warned the Japanese that the fire now raging
on the continent threatens to raze the whole Far East,
and that there is no security that these raging flames
will be prevented from spreadins over Japan. Moreover,
the Tokyo Shimbun emphasized, the Japanese communists
are preparin  the way for the spread of the continental
conflagration to the Japanese homeland.
The Dai Ichi Shimbun of October 30 declared that
the Japanese people cannot remain indifferent to the
red crisis on the continent, for "asia is now the battle-
field on which decisive bettles are likely to be fought
by the two opposing powers--Communists and Anti-Communists."
Japan, therefore, stands at the crossroads, and although
at present Japan is "forging ahead under the strong leader-
ship of the United States toward sound democracy", there
is a strong comunist unlercurrent in Japanese life which
is directly connected with the "red cyclone" raging on
the continent. Luch as the Dai Ichi Shimbun favors
continued United States aid to assist China in defeating
the communists, it is pessimistic as to how effective
such aid can be at the present time, and expresses the
fear that further military aid to China may only convert
the Asiatic cold wr to a najor conflict into which Japan
will be drawn.
In its issue of November 1 the influential Tokyo
Asahi noted with deep pessimism the fact that the Nationalist
forces have suffered defeat after defeat notwithstanding
the large amount of financial and material aid received
from the United States. The destiny of China, Asahi
concludes, has a profound bearing on the destiny of the
other countries of Asia, but with the fall of Mukden
"the activities of the Chinese communists will henceforth
have graver significance than ever before".
Another large circulation daily, the Tokyo Mainichi,
devoted considerable space to the Manchurian situation
in its issue of November 2. This newspaper sees in the fall
of Mukden a vast intensification of communist activity
throughout the Far East and fears that the bolshevization
of the Asiatic mainland will have a malignant effect on
Japan's economic rehabilitation. It concludes that in
control of Manchuria, the Chinese communists will be able
to exercise influence over the strategic area of northeast
Asia which formerly played such an important role in the
economic life of Japan.
The English-language Nippon Times for November 3
editorially described Manchuria as the door to Korea
"which was once referred to as a dagger pointed at the
heart
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's. Despatch No. 709,
November 4, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
heart of Japan," and expressed the belief that the
communization of Lanchuria "presents a menace of major
proportions to the democratic peoples of East Asia".
The fall of Mukden has also caused the Japanese
to read a new meaning into communist activities within
Japan, and considerable newspaper comment has been
directed toward increasing communist influence and
activity in the two extremities of the country, Hokkaido
and Kyushu. With both these areas closer than any other
parts of Japan to the siatic mainland, a fear is develop-
ing that Hokkaido and Kyushu are to serve as penetration
points for communist infiltration from the continent in
what may eventually become a red pincer movement against
Japan.
How concerned the Japanese have become as a result
of intensified communist activity throughout the Far
East, climaxing with the fall of Mukden, mey be discerned
from the fact that on November 2, 1948 one of the Emperor's
advisers made an unexpected call at this Mission to
in uire for any further news or appraisal of the significance
of the fall of ukden. It was obvious that the inquiry
was made on behalf of the Emperor who has previously
evinced interest in the communist problem.
Thile a cloud of deep pessimism hangs over most
Japanese, the Japanese communists are jubilant. The
conmunist daily, Akahata, in its issue of November 3
devoted an unprecedented amount of space to the red
victory in Manchuria under the headline "General Situation
Settled - Triumphant Chinese Emancipation Army". The
lengthy article was written around a hypothetical inter-
view with Mr. NoSAKA Sanzo, one of the top communist
leaders and the party's authority on Chinese affairs who
worked with the Chinese conmunists from 1940 until his
return to Japan in January, 1946.
Mr. Nosaka attributes the communist victory to the
overwhelming support the Manchurian masses have given
the "Emancipation Army" which far offsets the material
advantage the Nationalist forces have enjoyed as a result
of American armaments and financial support. Another
factor, according to Kr. Nosaka, is the superior leader-
ship of the Chinese communists as contrasted with the
incompetency and corruption of Chinese politicians and
financiers. The communist military leadership successfully
adapted its strategy to the situation while the Nationalists
blindly followed unsuitable, foreign methods. Finally
according to the article, the Chinese communist forces
based their economic and political policies on real
"democratic" principles.
Turning
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 709,
November 4, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Turning to the future, Mr. Nosaka believes that
the communist forces may soon fight decisive engagements
along the Yangtze line, and that there may be revolts
agai nst the Nationalist Government throughout other parts
of China, backed by sustained guerrilla activity.
Mr. Nosaka suggests the possibility of the emergence
of a new coalition regime for China, but only along the
lines previously proposed by Mio Tse-tung. Such a regime
will represent "the working class, farmers, intelligentsia,
and netive cupital ists", working through the Communist
Party, the Democratic League, "and other democratic
parties composed of soldiers  nd politicians". According
to .r. Nosaka, this new regime will not necessarily be
a socialist one, but a "democratic" government which will
eliminate the "semi-feudelism nd the semi-colonial
system now existing in China".
The new regime will, in r. Kosaka's opinion,
seek friendly relations with foreign nations amicably
disposed toward it, but "it vi ll be difficult to maintain
friendly relttions with foreign nations who try to inter-
fere with the democratic revolution in China and her
independence". The new Chinese regime will be pleased
to enter into friendly reletions with Japan "if and when
Japan is really democratized", and it is therefore
unfortunate, Mr. Nosaka argues, for future friendly
relations between Japan and the proposed new regime in
China "that such reactionary cabinets as the Yoshida
Cabinet came into being after the war's end".
Mr. Nosaka frankly states that Japan will be
directly affected by the communist triumph in Manchuria.
In particular, he anticipates a change in the international
position of Japan by virtue of the fact that a change
in the Chinese political scene will affect one of the
Allied Powers now ∞ ntrolling Japan.
In summary, it is not difficult to detect in Japanese
comment on the political situation on the Asiatic mainland
a latent fear that the rapid spread of comaunism in
China and elsewhere will eventually have important reper-
cussions in Japan. There is also a tendency in Japanese
comment to associate growing communist strength throughout
the Far East with the increasingly aggressive attitude
shown by the comnunists within Japan. Although the
communist position in Japan is now faced with stronger
opposition than at any time during the Occupation, it
appears likely thet the important victory the Chinese
communists have scored in Manchuria will stimulate the
Japanese communists to still greater efforts. Heretofore,
there has been some tendency in Japan to regard the
Japanese communist movement as an acelemic problem or at
most as a potential rather than an actual or immediate
danger. The attempted coup in Indonesia, the armed uprising
in South Korea and the communist capture of Mukden have
fully demonstrated the grimmer realities of communism
and there is little doubt that in the light of these
events communist activity in Japan will be viewed with
far more concern than heretofore.
Manchuria
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 709,
November 4,1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
Manchuria and Korea in particular are names all
too familiar to the Japanese people and the Japanese
are unquestionably reminding themselves today that Japan
once fought a costly war over these two territories
with the same power which now stands behind the spread
of communism in the Far East. Although the red menace
once served the propaganda of Japanese imperialism, it
is quite possible that the present situation will provide
for many Japanese a kind of historic justification of
Japan's prewar continental expansion and anti-communist
policies.
Respectfully yours,
W..Seaae
. J. Sebald
Originel and hectograph to Department.
891
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politica1 Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, Dedember 9, 1948
hiti
No. 775
DC/R
UNCLASSIFIED (For use of Department only).
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week
Erding December 9, 1948.
H
The onorable
he Secretary of State,
ashineton.
Sir:
894.
I hava the honr to transmit the first of a series
Uf weekly smmaries of Japanese newspaper reactions to
current events which this Mission hopes will be of value
to the Department. These summaries are based on ATIS
translations from the Japanese press. The period covered
will be from Friday throush Thursday in order that the
despatch may be forwarded by air pouch every Friday.
112-948
Summary
Heaviest play in the pist week has been given to
the policy speech of Premier YOShIDA Shigeru in the Diet
and to parliamentary debate on the budget. These topics
yielded first place on only cne day to (a) the United
States Supreme Court decision to consider appeals from
the verdict of the International Military Tribunal for
the Far East, end (b) the Far Eastern Commission's pro-
posal to expand Japanese trade.
Editorial Comment on the Jar Crimes Verdict
While the United States Supreme Court decision of
December 6 to consider the appea's of ex-Jeneral DoIHARA
and ex-Premier HIROTA received gcod play as a news story
including a Tokyo Mainichi extra in the form of a handbill
it has prompted only one editorial among Tokyo newspapers
1715
in the
UNCLASSIFIED
class. sheet written.
File

=== Page 24 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 775,
December 9, 1948.
-2-
in the Asahi of December 8. Asahi stated that the
Supreme Court's willingness to hear the appeal will
not fail to have great repercussions upon the Japanese
people. It warned "lest the trend of assuming a lenient
attitude toward the crimes of the Japanese war criminals
arise among the public....on the strength of criticism
of the Tokyo trial or as a result of postponing the
execution of the sentences....and the acceptance of the
appeals on the part of the Supreme Court." It added,
"We cannot help but feel that our mistaken hopes for the
postponement of the execution of sentences are rather
liable to obscure the historic mission of the trial to
establish international peace."
Asahi surmised that the Supreme Court will not under-
take to pass on the verdict of the Tribunal, but will con-
cern itself only with vhether the Tribunal was "legally
established."
The prefectural press at the end of November was
Senerally of the opinion that the Tokyo trials should be
considered closed with General Douglas MacArthur's con-
firmation of the sentences.
The Yamagata Shimbun remarked that the principal
aim of the trials was not to punish the accused, but to
make the Japanese people "reflect on their faults." The
same commentator pointed out that the punishment of the
twenty-five Class A defendants did not clear the Japanese
people of their responsibilities and that the only way
Japan could atone for "its disturbances to vorld peace
was to travel the lon, difficult road of democratic re-
construction."
In a similar vein Niigata Nippo said that in their
condemnation of the militarists, the people must not con-
sider themselves entirely blameless inasmuch as they
"obeyed and cooperated ith their leaders." Chugoku
Shimbun urged that on the day of execution, the Japanese
people "shed tears of repentance for their war sins" and
renew their determination to become a peace-loving country.
Nagasaki Minyu thought that the most important lesson to
be ained from the verdict is the necessity to exterminate
Fascism "fostered by ultre-nationalism, dictatorship and
racial superiority."
The Department will notice the difference between
these editorial opinions and the Japanese public's re-
actions to the verdict reported by Allied foreign corre-
spondents stationed here. While the foreign correspondents
in their
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 775,
December 9, 1948.
-3-
in their dispatches, since the verdict on November 12,
have reported the complex factors entering into the
verdict and some anticipated political repercussions,
the Japanese newspapers have assumed the duty of tutoring
their readers in the proper attitude to adopt towards the
executions.
Reactions to Premier's Policy Statement
Premier Yoshida's policy speech to the Diet (called
an "administrative speech" by the Japanese) on December 4
has drawn a volley of criticism from many quarters ranging
in political complexion from the conservative Jiji Shimpo
to the Communist Akahata.
Jiji Shimpo put the case most succinctly: "The public
Wanted to hear the Jovernment's policies at the Diet....
but except for stressing again the Government's intention
to dissolve the Diet, Premier Yoshida has not clarified any
policies worthy of note."
Sekai Keizai considered the speech meaningless, while
Mainichi described it as spineless. The latter also
pointed out that Yoshida made only two points: (1) that
after passage of the supplementary budget the House of
Representatives will be dissolved, an inter-party decision
which it says was reached at the end of the Third Diet
session, and (2) that if the Democratic Liberals are re-
turned by the voters in sufficient numbers to become the
major party, then another Yoshida cabinet will be formed.
Lainichi considered these "intra-Diet problems" and ex-
pressed its disappointment that Yoshida failed to "come
out vith a clear-cut program."
Asahi considered the policy statement so important
it devoted two editorials to it on the same day--both
adversely critical. Cne called it an "administrative
address without a policy" and the other described it as
"clumsy, inappropriate." It described the address as
"an electioneering speech rather than an administrative
speech," and compared it to "a wedding speech delivered
at the time of divorce proceedings."
Yomiuri, which generally supports the Democratic
Liberal Party, was milder in its criticism than the other
big Tokyo papers, but considered that the Premier "spoke
in too negative a tone and had no courage to appeal to
the people" with a constructive policy. Middle-of-the
road Tokyo Shimbun dismissed the statement by saying,
"We find
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 775,
December 9, 1948.
-4-
"We find nothing worthy of special mention in Premier
Yoshida's administrative speech."
The Communist organ, Akahata, developed a new
wrinkle in self-congratulation. Akahata quoted Yoshida
as havins said that in order to restore Japanese credit
abroad and conclude a peace treaty, a democratic govern-
ment must be established. Akahata continued: "It is only
the Communist Party of Japan that has consistently ad-
vocated precisely what Premier Yoshida sets forth in his
speech" and thereupon concluded that "Premier Yoshida's
words were tantamount to an adnission that a popular
government led by the Communists is the way to establish
national independence."
One of the essential factors behind Yoshida's state-
ment to the Diet received no mention in the Japanese
press. That factor is the part taken by Government Sec-
tion, Jeneral Headquarters, in the question of Diet dis-
solution and the holding of general elections.
On the resignation of Premier ASHIDA in September
considerable opinion favoring the holding of new general
elections was reported to exist among Japanese politicians.
The Government Section is generally believed to have told
Yoshida at that time that the Diet must pass the National
Public Service Law and the supplementary budget before
dissolution and new seneral elections. Economic and
Scientific section, Jeneral Headquarters, is understood
to concur in the viw thet the deficiency appropriation
budget now under consideration by the Diet must be dis-
posed of before the Diet is dissolved.
In the light of common supposition that Headquarters
relations with the Yoshida Government have been guided by
these considerations (although they have not been discussed
in the press), much of the invective thrown at Yoshida
loses point.
Reactions to the Budget
The budget presented on December 4 by Economic
Stabilization Board Director-General IZUMIYAiA has met
a generally critical reaction. The budget is characterized
by the economic daily Nihon Keizai as "nothing but a col-
lection of programs now being carried out." Nihon Keizai
believed that stabilization of the political situation
through a seneral election is necessary before a government
can devote
UNCLASSIFLED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 775,
December 9, 1943.
-5-
can deyote itself to state administration. The same
paper said in a somewhat carping tone, "However, except-
ing that the time and method of abolishing the sales
tax and the free sale of staple foods....are under
study; that land reform will stop in the second stage;
and that labor laws will not be revised, his speech in-
cludes no items worthy of mention."
The Mainichi considered the budget speech "completely
disappointing," and "merely a lot of words." The same
newspaper chided Izumiyama for vague abstractions and
said: "He used such expressions as 'effective and funda-
mental measures will be employed' and 'overall measures
will be put into practice.' However, it is the content
of these remarks that the people want to know."
Jiji Shimpo considered that the budget speech is
an attempt to meet "political difficulties... by make-shift
measures" and that it was for the most part a mere repeti-
tion of the emergency policies which were annomced by
the Democratie Liberal Party before the fommatten of the
present cabinet.
Sekai Keizai considered that Izumiyama "rererred to
no definite economic policies. He took up the simplifica-
tion of economic controls and the abolition of unnecessary
controls, but these were already included in the program
of the former cabinet."
In this general condemnation of Premier Yoshida's
policy statement and his budget the exoessive severity
is no doubt in part a consequence of the instinctive
opposition which the Japanese press feels for politios.
Whether the press is accurately voicing the views of the
electorate is probably not ascertainable until a general
election is held.
Respectfully yours,
wor.Becree
W.J. Sebald
891
AHaden:hh
Original and Hectograph
to Department.
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, Decepber 17, 1948
No. 788
UNCLASSIFIED (For use of Department only).
DC1R
S
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week
Ending December 16, 1948.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to despatch No. 775 of
December 9, 1948 and to transmit a summa ry of Japanese
newspaper reactions to current events for the week from
December 10 tnrough December 16, 1948.
111/12-1748
Summary
Diet discussion of the supplementary budget anthe
public, formalized logrolling which has been incideit to
the Diet's dissolution commanded the major attention of
Tokyo papers during the week, except for two days when the
drunkenness of Finance .inister Izumiyama earned him rough
editorial scoldings. His intoxication and amorous advances
to two women Diet members allowed the newspapers to abandon
the chill intellectual aoproach to budgetary figures and
abstract arguments denouncin the unedifying political maneu-
verings of tnis Diet session. Izumiyama provided a rousing
human interest news peg on which to hang their discontent,
and the press was quick to join the avid political opposi-
tion in manifying the incident.
Behavior in the Diet
A significant feature of the editorials in the major
Tokyo newspapers discussing the Izumiyama affair was their
broadening of the responsibility for his scandalous behavi
Not only
UNCLASSIFLED
WAR 2
FILED
1
St

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 788,
December 17, 1948.
-2-
Not only was Minister Izumiyama condemned, but the Diet
in general was blamed and several editorialists insisted
that the people themselves who elected the Diet must
also recognize their share of responsibility.
Mainichi and Asahi simultaneously pointed out that
Izumiyama's drinking bout was all the more reprehensible
in that it occurred when the supplementary budget bill
was coming up for consideration. Mainichi said, "To make
matters worse, the incident took place at the very moment
when the fate of the much-debated supplementary budget,
which would surely affect the welfare of all public em-
ployees and their families, amounting to 10,000,000 people,
was about to be decided." Asahi pointed out that the
budget bill in hand dealt with the new wage standard which
"directly concerns the treatment of Government and public
office workers...."
The extreme tone assumed by the press over the in-
cident is a further illustration of Japanese sensitivity
to matters of dignity in precedence to matters of political
substance. sahi said: "This is the ugliest and most in-
decent incident in the whole history of Japanese parlia-
mentary politics." Jiji Shimpo went even further, calling
it "an event unprecedented in the history of the world."
Mainichi and Yomiuri both considered that parliamentary
procedures are imperiled. Hainichi said, "When after the
war the Diet was elevated by the new constitution to the
status of the highest organ of the state, the people hoped
that its enhanced dignity would put an end to such dis-
reputable acts. This hope, however, has been betrayed com-
pletely." Yomiuri concurred in this attitude and said,
"This is the saddest news ever heard of the Diet."
In similar vein, Tokyo Shimbun recalled that the
Diet is the supreme organ of state power and said, "How-
ever, the actual Diet is a place of ignoble political
warfare and Diet members are far from being the ideal of
the people." Tnis ne spaper went on to say that since
"most" of the Diet members are suspected of implication
in the electric, textile, coal mine control and other
scandals, "it is no wonder that the Izumiyama incident
occurred in the Diet. It is no exaggeration to say that
the incident is a symbol of the present Diet."
Mainichi felt that "If this state of things con-
tinues any longer, we shall inevitably lose the confidence
of the orld, as well as the opportunity for national
independence." Yomiuri, in somber mood, found that "The
Japanese Diet which earlier invited worid-wide misgivings
by producins many crime suspects, including the former
premier
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 788,
December 17, 1948.
-3-
premier in relation to the Showa electrical scandal,
has now produced an unprecedented incident of drunken-
ness." Jiji Shimpo considered that "the news is also
so scandalous that, if reported to foreign countries,
it will undoubtedly compromise faith in the Japanese
Government."
The responsibility of the people for having elected
their representatives was emphasized by Tokyo Shimbun,
which asked the people to "reflect upon our own responsi-
bilities for having chosen such slovenly Diet members
as our representatives." Mainichi considered that the
incident Was "a reflection of the lack of morality of
the people at large," while isahi drew an interesting
psychological parallel between the misbehavior on the
Diet floor and "the behavior of the Jananese during the
war, which croused severe criticism throughout the world."
Inukai lection
The election of IMulI Men to the presidency of
the Democratic Party as successor to ex-Premier ASHIDA
received good play at tihe beginning of the week. Asahi
prominently played his inaugural speech under the heading,
"Inukai Advocates Sound Reform Folicies for Democrats"
and mentioned his commitment to "revised capitalism."
Mainichi discussed his election in the light of a possible
merger with other conervative forces in the Liberal Demo-
cratic Party headed by Premier YOSnIDA.
Prefectural Hewspapers
The prefectural press (i.e., newspapere published
outside the Tokyo metropolitan area) at the beginning of
December save strongest emphasis to the necessity for
purifyins politics. The arrest of ex-Premier Ashida in
connection With the howa lectric scandal led to broad
demands for a thorou h clean-up. In similar editorials,
Toyama shimbun and Csaka Shimbun pointed out that never
before in Japanese history had a person as prominent as a
Prime Minister been charged with a crime by the public
prosecutors. These two nevispapers felt that, besides
undangering Japanese credit abroad, the arrest of Ashida
had undermined the people's faith in politics. Kyoto
Shimbun also made the latter point. Hiigata Nippo con-
sidered that the scandals were due to several factors
one of
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 788,
December 17, 1948.
-4-
one of which is the bureaucratic system itself. Exem-
plifying the Japanese tendency to emphasize collective
responsibility, the Shinano Mainichi considered that in
the Ashida case the whole Diet "should bear some of the
responsibility for the dishonor."
War Crimes Verdict Discussed in Magazines
While Japanese magazines in recent months have
given very little space to the findings of the secondary
war crimes trials, the verdict of the International
Military Tribunal for the Far East on Class A war criminals
has prompted considerable coverage. Many writers stressed
that the verdict is a judgment ajainst all Japanese. The
significance of the judgment to interna tional law and the
Tribunal's objective of outlawin aggressive warfare were
stressed and the most frequently quoted statement was
that of Chief Prosecutor Keenan to the effect that the
Tribunal's objective was not retaliation but the prevention
of war.
Description in the judgment of many of the Japanese
war atrocities apparently made a considerable impression
on numerous writers. For ins tance, in Asahi Hyoron one
writer said, "What struck my conscience most while I
listened to the verdict was the cruelty exhibited by the
Japanese Army. I cannot tell how many decades it will
take us to wipe away this blot. I could not bear to
listen to it, but we must hear it." In Horitsu No Hiroba
another writer stated, "Although it is distressing to
look back upon our defeat, it is even more painful to
look back upon the atrocities by Class A, B and C war
criminals." Almost all magazine writers on war crimes
trials urged that the Japanese people must learn the
lessons implicit in the trials.
The jurisprudence involved in the war crimes trials
has been critically examined by at least two magazines.
In Choryu, Tokyo University Professor UCHIDA Rikizo found
that the Tribunal sought to enlarge the body of inter-
national law by bringing three types of charges: crimes
against the peace, crimes in contravention of the rules
of warfare, and crimes against humanity. He found that
while no question could arise concerning the second of
these, the re was no precedent for the first and third.
Hence, he concluded that punishment meted out would run
counter to the British and merican th eory of jurisprudence
which condemns ex post facto law. Professor Uchida con-
cluded that "there may exist some question as to the juris-
prudential authority of the Tribunal. But I suppose this
is unavoidable in the realization of the great and just
objectives."
UNCLASSIFLED

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 788,
December 17, 1948.
-5-
objeetives."
In Chunichi ieekly one writer found the judgment
"a notable one, worthy of a major and historical trial.
Particularly it renders an advanced and positive decision
on the facts of aggression." But he complained that only
fifteen of the l2l3 pages of the verdict are devoted to a
discussion of the jurisprudence involved. Professor
YOKOTA Kisaburo writing in Chuo Koron found the trials
"historic" in that they have brought to an end "the old
Japan" and compelled the ma jor criminals to "bear the
responsi bility for their successive acts of aggression
and war." He stated that by providing a precedent, the
trials "will serve as a deterrent to future attempts at
war."
Respectfully yours,
W.J. Sebald
891
AHaden:hh
Herd in thek
SrteumFrla
Original and Hectograph
to Department.
Copy to Ame rican Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
isigned to
ASSTSI
EAS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, December 27
1948
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
NO. BO6TENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFHIED (For use of Department only)
JAN -4 1949
Subject repanese Newspapar Reactions far,
nding Deeember 23,194
1949
The Honorable
Seeretary of Sta
Washington.
Sir:
894.9
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
1o. 788 of December 17, 1948 and to transmit a summary
of Japunese newspuper reactions to current events for the
week of December 17 throuh December 23, 1948.
Summary
The United States interim directive calling for an
12-2748
economio stabilization program in Japan, together with
immodiate ScAP aetion to curtail l bor agitation, blanketed
all other news during the week under review. (The Supreme
Court decision of no jurisdiction in the war crimes appeals
was expected and brought little comment, and the executions
occurred too late to reach the editori l p es wi thin the
period under review).
Economic Stabilization Directive
FILED
Publication of the United States interim directive
on December 18 and 19, followed by Jener1 Macirthur's
i
letter to Premier YoslID. repeating substantially the same
considerations, plus Premier Yoshida's reply to SCAP, all
served to emphasize thoroughly the whole uestion of
Japanese responsibility for stabilizins their economy.
The result of this multiple news play was an unusual
crop of editorials on the subject within a very short time.
894.9111
Mainichi, Yomiuri, Nihon Keizai, Tokyo Shimbun and Asahi
all devoted
UNCLASS IFIED
EAXED
ORMATION

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 806,
December 27, 1943.
-2-
all devoted two lead editorials to the subject in three
days and single lead editorials appeared in Hochi Shimbun,
Dai Ichi Shimbun, Sekai eizai, Chuka Nippo and Nippon
Times.
all editorils scanned agreed on the necessity of
stabilizing the Japanese economy. Several pointed out
that the essentials of the directive are not new and
openly regretted that the Japanese Government has not
realized long ago the necessity for doing what it now
has been ordered to do. In a typical opinion Mainichi
said, "It is a matter for regret that the Japanese Govern-
ment should have received another directive from the
Supreme Commander for the llied Powers concerning matters
which have already been decided because this means that
the Japanese Government has neglected to carry out these
measures."
Several editorialists pointed out that the directive
enbodies nd partly repeats principles already recognized
s necessary by the Japanese Government. Nihon Keizai
said, for instance, "It can be pointed out that the measures
embodied in tme directive re very similar in principle to
the ten-point economic stabilization policy drafted by the
Japanese overnment in July this year upon recommendation
by Jeneral macrt  ur." In similar vein asahi said, "The
substance of the policies is in accord with the ten-point
economic principles on which a directive was issued by
GHQ to the :  anese Governnent in uly. Although not new
in substance, the recent directive is especially sinificant
in that it calls tor effective execution of the ten-point
economic principles."
The English-lan guae ippon Times voiced a timely
warning when it said, "nll f ctions among the Japanese
are falling over themselves in the rush to preise the
program in fulsome terms and all of them are claiming
that tais prograi is just the thins they themselves have
been striving for right lons....But in view of the fact
tiet these fuctions have been pursuing widely divergent
and conflictins policies, it stands to renson that all of
them cennot pe e unlly sincere in their support of this
progron."
Labor hestrictions s Part of Economic Stabilization
That an custerity progrem, alon; the lines of the
interim directive, will ceriously affect and perhaps
curtail the rights und privileges of la bor was cuickly
apparent
UNCLASSIFIED
6000

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 806,
December 27, 1948.
-3-
upparent to Japanese opinion. Mainichi (English edition)
front-paged the efforts of Chester W. HePLER, Chief of
the Labor Division in SC.P's Economic and Scientific
Section, to settle present and impendins strikes. Mainichi's
news story stated, "is reco mendation, it is understood,
was issued in accordance ith the purport of the nine-
point economic stabilization pro ram and General MacArthur's
letter to Prime  inister Yoshida." He was said to have urged
settlement of strikes by three col miners' unions, the
Japan lectric Poer orkers' Union, the Seamen's Únion,
the ll-Japan Textile Workers' Union, the National Federa-
tion of Metel orkers' Union an the General Federation of
Private hailway Morkers' Unions. Mainichi cuoted a coal
miners' union leader as stating, "I was informed that
Jeneral Douglas  crthur is no. entit led to issue a stop
strike order in  ccordance ith a irective iven him by
the United States State und rmy Depertments." The news
story clso uoted n lectric Workers' Union leader as
sayin; tht centinunce of their labor disnute is "liable
to leat to the Uni n's forfeiture of the risht to strike."
in editorial in the economic-financial journal,
Nihon eizai, entit led "ew Phase of Labor Dispute," was
echoed by an editori1 in Dai Ichi Shimbun entitled "Turn
ing roint in abor ovement"  nd another in Chuke Nippo
on "ew Direction of Labor Folicy."
Dai Ichi Shimbun srid, "It is not clear whether the
labor movement  ins to improve labor's livelihood under
capitalistic economy or hether its objective is to
destroy capitalistic economy itself ond establish control
by labor. Labor should first clarify its oal and this
Soal must be in line mith cnpitalism. For we Japanese are
now relying on outside ai,nd this 'outside' is clearly
based on capitulistic economy. Ir lobor should ignore
these facts and be absorbed in meaningless conflicts with
capitalism, it will be hindsrins Japun's economic re-
hubilitation nd workins inst the welfare of the whole
nation." Chuka . ippo admitted tir t since the surrender,
the Japanese workers i d jained many pishts, but it added,
"They are now in the nosition Where they must shelve their
newly suined privilejes for industri1 recevery." The
cons ervetive  ihon leizai warned th t "in the future,
labor and m negement are re uired to renounce temporarily
a portion of the privileges and freedoms ranted a free
society in order to secure sconomic stability as su gested
in the TecArthur l tter to Premier Yoshide."
In  somewhat different vein and conveyins a warning
Jainst the easy optimism thit Japanese economic troubles
are all derived from lubor difficulties, Sekai Keizai
called for the launchins of people's movement to stabilize
Japanese
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 806,
December 27, 1948.
-4-
Japanese economy. It pointed out that "freedoms must be
subjected to certain conditions different from those
under a perfect denocracy." It  dded, "In fighting for
democracy, it is necessary to put restraint upon certain
freedoms. To prevent tnis leadins to Fascism, everyone
must ealize the meaning of his efforts and willingly
endure uusterity." Usins a different line of argument
but arrivin, at a similar conclusion, sahi asked these
uestions: "With the conviction that the task is not
forced u on us from ithout, but is one that we should
voluntarily undertaxe ourselves, ve should like to ask
the people these uestions: Do the people of Japan really
desire to overcome the infl tion. Do they want Japan to
rein ner position in international economy and reestablish
ner economic independence? Do they want their present
slovenliness to result in a future cat strophe; or do they
prefer to sacrifice the present for  higher end more orderly
life in the future?"
The Communist Line
The Communist line towards the interim stabilization
directive can be sauged as much by what kahata, the
Communist Party orgen, ces not print as by what it does.
Jince the tolic tion of the directive, no editorial has
uppeared in kanta specifically iccussins it. This
newspaper hus confined its comment to  pleu to "Save
V
Little usinesses from Destruction."
Without rererrins to the directive in this editorial,
kahata succeeded in ttackins several of the points
specifically pro ounded. Discussins the "so-called enter-
prise adjustment policy," it seid: "The mononoly capi-
talists unrecsonably overestimoted their essets under the
current enterprise reudjustment program in an effort to
cover ceficits inerrea durins war days. Thus, they paved
the way for introducing the low-wege policy....Further,
it is most clearly mnifested in their mneuvers for
establishing a single exchnnge rate." The newspaper then
uoted a former Finonce Minister as predictin the bank-
ruptey of sixty per cent of exporters if the yen exchange
is fixed ut too to the dollur and of forty ner cent if the
exchenge is fixed at tso to the dollar.
.ttackin "low-wage and heavy texetion policies,"
kahata saic thet only the Communist Perty could save the
sam1l pusinessmen and declared: "If the workers want to
secure their positions end prevent the lowering of wages,
they must
JCISSIFLED

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch o. 306,
December 27, 1948.
-5-
they must strussle not only for the establishment of a
minimum vage system, but lso for the bolition of the
earned income tax, nd the business income tax imposed
on smaller businessmen and farmers. They must also
fight for the establishment of a reasonable rice price
and the voluntary delivery of farm products....It is
their duty to....clear the cinnel for loans to smaller
businessmen." It is apparent that this line attacks the
directive in respect to a single exchange rate, wage
stability, tax collection, food collection and the
limitin of credit to projects centri buting to the economic
recovery or capan.
Comment on Chine
Editorial comment on the Chinese cituntion has been
very light. Four editori ls Curin: the veet, in Nihon
Keizai, romiuri, Jiji Jhi ro n inichi, took a lofty,
dispassiont te tone non-critical of the Chinese communists,
leadins one to suspect tvt Jcponese opinion is working
to find some means of accommodating itself to apparently
impending communist control of China.
While the first three newspapers listed above con-
sidered tht coalition sovernment is likely to issue
from the present pressure of communist forces on the
Kuomintane, inichi felt that the "possibility is strong
for a protracted civil war in China." It also considered,
however, that "the economic rehabilitation of vast occupied
areas is of more importance to Chinese communists than
military strategy."
Nihon Keizai, Jiji Shimpo and Yomiuri ell pointed
up the United States hands-off policy in China at present,
although Jiji Shimpo doubted whether the United States
"will allow the communists to establish a coalition govern-
ment and finally take control of Formosa."
Alone of the four mentioned editorials, Hihon eizai
considered that "if China should be controlled by Chinese
communists, it will affect the whole situation in Asia
as never before....In the midst of such turmoil in Asia,
we must remember the important role Japan is expected to
play in the Eastern Hemisphere."
Respectfully yours,
N. B.
gapan's wall-shmut
Jounal,
W.J. Sebald
MS.
891
403
nhaden:hh
Original and lectograph utaumfl
to Department.
Copy to merican Embassy, London.
UNCLASSIFIED
6000

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICENORTHEASANAFFAIRS
OF THE
wotl
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
JAN 19949
United StDEPARIMENItPaSUEriser
1949 FEB 16 PM 1 24
for Japan
Tokyo, December 31, 1948
ACTION
No. 818
NT OF STATE
is assigned to
UNCLASSIr Lp (ror Department use only)
SIR
December 30, 1928.
0
894.9
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Nashington.
NC
I have the honor t: refer to this Hission's despatch No.
806 of December 27, 1948 on the above uc ject and to transmit
2
894.00
a summary of Japanese newspaper reaction: to current events
-3148
for the week of December 24 through December 30, 1948.
Sunmary
Editorial eaphasis durin lie weelt unoer review was given
to the execution of the seven Ciass "A" war crininals condemned
to death by the International ilitary Tribunal for the Far
East, to the elections scheduled for January 23, and to rice-
AMUS
planting quotas and harvest prospect.
Execution of lar Criminals
News stories and editorials focusin briefly on the execu-
tion of the seven major war criminals were confined almost entirely
to December 4, the day following the hangings. Even then, the
executione mred lading play wi diseussions of the Diet dis
FILED
solution. The editorials or he rincipal Tokyo newspapers on
the exeoutions revol ved rineipally pround the thought that the
61949
death of these seven nen whould not be taken as an atonement for
the whole people whose war res onsibility matches that of the
leaders, but shouls cerve ss  syaool whereby, in the words of
Dai lchi shiabun, "le sho tha be a le to change this day of disgrace
and hatred
URCLAOTLATED
ART
Fl
JWs
ON
0:3

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.87)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 818,
December 31, 1948.
-2-
and hatred to a day oi glory sor Japan."
Several newspapers recalled the words of General MacArthur on
November 2! when he called war "that most malignant scourge and
greatest sin of mankind." Conservative Jiji Shimpo said, "If anyone
should think t at with the death sentences to seven men and severe
penalties neted out to eighteen others, the punishment for war crimes
has been conp td in the in, it is a gross mistake....All hardships,
spiritual :s well as aterial, that each of us Japanese is now daily
e eriencin, ere out a punishaent iaposed on us for our war crimes.
He re eat that one must never think that the execution of the seven
wer lea or; has relieved Japan of her war responsibility. Our sins
nust be expiated by our posterity too."
Si ilarly enphasizin Ihe people's responsibility, Tokvo Nichi
Lichi said, "Soie Japanese may thin': that the hanged martyred themselves
by assuning r-s,onsibiLity for the crimes of the entire Japanese
e.wever, o. shoul bear in mind that the war was
not cught b our leaders alone....The whole Japanese people should
essu tne repen itility for Lettin: wrong leaders hold their posi-
  f tein ir rder
Th- c structiv- view o  hancin ; as a contribution to peace
was ayhasired by everal -litoriu i. Tokro Shiabun declared that
retrimtion is usually a n' ative ra ure which has no effect on those
who do not fear deat. T i n per then called for "some positive
vow" u si, "1 ir deatns exert ce, influence on the peoples
of therld, i wy fely e sai that their lesths laid the corner
"one o pesce." ! !urL, inicni denunced that the executions
"e ase i n! icant" dded, "to caters comitted crimes
i? interati oality,  : an-se, whether they sup
portd th or o, ot eca r on sibility for their crimes.
ith sir respo . ility in id, il Japanese must seek eternal
acef  ori:inst war." Taisspaper thn asked that the
er!ntoi renunciation of war,
tut tocoles of the world.
,roh
in urueof sferences of opinior. concerning the jud
. reclin  whic ve lrey ri cocerning the
v1ich.7 o Dr 17,
litorild ovested
ft to  di xsed fro variou unl-, not onl from the
int. et upr Court reviewed
licl atio rnuou
lofo
uinina L
one of

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 818,
December 31, 1948.
-3-
one of its editorials quoted General MacArthur, apparently with
some relish, and said, "It is inevitable that some people, es-
pecially individual Japanese, may differ on the verdict." In a
second editorial Asahi stated, "The hard fact that seven war
criminals have been executed fills us with an inescapable sensa-
tion of bitterness. Theoretically, we can regard it as justice.
Actually, the people's sentiments toward the natter are not so
si.iple." In this editorial, Asahi did little to clarify what it
considered to be the complex popular attitude to the verdict, but
moved off to discussing the renunciation of war as an instrument
of national policy nd cane to th- conclusion that Japan's "safest
and wisest way is not to :c involved in any war and to make every
effort to pronote the ,eople's welfare."
lections and the Cannaigns
ver the Christmas week-end, the ne vspapers rapidly shifted
their focus away from e:ecution of the war crininals and unanimously
stressed the grave igni icance of the coning elections for the
louse of tepresentatives scheduled for January 23, 1949.
Asahi amph size that the pople ust not neglect this oppor
tunity t a ti.-ir  fluence felt and urged clean, nonest eloctions.
inichi, lso c  in for nonest clections, urged a clean-up of
politics.
reki  izai an fasiuri coincided in considering inor political
parties uscless. The first o! these felt that "un ess minor parties,
whose separate existcice cannot :e justified, and together, the com
munist enace ill eveln. nto a r ai  reat in Japan. Yodurd
sugrrestiny a pre rastic re edy, considered thet dnor parties i
pede purlizaentary poli: ics an. aavis voters to cast their ballots
for the lorrtics .   t: tilly 
sition ue . or t erce eltry twoprty politios.
 cac tl dori
protldevelode rin f

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 818,
December 31, 1948.
-4
the wind against labor unions has become stronger. Some of these
people are dissatisfied with the Government's attitude, terming
it a reactionary tendency." Yomiuri continued with a warning to
labor that "the various controls which may be taken as reactionary
by the working; class did not cone into existence spontaneously.
Labor unions were warned a ainst indiscreet activity on many occa-
sions, such as in Ceneral MacArthur's order against the general
strike on February 1, 1947, Geeral larquat's stat nent on the
povernment aployees' trike last .arch end General MacArthur's
letter in July on the revision o? the ati nal rublic Service Law."
It h'n t ted that "t e orlin ciss ust coonerate for economic
rehelilit tion, ot rel bc ise hey re ordered to....but b
cause it is iir  uty at this juncture of the democratic revolution.
The orkin css ust observe th: principles for industrial re
hatilitotion,  confine ware demands dthin the linits which enter
risers can afford, not becaace they are o ordered by the Govern
went, tut ttcause tse rinciples are in ine with the aims of the
prldovene.
 inted u te arado f the Denocratio Liberal
:arty tryin  crry  "intensification of the existing price
coatrols and i: neccusary their expension" cailed for in the in-
teriI cirective. It tate. t "i he text f he said item is
construe. lit-r.l, itort wdll: contrary to the policy
f e Devecratic i art." Jiji shi po did not discuss
Mt ujust. ant be peratic iberal Iarty ight have to make in
ito jolicie   or: o  ir-ctiv, out rother found it at
v.riance i.  olicies t uow, hen it suid, "It must more
.n icail u i tht t. itIrins counter to the
Ir-c:ion -f co trol uujustment ceretofore folloued under the guidance
of Star." Thi ewupapur was ap. arently referring to the avowed
poliey of : De pcrat ic Aberal 1 rty ex. ressed by ex-Finance
inister 12..1. (tis si n's des, atci. .o. 77 of December 9,
re 5vrin i icatione liftin of controls;
nsftrhiesnot issued
ritttie  etivese Gov-n  ince the
m of o,  for ine t tie to assume that the
e we c. nnin irn aair acording to
outrdly e cr:ic thos.
izai rumed to  discu sion of the interin directive
ith specia: referrnce to : : int-rnati al aspects and oted that
 wes isssed at  tii n r prospect f conmunist control
wer in s alst cortin, t e United tates was co pelled
clarif è mew nlics toward the rar est." It then dded, "We
tllttrcaninhe directive should he interpreted
 o l un n  an c n c nt   inslation effectively and
 ut on cnoie revivaianese chances of revival wll
tio frltdtll oblied
iotinat cro of lise and
eJ,bedeterinednhet fwmonth.
T lo th
the United

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 818,
December 31, 1948.
-5-
the United States would, as a consequence of communist control in
China, abandon Japan to communism if this country failed to make a
marked comeback in the next few months.
Rice-Flanting Quotas
Assignaent of the 1949 quotas for rice and other staple foods
announced on Dece.nber 22 at a veeting of prefectural governors in
Tokyo overshadowed all other news for two days, but prompted only
rour editorials in major newspapers in the next two davs, namely:
Asahi, Nihon Keizai, Jiji Shimpo and Sekai K izai. Three of these
newspapers pointed out that the CAr directive providing for pre-
planting quotas, hich could be increased should the harvest justify
any change, is a departure fron the practice followed in the past
year. Nihon heizai put it nost succinctly hen it said, "GHQ announced
that it had instructed the Japanese Government to revise the laws in
such a manner as to make possible additional rice delivery quotas.
When this year's pre-allocatio: (pre-planted allocation) was deter
.ined in ..arch, it was decided that adaitional delivery allotments
would not be made."
Discussing farmers' possible reactions, ihon Keizai said,
"I armers may consider the new pre-allotments as being too harsh"
and came to the nub of the natter when it said, "When the taxes on
farmers' revenue are fixed next January, the agrarian economy will
becone further straigntened. such inancial stringency in agrarian
districts is due....to h: fact that farn products are priced lower
than production mat rials and daily necessities....The problem is
the price of rice." wihon reizai here puts its finger on the problem
which has been worrying observers in many fields--namely, that while
the price of rice is fixed, the prices of tools, clothes and con-
struction materials have been steadily swelling in Japan's infla-
tionary bulge.
Asahi considered tiat stricer collection of foods "will weigh
heavily upon the farmers," but urged then to realize that this was
necessary in view of "wage and rice control hich constitutes the
foundation of the program of econo.aic independence." Asahi then
came to the somewhat surprising conclusion that to "maximize" agri-
cultural production, "the Government and the farmers must endeavor
to reform the prevailing system of small-scale farming."
There is an overtone of fear among editorials scanned that the
new aystem of food collection, including increased quotas at harvest
time, will be badly received by Japanese farmers and possibly lead to
refusals to sow the grain.
In the Asahi, Nihon Keizai and Jiji Shimpo editorials these
pnrases occur:
Asahi: "In orier to , revent this radically new method of col-
Lection of foods from causin: farmers to be unwilling to deliver
food....
Ir L

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's Despatch No. £le,
December 31, 1946.
-6-
food...." ihon  izai: "Farmers have no reason to detest the quota
delivery systen...." Jiji shiupo: "e are fearful that trouble will
arise in the execution of this a litiomal deliv ry since, when the
deliv ry quota w  announced, it vas especially noted that no addi-
tional quota would be demanded....It is coubtf l hether the addi-
tional delivery plan vill  carried out dthout a hitch."
Jepanese editorialists ure usually quiel to co luent on events
o ajor importance—and the ews-play iv n to the quota allocations
shows that rice is big news in J: an till. The ager crop of edi-
torials on the ubject comtined ith the Fars pmoted above vould
inmie be phet t ure is co se ume sp ss a .one sspaperaen concerming
moe new rice puet s.
Selkai Keizai's ed torial on  ject id  t indicate that
this newspaper anticipated any di ti it te  ove-quota
lelivortes of food, but clle n ler se in te ation to show
ore sincerit end enthusiss ef rec mstruction."
respectfurly youre,
brisecace.
W. J. Sebald
91
laden:hh
riginal and Hectograph
to Department.
Jo to American Embassy,
..ondon.
UCLASSIFED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
NT
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DC/R
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 7, 1949.
DIVEOF
No. 10
NORIHLAT ASIAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only).
JAN 11 1949
08
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
January 6, 1949.
PM
3
0
Honorable
R
894.
670l
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No.
11/
818 of December 31, 1948 on the above subject and to transmit
a summary of Japanese newspaper reactions to current events
for the week of December 31, 1948 through January 6, 1949.
-749
Summary
Foreign affairs received the principal news play in the
week under review, the favorite topics being the course of the
Chinese crisis, the convening of the Eighty-First Congress in
Washington and President Truman's speech on the state of the
A/MJS
nation, and the possibility of the reparations policy for Japan
being revised. Local stories revolved mainly around the local
elections.
Year-End Reviews
FEB 4 1949
Three editorials -- in Asahi, Nihon Keizai and Tokyo Shimbun
-- reviewed the accomplishments of 1948 in a spirit of confidence
FILED
and optimism. Asahi considered that Japan has experienced no
period so full of change as the past three and a half years since
the surrender, called the policies of the Far Eastern Commission
and the Allied Occupation "unusually successful," and regretted
"that we cannot predict the time of the peace treaty.... Apart
from this, the solution of various questions rests with the
Japanese themselves." Asahi considered that the two questions
of first importance are "to grasp the true spirit and not to
imitate the mere forms of democracy" and to "tackle the problem
of economic reconstruction," realizing that this concerns the
Japanese themselves.
Nihon
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 10,
January 7, 1949.
-2
Nihon Keizai even more optimistically claimed that Japanese
"society as a whole has been shifting from the abnormal to the
normal during the past year. This does not mean a return to the
past nor a revival of the old customs. It means that the political,
economic and social distortions have been corrected and that society
as a whole has been stabilized to a certain degree by retaining
what was worth retaining from the past and casting aside what is
inappropriate.... There are bright prospects ahead of us."
In somewhat similar vein, Tokyo Shimbun claimed that during
1948 "as the confusion abated, extremes and shams were severely
criticized and repudiated; the people began to discriminate between
the genuine and the false. In this sense, the year 1948 was the
turning point of postwar Japan."
SCAP's New Year's Message
General MacArthur's New Year's message captured the lead spot
in all dailies on January 1, 1949, except in the communist organ,
Akahata. The editorials prompted by that message in the succeeding
days concerned themselves principally with the restoration to the
Japanese people of the unrestricted use and display of the Japanese
flag. Students of things Japanese are generally agreed that the
Japanese attitude to the flag is not identical with the respect
which Nestern people give it. The Japanese reserve for the Imperial
portrait, and possibly for the Imperial crest, that measure of
reverence which in the West is given to even a tattered bit of
cloth. In view of this difference of approach to the symbolism
of the flag, it is perhaps not surprising that Tokyo Shimbun and
Asahi both called for distribution of new flags to the Japanese
people. The first of these newspapers pointed out that "the majority
of the Japanese people have lost their flags or have turned them
over to other uses. It is our sincere hope that the Government
will take steps to distribute national flags to the people at low
cost." Asahi stated that "although the national flag has been freed,
the people have none in their possession....the Government should
ration real flags to the people."
Elections
The Japanese press has been following the early development
of the election campaign with a statistical as well as an analytical
approach. Several newspapers, outstanding among which is Mainichi,
have been closely tabulating the number of candidates filing for
election. Candidates, according to Mainichi. as of January 5, 1949,
totaled 1357, including 452 Democratic Liberals, 209 Democrats and
188 Socialists. Communist Party Headquarters were quoted by Nihon
Keizai as announcing that the conmunist official slate totaled ll6.
The analytical approach to the elections is still in general terms.
Asahi pointed out that the majority of candidates are new men and
that this fact makes the election significant, and called on "old-
fashioned
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No, 10,
January 7, 1949.
-3-
fashioned candidates" to "retire and give their places to new
candidates. The coming general election must mean the airing
of the House of Representatives."
Yomiuri returned to its tilting against the multiplication
of small parties. This powerful Tokyo daily, whose conservative
slant is more pronounced than either Asahi or Mainichi, stated,
"for Japan's reconstruction the political situation must first be
stabilized, and to accomplish this a strong government must be
formed." Yomiuri therefore considered that "the confusion of a
large number of small parties vying for power must be avoided as
much as possible and a direct advance must be made toward the
ideal of bipartisan politics" (this Mission's despatch under ref-
erence, page 3). In substantiation of its dislike of small parties,
it pointed out that "very small parties are the ones that are
naking lush promises" and therefore "it is sheer folly to accept
the promises of small parties at their face value."
Yomiuri also returned to the charge against the fair-weather
advocates of economic stabilization (this Mission's despatch under
reference, pages 3 and 4). It warned that "some candidates empha-
size that the nine-point program (the United States interim directive
on economic stabilization) is identical with the policy followed
by their parties for years, while others say that it is nothing
but an effort by capital to colonize Japan. These conflicting
claims are, to our regret, being made everywhere by irresponsible
speakers. They only make it more difficult for the general public
to make the right choice." Yomiuri then demanded that constituents
distinguish between truth and falsehood in such speeches.
China
Successive steps in the development of the China crisis have
received editorial attention as thev arose and Generalissimo CHIANG
Kai-shek's New Year's announcement that he would accept "honorable
peace" prompted editorials in several newspapers. Jiji Shimpo, for
instance, considered that the chances for peace in China are slight.,
feeling "with regret that the communists are too imperious to accept
any overtures on the part of the government" and saw "but little hope
for peace in the near future." Mainichi felt that Chiang's message
opened a new phase in the progress of the civil war, but that even
if the Generalissimo refused to resign now, his "retirement....will
come to the fore again in the near future."
To Nihon Keizai the question of China is bound up with world
peace and two paragraphs of an editorial of January 5, 1949 are
quoted, since they are believed to express succinctly a widespread
Japanese attitude of mind:
"The question of China, however, looms as a big issue. If the
communists control the central plains of China, the whole of
Asia will be influenced. Even though the efforts to consolidate
anti-communist influence in Europe succeed, they ma fail in
Asia, and the world balance between the Soviet Union and the
United States may be upset.
"As for
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 10,
January 7, 1949.
-4-
"As for Japan, thanks to the aid of the Allied countries, Japan's
economic recovery is slowly but surely progressing. With the
shift in the balance of power in the Orient as a result of the
advances of the Chinese communists in the central plains of Asia,
Japan's position is being reconsidered. This occasion provides
an excellent opportunity for the Japanese people to regain inter
national confidence and to return to international society as a
propelling force for peace. Every member of the Japanese nation
must put forth his best efforts to rebuild the motherland and
overcome all immediate difficulties."
The Farm Problem
Japanese farming received attention in Asahi and Mainichi. The
former contrasted "bright and gloomy villages" in a long editorial,
finding that the "bright" villages are those in which land reform
has been properly carried out, whereas the "gloomy" villages are those
where "land reforms were carried out by landowners and upper-bracket
farmers." It found that in the "bright" villages the trend is towards
cooperation and collaboration with villagers "brimming with vitality."
On the other hand, it considered that in the "gloomy" villages "the
spirit of selfish personal profit predominates and there are no signs
of cooperation between farmers."
Mainichi approached the question of crop collection quotas in un-
easy fashion, though it did not voice its fears openly as did some of
its colleagues (this Mission's despatch under reference, page 5 et seq.).
Mainichi foresaw that United States assistance in the form of food "is
scheduled for gradual decrease" and for a remedy could only suggest
further "self-sacrifice" on the part of the farmers. Mainichi's too
facile argument, with its chill comfort for the farmers themselves,
was as follows: "The only alternative will be to increase the farmers'
food delivery. The nation must rely upon the farmers' endeavors.
Farmers are the first victims of inflation, and yet the nation must
demand a greater sacrifice of them. As the saying goes, farming is
the foundation of the country. The nation depends upon the farmers'
self-sacrifices for its survival. Farming communities may be crushed
under national pressure, but this must be avoided by government policies."
The newspaper then argued that land should be redistributed in a more
efficient fashion.
Mainichi carried a story about two slave brokers in northern
Honshu under investigation. The newspaper quoted labor standards
officials as saying that these brokers had sold "a large number of
persons, mostly young boys and girls," into forced labor.
Allied Council Meeting
Top news play in Tokyo newspapers was given to the meeting on
January 5, 1949 of the Allied Council for Japan, when the Japanese
police were discussed. Editorial comment had not time to appear
within the period under review.
Respectfully yours,
631.1
W.J. Sebald
AHaden:hh
Original and Hectograph to Dept.
Copy to American Embassy, London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
TO
DATE: February 1, 1949
FROM : MG 1m9
ACD
HL
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 22 of January 14, 1949
Significant newspaper reactions for week ending January 13
were as follows:
1. Contemplated revisions in labor laws were regarded as
having been made necessary by lack of self-restraint on part
of unions.
2. Discussion of Japanese police at Allied Council on
January 5 prompted one editorial advocating improvement in
894.504
εelection and training of police.
3. Comments on elections ran to exhortations to turn
out the vote, to vote for parties rather than individuals
which makes for a lot of small parties. The Nippon Times
sharply attacked the electoral law which, though intended
to guard against political corruption, allegedly had given
894.0
every indication of favoring political machines and older
politicians.
4. Yoshida's intimation that government is contemplating
establishment of a purge appeal committee for primary purpose,
as so reported, to release village and town chiefs purgees and
those purgees who had valuable foreign trade contacts, was
denied by GHQ on January 12.
7
5. A good deal of concern was reflected in most papers
over the complications arising from the fixing of the rice
price at a rate which was regarded as squeezing the farmer
seriously between low prices and high operating costs. No
editorials criticized the etabilization directive calling
FILED
for increased food production.
1949
C
S/MC
NE Un
le
6595
Cist.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assignedto
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
POS
for Japan
Tokyo, January 14, 1949.
o2l
DIVISION OF
No. 22
NORTHEASTXASIAN AFFAIRS
119
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only).
JAN19149
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
January 13, 1949.
STATE
IES NCh
E0F
PH
5
Honorab
The Secretary of State,
19A49 JAN
Washington.
894.9
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 10
of January 7, 1949 on the above subject and to transmit a summary
of Japanese newspaper reactions to current events for the week of
January 7, 1949 through January 13, 1949.
/1-1449
Summary
Foreign news dispatches received more emphasis during the week
under review than local news, although much of the press deplored
public apathy toward the elections now only ten days away. Principal
local stories drawing editorial comment were the proposed revision
of two basic labor laws and intricate speculations concerning the
establishment of a single yen exchange rate.
Labor Law Revisions
The intention of the Government to present to the new House of
Representatives to be elected January 23, 1949 amendments to the
Labor Union Law and the Labor Relations Adjustment Law briefly cap-
tured lead positions. Subsequent editorial comment in the metropolitan
Tokyo press, as exemplified by Mainichi and Asahi. emphasized that
these revisions are not intended to deprive labor of its rights to
collective bargaining, but have been made necessary by the lack of
self-restraint and the indiscriminate strike tactics of organized
labor in the past year. Mainichi considered that "the imperative
need to place labor-capital relations upon a healthy foundation had
long been felt in all quarters," and since the proposed legislative
amendments did not deprive labor of collective bargaining nor of the
right to
UNCLASSIFIED
lass shict written

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 22,
January 14, 1949.
-2
right to strike, the "contents of the revision bill include no
points which should be opposed when viewed in the light of the
economic situation in Japan today." Asahi blamed labor for the
proposed amendments. "We sincerely regret," it stated, "that the
proposed revision of labor legislation could not have been avoided
by unionists' self-awakening and self-restraint...We agree with
some unionists who assert that the Government and the capitalists
were negligent. They should remember that their strike ideology
has greatly retarded reconstruction." A welcome clarification of
the Government's intentions was furnished by Labor Minister MASUDA,
who stated that the Government did not intend to revise the Labor
Standards Law.
Allied Council Meeting
The meeting of the Allied Council for Japan on January 5, 1949,
when the Soviet Member brought up for discussion the organization of
the Japanese police, prompted Jiji Shimpo to comment that "the mere
hearing of rearming and waging an aggressive war makes the Japanese
people tremble. To associate an increase in police strength with
rearming is indeed a surprise to the Japanese." It admitted that the
police are at present unable to keep peace and order, but suggested
that bettering the police lay in inproving the selection and training
of policemen, giving them pride in their work and raising their
salaries.
New Secretary of State
The resignation of General MARSHALL as Secretary of State re-
ceived top news play and prompted editorials in Yomiuri and Mainichi
in which both joined in recounting his achievements while in office.
The appointment of Mr. Dean ACHESON to succeed General Marshall was
hailed in both editorials as a development of world-wide importance.
Mainichi recalled that Mr. Acheson, when about to resign as Under-
secretary, had stressed the need of rebuilding Germany and Japan into
workshops for the continents of Lurope and Asia. Both newspapers
concurred that the change in Secretaries of State would bring about
no drastic change in United States foreign policy. Yomiuri, however,
stated: "The new Secretary of State, being a civilian, will introduce
a new flavor into America's foreign policy."
Elections
The quantity of news play and editorial comment on the elections
has been considerable. The recurrent theme of editorials was to
encourage
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 22,
January 14, 1949.
-3-
encourage public interest. "Have interest in the elections!" Yomiuri
cried, and several newspapers made the point that political rallies
are poorly attended. Yomiuri advised the voters to "vote for parties
rather than individuals," a position taken by a number of other papers.
Mainichi considered that "it is foolish to evaluate candidates aside
from the parties to which they belong." Tokyo Times (Japanese-language)
considered that "history proves that over-emphasis on the individual
results in a number of small parties. Tokyo Shimbun considered that
voting for the candidate as distinguished from the party is dangerous
for democratic government, if the tendency should develop into a public
denial of political parties as a whole.
The English-language Nippon Times stated in an unusually strong
editorial that the electoral law, which was designed to guard against
political corruption, has paradoxically given every indication of
favoring the well-established, older politicians. The Nippon Times
said:
"Under the restrictions imposed by these rules, the use of posters
and handbills is virtually prohibited; the sending of campaign
literature through the mails is severely limited; house-to-house
canvassing is forbidden; and speech-making is limited to a very
few meetings held under official auspices except for impromptu
street-corner soap-box rallies where the candidate must be present
in person. Except for the impromptu street meetings, expenses for
virtually all permissible campaign activities are to be defrayed
from the public treasury."
"It is an open secret," this newspaper stated, "that there is
wholesale resort to surreptitious illegal campaigning and, being carried
on under risk of arrest, this black market campaigning is more expensive!..
Even here, Nippon Times found that the experienced, old-time, reactionary
politicians have the advantage due to their smoothly functioning machines,
while new candidates are likely to be clumsy in their illegal campaigning
and easily detected by the police.
Considerable news play was given to the seizure of an extra issue
by the Communist Party organ, Akahata, as a violation of the Electoral
Law.
Revision of Purge Directive
On January 10, 1949 Premier YOSHIDA revealed that the Government
is considering the establishment of a committee of appeal for the re-
screening of certain categories of purged Japanese officials. He was
quoted in Mainichi as follows: "The Government wants to release im-
mediately from the purge those who held positions of village and town
chiefs during the war and who are capable of contributing to a sound,
healthy growth of local government." Apparently as an afterthought,
he was
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 52 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 22,
January 14, 1949.
-4
he was also quoted as wanting to "unpurge" a number of persons in
order that "if and when foreign trade among private traders is boosted,
the services of men who enjoy the confidence of foreigners" will be
available. Inasmuch as an official of Government Section, General
Headquarters, denied on January 12 any moves to permit the re-screening
of purged categories, Premier Yoshida's trial balloon was punctured
before it had time to get under way. Dai Ichi Shimbun, a general-appeal
newspaper of small circulation and middle-of-the-road conservatism,
though distinctly critical of the Democratic Liberal Party and Premier
Yoshida, flatly considered Premier Yoshida's statement as an electioneer
ing stunt and commented, "Although this (re-screening) is not yet a
problem worthy of special notice, caution should be exercised against
the tricky intentions behind the conservative reactionary forces."
Crop Quotas in the Prefectural Press
The tone of the prefectural press editorials discussing the 1949
rice quotas and the agricultural problem in general was one of accept-
ance of an unpleasant situation. More and more the press is reflect-
ing a consciousness of aggravating difficulties in rural areas, which
apparently sense the complications deriving from Japan's high-cost
agriculture. None of eight editorials scanned, however, took a position
other than that the United States nine-point interim directive calling
for increased food production was warranted. When mentioning the matter,
all tried to justify the assignment of additional rice delivery quotas
when actual harvests exceed pre-planting estimates.
Using sharp language, Sangyo heisai Shimbun found that farmers
are caught in a "squeeze" between low prices for agricultural produce
and high prices for industrial products and feared that "although the
agricultural panic due to overproduction and cheap foreign foodstuffs
is not at hand, the signs of a panic are undeniably becoming apparent."
This newspaper chided labor for "the laborers' policy of resorting to
strikes only for increased wages at the sacrifice of production" and
scolded industry for its "stagnation of production." It also pointed
out that, "while agricultural production has almost regained the prewar
level, manufacturing industries are still unable to produce more than
fifty per cent of the prewar level." It then demanded that the authori-
ties "adopt rigid policies toward mining and industrial enterprises be-
cause increased supply of staple foods has not always been accompanied
by increased production in these fields of industry."
Niigata Nippo commented that Niigata Prefecture's rice delivery
quota has been increased by 1.5%, "which is above the average for the
whole country," and advised all Japanese to remember two points: (1)
that Japanese must exert themselves to the utmost to rebuild their
country before depending on foreign assistance, and (2) food being
in short supply in Japan, "we should have gained the confidence of
foreign countries by making prompt deliveries above quotas before we
were pressed for them." Together with Shin Ehime Shimbun and Too Nippo,
this newspaper
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 22,
January 14, 1949.
-5-
this newspaper considered that SCAP's nine-point directive on
economic stabilization paved the way for the reconstruction of
Japan and its independence. Too Nippo also stated that the maximum
possible collection is an "absolute pre-condition for the importation
of supplementary quantities of food.
Akita Sakigake pointed out that pre-planting estimates were
hitherto only revised downwards in consequence of crop destructions
by flood or other disasters and that the revision upwards when good
harvests occur is a reasonable amendment to the crop delivery quota
system. San-In Nichinichi Shimbun considered that the key to the
delivery problem is whether the quotas are fairly allotted to the
individual farmer.
Dr. Arthur RAPER's Press Conference.
A press conference held in Tokyo on January 10, 1949 by Dr.
Arthur RAPER, Consultant, Agricultural Division, Natural Resources
Section, General Headquarters, in which he discussed his findings
on revisiting a group of thirteen farm villages after an interval
of eighteen months, was surprisingly lightly covered by the Japanese
press. While Doctor Raper was generally optimistic, he referred to
the farmers' "vague fears of an agricultural depression," and was
quoted by International News Service in the Nippon Times as stating
that the farmers were'hot necessarily wrong in their fears."
Respectfully yours,
631.1
eck
AHaden:hh
Original and Hectograph to Department.
Copy to American Embassy, London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ARY
OF THE
EAS
UNITED STATES OF.AMERICA
United atesl Political Adviser
1949 FEB 23
for Japn
Tokyo, Jaduany y 1949
NORTHEAST AZIAN
No. 39
FEB
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only)
4-19-49
DEP:R
cK P
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for Week Ending
NWA
January20, 1949.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
no. 22 of January 14, 1949 and to transmit a sunmary of Japanese
newspaper reactions to current events for the week of January 14
through January 20, 1949.
Summary
Against the background of a continuing current of news and
editorial att ention devot ed to the general elections scheduled
for January 23, top news play during the week under review has
frequently been given to developments abroad having a direct
bearing on Japanese affairs. The announcement of a new policy
governing foreign investments in Japan, the China situation,
and the impending visit to the Far East of Secretary of the Army
Kenneth C. Royall have all in turn taken the news spotlight.
The controversy over hether the press can support and oppose
individual candidates, which captured considerable local coverage,
was discussed in this Mission's despatch no. 38 of January 20, 1949.
SE
Elections
Fublic apathy toward the elections was the central theme of
most editorials with concomitant urgings that the electorate display
more
Ai.
AUG22 1949
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED
6682

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 39,
January 21, 1949.
-2-
more interest. "Awaken to the significance of the general election,"
Nihon neizai pleaded. "Don't be a mere bystander at the elections,"
Asahi urged, and Hainichi stated, "There are people who don't even
know the election date."
The results of a poll conducted by Asahi and published on
January 19, 1949 indicated that sixty-two per cent of persons queried
had not listened to the speeches of any candidates; six per cent had
heard many speeches and thirty-two per cent one or two speeches. The
cyricism of the Japanese electorate was reflected in the replies to
Asahi's question: "Do you think political circles will be set free
from corruption by the general election?" The answers were:
I think so...18
I don't think so.......46%
Can't tell..........
...36%
The conservative papers, including the big three in Tokyo,
have repeatedly urged the Japanese electorate to vote for parties
rither than inlividual candidates. Apart fron its bearing on party
advantage, this caipain is understood to be aimed at avoiding the
complications of having a 1 rge nuaber of very small groups in the
Diet which revolve around personalitics rather than substantive
political issues. Mith regard to possible effectiveness of this
insistence on party loyalty the results of the Asahi poll were in-
conclusive, for to the question "Will you vote for the party or on
the individual nerits of the candidates?" the answers were:
Hill vote for party....
..16%
ill vote for party, but ill consider
merits as well......
..21%
Will vote for personal merits........
.24%
Will vote for personal merits, but will
consider the party as well........
...24%
Don't know........
.15%
In an effort to et away from the advantage to the candidate
who was financ ially better equipped for extensive canpaigning,
and for the purpose of effecting an over-all economy, the Diet
appropriated 730,000,000 (say,2,700,000) to be adninistered by
the National Election Management Comnission in meeting the expenses
of combined campaign arrangements for the present general election.
Nihon neizai and Lomiuri have both been critical of this aspect
of the state-managed election system. Nihon heizai considered
that "funds
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 39,
January 21, 1949.
-3
that "funds for public management of the election are inadequate
and therefore the voters carmot be furnished necessary infonmation."
It listed as an ther criticism that "the regulations are so compli-
cated that the are often interpreted differently by different
people." Yomiuri considered that the public management of elections
is responsible for the lack of public enthusiasm and that "this
attanpt has onl resulted in cuibersone restrictions upon the free
caapaigning activities of candidates." Yoniuri said that "the re-
vision of the el ection law into a public-managed syst em has ended
in failure," but concluded that "despite all the difficulties of
the ecistine electio.. sy sten, eac. voter must do his best to make
the most of thi.: opportunity to exercise his sovereign right."
Mith the election ate only three days away, Yomiuri noted
on January 20 thut, while the people are showing greater interest
in the electione thems lves, t ere i: fear that abstentions may run
fro t enty to fifty por cent of the electorate.
Votins on the Suprene Court
Most ne spaper ave iven largest emphasis to the elections
for the House of Representatives, ut, in fact, the voters will be
asked, in accordance vith a novel provision of the Constitution, to
vote also on Justices of the Supreme Court. hile Akahata, the
Communist rarty organ, advised that they al: be recalled, Mainichi
published one of th few editorials on the subject on January 17
which, countering kahata's wholesale condennation, stated, "It is not
con structive to lismiss all judges ithout a definite reason," but
feared that since the Jap anese people have not yet mastered the
democratic process, "they ill not conduct the coming plebiscite in
a satisfactory manner."
Comunist-socialist Herger
One of the tactics of the comunists in this clection has been
to ery victory befor it is won and they have reported as a fact a
socialist-coamunist merger. Shakai Shimbun, the Socialist Party
weekly organ, as early as Deceaber 30, 1948, c alled attention to
these conmaunist tactics. hile the Shakai Shiabun story is not as
stronly constructed as one might wish, it denounced "these shameless
comaunist tactics" and indicated that the Communist rarty was "per-
turbed by the emergence of the new Farner Labor Farty." This
Socialist rarty denial has hed very little influence on the communists,
who have continued to preach the "socialist-connaunist" merger. On
Jenuary ló Akahata called at ention to the "wonderful development of
the people's revolution for racial independence in China and North
norea on the one hand, nd the worsening of the political corruption,
the economic crisis and the livelihood of the masses at home on the
other."
UNC LASSIFIED

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 39,
January 21, 1949.
-4-
other." It stated that the youth organizations taking part in
what it called "large-scale unification of youth fronts" were the
Youth Communist League, the Anti-Fascist Youth League, the Demo-
cratic Student League, the Japan Farmers' Union Youth Department,
and the ational League of Denocratic Youth. On January 19 Akahata
stated that "Unification of the Labor Front" had become the "slogan
of the working masses" and reported that "the nification of the
political front through the socialist-coununist merger has rapidly
ieveloped and strengthened the party of the proletariat."
Forein Investment s
The announe anent of new policies of the Uccupation gcverning
Corein investnent in Japan prompted detailed news stori of
steps being taten by the Japanese Government in connection Shere-
with end careful editorials -- broadly optimistic and approving --
in the major metropolitan newspapers. Asahi wondered, however,
whethr the Japanese regulat ions ere adequate for the entry of
foreign capital. Yomiuri knocked down the bogy that foreign in-
vestments "might make Japan a colony of the investing nation" and,
after pointing out that investments abroad differ today from those
after the first orld ar, stated that "both capital and national
economy have naturally assuned an international character." Nihon
Kcizai, which pecializes in financial and economic questions, warned
that it would be a "mistake to be excessively optimistic over the
introduction of foreign capital," but noted that such foreign capital
is necessary for economic reconstruction. Jiji Shimpo warned, in
connection ith the fear that foreign investments might make Japan
a colony, that "this danger ill become real if this type of aid
serves onl to sprcad the easygoing spirit of dependence upon the
benevolence of others." ainichi considered that the introduction
of foreign capital as an iaportant conlition for Japan's economic
recovery "is obvious."
Yen xchange Rate
Most editorialists connenting on the new policy governing
foreign investments in Japan linked it somehow or other with the
yen exchange rte. Hainichi in particular considered that it will
speed up the establishment of the single exchange rate. Asahi
stat d that before an exchange rate cai be est ablished the Government
nust stabilize domestic prices "at s low a level as possible," and
considered that otherkise it ill be inpossible to maintain the ex-
change rate and the iaplement tion of the Economic Stabilization
rogram. Sekai heizai discussed various rates fron ¥315 to ¥400 to
the dollar and proposed that "existing export enterprises" should be
pooled so that, "losses and profits being averaged," export business
could be operated at  profit even if the exchange rate were set as
low as ¥315 to the dollar.
UNCLASSIPIED
Secretary

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 39,
January 21, 1949.
-5-
Secretary Royall's Visit
While the contemplated visit of Secr tary of the Army Kenneth C.
RoYAl to the Far Last has received top news play for a couple of days,
editorial co ment has not had time to appear.
Regional Asiatic Defense lact
Several newspapers speculated concerning the possible development:
of n Asiatic defense pact which ould parallel in the racific the
politico-military agreelents recentl, under negotiation by the United
Stat s nd the est crn deno cracies. Jiji Shimpo considered that Chinese
c nditions and tae advocacy by irurier EhRU of India of a conference to
coisider t e Ind nesian problen have "dragged Asia into the cold war between
denocracy and co aunim." Tokyo Shimbun considered that a "movement for
the coclusion of a Fer Lastern defense pact has beco.ne active," and be
licved it "inevit able for certain r sons," anong which are "division of
the world into two spheres of influence,....economic reasons, since the
Far Last ern countries are suppliers of raw aterials....and the parallel
interests of ritain and France in the Far East."
Hainichi waried that "reports of developments in China pronoting
a Far Last ern anti-Comintern pact have not been confirmed," but said that
"it is certain informal negotiations are under way." It considered that
the Asiatic conference called to leet in India "is intended to discuss
the settlement of the Indonesian problem from the standpoint of the
Asiat ic natio.s. The conference neither opposes the United Nations
nor dos it intend to deal with the Indonesian prol lem from a racial
point of view." ainichi considered that the "si nificance of the con-
ference lies in the fact that the Asiatic nations, hich have long been
accu t oned to accepting the status of th governed, are holding a con-
fer nce on their own initiative to find a rcasonable solution for
Asiatic problems." Insofar as Japan is concerned, Mainichi pointed
out that "Japan, which is under occupation, is not permitted direct
participation in any pact or conference," but stated that "Japan's
position as a denocratic nation is clear," though it questioned whether
Japan'; participation in any specific defense pact is justified since
she lias renounced the right to wage war.
The English-language Nippon Times devoted its lead editorial to
this subject on January 20 and while adnitting thit nothing official
substantiates the reports of an Asiatic defense pact, such "a regional
pact to vard off co munist xpansior in the Far East may be the next
Vest em ove in the cold war." This hevspaper discussed the position
of Japan in such a case and said Japan's "only weapon against the
communist
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 39,
January 21, 1949.
-6-
comnunist armies is her moral exanple of perfect peacefulness."
It wondered how effective such a moral example might be and con-
cluded: ".hat is essential to stiffen Japanese resolve to stand
firn against co.umunist assaults is a tangible assurance that Japan
will not in any circunstances be abandoned." It considered that
the United States is still reluctant to be distracted from concen-
tration on the North Atlantic Defense pact but considered that
"the logic of events must necessarily extend theconcept of regional
defense pacts to the North racific region as well, and in this
development Japan has a mo t vit al int erest."
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
631 Japan
Files
dached-acl1.
AHaden:hh
riginal and Hectograph to
Department.
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.90)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
A malid
RAF
United States rolitical Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 23, 1949
file
No. 58
UNCLASSIFIDD (Por Depert ont use nly).
Subjuct: Jap Mewspaper Reactions for Week Endiny January 27, 1949.
ATE
3
2
SS
9
OF
E0
Tthe Honorable
tile
894.9
5
UN
IT
Theecretary of state,
E
Cr
1 ave the honor to peer  1s Mission's despatch no. 39
Sf duary , t  to trensait  suaaury of Japanuse newspaper
reactione t enrre vent for th ce of January 21 through
January 27, 194..
x19
2849
ry
An overwhelnins proportio of we und csitorial attention
nas been devot ed rin  e urder r view to the elections for
the Mouse of Representatives eld on unday, January 23, 1949.
 onservative Denocratic iberal Party landslide and the signi-
Sleunt uin of ho So umortst  ty -- fr four to thirty-five
ats  aturally    t thntio of editorialists. The
prese ucno ledged t Ate mticipation of pathy on the part of
he voters was atsprovet by the attundance at the polls of 68 of
the erigible women amnd so.fe er e n, ivine a national average
of T.ls. The paineipal ee treated by the press in connection
ath the elections were a poesill conflict of left and right, the
relative virtuts f coulition a siagle party cabinets, and the
function: of the opposition.
Left-Ri ht Split in  se
The news took cognisance of the fact that the clear majority
of ko8 seats out of the total of 4ó6 won by the Democratic iberal
Confidential File DMR
arty portends the abandonment of the coalition type of cabinet
thich for sone tine has been rendered necessary by the absence of
sinle party control of the House. The virtual repudiation of the
centrist
UNCLASSTFLED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 58,
January 28, 1949.
-2-
centrist Socialist Farty and the Democratic Party has been noted
by most newspapers, which have accordingly devoted attention to
the iaplications of an absolute conservative control of the House,
accompanied by a relatively large gain of the extreme left as
manifested by thc Communist rarty jump fron four to thirty-five
seats.
"The resilts of the general election indicate that a trend
of direct conflict between left and right ca..ps has already begun
to appear," Asahi said on the morrow of the elections, and interpreted
"the people's way of thinking regarding the present difficult situa-
tion in Japan, both politically and economically," as a demand for
solut ion through a "powerful government." On the same day, Sekai
ieizai disagreed with that position and warned that "mere adherence
to strong conservative principles, it is feared, will serve the
communist position and thus defeat the purpose of the grave task
inposed upon the conservative regine." Returning to the same subject
on the following day, this newspaper feared that "if the opposition
beteen the right and left forces develops into an opposition between
a democratic front of the communists and socialists and a conservative
front, class division will become more conspicuous, and, moreover,
economic recon struction will be seriously obstructed."
In somevhat similar vein, Nihon cizai elt that "the people
have already sensed a threat to democratic politics which may arise
fro.. the opposition of an ultraconservative capitalistic party and
an extreme socialistic group." It continued by pointing out that
Americ an capitalism is being led by Fresident Truman who is devoted
to the progressive social policies of the New Deal and the "Fair
Deal," and concluded th t Japanese conservative parties should be
progressive while the parties repre senting the working classes should
not direct their efforts to revolution. Nevertheless, Nihon Keizai
foresa.: that Japen's political orld will be divided into "the capi-
talism of the conservatives, the social denocracy of the progressives
and te communism of the radical clenents." Jiji Shimpo interpreted
the election results as clearly indicating the will of the majority
of Japanese who upport consurvative politics and capitalism and
reject radical policies.
Defeat of Centrist arties
The decline of the Socialist Party by sixty-two seats and of the
Democratic Farty ly twenty-t.o was flatl, considered by Jiji Shimpo
to be a national judgment passed on the maladlinistration of the
KATAYAMA and AShDA cabinets, a sentiment echoed in varying degrees
by other euitorialists.
Shifting of the independent vote was considered by several news-
papers to be significant in the defeat of the centrist parties.
Typical
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 58,
January 28, 1949.
-3-
Typical of the coment on this point is Sekai Keizai's observation
that "the so-called intelligentsia in urban centers have shifted
their choice fro.. the Socialist to the Communist Party." In an
early editorial Asahi said: "The result of the general election
suggests at first that the so-called niddle-class voters who boosted
the ocialist rarty to become the leading party in the previous
election, nd ho supported he De ocratic nd the People's Coopera-
tive 1arties, were dissatisfied ith the political behavior of the
Katayama and ashida cabinets and he successive scandals involving
politicians."
As thouh repentin its earlier severity Asahi on January 27
joined Mainichi in expressing friendly concern over the future of
the Socialist Farty. Asahi entitled a sub-editorial "Sympathy for
Socialist s" and stated that this was a golden opportunity for "self-
examination" by the Socialist :arty. It continued, "The people should
be good encu to the Farty to await the day hen it makes a comeback,
with deep affection like that ef a mother who has kicked her cub into
a ravine." Hainichi published a lead editorial entitled "To the
Socialist rarty," remarking that "those who have merely profited by
a tide in the affairs of men which lead them on to fortune are likely
to forget their ission and go astray. This is the usual way of a
parvenu nd thi. is the path which the Socialists have followed up
to the present." Hainichi considered that, although the Socialist
Iarty had been re ponsible for the Government for nearly two years,
"it remains doubtful heth'r it has done anything for the welfare of
the working people." It asked the Socialist Party to "return to its
proper poitio. and stand openly for social refora," adding "this is
the only way left for thun to o, ide Ly side ith the communists,
a party of the working people, ithout advocating anti-communism."
Coalition or Sin le-rarty Government
Convers tions bet een Democratic Liberal 1arty president YOSHIDA
and Depcratic rarty president IUtI have naturally prompted certain
neuspapers to consider the po sibility that Democratic Party leaders
may serve .it!. the forthco..ling cabinet nd the party support the
govermment. In strong editorials on the subject, Jiji Shimpo and
Yomiuri advised the Deaocratic rarty to declare itself an opposition
party and not to participate in the fonmation of the cabinet. In a
detailed analysis Jiji himpo consider d tix t should the Denocratic
rarty seek po er Ly joining the De.ocratic Liberal rarty, it would
:iden the spiit betcen the left and the right und force the Socialist
Tarty to lign its lf ith the co.umunists. In the event of a Democratic-
Democratic iberal part coalition, it said "it can readily be seen
that the extremely pugnacious Comaunist rarty would push the Socialist
Party
UICLASSIFIED

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 58,
January 28, 1949.
-4-
rarty around and possibly paint it ith coununist pigmentation."
Jiji Shipo stated that this vas ot an unjustified anxiety since
the Jocialist rty has lost the ajority of its influential leaders
and is on he do n rade, hile the Commumist Farty is in a position
to in over other ninor  rties to its side in the Diet.
Yomiuri.oi t d out that the Democratic Farty has the same con-
servative polic  the Denocratic Liberal Iarty, but considered that
"it cannot evade it  sponcibilities for maladministration" during
the past cighteen wonths when i, formed part of the Government coalition
ith the socialist. It co. sidered that the centrist parties now have
an opportunity to "regroup thcir forces while erving as the opposition."
In the same context Yomiuri returned to its pre-election plank for the
eliminatioa of minor parties and stated: "It is not proper for political
partius having sinilar ideolo ies to fi ht over minor differences, be
cause this tends o create unnecessary political turmoil. Therefore,
we hope that cuch parties ill merge ir it is at all possible."
The handling of the election results and the editorial comment
which has ensued i dicate that the Japanese press is today intensely
alive to the multiple factors linking its dolestic politics to the
world scene.
Respectfully yours,
w.rseonee
W. J. Sehald
631 Japan
AHaden:hh
Original and Hectograph to
Departnent.
Copy to American Enbassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED
2.3.13

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Not
Tokyo, February 4, 1949.
No. 71
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only)
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for Week Ending February 3,
1949
OPY
1les
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
894.9111/
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 58
of January 28, 1949 and to previous despatches on the above sub-
ject, and to transmit a summary of Japanese newspaper reactions
to current events for the week of January 28 through February 3,
1949.
Summary
2-449
Editorial attention has been devoted principally to the
Labor Management Conference held in Tokyo last week and the visit
to the Far East of Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. ROYALL, with
brief attention to the STALIN peace offer and the YOSHIDA Govern-
ment's plans to appoint a seven-man Public Officials Re-screening
Committee.
Stalin Peace Offensive
The International News Service dispatch containing Premier
Stalin's contributions to the Soviet peace offensive was given
excellent news play throughout the metropolitan press, but edi-
torial comment has been confined to two papers, Dai Ichi Shimbun
and Nihon Keizai. The former considered that "new developments
in American foreign policy singe the inauguration of President
TRUMAN, the appointment of Secretary of State ACHESON and the
rumor about the resignation of General CLAY tend to strengthen
this hope (for peace)." Nihon Keizai linked the tentative send-
ing of Chief Justice VINSON to Moscow with the appointment of
12
Secretary
UNCLASSIFIED
873
1945
5

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 71,,
February 4, 1949.
-2
Secretary of State Acheson as indicating American wishes for peace,
but considered that Premier Stalin's statement to INS was aimed at
settling unrest in Russia, preventing the conclusion of the North
Atlantic Security Pact and impeding the rearmament of the United
States. "The chief cause of difficulty lies in Russia's basic
policy -- bolshevization of the entire world," Nihon Keisai said.
"As long as this point remains unsettled, peace declarations are
hardly significant."
Labor-Management Conference
The conferences among representatives of labor and management
held in Tokyo on January 27 and 28, 1949, to promote labor-managemet
cooperation to fulfill the economic stabilization directives prompted
considerable editorial comment, the general tone of which was that
the Japanese economy can be stabilized if all interested parties do
their share. Sekai Keizai considered as a prerequisite "putting the
relationship between labor and management on a scientific and rational
basis, to eliminate their motional differences and to realize the
fair distribution of profits in a peaceful way." Nihon Keizai called
attention to the statement which General W.F. MARQUAT, Chief of
Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, made in his
address at the opening or the conference to the effect that United
States aid would be available only in proportion to the efforts of
the Japanese people themselves, and commented: "What is demanded of
labor and management at present is not discussion whether production
can be increased but exertion of every effort to hike output with the
conviction that they can do t." This newspaper counseled that should
labor and management decline to cooperate, "strong measures should be
taken to secure the necessary cooperation." Jiji Shimpo considered
that "Japan has reached a stage wherein labor and management must
unite to bring about the nation's economic independence in line with
the nine-point Economic Stabilization Program." Asahi emphasized
"the principle of the equality of burdens" to be borne by labor and
management in carrying out the Economic Stabilization Program. Asahi
also noted that since issuance of the United States interim directive
the basic policies concerning Japanese recovery had changed slightly
in direction, and stated that instead of the United States assisting
Japanese economy to recover, "the Economic Recovery Program has shifted
to that of revival by self-help." Mainichi considered it to be "highly
desirable that both labor and capital endeavor to settle (their disputes)
from an intelligent and cooperative standpoint instead of resorting to
force or being obsessed with ideologies such as 'labor aggression' or
'capital aggression.'"
In a
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 71,
February 4, 1949.
-3
In a second editorial after the conferences had closed,
Nihon Keizai noted that the principle that wages be stabilised
at present levels was adopted. It pointed out, however, that
the questions of revision of the labor laws and care for the
unemployed were left unsettled by the conference, together with
"industrial rationalization." (This latter phrase is used to
mean industrial efficiency)
Yomiuri approached its discussion of the Labor Management
Conference from a alightly different angle and took the oppor
tunity to warn that the labor movement in Japan is at a crossroads.
Yomiuri pointed out that in the history of Japan's labor movement
the term "labor-management cooperation" has long been looked on
with suspicion, though, it added, "without any definite, logical
basis." It said: "Under the current circumstanees, emphasis must
be placed on the national point of view rather than on the class
viewpoint. To raise the nation's economy to a level of self-
sufficieney must be the supreme objective for all Japmese." To
that end Yomiuri considered "the first requisite to the reconstrue-
tion of union activities is to eradicate the formalistic idea that
unions are a medium of struggle." This newspaper considered it
to be "self-evident that if one wishes to develop the enterprise
to which one belongs he must cooperate with the operator. This
problem has nothing to do with political ideologies."
Discussion of Communist-Socialist Merger
The Socialist Party's refusal of the Communist Party's formal
invitation to join it received wide news coverage but inconsiderable
editorial comment, as though the socialist position had been fore-
seen and naturally expected. Continuing the previously noted
solicitude for the future of the Socialist Party (this Mission's
despatch under reference, page two), Yomiuri advised the socialists
to expand their appeal "to seek the support of a large class of
workers out side of organized labor and tenant farmers." Yomiuri
considered that if the Socialist Party would rid itself of "squeam-
ishness at being called the third bourgeois party," it could perhaps
merge with a part of the Democratic Party and of the People's
Cooperative Party "to form a completely new organization." In some-
what similar tone, Tokyo Nichi Nichi (affiliated with Mainichi)
advised the Socialist Party to make its comeback by claiming to be
social reformers.
Purge Appeal Committee
The Yoshida Government's bland moves to create a Public Official
Re-screening Committee have been reported step by step, but the
only
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
eeS AM
Tokyo's Despatch No. 71,
February 4, 1949.
-4-
only editorial on the subject which has come to the attention of
this Mission was published in Jiii Shimpo. This newspaper approved
the idea of such a new committee to which purged persons could
appeal for re-screening, but warned that "neither abolition nor
relaxation of the present purge directive is thinkable." Jiji Shimpo
considered that as a result of the 'mechanical application of the
purge directive we shall naturally look forward to the resumption of
the Appeal Committ ee."
Secretary Rovall's Visit
The visit to Japan and the Far East of Secretary of the Army
Kenneth C. Royall has released a flood of speculative oditorials
most of which are mutually repetitive. Secretary Royall's importance
in the national defense organization of the United States, the fact
that he is accompanied by military, financial and economic experts,
and that his visit coincides with present efforts to make plans for
the economic stabilization of Japan, including the establishment
of the yen-dollar exchange rate, have all been noted. The presence
of Lieutenant General Albert C. WEDEMEYER in Secretary Royall's party
was connected by Asahi with the "overwhelming victory of commmist
forces in China," which this newspaper considered "as presenting
important problems to the United States concerning her policy toward
Asia." Mainichi came to the conclusion in its speculations that
"Secretary Royall will assuredly find reason to hope for the inde-
pendence of Japan's economy and to pin hopes on Japan as a bulwark
against any new form of totalitarianism." Hochi Shimbun noted that
Secretary Royall's visit was announced shortly after issuance of
the United States interim directive calling for economic stabilisation
of Japan. This newspaper considered that the second most important
meaning of the mission concerns military strategy in the Far East,
thus accounting for the presence of Lieutenant General Wedemeyer in
Secretary Royall's party. Sekai Keizai considered tht "with Secretary
Royall's visit to this country Japanese economy is going to make
great strides."
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
631
AHaden:hh
Original and hectograph to
Department.
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED
gwou

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
EE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASJAN AFFAIRS Tokyo, February 8, 1949
MARAUS 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 83
UNCLASSIFIED
894.
Subject: Transmitting Copies of The Japanese Press,
Past and Present. 1949.
The Acting United States Political Adviser has the
2-849
honor to transmit herewith, in accordance with standing
instructions, five copies of The Japanese Press. Past and
Present. 1949, a publication prepared and issued by the
Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Editors' Association.
Enclosure:
Five copies of The
Japanese Press. Past
and Present, 1949.
In original and ozalid to
Department
631
AHaden:hh
X
5
CEIV?
CC
9949 MR 1
UNCLASSIFIED
DMR
FILED
2
lw

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.94)
IIIE
JAPANESE PRESS
PAST AND PRESENT
1949
THE JAPAN NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS' AND EDITORS' ASSOCIATION
(Nihon Shimbun Kyokai)

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.93)
NEWSPAPE
NAME OF PREFECTURE
HOKKAIDO
16
NIGATA
③
TOTTORI
②
AOMORI
17
TOYAMA
32
OKAYAMA
CENTER
③
AKITA
18
ISHIKAWA
33
SHIMANE
④
IWATE
9
FUKUI.
34
HIROSHIMA
5
YAMAGATA
20
NAGANO
35
YAMAGUCHI
MIYAGI
②1
GIFU
36
KAGAWA
FUKUSHIMA
22
SHIZUOKA
37
TOKUSHIMA
8
GUNMA
23
AICHI.
38
EHIME
9
TOCHIGI
24
MIE
39
KÖ CHI
10
IBARAGI
25
SHIGA
40
FUKUOKA
①
SAITAMA
26
KYOTO
④
SAGA
12
CHIBA
27
OSAKA
42
NAGASAKI
13
YAMANASHI
28
NARA
④3
ÔITA
14
TOKYO
29
WAKAYAMA
44
KUMAMOTO
15
KANAGAWA
30
HYOGO
45
MIYAZAKI
46
KAGOSHIMA
HANAZA
MATSUE
OTOTTORI
O
YONAGD
19
31
30
回回
FUKUI
33
35
HYOTO
26
OTSU
FUKUOKA
YAMAGUCHI.
HIROSHIMÁ
回
32
KOBE
34
27
41
MOJI
(KOKURA
OKAYAMA
OSAKA
42
④3
OITA
TAKAMATSU
GO
SAGA
36
40
SASEHOO
28
TOKUSHIMA
24
38
MATSUYAMA
KUMAMOTO
KOCHI
NAGASAKI
39
NARA
YOHKAIG
44
WARAYAMA
SHIMABARA
MIYAZAKI
45
O
1
TSU
②9
KAGOSHIMA
46

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
UBLICATION
ASAHIKAWA
JAPAN
①
SAPPORO
HAKODATE
MURORAN
2
AOMORT
HACHINOHE
AKITA
MORIOKA
④
YAMAGATA
NIGATA
⑥
TOYAMA
SENDAI
O
NAGANO
FUKUSHIMA
田
UTSUNQMI
8
YA
MATSUMOTO.
MAEBASHI
MITO-
20
O
LEGENDS
11
10
SUWA
URAWA
14
UNDER
100,000(POPULATION)
KOFU
YA
UNDER
500,000
③
TOKYO
UNDER 1.000.000
15
YOKOHAMA
——OVER 1.000.000
CHIBA
SHIZUOKA
22
12
—MORNING NEWSPAPER
—EVENING NEWS PAPER
THE FIGURE INDICATES
THE NUMBER OF NEWSPAPERS

=== Page 72 === (confidence 1.00)
THE JAPANESE PRESS
Past and Present
1949
THE JAPAN NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS
AND EDITORS'ASSOCIATION
1, 7-chome, Ginza, Nishi, Chuo-ku,
TOKYO

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Publications by J. N. P. E. A.
With a view to contributing to the growth of a free and responsible
press in Japan, the Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Editors' Association has
so far published in Japanese language the following Booklets:
Booklets:
1. SCAP's directives and memorandums concerning Press and Information in
Japan.
2.
Constitution of the Newsprint and Paper Allocation Committee; Provisional
Articles on the Secretariat of the Newsprint and Paper Allocation.
3. Agreement, New York Tribune and Newspaper Guild Of New York.
4. Full Text of General of the Army MacArthur's Message to Congress.
5. "Basic Principles for the Pres in Democracy"—A lecture by Dr. Mott.
6.
Constitution, Collective Bargaining Program, Bargaining Recommendations and
Model By-Laws of the American Newspaper Guild.
7. Constitution and By-laws of the New York Typographical Union—Number 6.
8. Collections of Collective Bargaining Agreements and Articles on "Labor-Capital
Management Councils" in the Japanese Newspaper Industry.
9. "Two Years' Occupation"—Press Release by SCAP.
10. Materials concerning Editorial Rights.
11. Psychological Study of Newspaper Stories—by Prof. K. Hatano.
Books:
1. Japanese Newspaper Annual for 1947.
Y100
2. Japanese Newspaper Annual for 1948-49.
¥450
3. Japan News Photos Annual for 1949 (with English Captions).
Y450
4. Lectures on Journalism (for Editorial Dept.).
¥180
5. Lectures on Journalism (for Mechanical Dept.).
￥250
The "Shimbun Kenkyu" (Bimonthly Magazine for the Special study
of newspapers)
￥40
7. The "Shimbun Kyokai-ho"
(A1 Newspaper for Journalist in
Japan)
¥50 per month.
In addition to the above-mentioned price, the reader is required to send postage.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 1.00)
FOREWORD
The Japanese language is universally acknowledged as being unique and at the
same time an extremely difficult language. This has been one of the greatest deterents
to foreigners in their attempts to gain a full insight into conditions existing in Japan
as well as in gaining an understanding of the way of thinking of the Japanese people,
hindering to no small extent the establishment of international harmony between
Japan and the outside world. The fault lies to an extent with the Japanese people
themselves. They should have striven in a more positive manner to broaden and
deepen international understanding, but, sad to say, their efforts to date have fallen
short of the mark. The fact that the Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Editors' Asso-
ciation has taken upon itself to publish in the English language an outline of the past
and present of the newspaper world in this country lies in no other reason than to fur-
ther international understanding towards Japanese journalism.
We feel safe in saying that journali ;m in Japan, of all Japanese institutions, has
always retained the most democratic features of the country. The history of Japanese
journalistic effort is the long history of a struggle against the various influences that
have retarded the growth of democracy in Japan and of a bitter fight to gain com-
plete freedom of speech against the clancliques of the Meiji Era, government bureau-
cracy and against the military oligarchs. Particularly, during the Taisho Era, when
liberalism made some headway in Japan, Japanese newspapers through its news and
editorial columns succeeded in becoming a dominant social influence, backed as it was
by public opinion yet at the same time standing at the vanguard of public opinion.
However, the so-called Manchurian Incident marked the beginning of ever increasing
suppressive measures against the press on the part of the militarists, until finally, the
pen was forced to succumb to the sword and watch in helplessness the spectacle of
Japan being dragged into the tragedy of the Pacific War.
Only through the crushing defeat was Japan able to re-plant her feet on the
path towards democratic development. The newspaper world also rose from the ashes
of war, broke asunder its shackles and resumed its march towards the complete free-
dom of the press. Today, outwardly, the Japanese press give the impression that it
has retrogressed to a stage of development such as existed at least 20 to 30 years ago.
These surface signs are due to the limitations that have been imposed upon the Japa-
nese press with reference to space and dead-line, factors which stem from the current
shortage of newsprint and other materials and the general unfavorable conditions of
productive activity in Japan. But, in a moral sense the Japanese press has made
marked progress. Newspapermen, first and foremost, as well as the general public have
come to understand the gravity of the mission of the press in a democratic society. A
"free press" is about to take root in the native soil of Japan.
In presenting this book to the general public, we wish to announce that it is
our plan to continue the regular publication of this handbook in the future. It is
6ur sincere hope that from the next edition the publication will show marked improve
ment to become an organized. and regular report on the growth of the "free press" in
Japan.
MASANORI ITO,
President,
Japan Newspaper Publishers'
and Editors' Association

=== Page 75 === (confidence 1.00)
CONTENTS
ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE
Merger and Division of the Political and Economic
JAPAN NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS' & EDITORS'
Departments
ASSOCIATION
1
Editorials and Brief Comments in the Evening
1. Association's Founding
Press
2. Organization
The Newspaper Industry
An Economic Slump and the Press
3.
Activities
A. Editorial Field
Reappearance of the Third Page
1. Organ paper
Speedy Reporting and the Radio
Controlling Influence of the Four Osaka News-
2.
Newspaper lectures
3.
Publications
papers
4.
Educational Field
The Chugai and the Kokumin
5.
Declaration of Editorial Right
The Nijuichi-nichi Kai
The Rise of the Yomiuri and Features of its
6.
News Analysis
7.
Declaration Outlawing Warlike Propa-
management
ganda
The Large Newspaper and Special Newspaper
B.
Business Field
Journalism and their Profession
1. Newsprint
End of the Jiji Shimpo
2. Advertising
The Birth of the Domei News Agency
3. Supply materials
Kokusai as Reuter's Agency
Birth and Development of Rengo
THE CANONS OF JOURNALISM adopted by the
Demand for a Large News Agency
Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Editor's Associa-
Activities of Domei
tion
3
The Sino-Japanese Incident and the War
Propaganda War and the Birth of the Bureau of
HISTORY OF JAPANESE PRESS
..M. Ito..
4
Information
The birth of the Japanese Press
The War and War Correspondents
Articles on the Publication of Newspapers
The Libel Law
THE POST-WAR PRESS IN JAPAN....H. Ono.... 16.
The Large Newspaper and the Small Newspaper
Section 1. The Press Immediately Prior to the War's
The Press and the Political Change in 1882
End
The Political Press
Section 2. The Press Immediately After the War's
The Jiji Shimpo and Yukichi Fukuzawa
End
The Asahi Shimbun in Tokyo
1.
The Press Policy of the G.H.Q.
Tendency toward Impartiality
2.
Responsibility for the War and Democratization
The Nippon Shimbun and the Kokumin
of Newspaper Offices
Public Discussion and Yukichi Fukuzawa
3.
The Communist Issue
The Day of the Yorozu Choho, the Miyako and
4.
Establishment of the Editorial Rights
the Niroku
5.
Committee on Allocation of Newsprint and
The Black Third Page
Newly-risen Newspaper
The Advance of Two Osaka Papers
Section 3. Present Press Circles
Pros and Cons on War
1. Distribution of the Newspapers
War Correspondents
2. Daily Newspapers and their Make-up
Anti-Peace Movements
Tokyo
The Newspaper Enterprise
Osaka
Sales and Advertisements
Northern Kyushu
Improvement of Editorial Functions
The Tokyo Area
Evening Edition and Provincial Editions
The Nagoya District
Movements for Constitutional Government
The Northern Kyushu District
The Rice Riot and the Taisho Nichinichi
The Hokkaido District
World War I and the Press
Nagano Prefecture
Suspension of Publication by the Tokyo Press
Page Make-up
The Paris Peace Conference
The Status quo of the Outstanding Papers
The Washington Conference
The Yomiuri
Victory of Press Diplomacy
The Asahi and the Mainichi
Democratic Tendency and the Suffrage
The Chubu Nippon
The Great Earthquake and Fire and the Tokyo
The Hokkaido Shimbun
Press
The Nishi Nippon
The General Development of the Press and the
Provincial Editions of Large Newspapers
City Desk
Other Influential Papers

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
The Kahoku Shimpo
Electric Communication Instruments
The Chugoku Shimbun
Electric Power Supply
The Sanyo Shimbun
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING IN JAPAN
The Shinano Mainichi
K. Nishibe.... 39
Newspapers with a Circulation of more than
1.
Newspaper as Advertising Medium
100,000
2.
Inflation and Advertisement Rates
The End of pre-publication Censorship
3.
Sales and Advertisements
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT AMONG JAPA-
4.
Management and Advertisement Income
NESE NEWSPAPER WORKERS
23
5.
Transactions relative to Advertisements
Introduction
.M. Tsuda
THE NEWSPAPER COOPERATIVE DISTRIBUTION
(I) The Most Progressive Period
ASSOCIATION ITS PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE
(II) The Period of Introspection
..D. Nagai.... 43
(III) Japanese Labor Union Tactics
1. The Status Quo
(IV) Editorial Rights and Personnel
2. General History
The Statement on Assurance of Editorial Rights
3. The Future
1. The Nature of Editorial Rights
2. The Execution of Editorial Rights
SHOP TALK OF NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING IN
3. The Assurance of Editorial Rights
JAPAN
.C. Koito.... 45
From Editor to Printer
MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR NEWSPAPER
Organization of Editorial Room
INDUSTRY
33
The Kyodo News Service
Japan's Newsprint
.M. Ishimitsu
News Relay
1. Production crippled by War
Ordinary Newspaper Office
Statistical Chart of all Paper Production
Page Make-up
Statistical Chart of Newsprint Production
A. Coal and transportation shortage
SCAP DIRECTIVES AND MEMORANDUMS CON-
B. Loss of Saghalien
CERNING PRESS AND INFORMATION IN JAPAN 48
C. Decrease of Paper Mills
Freedom of Speech and Press
2.
Newsprint, Control, Circulation Change in
Press Code for Japan
paper size
Radio Code for Japan
3.
Democratization of Newsprint Allocation Struc-
Disassociation of Press from Government
ture
Clarification of Censorship Directive
4.
New Post-War Papers, Confusion in Supply and
Further Steps toward Freedom of Press and Speech
Demand; Readjustment
Entire Suspension of Domei News Agency
5.
Cooperation of Newspapers in Newsprint Pro-
Request for Information on Paper Industry
duction
Elimination of Japanese Government Control of
6.
Newsprint Allocation Revision with Public
the Motion Picture Industry
Survey
Revision of Requirement for Printing Materials
7.
Conclusion: Reconstruction Policy
Elimination of Newspaper Publishers' Association's
A. Restoration of Production
Control over Distribution of Paper
B. Reorganization of Production Facilities
November 1945 Allotments of Foreign Paper and
The Clearing House System
Newsprint
Existing Conditions of Other Materials. . .J. Taneda
Control of Radio Communications
Newspaper ink
Suspension of Newspaper Ise Shimbun
Wrapping paper
WHO'S WHO IN THE JAPANESE PRESS
53
Textiles
Ropes
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
66
Leather Belts
Circulation, rates, capital, personnel, supplementary
Rubber
publication, addresses and mechanical facilities of
Dry Mats
Japanese daily newspapers and news agencies
Photographic Sensitive Materials
I. Map, Newspaper Publication Centers in Japan
Photo-engraving Chemicals
II. Newspaper Readers' Chart in Japan

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
À WORD TO OVERSEAS TRADERS
LET DENTSU HANDLE YOUR ADVERTISING PROBLEMS IN IAPAN
Why Dentsu can unhesitatingly recommend its service
It is the largest advertising agency in Japan.
(2)
It has already been in business for half a century.
(3).
It can handle any type of advertisement, anywhére.
(4)
Its unique conveyor process—from planning, preparation of copy,
designing, to the final stages—saves you time and money.
(5)
Its foreign department caters exclusively to the special needs of over-
seas traders.
Phone or call on us for particulars.
DENTSU
NIPPON DEMPO TSUSHINSHA
Head Office:
No. 1, Nishi-Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (57)4111-4114,5911-5918
Branches:
Yokohama, Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, Nagoya, Gifu, Tsu, Shizuoka,
Hiroshima, Niigata, Fukuoka, Kokura, Kurume, Kumamoto,
Sapporo, Otaru, Hakodate, Asahikawa.
THE JAPANESE PRESS
定價三百五十圓
Past and Present
昭和22年12月20日印刷
Edited and Published
昭和22年12月25日發行
by
The Japan Newspaper Publishers'
and Editors' Association
編集兼
東京都中央區銀座西七丁目一番地
1, 7-chome, Nishi, Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo
發行者
津田正夫
Printed by
The Nippon Times Co., Ltd.
東京都千代田區內幸町一丁目一番地
Published December 20, 1948
印刷所
Printed in Occupied Japan
株式會社 日本タイムス社

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Nippon
Times
The Oldest and the Most Reliable English-Language
Newspaper in Japan
Through its pages, the journal strives accurately to
mirror the political, economic, cultural and social aspects
of the nation which is in the midst of the throes of rebirth.
To understand and appreciate Japan under the new
Constitution, its role, aspiration and immediate and ulti-
mate goals as a Democracy, the NIPPON TIMES is the
most suitable medium.
Its foreign news coverage is up-to-date and com-
plete, made possible through arrangements with the
world's greatest news sources: United Press, Associated
Press, International News Service, Reuters, Agence
France Presse, New York Herald Tribune, King Features
Syndicate, Kyodo, Radiopress and Sun-Acme.
NIPPON TIMES, LTD.
1, 1-chome, Uchisaiwai-Cho, Chiyoda-ku,
TOKYO, JAPAN

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
The Mainichi
(ENGLIŚH LANGUAGE DAILY)
History of 25 Years:
While engaged in its primary mission of the impartial dissemination of
news, the English Mainichi has also since founding in 1922 served as an intel-
lectual bridge between Japan and foreign countries. Toward this end, the
paper has augmented its wide domestic news sources with the services of
the United Press Association of America, Agence France-Presse, and other
foreign agencies.
Largest Paid Circulation in Japan:
Having the largest paid circulation of any English language publication
in Japan, the English Mainichi occupies a unique position in the Japanese
journalistic world.
Highly Popular among Intellectual Circles:
The English Mainichi is highly popular among educated English read-
ing Japanese, students and foreign residents both here and abroad. In recent
days the newspaper has carried exclusively the original text of Winston
Churchill's War Memories and Joseph C. Grew's "Ten Years in Japan."
Send 1st Correspondent to U.S.A. and Britain
The Mainichi Press furthermore was the first Japanese newspaper to
send a staff correspondent to the United States and Britain since the end of
war.
Osaka Head Office:
Dojima Kami 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka;
Phones: Fukushima 3331 to 3335
Tokyo Office:
No. 11, 1-chome Yurakucho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo;
Phones: 23-0321 to 23-0331
Moji Office:
Ichome, Kiyotaki-cho;
Phone: 2719

=== Page 80 === (confidence 1.00)
JNPE ASSN.'S ORGANIZATION & ACTIVITIES
ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF
THE JAPAN NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS' AND
EDITORS'ASSOCIATION
I. Association's Founding
shall be engaged in the following types
among newspaper representatives and
of activity for realizing the above-
editors.
While there are many cooperative
mentioned goal:
"Kyodo's position relative to taking
organizations composed of editors and
1. Promotion of education through
over such work was not dissimilar to
publishers in countries throughout the
newspapers.
that of the Nihon Shimbun Renmei.
world, they differ somewhat in policy
2.
External and internal liaison
However, since it was a cooperative or-
and organizational structure, influenc-
work relative to newspaper prob-
ganization of newspapers engaged in
ed by such factors as the nature of
lems.
editorial work, Kyodo agreed to do its
their constituent members, motive of
3.
Publication of an organ paper and
best toward realizing such an organi-
origin and national peculiarities.
pamphlets.
zation, provided that its role was sim-
What, then, is Nihon Shimbun Kyo-
4.
Execution of other matters deem-
ply that of a sponsor.
kai or The Japan Newspaper Publish-
ed necessary by the Board of
"There developments led on June 5 to
ers' and Editors' Association? Deve-
Directors.
Mr. :. 's unanimous election by a
lopments leading up to the establish-
"The need for such a principal orga-
gather. g of representatives of five
ment of this organization, perhaps, can
nization for representing Japan's news-
major Tokyo papers and three provin-
best be gleaned from the following ex-
paper world both within and outside
cial papers as the principal sponsor for
cerpt from the book: "Fifty-Year His-
the country had deeply been recognized
bringing about immediate realization
tory of Japan's Press," written by Mr.
by all parties associated with journal-
of the proposed organization.
Masanori Ito, the Association's pres-
ism.
"After this initial step, members of
ident.
leading newspapers met daily to deli-
"Its incipience, however, came about
"Japan's journalistic world, which
berate on a plan for establishing an
directly from a statement made by Bri-
underwent a striking renovation from
gadier-General Ken R. Dyke, first Chief
editors' and publishers' organization.
about the time of the Surrender—mark-
of SCAP's C.I.&E. Section, on the eve
Parallel with these talks, a subcommit-
ed by the change of the Nihon Shim-
of his departuer home for the United
tee composed of leader writers and edi-
bun Kai to the Nihon Shimbun Kosha
tors met to work out a code of ethics
States.
and to other modifications—in July,
which would be the charter of the pro-
1946, a year after the Surrender, wit-
"In an address to a gathering of in-
posed new body.
nessed the formation of an organ des-
vited Japanese newspaper leaders on
"During this period, close contact
tined to serve as a pillar for national
May 27, 1946, Brigadier-General Dyke
was maintained with SCAP authorities,
recovery. This was the founding of
announced it was General MacArthur's
and those engaged in organizational
the Nihon Shimbun Kyokai (Japan
hope that 'Japan's newspaper circles
work assiduously studied practices
Newspaper Publishers' & Editors' As-
would voluntarily create a single news-
common in the United States with the
sociation—juridical person) and the es-
paper federation for speedily establish-
hope of creating a counterpart setup
tablishment of a canons of Journalism.
ing an ethical standard.' Brigadier-
which would be most suited to Japan's
"Newspapers throughout Japan,
General Dyke's statement, thus, served
peculiarities. A general outline, thus,
which recognized the importance of
to bring the issue to the forefront of
their future mission in bringing about
attention.
was realized toward the end of June.
the country's rebirth as a democratic,
"Had the Nippon Shimbun Renmei
"On June 27, the draft plan was sub-
peace-loving nation, founded the Japan
retained the structure it possessed be-
mitted to a preparatory meeting, and
Newspaper Publishers' and Editors' As-
fore its revision, it would have become
open hearings were held. However, as
sociation with the aim of elevating the
the most logical body to assume respon-
these discussions tended to drag out, a
standards of the journalistic profession
sibility for such activity. The Nihon
special committee composed of mem-
and assuming leadership in democratic
Shimbun Renmei, however, by this
bers of the Asahi, Mainichi, Yomiuri,
guidance. As its charter, the Associa-
time had become an organ confining it-
Nihon Keizai, Tokyo Shimbun, Tokyo
Times, Hokkaido Shimbun, Shinano
tion drafted a Code of Journalistic
self primarily to cooperative sales man-
Mainichi, Chubu Nihon, Kobe, Chu-
Ethics and pledged to collaborate sin-
agement. With its personnel reshuffled
cerely in carrying out in principles.
to meet its revised purpose, the Nippon
goku and Nishi Nihon papers was en-
"The aim of the Association and its
Shimbun Renmei had become incap-
trusted completely with necessary ar-
activity are as enumerated in Article
able of assuming the central role for
rangements.
II and III of its Articles of Incorpora-
swiftly drafting and carrying out a
"After further scrutiny of the draft
tion, which provide:
canons of journalism.
plan, the special committee finally ar-
Article II: The said Association
"Such circumstances led to general
rived at a final draft. This final draft
was unanimously approved by a general
shall endeavor toward the goal of rais-
hope among newspaper circles that the
meeting held within the Shisei Kaikan
ing and maintaining the ethical stan-
Kyodo News Service would shoulder
at Hibiya, Tokyo, on July 23, 1946.
dards of all daily papers throughout
full responsibility for realizing such a
the country and guaranteeing their
needed organization, especially in view
"It was thus that the Japan News-
common interests.
that the latter possessed the greatest
paper Publishers' & Editors' Associa-
Article III: The said
of holding conference
tion and its canon of Journalism, which

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
2
JNPE ASSN.'S ORGANIZATION & ACTIVITIES
mark an epoch in our newspaper his-
of various matters pertaining to news-
press." The names of other Occupation
tory, came into being."
paper legislation with an eye toward
officials and foreign journalists are
furthering the advancement of news-
follows; Lt. Colonel D. R. Nugent
II. Organization
papers.
Chief of CI&E, GHQ, SCAP; Mr, G.
7. Business Committee: This com-
Splane, Jr., News Editor, Press & Pub-
Members: The Japan Newspaper
mittee considers the business aspect of
lication Unit, CI&E, SCAP; Mr. Henry
Publishers' and Editors' Association is
all matters relating to newspaper pub-
Redman, Chief of Information Section
composed of dailies throughout the
lication, such- as acquisition of raw
the British Mission in Japan; Mr.
country which pledge to defend the
materials and rations, and bringing
Vaughn, Chief of UP's Tokyo Bureau
canons of Journalism. The member
about fair advertisement rates and liai-
Mr. R. Brines, Chief of AP's Tokyn
newspapers fall into two classification,
son with advertising agencies.
Bureau; Mr. Charles P. Gorry, AP
namely: Class A members and Class
8. Newsprint Policy Committee:
photographic reporter; Mr. R. Fergus
B members (weekly publications.)
This committee concerns itself with
ACME's Tokyo correspondent; Mr. Bur
The leading staff members of such
matter related to newsprint production
ton Crane, New York Time's correapon-
papers (tentatively, newspaper repre-
and rationing as well as their disposi-
dent in Tokyo.
sentatives, leader writers and editors)
tion for enabling smooth publication.
are considered as individual members.
It possesses a central committee and
3. Publications:
At present, the Association is com-
three regional committees.
Nihon Shimbun Nenkan (Jap
posed of 127 Class A newspapers and
Business Administration: The Asso-
Newspaper Year Book)—annuall
11 Class B newspapers, or virtually all
ciation's business administration is un-
in Japanese.
of the nation's influential newspapers
der the charge of Mr. Masao Tsuda,
Shimbun Kenkyu (Study of News-
and news agencies.
who was elected as the first Secretary-
papers)—a magazine published
Officers: The officers of the Associa-
General of the Secretariat. Mr. Tsuda
every other month.
tion are a president, managing-director,
at one time served in the International
Kyokai Shiryo (Data)—pamphlet
directors and auditors. There are at
Labor Office at Geneva and as Chief of
ready 10 issues.
present 31 papers holding directorship
Domei News Agency's Buenos Aires
The Japan Newspaper Year Book
and four holding auditorship.
Bureau.
(to be published for the first time
Committee: The Association has es-
The Secretariat is composed of the
in 1948 in English).
tablished various types of committees
following sections: Executive Affairs
Shimbun Shashin Nenkan (New
for carrying out necessary work. The
Section, Personnel Section, General
paper Photo Year Book)—bein
individual members of such committee,
Affairs Section, Accountant Section,
planned.
it is needless to say, represent experts
Business Affairs Section, Editorial Sec-
Shimbun Kiji Nenkan (News Yea
in their particular field of work, thus
tion, Filing Section, Organ Paper Sec-
Book)—being planned.
lending high authority to the commit-
tion, Supply Section, Newsprint Sec-
Shimbun Koza (Newspaper Lectures)
tees. The committees and their work
tion, Advertisement Section, Supply
—collection of the Association's lee
are briefly outlined as follows:
Section and News Analysis Room.
tures on newspaper.
1. Editorial Committee: This com-
mittee is entrusted with carrying out
III. Activities
4. Educational Field:
reforms in the editing field and bring-
The Association has and is takin
ing weight to bear on promoting real-
A. Editorial Field
steps to foster journalism courses in
ization of the Code of Journalistic
1. Organ paper:
all universities and higher educational
Ethics.
With the Association's inauguration,
institutions throughout the country by
2. Education Committee: This com-
steps were immediately taken for the
granting subsidies and assistancein
mittee is empowered with the work of
publication oí an official organ paper
securing instructors.
fostering the establishment of journal-
which would serve as a liaison organ
The Association's monetary contri
ism courses in all universities and dis-
among all member papers and draw
butions in 1947 were:
seminating education through news-
them closer together with both refer-
Tokyo University—120,000 yen, Keio
papers.
ence to the technical and spiritual side
University—120,000 yen, Waseda Uni-
3. Organ Paper Committee: This
of newspaper work.
versity—120,000 yen, Kobe Commer
committee undertakes the task of edit-
cial College—25,200 yen, Nippon Uni-
ting the Association's organ paper and
2. Newspaper lectures:
versity—36,000 yen, Tohoku Gakuin
formulating its policy.
The first of a series of lectures con-
—36,000 yen, Kyoto University
30,000 yen, Tohoku University
4. News Analysis Committee: Work-
cerned with newspapers was held in
ing in a news analysis room, this com-
Saga Prefecture, the second in Fuku-
36,000 yen; total—553,200 yen.
mittee scans all articles published by
shima, the third in Kyoto, the fourth
5. Declaration of Editorial Right:
member papers for violations of or ten-
in Tokyo, the fifth in Nagoya and the
The Association on March 10, 1948,
dencies not in keeping with the Canons
sixth in Beppu. The lectures were de-
with the approval of the Board of Di
of Journalism.
livered by experts in their particular
rectors, issued a declaration reiterat
5. Journalistic Canons Committee:
field of journalism to an audience
ing the importance of guaranteeing fre
This body constitutes a committee for
composed of regional newspapermen.
expression of opinion in all paper
handling applications of demurrer
Especially, CI&E, GHQ, SCAP, as well
throughout the country.
made by papers who find themselves
as foreign journalists staying in Japan
in disagreement with the findings of
have furnished great help to The Japan
6. News Analysis:
the News Analysis Committee. The
Newspaper Publishers'& Editors' As-
The Association is undertaking
ruling of this committee on matters
sociation in carrying on these lectures.
careful analysis of all news publishe
relative to the Canons of Journalism is
Major D. Imboden, SCAP official in
by its members for ensuring realizatio
finally subject to approval and neces-
charge of the Japanese press, took the
of the Canons of Journalism.
sary action by the Board of Directors.
trouble to attend the lecture courses all
7. Declaration Outlawing Warlike Pro
6. Legal Committee: This commit-
through the first to the fourth, giving
paganda:
tee engages in investigation and study
addresses on "A Free and Responsible
The Association on November 5, 1947

=== Page 82 === (confidence 1.00)
THE CANONS OF JOURNALISM
adopted a resolution announcing un-
print production and transporta- 3. Supply materials
conditional support of the declaration
tion.
outlawing warlike propaganda passed
b)
Collaboration with the Newsprint
a)
Carrying out liaison work be-
by the plenary session of the United
Allocation Committee.
tween member papers and com-
Nations. It recognized at the sane-
petent authorities with reference
time the peaceful and educational as-
2. Advertising
to newspaper materials and
pects of newspapers.
a)
Planning smooth and healthy
undertakinginvestigations when
development of newspaper ad-
ordered.
B. Business Field
vertisements and releasing such
b)
Faciliating allocation arrange-
1. Newsprint
findings so as to promote fair ad-
ments in response to requests by
a) Collaboration relative to news-
vertisement rates.
newspapers.
THE CANONS OF JOURNALISM ADOPTED
By Japan Newspaper Publishers' and
Editors' Association
The role to be played by newspapers
be inserted.
·would give to others which it supports
in rebuilding Japan as a democratic
3. In treating news, one should al-
is the fundamental character of a demo-
and peace-loving nation decidedly is of
ways remember and be strictly on
cratic newspaper.
great importance. In order to realize
guard against the possibility of such
this mission in the most speedy and
news being utilized for propaganda
VI. Guidance, Responsibility and
effective manner, it is necessary for
purposes.
Pride
every newspaper in the nation to ad-
4. Criticism of persons should be
The principal difference between
here to a high ethical standard, elevate
limited to such as that which could
newspapers and other commercial en-
the prestige of its profession, and fully
be made direct in the face of the per-
terprises is that newspapers in their
execute its functions.
sons involved.
reportorial and editorial activities ex-
Fully aware of the significance of
5. Partisanship in editorial com-
ercise great influence over the public.
their mission, democratic Japanese
ments, which* knowingly departs from
The public chiefly depends on news-
daily newspapers, big and small, have
the truth, does violence to the best
papers as the source of information and
met in the most cordial spirit, organiz-
spirit of journalism.
the basis of their judgment of public
ed the Japan Newspaper Publishers and
events and problems. From this dis-
Editors' Association, formulated as its
III. The Principle of Editorial
tinction arises the public character of
moral charter the Canons of Journal-
Comment
journalistic enterprises and the special
ism and pledged to endeavor with the
An editorial comment should be a
social status of journalists. The reali-
utmost sincerity to realize those prin-
bold expression of the writer's own be-
zation of their responsibility and pride
ciples.
lief and conviction and not a flatter-
by journalists is fundamental in en-
The Canons of Journalism, which
ing speech. Furthermore, in writing
suring their special status. Those two
stress the spirit of freedom, responsibil-
as editorial comment, the wirter should
points must be observed by each in-
ity, fairness and decency, constitute a
maintain the public spirit of being a
dividual journalists.
standard which should govern not only
speaker for those who otherwise have
VII. Decency
news and editorial writers but to an
no means of voicing their opinions.
A high sense of public decency is
equal extent all persons connected
The characteristic of a newspaper as a
naturally required of newspapers be-
with newspaper work.
public organ should be best upheld in
cause of their share in influencing pub-
I. Freedom of the Press
this field.
lic opinion. Such a standard of de-
The press should enjoy complete
IV. Impartiality
cency can be achieved by abiding with
The honor of an individual should
the above-mentioned principles. News-
freedom in reporting news and in mak-
ing editorial comments, unless such
be respected and protected as in case
papers and journalists, when they fail
activities interfere with public interests
of his other fundamental personal
to observe those principle will invite
or are explicitly forbidden by law, in-
rights. Those who are to be criticized
public condemnations and disapproval
cluding the freedom to comment on
should be given the opportunity to de-
by other papers and journalists and in
the wisdom of any restrictive statute.
fend themselves. Mistakes, if made,
the end will be unable to operate or
This right of the press should be de-
should be retraced immediately upon
work. Therefore, all members of the
fended as a vital right of mankind.
receipt of information that the article
Association should make efforts to co-
in question is false, and should be cor-
operate and maintain a higher ethical
II. Sphere of News Reporting and
rected.
standard by promoting their moral
Editorial Writing
V. Tolerance
unity, guaranteeing free access to news
The freedom of news reporting and
A fundamental principle of demo-
material and assisting each other in
editorial writing should be bound by
cracy recognizes the freedom of indivi-
newspaper production. Thus, the as-
the following voluntary restraints:
dual assertions and counter-assertions,
sociation of newspapers which strictly
1. The fundamental rule for news
should be reflected clearly in the edit-
observe the Canons of Journalism shall
reporting is to convey facts accurately
ing of newspapers. The tolerance such
be able to accelerate and ensure the
and faithfully.
as to allot just as much news space
democratization of Japan and simul-
2. In reporting news, the personal
in introducing and reporting the poli-
taneously elevate Japanese newspapers
opinion of the reporter should never
cies which a newspaper opposes as it
to the world standard.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
By MASANORI ITO, Pres.,
The Japan Newspaper Publishers' & Editors' Assn.
The Birth of the Japanese Press
to issue Ordinance No. 451 which placed
and literature, parties, clothing, eating
The inception of the modern press in
a ban on the publication of newspapers
and drinking, the official gazette, trans
Japan is traced back to the Batavia
without getting official approval; each
lation of foreign books, miscellaneous
Shimbun which was a translation of
issue is required to obtain official ap-
foreign stories and all things unharmful
Dutch newspapers imported from Java
proval. As a result of this measure,
to the public.
in the hands of the Shogunate and
newspapers suspended publication one
6. The author or writer of contribut-
published in 1862 by Heigoro Yorozuya,
after another.
ed books, articles or criticisms shall be
dealer in foreign books. Newspapers
On surface indications, this may be
identified when their books, articles,or
other than translations of the foreign
considered a regulation based on official
criticisms are published (with the ex
press which were published by Japa-
sanction but it was in fact the enforce-
ception of poems whose writers are not
nese were the Dajokan Nisshi, the first
ment of an administrative policy
known.)
official gazette issued by the Meiji Gov-
virtually designed to prohibit a free
7. Publication of items making
ernment in Kyoto in 1868, and the
press.
false charge against persons is. banned
Chugai published in Yedo by Shunzo
In 1864 the Kaigai Shimbun came
8. Indiscreet publication of items on
Yanagawa, an official of the Shogunate
into being in the Yokohama settlement
religious doctrines is prohibited.
Government.
as the first translated newspaper in
The Chugai Shimbun and the Kiyo
the hands of private management.
The Appendix
Shimbun in Nagasaki were the only
Again in 1868 the Moshio-gusa followed
1. The Kaisei School has nothing to
two newspapers in those days which
suit. Following the issuance of news-
do with official newspapers.
were turned out by wood printing and
paper regulations, all newspapers ex-
2. Newspapers published in prefec-
all others by hand wood-printing.
cept those published in the settlement
tures shall be censored by prefectural
These journals came into existence in
made a fade-out, thereby causing the
courts.
response to the popular demand for
settlement to play an extremely im-
3. In case foreigners publish news-
information concerning foreign affairs
portant role in the devefopment of the
papers in the Japanese language, he
and the tendency of national govern-
Japanese press.
shall be supervised by taxation office
ment during the Boshin war. This fact
The Newspaper and Publication Re-
in their district and shall report to the
meant that the development of the
gulation, the first of its kind in Japan,
district court whenever necessary. The
press was closely related with the peo-
was issued in 1869. This official
court shall not make mistakes in en-
ple's admiration for the scientific or
measure laid the foundation for the
forcement of the new regulation.
material civilization of Europe and the
growth of the newspaper press in the
4. The Kaisei School supervises
United States, that the press is one of
country, completely united subsequent
newspapers mainly published in Tokyo.
the tools of civilization, and that news-
to the Restoration of Meiji.
5. In case newspapers published in
papermen in those days were the most
The Newspaper and Publication Re-
Tokyo violate the regulation, the Kaisei
modernistic of all the people in the
gulation, No. 135, issued on February 2,
School shall make reports to the Tokyo
country. That a majority of news-
1869, provided:
court which examines the publishers
papermen in those days were either
1. Each newspaper must have its
and fine them according to its judg-
key figures in the Shogunate or intel-
own title.
ment.
lectuals who served their feudal gov-
2. On reccipt of official permission
To name the principal newspapers in
ernment with their knowledge of the
for publication, the publisher is not
the early period, the following can be
Dutch language played an important
required to obtain authorization stamps
mentioned:
role in the development of the Japanese
on every issue of his newspaper before
1. The Yokohama Mainichi Shimbun
press up until the first half of the
it goes out, but he shall submit two
2. The Shimbun Zasshi
Meiji era. But in view of the fact that
copies of each issue to the authorities
3. The Tokyo Nichi Nichi Shimbun
the group of people who best qualified
concerned as soon as it goes off print.
The Tokyo Nichi Nichi had the
for newspaper work with a new knowl-
3. Each issue of the newspaper must
distinction of being the first daily news-
edge of "culture and civilization" in
bear the date and place of publicatior,
paper in Tokyo and it is the oldest
the period of Keio and Meiji were ill
the name of the editor or publisher,
newspaper in existence in Japan.
disposed toward the Shogunate govern-
and its own number.
4. The Nisshin Shinju-shi (popularly
ment, it is readily seen that much could
4. In case a probe into items
called the Black newspaper) which was
not be expected of a healthy and normal
published is necessary, the editor shall
managed by a British resident made
growth of the press in the Meiji era.
be required to offer explanations. If
a notable contribution to the develop-
An article on "A Firm Stand" written
he fails to do so, he shall be fined.
ment of newspaper printing technique.
by Genichiro Fukuchi and published in
5. The newspaper shall publish news
5. The Yubin Hochi Shimbun.
the Kocho Shimbun, No. 16, bears out
items concerning natural calamities,
6. The Choya Shimbun by Publisher
this argument. Because of its slashing
prices, commercial and administrative
Ryuhoku Narushima.
attack upon the Shogunate government,
laws (indiscreet criticism is not per
The memorials for the establishment
not only was Fukuchi arrested and
mitted), military affairs (when the
of a representative legislature present-
cross-examined but the newspaper it-
editor fails to change his misled
ed to the Government in 1874 was the
self was ordered suspended. This and
opinions, he shall be responsible to him-
first expression of public opinion on the
similar incidents led the Government
self) fires, wedding, death, birth, arts
right of the people. With the freedom

=== Page 84 === (confidence 1.00)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
of the press suppressed, newspapermen
cases of this category, however, amount-
official announcements, were written in
increasingly intensified their fight for
ed to 200.
the spoken language. Sales policy took
the people's rights to the point where
The Provision of the Libel Law
a cue from the Yomiuri printed by
antipathy toward the authorities devel-
This Newspaper Regulation provided
lithography in the Shogunate days and
oped into part of the traditional spirit
for the requirement of the person, who
the former's title unmistakably bore
of the journalists in those days. Such
wish to publish newspapers and maga-
this fact out.
journalistic opposition, however, led the
zines, to obtain permission from the
Government to revise the some articles
Home Ministry as well as the proce-
The Press and the Political Change
of the newspaper regulation and in-
dures and forms for application of the
in 1882
stituted the following prohibitions in
permission.
Articles 10 and 15.
It also provided for punishments to
Private organs of public discussion,
be meted out to "persons who instigates
such as newspapers, were responsible
Articles on the Publication of
crimes in writings in newspapers or
for the rise of heated debate on the.
Newspapers
magazines" (Article 12), "persons who
political situation between two distinct
publish articles designed to change or
groups of those days represented by
(Revised in October, 1873)
impair the Government and overthrow
Shigenobu Okuma, councillor of the
Article 10. A ban is placed on the
the state through agitation of the peo-
Meiji Government, who advocated con-
slander of the national polity, discus-
ple to riotings," (Article 13), "persons
stitutional and representative govern-
sions on the law of the land, insistence
who openly abuse the written law, teach
ment on behalf of progressive thoughts
on or publicity of foreign laws, and
the people not to obey the law of the
and Ryotaka Kuroda and Aritomo Ya-
attempts to obstruct the law of the
land, or write articles in defense of
magata who represented the conserva-
land.
those who have violated laws and re-
tive group. One example was the
Article 11. A ban is placed on in-
gulations" (Article 14), "persons who
incident involving a scandal of illegal
discreet criticisms on administrative
publish stories disclosing that the case
sales of government-owned property
laws when they are published in news-
in question is yet to be put on public
by officials dispatched to Hokkaido on
papers.
trial inasmuch as it is under investiga-
a mission of developing that area..
Article 12. Any attempt to impede
tion by court or revealing procedures
The Tokyo Yokohama Shimbun in
the implementation of administrative
concerning trial by judges" (Article
July raised the first voice of attacks
laws by indiscreet publication of religi-
16).
on the authorities involved followed by
ous doctrines is prohibited.
Article 1 of the Libel Law provides,
the Yubin Hochi, the Keihin Mainichi,
Article 13. Any attempt to confuse
"Detection of, and publication of news
the Tokyo Nichi Nichi which lashed out
the public mind and corrupt public
of, any acts to impair the honor of a
at the Government for its wrong policy
morality is banned.
person or persons, whether true or false,
and aroused public opinion against the
Article 14. A false charge against
is considered a libel. Any one who
authorities. This incident paralleled
persons with no ground whatsoever is
abuses or slanders other persons in
the Sieemens case in the Taisho era
prohibited.
their books and writings, or pictures
which gave the press occasion to have
Article 15. Publication of even minor
and portraits, or by displaying, selling,
a vital role in bringing about a political
items concerning the business affairs of
or posting them shall be fined pursuant
shift.
officials in Government office and docu-
to the above mentioned provisions."
At this time, the publication of the
ments related with foreign relations is
Tokyo Jiyu Shimbun, an outstanding
strictly prohibited.
The Large Newspaper and the
newspaper, was started by Prince Kimi-
But documents to be published and
Small Newspaper
mochi Saionji, assisted by Atsusuke
permitted by responsible officials are
(Chomin) Nakae, a scholar of things
exceptions.
Of the newspapers then in circula-
French, as editor in chief. Neither the
tion, the Nichi Nichi, the Choya, the
newspaper regulations for the libel law
The Libel Law
Hochi, the Akebono were called the
was effectively used against Prince
large newspapers, while the Yomiuri
Saionji who raked first among the
A certain newspaper carried an item
Shimbun, the Hiragana Eiri Shimbun,
peers. This newspaper greatly contri-
of a libelous nature concerning a per-
and the Kana Shimbun were named
buted toward the promotion of the
sonal affair of a wellknown figure.
the small newspapers. The distinction
cultural level of journalists as well as
Irked by this incident, a group of intel-
was not based on the number of their
the press itself.
lectuals in those days called "Kyozon
circulation or popularity but on their
Doshu" (Like-minded persons for co-
editorial attitude and their size. There
The Political Press
existence) proposed a plan for institu-
was class consciousness among the peo-
tion of a law respecting the honor of
ple that necessitated the existence of
The line-up of newspapers according
the individual. This motion resulted
these two kinds of newspaper, the large
to their political affiliation was as fol-
in the promulgation in July, 1875, of
newspaper for the "samurai" class and
lows:
the newspaper regulation and the libel
the small newspaper for the "chonin"
1.
The Liberal party:
law. This set of laws, however, swept
or the common people. But it did not
Choya, Jiyu, Rikken Seito
press and publication circles off their
mean that these newspapers stubbornly
2.
The Progressive party:
feet and found them at a loss.
stuck to their policy of exclusion against
Yubin Hochi, Choya, Tokyo-Yo-
In the days of the Meiji era, rela-
each other. They underwent develop-
kohama Mainichi
tions between newspaper readers and
ment. The history of the press in the
3.
The Imperial Rule party:
journalists were characterized by the
Meiji era clearly indicated the process
Tokyo Nichi Nichi, Meiji Nippo,
former's respect for the personal charm
of merger of these large and small
and Toyo Shimpo
of the latter. For this reason, incidents
newspapers into the type of national
4. Neutral: Jiji Shimpo
which occurred from a slip of the pen
newspaper. The popular nature of the
Of all the newspapers in Tokyo and.
by influential journalists gave their
press in Japan was nurtured by the
Osaka which had editorial columns, the
readers a grave shock and official sup-
small newspapers. In 1874, the Yomi-
Jiji Shimpo was the only one that
pression had an unfavorable effect on
uri Shimbun was published with "kana"
maintained absolute neutrality and im-
the reading public. The number of
help to all news stories which, except
partiality on political issues. In the.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
6
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
days of party politics, the main force
place in the national press. But nobody
League (Shimbun Domei) for the pur
of journalists was steered by young
in those days realized that newspapers
pose of further revisioning the news-
politicians who regarded the press as
belonging to Osaka capital would gain
paper and publication regulation. This
an instrument of their rise to power;
such hegemony in press circles in the
was the first instance in which the
newspaper circles were made the foot-
country. The Asahi, more than 60-
Japanese press worked collectively for
hold of these political aspirants; this
year-old, has prospered up to date.
a common cause.
fact explained that newspapers and
The Asahi owes its success to the
In 1889 the Tokyo Nichi Nichi de-
political parties were indivisible.
business ability of the management as
clared its policy of "absolute indepen
In 1884, the Liberal party was dis-
well as to the wisdom and personality
dence" and restored public popularity
banded and the Progressive party
of its makers. In studying this point,
lost during a popular clamor for a
virtually followed suit in the same
one cannot help noticing that there is
revision of treaties with Western
year, thereby giving rise to a slump
between the Asahi and its reading
powers. The Hochi Nichi Nichi which
in the circulation of the Nichi Nichi,
public a human bridge of a Japanese
had undergone a drastic renovation in
the Choya, and the Jiyu as well as
nature that has linked them closely
the hands of Fumio Yano following
terminaitng the day of the political
together. In the old commercial city
his return from a trip in Europe for-
press. Taking advantage of this situa-
of Osaka where the Asahi has operated
feited popular confidence because of
tion, the small newspapers came into
since its inception, it has taken ad-
its advocacy for a revision of the trea-
being one after another and made a
vantage of this good human point that
ties. The Jiji Shimpo, however, in-
long stride in its development. To the
characterizes the sentimental life of
creasingly grew in strength on the basis
group of the small newspapers, the
the Osaka people.
of support from business circles which
Yomiuri, the Tokyo Eiri Shimbun, was
Impartiality and fairness tended to
it had gained since the end of 1878.
added the Iroha Shimbun and in 1884
feature the press in general subsequent
appeared the Konnichi Shimbun, the
to the Taisho era, a sharp contrast to
The Nippon Shimbun and
first evening paper in Japan which was
the period around 1878 when partiality
the Kokumin
the predecessor to the Miyako Shimbun.
was considered the life of the press.
Hard on the heels of these news-
In this conjunction, it should be pointed
In the Meiji era a nationalistic move-
papers came the Kaishin Shimbun, the
out that by and large partial news-
ment came to a head under the name
Eiri Jiyu, the Jiyu-no Sho Shimbun
papers laid emphasis on discussions and
of a cultural campaign calculated to
which smacked of the political press.
those with a business-first policy center-
instigate anti-Europeanization. The
The Jiyu-no Sho operated as an organ
ed their attention on reporting.
Nippon Shimbun was the champion of
The period centering around 1888
this cause. Hard on the heels of the
of Tooru Hoshi, influential political
leader, and after a series of rechristen-
witnessed a change in editorial policy
Nippon Shimbun came the Kokumin
from the political press to an impartial
edited and nanaged by Soho Tokutomi
ing, such as the Jiyu-no To, the Akari
Shimbun, and the Mezamashi Shimbun.
and fair press and emphasis began to
who made a meteoric rise in journalis-
it finally became the Tokyo Asahi
be placed on reporting rather than 6n
tic circles. With a banner of liberalism
Shimbun.
discussion as theretofore. But it could
characterized by universality, Tokutomi
not be denied that the traditionally
forged ahead as both excellent editor
The Jiji Shimpo and Yukichi
partial press in Tokyo was influenced
and publisher. His popularity among
by confliet between Government and
the younger generation and his editorial
Fukuzawa
people as well as ups and downs in
engenuity served to make the Kokumin
The publication of the Jiji Shimbun
politics.
the first circulation builder in Japan
in March, 1882, was signiticant to the
immediately after the Sino-Japanese
history of the Japanese press. The
Tendeney toward Impartiality
War, only several years following its
works of is founder, Yukichi Fuku-
inception.
zawa, had a tremendously great and
As the Constitution was promulgated
profound effect upon the history of
in 1890, the Tokyo Nichi Nichi and the
Public Discussion and Yukichi
cultural and ideological developments
Osaka Asahi issued extras publishing
Fukuzawa
in Japan in the Meiji Era, as it is gen-
the whole text of the national docu-
erally known. That the time grew ripe
ment. The following year witnessed
With the outbreak of the Sino-Japa-
for publication of the Jiji Shimpo in
the convening of the long waited first
nese War, all organs of public discussion
the hands of Fukuzawa in 1885 indicat-
session of the Diet. The part played
unanimously endeavored to promote
ed that society became mature and
by newspapers in reporting news of
the spirit of the people for nationalistic
secure enough for newspapers to take
the Diet was tremendous. Impartial
ends in an attempt to tide the country
a normal course of development. The
and non-partisan newspapers, such as
over the emergeney. For this reason,
birth of the Jiji Shimpo resulted in
the Jiji Shimpo, the Asahi, the Nippon,
the Government freed from worry
promoting the character of not only
the Kokumin, won the confidence of
along this line, forged ahead with its
the press but also journalists as well.
their reading public through making a
plans for prosecution of the war. The
Harmony between government and peo-
correct news coverage. When a bill
Jiji Shimpo regarded as the vanguard
ple was the editorial motto used by
for revision of the newspaper and
of democracy set an exemple as a war-
Fukuzawa in the Jiji Shimpo.
publication regulation was submitted
time public organ of discussion under
to the Diet, heated debate ensued. Af-
the leadership of Yukichi Fukuzawa.
The Asahi Shimbun in Tokyo
ter a serious fight over the issue, how-
Newspapers dispatched a large num-
ever, the national legislature passed
ber of correspondents to the front to
In 1889 the Osaka Asahi bought the
the bill with modifications. As a result,
cover war news. In Osaka, the Osaka
Mezamashi Shimbun from Toru Hoshi,
provisions for prohibiiton of publica-
Asahi and the Kokumin in Tokyo
political leader, and started the publica-
tion were stricken out from the law.
detailed the largest numbers. Com-
tion of the Tokyo Asahi in June of
From the time of the fourth Diet, all
munication facilities had developed
the same year. The Asahi publishing
Tokyo newspapers, except Government
beyond comparison with those in the
company operated on the basis of a
journals, and 31 provincial dailies in-
days of the Seinan Incident of 1878.
business-first policy which gained for
cluding the Osaka Asahi and the Osaka
The war had resulted in a radical in-
the Asahis an overwhelmingly dominent
Mainichi, organized the Newspaper
crease in the number of subscribers.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
Extras were delivered to the remotest
sponsored a get-together party for 30,-
Osaka Asahi held over the Osaka Mai-
sections of the country and intensified
000 laborers in Tokyo at Mukojima in
nichi was the existence of its sister
the popular demand for the news. This
1892, an epoch-making record in the
paper in Tokyo, the Tokyo Asahi.
war was instrumental in proving to
labor history of Japan. Consequently,
the Japanese press that the quality,
Akiyama endeared himself to the
Pros and Cons on War
quantity, accuracy and speed of news
hearts of the masses in general and
reporting have a decisive influence
was regarded by the latter as some
In 1903 as Russo-Japanese relations
upon the management of newspapers.
sort of idol; the circulation of the
grew tense, jingoism broke loose and
Niroku ranked largest next to the
the people at large went along
The Day of the Yorozu Choho,
Yorozu Choho.
harmoniously with the Government
The Miyako and the Niroku
Among other papers which laid em-
with reference to Russia. They even
encouraged the authorities to take a
During the period around 1888, no
phasis on the Third Page and restored
sterner attitude toward Russia. The
their former popularity was the Hochi.
newspaper maintained non-partisan-
Unable to resist the current of the
Nippon, the Tokyo and Osaka Asahis
ship; newspapers were affiliated with
journalistic tendency, the Nichi Nichi,
demanded use of a big stick in relation
some political party or other. In this
the Jiji Shimpo, the Yomiuri, and the
to Russia, while the Tokyo Nichi Nichi,
era was born the Miyako managed by
Mainichi also followed suit, thereby
the Tokyo Mainichi, and the Yorozu
Shuroku Kuroiwa, a genius in news-
bringing about the age of "Third Page."
Choho denounced such a warlike policy.
paper publishing in the Meiji years.
Influence exerted by the Mainichi and
Subsequently, Kuroiwa left the Mi-
the Yorozu Choho in advocating paci-
The Advance of Two Osaka Papers
yako and took over the Yorozu Choho.
fism was strongly felt in public opinion
The Miyako, however, continued to be
In 1873, the Osaka Shimbun was
which ideologically tended to be pro-
a successful journal under the editor-
published but suspended publication in
gressive. But in 1903 all opposition
ship of Daikichiro Tagawa, the only
1876. In 1877, however, the Osaka
papers were trampled down by the
daily in Tokyo that favorably compared
Nippon which was the ancestor of the
authorities who applied heavy pressure
with the Osaka Asahi which held the
Osaka Mainichi came into being. It
to bear upon them and unanimity was
reading public in intimate and family-
was suspended temporarily in 1889 but
achieved in public opinion.
like relations. As a local paper in
came out again under the name of the
Tokyo, the Miyako became indispensa-
Osaka Mainichi with the investments
War Correspondents.
ble to the metroapolitan population.
of more than a dozen financial leaders
To cover the war with Russia, the
Twenty-five years later, the Yorozu
in Osaka. It was not until Kei Hara
Choho which was a sharp contrast to
took over the management of the Osaka
Osaka Asahi and the Osaka Mainichi
the Miyako became exceedingly popular
Mainichi that it was given recognition
dispatched the largest number of cor-
among the people. It operated as the
by the public as a journal capable of
respondents to the front. Their news
vanguard of yellow journalism in
Japan; it initiated what subsequently
competing with the Osaka Asahi.
Editorial techniques employed by Hara
coverage and reporting became full and
greatly improved. All newspapers
detailed and communication techniques
was called the black "Third Page,"
were striking in those days; he open-
centered their energy on speedy report-
which carried only news of happenings
ed telephone communications between
ing in which the Osaka Mainichi won
in society. Since the Yorozu Choho
Osaka and Tokyo for his own paper,
first place. In the matter of issuing
used newsprint of a pinkish color and
employed short-hand writers for rews
extras, the Russo-Japanese war ranked
. operated pursuant to the policy of
coverage, and published the front
first in the history of the Japanese
management pecular to Kuroiwa, it was
page articles written by outstanding
press. In Tokyo, the Jiji Shimpo ex-
looked upon as a champion of "red
scholars who contributed them as
celled other papers, and in Osaka, the
journalism," a coined term to designate
special writers, maintained special cor-
Osaka Mainichi and the Osaka Asahi
a vicious press. As the Yorozu Choho
respondents abroad, restricted the use
did everything in their power to out-.
prospered under this type of manage-
of Chinese characters and simplified
strip the other in putting out special
ment, first-rate political writers, such
the use of kana letters.
feature stories. This competition in
as Hakken Matsui, Tenzan Yenjojo,
Hara was succeeded by Hikoichi
speedy reporting not only represented
Kanzo Uchimura, Shusui Kotoku, flock-
Motoyama as president of the Osaka
a battle in business management but
ed around Kuroiwa one after another.
Mainichi publishing company who like
also an inevitable phenomenon that
When he was around 35 years old, he
Ryuhei Murayama of the Osaka Asahi
compelled newspapermen to adapt
succeeded in increasing the circulation
was a strinkingly outstanding figure.
themselves to the essential praftice of
of his paper to 120,000, a new high for
Motoyama always made it a rule to
journalism, namely, speedy reporting.
all newspapers in Tokyo.
compete with the Osaka Asahi in an
attempt to keep his Osaka Mainichi on
Newspapers keenly competed in the
The Black Third Page
a par with the former; the success in
field of foreign dispatches, but the
this attempt was due to Motoyama's
Osaka Mainichi outran all others. It
During the period of 1898 to 1910
fortitude, excellent business and execu-
dispatched one of its correspondents
another conspicuous figure, Teisuke
tive ability. His cardinal principle of
abroad, Karan Olaflin in Washington,
Akiyama, was active in journalistic
journalism was more thorough-going
D.C.,. to Russia to cover news events
circles; he was responsible for the
than that of his rival paper in &om-
in the enemy country, Russia. Expenses
publication of the Niroku Shimbun
mercialism and "reporting first" policy.
for this attempt was exorbitant and
which made a meteoric rise as a po-
This editorial and business policy was
too heavy for many newspapers to bear,
pular newspaper with chief emphasis
well supported by the trend of the
but profits arising from this expensive
on the Third Page following in the
times, especially in view of the fact
undertaking far exceeded the cost.
steps of the Yorozu Choho. It also
that it was financially backed up by
Japan's diplomacy under the direc-
engaged in muckraking and demanded
businessmen in Osaka.
tion of Foreign Minister Jutaro Komura
voluntary retirement of "woman enter-
In 1902, the circulation of the Osaka
achieved a 100 per cent success in lead-
tainers" from their profession in a fight
Asahi was estimated at 150,000 which
ing opinion at home and abroad. But
with ruffians; the paper posed as an
was claimed by the Yorozu Choho in
when he attended the Portsmouth con-
Yedo cavalier. In addition, the paper
Tokyo. The only strong point the
ference, he was outwitted by chief

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
8
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
Russian delegate Serge J. Witte who
growth of business and industry during
public by offering prizes and sponsoi
knew how to handle newspapermen of
the war. The realization that news-
ing entertainments and. attractiv
the United States, a country of public
paper advertisements were a vital force
events. In those days, the Hochi main
opinion and of the press. Not only
in promotional activities went a long
tained branch offices in provinces an
that, Komura who stuck to the policy
way toward the development of the
the Yorozu Choho exclusive distribu
secrecy in relation to Japanese corre-
newspaper industry.
ing agencies in provinces so that the
spondents covering conference news
If the growth of newspaper business
were in a position to promote thei
failed to manipulate public opinion in
is viewed from the standpoint of cir-
business policy outside Tokyo.
Japan in favor of his diplomacy. His
culation, leading papers achieved a
Advertisements appeared in news
policy shrouded in absolute secrecy
considerable success; the Osaka Asahi
papers in the early period of the Meiji
irked American newspaper circles and
had a circulation of 350,000, the Osaka
cra, but most of them reflected the
tellingly proved the failure of bureau-
Minichi, 320,000, the Hochi, 200,000, the
Government's policy for promotion of
cracy as applied to diplomacy in the
Kokumin and the Yorozu Choho, 170,-
industry. In 1886, Yukichi Fukuzawa
United States with strong public
000, the Tokyo Asahi, 80,000 to 90,000,
established the Sansei-sha which
opinion.
the Tokyo Nichi Nichi, the Yomiuri,
operated as an advertising agency.
The reading public in Japan, there-
and the Miyako, 40,000 to 50,000, the
Hard on the heels of this agency there
fore, had to rely on American news
Jiji Shimpo, 40,000. From these figures
appeared the Koeki-sha, the Kokoku-
sources to get an inkling of what was
one can see how striking strides the
sha, and the Kogyo-sha, all advertising
happening at the Portsmouth con-
Osaka Asahi and the Osaka Mainichi
agencies, one after another. But it was
ference which gave American news
had made. With their strongholds
not until the outbreak of the Sino-
gatherers a good chance to make in-
firmly established in Osaka, these two
Japanese War that various newspapers
roads into Japanese newspapers. Ko-
principal dailies were just about to gain
seriously sought advertisements as
mura's failure to take advantage of the
supremacy over the Tokyo area. This
their main sources of revenue. A radi-
press for manipulation of public opinion
fact proved that a policy of making a
cal increase in the number of pages
in his favor not only impeded his own
newspaper a business proposition in-
and cut-throat sales competition tended
diplomacy at the conference but also
evitably succeeds.
to lay mounting stress on the im-
injured the feelings of the people at
Heated rivalry between the Osaka
portance of advertisements. The kind
home toward him.
Asahi and the Osaka Mainichi found
of advertisements in large newspapers
expression in enforcement of com-
was found limited to books and maga-
Anti-Peace Movements
mercialism dedicated to the service of
zincs in around 1887, but patent medi-
the reading public. Both of them
cincs were the best space buyers in
Speedy in reporting the provisions
focussed their attention on the im-
small newspapers, although they were
set forth in the peace treaty was the
provement of news quality and make-
replaced by toilet articles subsequently.
Kokumin in Tokyo and the Osaka Mai-
up, speedy reporiing, and promotion of
nichi in Osaka. But the Kokumin won
facilities for public service. The devel-
Improvement of Editorial Funetions
public displeasure by advocating the
opment of commereialism in newspaper
treaty. The nationalistic camp de-
circles continued parallel with a further
In 1890, the Osaka Asahi dispatched
nounced the conclusion of the treaty
capitalization of the newspaper in-
Torajiro Tsuda to France to buy a
as a result of the Government's despot-
dustry up to the day of prosperity in
rotation press of Marinoni type which
ism. The situation grew so dangerous
the Taisho era. As a prerequisite,
was installed in its printing shop in
that the authorities had to proclaim a
however, newspapers improved their
Tokyo and Osaka, an epoch-making
state of emergency and restored the
facilities, bolstered sales and advertis-
event in Japanese newspaper circles.
right of the Home Minister to prohibit
ing, strengthened organizations, stream-
It was in 1894 that the Osaka Mainichi
or suspend the publication of news-
lined speedy news reporting, populariz-
purchased this type of rotation press;
papers through an Imperial ordinance.
ed news stories, renovated editorial
other newspapers followed suit after
The Yorozu Choho, the Niroku. the
set-ups designed to promote efficiency
1897. Subsequently the Tsuda type and
Miyako, the Osaka and Tokyo Asahis,
in business and editing, strove to main-
Ishikawa type were completed in 1904
and the Nippon were ordered suspend-
tain neutrality.
and 1906, respectively, and 73 presses
ed.
of these types were bought by the Hochi
To combat the Government's high-
Sales and Advertisements
and other papers by 1913. But these
handed press policy, the Tokyo press
presses were fit for printing magazines,
with the exeeption of the Kokumin and
Mail delivery was the first form of
and the only one used by the Jiji
the Chuo organized the Newspaper
newspaper sales but it was superceded
Shimpo was made for newspaper
League (Shimbun Domei-kai) in Octo-
by direct delivery from the publishing
publication.
ber to force abolition of the Imperial
company, and then from its distributing
The copperplate printing of photo-
ordinance and continued their fight in
agencies. The Hochi took the direct
graphs was first employed toward the
consonant with the Diet. Under heavy
delivery method, but a majority of
end of the Russo-Japanese War by the
pressure by various circles, the Gov-
papers entrusted their distributing
Osaka Mainichi, the Nippon, the Hochi.
ernment withdrew the Imperial ordi-
agencies with the task of delivering
With regard to foreign news agen-
nance in November when the public
them to the readers. In a deliberate
cies, Reuters was the first that entered
regained a normal state of mind.
effort to maintain circulation rapidly
into contracts with Japanese news-
increased during the war, all Tokyo
papers; the Jiji Shimpo concluded an
The Newspaper Enterprise
newspapers employed various methods
agreement with Reuters in 1893. It
of competition with others, such as
has been already mentioned that the
The Russo-Japanese war bore out
winning over distributing agencies,
Osaka Mainichi maintained special
the theory that the newspaper industry
cutting subscription rates which con-
correspondents in the United States
develops whenever war breaks out.
tinued to be evil practices in newspaper
and Europe, but other newspapers in
But it is a grave mistake to assume
circles in Tokyo until the middle of
Tokyo had to be satisfied with Reuters
that war is the only way to prosperity.
1930's.
service for financial reasons. But they
For advertisements in newspapers
In addition, newspapers tried their
were rescued from this predicament by
greatly increased as a rcsult of the best to absorb the current reading
the advent of the Dempo News Agency

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
and the Rengo News Agency which
Mitsunaga and the Dempo News
On the occasion of this success,
supplied foreign news to the Japanese
Agency.
therefore, representatives of various
press.
The first news agency in Japan was
newspapers who played an important
The Osaka Mainichi, however, went
born in the hands of Fumio Yano in
role during the anti-Cabinet campaign
a step further and instituted a system
1886; it was called the Shimbun
decided to institute the Newspaper-
of sending staff members abroad on
Yotatsu Kaisha. This news agency
men's Club, an organ designed to
survey trips or for study, thereby
merged with Jiji news agency which
propell political activities. Susequent-
making a notable contribution to the
had engaged in gathering political
ly, the organization was rechristened as
development of journalism in Japan.
news and operated under the name of
the "Shunju-kai" (Spring-Autumn
The Osaka Asahi followed its tradi-
The Teikoku Tsushin-sha (Empire
Club) and existed until the early periód
tional policy of keeping special interest
News Agency). In .1906, the Dempo
of the Showa era. Shuroku Kuroiwa,
in the Far East; it emphasized the
News Agency was established by Ho-
publisher of the Yorozu Choho, was
importance of covering news of China
shiro Mitsunaga who subsequently an-
elected president.
and Manchuria and hence dispatched
nexed the Nippon Kokoku Kabushiki
Subsequent to the collapse of the
correspondents to these parts of the
Kaisha (Japan Advertising Company,
Yamamoto Cabinet, the press unanim-
world.
Ltd.) and created the Japan Dempo
ously supported the establishment of
Renovation of editorial functions
News Agency in 1907 with capital of
the Okuma Administration and suc-
which were firmly established follow-
¥260,000. Dentsu as it was popularly
ceeded in this attempt. Public support
ing the conclusion of the Russo-
called had operated until the advent
and popularity for the Yorozu Choho
Japanese War were carried out along
of the Domei News Agency in 1936.
and the Asahi which prominently
the line of "reporting first" policy.
figured in the pro-Okuma drive tended
Journalism opened new phases, such
to grow despite political activities by
Movements for Constitutional
as culture and entertainment, replac-
the Journalists' Club. The Okuma
Government
ing news stories in the hitherto import-
Cabinet enjoyed journalistic support
ant Third Page with a new type of
A radical shift toward the business
for its press policy. For the first time
writing governed by a new ideology.
first policy in newspaper circles was
in Japanese history, journalists were
Formerly Third Page had been domi-
marked by three processes; first, stress
decorated by this Cabinet for their
nated by journalists who engaged in
on reporting, second, democratization
meritorious service for the country.
breezy-style writing, but it now came
of editorial functions, and third, a neu-
under the influence of well-educated
tral stand on all issues of the day.
The Rice Riot and the Taisho Nichi
writers with a new sense of the age
With the turn of the Taisho era, organs
Nichi
and culture who played an important
of public discussion vigorously fought
role in the striking development of the
for the establishment of constitutional
Freedom of the liberalistic press vin-
press in Japan following the Russo-
government in the country. They
dicated itself during the rice riot of
Japanese War.
denounced the Katsura Cabinet for
1918. In an attempt to maintain public
But the Third Page tradition con-
looking up to the Emperor for instruc-
peace and order, the Government ban-
tinued to the years that followed.
tions in disregard of the Diet concern-
ing matters which could be properly
ned publication of the news concern-
ing this riot. But the Shunju-kai
settled by the national legislature. It
group adopted a resolution calling for
Evening Edition and Provincial
was about this time that the offices of
retraction of the press and after a
Editions
such Government-backing newspapers
series of negotiations with the autho-
as the Kokumin, the Yomiuri, the
rities, the group successfully forced the
In 1877, the Tokyo Nichi Nichi divid-
Niroku, the Yamato, the Hochi, and
latter to remove the prohibition order.
ed the two-sheet morning edition into
the Miyako were attacked by mobs. .
During this incident, however, the
two parts and distributed them sepa-
rately in the morning and evening.
The Yamamoto Cabinet which suc-
Asahi suffered punishment from a slip
Around 1877, the Yubin Hochi and the
ceeded the Katsura Administration also
of its pan and President Ryuhei Yama-
Tokyo Asahi started the publication of
brought slashing attack from organs
moto had to retire from his post. Hard
.of public discussion which forced
on the heels of his resignation, Nyoze-
evening papers but found that it was
Premier Gombei Yamamoto out of
kan Hasegawa, Ikuo Oyama, Kenji
still premature to continue the attempt.
office, the downfall of the Yamamoto
Maruyama withdrew from the Asahi.
It was Zenhachi Miki who dared to
Cabinet was traced back to the Sie-
It must be pointed out here, however,
publish the type of evening paper
mens incident. Because of their advo-
that their resignation resulted from the
which we see today. Those papers
cacy for the Administration, the offices
extreme leftist democratic tendency of
which published evening editions were
of the Maiyu and the Chuo were at-
the Asahi which fatally clashed with
the Chuo and the Yamato in Tokyo
tacked by irate people. The Siemens
nationalism.
and the Osaka Jiji Shimpo in Osaka.
incident resulted in a frontal clash
Publication of local editions was
between the Government and agencies
World War I and the Press
initiated by the leading Osaka papers,
of public discussion; public rallies
World War I proved the effectiveness
the Osaka Asahi and the Osaka Mai-
against the Yamamoto regime were
of the press and the news agency in
nichi, which had been influential in
held one after another by the Osaka
promoting national ends. Newspapers
provinces. They issued supplements
journalists, by newspapermen in West-
in various countries greatly contributed
for Kyoto and Kobe consumption which
ern and Eastern Japan, and newsmen
toward the consolidation of national
were delivered together with their
in the Kyushu district, thereby spread-
unity by crystallizing public opinion
daily proper. The Kokumin allotted
ing anti-Cabinet fever throughout the
and instigating anti-enemy sentiment
one page for provincial news. The
country. In the face of such nation-
among the people at large. Not only
provincial press greatly developed in
wide opposition, the Yamamoto Cabinet
that, they served their country con-
the days of popular rights, especially
had to resign. Journalists were jubi-
siderably by trying to create world
in Kyushu, Nagoya, Tohoku, and Hok-
lant over their victory, especially in
opinion in favor its cause.
kaido districts, chiefly because of poor
view of the fact that they successfully
By and large, the European war of-
transportation facilities leading to
accomplished what the national legisla-
fered the press and the news agency
these areas.
ture could not.
a great opportunity to make a strik-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
10
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
ing stride in development. It is not
vely misguided by bureaucratic sec-
Public opinion surveys were initiat-
too much to say that the foundation of
recy.
ed by large newspapers. The Asahi
the world press and news agencies was
sent return post cards to more than
laid during the five years of World War
The Washington Conference
several hundred thousand subscribers
I. This was true with Japan. Through-
All large newspapers dispatched cor-
asking their opinions on the suffrage,
out the war, the people kept their eyes
respondents to cover news of the
and survey returns were published in
on the development of the conflagra-
tion and diplomatic maneuvers among
importantWashington conference.
Although the Jiji Shimpo advocated
daily editions. These attempts resulted
in arousing the interest of the public
the participating powers; Japan enjoy-
rearmaments, it gave up its policy in
in the suffrage.
ed an economie boom during that
the light of various conditions preva-
period and kept the、people free from
lent in those days. For this reason,
The Great Earthquake and Fire and
worry at home. In response to this
public opinion in the country unanim-
the Tokyo Press
general tendeney, the press and news
ously demanded that efforts be made
The great carthquake which rocked
agency did their utmost to report
to reach an agreement by conciliation
the entire Kanto area in September 1,
speedily the movements of world
for the promotion of world peace as
1923, reduced the offices of all the 17
powers in international polities as well
well as for a reduction of financial bur-
dailies in Tokyo, excepting the Tokyo
as in war operations.
den on the tax-payers. Inasmuch as
Nichi nichi, the Hochi, and the Miyako,
agencies qf public opinion in Great
to ashes in fires and all printing faci-
Suspension of Publication by the
Britain and the United States stood for
lities and equipment were put out of
Tokyo Press
a reduction of armament, the three
order and operation. In addition, all
During the boom following the con-
great naval powers apparently were
communication lines were severed and
clusion of World War I a labor move-
united for a common cause even prior
reporting functions came to nil.
ment developed parallel with demo-
to the conferonce.
cratic ideology. The wave of its
Journalistic Activities and Recovery of
movement spread to press cireles and
Victory of Press Dipiomacy
Various Newspapers
the entire Tokyo press suspended pub-
The general prineiple to govern the
lication for four days, the first ineident
The great carthquake of Kanto
proceedings of the Washington as an-
of its kind in the history of Japanese
nounced by American delegate Hughes
proved how dreadful effects the sus-
journalism. Subsequently, the first
was warmly received by various
pension of newspaper reporting have
organization of newspaper workers was
upon society, and that the press is
countries. Ninety per cent of Japanese
established under the name of "Kaku-
indispensable to the maintenance of
correspondents covering the conference
shin-kai" with Kanju Kato as advisor.
peace and order in socicty. To quell
agreed to the American plan and
When it was organized, it claimed a
heartily accepted the naval ratio of
public fear and unrest prevalent sub-
membership of a little more than 300.
60 per cent for Japan. To put across
sequent to the earthquake, newspapers
did everything in their power in re-
but in no time it inereased to 800: its
Japan's contensions, the Japanese dele-
main objective was to effeet a raise in
gates to the parley held a series of
porting news of the day. Especially,
the Osaka Asahi and the Osaka Mai-
wages.
press interviews with the foreign cor-
nichi which maintained their offices in
Strikes designed to gain higher wages
respondents, but they neglected to soli-
were started separately by various
cit the cooperation of their own news-
Tokyo were notably active in this res-
papers, but they found it more effective
papermen.
pect.
to put up a connmon front against the
During the Washington conference.
managements with identical demands.
the Jiji correspondent scooped the big-
The General Development of the Press
The Yorozu Choho, the Jiji Shimpo.
gest news of the parely concerning
and the City Desk
and the Yomiuri stubbornly opposed
the Four Power Pact which was to
During the Taisho era, the press
labor's colleetive demand for higher
replace the Anglo-Japanese Alliance.
gradually raised its position of leader-
wages, and the entire Tokyo press
This dispatch, called the Jiji Shimpo's
ship as an organ of public discussion.
simultaneously went on a strike.
"round the world news" was recorded
The management policy of newspapers
Striking employes of 14 newspapers in
as one of the world's biggest seoops.
developed in the direction of profit-
the metropolis numbers 613.
making enterprise and qualities of
Democratic Tendeney and the Suffrage
newspapermen improved.Profit-
The Paris Peace Conference
Subsequent to World War I, demo-
making enterprise, however, foreed a
The peace conference was convened
cracy held sway throughout the world.
number of newspapers to increase its
in Paris to reconstruct peace on the
The Japanese press which proved its
capital and many of them were trans-
ruins of Europe. To this international
effectiveness in bringing forth parlia-
formed into corporations from private
parley were sent a large number of
metanry government by advocating
undertakings. As to organization,
correspondents, 50 strong, but prineipal
constitutional government in the carly
newspapers came to operate under the
newspapers throughout the country. It
period of the Taisho era markedly en-
three main divisions, namely the edito-
was this peace conference which
hanced its power through the two in-
rial bureau, the business bureau, and
initiated the provision of the press
ternational. conferences at Paris and
the printing bureau which formed the
section at any international conference
Washington.With newly-acquired
basis of the present-day set-up. Sub-
hall. As organs of publie discussion
strength and dignity, the press now led
sequently, all-round cditing rationalized
played an important role in deciding
the vanguard of public opinion in a
the functions of the editorial bureau
the victory of the war, so the press
fight for the suffrage which constituted
and the News Editors' Desk (seribu)
heavily counted on the passage or re-
the most important issue of the day
came to take part in the editing of
jection of important issues on the con-
in the country. Stimulated by agen-
the newspaper after it became inde-
ference agenda.
cies of public opinion which advocated
pendent. Colorful activities are wit-
The Japanese Government, however,
democracy and the suffrage, political
nessed in the social news department
had not realized the importance of the
cireles snapped to attention engaged
with reference to news gathering. It
press in both national and international
in vigorous activities concerning the
gained importance in the middle of
affairs; hence its press policy was gra-
popularization of politics.
the Taisho cra. Formerly the social

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
11
news department chiefly centered its of a column and the other, two-thirds
The Newspaper Industry
activities in gathering news of
of a column in length.
masses but it changed its traditional
For similar reasons that no tangible
The Japanese press made a striking
policy to covering news of all kinds
success was achieved in popularizing
stride in the field of management dur-
concerning the life of the people at
the economic news page, attempts to
ing the Taisho era. Thanks to the
large, such as political, economic, ideo-
adapt editorials to the middle class
post-war boom, the diffusion of com-
logical, and cultural. Not only had
readers ended in failure: editorials
pulsory education, the elevation of cul-
the department engaged in making
tended to remain scholastic in nature
ture made it possible for the press to
factual reporting but also it handled
as theretofore, and inevitably opened
feel confident that it could flourish as
explanatory articles regarding major
room for the advent of brief comments
an enterprise, chiefly because of a
topics of the day, thereby gradually
in simple style in evening newspapers.
marked increase in circulation. In the
slipping out of the old garb of the
The brief comment as it was generally
Meiji era a major portion of the press
"Black Third Page." It appeared that
called made up for the defects of
operated as organs of the political par-
various papers were ready to do any-
editorials satisfactorily. The brief
ties. Subsequently, the large news-
thing in their power to excel their
comment column gained sudden pro-
papers divorced themselves from their
rivals in making up the social news
minence shortly after the Asahi
affiliated political parties but they suf-
page.
initiated a column, titled "The Topic
fered from a shortage of fund in their
of the Day," the Nichi nichi, "Day by
efforts to operate independently.
Merger and Divison of the Political
Day," and the Jiji Shimpo, "Views of
In the middle of the Taisho era,
and Economic Departments
the Jiji."
however, the press proved to be a suc-
When the economic page first came
It was also in the latter part of the
cess as an enterprise; it increased ope-
into existence it was generally under-
Taisho era that the sporting depart-
rational capital and developed into cor-
class of readers, for the page was made
stood that it was intended for a special
held a minor place in the social news
ment and the arts department which
cialism was stressed in press circles
porations one after another. Commer-
up in its peculiar way and contained
department gained independence in the
and heretofore-unknown competition
technical terms beyond popular com-
editorial bureau and importance in the
was started by newspapers to, expand
prehension. But economic develop-
news make-up. The expanded scope
circulation. When this competition was
ments following World War I caused
of news gathering by the social news
just about to reach a climax the great
the general public to take interest in
department and a shift in news con-
earthquake of 1923 rocked the entire
news of the economic circles, thereby
tents rendered it impossible to main-
Kanto area and destroyed the offices of
making economic news more important
tain clear-cut space allocations among
virtually all important newspapers in
than heretofore and bringing about a
the economic, political, and social news
Tokyo. An economic slump that fol-
tendency to popularizing the economic
departments and led to a radical
lowed the 1923 disaster finished what it
page of the press. This tendency was
change in editing. All-round editing
had left untouched, namely, adjust-
well reflected in the Jiji Shimpo, the
was an instance which indicated a
ment in newspaper circles.
Tokyo Asahi, the Osaka Mainichi,
change not only in the monopoly of
Outstanding features of the develop-
Subsequently, these papers came to
pages by certain departments but also
ment of the press in the Taisho era
merge their economic and political
in the organization of the editorial
were the publication of evening edi-
departments into one entity to achieve
burcau itself. But in reality, thorough-
tions and provincial editions designed
unity in editing news of the two fields.
going all-round editing was not easily
to increase circulation in provinces in
This innovation resulted from the fact
implemented in both organization and
competition with local newspapers.
that reporters covering these fields
paper make-up. The Osaka press was
The withering of provincial newspapers
were required to have a good know-
quicker than its counterpart in Tokyo
in the vicinity of Tokyo and Osaka pre-
ledge of both and that duplication of
in adopting the newly-introduced way
fectures might be attributed to lack
news coverage by the two different
of editing. It should be mentioned in
of funds for their management, but
departments should be eliminated to
this connection that Osaka press al-
the immediate cause was large news-
clear the way far more active news
ready translated into action the com-
papers published in Tokyo and Osaka
gathering.
mercialism of the press and developed
which expanded their spheres of cir-
A notable change was seen in the
its management into enterprise:
culation on the strength of their pro-
handling of political news, especially
In 1921 Japan participated in the
vincial editions intended for the read-
Diet news.
International Press Conference in the
ing public of a certain definite locality.
United States and became a supreme
As a result, the provincial edition was
Editorials and Brief Comments in the
member of the International Associa-
given mounting importance in press cir-
tion of Journalists. Japan sent her
cles and some large newspapers went
Evening Press
delegation to the International Press
the length to publish more than 20 pro-
The Taisho era which coud be called
Experts Conference held in 1927 which
vincial editions; such phenomena could
the Renaissance of the Japanese press
was attended by 116 representatives of
not be found elsewhere in the world.
in the handling of news and make-up
the important newspapers and news
Demands among newspaper manage-
was characterized by such important
agencies of 38 nations. The Asahi was
ments for the industrialization of the
phenomena as the development of
represented by Seiichi Ueno, the Rengo
press, the expansion of capitalization,
editorials and the advent of brief
News Agency, by Yaichiro Date and
the organization of joint-stock com-
comments in the evening papers which
the Dempo News Agency, by Teiichi
panies, and an increase in profits natu-
markedly promoted the leadership of
Ueda. Their three proposals were
rally resulted in mounting circulation-
the press in society. What was noted
adopted by the conference; the Ueno
building competition. This cut-throat
in the progress of editorials was com-
proposal for "holding up falsified re-
rivalry was staged in provinces also and
pactness and simplicy with which they
porting" was given special attention by
brought about bloodshed incidents in
were written. All editorials became
the representatives. These facts at-
some quarters. As the situation grew
shorter; the Hochi adopted a one-
tested that the Japanese press had
so tight that the Jiji Shompo printed
column editorial, while the Jiji
secured for itself an influential place
its declaration of war against the Asahi
Shimpo made it a rule to put out two
among agencies of the world's public
and the Nichi Nichi. Advertisements
editorials a day, one about one-third
discussion.
were used as a major instrument of this

=== Page 91 === (confidence 1.00)
12
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
competition, for which the enterprise
public opinion, as has been discussed,
tent rival in speedy reporting in 1925
department was created. It must be
were reflected in the way political news
had a serious effect on the press in gen-
noted in this conjunction that the busi-
influenced the reading public. Papers
eral. In reporting news of important
ness policy of newspapers shifted to-
which advocated constitutional govern-
affairs on its bulletin programs, the
ward exclusive sales by their agencies.
ment and party Cabinets continuously
radio left far behind the press which
The enterprise department was estab-
hammered at corrupt party politics.
had to set the news in type and issue
lished to help out the circulation de-
The press in those days staged a
extras to bring it to the reading pub-
partment in carrying out its sales
common front for clean and fair elec-
lic. Unable to stand the situation, edi-
policy.
tions. In this connection, election scan-
torial executives of various newspapers
As circulation-builders in the Meiji
dals were bared, such as the Matsu-
gathered in the autumn of 1932 to map
era, newspapers employed various
shima Red Light District incident of
out plans to restrict news broadcasts
forms of popular appeal, such as
1926, the medal scandal of 1928, the five
by the radio and presented to the lat-
"beauty contests" and "popularity con-
private railway cases and the Echigo
ter a demand that it limit the time for
tests of cinema stars." The Yorozu
railway incident of 1929, which all told
its news broadcasts and set the dead-
Choho sponsored a free essay contest
of political corruption. These scandals
line for the last news bulletin. After
centering around the major two high-
were brought to light by the press.
three years of negotiations, the press
ways of the country, the Tokaido and
finally wrested a concession from the
the Nakasendo, the Jiji Shimpo held a
Reappearance of the Third Page
radio that the latter would not attempt
party for mail-carriers.
to expand news broadcasts in.such a
In those days, the enterprise depart-
Popularization of culture by the press
way as to challenge the former.
ment of a newspaper office was not
resulted in cultural vulgarism. Once
exactly independent, but it came to oc-
the press became property of the mass-
Controlling Influence of the Four
cupy an important place as it took
es, it slipped into a current of popular
Osaka Newspapers
charge of expert planning and execu-
sensationalism. The press concentrat-
tion of important projects sponsored by
ed on speedy reporting by use of air-
In time of an economic slump, big
the newspaper; it contributed toward
craft, wireless, telephoto, and high-
business flourishes at the expense of
the promotion of culture and arts.
speed rotary presses took in American
smaller enterprise. This was true with
civilization as it appeared on the sur-
press circles during the period of the
An Economic Slump and the Press
face but failed to appreciate the cardi-
depression that followed the wartime
nal principles of American journalism.
and post-war boom. At this time, the
It was in the Taisho era that the press
For this reason, the Japanese press un-
four large newspapers in Osaka, the
firmly established its leadership in pub-
knowingly imitated the practices of yel-
Osaka Asahi, the Osaka Mainichi, the
lic opinion. But this did not mean that
low journalism which flourished in
Tokyo Asahi and the Tokyo Nichi Nichi
orthodox democracy was so well en-
some quarters of the United States. At
forged ahead as influential cartels and
trenched in the country, for in those
any rate, the American way found its
clashed headlong with such .important
days socialism and leftist ideology too
place in the handling of the news, in
Tokyo papers as the Jiji Shimpo, the
found their place and gave rise to in-
both tone and subject matter, which
Kokumin, and the Hochi. By conclud-
tensive class conflict, giving an im-
meant the comeback of the Third Page
ing an agreement of business in 1935,
pression that confusion arising from
in the Japanese press.
the Osaka Asahi and the Osaka Mai-
class consciousness was their main ob-
Thinking newspaper executives,
nichi began to tower over other papers.
jective.
In their attempt to increase circula-
In the face of the leftist tendency
sheets as clean as possible despite the
however, tried their best to keep their
tion, they fixed their subscription rate.
of the times among the masses and pub-
rising tendency of yellow journalism.
In no time, the Hochi bowed to this
lic opinion, captains of the press found
But even the Jiji Shimpo which faith-
challenge, but the Jiji Shimpo openly
it impossible to ignore it. Especially,
fought the two Osaka papers with ex-
fully endeavored to protect its own
newspapermen who covered outside
penditure amounting to ¥500,000 that
tradition and dignity had to bow to this
could not suppress their secret urge
current of the times.
deeply cut into its own finance.
to editorialize news stories. At the
The four Osaka papers also conclud-
same time, however, they could not
Speedy Reporting and the Radio
ed an agreement of advertising rates
afford to produce newspapers running
which attracted advertisers from other
counter to the wishes of the intelli-
Competition in speedy reporting
newspapers. This brought down ad-
gentsia and the working masses; this
greatly intensified during this pericd,
vertisement fees. Thus, the four Osaka
veritable fact was more keenly felt
and in some cases brought about come-
papers firmly consolidated their strong-
by the business department than by
dies and tragedies. Furthermore, it
holds in every phase of newspaper
the editorial department. In other
gave rise to a series of falsified report-
business during the period from the
words, it was the demand of capital
ing. For this reason, the large news-
latter part of the Taisho era to the
that prevented newspaper makers from
papers had to face the vital question
early portion of the Showa era. The
turning out goods that were liable to
as to how they would maintain accu-
business success of these journals were
fail the reading public.
racy while competing for speed; if the
well reflected in a marked increase in
That Soho Tokutomi had to leave the
honors of individuals should be im-
their capital; in 1929 the Osaka Mai-
Kokumin which he himself established
paired by falsified reporting, their loss
nichi increased its capital to ¥11,000,-
40 years before graphically indicated
would be unmeasurable. The institu-
000 and subscriptions to 1,500,000. The
that he, a staunch advocate of nation-
tion of the news examination depart-
strength of the Osaka Asahi can be es-
alism, stubbornly stuck to his guns and
ment by the Asahi was designed to give
timated easily in view of the fact that
never yielded to the popular wishes of
a rational solution to this problem.
it far surpassed that of the Osaka Mai-
the day. One could not overlook that
During this period of hectic contests for
nichi.
editorial policy like Tokutomi's served
supremacy in speedy journalism, the
In respect of facilities, the Osaka
to lead the reading public toward the
Jiji Shimpo maintained its traditional
Asahi and the Osaka Mainichi were
left rather than to the right as was
policy of respecting the honor of the
superior to other papers. As of 1931,
intended.
individual.
the maximum number of high-speed
Relations between the press and
The advent of the radio as a compe-
rotary presses held by newspapers in

=== Page 92 === (confidence 1.00)
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
general was eight, but the Osaka and
The Press in Modern Japanese
started the Sunday evening edition and
Tokyo Asahis operated 29 and the
History
the "go" and Japanese checker fea-
Osaka Mainichi and the Tokyo Nichi
tures, and again in 1930, the sports col-
Nichi, 35. In addition, the former had
The early part of the Showa era
umns. In the following year, Shoriki
15 aircraft and the latter 13 for re-
marked the beginning of a fundamental
finally embarked upon the publication
porting activities. In personnel, too,
these journals were superior; the Asa-
shift from liberalism in both national
and international politics and ideology
of the daily evening edition. Thus he
his were manned by such outstanding
to control economy and from indivi-
aspired to make his paper one of the
dualism to totalitarianism. Naturally,
leading journals in the country. In
figures as Taketora Ogata, Toichiro Ha-
rada and Bunshiro Suzuki, while the
the advocates of the status quo and the
1937 he laid major emphasis on the
Tokyo Nichi Nichi was staffed by Moto-
renovationists were pitted against each
news rather than on other reading ma-
suke Kido and Kan Sugiyama, the
other. In the era of the political press,
terial and started the publication of
OsakaManichi by Shingoro Takaishi
newspapers had a role of keeping re-
two evening editions. Due to these
and Shintaro Okumura. What was
novationist influence under control.
striking innovations, the Yomiuri in-
more outstanding about the Osaka Mai-
But they found it necessary to cater
creased its subscribers and attained a
nichi and the Tokyo Nichi Nichi was
to renovationist influence to protect
circulation of 840,000 in 1937, thereby
that Soho Tokutomi who left the Ko-
their profit-making undertakings, and
ranking among the most influential
kumin wrote for these papers articles
ironically enough, they were used by
papers, such as the Asahi and the Nichi
that had a magnetic appeal to a large
thêir arch enemy to defeat the politi-
Nichi in Tokyo. To maintain itself al-
number of readers.
cal parties for which they stood.
ways before the public, the Yomiuri
From time immemorial, it has been
sponsored a series of attractive events,
The Chugai and the Kokumin.
the general practice of newspapers to
such as the Japan Treasury Exhibition,
thrive on sales of war news, whether
the Yomiuri medical center, and invi-
The Chugai (now called the Nippon
in the Orient or in the Occident. As
tation of an American professional
Keizai Shimpo) originally started under
has been stated, the Osaka and the
baseball team. In view of the Yomi-
the name of the Chugai Bukka Shimpo
Tokyo Asahis and the Osaka Mainichi
uri's tremendous success in circulation
in 1876 as an organ of Mitsui financial
and the Tokyo Nichi Nichi financially
building efforts, this period was called
interests. In 1889, the economic daily
were unshakably established during
the "Yomiuri Era."
was rechristened as the Chugai Shogyo
this period. Their tremendous gain,
and continued to gain strength in eco-
however, was a serious loss to the pro-
The Large Newspaper and Special
nomic circles until it found it feasible
vincial press. Even in Tokyo, the Jiji
Newspaper
to publish its evening edition. The
Shimpo which had flourished as the best
The large newspaper in the Meiji era
success of this journal was ascribable
paper in Japan with the backing of the
to the efforts of Kinjiro Yanada, its
Mita financial clique failed to regain
valiantly fought its way ahead as a
publisher.
strength in the face of the ever-rising
political party organ, but in the early
Osaka papers and finally was taken
part of the Showa era, all newspapers
The Nijuichi-nichi Kai
over by the Tokyo Nichi Nichi in 1936.
developed into profit-making under-
The Hochi which represented Noma
takings, exemplified especially by the
The Nijuichi-nichi Kai formerly was
journalism could not check its tendency
Yomiuri and the Miyako. As all news-
an organization of the editorial execu-
of recession despite investments of sev-
papers began to operate virtually along
tives of various newspapers in Tokyo,
eral million yen by Seiji Noma, noted
the same line of policy, distinction be-
but it operated as an institution de-
magazine publisher. Amid this depres-
tween the large newspaper and the
signed to deliberate on problems com-
sion in some circles of the press, how-
special newspaper ceased to exist. Sub-
mon to the press and to promote and
ever, the Yomiuri continued to rise in
sequently, when the Government en-
maintain cooperation and dignity of its
forced controls on the news, features
popularity as a wonderful circulation
members papers. This organization
of individual newspapers grew less
builder. Despite ups and downs in
was inaugurated in 1926 under the
marked to the point where an inevi-
press circles, the total number of sub-
sponsorship of Shoichi Mitoji of the
table issue of their merger cropped up.
scription tended to climb uphill year
Asahi, Shinjiro Yamane of the Koku-
But this did not mean that raison d'etre
min and Masanori Ito of the Jiji Shim-
by year. According to the Police Bu-
for special newspapers ånd trade jour-
po and with the backing of various
reau of the Home Ministry, daily news-
nals completely faded out.
newspapers; its name was taken from
papers with security money numbered
Meanwhile, the publication of pro-
the date at which the organization was
7,081 in 1933 and 7,180 in 1935, 7,531 in
vincial editions by Tokyo and Osaka
born, namely, 21st.
1936. That newspapers tried to get
newspapers heavily cut into the cir-
During the following ten years, the
into circulation prior to the enforce-
culation of the provincial press, there-
Nijuichi-Nichi Kai accomplished far
ment of impending controls perhaps
by forcing the latter into a serious
more than it had expected.
may explain one why the newspapers
financial predicament. In addition, the
To mention a few of its accomplish-
increased in number.
loss of financial backing by the pro-
ments, the organization successfully
vincial financial clique arising from the
gained concessions from the Oji Paper
The Rise of the Yomiuri and Features
financial panic further weakened the
Manufacturing Company concerning
of its Management
position of the provincial press. The
purchase of newsprint, a reduction of
result was that "a newspaper for a
The development of the Yomiuri
telegraph rates, improvement in treat-
prefecture" finally was contemplated
ment of journalists by the police. But
was attributed to Publisher Matsutaro
by the authorities. Governors who
subsequently the Nijuichi-Nichi Kai
Shoriki. When he took over the jour-
came to regard newspapers in their
clashed with the reporters' club in an
nal, it had a circulation of only 50,000.
prefectures as their own organs made
attempt to reform the latter. The re-
To give life to this inconspicuous arts
their press policy as one of the most
sult, however, was unfavorable to the
paper, Shoriki first initiated the publi-
outstanding features of their adminis-
Nijuichi-Nichi Kai and.its spirit began
cation of the radio page which result-
tration. Spurted by this tendency in
to decline; it died a natural death in
ed in an increase of subscribers by
provinces, the Home Ministry moved to
1932.
30,000 in a year. Again in 1926, he
realize "a newspaper for a prefecture."

=== Page 93 === (confidence 1.00)
14
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
Journalists and their Profession
established in 1942 with the organiza-
gle of existence. Merger of these two
In the Meiji era, newspapermen
tion of the Nippon Shimbun Kai.
news gatherers into the national news
were generally regarded as "states-
In short, it took ten years to reach
agency materialized in 1936 under the
men" in view of the functions they dis-
the state of a new order for the press
name of the Domei News Agency, a
charged, but as newspapers began to
through a series of phases, such as
juridical person.
freedom, interference, revolt, control,
operate as profit-making propositions,
It was way back in 1887 that foreign
and self-awakening.
journalists tended to develop into the
news reached Japan by cable and re-
ordinary type of wage earner.
ported in the press. But it was not
End of the Jiji Shimpo
Reporters of the social news depart-
until 1914 when the Kokusai News
ment led the "most glamorous" life
In a serious contest with the Osaka
Agency was instituted that Japan had
in pursuit of the news in those days.
newspaper cartels, the Jiji Shimpo re-
any news service of an international
Reporters of the political department,
ceived serious wounds. But due to
nature. The mission of Kokusai was
however, had "little fun" in covering
subsequent unfavorable developments,
not only to present news of Japan to
their best chiefly because political par-
such as the financial panic, the Man-
the world so that it may form an ac-
ties had been on the decline and news
churian and Shanghai Incidents, the
curate opinion of the country but to
controls restricted the field of journal-
Jiji Shimpo found it impossible to stand
bring news of the world to the read-
istic activities.
on its own feet. In 1936, it finally col-
ing public in Japan. The motive of the
Control regulations were announced
lapsed and completely faded out of the
Kokusai organizers was to tackle the
and explained in the social news page
picture.
rising anti-Japanese movement in the
which also covered cultural news. For
The cause of the Jiji Shimpo's failure
United States which began in the early
this reason, reporters of this depart-
lay in delay in its reorientation to posi-
part of the Taisho era. Kokusai gain-
ment were mobilized to hunt the news
tive in management. Unable to com-
ed in popularity during World War I,
in these fields with the result that their
pete with influential papers in speedy
but its management was entrusted with
journalistic quality underwent a consi-
reporting, the Jiji Shimpo tried to make
John Russel Kennedy, correspondent in
derable change.
up for its handicaps by maintaining dig-
Tokyo of the Associated Press. Sub-
Newspaper manufacturing techniques
nity and public trust which kept the
sequently, however, Kokusai had to
improved greatly parallel with the pro-
daily from degeneration as a leading
undergo a series of trials and tribula-
motion of newspaper business: th need
paper in Tokyo. But the current of the
tions, such as financial predicament
for "news adjusting" newspapermen
times gradually endangered the exis-
arising from the post-war depression,
with a special news sense and techni-
tence of such a newspaper.
the great earthquake of 1923, and fac-
que was keenly felt in press circles.
More fundamental reasons for the
ed a vital need for a fundamental re-
It was about this time that the news
Jiji Shimpo's collapse, however, were
novation in management. A demand
adjusting department came to rank first
found in its failure to take advantage
was generally made that the organiza-
in the editorial burcau. Newspaper
of capital when it was most needed and
tion be staffed with Japanese. As a re-
work in those days was divided among
a feud over a personnel reshuffle in
sult, Yukichi Iwanaga replaced Ken-
such departments as European-Ameri-
1935.
nedy as general manager of the news
can, Far Eastern, women, physical
In 1936, the time-honored Jiji Shim-
agency.
education, proof-reading, communica-
po was taken over by the Tokyo Nichi
tions, transportation, research, photo-
Nichi in the form of merger; its title
Kokusai as Reuters' Agency
graphy.
'was recorded on the daily edition of
Although Kokusai was the only news
Recognition in society of the influ-
the Tokyo Nichi Nichi. It may not be
agency of an international nature in
ence of the press and the advancement
amiss to say that no paper other than
Japan when Iwanaga assumed respon-
of journalist gradually raised the
the Jiji Shimpo that survived through
sibility for it, it in fact virtually operat-
standing of newsppermen in society.
the Meiji, Taisha and Showa eras
ed as Reuters' agency. Sorry over this
would go down in history as a worthy
situation, Iwanaga negotiated with the
Control and Utilization of Press
journal.
representative of Reuters when the lat-
Influence
ter visited Japan in 1923 and success-
The press is a greatly influential me-
The Birth of the Domei News Agency
fully reached an agreement whereby
dium of social reform and propaganda.
Developments of International
Reuters would withdraw from the news
That the Government takes pains to
News Services
field of Japan in return for payment of
control the wartime press in order to
In international wars of propaganda
¥120,000 from Kokusai. Consequent-
unify public opinion at home as well
and ideology, the news plays an impor-
ly, Kokusai established its right of news
as to rouse the national spirit is vivid
tant role. For this reason, the impor-
distribution all over Japan and her ter-
proof that the authorities wish to make
tance of a national news agency was
ritory. Then Kokusai moved to annex
most of this influence of the press to
recognized in Japan at the time of the
Toho, another news agency covering
achieve their ends.
Manchurian Incident. As in other
Far Eastern news. After two years of
negotiations, Kokusai succeeded in tak-
After the outbreak of the China In-
countries ,it took nearly half a century
ing over the rights of Toho and began
cident it was generally held that con-
to develop news agencies in Japan. It
trolled cooperation clicked with the
is recalled in this conjunction that the
to operate under the name of the Shim-
bun Rengo News Agency in 1926.
theory and ideology of totalitarianism.
Nippon Dempo News Agency was or-
According to this school of thought, the
ganized in the 20's of the Meiji era. As
best method of control over the press
international affairs grew complicated
Birth and Development of Rengo
by the Government would lead to the
after the turn of the Taisho era, such
Two years later Iwanaga made a con-
best result. Consequently, the Gov-
news agencies as "Kokusai," "Toho,"
tract of news exchange with Tass on
ernment's press policy indicated a
and "Rengo" came into being one after
an equal footing. . It was about this
swing from control to guidance; news-
another. They entered the news field
time that he tried to translate his ideal
paper publishers were obliged to pre-
of free competition, and by the time the
into reality; he believed that the Asso-
pare for cooperation with the Govern-
Manchurian Incident broke out, only
ciated Press should be the model for
ment in this respect, which was firmly
Dentsu and Rengo survived the strug-
Kokusai in both organization and struced
in

=== Page 94 === (confidence 1.00)
，
HISTORY OF THE JAPANESE PRESS
15
ture. With this belief, he approached
difficulties, it materialized in four years
operations, improvement in the tech-
publishers of important newspapers in
and the national news agency under
nique of war news reporting was vehe-
the country and gained their support
the name of the Domei News Agency,
mently demanded. In other words, the
for his attempt to establish what he
a juridical person, was finally organ-
mechanization of reporting facilities
regarded as the ideal national news
ized. Domei began to operate in 1936.
was popularly desired. It was proved
agency. In 1926, therefore, Iwanaga
The attempt to annex Dentsu had fail-
that newspapers without mechanized
formally laid down the plan for the or-
ed despite several years of negotiations,
reporting forces were powerless in cov-
ganization of the new news agency on
but it was brought to a successful con-
ering the front.
the pattern of the Associated Press.
clusion immediately after the Cabinet
As a result, he established the Nippon
shift arising from the February-26 in-
Propaganda War and the Birth of the
Shimbun Rengo. In 1927, Iwanaga suc-
cident.
Bureau of Information
ceeded to the right of foreign news dis-
tribution from the Teikoku News
Activities of Domei
With the development of the China
Incident, the press not only operated
Agency and embarked on an attempt
With the absorption of Dentsu news
as a public organ of discussion at home
to dominate in the gathering and dis-
gathering functions, the membership of
but played an important role as a
tribution of domestic news. Teikoku
Domei inçreased to more than 160 at
powerful wing of propaganda war. Re-
which was designed to distribute for-
one bound; the first managing direc-
lations between Japan and the United
eign news in the country was therefore
tor was Yukichi Iwanaga. In a short
States deteriorated with the progress of
forced to drop out of the picture, leav-
time after the birth of Domei, the Chi-
the war in China. The press was plac-
ing the task of news distribution solely
na Incident broke out followed by the
ed in a position to lead public opinion
in the hands of Rengo, which was affi-
Pacific War, thereby loading Domei
in advocating the establishment of a
liated with Reuters, and Dentsu which
with increasing national and social res-
new order at home.
monopolized United Press news in
ponsibilities.
Newspapers came into being as or-
Japan. A natural sequel was that Ren-
In 1942, Domei maintained a close
gans of individuals or financial cliques,
go and Dentsu became bitter rivals.
network of correspondents, five branch
then operated in the interest of their
offices, 44 bureaus, some 100 listening
profit-making publishing companies,
Demand for a Large News Agency
posts, and more than 30 radio news
and still later developed into an in-
For many years, the newspapers of
receiving stations throughout the coun-
strument of war during open hostilities.
Japan had entertained a fond hope for
try. More than that, Domei kept in
The importance of the press as detail-
close touch with Manchukuo through
ed above had been recognized by the
the establishment of an influential news
the Manchurian News Agency and with
military; the Government keenly felt
agency capable of carrying on news
China and the rest of the Far East
the need for the establishment of a
activities parallel with first-rate news
through three general zonal bureaus
bureau of information designed to con-
gatherers of the world. On the occa-
and 28 branch offices. It furthermore
trol public discussions. The Govern-
sion of the visit to Japan of Kent Coo-
maintained more than 20 offices and 27
ment, therefore, abolished the Cabi-
per, general manager of the Associated
correspondents abroad.
net Information Department and creat-
Press, Iwanaga succeeded in concluding
Domei's exclusive long distance
ed the Bureau of Information, thereby
an agreement with Reuters on an equal
telephone lines amounted to 6,400 kilo-
implementing unified control over news
footing through Cooper's good offices.
meters and circuit lines numbered 117,
reporting and propaganda work.
Rengo which functioned as an agency
linking points in Tokyo as well as those
virtually subsidiary to Reuters was
in other cities. The number of calls
The War and War Correspondents
placed in a position in 1923 to draw
made by Domei a year totalled approx-
contracts directly with the Associated
As the press grew in importance dur-
imately 300,000. The amount of news
Press, Havas, and news agencies of
ing the war, newspaper war correspon-
distributed rose to 6,000 lines a day.
Germany and Italy. In other words,
dents fought with the pen shoulder to
What should be mentioned about Do-
Rengo developed from the low status
shoulder with soldiers.
mei's public mission was the overseas
of Kokusai which had operated as an
. It was not until after the Manchurian
news broadcasts which went out from
agency of a third-rate nation and as-
Incident that newspapers began to
the wireless stations operated by the
sumed a position equal to those of the
carry on the modern type of speedy re-
Communications Ministry.
five largest news agencies of the world.
porting; reporting facilities were mech-
Subsequently, Rengo found it vital
anized and all possible scientific means
The Sino-Japanese Incident and
to develop into a world-wide news
of reporting were mobilized. In addi-
the War
gatherer in the light of international
tion to ordinary war correspondents,
developments involving Japan. Through
The Marco Polo bridge incident that
the military authorities trained a cer-
realization of this veritable fact, the
broke out in 1937 was an epoch-making
tain number of reporters into what
War Ministry, the Navy Ministry, and
affair in the history of the Japanese
was called a press corps and incor-
the Foreign Office jointly offered to
press. The newspapers which had been
porated it into armed forces.
help in the establishment of such an
forced to strip their liberalistic garb
The number of war correspondents
influential news agency envisioned by
since the outbreak of the Manchurian
dispatched by various newspapers was
Rengo. They agreed on a policy to
Incident reached the stage whereat to
shrouded in secrecy and was never re-
develop their plan on the strength of
make a decisive change in their out-
vealed. But it was said that Domei,
all the daily newspapers of the country
look. They had to quit being enter-
the Asahi and the Mainichi detailed the
and with the backing of the Govern-
taining papers.
maximum number of 1,000 correspon-
ment. Although this plan met with
With the expansion of the theater of
dents, while the Yomiuri sent 500.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 1.00)
16
THE POST-WAR PRESS
THE POST-WAR PRESS IN JAPAN
By HIDEO ONO,
Director of the Journalism Research Institute, Tokyo University.
SECTION I
official plan calling for the abolition
in five years. The following roughly
The Press Immediately Prior to the
and merger of small newspapers in
shows the results of this distribution
War's End
districts under their jurisdiction. When
plan: (parenthese indicate newspapers
the first attempt was completed, the
merged.)
Control on newspapers in Japan
Home Ministry ordered the governors
1. Tokyo: National Newspaper:
began with her international news
to make a move toward realizing the
Asahi, Mainichi, and Yomiuri
agencies although such a measure was
Government's ultimate plan' for a "a
Local Newspapers: Tokyo Shim-
not a preliminary to the enforcement
newspaper for one prefecture." Not
bun (Miyako and Kokumin)
of similar action on the newspapers as
only that, the press was called upon
Trade Journals: Nippon Sangyo-
a whole. It was an attempt by the
to economize space. As a result, ten-
Keizai (Chugai Shogyo and other
Government to turn the situation
dentious social news stories gradually
trade journals)
adversely developing at the League of
faded out of print.
2.
Osaka: National Newspapers:
Nations in Japan's favor. For such pur-
In the meantime, the Sino-Japanese
Asahi and Mainichi
poses, however, the Government
Incident developed into drawn-out
Local Newspapers: Osaka Shim-
needed swch a powerful international
hostilities, causing the Government to
bun (Osaka Jiji and Osaka
news disseminator as Reuters, which
issue an order of national mobilization
Yukan)
it attempted to establish through the
and clamor for the establishment of
Trade Journals: Sangyo-Keizai
merger of the then existing two news
a solid national structure in 1940. In
(Various trade journals)
services of an international nature, the
this conjunction, the press to found it
3.
Northern Kyushu: Nishi-Nippon
Rengo and Dentsu news agencies.
necessary to serap its old order of free
(Fukuoka Nichi-nichi and Kyu-
The merger plan of Rengo and Den-
and profit-making campetition and
shu Nippo). The western edi-
tsu underwent a series of ups and
enter a new phase of its life to operate
tions of the Asahi and the Mai-
downs, but after four years of end-
voluntarily as a public utility, together
nichi.
eavor, it came to a successful conelu-
with political, financial and industrial
4.
Nagoya: Chubu Nippon (Shin
sion with the organization of the
cireles, to concentrate national ener-
Aichi and Nagoya Shimbun)
Domei News Ageney. Domei which
gies on the accomplishment of war
Evening papers published by the
favorably compared with great news
aims.
Asahi and the Mainichi went out
agencies in the world not only coope-
Restrictions on the news and the ra-
of circulation.
rated with the Government in its pro-
tion of newsprint worsened with the
5.
Hokkaido: Hokkaido Shimbun
paganda work but also secured for the
lapse of time, while merger and adjust-
(Eleven newspapers including the
Japanese press independence in world
ment of newspaper enterprises steadily
Hokkai Times were disbanded
news coverage.
proceeded with the exception of large
and paved the way for the esta-
Although the international news
newspapers in Tokyo and "bloc"
blishment of the Hokkaido Shim-
ageney of Japan was thus strengthened
newspapers. Spurred by this tendency,
bun publishing company, Ltd.
to improve her position in world poli-
press cireles jointly took the initiative
It had maintained seven publish-
ties, the independence of Manehoukuo
to implement their own controls and
ing houses in various parts of
reflected Japan unfavorably in world
organized the Newspaper Association,
Hokkaido and let them issue
opinion. The situation was made wrose
the first cooperative organ in the his-
morning and evening editions or
with the development of the Man-
tory of the Japanese press. This new
only morning or evening editions
churian Incident into the Sino-Japan-
organization engaged not only in
in their localities under the same
ese Incident, which resulted in the
adjustment of newsprint allocations but
title. Subsequently, however, the
implementation of newspaper controls
in cooperative distribution of the mem-
number of publishing houses was
in the country.
ber newspapers.
reduced. )
The inception of evert newspaper
But inasmuch as a control organ
6.
In other prefectures only one
controls can be traced to the official
with legal powers was necessary to
newspaper was allowed to circu-
request made in July, 1937, by Premier
adjust and merge large newspapers, the
late with the exception of Hiro-
Prince Ayamaro Kenoye to the press
Government issued the newspaper en-
shima prefecture where in addi-
for cooperation in achieving national
terprises regulations which served to
tion to the Chugoku Shimbun,
ends. In September, the Bureau of
set up the Association of Japanese
the Kure Shimbun continued
Information was established in the
Newspapers to replace the Newspapers
publication because of the Kure
Cabinet to enforce controls over the
Association. The new agency formed
naval base.
press and in November, restrictions on
a distribution-of-newspapers plan for
Inasmuch as the newly-estab-
the use of newsprint were initiated.
the country, which was adopted volun-
lished newspapers were rationed
In the meantime, the Home Ministry
tarily by the newspapers as the yard-
80 per cent of the newsprint allo-
had laid down a plan for adjustment
stick to merge themselves. Conse-
cated for the journals which they
and unification of the newspaper enter-
quently, 104 daily newspapers which
had absorbed, they inevitably
prises in the country with a view to-
existed when the Association was
increased their circulation. As
ward not only unifying public opinion
established decreased to 56 in no time;
witness, the subscription of the
but slashing the use of materials need-
the number of dailies amounting to
Chubu Nippon jumped to 700,-
ed for newspaper publishing. Provin-
some 1,700 prior to the outbreak of
000, Hokkaido Shimbun, 600,000,
cial governors were notified of this
the Sino-Japanese War dropped to 55
the Nishi Nippon, 440,000, the

=== Page 96 === (confidence 1.00)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
Godo and the Chugoku, approxi-
reason was that not only the transpor-
of official controls but also the news
mately 200,000.
tation of newsprint was disrupted in
paper regulations existing since the
The Osaka Asahi and the Osaka
the face of the priority given military
Meiji era were abolished. Simultane
Mainichi publishers rechristened all
neccssitics but also because of a vir-
ously, the regulations concerning the
their papers published in Tokyo, Osaka,
tua! blockade on land and on sea by
forced 'merger of newspapers were re-
and nothern Kyushu as the Asahi
aerial bombings by American war-
moved and the Domei News Agency
Shimbun and the Mainichi Shimbun,
planes.
which had lost the basis for the
respectively.
With the intensification of aerial
national news service was disbanded to
Meanwhile, the war against the
warfare over Japan, the number of
clear the way for the organization of
United States and Great Britain gave
newspaper offices destroyed by airraids
the Kyodo News Service, a juridical
an indication that it might fizzle out;
notably increased. Consequently, by
person, as cooperative organ for the
American armed forces already began
the early part of August, 29 of the 56
newspapers and the radio broadcasting
to bombard Japan proper from nearby
newspaper publishing 'companies then
corporation in the country.
waters. The Government took this
in operation were reduced to ashes and
The Information Burean which had
opportunity to bolster controls on the
a majority of the rest found it either
played an important role in superveris-
press, disbanded the Association of
impossible to continue publication or
:ng the press since the latter part of
Newspapers and empowered the In-
necessary to suspend for a while. This
the Sino-Japanese conflict eliminated
formation Bureau to enforce supervi-
deplorable situation virtually invalidat-
its control functions and developed
sion over the newspapers, and estab-
ed the agreement of mutual assistance
into a cultural promotional organ but
lished the Japan Corporation of News-
among the daily newspapers, by which
went out of existence pursuant to the
papers (Nippon Shimbun Kosha) to
non-stricken newspapers were to re-
administrative adjustment plan after
handle newsprint allocation and coope-
place war-damaged journals in neigh-
February 1946.
rative distribution of the newspapers.
boring prefectures. The Government
With the establishment of the In-
To provide against the enemy's
immediately took steps to tackle this
formation and Education Section by
attack on the mainland, the Informa-
situation but the war ended before it
tion Bureau decided to take emergency
had any tangible effects.
the G.H.Q. in October, 1945, the
Japanese press has come under the
measures. The first step was to force
jurisdiction of the Press and Publica-
national newspapers to surrender their
SECTION 2
lion Division of the Information and
subscribers to the newspapers operat-
The Press Immediately After
Education Section. All bureau and
ing in their districts. This measurc
the War's End
section chiefs have been enthusiastic
would make it possible for newspaper
about the development of the Japanese
readers in any locality to subscribe to
1. The Press Policy of the G.H.Q.
press and did not spare efforts to give
their local newspapers if and when the
With the war's end, the suicided
direction with regard to "the freedom
mainland was split as a result of the
structure of the country suddenly took
and responsibility of the press," "dis-
landing of Allied armed forces. In an
on a peaceful and normal aspect. In
tinction between news and editorials,"
attempt to make this policy effective
newspaper circles, efforts were cen-
and "memos for newspaper reporters."
and workable, the authorities made
tered on the renovation of organization
On October 9, copy censorship was
arrangements for national newspapers
and personnel as well as on a shift in
initiated in the case of five newsapers
in Tokyo and Osaka to provide a por-
editorial policy. What worried news-
in Tokyo, but it was limited to news
tion of their staffs for local newspapers
papermen most was the impending
of the Allied powers and the Occupa-
and improve the latter's qualities. Not
GHQ press policy. But the Japanese
tion forces.
only that, the Government paved the
newspaper regulations issued by the
way for publication of a substitute
G.H.Q. on September 15, 1945, set forth
What should be especially mention-
paper when the newspaper office in a
extremely reasonable provisions, stress-
ed here was the fact that the SCAP
prefecture was destroyed in war opera-
ing the importance of accurate and fac-
called on the Japanese newspapers to
tions, thereby keeping one newspaper
tual reporting, banning only the type
adopt a code of press ethics and
always circulating there despite any
of news mimical to the maintenance
organize the Japan editors' and pub-
way damage.
of public order, criticisms running
lishers' association to implement the
This emergency measure went into
counter to the interest of the Allied
newly-formed principles of journalism.
effect in April, 1945. Simultaneously,
powers, and writing giving rise to dis-
More than that, the SCAP made a
the publication of the tabloids, war-
truct in and anti-pathy toward the
recommendation for the establishment
time news sheets and "rising genera-
Occupation forces. Only two com-
of journalist courses in colleges and
tion" journals issued by the Mainichi
panies infringed,on the regulations and
universities. The spirit underlyng the
and four other publishers and designed
duly punished; the Domei News
code of ethics finds expression in free-
for the consumption of munitions
Agency was ordered to suspend ser-
dom, responsibility, justice, and inte-
workers and the school children was
vice for 19 hours and the Asahi for
grity; at the outset, the code empha-
ordered suspended and all special
two days.
sizes that it has been adopted as a
newspapers petered out to make room
Subsequently, the G.H.Q. issued
guiding spirit in the maintenance of
for ordinary daily journals of two
directives or memoranda in Septem-
a high ethical level and the profes-
pages; these tabolids had been permit-
ber, 1945, but they were designed to
sional dignity for the Japanese news-
ted to remain in circulation even after
realize "the independence of the press
papers which have been entrusted with
an official order issued in 1944 which
from the Government" and "the aboli-
the important task of democratizing
banned the publication of evening
tion of restrictive regulations" with the
Japan.
newspapers as well as the subscription
ultimate objective of reconstructing
Allocation of newsprint, on the
of more than one daily by the read-
the press on the basis of democracy
other hand, was divorced from thei
ing public.
and contributing toward the democra-
Association of Newspapers in accord-
This official action resulted in bring-
tization of the country as a whole.
ance to a G.H.Q. directive to be
ing about strange phenomena in the
With the promulgation of the above-
handled by a committee newly select-
wartime, material-short country, name-
mentioned directives, not only all con-
ed; thus the way of a democratic press
ly, considerable accumulation of news-
trol measures concerning newspapers
was cleared with the removal of all
print in paper producing sections. The
and communications issued in the era
official controls.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
18
THE POST-WAR PRESS
Responsibility for the War and
personnel transactions. They present-
pediment to the clarification of the wi
Democratization of Newspaper
ed to President Murayama the follow-
responsibility. The Yomiuri too w
Offices
ing resolution which they had adopt-
no exception to the general rule
Parallel with the G.H.Q. guidance in
ed unanimously demanding:
democratization; its employes, like 
the direction of a democratic press,
1. The all executives, president,
Asahi's, were especially active in th
positive democratization efforts were
chairman of the board of directors, and
field of endeavor and greatly stimula
made by the Japanese newspapers from
chiefs of bureaus and officers holding
ed the Mainichi staff to continue thei
within their offices. Let us trace the
similar or higher positions resign en
fight until their objective was achieved
movement from the beginning.
bloc and that the Murayamas and the
On October 30 they held a rally of th
While all newspaper men who are
Uenos withdraw from the management
editorial department, like the Asah
sensitive to shifts of the times were
as an attempt to clarify where the
where they adopted a resolution de-
quick in changing their frame of mind
war responsibility lay.
manding all the directors to "take
following the war's end, the Mainichi
2. That an independent and self-
proper action pursuant to the best of
staff outvied all others in translating
their new mood into action. On
governing organ of employes be estab-
their judgement" in an effort not only
August 28, only 13 days after the sur-
lished to erect a democratic structure
to clarify where the war responsibility
render, the Mainichi announced the
in the office and that its representatives
lay but to establish firmly a new order
resignation en bloc of the editorial
be permitted to participate in the
for reconstruction of the Mainichi.
executives, such as President Oku-
formulation of policies concerning im-
Simultaneously, the rally resolved that
mura, Chief of the Editorial Depart-
portant organizational and management
all the staff members, bureau chiefs
ment Takada, Editors-in-Chief Shimo-
affairs.
down, would decline to maintain their
da and Abe and Exccutive Editor
In response to this resolution, how-
posts so that they might be able to
Uehara, to be followed by a drastic
ever, Murayama withdrew himself
reflect on their past and start over
reshuffle of the editorial personnel by
alone but ignored the rest of the de-
again.
new executives.
mands involved therein. The employes,
As in the case of the Asahi, President
 Hard on the heels of the Mainichi
therefore, held a rally, adopted another
Takaishi too withdrew himself, leaving
renovation, the Domei News Agency
resolution which reaffirmed the above-
three directors to take care of the
implented an overall shift in organiza-
mentioned demands and announced it
remaining business. Representatives of
tion and personnel with the retirement
in their paper under the date of October
the three main offices got together with
of all wartime executives. Newspapers
20. The announcement made it clear
the three directors and decided on the
which kept their wartime organization
that the employes demanded that the
election of directors by the employes,
and staff intact rapidly resorted to a
policy governing newspaper publishing
but the employes of the Tokyo main
shift in editorial policics and persist-
be left secure in their hands and that
office adopted a resolution rejecting the
ently demanded military, bureacuratic,
they would lay the foundation for
plan for re-election of the directors
and financial circles to take responsi-
organizing a union of daily newspaper
then in office. Inasmuch as the com-
bility for the war in consonance with
workers. Thus the Asahi issue left no
mittee appointed by representatives of
the democratization efforts by the
room for a compromise.
the thrce main offices indicated its
G.H.Q.
At this juneture, Taketora Ogata who
intention to abide with the plan adopt-
As far as the people in general were
had retired from the Asahi 'to become
ed by the Tokyo main office employes,
concerned, however, there was some-
director-general of the Information
the three directors duly withdrew,
thing incomprehensible about this
Bureau, was called in as a mediator.
clearing the way for a special general
democratization movement; they could
He brought the dispute to a successful
meeting of the stock-holders to be held
not approve of the irresponsible and
conclusion by deciding that all the
on November 26 to'elect entirely new
indiscret attitude taken by those who
directors but three who would remain
directors. Thus the pending issue was
claimed they had been veering toward
on their job temporarily to deliberate
settled.
democracy. To put it bluntly, the peo-
on the method of electing the board of
A similar trouble arose in the
ple at large failed to see that they
new directors as well as to dispose of
Yomiuri office. There had been a hue
recognized the responsibility that was
unsettled business would resign and
and cry since wartime against Vice-
theirs and or crrors that they had
that the capital investments of the
President Takahashi and Chief of the
committed. This feeling was shared
Murayamas and Uenos as publishers
Editorial Department Nakamitsu who
by leg-work reporters and the work-
would be respected.  Key figures in the
were regarded as some sort of slave
ing executives who not only believed
editorial and business departments
drivers. This problem was taken up
that the most burning issue confront-
during the war went down with the
by "the Democracy Study Club," a
ing press circles was the building up
two families. This settlement was made
group of the cditorial department, after
of a democratic structure in their
on October 24, but the three remaining
the war's end. This group headed by
offices by making it clear where the
directors too faded from the picture
Tomin Suzuki, an editorial writer, held
war responsibilities lay and but also
in April, 1946, when an election of new
a meeting of like-minded staff members
keenly felt that the attempt was re-
directors was held, as they had com-
and adopted a resolution calling for
tarted by'feudalistic influence within
pleted all business that required their
public discussion and correction of un-
their offices.
attention. The power over the Asahi
democratic organizations in newspaper
At this time, President Murayama of
which had been held by the Murayama
circles, improvement of the living con-
the Asahi formulated a plan for a
and Ueno families was handed over to
ditions of the employes, and establish-
reshuffle of wartime
 executive to
the directors dircctly clected by the
ment of a self-governing employes'
establish a new order. Executives of
employes.
union designed to achieve these ends.
the main office in Tokyo, however,
The Mainichi had established a new
They decided to submit this resolution
were not allowed to take part in fram-
order, but it was not an expression of
to the inaugural general meeting of the
ing the plan but forced to withdraw
the general will of the employes.
Yomiuri to be held on October 24, 1946,
in the name of war responsibilities.
Especially the assumption of presideney
and approached President Shoriki about
The staff of the Asahi which generally
by Shingoro Takahashi succceding
was considered consisting of liberals
President Okumura brought a serious
this matter. But as Shoriki who sensed
did not succumb to such feudalistic
protest from the cmployes as an im-
what was behind this move rejected
their plan, the committee convened a

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
19
general meeting of the employes on
be headed by Tsunego Baba as presi-
panies for fear that they might be
October 26, adopted a resolution "de-
dent with Mitsumasa Kobayashi as-
purged sooner or later, but there were
manding the president, the vice-presi-
sisting him as direetor as recommended
also many who reportedly resigned
dent, all the directors, and all the bu-
by Shoriki.
from their posts early because they
reau chiefs to retire immediately to
3. A management council shall be
would not given retirement allowances
clarify where the, war responsibility
organized by the president and re-
if they stayed on their jobs until the
lay," and submitted it to Shoriki.
prose ntatives of the employes to tackle
purge direetive was issued against
Simultaneously, the Democracy Study
important editorial and business mat-
them. At any rate, the purge direc-
Club preparatory committee was trans-
ters.
tive affected 44 of the 56 publishers or
formed into a dispute committee. Pre-
4. Ail dismissals resulting from
newspaper representatives throughout
sident Shoriki, on the other hand. took
labor disputes shall be reinstated.
the country.
a counter-measure and fired Suzuki
Inasmuch as Shoriki's shares amount.
and four others as agitators of the
ed to 45 per cent of the total as
3. The Communist Issue
group. Consequently the dispute ex-
indicated in Item 1, he now has 31.5
With the development of democrati-
ploded.
per cent. Baba who was recommended
ation in newspaper offices, the issue of
Determined to accomplish their ends,
to presideney by Shoriki, named Suzuki
communism came to the fore, and prob-
the employes organized their union on
as chief of the editorial department.
lems involving infringement on edi-
October 25, held a rally designed to
Thus the dispute was brotght to an
torial rights also cropped up. But let
spur their fight against Sheriki with
end.
us explain the Communist issue first.
party, published debunking news of
the backing of the Social Demoeratie
Thedemocratization
initiated by the three influential papers
movement
pute was settled by a compromise plan
As has been stated, the Yomiuri dis-
offered by Shoriki, Tsunego Baba was
Shoriki in the Yomitri after November
in Tokyo rapidly spread to important
4 and thus endeavored to propel their
drive advantageously to themselves
journals in provinces. By the time the
Yomiuri settled its dispute, the Kobe
chief of the editorial department. In
appointed president and Tomin Suzuki
through mobilization of every possible
Shimbun. the Chubu Nippon, the Nishi
no time, however, there arose a trou-
means. Shoriki, on the other hand,
Nippon, the Kyoto Shimbun, and the
blesome issue of not reporting the news
tried to settle the trouble by legal
Hiokkaido Shimbun had succeeded in
orrectly in the editing of the Yomiuri.
Warned by the G.H.Q. against not re-
procedures; he brought a suit against
Suzuki and others to the Tokyo pro-
bloc and paved the way for democrati-
foreing all the directors to resign en
porting the news correctly, President
curators office on charges of illegafly
occupying the office building and ob-
zation in their offices one after another.
The rapid development of democratiza-
Baba immediately called upon Suzuki
and five other executives to change
strueting business transactions. Or ne
tion movements in newspaper cireles
posts, but his proposal was rejected by
offered a compromise plan preposing
was precipitated by popular demands
the latter. In this conjunction, Baba
that he himself would remain as advisor
for clarification of war responsibilities,
tendered his letter of resignation to the
although all the directers would retire.
but it was not the publishers and their
board of directors and informed the
But as this project was turnsd down
directors alone who instigated the peo-
G.H.Q. Press Unit of his decision, tak-
by the cmployes. Shoriki finally de cided
ple to war. It was a known fact that
ing respensibility for the trouble. But
to take the iesue to the labor dispute
youthful reporters covering outside also
his resignation was not accepted; he
mediation cormmittee for a settlement.
was instead encouraged to remain on
had to share the responsibilities, but
his jon. For this reason, Baba with-
The union which got wind of She-
for all that they rather casily were
drew his resignation and once ágain
riki's decision brought the dispute to
able to have their exeeutives surrender
prevailed on Suzuki and five others to
the Mayor of Totyo for mediation
the management of their newspapers in
quit. But since he refused to yield,
ahead of the publisher. The union.
their favor. Why? The reason appear-
Baba dismissed him and appointed his
however, objected to members of the
ed simple. There had been rumors
successor. Following this incident, the
mediation committee and demanded
afloat immediately after the war's end
Yomiuri staff was split into two con-
re-election of the members. Con-
that "newspaper publishers may be
fiicting factions, one supporting Baba
sequently, Katsumi Kikunami, Kyuichi
arrested by the Occupation forces as
and the other backing Suzuki. This
Tokuda, and Mosaburo Suzuki were
war crimes suspects.", That the time-
split led the Baba faction to initiate a
selected for the committee representing
honored publishers of the Asahi, the
drive soliciting signatures of those who
the union, of these appointiments. the
Murayama and Ueno families, with-
gave "absolute support" for the pres-
selection of Tokuda. Communist leader.
.drew unexpectedly casily and that such
ident. As a result of this successful
was a surprise to the public.
outstanding figures in journalistic cir-
drive, the Suzuki group finally with-
. The day after the appointment of the
cles as Furuno, managing director of
drew from the Yomiuri and Baba or-
committee members, the Yoniuri re-
the Domei News Ageney, Ota, assistant
dered the transfer of 16 Suzuki back-
ported that Publisher Shoriki had been
publisher of the Hochi, Tokutomi,
ers to provincial offices.
detained in Sugamo prison as a war
president of the Journalistic National
The all-Japan Press and Radio Work-
crime suspect. Even when top ex-
Service Association, Shoriki, publisher
ers Union, however, made an appeal to
eeutives of the leading papers faded
of the Yomiuri, were arrested on
the Central Labor Relations Board in
out of the public scene, one after
charges of war crimes suspects un-
protest against the dismissal of Suzuki
another, Shoriki continued to fight his
doubtedly moved other publishers to
and five others and the transfer of 16
employes. But now that things had
weaken their stands toward their em-
employes to provincial offices by Pres-
changed, he probably sensed the futil-
ployes.
ident Baba which the union regarded
ity of sticking to his guns any longer,
The G.H.Q. direetive for screening
as "unfair" to organized labor. In the
and decided to compromise with the
publie office holders issued on January
meantime, the committee for recon-
union with the following conditions:
4, 1946, ordered the purge of all news-
structing the Yomiuri workers union
1. Shoriki will resign from the
paper executives, such as publishers
took up the issue of the dismissal and
presidency and relinguish more than
and representatives, of their editorial
the transfer. Although opinions were
30 per cent of his shares.
departments. At this juneture, a num-
split at the committee meeting, 350 em-
2. The Yomiuri publishing company
ber of provincial newspaper publishers
ployes backing the Suzuki faction de-
shall be turned into a corporation to
voluntarily withdrew from their com-manded Baba to retract his announce-

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
20
THE POST-WAR PRESS
ment concerning the dismissal and the
of his extreme leftist leaning, he had
plained, the Hokkaido Shimbun stoo
transfer. As the deadline for Baba's
been relegated to a lesser position
at a crossroads of existence and extin
reply came, the union entered into a
during the war, but with the war's
tion according to Major Imboden. 
strike, thereby suspending the publica-
end, he made his comeback in office
top of it, the publisher made an addi
tion of the Yomiuri.
politics. Taking advantage of a feud
tional announcement of dismissal an
The Baba group consisting of 1380
then raging among the directors of the
suspension from duty of those wh
employes, on the other hand, held a
newspapers as well as of the tendency
were regarded as responsible for hav
rally and adopted a resolution calling
for democratization, Shintani chose to
ing turned the newspaper into
for the dismissal of 40 persons who
be a member of the executive commit-
mouthpiece of the Communist party
were responsible for the strike; the
tec of the newly-organized union and
he made it clear that his first punitive
management subsequently fired 31 of
led it into the Hokkaido Federation of
action was not satisfactory to the
the 40 and called upon the other em-
Labor Unions which was decidedly
authorities concerned. In addition to
Communistic. Subsequently, contact
cight already affected, therefore, 17
ployes to resume publication of the
paper. The Baba backers foreibly took
with Communist members had been
were fired and 28 went on a list of
over the printing shop by chasing the
mainiained and the cellular tissue of
suspension from duty.
strikers out into the nearby Kanto
the Communist party was openly and
In fact, Major Imboden who had
power supply company building where
overtly expanded. Moderate staff
scrutinized the Hokkaido Shimbun con-
they continued their dispute.
members of the Hokkaido expressed
tended that although the daily had
misgivings over the future, but their
been receiving large quantities of
With regard to the appeal made by
demands were turned down by the
newsprint as a regular daily newspaper,
the All-Japan Press and Radio Workers
extremists as "reactionary." In the
it would be given rations accorded to
Union, the Central Labor Relations
meantime, the number of the extremists
mouthpicces of some organizations
Board submitted a mediation plan to
increased to more than 120 who de-
it intended to circulate as an organ of
both labor and management on August
manded the resignation en bloc of all
the Communist party.
3 and cnded its mediation effort. The
plan, however, was not acceptable to
the directors to make room for the par-
President Abe, therefore, dismissed
either management or labor. Then the
ticipation of the union in the manage-
Directors Miyake and Murakami in an
union reaffirming its support for the
ment as well as for a renovation of
attempt to clean up undesirable ele-
Yomiuri strikers decided on September
organizations of a feudalistic nature on
ments in the office; he furthermore
19, 1946, to go on a sympathy strike
February 16, 1946. As President Taki-
readjusted a portion of the organiza-
moto and all the other directors yielded
tion, made a reshuffle in personnel and
in an attempt to help realize the ob-
jectives of the disputing Yomiuri
to the union's demand and retired
employed a number of fresh men from
workers. In some circles, however,
casily, the union initiated controls over
outside. The union regarded these
the management. Shintani, on the
steps as inevitable, but the dismissed
rumors had it that the strike was in-
other hand. assumed the responsibility
organized a disputing group and ap-
stigated by the National Congress of
Industrial Unions which sought to
of the editorial—department and con-
pealed to the Hokkaido Local Labor
solidated unity in the office as a whole.
Relations Board for arbitration in the
realize in this dispute their political
Simultancously, the union issued a
dispute. More than that, the group
aims which they had failed in the
declaration of disputes stressing not
held a series of debunking rallies in
strike of the Government railways
only its supervision over the manage-
various places of Hokkaido and tried
workers union. As a result, the num-
ment but also its rejection of the re-
to pull strings behind the office of the
ber of newspapers that went on a
clection of the directors. Consequently,
newspaper to which they had belong-
general strike pursuant to the direc-
none of the directors except Abe and
ed. The employes, however, objected
tive issued by the central executive
Nakano who assumed their posts after
to the dispute and the board too pro-
committee of the All-Japan Press and
the war's end was re-elected at the
posed to the disputing group a plan
Radio Workers union on October 15
special meeting of the stockholders. At
for reaching an amicable settlement by
amounted to only 12. More than that,
the employes rally held at this time,
the parties concerned.
cight newspapers continued the strike
representatives of the Japan Com-
In the fall of 1947 just about the
only one day, two newspapers, two
munist party, the Social Democratic
time the Communist issues of the Hok-
days, one newspaper, three days with
party, and the Hokkaido Federation of
kaido Shimbun and the Yomiuri were
the Tokyo Mimpo disputing longest,
Labor Unions delivered agitaing
to be settled, reports circulated that
five days. The general strike was a
speeches. Thus the Hokkaido Shim-
the Nishi Nippon Shimbun had been
failure. The striking union prevailed
bun virtually controlled by the Com-
making a swing toward the left. The
on the management to withdraw its
munists, transformed itself into a
reports were backed up by the fact that
announcement of all dismissals, recog-
mouthpiece of the Communist party.
no newspaper larger than this daily
nized the voluntary retirement of six
The board of directors, however, had
joined the general strike of October,
executives and 31 other employes, and
been preoccupied with a feud among
1945. Chief of the Editorial Depart-
had the management reinstate other
themselves and unable to look after
ment Kito and Assistant Chief Hoshino
fired employes in their former posts.
the editorial policy of their paper.
resigned from their posts taking res-
Thus the four-month-long dispute in
This Bolshevization tendency brou-
ponsibilities for such rumours, chiefly
the Yomiuri was brought to an end.
ght angry protests from subseribers
because, it was asserted, they had
A second case of Bolishevization in
who oraganized a "We Won't Take
ingored the Nugent statement indicat-
newspaper circles arose in the Hok-
Hokkaido Shimbun." As a result, the
ing the course to be taken by the
kaido Shimbun office. Consonant with
circulation decreased by 20,000. Not
Japanese press.
the prevailing tendency, President
only that, letters protesting against the
This issue was solved with the re-
Azuma withdrew from the manage-
newspaper's editorial policy flowed into
signation of these editorial chiefs, but
ment of the paper on October 5, 1945,
the G.H.Q. and the Military Govern-
it began to smoulder when the manage-
and the employes union was organized
ment on the spot.
ment offered only Y3,000,000 to the
by November. The leader of the union
On July 20, 1946, President Abe sud
cmployes for their demand of ¥7,500,-
was Researeh Department Chief Shin-
denly announced the relief of Shintani
000 as special cost-of-living allowances
tani who had been regarded as a Com-
and seven other staff members from
in November, 1947. In Dedember, the
munist since· pre-war days. Because
duty of shcer necessity, for he ex-
employes union embarked on a dis-

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
pute; on December 15, it decided to
given by former President Murayama
Allocations of Newsprint, it is best to
resort to sabtoge tactics at a workshop
to the Asahi. The warning revealed
explain their development in relation
rally. The members were not only
that since the Aashi had brought pub-
with the activities of the committee.
prohibited from talking with the pre-
lic censure for its extreme leftist ten-
This agency, first organized in the
sident, the chief and vice-chief of the
dency and thereby impaired its tradi-
Information Bureau by the Govern-
editorial department and other edi-
tion, its employes union should sever
ment toward the end of 1945 pursuant
torial executives but also ordered
itself from the All-Japan Press and
to the G.H.Q. memorandum, was trans-
minimize the number and contents of
Radio Workers Union and the National
ferred to the Ministry of Commerce
daily editions. Consequently, during
Congress of Industrial Unions and
and Industry following tħe abolition
the disputing week, they put out a
mantain its editorial policies strictly
of the Information Bureau. At this
extremely poor type of daily sheet
neutral and free from the influence of
time, the committee members were
without news photos and big head-
the labor unions. It added that all
re-elected and the allocation of news-
lines. More than that, they published
the Communists and totalitarians had
print was implemented for the period
only one edition a day. The manage-
to be expelled from the Asahi imme-
ending in November, 1946. The Gov-
ment suspended negotiations with the
diately. In a verbal statement related
crnment then contemplated a plan for
union on December 17 on the ground
with this warning, Murayama bluntly
bringing the committee directly under
the latter implemented an important
asserted that a majority of the em-
the jurisdiction of the Cabinet to be
change in the publication of daily
ples had been under the influence of
supervised by a State Minister spe-
editions, interfered gravely in the
a group of 12 Communists headed by
cially appointed for the task. The
editing of the news, impeded the exer-
KatsumiKikunami.
committee bluntly objected to this pro-
cise of the editorial rights by resort-
A few days later, the Asahi
ject on the ground that such official
ing to silence tactics, and obstructed
published verbal statements of the
action would mevitably mean the re-
the planning of the New Year edition.
directors which frankly admitted that
turn of the Information Bureau days
On December 21, the union decided
the paper was subjected to public
for the newsprint rationing organ and
to accept the management's offer of
criticism at the time of the now famous
that newsprint rationing would be
Y3,000,000 as cost-of-living allowances.
strike and revealed that the with-
made a tool to promote the interests
Some members, however, raised pro-
drawal of the union from the、 All-
of party influence and that the plan
tests at their rally held on December
Japan Press and Radio Workers Union
was fraught with danger of curbing
27- to union leaders against their poor
and the National Congress of Indus-
the freedom of the press.
dispute tactics which gave the manage-
trial Unions was contemplated. No
The chairman and two members of
ment excuses that the union infringed
further development ensued subse-
the committee called on the Prime
upon the editorial and managerial
quently, but Kikunami retired from
Minister and the Commerce-Industry
rights during the dispute. As a result,
the Asahi for some other reasons.
Minister and presented their case. be-
members of the strike committee and
fore the authorities. Hard on the
union officers resigned. The manage-
4. Establishment of the Editorial
heels of their vist, the managing direc-
ment, on the other hand, dismissed
Rights
tor of the Japan Newspaper Publishers'
five staff members including the chair-
and Editors' Association and directors
man and vice-chairman of the union
Extreme democratization of the press
of the Asahi and the Mainichi also
may have resulted in coloring the news
executive committee on December 30,
called on the Prime Minister and ex-
red. At any rate, newspapers like the
on the ground that the union violated
pressed their objection to the contem-
Yomiuri and·the Nishi Nippon have
the above-mentioned two rights that
plated plan. Ignoring these protests,
created the issue of infringement on
belonged to the management. The
however, the Cabinet formed by the
the editorial rights. The G.H.Q.
management made a statement that
Liberal party translated its original
studied this problem and announced
these dismissals were enforeed on the
plan into reality, placed the newsprint
that the editorial rights lie with the
strength of Major Imboden's views ex-
allocation committee under its direct
management inasmuch it is held res-
pressed at the third of a series of the
control, and appointed a new commit-
ponsible for the editing of its paper.
Journalism Lectures held in Kyoto on
tee.
After a series of studies on this parti-
October 27, 1947, as well as the Nugent
As had been expected, the committee
cular subject, the Japan Newspaper,
statement but the five dismissed and
secretariat mostly consisted of offi-
Publishers' and Editors' Association
their union headquarters appealed to
cials, bureau chief down to clerks, hail-
issued a public statement in the name
the Fukuoka Local Labor Relations
ing from Nagano prefecture to which
of its board of directors on March 10,
Board for aspitration for the reason
State Minister Uehara, responsible
1948, that it concurred with the G.H.G.
that they had entertained no intention
authority, belonged. The first alloca-
views on this issue. It is understood,
whatsoever to interfere with the edi-
tion of newsprint was severely criti-
torial rights as union members. What
however, that measures for the pro-
cized as reflecting the wishes of the
the management said was Major
tection of the freedom of the press are
State Minister; the authorities found
Imboden's views was in substance as
under study by the association.
it necessary to retract its announce-
follows:
ment of the allocation. Subsequently,
5. Committee on Allocation of News-
The employes who have tried to
the committee held a number of meet-
make the management to follow their
print and Newly-Risen Newspapers
ings, but failed to decide on any new
opinion, taking advantage of their
As has been discussed, the daily
rationing of newsprint partly because
posts, in making decisions concerning
newspapers already in existence have
of a dearth of materials. The com-
editorial policies, may be subjected to
undergone democratization after a
mittee, therefore, existed in name only;
punitive action, if necessary, or dis-
series of bitter experiences since the
newsprint allocation was carried out
missed without consent or approval of
war's end. It is pertinent to mention
by the committee during the first and
the union to which they belong.
in this conjunction that the G.H.Q.
second periods.
At the time of the February—1
direc ve for liberation of the press has
When the committee first was
general strike, the Tokyo Asahi too
cleared the way for publication of new
organized, the newly-established news-
was said tainted with extreme leftist
journals since the surrender. Since
papers which applied for allocation of
color. This was made clear when the
they came into being following the
newsprint numbered approximately 10.
Nihon Keizai published the warning
establishment of the Committee on
Of them, the largest request for paper

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
22
THE POST-WAR PRESS
rationing was presenied by the Jiji
neither the results of the request for
ganized editorial set-up.
Shimpo which had just made its come-
the use of the survey carried out were
In the light of a few months' experi
back; it apphed for rationing of nes.
made known to the public.
ence, the committee made a probe into
sprint enough to make up 1,200.000
The second committee made a probe
the personalities of the investors, the
copies although only the Asahi. the
into the newsprint ration recipients,
prospect for printing facilities, the edi
Mainichi and the Yomiuri. were three
issued warnings to those whose daily
torial personnel of each newspaper and
journals in Tokyo. sufflieiently equipp d
sheets made a poor showing, and cut
came to the conclusion that applications
to turn out such a large nomber of
or cancelled newsprint allocations for
for new newsprint allocations in local
daily shects. Other n' wepamrer: d'd
the papers which failed to heed such
ities where many newly-established
not makte such a large application. bat
Warnings. The warnings were issued
newspapers are in circulation should 
it was generally taken ter er nted thin
to the papers which were marked by
rejected. The committee intended t
they filed in appheaton for . phn
Valg rism, incompeteney and sensa-
make allocations to applicants planning
necessary. Consequently. th  first com-
ionnlism as well as to daily sheets
to publish grammar sehool journals
mittee decided to alloente ondy s0 p r
which tended to support some parti-
subsequent to its investigations, but the
cent of the amounts appted a. Fb
cular political parties. The Jiji Shimpo
plan did not materialize as the second
sequenidy es the Jim Shum t to
which was regarded as pro-Liberal and
committee was disbanded prematurely.
consume half the quantity t eived.
reactionary protested to the commit-
The second committee which sought
namely, 600,000 copes its qrota was
tee and submitted its case to the com-
to comiplete such investigations made
slashed to 250,000 in the teht of the
petent authorities. There were a few
it a rule to accept appeals up to three
allocation tivèn to the Nition Keizai
additienal journals which were warn-
times. Inasmuch as the trust and con-
which received thee nirimum ratien of
ed. but sinee they changed their tone
cern were absolutely taboo, the com-
270,000 copies in Tokyo. Accordingly.
in a weck or two, only two or three
mittee heard detailed reports of those
of them were cut off their newsprint
the quota for the Tokyo Times was cut
applicants who were suspected of hav-
frdm 300.000 to 150 00. B m: E-
allocation. The committee, on the
ing mother papers. But a scrutiny
sai Shieabun whech op mates n Osak
other hand, inereased rations for ihose
shows that a large number of newly-
was given the cerota of 400,000 copies.
papers which distinguished themselves
established papers are the sister jour-
half its appheotion o s00 000: it haes
by escellent editing, such as the Shin
nals of some long-existing dailies al-
Osaka, on evening journal, which was
been aceord d so cial redmnt l
though they give an appearance of be-
alone. althet h n has neer il: d dir
leuded as a model two-page daily with
ing under the independent manage-
reports ceneermng es constemot on of
reference to both contents and make-
iments. In many cases, their editorial
nation d nowsprin'. becats it: ptb-
up. Such promotional attempts were
staffs are the offshoots of those of in-
lisher is a nsdtional o a hert te ntry.
not made by the committee more than
fluential papers or they are under the
As the lloe tion of newsprint for
once because of its short span of life.
management made up by investments
newly-established newspapers was
The third cemmittee suspended the
of stockholders of influential papers.
decided. there cropped up plrcs for
allecetion of newsprint to the news-
While it is their intention to get inde-
new publications ene  fter nother in
papers which had blackmarketed ra-
pendent after some period of tutelage
both Tokyo ond provinces. Te. : sult
ioned newsprint, but never gave
and assistance from mother newspapers
was that the newsprint bretd n grew
awords to excellent papers for their
with reference to printing, editing and
werse untit the masmum ratien drop-
distinquished work. The papers which
capital investments, it is often the case
ped to 100,0350 copics in Morch. 1946;
reccived increased newsprint rations.
that they never get on their own feet
such liberel allocatio: as 250,000 copies
together with the Shin 'Osaka, were
because of difficulties in management.
for the Jiji Shimpo be com absoditely
as follows:
There are some papers which have be-
impossible. It w bou this time
15 per cent inerease: Shin Osaka
come collaterals of the well-established
that the D.  chi Shitabam mad the Su:
and Osaka Nichi Nichi.
dailies on account of debts accruing
received their fit  llecntion. In
10 per cent increase: Evening Nii-
from printing expenses. Managements
September, the Sekai Nippo was given
gata. Kobe Yukan, Hokuriku Yu-
attribute these failures to a shortage of
an exceptiorel llocton of 70.000 cnd
kan. Yukan Hiroshima.
newsprint which is really an important
in October the Shin Hochi wes offored
It was a coineidence that all awarded
factor, but the real cause lies in the
the maximum adlocctien ot 40.000
newspapers were evening dailies. Other
management itself.
copies in Tol:yo.
journals which were not worthy of
At any rate, however, ties between
Since it was not the in: niioo of the
awards but which had been marked by
these papers should not be approved;
committee to make sueh small lioc-
soundness since the allocation began
they need to be corrected sooner or
tions, it cop emple ed a phan for allo-
cating surplus paper for newsprint-
despite small rations were given a
later.
short dailies by nét enly cdline upon
raise in the quota. They ineluded the
The number of newly-established
the Comm ree-Indusiry Minister to
following: the Tokyo Times, the Nik-
newspapers inereased to 126, as of No-
increese nevsprint oumput end imperts
kan Sports, the Yukan Kyoto, the Sun,
vember, 1946, when the last newsprint
the Nanshin Nichi Nichi, the Kyoto
allocation was made, and they doubled
but adso a justnent ot the aliocation
Miyake, and the Kirisuto Shimbun.
in prefectures on an average. But the
through a nttion wide survey of sub-
seribers as to what newspapets thea in
Explanations should be made in this
amount of their newsprint allocation is
cireuletion they wished to take.
cenjunetion about the standards for the
extreniely small, perhaps equal to that
Although this plae was enrered the
new newsprint allocations. When the
rationed to the Yomiuri alone.
stage of realization in the honds of the
system was initiated, there was no
It was the major task of the com-
second comr ttee, it ended in failure
yardstick to go by and all the alloca-
mittee to make allocations to newly-
since it was not b:cked up by the
tions were made on the basis of 50 per
risen newspapers: with regard to the
Government. The Government finelly
cent of the applications. But since a
well-established papers, the committee
gave approvel to thus projet at the
number of new applications flowed in
was to make adjustments subsequent
time of the tnird committee and paved
to the fourth committee, its successor
to the completion of its survey of sub-
the way fer the Jiji News Ageney to
decided to limit the allocations to those
cribers as to the type of newspapers
initiate t the request of the conmmit-
which justified their existence and
they wished to take. But as the
tee to conduct the investigation. But
which gave an indication of a well-or-
authorities did not approve the survey

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
plan for some time, the committee im-
for newsprint allocation originated in
Tokyo
plemented reducing allocations, 25 per
such journalistic centers and the com-
Hitherto-existing papers:
cent of the original quotås which had
mittee concerned allocated paper in
Asahi, Mainichi, Yomiuri, Nihon
been slashed twice since the early part
consideration of the conditions prevail-
Keizai, and Nippon Times (Eng-
of 1945. It increased rations to small
ing in pre-control days. Now takes a
lish)
provincial newspapers which staggered
glance at the distribution of daily news-
Newly-risen papers (including those
under financial difficulties because of
papers in the country.
restored):
small allocations and fixed new alloca-
Tokyo and Osaka have been the jour-
Morning:
Jiji Shimpo, Tokyo
tions for the newspapers in Nagasaki
nalistic centers of the country since pre-
Times,
Tokyo Mimpo, Sekai
prefecture which requested separate
control days, and this fact remains in-
Keizai,
Nikkon Sports, Hochi,
reducing allocations.
variable. The Asahi and the Mainichi,
Tokyo Tomin Shimbun, Seiji
But since the problem of adjusting
representative newspapers of Japan,
Shimbun, Akahata
allocations among the newspapers long
maintained their competent rival, the
Evening: Shin Yukan, Sun, Dai-
in circulation is yet to be worked out,
Yomiuri, is well located in Tokyo. In
ichi Shimbun, Yukan Miyako
the authorities may be expected to
addition, the Nihon Keizai which es-
embark on this task in the near future.
caped the liquidation axe in control
Osaka
It is held in some quarters that the
days and a number of the so-called
Hitherto-existing papers:
publication of four-page sheets once
local papers and newly-risen journals
Morning: 'Asahi, Mainichi, Sangyo
a week may be made possible because
are in circulation. Newspaper centers
Keizai, English Mainichi
of an increase in coal output.
next in importance are Nagoya and
Evening: Osaka Shimbun
Northern Kyushu as in pre-control
Newly-risen papers:
days.
Morning: Osaka Jiji, Osaka Times,
SECTION 3
Nippon Yoron Shimbun
Present Press Circles
Although the Asahi and the Mainichi
Evening: Shin Osaka and Osaka
liquidated their branch offices in Na-
Nichi Nichi
1. Distribution of the Newspapers
goya city when influential papers, re-
presentative of the province, assumed
Northern Kyushu
Preceding discussions have indicated
the course of developments which the
the role of the prefectural journals pur-
Hitherto-existing papers:
suant to the official policy, there still
Morning: Nishi Nippon Shimbun
Japanese newspapers have taken since
the days of controls and that being on
remain in circulation what may be con-
(Fukuoka), Asahi (Kokura),
the road to reconstruction, they have
sidered the sister papers of the Asahi
Mainichi (Moji)
not attained pre-war levels as yet.
and the Mainichi, together with five
Newly-risen papers:
But under the direction of the Press
other newly-risen dailies. As far as
Evening: Yukan Fukunichi (Fu-
Unit of the Civil Information and
the number is concerned, therefore, Na-
kuoka), Kyushu Times (Kokura),
Education Section of the G.H.Q., the
goya favorably compares with Osaka as
Shin Kyushu (Moji)
Japan's newspaper center. Northern
Japanese newspapermen have to come
to appreciate the way of a democratic
Kyushu with Fukuoka city as nucleus
The Tokyo Area
and Kokura and Moji cities as satellites
press in a few years after the war's
prospers as the fourth journalistic cen-
The above-mentioned list shows that
end. They are endeavoring to turn
ter of the country. In addition to re-
Tokyo is noted for a variety of news-
out daily news sheets capable of con-
presentative provincial newspapers, the
papers. The Sekai Keizai is affiliated
tributing toward the building of a
Asahi and the Mainichi maintain their
with the defunct Dempo News Agency
democratic Japan along the line of the
Western Main office which during the
(popularly called Dentsu) and its fea-
newly-established canons of journal-
war issued newspapers for consumption
ture is world news, the Nikkan Sports
ism. It is considered therefore that
in southern Japan, Manchuria, and Ko-
has the distinction of being the only
it will not be in the distant future that
rea. Besides, three evening papers cir-
sporting news daily in Japan. The
the press in Japan will regain pros-
culate in this area.
Tokyo Tomin Shimbun is a local paper
perity with the development of in-
in an extremely narrow sense of the
dustry in general. For those who want
Kyoto may be regarded as the fifth
word, the Sun is the only news photo
to understand the status quo of the
press center, but since it is within the
daily in Japan, while the Akahata is
Japanese press, therefore, the follow-
orbit of influence of the Osaka press,.
the mouthpiece' of the Communist
ing discussions are given.
there are only five, daily newspapers
party. The Tokyo Mimpo was regard-
Let us first look at the distribution
and no large provincial journals. In
ed as radical because of its rejection
other localities like Sapporo, Gifu, and
of the newspapers in the country. As
of the Emperor system immediately
Nagasaki circulate three papers, and
has been detailed in preceding sec-
after it came into existence, but it has
Morioka, Sendai, Fukushima, Nagano,
tions, a number of enterprising publish-
toned down and looks like an ordi-
Niigata, Kanazawa, Toyama, Nara,
ers attempted to start the publication
nary paper. Papers with such char-
Kobe, Okayama, Hiroshima Tokushima
of new dailies since the war's end, but
acteristics do not circulate anywhere
and Kochi, two dailies, and in many of
a majority of their plans were frustrat-
else but Tokyo: some attempted to
the middle-sized cities, one daily. Of
ed by a dearth of newsprint and print-
make good in other districts but died
these districts, Sapporo has a large
ing machinery. Perhaps not more than
a natural death in no time. For in-
paper which circulates all over the
10 per cent of them has materialized.
stance, the Yukan Kyoto which was
Hokkaido district. Sendai, Okayama
The size of the circulation of the daily
started by cultural men of leftist lean-
and Hiroshima have second-rate pro-
newspapers is approximately one-
ing changed hands in one year and
vincial papers.
sevenths of non-control days although
became a commonplace evening paper.
their distribution in the country has
The Osaka. Times in Osaka started out
2. Daily Newspapers and Their
remained almost static ever since.
as a Christian journal with editorial
Make-Up
In newspaper centers, a number of
stress on the spirit of Christianity, but
dailies from several to a dozen, are in
Distribution of long-established and
it today operates as a journal with
circulation today as in the non-control
newly-risen papers in the four largest
mere news of Christian activities. All
days chiefly because many applications
newspaper centers is shown below.
this means, however, that common-

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
24
THE POST-WAR:PRESS
place enterprisers took advantage of
become available and. additional edi-
plan for publishing an eveninge
cultural men in getting newsprint allo-
tions permitted.
did not materialize because of
cations.
In addition, the Chubu Mimpo was
ure to get newsprint allocation
. In Osaka a peculiar journal called
subsequently started as a leftist jour-
the Tosho Shimbun (Readers' Council
nal, but its reading matter is poor
The Hokkaido District
Journal) was started with the idea to
chiefly for want of independent print-
Like the four journalistic gen
publish letters to the editor in its daily
ing machinery. In the sphere of in-
Hokkaido and Nagano prefectures
sheets but it has developed into the
fluence of the Chubu Nippon have ap-
undergone a considerable change
Nippon Yoron Shimbun (Public Opin-
peared the Tokai Yukan (Gifu city)
the distribution of newspapers
ion Journal); at the beginning letters
and the Yukan Mie .(Yokkaichi), a
the war's end, previously there
to the editor appeared mere office work
sister paper of the Ise Shimbun, which
only one paper each. During the
for want of the reader's correspond-
now curb the advance of the three
the Hokkaido Shimbun circulate
ence. The Shin Osaka deserves spe-
Nagoya evening papers in this district.
the newspaper for the Hokkatd
cial mention here for its initiation of
Since Gifu city has_another daily, the
trict, but it published what
news write-up concerning the activi-
Gifu Shimbun which has made its
called sister papers under the
ties of labor unions with continuity
comeback, the sphere dominated by the
title in Asahikawa, Kushiro and H
and coherence.
Chubu Nippon has been penetrated by
date. Their subscription rate
Tokyo is not only noted for such
four morning papers. As far ,as the
high, one copy for 1.2 households.
daily newspapers with special featurcs
evening papers are concerned, the
In attempts to break the monopo
Nagoya Times meets with competition.
as have been mentioned. Almost all
of the Hokkaido Shimbun in this wid
from three rivals. It can be said there-
the trade journals and organs of in-
district and to fight its tendency
fore that the Nagoya district has been
terested groups in Japan are published
ward Communism, moderate enter
in Tokyo, although discussions thereof
saturated as far as newspapers are
prisers laid down plans for publication
are not given here since they are
concerned.
of new journals. In no time, there
mostly weeklies. To this group be-
appeared a morning paper, the Shin
long such papers as the Kogyo Shim-
The Osaka District
hokkai, in addition to the Hokkai
bun (Industrial Journal, daily, and the
Since the Asahi and the Mainichi
Times affiliated with the Hokkaido
Kotsu Shimbun (Traffic Journal),
have their strongholds in Osaka, no
Shimbun in Sapporo, the Hokkai Nichi
the Rodo Sensen (Labor Front), the
enterprising publisher has ever at-
Nichi in Asahikawa, the Hakodate
Fujin Minshu Shimbun (Women's
tempted to make a frontal clash with
Shimbun in Hakodate, and the Muro-
Democratic Journal) and the Shakai
these nationally dominant papers.
ran Mimpo in Muroran.
Shimbun, mouthpiece of the Social
Except the Osaka Jiji which. made its
The Shin Hokkai and the Hokkai
Democratic party, all weeklies. Other
comeback with eyes on its former sub-
Nichi Nichi receive a newsprint alloca
outstanding weeklies include the Noson
scribers, only a few papers with pecu-
tion of 70,000 copies, and the Hakodate
Shimbun designed for consumption in
liar characteristics, such as the Nippon
Shimbun, 60,000; the former two have
the agrarian community, the Nichibei
Yoron Shimbun, the Osaka Times, and
an agreement of cooperation with the
Weekly with many news of the Japa-
the Kokusai Shimbun intended for
Asahi and the latter with the Mainichi.
nese population in the United States,
foreign nationals came into being in
and the Kagaku Bunka Shimbun spe-
Osaka. If compared with Nagoya, the
Nagano Prefecture
cializing in scientific news.
situation in this area is extremely dull.
Although Nagano prefecture ha
As regards evening papers, the Shin
been under the influence of Tokyo
The Natoya District
Osaka and the Osaka Nichi Nichi
newspapers and the Chubu Nippon,
affiliated with the Mainichi and the
It is Nagoya that has witnessed the
Asahi, respectively, are popular, but
number of dailies which have come
publication of newly-risen newspapers
even these journals cannot grow any
into existence or made their comeback
in large numbers next to Tokyo since
larger in the face of paper shortage.
since the war's end circulate today
the war's end. The Chubu Nippon was
Of them, the Yukan Shinshu, an off-
started after the war's end by an en-
shoot of the Shinshu Mainichi, rates
terprising group of Asahi and Mainichi
The Northern Kyushu District
high as the outstanding evening paper
newspapermen who aspired to build
No newly-risen paper has ever chal-
in this district especially because of
it up to the level of the journal which
lenged the Asahi, the Mainichi, and
its refreshing contents and rich taste.
under the same title claimed a circula-
the Nishi Nippon in northern Kyushu.
Other papers include the Nanshin Nichi
tion of 800,000 during the war. Ap-
Competition has arisen among three
Nichi in Suwa, the Democratic-Liberal
parently affiliated with the Asahi are
leading evening papers in their efforts
Shinano Nichi Nichi in Ueda, the
a morning paper, the Chukyo Shimbun,
to increase circulations. Although all
Shinyo Shimbun in Matsumoto, and
and an evening paper, the Shin Tokai,
of them get newsprint allocations
the Minami Shinshu in Iida. While
whereas the Tokai Mainichi believed
amounting to 700,000 copies, they
Nagano is a big prefecture, it may be
to be relatcd with the Mainichi cir-
suffer from a paper shortage chiefly
said that it deserves to be calleda
culates for consumption in the agricul-
because of a remarkable development
cultural district because of such a
tural community. Previously, the
of northern Kyushu since the war's
number of newspapers in circulation.
Chubu Nippon started the publication
end. Backed by their mother papers,
of the evening Nagoya Times and of
the Asahi for the Kyushu Times, the
Page Make-up.
the Chubu Keizai a little later. All
Mainichi for the Shin Kyushu, 'and the
With a limited space of two pages,
these newly-risen papers which get
Nishi Nippon for the Yukan Fukunichi,
the dailies find it hard to cover ade
newsprint rations amounting to 100,-
their news coverage is rated high. In
quately news of politics, economics,
000 copies still are unable'to compete
make-up, too, they have presented
society, sports, movies and theaters as
with the Chubu Nippon, but with the
daily sheets even superior to their
well as editorial comments. Despite
backing of the Asahi and the Mainichi
counterparts in Tokyo. These are the
this space shortage, such long-forgotten
they may be able to make a frontal
only evening papers in the Kyushu
features as caricatures, comic strips,
clash with it when surplus newsprint
district; the Kumamoto Nichi Nichi's
epigrammatic comments, humorous

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
THE. POST-WAR PRESS
odds and ends have come to break into
Suzuki faction, the Yomiuri has·come
logy and make-up. While the Asahi
print. Some papers give relatively
to assume an air of composure and it
if not an extreme leftist, tends to be
large space for letters to the editor
is ideologically moderate. For this
a leftist, the Mainichi remains more
and publish articles written by well-
reason, the Yomiuri is regarded, toge-
to the right than the Asahi, although
known figures. Some outstanding
ther with the Jiji Shimpo, as, repre-
it is not an extreme rightist. As re
newspapers conduct public opinion
senting conservative liberalism in
gards news coverage, the Asahi gives
surveys to reflecting in daily sheets
Tokyo. It subscribes to foreign news
an appearance of being intellecturd
public opinion on important issues of
services, such as AP, Reuters, INS, and
and comprehensive, while the Mainichi
the day. In covering news of the
AFP.
tends to be rather entertaining concen-
world, many papers tend to subscribe
As collateral business, the Yomiuri
trating on particular topics of the day
to foreign news services other than
publishes popular magazines, the
Both subscribe to Reuter and AFP. In
those offered by the Kyodo News Ser-
Monthly Yomiuri, the Yomiuri Weekly
addition, the Asahi takes AP and the
vice.
and two other monthlies, the Shonen
Mainichi, UP service. The Asah fur-
Yomiuri, the Yomiuri Sports and the
thermore prints special mail correspon-
3. The Status Quo of the Out-
Yomiuri Political Year Book. In addi-
dence from an observer in London.
standing Papers
tion, it helps in the management of
The Asahi has more intellectual
the Hochi.
readers than the Mainichi. Their
Now let us look at the status quo
printing shops are well mechanized
of the outstanding newspapers in the
The Asahi and the Mainichi
and perhaps favorably compare with
country. Since data offered herein
those of outstanding newspapers in
were based on a survey conducted by
As has been discussed already, the
Europe and the United States; they
a certain institute during the period
Asahi and the Mainichi expanded their
are equipped with teletypes, telephoto
of 1946 to 1947, they may not be abso-
circulation onto Kansai, Chugoku and
apparatus and other communications
lutely correct but surely throw light
Shikoku districts with their main
facilities.
on the actual conditions of the press
offices in Osaka, and with profits thus
In the field of collateral business,
in Japan.
gained, they started the publication of
the Mainichi slightly surpasses the
sister papers in Tokyo which have
Asahi. In the first place, the Mainichi
The Yomiuri
come to circulate from the Kanto to
publishes the English Mainichi, an
Of the influential papers in the
Hokkaido districts. Since they failed
English language daily published since
country, the Yomiuri can be called a
to dominate the Nagoya and Kyushu
1922 to help the foreigners understand
national 'daily. Although the Asahi
districts, there they established their
Japan and her people; it now. claims
and the Mainichi are other national
branch offices which were to circulate
a circulation of 670,000. Not only that,
papers, they may be called three sepa-
the early Mainichi editions sent from
the Mainichi has the distinction of
Osaka together with local issues with
rate newspapers respectively since
being the first to publish a braille
news' transmitted by wire from the
they publish daily sheets in three
journal for the blind. It also publishes
places, Tokyo, Osaka and northern
main offices. With the merger of daily
the popular Mainichi grammar school
Kyushu. The Yomiuri, however, is
newspapers throughout the country
weekly which it took over from the
published in Tokyo alone. A glance
during the war, the Nagoya branch
Jiji Shimpo when it absorbed the
at the distribution of the Yomiuri
offices of the Asahi and the Mainichi
latter. Its other periodical publica-
shows that while the number of sub-
were abolished and only the Tokyo,
tions include the Sunay Mainichi, the
scribers in Tokyo and neighboring pre-
Osaka, and Kyushu offices have been
Economist, time-honored weeklies, and
fectures is large and grows smaller
retained to continue the publication of
the Sekai-no-Ugoki (World Events),
with distance from Tokyo, the paper
newspapers under the same title.
the Rodo Hyoron (Labor Review), the
nonetheless circulates from Hokkaido
The spheres of influence by the
Nosei Hyoron (Agricultural Adminis-
in the north to Miyazaki prefecture
Asahi and the Mainichi offices in Tokyo
tration Review), and the Sports Mai-
in the south. It may be pointed out
and Osaka were marked by a line link-
nichi which were started after the
that different editions go to different
ing Toyama and Shiztoka prefectures.
war's end.
localities, but they are all published by
Their Tokyo offices cover the territory
The Asahi publishes the Asahi News
the Yomiuri at one place. For this
cast of the line up to Hokkaido while
weekly presenting news of the world
reason, the daily can be called a na-
their Osaka offices extend their influ-
and the overseas edition of the New
tional newspaper.
ence up to Hiroshima prefecture and
York Times. In addition, the time-
The circulation of the Yqmiuri is
the entire area of Shikoku. Their
honored Weekly Asahi and the Asahi
estimated at 460,000 in Tokyo and
Western main offices cover the terri-
Graph are read widely chiefly because
vicinity, 110,000 to 150,000 in Kana-
tory west of Yamaguchi prefecture and
of their excellent planning. Other
gawa, Chiba and Saitama prefectures,
the Kyushu district. The circulations
publications, such as the Asahi Hyoron
60,000 to 90,000 in Shizuóka, Nagano,
of the Asahi and the Mainichi are as
(Review), the Nogyo (Agriculture),
follows:
Tochigi, Ibaragi, Gumma, Fukushima
Asahi, the Fujin (Women) Asahi, and
and Niigata, 20,000 to 30,000 in Miyagi,
Asahi
.. 1,360,000
Tokyo
1,470,000
Osaka
570,000
Kyushu
3,400,000
Totals
the Asahi Sports came into being or
Akfta and Yamagata but mostly in the
Mainichi: 1,470,000
1,340,000
560,000 3,370,000
made their oomeback after the war's
thousands and rarely over 10,000, in
The Asahi and the Mainichi occupy
end.
Aichi, Mie, Ishikawa, and Toyama be-
27 per cent of the total circulation of
Besides, the Asahi and the Mainichi
cause of the Osaka papers and influ-
the daily newspapers in tho'country,
maintain large-scale publication bu-
ential provincial journals. In other
amounting to approximately 18,100,000.
reaus which publish not only periodi-
prefectures, the circulation never ex-
If the Yomiuri is added their combin-
cals but a series of some particular
ceeds the thousand mark, although
ed circulation amounts to 8,420,000, or
interest and books.
Hokkaido is reported to take 3,500.
nearly half the circulation of the entire
Thus the Yomiuri's circulation of
daily newspapers in the country.
The Chubu Nippon Shimbun
1,650,000 is distributed throughout the
Although the Asahi and the Mainichi
The. Chubu Nippon Shimbun ranks
country.
are just about equal in circulation, they
fourth in press circles in·Japan with
Following the withdrawal of the
indicate a marked difference in ideo-
a circulation of 780,000. Its subscrib-

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
26
THE POST-WAR PRESS
ers are scattered over seven prefec-
The circulation of the Hokkaido
Nippon announced that the
tures, 440,000 in Aichi, 130,000 in Gifu,
Shimbun is 630,000, of which 280,000
merely takes charge of the for
800,000 in Mic, 50,000 in Shizuoka,
is claimed by the main 'office in Sap-
printing and cooperates in gath
40,000 in Nagano, 10,000 to 20,000 in
poro, 120,000 by the Asahikawa office,
the news, but there is no question
Shiga and Fukushima. In addition to
93,000 by the Hakodate office and
they are still unseparable.
its property, buildings and machinery
35,000 by the Kushiro office. When
Like the Chubu Nippon, the
amounting to more than ¥70,000,000,
the Hokkaido Shimbun leaned toward
Nippon and the Hokkaido main
the Chubu Nippon Shimbun invests 60
the left, the circulation claimed by the
their influential bureaus in Tokyo
per cent of the capital for the Nobi
main office in Sapporo dropped con-
Shimbun in Tajima city and helps in
siderably. But following the settle-
Provincial Editions of Large
the editing and printing of the Chubu
ment of the Communist issue and a
Newspapers
Keizai and Nagoya Times, both week-
subsequent sweeping reshuffe in the
It should be mentioned in this
lies, as sister papers. The Nobi has a
personnel which resulted in the reno-
junction that all the newspapers wh
circulation of 20,000, the Chubu Keizai,
vation of the paper itself, the circula-
circulate in areas other than 
30,000, and the Nagoya Times, 70,000.
tion again indicated an increase.
places of publication issue provinc
Although morning and evening papers
The total circulation of the newly-
or local editions designed for consum
affiliated with the Asahi and the Mai-
risen papers in Hokkaido is 235,000
tion in some particular localit
nichi have been in circulation in this
against 100,000 claimed by the three
district since the summer of 1946, the
large Tokyo dailies; pressure brought
When newsprint was abundant,
whole page was alloted for such pu
position of the Chubu Nippon Shimbun
to bear upon them by the latter is not
poses, but only two columns in
is firm and solid. The Nagoya times
great as yet.
second are given. The local editio
which was started prior to the advance
The Hokkaido Shimbun subscribes
of these evening papers in this dis-
to AP, publishes the Hokkaido Weekly,
was abolished when the official merge
plan was enforced during the war, bu
trict has been little affected by the
and the Hokkaido Year Book. The
latter and is said to have alrcady paid
Hokkaido Times which was under the
it has made its comeback. Althoug
"one edition for one prefecture"
back its debts to the Chubu Nippon
management of the Hokkaido Shimbun
maintained in principle, some paper
Shimbun.
is said to have obtained independence.
publish two editions for.neighboring
The Asahi and the Mainichi, on the
other hand, have been bolstering their
The Nishi Nippon
prefectures.
In the case of the Mainichi in Tokyo,
competition with the Chubu Nippon
The Nishi Nippon has obtained a
it provides a local edition or columns
Shimbun by issuing three local edi-
rapid increase in circulation since the
in its daily sheet for each of the pre
tions since 1946, but the latter has
war's end. Its circulation of some
fectures north of Shizuoka, Nagano,
successfully countered by extending
400,000 at the surrender rose to 480,000
and Niigata to Hokkaido, but it issues
its deadline for each edition. Already
in 1946 and 547,000 at the end of 1947.
two editions for Chiba, Saitama,
a portion of the building which in-
Reasons for such a notable increase
Nagano, Kanagawa and Niigata, West
curred war damage has been restored.
are said to be (1) return to Kyushu
of these prefectures circulate the
printing shops expanded to install
of Japanese residents from ovérseas,
Mainichi with "local" columns issued
three super high-speed rotary presses
(2) replacement of third country na-
by the main office in Osaka.
which have been ordered. To compete
with the Asahi and the Mainichi, the
tionals by Japanese workers in the
The Yomiuri, a national paper, issues
paper has perfected its system of
Fukuoka and Chikuho mining districts
one or  two editions with "local"
and (3) a rise in the number of em-
colunns for Shizuoka, Nagano, and
printing, communication and telc-pho-
ployes in industrics as they were
Ishikawa, but in areas south of these
tography, thereby making every effort
to prepare for speedy reporting of any
transformed into peace-time under-
prefectures, its Chukyo edition, the
important event. For this reason; it
taking in various parts of Kyushu.
Kansai cditicn, the Seibu edition are
hardly spares expenses for covering the
In the days of the, Fukuoka Nichi
published, for it has a comparatively
news in Tokyo; it maintains the Tokyo
Nichi, the Nishi Nippon started the
few subscribers west of Nagoya.
system of offcring itself and other
general bureau with a staff of around
150. The Chubu Nippon, furthermore,
local papers together to its subscribers
Other Influential Papers
at the fixed subscription rate; neigh-
contributes toward the development of
bering local papers which were taken
While the representative large news-
the agrarian community through pub-
over by the Fukuoka Nichi Nichi were
papers of Japan are five in number
lication, whenever necessary, of the
given the subscribers free of charge.
as has been already discussed, there
Nogyo Nippon and the Chubu Nippon
The Shin Aichi in Nagoya followed
are a few which deserve special men-
Jiji Shinko.
suit, but this circulation building sys-
tion. They are published either by
The Hokkaido Shimbun
tem was abolished with the enforce-
those families well known in their
ment of press controls. But even
district which have contributed toward
In pre-control days, the fifth largest
after it was rechristened as the Nishi
the development of local culture or by
paper in Japan was the Fukuoka Nichi
Nippon, its circulation has not register-
those who started out single-handed
Nichi, predecessor to the Nishi Nippon,
ed a decrease in the Kyushu area and
but who made good in their manage-
but the position was taken over by
Yamaguchi prefecture; it claims 250,-
ment with constant efforts. In either
. the Hokkaido Shimbun following the
000 subscribers in Fukuoka prefecture,
case, however, these papers boast of
merger of a number of newspapers in
some 70,000 in Saga and Nagasaki,
their traditions as family-managed
the Hokkaido district. The Hokkaido
30,000 to 40,000 in Kumamoto, Kago-
journals. Although the purge direc-
Shimbun, however, maintains three
shima, Miyazaki and Oita and 10,000
tive has resulted in the withdrawal of
branch offices in various parts of
in Yamaguchi.
these families from actual manage-
Hokkaido, through which it publishes
The Nishi Nippon publishes the
ment or their severance of relations
three different papers under its own
Nishi Nippon monthly (100,000), the
with their papers since the war's end,
title,, and hence it may be said that
Science monthly (50,000), the Shin
their tradition of family management
they are practically four journals
Bunka and the World. As to relations
still persists in the daily editions of
rather than one.
with the Yukan Fuku Nichi, the Nishi
these papers.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
The Kahoku Shimpo
in Yamaguchi prefecture. Inasmuch
Chubu Nippon which has 40,000 sub-
as the Yukan Hiroshima which was
scribers. For all this, however, the
First mention as family-managed
started with the investment of the
Shinano Mainichi holds 110,000 sub-
papers should be given to the Kahoku
Chugoku Sha is the only newly-risen
scribers, but it is problematical whe
Shimpo in Sendai. The traditions
journal in the prefecture, the Chugoku
ther it is able to maintain the trust
 built up by the two generations of the
Shimbun occupies only 35 per. cent of
which the Kosaka family has built up
Ichiriki family as cultural leader of
the total subscribers in that area. But
in the prefecture.
the Tohoku district are still maintain-
the Yamamoto' family must be given
The Shinano Mainichi publishes the
ed by their successors even though
credit for kceping down the rise of
Shinano Joho monthly, the Sangyo
they have retired from actual manage-
influence of outside papers in' the pre-
Hyoron (Sericulture Review), and the
ment. And the paper boasts of pro-
fecture to this extent.
Shinano Mainichi Year Book.
sperity in the face of newsprint short-
The Chugoku Shimbun publishes the
age. In Miyagi prefecture which is
Chugoku monthly, the Delta quarterly
Newspapers with A Circulation of
rather close to Tokyo, a circulation of
and a series of books. It is recalled
More Than 100,000
approximately 100,000 is claimed by
here that the publishing company
the three large Tokyo newspapers and
Other newspapers which claim a cir-
suffered a heavy loss in the atomic
a total of 10,000 by the Nihon Keizai
culation of more than 100,000 are as
bomb raid; its building was severely
and the Jiji Shinipo, but the Kahoku
follows:
damaged and 102 employes were killed.
Shimpo outdoes them with a circula-
But its building was restored by emer-
Hitherto-existing papers:
tion of 130,000. In addition, it main-
gency repair work within two months.
The Tokyo Shimbun (473,000), the
tains 10,000 subseribers in Aomori,
Since its rehabilitation work is pro-
Nippon Sangyo Keizai (340,000),
Yamagata and Akita prefectures. Off-
ceeding, the complete restoration of
the Osaka Shimbun (310,000),
shoots of the Kahoku Shimpo are
the building as well as printing machi-
the Kobe Shimbun (150,000), the
found in the only evening paper in the
Kyoto Shimbun (138,000), the
nery appears imminent.
Tohoku area, the Yukan Tohoku in
the Hokkoku Mainichi (130,000),
Sendai, the Fukushima Minyu in
The Sanyo Shimbun
the Sangyo Keizai, (129,000), the
Fukushima, the Iwate Shimpo in
Niigata Nippo (123,000), the
Morioka. Although the former two
Another influential paper managed
Minami Nippon Shimbun (117,-
have not attained financial independ-
by joint investments of important
000), and the Kumamoto Nichi
ence, the Iwate is said to stand on its
familics in provinces is found in the
Nichi (100,000).
own financial feet.
Sanyo Shimbun (formerly the Godo)
Newly-risen journals:
The Kahoku Shimpo publishes the
in Okayama which ranks shoulder to
The Jiji Shimpo (250,000), the
Tohoku weckly, the Tohoku Literature,
shoulder with the Kahoku Shimpo and
Tokyo Times, (170,000), the Sun
the Tohoku Sholtokumin. the Sendai
the Chugoku Shimbun. Credit must
(125,000), the Yukan Shin Osaka
Local Culture Study, and the Koma-
be given the Sanyo Shimbun for hold-
(110,000), the Osaka Nichi Nichi
gusa, five periodicals, and other books.
ing its own against the advance of the
(110,000), the Osaka Jiji Shimpo
The paper, together with the Tohoku
Asahi and the Mainichi from Osaka
(100,000), and the Daiichi Shim-
University, constitutes a cultural cen-
which jointly claim 110,000 subscrib-
bun (100,000).
ter of the Tohoku distriet, as hereto-
ers. In addition, the Osaka Jiji and
fore.
the Sangyo Keizai maintain a total of
The End of pre-publication
12,000 to 13,000. Against these papers,
The Chugoku Slimbun
Censorship
the'Sanyo Shimbun has a circulation
Typical of the family-managed pa-
of 153.000, a majority of which is con-
Ed.: SCAP on July 15, 1948 an-
pers in Japan like the Kahoku Shimpo
sumed in Okayama prefecture and
nounced the end of pre-publication
is the Chugoku Shimbun in Hiroshima.
4,000 to 5,000 in Hiroshima prefecture.
censorship for 16 Tokyo and Osaka
It had been a family paper of the
As newly-risen papers, the :Sanyo
daily newspapers and three Japanese
Yamamotos as influential stockholders
Choho and the Yukan Okayama exist,
news agencies.
prior to the purge of President Sane-
but it is still hard for them to stand
At the same time, Col. R. S. Bratton,
ichi Yamamoto, but the publishing
on their own feet apart from the fin-
director of the Civil Intelligence Sec-
company rents its building and print-
ancial help of the former Godo Shim-
tion, GHQ, promised that "within
ing machinery to the Chugoku Shim-
bun, they are intended for consump-
about 10 days—as soon as certain ad-
bun which operates as a corporation
tion in the agrarian community. The
ministrative matters can be cleared
with management rights surrendered
Sanyo Shimbun publishes magazines,
up—all prepublication censorship of
by the Yamamoto family. Thus the
the Okayama monthly, the Sanyo
Japan's news media will be ended."
family has retired from the newspaper
Grammar Sehool journal, the Sanyo
"The papers and agencies removed
enterprise, but its editorial tradition
Middle School journal.
from the precensorship list today are
still persists in the Chugoku Shimbun.
among 30 metropolitan dailies and 11
In Hiroshima prefecture which is
The Shinano Mainichi
news agencies," Colonel Bratton said,
sandwiched by large newspapers from
In addition to the above-mentioned
"which until 1 p.m. Thursday, July 15,
Osaka and northern Kyushu cireulate
family-managed papers, there exists
were subject to pre-publication scru-
the western edition of the Mainichi
the Shinano Mainichi in Nagano pre-
tiny by Allied censorship teams. They
amounting to 45,000, its Osaka edition,
fecture. It had been under the con-.
now join the 4,000-odd smaller papers
34,500, the western edition of the Asahi,
trol of the Kosaka family but it with-
and periodicals which are subject to
43,500, its Osaka edition, 39,700, be-
drew from the management as a result
post-censorship to insure compliance
sides, a total of 15,000 of the Sangyo
of democratization in the office. The
with SCAP regulations, the terms of
Keizai, the Sangyo Shimbun, and the
Shinano Mainichi is now operated by
the occupation, ethical codes and other
Osaka Jiji is subscribed in this prefec-
a board of a few directors. Nagoya pre-
normal requirements of a newspaper
ture.
fecture has long been regarded as the
in a democratic country."
Amid this keen competition, the
sphere of influence for the three Tokyo
The metropolitan papers freed from
Chugoku Shimbun claims a circulation
papers which claim a circulation of
pre-censorship on July 15 were: The
of 180,000 in the prefecture and 20,000
60,000 to 70,000 as well as for the
Asahi, the Dai Ichi Shimbun, the

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
THE POST-WAR PRESS
27
The Kahoku Shimpo
in Yamaguchi prefecture. Inasmuch
Chubu Nippon which has 40,000 sub-
as the Yukan Hiroshima which was
scribers. For all this, however, the
First mention as family-managed
started with the investment of the
Shinano Mainichi holds 110,000 sub-
papers should be given to the Kahoku
Chugoku Sha is the only newly-risen
scribers, but it is problematical whe-
Shimpo in Sendai. The traditions
journal in the prefecture, the Chugoku
ther it is able to maintain the trust
built up by the two generations of the
Shimbun occupies only 35 per cent of
which the Kosaka family has built up
Ichiriki family as cultural leader of
the total subscribers in that area. But
in the prefecture.
the Tohoku district are still maintain-
the Yamamoto' family must be given
The Shinano Mainichi publishes the
ed by their successors even though
credit for keeping down the rise of
Shinano Joho monthly, the Sangyo
they have retired from actual manage-
influence of outside papers in the pre-
Hyoron (Sericulture Review), and the
ment. And the paper boasts of pro-
fecture to this extent.
Shinano Mainichi Year Book.
sperity in the face of newsprint short-
The Chugoku Shimbun publishes the
age. In Miyagi prefecture which is
Chugoku monthly, the Delta quarterly
Newspapers with A Circulation of
rather close to Tokyo, a circulation of
and a series of books. It is recalled
More Than 100,000
approximately 100,000 is claimed by
the three large Tokyo newspapers and
here that the publishing company
Other newspapers which claim a cir-
suffered a heavy loss in the atomic
a total of 10,000 by the Nihon Keizai
bomb raid; its building was severely
culation of more than 100,000 are as
and the Jiji Shimpo, but the Kahoku
follows:
damaged and 102 employes were killed.
Shimpo outdoes them with a circula-
Hitherto-existing papers:
But its building was restored by emer-
tion of 130,000. In addition, it main-
The Tokyo Shimbun (473,000), the
geney repair work within two months.
tains 10,000 subseribers in Aomori,
Nippon Sangyo Keizai (340,000),
Since its rehabilitation work is pro-
Yamagata and Akita prefectures. Off-
ceeding, the complete restoration of
the Osaka Shimbun (310,000),
shoots of the Kahoku Shimpo are
the Kobe Shimbun (150,000), the
the building as well as printing machi-
found in the only evening paper in the
Kyoto Shimbun (138,000), the
nery appears imminent.
Tohoku area, the Yukan Tohoku in
the Hokkoku Mainichi (130,000),
Sendai, the Fukushima
Minyu in
The Sanyo Shimbun
the Sangyo Keizai, (129,000), the
Fukushima, the Iwate Shimpo in
Niigata Nippo (123,000), the
Morioka. Although the
former two
Another influential paper managed
Minami Nippon Shimbun (117,-
have not attained financial independ-
by joint investments of important
000), and the Kumamoto Nichi
ence, the Iwate is said to stand on its
families in provinces is found in the
Nichi (100,000).
own financial fect.
Sanyo Shimbun (formerly the Godo)
Newly-risen journals:
The Kahoku Shimpo publishes the
in Okayama which ranks shoulder to
The Jiji Shimpo (250,000), the
Tohoku weckly, the Tohoku Literature,
shoulder with the Kahoku Shimpo and
Tokyo Times, (170,000), the Sun
the Tohoku Shokokumin, the Sendai
the Chugoku Shimbun. Credit must
(125,000), the Yukan Shin Osaka
Local Culture Study, and the Koma-
be given the Sanyo Shimbun for hold-
(110,000), the Osaka Nichi Nichi
gusa, five periodicals, and other books.
ing its own against the advance of the
(110,000), the Osaka Jiji Shimpo
The paper, together with the Tohoku
Asahi and the Mainichi from Osaka
(100,000), and the Daiichi Shim-
University, constitutes a cultural cen-
which jointly claim 110,000 subscrib-
bun (100,000).
ter of the Tohoku district, as hereto-
crs. In addition, the Osaka Jiji and
fore.
the Sangyo Keizai maintain a total of
The End of pre-publication
12,000 to 13,000. Against these papers,
The Chugoku Shimbun
Censorship
the'Sanyo Shimbun has a cireulation
Typical of the family-managed pa-
of 153.000, a majority of which is con-
Ed.: SCAP on July 15, 1948 an-
pers in Japan like the Kahoku Shimpo
sumed in Okayama prefecture and
nounced the end of pre-publication
is the Chugoku Shimbun in Hiroshima.
4,000 to 5,000 in Hiroshima prefecture.
censorship for 16 Tokyo and Osaka
It had been a family paper of the
As newly-risen papers, the .Sanyo
daily newspapers and three Japanese
Yamamotos as influential stockholders
Choho ,and the Yukan Okayama exist,
news agencies.
prior to the purge of President Sane-
but it is still hard for them to stand
At the same time, Col. R. S. Bratton,
ichi Yamamoto, but the publishing
on their own feet apart from the fin-
director of the Civil Intelligence Sec-
company rents its building and print-
ancial help of the former Godo Shim-
tion, GHQ, promised that "within
ing machinery to the Chugoku Shim-
bun, they are intended for consump-
about 10 days—as soon as certain ad-
bun which operates as a corporation
tion in the agrarian community. The
ministrative matters can be cleared
with management rights surrendered
Sanyo Shimbun publishes magazines,
up—all prepublication censorship of
by the Yamamoto family. Thus the
the Okayama monthly, the Sanyo
Japan's news media will be ended."
family has retired from the newspaper
Grammar Sehool journal, the Sanyo
"The papers and agencies removed
enterprise, but its editorial tradition
Middle School journal.
from the precensorship list today are
still persists in the Chugoku Shimbun.
among 30 metropolitan dailies and 11
In Hiroshima prefecture which is
The Shinano Mainichi
news agencies," Colonel Bratton said,
sandwiched by large newspapers from
In addition to the above-mentioned
"which until 1 p.m. Thursday, July 15,
Osaka and northern Kyushu circulate
family-managed papers, there exists
were subject to pre-publication seru-
the western edition of the Mainichi
the Shinano Mainichi in Nagano pre-
tiny by Allied censorship teams. They
amounting to 45,000, its Osaka edition,
fecture. It had been under the con-
now join the 4,000-odd smaller papers
34,500, the western edition of the Asahi,
trol of the Kosaka family but it with-
and periodicals which are subject to
43,500, its Osaka edition, 39,700, be-
drew from the management as a result
post-censorship to insure compliance
sides, a total of 15,000 of the Sangyo
of democratization in the office. The
with SCAP regulations, the terms of
Keizai, the Sangyo Shimbun, and the
Shinano Mainichi is now operated by
the occupation, ethical codes and other
Osaka Jiji is subscribed in this prefec-
a board of a few directors. Nagoya pre-
normal requirements of a newspaper
ture.
fecture has long been regarded as the
in a democratic country."
Amid this keen competition, the
sphere of influence for the three Tokyo
The metropolitan papers freed from
Chugoku Shimbun claims a circulation
papers which claim a circulation of
pre-censorship on July 15 were: The
of 180,000 in the prefecture and 20,000
60,000 to 70,000 as well as for the
Asahi, the Dai Ichi Shimbun, the

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
28
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT
China International (Osaka), Hokkaido
hailed by numerous publishers and
the day at 7 p.m., except in the case
Shimbun, Jiji Shimpo, Kokusai Times,
government officials as a great "demo-
of major stories.
Mainichi—Nippon Keizai Shimbun,
cratic step," will also involve not a
. The deadline extension is expected
Osaka Nichi Nichi, San Shashin Shim-
few "headaches" in actual practice, ac-
to stiffen competition: among major
bun, Sangyo Keizai (Osaka), Shin
cording to several editors.
papers and to extend the working
Osaka Shimbun, Tokyo Shimbun,
Papers on the cleared list are sub-
hours of ace reporters, hitherto able
Tokyo Times, Yomiuri, and Yukan
ject to a post publication censorship
to leave their office for the day around
Miyako.
to insure compliance with the SCAP
5:30 p.m.
The agencies removed from the list
press code and the accepted require-
Pre-publication censorship was insti-
were: Jiji, Kyodo, and Radio Press.
ments of newspapers in a democratic
tuted here soon after the surrender,
Colonel Bratton promised that those
country. This puts the responsibility
when it became apparent that Japa-
not cleared from pre-censorship re-
squarely up to the editors, instead of
nese editors were misinterpreting the
quirements Thursday would be remov-
allowing them to fall back on Allied
terms "democracy" and "free press" to
ed from the lists within the next 10
censorship decisions in the case of
indulge in slanderous attacks on both
days.
questionable stories.
their own people and the Allied
Radio stations, small city and rural
powers. As there were no libel laws
Another result of the censorship re-
papers, magazines and other media
in prewar Japan, the press practices
moval will be the extension of dead-
have been on a post-censorship basis
here were often somewhat unusual and
lines, from about 7 p.m. to nearly mid-
since last fall and carlier.
did not immediately adjust themselves
A headquarters official said, "all edi-
night in some cases. Although the
to an occupation regime.
tions of the national newspapers,
pre-publication censorship procedure
Accordingly a press code prescrib-
Mainichi, Asahi, and Yomiuri, are
was often speeded up by having the
ing ten simple rules for Japanese pub-
affected by the order."
story set in type first and confirmed
lications was issued as a SCAP direc-
The lifting of pre-publication cen-
by a telephone call after a proof had
tive on September 19, 1945 and this
sorship on the most recent list of large
been submitted, the Censorship office
will continue to be used as a yardstick
Tokyo and Osaka dailies, although
nevertheless stopped receiving copy for
for post-publication censorship.
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT AMONG
JAPANESE NEWSPAPER WORKERS
By MASAO TSUDA
Secretary-General,
Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Editors Association
Introduction
posts of departmental chiefs or above
into a single national trade union also
just prior to and during the war,
began to take place.
When the Pacific war was brought
should retire from the company by
Thus, when the 89th Diet session ap-
to an end, moves for probing those
making clear their responsibilities for
proved the unprecedented Labor Union
responsible for provoking such a sense-
the war.
Law to be enforced from March 1,
less militaristic war sprung up in wari-
In face of this strong demand from
1946, virtually all newspapers, news
ous cireles of Japan on the strength of
their employes, who by then had orga-
agencies and radio broadcasting em-
the provision of the Potsdam Declara-
nized themselves, the president and
ployes got together on February 9 of
tion that "Japan should be completely
the directors of the company as well
that year and organized an "All-Japan
democratized."
as other leading officers of the Asahi
Press and Radio Workers Union."
Thus, it was only natural that simi-
Shimbun were foreed to retire from
Some 346 leading labor delegates
lar moves began to take place within
their posts as of October 24, 1945.
from virtually every newspaper
the Japanese press cirele with the
throughout the country participated in
At about the sametime, similar
Asahi Shimbun (circulation: 3.400,000)
the inaugural meeting of this new
one of the largest Japanese daily news-
moves were being undertaken by the
union and adopted the following de-
employes of the Yomiuri Shimbun
papers, taking the lead.
claration and slogans:
(circulation: 1,650,000) and the Mai-
In other words, when the president
nichi Shimbun (circulation: 3,370,000).
DECLARATIQN (A gist)
and the directors of the Asahi Shimbun
This move among the leading Tokyo
"It goes without saying that the
attempted to reshuffe all leading per-
daily newspapers soon began to spread
newspapers, news agencies, radio
sonnel within their company immedia-
to provincial newspaper where many
broadcasting companies and other such
tely after the surrender with the aim
of the leading personnel of such com-
organizations of the press play a high-
of reorienting the policies of the com-
panies were gradually being removed
ly important part in developing the
any under a new changed situation,
to democratize their organizations and
culture of a nation.
they encountered strong opposition
where labor unions were being orga-
"However, it is indeed regrettable
from the employes in general.
nized by their cmployes.
that such organizations in Japan have
The employes opposed such a move
As labor unions were being organiz-
actively given support and cooperation
on the ground that all leading officers
ed in the various newspaper companies,
to a war initiated by the militarists
of the Asahi Shimbun, who held the
a move for organizing these unions
and, moreover, have even tried to hide

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT
the actual picture of the war from the
trial Unions was organized, the All-
sive or radical labor union movements
people by becomhing solely an institu-
Japan Press and Radio Workers Union
after having been suddenly released
tion for aiding the militaristic leaders
played a leading role.
from feudalistic and militaristic op-
of the time to attain their senseless
The significant points, in the course
pressions with the termination of the
ambitions.
of organizing the All-Japan Press and
wan
"We, hereby, declare that the Japa-
Radio Workers Union, included the
The first Yomiuri Shimbun labor
nese press should never again repeat
following:
dispute from October 23, 1945, the sec-
such a mistake. It should, instead,
1) The All-Japan Press and Radio
ond labor dispute in the same news-
endeavor to accomplish the true but
Workers Union placed all workers of
paper from June, 1946, the Hokkaido
great mission entrusted to it for im-
the editorial staff, printing shops and
Shimbun labor dispute from May, 1946
proving the culture of the nation as
the business section under one single
and the proposed general strike among
a free and independent press.
organization. This became the cause
newspaper workers called for in Sept-
"In this connection, we must over-
for various problems later in the labor
ember, 1946, will all clearly indicate
come such feudalistic ideas which con-
movement.
this trend.
tinued to drive those people engaged
2) Since the organization had been
In other words, the first labor dis-
in journalistic work into a very low
formed so hastily on a nation-wide
pute in the Yomiuri Shimbun took
social and economic position despite
basis, the union encountered difficul-
place after the leading younger em-
the fact that they were entrusted with
ties later in its operation. As the lead-
ployes of the paper submitted a recom-
the important task of developing the
ers of the union were forced to enlist
mendation to President Matsutaro
nation's culture.
such members, who had little knowl-
Shoriki of the company concerning the
"Because of such circumstances, we
edge of labor union movements, they
democratic reforms that should be car-
hereby declare that:
tended to operate the union in a dic-
ried out within the company.
1) We shall fight against all mili-
tatorial manner against the will of
After presentation of these recom-
taristic or feudalistic ideas for
many union members. As a result,
mendations, the management and the
the establishment of a true de-
the relationship between the execu-
employes were at odds for some time,
mocracy within this country and
tive officers of the union and the gen-
but on October 20, President Shoriki
to make the Japanese press a
eral members became strained.
announced the dismissal of Tomin
truly representative organ of the
3) Since the organization was sud-
Suuki and four others who were re-
people by reflecting their wants
denly formed with the termination of
garded as leaders of an uprising within
and demands.
the war, members in general were un-
the company.
2)
We shall also strive to improve
prepared spiritually and financially.
The employes of the paper organiz-
the cconomie, cultural and social
The office space for the union and
ed an editorial committee placed
positions of those engaged in the
office facilities were all provided by
under the direct control of the Sup-
journalistic work as well as to
the managements with the salaries of
reme Strike Policy committee of the
carry out a thorough-going de-
union offizcials also being paid by the
labor union of the company as decided
mocratization in the managerial,
managements. In other words, there
by a general meeting and carried out
personnel and other opérational
were hardly any independent union
what was later described as the "con-
affairs of the Japanese press.
and because many had but little knowl-
trol of the management by labor" in
"We believe that the organization of
edge of union movements, most of the
publishing the paper under their own
a single nationwide trade union by all
workers could not tell the difference
hands.
workers in the Japanese press is an
between unions activities and their
This problem was soon brought be-
indispensable prerequisite for accom-
work. as an cmploye of a company.
fore the Tokyo District Procurators
plishing these aims. For only thus,
Thus, their union activities frequently
office as well as before the temporarily
will we be able to contribute our part
interfered with their work as a com-
organized Labor Disputes Arbitration
in establishing a democratic Japan
pany employe. This naturally brought
Committee. The labor unions of the
through the social and cultural mis-
up serious troublesome problems in
Asahi and Mainichi Shimbuns as well
sions entrusted to us."
face of Artiele XI of the newly-insti-
as the Kyodo News Service gave their
tuted Labor Union Law which provid-
support to the employes of the Yomi-
Slogans
ed that "employers cannot discharge
uri Shimbun. In addition, outside sup-
1.
The thorough-going democratiza-
nor diseriminate an employe because
port was also given by the communist
tion of the Japanese press.
he is a member of a labor union.
and social democratic parties to the
2.
The conclusion of colleetive bar-
At any rate, the All-Japan Press and
Yomiuri employes.
gaining agreements.
Radio Workers Union began to spread
This dispute continued to drag on
3.
Labor's participation in the man-
its influence all over the country with
as the management of the Yomiuri
agement.
local chapters being organized in every
continued to maintain a very strong
4.
The establishment of a minimum
provincial newspaper company. On
stand. However, on December 2, 1945,
wage standard based on living
August, 1946, the union claimed that
when President Shoriki was formally
expenses.
it had 52 local chapters throughout the
designated as a war crimes suspect, the
5.
Equal pay for the same work
country with a total membership of
position of the management began to
regardless of sex or age. . .
31,000.
crumble and finally gave in.
(Note:In addition there were
The various important events and
The second labor dispute at the
three other slogans).
trends which ,took place thereafter
Yomiuri Shimbun was caused by the
Thus, the organization of the All-
with the development of the All-Japan
fact that the labor centering around
Japan Press and Radio Workers Union
Press and Radio Workers Union are
Tornin Suzuki and several others, who
took the lead in the movement for
briefly outlined in the following chap-
were entrusted with the task of edit-
organizing a single national trade
ters.
2
ing the páper, began to adopt leftist
union in Japan according to industries.
(I)
idealogies which were Being clearly
Thereafter, industrial unions began
The Most Progressive Period
reflected in the paper. This invited
to spring up in various industries and
It was only natural that the public
criticisms both from within and out-
when the National Congress of Indus-
in general tended to support progres-
side of the company.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
，
30
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT
At about the sametime, the General
Yomiuri employes announced their
the striking Yomiuri empłoyes headed
Headquarters of the Allied Occupation
secession from the union at the gen-
by Tomin Suzuki.
Forces íssued a warning against cer-
cral meeting held on July 23 by de-
A considerable number of the union
tain stories carried in the May 3 and
nouncing the"radical and dictatorial
members supported the appeal from
June 4 issues of the Yomiuri Shimbun
actions of the union." The seceding
the seceding Yomiuri workers with
for violating the press code.
Yomiuri members also issued·a state-
the result that serious differences of
ment declaring that they would work
opinions began to take place within
Mr. Tsunego Baba, the new presi-
for the establishment of a healthy and
all chapters of the union.
dent of the Yomiuri Shimbun as well
rightful labor union movement.
Threatened with this impending gen-
as an overwhelming majority of the
eral strike, the Japan Newspaper Pub-
employes of the paper interpreted this
This dispute within the Yomiuri
lishers' and Editors' Association, which
warning not only as a warning against
Shimbun continued to drag on for
had been organized by all publishers
certain stories in violation of the press
some time without any sign of a settle-
and executive officers of virtually
code but as warning to probe the res-
ment despite the fact that a Central
every newspaper, news ageney and
ponsibility of the editorial policy in
Labor Relations Board had handed
radio broadcasting company in Japan,
general of their paper.
down a decision on the dispute.
issued the following statement on Oct-
As a result, on June 14, President
When the All-Japan Press and Radio
ober 3:
Baba announced the dismissal of the
Workers called a general strike in
A Statement
six leading members of the editorial
October 1946, the struggle being car-
"The time has now arrived for the
staff headed by Tomin Suzuki and des-
ried out by the Suzuki faction at the
Japan Newspaper Publishers and
cribed this dismissal "as an emergency
Yomiuri Shimbun was listed as one of
Editors' Association to express its
measure taken for the purpose of re-
the slogans.
formal opinion with regard to the
storing the editorial rights of the paper
However, this general strike failed
proposed general strike by all news-
to the management."
to materialize and on October 14, the
paper, news agency and radio work-
Yomiuri management proposed to ne-
ers being called for from October 5.
Subsequent to this dismissal, the
gotiate direetly with the representa-
"There is no doubt of the fact that
employes of the company divided into
tives of the stiiking Suzuki faetion.
the proposed general strike by the
two disputing factions which continu-
ed to remain at odds for some time
After several meetings, the manage-
newspaper, news agency and radio
ment and the disputing workers reach-
workers will shut out the eyes and
to come.
ed an agreement which formally
cars of the entire people of Japan
On June 29, the faction supporting
brought the 150-day struggle to an
and give rise to alarming rumors
those who had been dismissed, took
amicable settlement.
with the fear of bringing about un-
the offensive on the strength of a state-
An incident similar to the Yomiuri's
controllable social unrest.
ment issued by Mr. Cohen, Chief of
second labor dispute also occurred
"Such a situation runs counter to
the Labor Section, G.H.Q., regarding
within the Hokkaido Shimbun after
the good common sense of all news-
the "General Principles of Labor Union
the management discharged some 53
paper, news agency and radio work-
Movements." With this statement in
employes for the purpose of restoring
ers of Japan who are engaged in
their hands, the dismissed faction
the editorial rights of the paper which
the public service of reporting and
charged that the action taken by Pre-
then was being published as if it were
dissiminating news. It is our belief
sident Baba violated Article XI of the
an organ paper of the Japan Com-
that all newspaper, news ageney and
Labor Union Law. On July 1, they
munist party.
radio workers should do whatever
submitted a formal appeal to the Cen-
The employes of the Hokkaido
they can to prevent the arrival of
tral Labor Relations Board.
Shimbun who were dissatisfied with
such a situation which may endanger
On July 3, the Yomiuri management
this action of the management entered
the peace and security of this coun-
announced the transfer of 17 cmployes
into a strike.
try.
"The Association wishes to with-
who were believed to be member of
These labor disputes at the Yomiuri
hold its comments with regard to the
branch offices of the company. This
the Suzuki faction to the prefectural
led the headquarters of the All-Japan
Shimbun and the Hokkaido Shimbun
issues invoived for calling the pro-
announcement led the Suzuki faction
Press and Radio Workers Union to pre-
posed strike. However, the Associa-
tion hopes that some other means
strike tactics forcing the company to
of the company to resort to sit-down
the aggravating inflation of the time.
pare for a general strike in face of
besides a general strike could be
found for settling those issues by
suspend the publication of its papers
from July 12 to July 16.
The union headquarters listed three
calling upon the workers to reflect
demands in its preparation for a gen-
upon the two points that 1) the pro-
On July 16, the anti-Suzuki faction
eral strike calling for 1) the immediate
posed general strike must be avoid-
organized what was known as the
conelusion of collective bargaining con-
ed and that 2) it is contrary to the
"Council for Reconstructing Yomiuri."
tracts, 2) the complete realization of
very spirit on which the 'canons
This faction took possession of the
higher wages and 3) the complete ac-
of journalism' of Japan have been
Yomiuri printing plants which were in
ceptance of the demands being made
founded."
the hands of the sit-down striking fac-
by the disputing workers at the Yomi-
In face of this threatened general
tion and forced them to move out of
uri and Hokkaido Shimbuns.
strike, the people in general also began
the company grounds. The strikers
thus established their headquarters
While preparations for a general
to take an interest of the public role
strike were being carried out by the
being played by the newspapers and
outside of the company and announced
union, the Yomiuri workers who seced-
radios. Reflecting such realizations
that they would continue their strug-
gle under the support of the All-Japan
ed from the union appealed to all other
among the general public, the radical
Press and Radio Workers Union.
union members for a fair and unbiased
labor policies, which were being car-
judgement of their case by stating that
ried out by the All-Japan Press and
In view of this action taken by the
the proposed general strike was a com-
Radio Workers Union for the past one
All-Japan Press and Radio Workers
munistic political strike being called
year and a half, became the target of
Union, the anti-Suuki faction of the
on the excuse of extending support to
mounting criticism.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT
31
(II)
prises into a more workable and effi-
tened by the existence of such em-
The Period of Introspection
cient organizations.
ployes within the company."
—The break in the Newspaper
Thus, the need for immediate unity
Those who were dismissed or trans-
workers labor front—
had to be stressed in every labor union.
ferred, protested vigorously, and was
With a national meeting held in May,
supported by the headquarters of the
With the failure of the general strike
1947, the All-Japan Press and Radio
All-Japan Press and Radio Workers
called by the All-Japan Press and
Workers Union decided to "work for
Union. They charged that the, Mai-
Radio Workers Union, various criticic-
the immediate common goal of unit-
nichi management violated Article XI
isms against the radical labor policies
ing the newspaper workers labor front
of the Labor Union Law and appealed
carried out by union officials in the
even at the cost of seceding from the
to the Tokyo District Labor Relations
past began to inerease within every
Congress of Industrial Unions."
Board.
local chapter of the union.
On the basis of this new poliey of
The principal issues involved in the
Voices of non-confidence in the exe-
the union, a "preparatory committec
case concerned the managerial rights
cutive officials of the union as well as
for uniting the newspaper workers
of newspapers as a private enterprise,
plans for enlightening the understand-
labor front" was formally inaugurated
the relationship between the public
ing of every union member concern-
on August 15, 1947 by representatives
character of newspapers and editorial
ing healthy labor union movements
from all chapters as well as from those
rights, the management's right in per-
began to crop up.
local chapters which had already seced-
sonnel affairs as against the funda-
Moves for improving the cultural
ed from the union.
mental labor rights guaranteed in the
standard of union members also began
to spread. These were all for the pur-
(III)
Labor Union Law and other labor laws.
pose of strengthening the internal
Japanese Labor Union Tacties
With regard to this particular case,
structure of the All-Japan Press and
A unique tactic was employed by
the Tokyo Labor Relations Board
handed down the decision that the ac-
Radio Workers Union.
the Japanese labor unions in spread-
tion taken by the Mainichi manage-
These talks began to take on con-
ing their influence. For example, the
ment was in violation of Article XI of
crete form at the national meeting of
various labor unions demanded the es-
the Labor Union Law because the dis-
the union held at Osaka from March
tablishment of "Labor1Capital Manage-
missals and transfers were carried out
27, 1947, when the Mainichi chapter
ment Councils" claiming that labor
only on the basis that "the persons in
proposed that 1) the union secede from
representatives should participate in
question were radical labor union
the Congress of Industrial Unions and
the management.
members."
2) change the provisions of its con-
This demand by the labor was given
The basic issue, however, concern-
stitution by giving membership only
Government support as it was thought
ing the management's right to dismiss
to a collective group instead of to in-
that such councils would give both the
or transfer persons who neglect their
dividuals.
capital and labor a chance to exchange
jobs because of labor union activities
The Mainichi chapter announced its
their views in preventing labor dis-
had not been solved. This was an
secession from the union when its pro-
putes.
issue which arose from the fact that
posal was defeated. This opened the
As a result, newspaper workers also
active labor union members were fre-
way for the secession of the local chap-
began to demand the establishment of
quently forced to neglect their jobs
ters at the Akita Sakigake Shimbun,
such councils with some 40 companies
because labor unions were not com-
the Shin-Osaka, the Godo Shimbun, the
agrecing to insert such a provision in
pletely independent financially or
Kochi Shimbun and others.
their collective bargaining agreements
otherwise.
With this inereasing number of local
as of September, 1946.
Meanwhile, the newspaper workers
chapters seceding from the union, the
The establishment of the "Labor-
labor front confronted another new
labor front organized by the Japanese
Capital Management Councils" was
incident as its local chapter within
newspaper, press and radio workers ap-
preceded by a move which was called
the Japan Radio Broadcasting Com-
peared as though it was crumbling to
"Production Control by Labor." This
pany was faced with an internal split.
picces.
tactic was first employed in October,
At a general meeting of the local
In face of such a situation, however,
1945, during the first strike within the
a move for uniting the newspaper
Yomiuri Shimbun.
chapter of the Japan Radio Broadcast-
ing Company held on December 8,
workers labor front began to take
When this tactic by labor was later
1947, certain members of the local
shape 'again within the union itself
declared illegal, the workers changed
along with similar reflective moves in
to the new ·tactic of calling for the
issued the following statement bitterly
all other labor unions of the country
creation of "Labor Capital Manage-
criticizing the "revolutionary and com-
as a result of the abortive general
ment Councils."
munistic activities of the union lead-
ers."
strike of February 1, 1947, which would
While the newspaper workers labor
have involved virtually all labor unions
front was on the verge of collapse, the
"The headquarters of the All-Japan
throughout the nation.
management of various companies took
Press and Radio Workers, . Union
In other words, all labor unions
advantage of this and began "purging"
ignored the present internal situation
within the country had to reflect'seri-
radical labor clements within their
in Japan as well as the international
ously upon their past activities as they
companies.
situation since October, 1945, and have
were all being threatened by a pos-
In May, 1946, the Mainichi Shimbun
been carrying out disputes only for
sible split up due to the issuance of
dismissed or transferred some of its
dispute sake.
a new directive issued by the Supreme
employes who were active leaders in
"This revolutionary and communistic
Commander of the Allied Powers in
the October general strike move of
policy of advocating strikes at all times
preventing general strikes.
1945 and the February 1 general strike
has not been altered despite its con-
At about this time, there were talks
of 1946.
tinuous failures in the past.
that the capitalists or managements of
This dismissals and transfers were
"We oppose the executive officers of
various enterprises were planning mass
carried out by the Mainichi Shimbun
the All-Japan Press and Radio Work-
diseharges of their employes for the
because "it feared that the editorial
ers Union who continue to enforce
purpose of rationalizing their enter-
rights of the paper were being threa-
such a policy."

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
32
POST-WAR LABOR MOVEMENT
The general meeting of the Japan
violated the editorial rights of the
trolling measures necessary for news
Radio Broadcasting Company local im-
newspaper.
paper editing such as deciding and en-
mediately split into two factions, one
The five discharged employes imme-
forcing the editorial policy of a news-
supporting executive officers of the
diately appealed to the Fukuoka Pre-
paper and maintaining the truthful-
union and the other opposing them.
fectural Labor Relations Board stating
ness in news reporting, the fairness
This fight between the two factions
that the management of Nishi Nippon
in comment and its presentation con-
continued until the local was finally
Shimbun violated Article XI of the
stitutes the editorial rights.
split up into two factions with the anti-
Labor Union Law.
The editorial policy of a newspaper
executive officers group seceding from
This ineident again brought to fore
shall include a specific and concrete
the union.
the controversial issues centering
policy for handling of spot news as it
These seceders along with other
around the problems of editorial
occurs as well as the paper's basic edi-
locals which seceded from the All-
rights, personnel matters and the
torial principle.
Japan Press and Radio Workers Union
fundamental labor rights guaranteed
The truthfulness in news reporting
decided to organize their own union
under the various labor laws.
and the fairness in comment and its
for bringing about a healthy labor
The problems concerning editorial
presentation shall be determined by
movement in the Japanese newspaper
rights were soon taken up for discus-
the Canons of Journalism set by the
circles.
sion by all newspapers throughout the
Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Edi-
The AJPRWU claimed that this new
country as the biggest issue of the day.
tors' Association.
labor organ was nothing but an organ
In face of this growing controversy
2. The execution of editorial rights
composed of company unions support-
centering around the management's
Since the final responsibility for edi-
ed by the capitalists.
editorial rights. the Japan Newspaper
torial content of a newspaper rests
Publishers' and Editors' Association in
The newspaper workers labor front
with its manager and managing editor,
the latter part of December, 1947, made
was thus split into two with both group
the editorial rights shall be executed
public its opinion on this isste by stat-
being diametrically opposed to cach
only by the management and the man-
ing that management was free to act
other as far as their basic concepts
aging editor to whom the authority
in personnel matters as far as editorial
concerning labor union movements
is delegaged by the management.
rights of the paper are concerned."
were concerned.
When a newspaper is a juridical per-
On March 3, 1947, the Labor Section
son, the Board of Directors shall exer-
(IV)
of the General Headquarters of the
cise the editorial rights as the party
Allied Forces published a similar
Editorial Rights and Personnel
responsible for the management of the
statement making clear the relation-
The labor tactic of publishing a
ship between the management's edi-
paper.
cheap, lowly newspaper, which could
torial rights and personnel matters.
3. The assurance of editorial rights
not possibly be sold, was adopted by
In view of the fact that all member
It is a duty of the manager and the
the workers of the Nishi Nippon
newspapers and news agencies of the
managing editor of a newspaper to eli-
Shimbun around December, 1947, in
Japan Newspaper Publishers' and Edi-
minate any form of encroachment upon
protest against the management's atti-
tors' Association recognize the assur-
the editorial rights, whether it is com-
tude towards their demands for higher
ance of editorial rights as indispens-
ing from the outside or the inside of
wages.
able in establishing and maintaining
the organization. They shall refuse
As this dispute continued to aggra-
a free and responsible press, the Asso-
to submit to any encroachment from
vate, the labor leaders instrueted all
ciation issued with an approval of its
the outside. And internally, they shall
ordinary employes to carry out what
Board of Directors the following state-
eliminate, on the ground of violating
was termed as "tacties of silenee" by
ment on March 16, 1948, elucidating
the editorial rights, any employee who
prohibiting them to speak to any offi-
by-laws thereanent:
committed, intentionally or through a
cial of the newspaper who were chiefs
serious mistake, an act injurious to
of bureaus or above.
The Statement on Assurance
the truthfulness in news reporting and
However, this tactie of lowering the
of Editorial Rights
the fairness in comment and its pre-
quality as well as quantity of a news-
sentation or who refused to comply
The freedom of press is a right guar-
paper invited serious criticisms from
with the specified editorial policy.
anteed. by the Constitution. It is a
various circles as such tacties not only
Any act interfering with printing
right to make a fair comment on and
ignored the management's editorial
factually report all matters, providing
and distribution of a publication be-
rights but also had no direct connec-
cause of its editorial content shall be
that they are not injurious to the pub-
tion with their demand for higher
lie interests and are not inviolation
regarded as a violation of the editorial
wages.
of the law. The freedom of press is
rights.
Furthernmiore, certain members with-
the basis of all other freedoms and
(Ed.: On July 31, 1948, the employes
in the union issued a statement charg-
is indispensable for the maintenance
of most newspaper-publishing com-
ing the union leaders of following "in-
and development of a demoeratie so-
panies throughoui the country, with
structions" issued by the local chapter
ciety. The establishment and main-
the important exeeption of the union
of the Communist party.
tenance of the freedom of press is a
at the Mainichi Shimbun that reserved
This internal strife within the union
great responsibility of all newspaper-
its definite attitude for the time being,
itself finally led to the resignation en
men since it is the only way to develop
formed the All-Japan Newspaper
bloc of all officers of the únion with
a responsible press. The editorial
Workers' Union. This newly formed
the dispute with the management end-
rights are an authority to be recogniz-
union has no affiliation with the,Con-
ing in a complete failure.
ed by all in order to execute such a
gress of Industrial Unions of Japan
On the other hand, the management
responsibility.
and, does not admit workers of partisan
on December 31, 1946, discharged five
newspapers such as the Akahata,
labor leaders who were alleged to have
1. The nature of editorial rights
mouthpiece of the Japan Communist
led the dispute on charges that they
The authority to exercise all con-
Party.)

=== Page 113 === (confidence 1.00)
MATERIALS FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR NEWSPAPER
INDUSTRY
Japan's Newsprint
By Mahito Ishimitsu
Newsprint Section Chief,
Japan Newspaper Publishers' & Editors' Association
1. Production Crippled By War
As shown by the above statistical
output has dropped to only 28 per cent
The status of Japan's paper manu-
data, newsprint output in 1947 amount-
of that of pre-war times.
facturing enterprises as relating to
ed to only 28 percent that of 1937.
Even if were pulp material, coal and
other domestic industries underwent a
The chaotic trend has continued since
other essentials provided adequately,
marked change with the outbreak of
the Surrender, and the three principal
the present available facilities would be
the Sino-Japanese Conflict in- 1937 as
reasons obsiructing production re-
capable of producing only a maximum
the major turning point.
covery are the following:
nnual output of 432,000,000 pounds of
The change was attributable prin-
paper for newspaper use—a volume
cipally to a drastic relegation of the
A. Coal and transportation
only 39 percent of the actual output in
importance of the paper manufacturing
Shortage
prewar 1937. This is the limit of re-
industry with the reorganization of the
Lack of coal is the primary handicap
cover attainable with the use of exist-
nation's industrial structure on a mili-
of Japan's newsprint manufacturing in-
ing facilities.
tary footing, wherein primary stress
dustry, as in the case of industrial re-
If it is further assumed that this
was shifted to augmenting and promot-
covery as a whole. The fact, moreover,
maximum figure is attained, the sup-
ing only those key industries as hav-
that 80 per cent of Japan's newsprint
ply only would be sufficient for in-
ing a direct bearing on the prosecution
mills are situated in Hokkaido, where
creasing the present two-page papers
of the war.
coal production has been registering
to four-page size without any expan-
Under such military necessity, it
poor results and a severe shortage of
sion in current circulation volume.
proved inevitable that the productive
transportation capacity exists, has dealt
It is needless to say that this volume
capacity of paper manufacturing enter-
a damaging direct blow to newsprint
would be wholly inadequate for re-
prises should thereafter have register-
production.
storing the publication of numerous
ed a yearly decline.
papers suppressed during the war
The following is an illustration of
B. Loss of Saghalien
under "thought control" and for per-
total paper production in this country
Japan's defeat in the war and her
mitting the issuance of new papers.
on and after 1937:
acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration
Under such circumstances, there is
no other speedy means for enabling
Statistical Chart of All Paper
led to the loss of Saghalien, which
Japanese newspapers to cooperate in
Production
hitherto had been the country's chief
Japan's democratic restoration through
source of pulp supply.
(pound unit)
adequate news coverage and fair
In Saghalien, Japan had established
Year
Output
Percentage
management than to depend on for-
nine plants for producing high grade
1937
3,200,146,000
100
eign imports of paper.
pulp and paper. Paper manufacturers
1938
2,838,060,000
89
Up until 1937, Japan annually im-
in Japan Proper had relied heavily on
1939
3,251,916,000
102
ported 161,694,800 pounds of newsprint
1940
3,406,068,000
106
pulp shipments from Saghalien for
from Canada. Thus, it may be said
carrying out operations. The loss of
1941
3,337,630,000
104
that her need of foreign imports now
Saghalien, hence, deprived Japan's
1942
2,679,538,000
84
has become far in excess of this
paper manufacturing industry of its
1943
2,112,408,000
66
figure.
1944
1,231,610,000
38
self-sufficiency character, critically up-
1945
581,634,000
18
setting the equilibrium of supply and
2. Newsprint Control, Circulation
1946
462,398,000
14
demand. The past importance of
Change in Paper Size
1947
633,316,000
20
Saghalien as the chief supplyer of pulp
With the outbreak of the Sino-Japa-
is illustrated in the fact that 60 per
nese conflict in 1937, imports of foreign
B.
Statistical Chart of Newsprint
cent of the country's domestic paper
paper into Japan were prohibited, and
Production
mills were still unable to operate as
Japan was compelled to rely on domes-
(pound unit)
of 1947.
tic newsprint production for meeting
Year
Output
Percentage
her own needs.
1937
708,317,000
100
C. Decrease of Paper Mills
For forestalling a serious clash of
1938
617,863,000
87
Although the actual extent of losses
intcrests and competition in securing
1939
590,411,000
83
incurred from the war was compara-
domestic paper supplies, newspapers,
1940
552,894,000
78
tively small, Hokkaido's foremost
hence, voluntarily adopted an agree-
1941
478,497,000
68
newsprint production facilities were
ment among themselves to control
1942
330,550,000
47
converted into factories for military
newsprint consumption.
1943
340,739,000
48
use under official orders and were sub-
In May, 1940, however, the Govern-
1944
235,023,000
33
sequently lost through their removal
ment stepped into the problem by
1945
151,777,000
21
to Japanese-occupied territories.
creating a Newspaper & Magazine
1946
189,674,000
27
In view of the above-mentioned
Newsprint Control Committee. This
1947
199,230,000
28
three reasons, the volume of newsprint
body was composed of officials of the

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
34
MATERIALS FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
Home, Commerce-Industry ministries
the sae year, a new organ called the
short duration, the obstacles encount-
and the Board of Information, and its
Newspaper and Publication Newsprint
ered in rectifying the situation were
operation took the paper consumption
Allocation Committee was created
rhanifold, with the result that eper-
issue entirely out of civilian hands.
within the Board of Information.
cussions are still being felt in 1948.
The Govèrnment in the following
This marked the first creation of a
This is namely because sales of
year ordered a readjustment and uni-
civilian committee, with the appoint-
newspapers in Japan are handled by
fication of newspapers and news agen-
ment to committee membership of five
a cooperative sales organ, which, in
cies with the dual aim of effectuating
persons each representing the Govern-
turn, distributes papers to households.
further newsprint economy and of con-
ment, newspaper publishers and neu-
After the Surrender, a large num-
trol over free expression of public
trals.
ber of Japanese nationals, it will be
opinion.
This committee in December of the
recalled, returned to Japan from abroad
As the result of this action, 240 prin-
same year was transferred under the
and people who had evacuated to the
cipal daily papers throughout the coun-
jurisdiction of the Commerce-Indus-
country in wartime began moving back
try were reduced to 54 by November,
try Ministry upon the dissolution of
to their former abodes.
1942, on the basic principle of permit-
the Board of Information.
The shift in population from such
ting only one paper to every prefec-
In March, 1946, the committee was
factors led to a sudden increase in
ture. An exception, however, was re-
reconstituted on 'a new basis of rep-
newspaper subscribers and resultant
cognized in the cases of Tokyo, Osaka
resentation, namely, four newspaper
difficulty in realizing swift counter-
and Fukuoka in the light of their high
publishers, four neutrals and one Gov-
measures.
population density. At the time of the
ernment official.
The coutcome was that newspaper
Surrender, the number of such papers
Subsequently, in November of the
circulation shot up 12 percent over
remained the same.
same year, a Newsprint Allocation
the total amount of newsprint allocat-
During the war period, newsprint
Bureau was created in the Cabinet
ed for use. Subsequently, the figure
output not only registered a yearly de-
rose by another 8 percent. To meet
Secretariat, and the Committee was re-
cline but sea and land transport dif-
organized on the basis of five news-
this swelling in demand, newspapers
ficulties between Hokkaido, the prin-
were allowed to secure needed paper
paper publishers, five neutrals and one
cipal production center, and Honshu,
on the basis of advance borrowing
government official, of which six mem-
caused a drop in the volume of news-
bers were those of the Japan News-
from their allocated supply.
print supply for consumption use.
paper Publishers' & Editors' Associa-
Thus, newsprint output, allocation
The Government, namely, the News-
tion, four selected by the Government
and consumption were inevitably
print Control Committec, sought to
and one official from the Commerce-
thrown out of balance, and consumer
prevent a decrease in newspaper cir-
Industry Ministry.
volume itself became unfairly dispro-
culation so as to ensure proper guid-
Their terms of office was decided
portionate among individual papers.
ance of public opinion during the war.
upon as six months, one year and 18
The newsprint allocation committee,
As a positive measure, it decided to
months, respectively, for three mem-
hence, found itself in a difficult posi-
increase circulation volume by univer-
bers each, and this Committee has con-
tion with reference to obtaining a basic.
sally reducing the size of newspapers.
tinued in operation until the present
solution of the problem, especially in
Under its order, the size of daily
time.
view that the entire situation threaten-
papers was gradually curtailed to only
Thus, newsprint allocation work
ed to undermine the very significance
two pages. The economy as to size,
which began bureaueratic management
of the allocation system.
however, enabled an increase in the
in 1940 was shifted gradually into ci-
On the other hand, assurance of the
volume of copies circulated.
vilians hands.
right of free expression of opinion as
a sequel to the Surrender stimulated
A. CHANGE IN PAPER SIZE
4. New Post-war Papers: Confusion
zealous planning of new newspapers
(Dailies)
in Supply and Demand;
and drew a flood of requests for news-
Date
Papers
No. of
Copies Percentage
Readjustment
print allocations to the Newsprint Al-
November 1942
42.271,766
·100
location Committee.
1943
51
13.784.870
112
Of the dailies reduced to 54 in num-
In order to promote freedom of
1946
1947
130
128
18,423,336
18.318.403
145
150
ber under wartime control, 43 were
speech, the committee decided to re-
affeeted by air raids. While the latter
cognize new publications to the great-
B.
CIRCULATION
experienced increasing difficulty in
est possible extent. However, as slug-
(Dailies)
maintaining publication, none of them
gish newsprint output gave no guar-
Apr. 1942
Date
Morning and Evening
Edition
total
Weekly
Pages
40
was compelled to suspend business.
However, a marked unbalanced situa-
print, the committee in May, 1946, was
antee of an adequate supply of news-
Oct. 1943
36
tion eventually arose among those
forced to suspend new allocations to
Mar. 1944
Morning only
(all evening papers
24
which lost large emergency use news-
evening papers, youth papers and re-
suspended)
print allocation advanced for coping
creational papers.
Nov.1944
Morning
1.1
with wartime transportation difficulties
Moreover, it was promoted to pro-
3. Democratization of Newsprint
and those which escaped without
hibit issuance of fresh allocations to
damage.
ordinary dailies in areas where a high
Allocation Structure
Moreover, following the country's
rate of newspaper availability existed
On October 23, 1945, after the termi-
defeat, the situation further was ag-
as to population size, and to reduce
nation of the war, SCAP ordered the
gravated through a weakening in Gov-
the allocation of those papers which
cancellation of all legal stipulations ob-
ernment power to enforce stipulations
registered poor sales after receiving
structing freedom of expression and
on consumers.
their newsprint ration. Moreover, it
the dissolution of all associated control
This conditions took place during the
was decided to cancel issuance of al-
organs.
period from September, 1945, after the
locations to papers of inferior standard
Under such action, the Cabinet
Surrender, until November of the same
as well as to those which refused to
Newspaper & Magazine Newsprint Con-
year, when SCAP authorized the crea-
abide with warnings issued by the
trol Committee, previously referred to,
tion of an allocation committee.
committee.
was liquidated. On November 26 of
While the intervening period was of
As these steps were still inadequate
<

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
MATERIALS. FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
to cope with unbalanced newsprint
5. Cooperation of Newspapers in
which have been selected by lot-
supply and demand, the committee in
Newsprint Production
tery.
October of the same year finally sus-
Shortage of newsprint production
D.
Nature of Survey (questions)
pended all new allocations. The fol-
and the attendant crisis in supply has
1. What is the name of your
lowing figures are that of paper al-
continued throughout the war and
present paper?
location during this period:
until the present day, and newspapers
2.
If you were allowed only öne
A. Papers Publishing Since War-
have been called upon 'to give con-
paper, what would
you
time
tinued support to newsprint pro-
choose (first choice)?
Quantity in
duction.
3.
If you were allowed two
Type
No.
Pounds
The Japan Newspaper Publishers' &
papers, what would be your
Ordinary dailies
53
12,008,750
Editors' Association, in this respect,
second choice?
Others
18
121,400
has created a Newsprint Policy Com-
4.
Of papers sold on the streets,
News Agencics
2
126,900
mittee composed of representatives of
what would be your first
newspapers, the Economic Stabilization
choice? Your second?
B. Papers Publishing After Sur-
Board, the Commerce-Industry and
5.
How many papers do you
render
Transport Ministries and newsprint
wish?
Quantity in
manufacturing companies, and has
E. Number of Households Covered
Type
No.
Pounds
striven to analyze and solve all ob-
—41,679.
Others
Ordinary dailies
92
65
2,852,833
1,049,546
stacles, such as relating to raw mater-
ial, production and transportation of
F.
Results of Survey
1. Requested circulation of first
News Agencies
10
38,487
finished newsprint.
choice papers — 14,097,589
The newsprint production crisis aris-
It has, thus, been able successfully
copies.
(Papers existing
ing from lack of coal and insufficient
to surmount serious crises which have
from during the war—96 per-
transportation capacity,however,
cropped up from time to time since
cent; new papers—4 per-
could not be stemmed simply by re-
the Surrender.
cent.)
stricting new publications.
The policy committee has its head-
2.
Requested circulation of sec-
In December, 1946, difficulties from
quarters in Tokyo and chapters in
ond choice papers—7,002,562
transportation finally led to nation-
Hokkaido, Kyushu and Niigata, which
copies. (Papers existing
wide shortage of newsprint supply, and
are production zoncs, and also in
from during the war—87.7
complete suspension of publications
Aomori, Sendai and other places, which
per cent; new papers—12.3
was averted only by enforcing the use
are important as transportation cen-
per cent).
of two tabloid editions a week.
ters.
3.
Requested
circulationof
During the three months from March
papers sold on the streets—
to May, 1947, newspapers affiliated
6. Newsprint Allocation Revision
6,451,426 copies. (Papers ex-
with the Japan Newspapers Publishers'
With Public Survey
isting from during the war
& Editors' Association went on a
For rectifying numerous problems
—78 per cent; new papers—
tabloid basis twice a week.
which have been carried over from
22 per cent).
This action, however, was voluntary
the war or have arisen thereafter, such
4.
Of the total requested cir-
and aimed principally at turning over
as those pertaining to unequitable dis-
culation, 60 per cent compris-
ed requests for such nation-
newsprint supply thus economized for
tribution of newsprint stocks, opinion
the use of school textbooks, whose
has been strong that an over-all revi-
ally, long-established papers
as Asahi, Mainichi and Yomi-
publication had become impossible
sion should be made of allocation
uri. The remaining 40 per-
from lack of paper.
figures.
Through the issuance of tabloid
The Newsprint Allocation Commit-
cent were made up of re-
quests for provincial papers
editions during the three months,
tee began in 1946 to seek a logical
which constitute the major-
newspapers were able to save and
solution of this issue by attempting
ity of the national papers and
turn over 6,000,000 pounds of news-
to find some sort of a control system
print to the Government.
lication of people's opinions.
which would not infringe on free pub-
5.
Total requested circulation
new papers.
While the supply was still inadequate,
comprises the request of
it enabled the Government to carry
After.prolonged consideration, a de-
households and excludes that
cision was reached in June, 1947. It
out the publication of new school text-
of government offices, com-
was resolved that any increase or de-
books neccssitated through the reform
panies, factorics, etc. The
crease in newsprint rationing to indivi-
of the educational system following the
total figure amounts to only
dual newspapers should be governed by
war's end.
5 percent in excess of the
paper sales reflecting the free will of
In addition, the Japan Newspaper
present number of copies al-
readers. To realize such an aim, it
& Publishers' Editors' Association dur-
located for circulation figure
was believed that this could be at-
ing the period under review monthly
for dailies is not deficient to
tained only by first making a careful
set aside five percent of its warehouse
any marked extent and the
public opinion poll of newspaper
stocks for other uses.
readers throughout the country.
chief drawback is that
This is because Japan lost its major
This survey, which is the first of its
readers cannot obtain the
source of pulp through the loss of
kind in the world, was undertaken by
papers they wish to read.
Saghalien, and domestic plants other
the Newsprint Allocation Committee
The results of the survey have be-
than those which were compelled to
with the moral backing of SCAP.
come vital material for the Newsprint
reduce their operation by 40 percent
The manner in which it was in-
Allocation Committee in judging future
were all engaged in paper manufac-
stituted is briefly outlined as follows:
allocation policy on an impartial
turing other thin newsprint. It was
A. Date of Enforcement—Septem-
basis.
an inevitable step to alleviate to some
ber, 1947.
Although provincial papers were
extent the shortage existing in ordin-
B.
Scope—Nationwide.
shown to register poor results, the poll
ary paper.
C.
Method—Survey of households
does not regard the outcome as deny-

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
MATERIALS. FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
to cope with unbalanced newsprint
5. Cooperation of Newspapers in
which have been selected by lot-
supply and demand, the committee in
Newsprint Production
tery.
October of the same year finally sus-
Shortage of newsprint production
D.
Nature of Survey (questions)
pended all new allocations. The fol-
and the attendant crisis in supply has
1. What is the name of your
lowing figures are that of paper al-
location during this period:
continued throughout the war and
until the present day, and newspapers
2.
If you were allowed only one
present paper?
A. Papers Publishing Since War-
have been called upon 'to give con-
paper, what would you
time
tinued support to newsprint pro-
choose (first choice)?
Quantity in
duction.
3.
If you were allowed two
Type
No.
Pounds
The Japan Newspaper Publishers' &
papers, what would be your
Ordinary dailies
53
12,008,750
Editors' Association, in this respect,
second choice?
Others
18
121,400
has created a Newsprint Policy Com-
4.
Of papers sold on the streets,
News Agencics
2
126,900
mittee composed of representatives of
what would be your first
choice? Your second?
newspapers, the Economic Stabilization
B. Papers Publishing After Sur-
Board, the Commerce-Industry and
5.
How many papers do you
render
Transport Ministries and newsprint
wish?
Quantity in
manufacturing companies, and has
E.
Number of Households Covered
Type
No.
Pounds
striven to analyze and solve all ob-
—41,679.
Ordinary dailies
92
2,852,833
stacles, such as relating to raw mater-
F.
Results of Survey
Others
65
1,049,546
ial, production and transportation of
1. Requested circulation of first
News Agencies
10
38,487
finished newsprint.
choice papers — 14,097,589
The newsprint production crisis aris-
It has, thus, been able successfully
copies.
(Papers existing
ing from lack of coal and insufficient
to surmount serious crises which have
from during the war—96 per-
transportation capacity,however,
cropped up from time to time since
ceńt; new papers—4 per-
could not be stemmed simply by re-
the Surrender.
cent.)
stricting new publications.
The policy committee has its head-
2.
Requested circulation of sec-
In December, 1946, difficulties from
quarters in Tokyo and chapters in
ond choice papers—7,002,562
transportation finally led to nation-
Hokkaido, Kyushu and Niigata, which
copies. (Papers existing
wide shortage of newsprint supply, and
are production zones, and also in
from during the war—87.7
complete suspension of publications
Aomori, Sendai and other places, which
per cent; new papers—12.3
was averted only by enforeing the use
are important as transportation cen-
per cent).
of two tabloid editions a week.
ters.
3.
Requested
circulation of
During the three months from March
papers sold on the streets—
to May, 1947, newspapers affiliated
6. Newsprint Allocation Revision
6,451,426 copies. (Papers ex-
with the Japan Newspapers Publishers'
With Public Survey
isting from during the war
& Editors' Association went on a
For rectifying numerous problems
—78 per cent; new papers—
tabloid basis twice a week.
which have been carried over from
22 per cent).
4.
Of the total requested cir-
This action, however, was voluntary
the war or have arisen thereafter, such
culation, 60 per cent compris-
and aimed principally at turning over
as those pertaining to unequitable dis-
ed requests for such nation-
newsprint supply thus economized for
tribution of newsprint stocks, opinion
ally, long-established papers
the use of school textbooks, whose
has been strong that an over-all revi-
as Asahi, Mainichi and Yomi-
publication had become impossible
sion should be made of allocation
uri. The remaining 40 per-
from lack of paper.
figures.
cent were made up of re-
Through the issuance of tabloid
The Newsprint Allocation Commit
quests for provincial papers
editions during the three months,
tee began in 1946 to seek a logical
which constitute the major-
newspapers were able to save and
solution of this issue by attempting
ity of the national papers and
turn over 6,000,000 pounds of news-
print to the Government.
lication of people's opinions.
to find some sort of a control system
which would not infringe on free pub-
5.
Total requested circulation
new papers.
While the supply was still inadequate,
comprises the request of
After.prolonged consideration, a de-
it enabled the Government to carry
households and excludes that
cision was reached in June, 1947. It
out the publication of new school text-
of government offices, com-
was resolved that any increase or de-
books necessitated through the reform
panies, factories, etc. The
crease in newsprint rationing to indivi-
of the educational system following the
total figure amounts to only
dual newspapers should be governed by
war's end.
5 percent in excess of the
paper sales reflecting the free will of
In addition, the Japan Newspaper
present number of copies al-
readers. To realize such an aim, it
& Publishers' Editors' Association dur-
located for circulation figure
was believed that this could be at-
ing the period under review monthly
for dailies is not deficient to
tained only by first making a careful
set aside five percent of its warehouse
public opinion poll of newspaper
any marked extent and the
stocks for other uses.
readers throughout the country.
chief drawback is that
This is because Japan lost its major
This survey, which is the first of its
readers cannot obtain the
source of pulp through the loss of
kind in the world, was undertaken by
papers they wish to read.
Saghalien, and domestic plants other
the Newsprint Allocation Committee
The results of the survey have be-
than those which were compelled to
with the moral backing of SCAP.
come vital material for the Newsprint
reduce their operation by 40 percent
The manner in which it was in-
Allocation Committee in judging future
were all engaged in paper manufac-
stituted is briefly outlined as follows:
allocation policy on an impartial
turing other thn newsprint. It was
A. Date of Enforcement—Septem-
basis.
an inevitable step to alleviate to some
ber, 1947.
Although provincial papers were
extent the shortage existing in ordin-
B.
Scope—Nationwide.
shown to register poor results, the poll
ary paper.
C.
Method—Survey of households
does not regard the outcome as deny-

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
36
MATERIALS FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
ing the importance of provincial papers.
ed fully in practice by the end of 1948.
to civilian hands as a sequel to the end
This is because of the consideration
Under the past monopolistic system,
of the war, there has been no epoch-
that Japan's past national structure,
which enabled large-scale production,
making change in the method of news-
political, economic and cultural, hinged
the price of newsprint was compara-
print allocation itself. The newspaper
upon Tokyo as the nation's focal point,
tively cheap. However, when news-
public opinion survey, motivated with
and readers are still being influenced
print production is broken up and
the object of sounding out readers' de-
to a large degree by the past setup.
delegated to small companies, there is
sire and enabling an impartial basis
Since the Surrender, however, de-
possibility that production zeal may be
for allocation, offers new hope.
mocratization is beginning to kake it-
undermined by regional difficulties
Should action be carried out on the
self felt throughout the country, and
pertaining to meeting production costs.
basis of the poll, it would enable
there has been a gradual shift in peo-
Even if free competition is realized,
future newsprint allocation to be car-
ple's attention toward provincial areas,
it is believed that price control and a
ried out not by the arbitrary views of.
. especially with the advent of regional
fixed production system will have to
government officials or the Newsprint
self-government.
be continued, due to the reason that
Allocation Committee—even though
Thus, while the influence of provin-
present total output still falls far short
intended to be fair—but on the basis
cial papers has not as yet attained
of demand. Through an appropriate
of readers'opinion as to what papers
wide scope, it is felt that provincial
price control policy, it also may be
are .most appealing to them as to
readers eventually will be drawn more
able to forestall a decline in produc-
makeup and content, namely, their
and more toward supporting provincial
tion after the monopoly system is dis-
true value.
papers.
carded.,
While such future allocation neces-
As to new papers, these have been
It is possible, on the other hand, that
sarily will be restricted by the avail-
in existence for only two years since
the present 40 percent production situa-
ability of newsprint supply, the future
the Surrender, and it is felt that they
tion may disappear within the break-
promises a return to free competition
have not as yet had an opportunity
down of the monopoly, as factories will
among papers as that during pre-war
fully to demonstrate their ability to
not be able to stay in business unless
days.
the public.
they, make a greater effort.
At the same time, it means that
With the Survey's conclusions due to
This will mean that efforts toward
newspapers will be able to move in
receive serious consideration, it would
production recovery will be stimulated
the direction of realizing ultimate
be erroneous hastily to conclude that
with a corresponding boost in out-
liberation from restrictions on distribu-
the nation's three biggest papers are
put.
tion, which have been the greatest ob-
destined to monopolize national cir-
culation in the future.
C. Increase in Paper Size
stacles in the way of free competi-
tion.
As mentioned previously in the re-
7. Conclusion: Reconstruction
sults of the newspaper public opinion
Thus, it may be said that newspapers.
Policy
poll, there is no great dearth in the
in 1948 are definitely entering into a
number of copies issued by dailies.
period of constructive recovery after
A. Restoration of Production.
passing through the stages of confu-
Japan's present population is 78,088,104
While the present newsprint output
as against a daily newspaper circula-
sion and readjustment since the war's
and existing facilities amount to only
tion of 18,423,336 (Nov. 1947).
end.
28 per cent and 39 per cent, respective-
This means that there is one copy
As to newspaper sales, the coopera-
ly, of pre-war figures, general produc-
per 4.24 persons. Contrasted with
iive sales system organized during
tion recovery to a 50 percent level is
other Asiatic countries, Japan's news-
wartime has been eliminated, and a
expected to be attained within the next
paper diffusion rate is the highest of
new allocation method has been work-
several years through domestic effort
any.
ed out.
alone.
The amount of newsprint needed for
Although paper limitations continue
Japan's output of newsprint is re-
supplying papers of business organs,
to exist, a system for ensuring greatest
gistering a gradual increase despite ob-
political parties and weeklies, more-
possible freedom to newspapers is now
struction from numerous post-war eco-
over, is not exorbitant.
in the stage of development.
nomic deterrents.
Thus, the important step in the
Even were there to be little pos-
future is to attain a swift increase in
The Clearing House System
sibility of securing immediate ship-
the pages of daily newspapers and
ments of newsprint from abroad,
effective coverage of news.
Ed.—With a view to making news-
should some amount of paper for in-
SCAP already has emphasized this
paper readers subscribe to newspapers
dustrial use and high grade paper be
need and is offering strong assistance.
of their own choice, the Clearing House
imported, this would mean that such
Under such circumstanees, it is believ-
Society, a cooperative organ of all
facilities used for the latter purpose
ed that the issuance of four-page
newspapers throughout the country,
would be available for newsprint pro-
papers twice a week will become pos-
was established on October 28, 1948.
duction.
sible during 1948.
This was an epoch-making event in
B. Reorganization of P r o d u c t i o n
With an increase in domestic news-
Up to that time, a Japanese newspaper
the post-war Japanese press circles.
Facilities
tions can be achieved. This, how-
print output, regular four-page edi-
publisher had been unable to increase
The production of foreign-style paper
ever, constitutes the limit of Japan's
the circulation of his paper beyond the
in Japan is practically controlled by
newsprint production capacity. Re-
amount of newsprint allocated to his
the Oji Paper Mill Company, Ltd., and
storation of. papers to the 40-page a
company, even when his paper was
as to newsprint, this company has held
week basis as that which existed in
greatly demanded by readers. After
a complete monopoly until the cnd of
pre-war days will require additional
dcliberation for about one year, Japa-
the war.
newsprint imports from abroad.
nese newspaper circles reached the
The monopolistic setup, however,
conclusion that there must be an organ
was liquidated after the Surrender by
D. New Method of Newsprint
to meet the readers desire of chang-
the institution of the Anti-Trust Law
Allocation
ing their newspapers, in view of the
and the Industrial Deconcentration
While newsprint allocation
was
fact that many people were virtually
Law, which are expected to be realiz-
transferred from Government control
compelled to subscribe to newspapers

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
MATERIALS FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
they did not like. To materialize this
Allocation Committee in allocating
tain essential data for allocating news-
idea, the Clearing House Society began
newsprint.
print to his newspaper.
functioning from November 1, 1948.
Though it is not compulsory for a
It is still early to predict what pos-
Every three months, the Society will
the Newsprint Allocation Committee is
publisher to participate in the Society,
sible effects this new measure will
poll the readers' choice through its
of the opinion that if a publisher does
have, but it is believed certain that
office located in every prefecture and,
not join the Clearing House Society,
every phase of the Japanese press will
the results of this poll will be made
he cannot expect new allocations, be-
be greatly affected by this new meas-
the basis for a study by the Newsprint
cause the Committee is unable to ob-
ure.
Existing Condition's of Other Materials
By J. TANEDA
Since there are so many things re-
efforts to acquire non-designated ma-
Newspaper Ink
quired to make newspapers, such as
terials for the manufacture of news-
The monopolyof the Japan News-
flimsy shcets, pencils, types, lead plates,
papers.
paper Ink Company, Ltd., was broken
rotary presses, and ropes to bundle
Amid the transitional period of en-
down in July, 1947, into four manu-
up newspapers,, even experts may not
terprise adjustment necessitated by
facturing companies with seven facto-
be able to count them off hand. More
contracted reproduction, newspapers
ries thereby heralding free competi-
than 80 per cent of raw materials for
find it nccessary to operate on the
tion in ink production. All companies
newspaper ink, next to newsprint in
strength of materials to be bought in
are making every effort within their
importance, comes from foreign coun-
the blackmarket rather than from
power to improve ink quality and pro-
trics. Likewise, carbon black, turpen-
normal routes, but they actually can-
mote production technique; of the
tine and a series of other needed mater-
not afford to do that, for not only all
materials need for the manufacture of
ials are not available at home at pres-
commodities are growing expensive in
ink, mincral oil has been rationed re-
ent. Metal underneath, paper matrix,
the face of spiralling inflation and
gularly and there has been no ration
rubber blanket, textiles, photographic
material shortage, but also the sub-
delay.
sensitive materials, photo-engraving
scription rate of newspapers has been
As regards carbon black, the produc-
chemicals, zine plates, materials for
fixed at an unreasonably low level and
tion of Class A by Mitsubishi slumped
paste and ropes are short dte to re-
plays havoc with the managements.
to a little over 20 tons in the first term,
duced production arising from the last
Sandwiched between reduced produc-
thereby frustrating a plan for distribu-
tion and worsening inflation, news-
tion of all Class A carbon black. As
war.
paper publishers are as bad off as they
a substitute, such American-made
In January, 1947, the Government in-
were during the wartime with refer-
goods as Cosmos No. 40 and Continex
stituted regulations concerning the al-
ence to the supply of needed mater-
were distributed, but as they are made
location of designated productive
ials. The only hopes they entertain
of rubber, they are inferior in quality
materials, thereby trying to adjust the
now are the expansion of the scope of
and unfit for newspaper printing; their
balance between demand and supply.
America's all-to-Japan policy and the
results were about 50 per cent of Class
Consequently, a radical change was
return to normal of the national eco-
A goods. For this reason, the Asso-.
brought about in procedures for rations
nomy based on the subjugation of the
ciation has decided, to make an appli-
and distributions of materials needed
inflation. But present indications are
cation for imports of carbon black for
for the manufacture of newspapers.
that neither cannot be hoped for in
the manufacture of ink.
Business involving rations and appli-
the immediate future.
/Sources of turpentine are nearly
cations which had hitherto been hand-
If the basic policy of Japan's nation-
dried up and domestic products are not
led by the Japan Newspaper Publish-
al cconomy runs along the path of
available. As substitutes, ester-gums
ers and Editors' Association were taken
frec economy while all phases of pro-
made in Belgium was rationed 10 kilo-
over by the Materials Livelihood Bu-
duction remain within the sphere of
grams per newspaper office, but the
reau of the Commerce-Industry Minis-
planned economy, the gap between de-
supply is too small for the require-
try, although materials allocation ad-
mand and supply inevitably will widen
ment of 28 kilograms a term. Since
justment officers of the Asahi, the
with the aggravation of the inflation.
American products are expected to
Yomiuri, the Mainichi and the Tokyo
In this conjunction, it must be men-
reach Japan in the middle of April,
Times participated in the allocation of
tioned how badly newspaper publish-
all consumers look forward to them.
newspaper materials on behalf of the
ers have to rely on the supply of legal-
Under the circumstances, however, the
membership of the Association.
ly-provided materials chiefly because
situation of carbon black and turpen-
This new system. brought about a
their souree of income, subscription
tine is deplorable.
The supply of drying vegetable oils
change in the character of the mater-
fees, has been fixed by law. For this
is gradually declining because edible
ials section of the Association in such
reason, the Materials Department of
oils and fats are turned into food.
a way as to operate as a liaison organ
the Association centers its activities on
this particular point to help in the
All consumers express misgiving over
between the authorities concerned and
a possible suspension of rations
the member newspapers; its main job
management of the members.
amounting to 22 kilograms a term.
is to prepare investigation reports and
But then how are the actual condi-
submit them to the authorities, al-
tions of the demand and supply of
Metal Underneath
though it still is required to make
materials required by newspapers?
- The supply of metal underneath to

=== Page 119 === (confidence 1.00)
38
MATERIALS FOR NEWSPAPER INDUSTRY
all war-damaged newspaper companies
for melting lead and for no other pur-
Photographic Sensitive Materials
virtually has been completed, although
poses. The newspaper companies, how-
Inasmuch as photographic sensitivé
there were times when the supply was
ever, barely have been able to meet
materials are on the list of free sales,
cut short because manufacturers, de-
their demand by getting supplies from
they are liable to be channeled into
signated for reparations, became de-
the local Commerce-Industry bureaus.
routes where profits are great. News-
pressed and uncertain of their future.
In September, 1947, however, the al-
paper publishers are suffering.serious-
But the Strike committee which an-
location of coal was assumed by the
ly from such blackmarketing deals.
nounced its policy of easing repara-
central authorities and the framework
Sources of film packs and dry plates
tions terms saved the manufacturers
of rations for newspapers was newly
virtually have been' dried up and
from their mental predicaments and
fixed. Newspapers are still supply-
Brownie seems to be the only one left
spurred them into vigorous activiiies.
short, however.
in the market. Though not sufficient,
But inasmuch as metal underneath and
printing paper is supplied at present.
zinc plates recently have been ex-
Leather Belts.
There is no clamor for' a shortage of
ported in large quantities, the domestic
Ration coupons of leather belts which
flash lamps since they have been
demand has been curbed and there are
are listed as one of the designated pro-
manufactured by the Tokyo Shibaura
no prospects for the future supply of
duction materials are issued in accord-
Manufacturing Company through the
these metals, although for the time
ance with applications made by news-
good offices of the Association.
being all newspaper companies are suf-
paper companies. During the war, im-
ficiently supplied. For this reason, the
Phot-Engraving Chemicals
ports of leather belts were stopped and
Materials Section has been negotiating
newspapers had to rely on a meagre
Among the goods whose supply has
with the authorities concerning the
domestic supply. Consequently they
improved are tar-goods, benzol. Pro-.
supply of requirements.
suffered from a serious shortage, but
duction of zinc-plate corrosive sul-
Wrapping Paper
this situation has hardly improved
phuric acid and hydrochloric appears
since the war's end inasmuch as there
proceeding smoothly, but that of nit-
All newspaper publishers have suf-
still remains a number of production
ric acid is still low. As for sulphuret-
fered from a dearth of wrapping paper
bottlenecks. More than that, the re-
ted soda, nothing can be said of its
for some time since no ration has been
storation of war-damaged publishing
future.
made thereof since the outbreak of the
companies, the installation of new
A small amount of both gelatine and
last war. In the first quarter of 1947,
machines and replacement of worn-out
glycerine for repair of printing rollers
however, they obtained a nominal
belts by new ones necessitate a con-
is rationed every term. The sulphate
amount. of roll paper after intensive
siderable quantity of supply, but they
of copper, alcohol, caustic soda, car-
negotiations with the aythorities. The
are not likely to be met easily.
bonate of cali, mica, and nitric acid are
quantity acquired is only a small frac-
supplied also and barely meet the de-
tion of the supply demanded by the
Thanks to G.H.Q., prospects have
mand, but other key materials are,
newspapers throughout the country.
become brighter for imports of leather
hard to get now and in the future
If the prevailing paper situation
belts and their supply is to be restored
since they are import items. A large
continues, there will be no sufficient
to normal by degrees. But there is
supply of iodine cannot be expected
ration of wrapping paper in the
no positive assurance for optimism in
in the face of supply shortage.
future.
this respect, either.
Electric Communication Instruments
Textiles
Rubber
Although newspaper publishing com-
goods are ordinarily not rationed as
Sail cloths, flannel, and other textile
use of rotary presses are supplied only
Rubber rollers and blankets for the
panies which are equipped with elect-
pancy between the official production
program and aciual output; Consum-
scheduled, bocause of a serious discre-
consumers are forced to obtain the rest
one-fifth of the absolute necessity pur-
suant to the official ration program,
erly were rationed materials directly
from the Communications Ministry,
ric communication instruments form-
ers receive virtually blank ration cou-
by themselves. But there are limits to
they have done so from the Economic
Stabilization Board since 1947. The
receive is extremely small. But
pons and the quantity they actually
their self-supply and hence efforts
Board has taken over the task of allo-
chances are slim that the situation of
solute requirements from the authori-
have been made to acquire the ab-
cating electric communication instru-
textile goods will improve in the near
ties. But in view of the fact that
ments.
future. Only strings used to tie print-
rubber rollers and blankets are im-
Electric Power Supply
ing types and spindle tapes are com-
ported from foreign countries, supply
paratively well supplied.
shortage is likely to continue.
The hitherto-unknown famine of
electricity power has hit newspaper
Ropes
Dry Mats
circles. To remove this difficulty, the
Ropes were rationed by the national
Association, backed by various news-
agricultural association which was
With the monthly supply of 20,000
papers in Tokyo, conducted negotia-
charged with allocation of all siraw-
pounds of materials, special paper
tions with the Economic Stabilization
manufactured goods, but with the dis-
manufacturing companies have been
Board, the Tokyo Commerce-Industry
solution of the organization in Novem-
able to turn out their quotas. The use
Bureau, the Electric Department of the
ber, 1947, the business was handed over
of smaller-sized dry mats resulted from
Commerce-Industry Ministry and ob-
to the prefectural governors.
the enforcement of the 17-column page
tained new concessions.
Under the circumstances, the ration
in spring, 1948, and producers are mak-
In the second quarter of the year
of ropes is being smoothly carried out
ing efforts to meet the new require-
1948, newspaper publishing companies
under the direct jurisdiction of pre-
ments.
which received a ration between 50
fectural governors.
Although there has been a slight
and 500 kilowatts are considered com-
decrease in production, it will be ade-
ing under the category of large-scale
Coal
quately tackled by various news-
industries and permitted to use elect-
By and large, coal rationed to news-
papers though their promotion of tech-
ric supply within the framework set
paper companies is meant to be used
niques.
by the Economic Stabilization Board.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
39
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING IN JAPAN
By KENJI NISHIBE
Advertisement Section Chief, The Japan Newspaper Publishers'
& Editors' Association
1. Newspaper As Advertising
however, that popular magazines, such
the above-mentioned count, there are
Medium
as "Shufu-no-Tomo" and "King,"
the following types of papers which
Throughout the world and in all
which in pre-war days sold over 1,000,-
publish one to two editions a week or
ages, people, other than those grouped
000 copies cach, have now been re-
about three to four times a month:
together in special organizations, have
stricted to a circulation of less than
1. Business papers (Those issued by
traditionally sought a medium, at ex-
50,000 copics, due to the enforcement
commercial, industrial, agricul-
pression which would enable them
of newsprint allocation controls over
tural and other such business
swiftly and inexpensively to communi-
both newspapers and periodicals.
organs for liaison purposes).
cate with the greatest number of peo-
Thus, there are now 247 kinds of
2.
Organ papers (Those issued by
ple in advertising their. business or
magazines, including those pertaining
public bodies, political parties,
commercial products.
to art, culture, religion, recreation and
labor unions and others).
The need for such a medium has
education. With a single magazine
3.
Special papers (Those issued for
grown steadily with the advancement
averaging a monthly output of 15,000
education, students, women, chil-
of publicity and advertising technique
copies, these magazines taken together
dren, youths or for motion pic-
from primitive verbal communication,
are publishing about 3,000,000 copies a
ture establishments or theaters).
whose chief drawback was inaccuracy
month.
A single issue of all of these special
and error in relaying information.
Their income from advertisements
classes of papers taken together
The effectiveness and nature of such
runs to around 6,500,000 yen a month.
amounts to about 3,500,000 copies. This
means of expression have served also
These magazines constitute a worthy
means that the total output of all
as a barometer for judging the stand-
competitor to newspapers in advertis-
dailies or weeklies that can be describ-
ard of civilization attained by their
ing, but their meagerness of pages per
ed as newspapers runs to over 20,000,-
users.
copy, about 50 to 60 pages, is their
000 copies daily.
In this connection, it may well be
chief weakness.
While it is difficult clearly to gauge
said that newspapers today are the
As an advertising medium, their 12
the volume of advertising of these non-
most common and popular medium for
editions a year cannot hope to sur-
member weeklies, they may be esti-
advertising purposes.
pass the income from advertising
mated to account for approximately
As contrasted with the United
derived by newspapers which publish
3,000,000 yen worth of advertisements.
States, where radio advertising is
every day throughout the year.
Far obtaining a picture of advertis-
widely used, no commercial radio sta-
Moreover, whereas monthly maga-
ing carried on by ordinary papers, it
tions exist in Japan. Nor can such
zines are experiencing difficulty even
may be convenient simply to ignore
commercial radio advertising be real-
in meeting their monthly deadline due
them and to discuss the 123 newspa-
ized at present, as Japan's radio opera-
to paper and printing troubles, news-
pers affiliated with the Japan News-
tion is under a government monopoly
papers, from their special position of
paper Publishers'& Editors' Associa-
system, which permits no outside com-
handling daily news, are not hindered
tion, whose circulation extends to 18,-
petition.
by such factors.
000,000 copics daily and whose monthly
From the technical standpoint, diffi-
Newspapers are daily turning out a
income from advertising totals 80,000,-
culties, moreover, lie in the way of
total of 18,000,000 copies and present-
000 yen (August, 1947).
realizing radio advertising in Japan.
ing 80,000,000 yen worth of advertise-
This is illustrated in the unsuecessful
ments monthly to the public along
2. Inflation and Advertisement
attempt made in 1946 by a group of
with ordinary news. The figures are
Rates
civilian industrialists.
as of August, 1947.
Due to the institution of newsprint
These business men pooled their
As other phases of newspaper opera-
allocation, there has been no appre-
capital with the aim of realizing com-
tion are slated to be explained by
ciable change during the past two
mercial radio advertising but eventual-
other writers, I would like to empha-
years in the number of cqpies issued
ly were compelled to give up their
size the following major points, which
by papers which began operating from
idea when confronted with the need
have a bearing on advertising and fall
the Meiji and Taisho eras.
of constructing huge facilities securing
within the scope of my explanation.
Since the Surrender, on the other
highly-trained experts and a lack of
The Japan Newspaper Publishers'
hand, there has been a sharp increase
would-be advertisers.
& Editors' Association (juridical per-
in newspapers. These came into exist-
While a few newspapers and private
son) has a membership of 123 dailies,
ence as a sequel to GHQ's action liqui-
advertising firms are resorting to the
excluding broadcasting and news agen-
dating past controls on freedom of
use of clectric bill-boards, cinema
cies, and 11 weeklies, (November,
speech, and are now operating on
slides and sidewalk broadcasting, their
1948).
newsprint allocation.
scale of advertising is as yet extremely
These papers have a total cireula-
As the regional characteristics of
insignificant from a popular stand-
tion of approximately 18,000,000 copies
daily papers have undergone a con-
'point.
and constitute 98 per cent of the na-
siderable change since the Surrender,
On the other hand, magazines can
tion's total dailies.
I believe it would be clearer to con-
be said to be one of the best advertis-
Of newspapers other than member
sider such dailies under four categories
ing mediums. The drawback here is,
papers which have been excluded from
(October, 1947).

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
40
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
1.
Five central papers—7,330,000
For evening papers, there are other
As shown by the statistics, the
copies (Over 1,000,000 copies per
figures.
amount of money expended in news-
paper).
While
newsprint allocation may
paper advertising during the three year
2.
Five provincial papers—3,000,000
undergo a change in the future in
period ran from 3,000,000 yen monthly
copies (Over 500,000 copies per
keeping with the results of the readers
in 1945 to 80,000,000 yen in 1947.
paper).
public opinion poll, the present figures
The increase is illustrated in the
3.
Economic papers and 45 minor
will prevail until any revision is made.
following figures:
As to sum expended by the public
regional papers—4,170,000 copies
1) In July, 1945, revenue from
in newspaper advertising, the follow-
(From 10.000 to 400 000 còpies
newspaper advertisements re-
ing chart best illustrates the trend
paper).
gistered 1,030,000 yen for 12,600,-
over the past three years.
4.
Fifty-nine new papers-3,150,000
000 copies circulated by 41 pa-
That advertising rates have gone up
copies (Published after the Sur-
pers.
enormously despite on conspicuous in-
render).
2)
In July, 1946, revenue from
crease in circulation is attributable
newspaper advertisements
These papers, follow the practice
chiefly to the effects of spiraling infla-
mounted to 25,210,000 yen for
generally of distributing their copies
tion and a 90 per cent reduction in
15,610,000 copies circulated by
through a cooperative sales-payment
paper size to two pages as compared
73 newspapers.
system.
to around 1939.
As 1,700,000, or 10 per cent, of the
The following survey confines itself
3)
In July, 1947, revenue from
total circulation is turned over to
to 12 representative papers in central
newspaper advertisements rose
to 77,450,000 yen for 17,000,000
street sales, 15,300.000 copies of two-
consumer zones, as the trend of other
copies circulated by 113 papers.
page papers are delivered to indivi-
provincial papers has been of a similar
4)
In December, 1947, revenue
dual households during the morning.
nature.
from newspaper advertisements
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISEMENT RATES
amounted to 100,010,000 yen for
(Per unit advertisement for 16-column ordinary page;
17,000,000 copies circulated by
17-column page after 1948)
113papers.
Name of Paper
April, 1944
May. 1945
Nov.. 1945
Feb., 1016
yen
yen
yen
yen
During the period from. January to
Tokyo Asahi
13.65
27.50
100.00
200.00
December, 1947, the total income of
Chubu Nippon
11.00
18.00
60.00
130.00
all of the Association papers, number-
Nishi Nihon
9.00
12.00
34.00
88.00
ing 123, reached the figure of·140,000,-
Tokyo.
6.20
13.00
60.00
120.00
Hokkaido (Sapporo)
3.70
13.00
34.00
75.00
000 yen. Since 90 per cent of the ad-
Nihon Keizai
3.40
16.00
90.00
120.00
vertisements were secured through ad-
Chugoku
4.50
12.00
20.50
48.00
vertising agencies, which claim a ser-
Godo
4.00
10.60
16.50
42.00
vice charge of 20 per cent, the actual
Fukui
1.20
9.00
8.00
21.00
carnings of these papers through ad-
Wakayama
.70
6.00
8.00
12.00
vertisements attained 950,000,000 yen.
Tokyo Times (Founded—March 7. 1946)
65.00
The rise in advertising cost since the
Nagoya Times (Founded--June 1, 1946)
46.00
period under review has shown no
Average
signs of abatement.
Name of Paper
Sept.. 1916
Nov.. 1947
March. 1918
Circulation
yen
yen
yen
In November, 1947,
moreover,
Tokyo Asahi
200.00*
200.00*
abolishment of controls on advertising
340.00
660.00
1,000.00
1,354,907
rates led to a simultaneous announce-
Chubu Nippon
135.00*
200.00*
230.00
450.00
700.00
760,992
ment by the papers to raise their ad-
Nishi Ninon
100.00
150.00*
vertisement rate by an average of 50
170.00
330.00
600.00
444,364
per cent.
Tokyo
130.00*
150.00*
This move compelled advertisers,
230.00
450.00
700.00
384,254
who already were experieneing grow-
Hokkaido (Sapporo)
85.00*
120.00*
ing business difficulties from a decline
145.00
185.00
400.00
356,891
in purchasing power resulting from
Nihon Keizai
165.00*
165.00*
inflation and shortages in production,
270.00
550.00
550.00
277,404
to foot an advertisement budget aggre-
Chugoku
51.00*
84.00*
80.00
170.00
280.00
171,946
gating 130,000,000 yen a month.
Godo
45.00*
78.00*
Furthermore, in March, 1948, papers
70.00
150.00
160.00
159,121
stepped up their advertisement rates
Fukui
36.00*
another some 50 per cent. Papers like
23.00
70.00
120.00
37,629
the Asahi, Mainichi and Yomiuri,
Wakayama
12.00*
12.00*
which' have a circulation of around
26.00
60.00
60.00
27,961
1,500,000, thereby charged a rate of
Tokyo Times
60.00*
90.00*
100.00
200.00
330.00
174,077
about 1,200 to 1,350 yen for a single
Nagoya Times
30.00*
40.00*
insertion of a centimetre column size.
55.00
100.00
130.00
72,195
The elevation approximated a 130 fold
Note: 1.
20—30 per cent special rate (imposed on special insertions other than
increase over that of 1933 and 40 fold
monthiy contracts) from after March. 1947. Asterisks (*) denotes
increase during the one year since the
2.
Advertisement Tax (instituted April 1. 1942; abolished on August 30.
special rate.
Surrender.
1946). Tax excluced in above figures.
The rate for a single advertisement
3.
tions made in space other than that allotted to advertisements) from
Double charge foi insertion amidst news artieles (imposed on inser-
amounting to one centimetre by one-
around 1944.
seventeenth of a page size simultane-
4.
Page size (52 centimeters long by 38.5 centimeters wide)-one centi-
meter of advertisement equalling a size 5a 17 centimeter long by
ously carried on an ordinary page of
centimeter wide.
123 association papers with a total

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
网
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
daily circulation of 17,000,000 copies
for all papers, as illustrated in the
able to increase their makeup size
cost 26,400 yen in March, 1947.
following chronological listing:
from 16 columns to 17 columns per
Newspapers have been compelled to
1.)
1941; total pages morning and
page as a sequel to successful experi
fall back on raising advertising charges
evening—six; monthly subscrip-
ments with type and printing. This
for covering mounting miscellaneous
tion—1.20 yen.
enabled them to devote another column
expenses with which they have not
2)
1943; total pages morning and
for both news and advertising with a
been able to cope simply through in-
evening—six; monthly subscrip-
resultant increase in income.
come from subscription rates, which
tion—1.30 yen:
About 1930, when 12-page papers
have increased only 30 times since
3)
April, 1944; total pages morning
prevailed, the percentage of advertise-
1939 and now cannot be expected to
only—four; monthly subscrip-
ment income was from 120 to 200. on
be elevated to any greater extent with
tion—1.50 yen.
the basis of 100 for sales income. The
the imposition of official rates.
(The morning and evening deli-
percentage of income from advertise-
very system was limited to only
ment now has dropped to not more
3. Sales and Advertisements
morning service, and all evening
than 30 per cent.
Around 1935, prior to the Man-
papers were banned with the ex-
Provincial papers and new papers
churian Incident and during Japan's
ception of only two orthodox
which have a small circulation, how-
deflationary period, papers in general
evening papers throughout the
ever, are still continuing to rely
delivered a morning edition of eight
country.)
heavily on advertisement income to
pages and an evening edition of four
4)
November, 1944; total morning
cover their operational costs.
pages to households at a subscription
pages—two; monthly subscrip-
These papers are devoting about 35
rate of one yen per month. Pages fre-
tion—1.50 yen.
per cent of their space to advertise-
quently were increased, and the Asahi,
5)
July 1945; total morning pages—
ments, and some have an income from
for instance, set a record of 36 pages.
two; monthly subscription—2.70
advertisement ranging from 40 to 70
Among provincial papers, there were
yen.
per cent of their sales revenue.
some which charged only 80 sen a
6)
February, 1946; total morning
In 1947, the total annual income of
month.
pages—two; monthly subscrip-
Association member papers from sales
With mounting competition, papers,
tion—5 yen.
amounted to 1,943,000,000 yen, and
in their determination to secure sub-
7)
August, 1946; total
morning
their income from advertisements ag-
scribers, even resorted to offering pots.
pages—two; monthly
subscrip-
gregated some 950,000,000 yen.
tion—8 yen.
pans and buckets as inducements to
3. Management and Advertisement
new subscribers, and cinema and
8)
May, 1947; total morning pages
—two; monthly subscription—
Income
theater tickets, magazines and other
premiums to steady customers.
12.50 yen.
Let us now consider the percentage
9)
October, 1947; total morning
of advertising income derived by the
This heated competition for sub-
pages—two; monthly subscrip-
following classes of papers, with the
scribers was prompted from the fact
tion—20 yen.
actual total income from advertise-
that increased circulation would serve
10)
October, 1948; total morning
ment amounting to 77,400,000 yen for
also to promote newspaper advertising
pages—two (four once a weck);
July, 1947, secured by 113 dailies, being
business.
monthly subscription—44.75 yen.
taken as 100:
The outcome was that papers of
(Although new papers sprang up
1) Papers with a circulation of
large organizations and wealth began
with the end of the war in 1945,
over 1,000,000 copies—five (total
gradually to win over the majority of
these papers were compelled to
circulation—7,320,000); 26.5 per
newspaper readers, and such papers
maintain two-page size and the
cent; advertisement income per
as the Jiji Shimpo, Hochi, Kokumin,
same subseription rate charged
single copy—2.80 yen.
Manchoho and Yamato, which were
by already existing papers,
2)
Papers with a circulation of over
wellknown from the Meiji Era, finally
under the Price Control Ordin-
500,000copies—five (total circu-
were foreed into mergers or thrown
ance.)
lation—3,007,000); 14.7 per cent;
out of business.
The reduction in paper size from a
advertisement income per single
In the light of these circumstances,
it was not uncommon for some small
total of 12 pages before 1940 to the
copy--3.80 yen.
present two, seriously affected the in-
3)
Economic papers—six (total cir-
provincial papers to have been com-
pelled to solicit the support of Zai-
come of newspapers from advertise-
culation—664,000); 10.3 per cent;
batsu clements or political parties in
ments.
advertisement income per single
As previously mentioncd, the huge
copy—12 yen.
order to remain in existence.
increase in advertising rates was attri-
4)
Tokyo and Osaka evening papers
Around 1940, after this sales war
butable not only to the effects of infla-
—two (total circulation—799,-
had continued for about a decade, mili-
tion but also the loss in advertising
000); 6.8 per cent; advertisement
tary leaders and bureaucrats in power
space.
income per single copy—6.55 yen.
instituted newspaper control, and over
Around 1930, the Asahi, Mainichi
5)
Provincial papers with a circula-
3,000 dailies in Japan were readjusted
and the Yomiuri—the "Big Three"—,
tion over 50,000—-23 (total cir-
or merged into only 54.
for instance, normally handled 140,000
culation—2,170,000); 15.6 per
At the sametime, sales organs man-
centimetres of advertising per month.
cent; advertisement income, per
aged independently by individual pa-
In 1944, after the institution of two-.
single copy—5.54 yen.
pers were also amalgamated into the
page papers, the average monthly ad-
6)
Provincial papers with a circula-
present cooperative system, which is
vertising space of these papers fell to
tion—less than 50,000—15 (total
entrusted with the work of distribut-
8,000 centimetres or over 90 per cent.
circulation—537,000); 4.1 per
ing papers, collecting subscription rates
At present, the ratio of news space
cent; advertisement income per
and accounting for sales.
and advertisement space is about 75
copy—5.97 yen.
Such developments led also to re-
per cent for news and 25 per cent for
7)
New papers founded after the
strictions governing paper size and the
advertisement.
Surrender—57 (total circulation
imposition of fixed subscription rates
In March, 1948, major papers were
—315,000); 22 per cent; adver-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
42
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
velop along fair and healthy stand-
tisement income per copy—5.42
It is the practice of newspapers to
yen.
classify ads into two types. These are
ards. Their commission is about 20
The above list shows that circula-
advertisements which are placed in
per cent.
Advertisers and newspapers have set
areas normally reserved for advertise-
tion and per unit advertising income
ments. The others are those which are
up organizations for preventing un-
varied without any fixed standard but
boxed amidst news articles. The latter
scrupulous and unfair practices by
that advertising rates are smaller for
generally are of a column by 7 centi-
those who may seek to impair public
papers with large circulation, as is na-
metres or 2 column by 3.5 centimeters
welfare by misusing democratic prin-
tural, owing to diminishing production
size. These special advertisements
ciples.
cost.
According to this, it means that of
generally cost twice as much as ordi-
mittee composed of advertising repre-
The afore-mentioned special com-
a monthly subscription rate of 12.50
nary ones.
From 1930 until around 1940, before
sentatives of all Association papers in
yen, 3.50 yen went to sales organs for
the outbreak of the Pacific War, phar-
this connection has undertaken re-
delivery costs, leaving 9 yen as the
maceuticals, cosmetics, clothing, food,
search and survey work and brought
actual income from subscription.
books and guides took over the major
the code of advertising ethics used by
Assuming that the average advertise-
the New York Times to the attention
advertising space.
ment income from a monthly subscrip-
of newspapers with the object of in-
These types of advertisements, how-
tion amounts to 4.37 yen, it means that
ducing them to abide with clean and
ever, have sharply decreased since the
a daily in Japan as of the month of
fair advertising practices.
July, 1947, earned a total income of
Surrender owing to postwar economic
Actual results achieved so far have
difficulties. On the other hand, ads
13.37 yen from both advertisement and
proved small, and the special commit-
of motion pictures, books, classified
subscription for a single subscripted
tee in December, 1947, adopted the
ads and government notices have in-
copy.
following resolution with reference to
creased.
In October of the same year, the
Newspapers generally have created
advertising conducted by Association
actual income from the sale of a daily
sales promotion and advertisements
papers. The text is as follows:
copy for a month became 15 yen, as
sections within their business depart-
Purification of Newspaper
subscription was raised to 20 yen and
ments, but is extremely rare for such
Advertisements
delivery cost to 5 yen.
advertisement sections, excepting pro-
With the approximately 50 per cent
vincial papers, to do business directly
Member papers of the Japan News-
increase in advertising rates as a
with advertisers.
paper Publishers' & Editors' Associa-
sequel to the frecing of controls on
This is because newspapers today
tion, in handling advertisements, shall
advertisement rates in November, the
have no need for canvassing actively
always seek to prevent any abuse of
average advertisement incom per daily
for advertisements as they did in pre-
public interest. Upholding sincerity,
copy for a month shot up to 6.43 yen.
war days when paper availability and
truth and dignity, they shall regard
The total actual ineome from subserip-
an abundance of manufactured com-
purification of advertisements to be
tion and advertising for a month be-
modities for advertising led to stiff
the responsibility of each and every
came 21.43 yen.
competition among papers to increase
paper and shall strive to elevate the
cultural standard of advertising in
Under such circumstances, the total
their income.
monthly income of these papers from
The above-mentioned types of ad-
keeping with the Canons of Journalism.
advertisements, which comprised from
vertisement solicitations are now hand-
It was shortly after this resolution
20 to 30 per cent of the space of
led by advertising agencies in accord-
that a sensational infant mass murder
two-page papers, aggregated around
ance with contracts concluded between
incident involving a maternity home
100,000,000 yen. This income, more-
them and newspaper advertisements
in Tokyo was brought to light. The
over, served to cover from 30 to 70
seetions.
hospital in question had published
per cent of newspaper costs.
During wartime, advertising organi-
advertisements in a paper offering that
Let us now consider the types of
zations were limited to 12 companies
it would care for unwanted infants
advertisements handled by newspapers
through voluntary action on their part.
until parents could be, found for them.
—an important factor in newspaper
After the Surrender, however, a spe-
Through the use of such advertise-
management. Figures relative to the
cial committee created by the Japan
ments, the hospital acquired some 100
kinds of commercial advertisements
Newspaper Publishers' & Editors' As-
children, receiving a large sum of
handled by 55 leading papers in 1947
sociation and composed of advertise-
money as fee. After receiving these
are as follows:
ment section representatives of all
babies, however, the hospital contri-
Type
Percentage
papers has lifted this voluntary restric-
buted to the death of the majority of
Pharmaceuticals
9.15
tion and recognized 25 additional ad-
its charges by failing to feed them
Cosmetics
1.71
vertising companies.
properly.
Books and publications
9.80
With the enforcement of the Anti-
Here was a glaring instance of un-
Foods
Machinery, etc.
Clothing ..
10.62
2.11
1.18
Trust Law in July, 1947, advertising
business was thrown open to anyone,
and since then, the number of adver-
ments. The newspaper which carried
scrupulous use of newspaper advertise-
the hospital's ads consequently became
Sundry goods .
11.14
tising firms has increased to over 200.
the target of strong criticism from
Insurance and financial
2.91
Principal business, however, is being
many quarters. The newspaper claim-
Government notices
Account notices.
0.52
1.63
transacted by 20 major companies.
Japan's advertising agencies are all.
the ads rested with the advertising
ed, however, that the responsibility for
Motion picture and theaters 15.75
small-scaled and are inadequate for
agency which obtained it. The latter
Large Employment Ads. ....
4.12
carrying out surveys. Most of them
contended that the responsibility was
Others ....
24.83
are without a sizable capital, How-
that of the newspaper, as newspapers
Classified ads.
(personals,
ever, as they are now mushrooming
alone have the right to accept or re-
rentals, etc.)
4.53
leading. advertisers and newspapers
forth without any apparent limit, both
ject ads.
Other than this sensational case,
Total
.100
are sincerely hoping that they will de-
there is no doubt that there has been

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
an increase in ads catering to erotic-
vertising in Japan is akin to uncon-
4.
With advertising agencies handl-
ism and those of a vague, misguided
trolled fraud."
ing 90 per cent of the newspaper
nature.
With the elimination of all official
advertisement charges and aver-
controls on advertising, fears are be-
aging a commission of 18 per
4. Transactions Relative to
ing felt that unrestricted rates may
cent, their share is estimated at
Advertisements
again lead to conditions as that which
52,300,000 yen.
Advertising rates have been infu-
existed in the past.
Year 1947
enced for approximately eight years by
The Japan Newspaper Publishers'
1.
Average number of association
the Government's price control policy,
& Editors' Association feels in this
papers—115.
and I have already shown that these
respect that the best way for curbing
2.
Average total circulation of
rates have been rising steadily as the
such a trend would be to realize frank
dailies throughout the year—
result of postwar inflation.
disclosure of true circulation figures
17,536,104 copies.
During the eight-year period, before
by general use of the A.B.C. system
3.
Total revenue from advertise-
and in the course of the war, advertis-
employed in the United States. It is
ments—over 1,150,000,000 yen.
ing rates were drawn up on the basis of.
now taking steps in this direction.
4.
With advertising agencies receiv-
the following four points:
By utilizing such a method, the As-
ing 80 per cent of the newspaper
sociation believes that both advertisers
1) Number of copies in circulation;
advertisement charges and de-
and advertising agencies will be able
2) cost-price as judged from business
ducting 18 per cent (direct trans-
to secure vital information, which in
management; 3) actual price up until
actions by individual papers in-
turn would contribute to the estab-
then, and 4) economic conditions.
creased one per cent over the
lishment of rates on the basis of news-
Before this, namely, up until 1940,
previous year), or 165,600,000 yen
there was a marked absence of a logi-
paper circulation.
in commission, the actual income
In this connection, it should be noted
cal system with relation to advertis-
of newspapers from advertise-
that papers in Japan are now looking
ing charges. There was a huge gap
ments increased by 2.9 times
forward eagerly to obtaining advertise-
between announced and actual trans-
over the previous year.
ments from foreign firms with the re-
action rates.
sumption of private foreign trade.
In the last half of 1947, actual aver-
Advertisers, hence, strove their ut-
age per unit monthly advertising in-
most to secure the lowest possible
For foreign advertisers, it may prove
come of the member papers rose to
to their interest and welfare to seek
other hand, struggled to secure as
rates.
Advertising agencies, on the
the services of the Japan Newspaper
9.47yen.
For reference, the following figures
many advertisement contracts as pos-
Publishers' & Editors' Association for
represent total advertisement and pub-
sible. These, the latter would dump
securing pertinent information con-
licity expenses, during 1946.
upon newspapers in return for favor-
Japan.
cerning
newspaper advertising in
1. Papers affiliated with the Asso-
able terms. Newspapers also spent
ciation—1,150,000,000 yen.
huge canvassing funds to secure ad-
The following figures denote the cir-
2. Non-affiliated papers—50,000,000
culation (based on paper allocation)
vertisements.
There was no fixed stable price, and
and advertisement income of the As-
3.
Monthly
yen (est.)
magazines—80,000,000
rates, low or high, depended simply
sociation papers.
yen (est.)
on the time and attendant conditions.
Year 1946
4.
Outdoor advertising—100,000,000
The rough-and-tumble situation which
1.
Number of Association papers—
yen, including 35 per cent tax.
prevailed at the time is summed up
82.
5.
Poster display—60,000,000 yen,
precisely by a statement made by an
2.
Average total circulation of
including 35 per cent'tax.
American, who managed a provincial
dailies throughout the year—
6.
Others (cinema slides, sidewalk
daily and also engaged in newspaper
15,834,369 copics.
broadcasting,
ctc.)—20,000,000
advertising. His remark on giving up
3.
Total revenue from ad ertise-
yen, including 10 per cent tax.
business and leaving Japan was: "Ad-
ments—375,000,000yen.
Total—1,460,000,000 yen.
THE NEWSPAPER COOPERATE DISTRIBUTION
ASSOCIATION, ITS PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE
By DAIZO NAGAI
Managing Director of the Association
1. The Status Quo
panies freely can join or withdraw
of the total output of the nation's news-
from this Association, 110 of the na-
papers.
The Newspaper Cooperative Distri-
tion's 149 dailies have become its mem-
As executive organs of this Associa-
bution Association is a juridical per-
bers chiefly because the membership
tion function the central headquarters
son inaugurated on December 1, 1946,
offers convenience and opportunity to
in Tokyo and nine other zonal organs,
and designed to enforce cooperative
rationalize the management of news-
the Tokyo Metropolitan bureau in
distribution in a rational way of news-
paper publishing; the number of daily
Tokyo, the Kanto Bureau in Tokyo, the
papers issued by the members. Al-
copies handled by the Association
Tohoku Bureau in Sendai, the Hokkaido
though newspaper publishing com-
amounts to 17,800,000, or 97 per cent
bureau in Sapporo, the Chubu bureau

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
44
NEWSPAPER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
in Nagoya, the Hokuriku bureau in
2. General History
were independent of its member news
Kanazawa, the Kinki bureau in Osaka,
The system of newspaper distribu-
papers; through contracts with distri-
the Chugoku and Shikoku bureau in
tion in this country formerly followed
buting agencies concerning bolstered
Fukuoka. Under these bureaus operate
the pattern created by necessity by
controls, it unified the nation's coopera-
59 prefectural offices in accordance
various newspaper publishing com-
tive newspaper distribution system.
withtheir constitution.
panies; they established their own
The Rationing Association continued
Main businesses provided for in the
distributing agencies in localities and
to operate for two and a half years,
constitution are as follows:
enforced the exclusive distribution
but with the intensification of open
1. Cooperative distribution of news-
system based on free contracts. This
hostilities, the Government found it
system, however, gave rise to keen
feasible to change its press policy and
papers issued by the member publish-
competition among various publishers,
disbanded the Japan Newspapers As-
ing companies.
on the one hand, and among their
sociation following a revision of the
2. Various investigations and liaison
distributing agencies, on the other, as
newspaper publishing business ordi-
work in general required to carry on
well as to extreme circulation build-
nance in February, 1945. The result
cooperative distribution of newspapers.
ing contests which resulted in a horri-
was that the Rationing Association
3. Supply of materials to the news-
ble waste of. labor and materials.
had to bow to this change in the situa-
paper distributing agencies and their
Thus this system finally brought about
tion and the Japan Newspapers Cor-
employes.
unfair sales competition among deal-
poration (March 1, 1945, to September
4. Liaison work concerning trans-
crs. But developments of the Sino-
30, 1945) was organized as the third
portation involving cooperative distri-
Japanese Incident in 1941 not only re-
cooperative sales agency under the
bution of newspapers.
stricted the production of newsprint
guidance of the Information Bureau.
and other necessary materials but also
This corporation took over from the
To carry on the above-mentioned
forced economy in labor as well. As
Japan Newspapers Association busi-
business, this Association works as the
a result, the newspaper publishers
ness concerning adjustments of adver-
mediant between the member news-
were compelled to initiate a system
tisements, management, newspaper
paper publishing companics and news-
by which to climinate unfair compe-
publishing materials of its members
paper: distributing agencies in cities,
tition. Through the good offices of the
and carried on these undertakings to-
towns and villages in coneluding con-
Government, therefore, they concluded
gether with cooperative newspaper
tracts concerning sales of their news-
an agreement for the establishment of
distribution, to which it had an exclu-
papers. In other words, this Associa-
common distributing ageneies follow-
sive right.
tion first purchases by contract news-
ing the dissolution of their exclusive
With the termination of the Pacific
papers issued by its members and then
agencies that had existed in 'cities,
War on August 15, 1945, however, the
sells them to the contracting distribut-
towns and villages for some time past.
corporation climinated wartime con-
ing agencies as a matter of procedure.
This cleared the way for the system
trols and cleared the way for the es-
But this Association never participates
of cooperative distribution.
tablishment of an autonomous coopera-
in actual sales or distributions of news-
The following explains the first col-
tive distribution organ, the Japan
papers; it only collects money from
lective sales system:
Newspapers League, the fourth of its
the nation-wide distributing agencies
A. The Newspaper Cooperative
kind. (from October 1, 1945, to Nov-
and hands it over to its members. For
Distribution Association (December 1.
enmber 30, 1946)
this reason, this Association does not
The league was born not only to
1941, to October 31, 1942.)
concern itself with actual transporta-
wipe off all wartime colors following
This Association which abolished the
tion or delivery and receipt of news-
decades-long free sales system estab-
the war's end but also to promote the
papers or with attempts to increaso
healthy develepment of the press in
lished an epoch-making cooperative
and decrease circulation, for such
distribution system. But the Pacific
a peaceful country, thereby proposing
transactions are handled directly by
War that broke out shoitly served to
to rationalize the distribution news-
its members and their distributing
bolster controls over various economic
papers in the hands of an autonomous
agencies.
body.
organizations and the promulgation of
The principal function of this As-
Imperial ordinance concerning news-
Subsequently, as the Japan News-
sociation, therefore, can be said to
paper publishing business led to the
paper Publishers and Editors Associa-
carry out a cooperative collection of
institution of a control organ. the
tion was organized at the end of 1946,
money from the distributing agencies,
Japan Newspapers Association. in Feb-
it took over all business directly con-
but that does not tell the whole story.
ruary, 1942. Controls were applied to
cerningthe publication of newspapers
For, by acting as the party directly
the newspaper cooperative distribution
which had been handled by the cor-
concerned with making contracts con-
organ, too, thereby forcing a revision
poration and all undertakings atten-
cerning sales of newspapers issued by
of the existing autonomous structure.
dant on cooperative newspapers sales
its members, this Association serves
Consequently, the Japan Newspaper
have been entrusted to the Newspaper
to maintain the system of cooperative
Rationing Association (from November
Cooperative Distribution League which
distribution of newspapers, thereby
1, 1942, to February 30. 1945), was
was organized on December 1, 1946, as
preventing the emergence of unfair
established as the second cooperative
an autonomous mutual body.
competition among its members as
distribution ageney to enforce the dis-
well as rationalizing the management
tribution policy as directed by the pre-
3. The Future
of its members.
sident of the Japan Newspapers Asso-
As already stated, the Cooperative
Expenditure for the' operation of this
ciation on the basis of newspaper con-
Distribution League is a voluntary co-
Association, however, is appropriated
trol regulations.
operative and autonomous organ free
by its members in accordance with the
The Rationing Association was an
from official controls. A further scru-
number of their subscriptions; this As-
official control organ. as it were, which
tiny reveals that the League is a party
sociation does not get profits accruing
charged the nation's newspaper pub-
to the newspaper cooperative distri-
from sales of newspapers, although it
lishers with the responsibility of be-
bution contracts, and that it in a way
is responsible in name for purchase
coming its members. The organiza-
represents the common interests of its
and sale of newspapers.
tion and operation of the association
member newspapers and the distribut-

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
SHOP TALK
ing agency. For this reason, a reor-
may be able to wor: out a solution
with newspaper publishing conpanies.
ganization of the League in accordance
by the spring of 1948.
But in view of the fact that under
with the Economic Decentralization
A new plan is likely to provide that
the existing economic circumstances
Law appears inevitable in the near
various newspaper publishers and dis-
the production of newsprint is restrict-
future.
tributing agencies will directly con-
ed in every possible way, there is little
For a few decades since the incep-
clude contracts to the exclusion of the
likelihood that such keen competition
tion of the press, house-to-house deli-
League, thereby virtually forcing the
as witnessed in pre-war days will crop
very has been made to subscribers. Of
latter to disband. As for newspaper
up even if a reorganization plan that
the 17,800,000 subseriptions handled by
delivery agencies, there may have been
admits of free competition should be
the Leaguc, 92 per cent, or 16,340,000
some change in their business trans-
implemented.
copies are being delivered directly to
actions due to wartime and post-war
As long as the current situation con-
the subscribers. Accordingly, the im-
developments but they have continued
tinues, we believe that it is the best
pending reorganization plan must ex-
to exercise a virtual monopoly over
to set up an organization that permits
clude the pessibility that the loss of
newspaper delivery sinee 1941 when
the delivery to the subscribers of the
the nueleus of the cooperative distri-
the newspaper cooperative distribution
type of newspaper they want in a most
bution system gives rise to confusion
system came into being. It is recom-
convenient way even after the reor-
in house-to-house delivery of news-
mended therefore that they be deve-
ganization plan materializes and. this
papers. Conscious of this possibility,
loped into a structure capable of carry-
would be possible when the coopera-
various newspapers have been studying
ing on free competition by some means
tive distribution system is maintained
the reorganization issue seriously and
when they enter into direet contracts
in general.
SHOP TALK OF NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING
IN JAPAN
By CHUGO KOITO
In 1929 when liberalism was rising
as the Japanese habits of news and
scribbled news into metal; the num-
in various aspects of national life in
editoria! writing lest they should fall
ber of Chinese characters for news-
Japan, M. D. Konnedy, a British jour-
back on the old order that is associat-
paper use has been slashed to 1,850
nalist, made a flattering comment on
ed with war and aggression.
from approximately 4,000 although an
the Japanese press. He said:
Thus placed under Allied tutelage
occasional appearance of difficult Chi-
The vernacular press of Japan can
and self-discipline, Japanese editors in
nese and Japanese proper nouns makes
never be accused of lacking initia-
some cases find themselves uneertain
it necessary to keep more characters
tive or "push." In organization. in
of how to handle news events of the
ready on hand. In addition, the sim-
economy, in circulation, in general
day. both foreign and domestic, al-
plified usage of "kana" sylabarries
management, it has little to learn
though they have to put them out
greatly has cut down labor and trouble
either from England or America.
under pressure of news urgeney, de-
in writing and composing.
Do the Japanese newspapers, how-
pending on their own judgments. As
This explanation, however, may not
ever, deserve such laureal wreaths to-
a free press, therefore, the Japanese
be clear to the Occidental reader who
day? To this writer it seems that they
newspapers still stand on the threhold
regards his newspaper as a product
have plenty to learn from their coun-
of gaining independence; they are
of the typewriter and the linotype,
terparts in the United States and Great
operating with their feet not securely
a mechanism consisting of less than
Britain, particularly with reference to
on the ground.
30 letters and a score of figures and
clear and concise writing as well as
This does not mean,. however, that
marks. For newspaper making in
efficiency and coordination in news
they have lost much of the initiative
Japan is not so simple as that;: this
gathering and editing. He makes this
and push Mr. Kennedy said they had
fact explains why an average Japa-
statement despite his recognition that
had twenty years back. Far from it,
nese daily goes off press approximately
the Japanese vernacular press is "not
they are endowed with sufficient
one hour behind its rivals in. other
worse" today than pre-war, as is gen-
potency for doing "the good that far
advanced countries of the world.
erally taken for granted.
outweighs the harm" despite a full
One thing that should be taken into
measure of their follies and foibles,
From Editor to Printer
account in this conjunetion, however,
as Mr. Kennedy put it.
Prior to discussions on the organiza-
is the fact that the newspapers in
Since the war's cnd, the Japanese
tional aspect of the vernacular press,
Japan operate under the Occupation
press has been trying, among other
let us take a look at the composing
pursuant to the new standards of jour-
things, to make news stories easier
room of a typical Japanese daily news-
nalism, with which Japanese editors
to read through use of a simpler lan-
paper office. There we find both the
and reporters are not as yet perfectly
guage than heretofore. While the
most salient and backward features of
familiar. It is true that post-censor-
adoption of a simpler language has
newspaper making in the country.
ship had been in force since July.15,
not served to eliminate entirely ab-
As soon as the editor puts down his
1948, but Japanese editors still labor
stract and vague news writing pecu-
blue pencil, the copy boy grabs the
under considerable handieaps and take
liar to Japanese. the innovation has
flimsy from him and sends it down
pains not to over-emphasize the im-
made it simpler and speedier for the
through the pneumatic tube to the
portance of speed in reporting as well
printer's devil to translate pencil-
composing room, usually located in.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 1.00)
46
SHOP TALK
the basement, where the hard-working
stereotype room where matrixes and
the Far Eastern department. Both
compositor astonishingly speedily turns
plates are cast and then to the press
edit and translate foreign news dis-
pencil-scrawled ccpy into type of con-
room.
patches for domestic consumption. No
fusing syllabaries and maze-like Chi-
By and large, 40 minutes to one hour
newspaper or news agency now main-
nese characters.
elapse before the printer starts to
tains a bureau or correspondent any-
With copy and a galley in one hand
work after the copy leaves the editor's
where outside Japan proper. Hence
and a blue sun-shade over his eyes, the
desk. In other words, there is a dis-
with the exception of large newspapers
compositor faces his type cases and
tance of approximately one hour be-
which receive news services under
picks syllabaries and characters as they
tween the editor and the printer. The
special contracts from foreign agencies
appear in the news almost as efficiently
process to follow requires no explana-
correspondents, virtually all the daily
and accurately as the linotypist hits the
tion inasmuch as it is identically the
newspapers in the country depend on
keys of his machine. And as one story
same as that of Occidental newspaper
the Kyodo News Service for foreign
is finished, he forwards the fruit of his
publishing.
news dispatches.
labor to the type setter who arranges
Organization of the Editorial Room
syllabaries and characters legibly in
By and large, the Japanese daily
The Kyodo News Service
order and then hands the galley over
newspaper office is made up of three
It is pertinent therefore to make a
to the "galley boy." The galley boy
major departments, editorial, mecha-
brief explanation of the Kyodo News
then prints a proof of the story and
nical, and business. In some offices
Service which virtually keeps the
sends it up to the proof reader toge-
there are additional departments of
reading public in Japan in the midst
ther with the original. He goes over
general affairs and publication, but
of the never-ending news stream of
the printed sheet and makes correc-
the three department system is the
world affairs through its contracts with
tions in red ink wherever necssary in
standard for the average daily office.
outstanding news agencies of the
th light of the original copy and when
Explanations on the function of each
world, such as the Associated Press
this is done, he returns the proof down
department appear superficial inas-
and, the United Press of the United
to the composing room. The galley
much as it hardly differs in principle
States, the Reuters of Great Britain,
printer has to get busy again with a
in any newspaper office in the world.
the AFP of France, Tass of the Soviet
pair of pincettes. He picks out mis-
In the Kyodo News Service, how-
Union, and the Central News Agency
placed types, puts in corrections and
ever, the burden of the work is shared
of China.
prints another proof of the copy which
by five main bureaus, general affairs,
While American and British news
is submitted to the proof reader for
editing, domestic news, foreign news,
disseminators are noted for their full
approval.
feature service, and communications,
and comparatively accurate world
Up to this stage, the Japanese print-
each having several departments under
coverage including the Far East, Kyodo
ing process is remindful of the days
its jurisdiction as follows:
depends on other agencies as well for
of 18th and 19th century daily sheets,
General Affairs: business, welfare,
interpretative and detailed reports of
such as the Daily Courant of England
transportation
official activities or announcements.
and the Boston News Letter of the
Editing: "Seiribu" (news editing),
As witness, Kyodo is supplied by the
United States, when the printers did
proof-reading, research, news exa-
Central News Agency of China with
all their type-setting work by hand
mination, typists, copy boys
good news material with reference to
instead of the linotype as today.
Foreign News: Foreign news, Far
its own Government in Nanking and
Even in this respect, however, the
Eastern news, English news ser-
provincial governments under its juris-
Japanese printer works under unsur-
vice, occupation news
diction.
mountable handicaps with some 1,850
Domestic News: politico-economic
Kyodo's foreign news department
puzzling Chinese characters and a set
news, social news, and sporting
handles all news flowing in through
of some 50 Japanese syllabaries.
news
AP, UP, Reuters, AFP, and other news
Under pressure of haste and urgency,
Feature Service: feature articles,
agencies from the rest of the world
therefore, even competent compositors
photos, and commentaries
excluding the Far East and the South-
make mistakes in picking types of
Communications: news distribution,
ern Region which are covered by the
similar looking characters and sylla-
telephone operators, radio mecha-
Far Eastern news department with the
baries, such as "right" and "left,"
nics, foreign news receiving, copy
aid of the Central News Agency and
"cryptomeria" and "pine," or "male"
distributing
the Shin-hua News Agency of China
and "female," to mention only a few
In newspaper and Kyodo offices alike
in addition to the above-mentioned
cases; which when scribbled on a
every department is headed by the
international news gatherers. Both
flimsy sheet are extremely difficult to
editor with one or two assistant editors
departments are equipped with a staff
distinguish.
and a staff of several to three scores
of a similar size specially trained for
It can be said therefore that the
of reporters and desk men. The chief
translation and interpretative work.
Japanese printer in a way still labors
of the editorial bureau supervises all
In the selection and handling of the
under a bigger handicap today than
editorial work.
news, the editors are required to keep
the printer-editor of American daily
Daily editorials are written by the
always foremost in mind two essentials,
news sheets in the colonial days.
editor-in-chief and editorial writers
namely, news value from the stand-
Meanwhile, proof making and read-
who usually concurrently hold other
point of the reading public in Japan
ing continue until the copy gets into
posts, such as editors of some depart-
and compatibility of the news with
proper form. When this tedious work
ments.
the growth of democracy in a new-
comes to a close, the make-up man
Now let us explain how individual
born "peaceful and cultural" nation.
sets news stories in their appropriate
departments function to make up daily
Even though the country is occupied,
places in accordance with the editor's
news sheets. One of the most impor-
the editors could not ignore Japanese
instruction and prints a proof of the
tant sections of the editorial bureau
taste and requirements in dishing out
page as soon as the deadline comes.
under the Occupation is the foreign
the daily news of world events. They
Then the proof is presented to the
news department which in some news-
could not hold their chair even a
editor for final approval. With his 'go
paper offices are divided into the
single day if they translate foreign
ahead" signal, the page goes to the
European-American department and
dispatches word for word and put

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
SHOP TALK
them out as they come in. They ought
the wire by radio and telephone. Even
known to the country. Although labor
to know what and how to delete and
Tokyo dailies with the exception of
disputes are covered by the social news
summarize the news although under
such principal newspapers as the
department, the politico-economic edi-
no circumstances can they afford to
Asahi, the Mainichi, the Yomiuri. the
tors are to explain the whys and
twist it to serve any specific purpose
Tokyo Shimbun, keep themselves con-
wherefores of sabotages, walk-outs,
other than democracy. The editors are
stantly. in touch with the Kyodo office
strikes and any other form of labor
instructed to lay hands off any tenden-
by telephone. Most metropolitan eve-
tactics in relation to the political, eco-
tious matter considered inimical to the
ning papers, such as the Tokyo Times,
nomic, and social phases of national
development of democracy in the.
the Shin Yukan, the Tokyo Mimpo,
life.
country.
the pro-Communist Akahata, maintain
The social news department still
To work in the Far Eastern news
their "correspondents" in the Kyodo
plays its time-honored role for keep-
department, a knowledge of the Chi-
main office to keep up with minute-
ing reader interest in its paper. While
nese language is essential in addition
to-minute developments of daily events
yellow journalism has no place even
to English inasmuch as news writers
at home and abroad in a serious at-
in social news pages, reporters in this
often come across the Chinese proper
tempt to guard against scoops by
department are out to scoop the most
nouns too riddling to be handled with-
better-equipped and better-staffed rival
sensational news events of the day in
out a reading knowledge of Chinese.
papers in the Metropolis. Even the
Government and public offices, schools,
When foreign dispatches are distri-
Jiji Press, a new agency, keeps its
police stations, procurators' offices,
buted by Kyodo to its member daily
men in the Kyodo office.
courts, labor union headquarters. It
newspapers throughout the country,
These local "correspondents" get
may be interesting to note that special
they bear such date-lines as "Washing-
copy from Kyodo as soon as it comes
prominence is being given to news of
ton, September 5, (AP-Kyodo),"
out from the news editing desk and
staple-food rations and food imports
"Shanghai, October 3, (UP-Kyodo), or
relay it to their office through their
from the United States and elsewhere.
"London, November 8, (Reuters-
exclusive telephone installed in the
The provincial news department is
Kyodo)", to show the original sources
center of the Kyodo office; if they wait
the nucleus of the net-work of corres-
of the news and its disseminator.
for Kyodo copy through normal chan-
pondents that extends to all key points
Japan's absolute dependence on for-
nels, it will be delayed perhaps more
of the country. Not only does it ga-
eign news agencies for interpreting the
than one hour for it goes to the typist,
ther provincial news from branch
endless stream of world affairs is like-
proof-reader, the memeograph printer
offices in major cities and advance list-
ly to continue as long as the Allied
and then the copy boy who delivers
ening posts in minor points through-
powers remain split over the burning
the printed sheets to the subscribers
out the country but it edits such news
issue of the peace for Japan. It is
on bicycles.
to be printed in the second page of
quite obvious that only a few news-
the daily sheet with the heading of
papers will be able to dispatch corres-
Ordinary newspaper office
some provincial edition or section.
pondents abroad for financial reasons
Telephones are used as the main means
Now turning to ordinary newspaper
even after the peace is written, but
of conveyance although · telephotogra-
Kyodo and a handful of principal
offices, we find there the Occupation
phy is used in some rare cases.
dailies appear itching to re-establish
their net-work of communications,
news department called the liaison or
public relations department peculiar
This department does not submit
though meager, in key points of the
to the press in an occupied country
its stories to the news editing desk for
world to satisfy their peculiar needs.
which handles hand-outs from Occu-
adjustment and approval. Instead, it
conditions and attitudes.
pation authorities, domestic news wri
sends down copy independently and
ten by foreign correspondents and
directly to the composing room and
News Relay
covers news conferences of the G.H.Q.
makes up the provincial edition or séc-
and the Far Eastern Commission, and
tion which is only a part of the second
Before we switch our discussion to
other Allied sources. This department
page of the daily paper.
the newspapers in general, let us dis-
plays an important role in making up
The feature news department
cuss briefly how news is relayed from
the daily sheets, especially in view of
(Gakugei-bu) also disposes of its own
the Kyodo main office in Tokyo to
the fact that Allied news originating
stories, such as sciences, the arts, edu-
member newspapers throughout the
in the country occupies an attractive
cation, religion, culture and recreation,
country. Although Kyodo is expected
and sizable portion of both first and
and household, on its own responsibili-
to start transmitting its daily service
second pages side by side with domes-
ty without depending on the news edit-
through its newly-invented tape-tape
tic stories of a political, economic, and
ing desk. It in addition handles book,
faccimile in the fall of 1948, it still
social nature. The department is
screen, and theatrical reviews, radio
reaches its clients by radio and through
staffed with a few English-speaking
programs, serial novels. "go" and
exclusive telephone service which
reporters and several competent news
"shogi," Japanese checker games.
links Tokyo with Sendai. Aomori,
translator-writers.
News illustrations, caricatures and
Hakodate and Sapporo in the north,
The politico-economic department
comic strips are also edited in this
Nagoya, Kyodo, Osaka in mid-Japan.
perhaps is equipped with the largest
department. Articles are solicited
and Fukuoka, Nagasaki, Kagoshima in
number of staff members. As in any
from known figures in their particular
the west, and Fukui. Kanazawa and
other country, political reporters cover
field.
Niigata in the northwest, to give an
all Government agencies, political
The sporting news department and
inkling of the situation. As soon as
parties, the Diet, and other political
the photographic department probably
news reaches the Kyodo branch offices
news sources while economic leg-men
require no special explanation.
in these provincial news centers, it is
keep watch over their beats, principal
The communications department
again relayed therefrom to the mem-
banks, corporations, the stock ex-
takes care of all incoming and out-
ber subseribers by telephone. Radio
change, and other financial news
going news and news photos through
newseast, however, operates on a 24-
sources. The department furthermore
exclusive wire and wireless aparatus
hour basis
stands alert over the labor union
or by carrier pigeons. All copy is
Provincial newspapers are not the
movement which since the war's end
handed over to the editor in charge
only ones which get the news hot from
has assumed such importance as never
who in turn forwards it to the news

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
48
SCAP DIRECTIVES & MEMORANDUMS
editing desk. All deliveries are done
newspapers employ every possible
sources in the world.
by copy boys. The news editor selects
means to increase their circulation.
Despite all these follies and foibles
and edits the news pursuant to the
For instance, in the face of their in-
however, one cannot deny that the
editorial policy of his newspaper,
ability to maintain correspondents
Japanese newspapers are trying to edu-
writes the headline, decides the size
abroad. leading papers engage foreign
cate themselves and their reading pub
of its types, and makes up the pages.
rewspapermen or Japanese residents
lic in an attempt to elevate their coun-
Page make-up
in Eurone and the United States to
try to the standards of more advanc-
Ordinary newspapers put out two-
dispatch special articles on topies of
ed democratic countries in the world.
page sheets everyday exeept once a
the day or interesting aspects of na-
Even purely journalistically speaking,
week when a four-pag eedition is pub-
tional life in the country in which
the Japanese press is endeavoring to
lished. The front page is usually filled
they reside. While their artieles may
learn all tricks of the trade in the
with both political and economic news.
not be of specia! importance to Japan,
workshep of democracy in the light
domestic and foreign. but when hot
they are given prominent display in
of exanmples shown by the G.H.Q. press
news breaks in the country, it gets in
front pages as "attractions."
section.
the first page with an attractive head-
Some newspapers use news articles
Already foreign crities are unani-
line. As witness, the Asahi headlined
written by American or British corres-
mous that the Japanese newspapers
in the front page the world swimming
pondents in Tokyo to give the Japa-
have learned in a short period of three
record established by Hironoshin Furu-
nese reading public Allied points of
years since the war's end admirably
hashi in Japan's 1,500-meter free-style
view coneerning various aspects of
well how to pack their two-page daily
finals in the summer: of 1948, ihus
polities, finance, labor, jurisprudence,
sheets with good news material which
breaking the tradition of keeping the
education and other subjects pertain-
they failed to dish out in four pages
first page for what is called "stalwart
ing to democracy.
or wider space in pre-war and wartime
news."
To give a variety of reader interest.
days.
In the second page are printed social,
principal papers hold round-table con-
While 17 columns are squeezed in
feature and sports news. Large news-
ferences of their staff members, key
the blanket sheet in a way that is al-
paper which circulate in provinces in-
figures in various cireles in Japan, or
most injurious to the cye sight, they
clude in this page what is named the
foreign correspondents and prominent
are all neatly crowded with factual
"provincial section" filled with stories
foreign residents in the country to dis-
news. entertaining and cultural read-
designed for consumption in a parti-
cuss topies of the moment.
ing material.
cular prefecture or zone. Since this
All these news items are played up
Credit must go to reporters and edi-
"provincial section" is a most effective
in front pages with pictures of parti-
tors who apparently surpass their pre-
circulation builder in provinees, large
cipants, giving en impression that they
decessors in points of their serious
newspapers issue more than a dozen
are being a bit overdone in proportion
search for facts and their efforts to
different editions a day to meet special
to their importance and space of the
translate their observations conscien-
requirements in various localities of
newspapers.
tiously into copy for print.
the country.
Although newsprint allecation is
However they may be, these news
One would not forget to add, how-
limited,—a daily ration is estimated at
features and feature articles are and
ever. that G.H.Q. press officials have
18,970,000 copies for the entire news-
will be treated and accepted as cireula-
helped Japanese newspapers and jour-
tion builders until the Japanese press
nalists in making what they are to-
paper press in Japan, all enterprising
gains direct access to wider news
day.
SCAP DIRECTIVES AND MEMORANDUMS
CONCERNING
Press and Information in Japan
Office of the Supreme Commander for which disturbs public tranquility.
Allied Powers, and rumors.
the Allied Powers
2. The Supreme Commander for the
4. For the time being. radio broad-
10 September 1945
Allied Powers Fas decreed that there
casts will be primarily of a news,
Memorandum for the Imperial Japa-
shall be an abs lute minimum of re-
musical and en: rtainment nature.
nese Government
strictions upon freedom of discussion
News, commentation and informational
Through: Yokohama Liaison Office
of matters affecting the future of Japan
broadeasts will be limited to those ori-
From: The Supreme Commander for
is eneouraged by the Allied Powers,
ginating at Radio Tokyo studios.
the Allied Powers
unless such discussion is harmful to
5. The Supreme Commander will
Subject: Freedom of Speech and
the efforts of Japan to emerge from
suspend any publication or radio sta-
Press
defeat as a new nation entitled to a
tion which publishes information that
1. The Japanese Imperial Govern-
place among the peace-loving nations
fails to adhere to the truth or disturbs
ment will issue the necessary orders
of the world.
public tranquility.
to prevent dissemination of news,
3. Subjects which cannot be dis-
For the Supreme Commander
through newspapers, radio broadeast-
cussed inelude Allied troop movements
Harold Fair,
ing or other means of publication,
which have not béen officially released,
Lt. Col., A.G.D.,
which fails to adhere to the truth or
false or destructive criticism of the
Assist. Adjutant General

=== Page 130 === (confidence 1.00)
SCAP DIRECTIVES & MEMORANDUMS
Office of the Supreme Commander for
cupation and nothing which might
Powers, or which places any oneor
for Allied Powers
invite mistrust or resentment of
the Allied Powers in disrepute.
19 September 1948
those troops.
4. 'Commercial Programs
e. No announcement shall be
In the event that commercial firms
AG 000.73 (18 Sept. 45) CI
made concerning movement of Allied
use the radio for advertising purpo
troops unless such movements have
the script prepared by these firms shall
Memorandum for: Inperial Japanese
been officially released.
conform strictly to the policies set
Government
f. Newcasts must be factual and
forth above.
Through: Central Liaison Office Tokyo.
completely devoid of editorial opin-
Subject: Press Code for Japan.
For the Supreme Commander:
ion.
1. News must adhere strictly to the
g. Newcasts shall not be colored
Harold Fair
truth.
to conform to any propaganda line.
Lt. Colonel, A.G.D:
2. Nothing shall be printed which
h. Minor details of a newscast
Assist. Adjutant General
might, directly or by inference, disturb
must not be over emphasized to
the public tranquility.
stress or develop any propaganda
3. There shall be no false or des-
line.
Office of the Supreme Commander for
tructive criticism of the Allied Powers.
i. No newscast shall be distorted
the Allied Powers
4. There shall be no destructive
by the omission of pertient facts or
criticism of the Allied Forces of Oc-
24 September, 1945
details.
cupation and nothing which might in-
. j. Presentation of news items in
AG 000.76 (24 Sep 45) CI
vite mistrust or resentment of those
newscasts shall not be so arranged
troops.
as to give undue prominence to an
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
5. There shall be no mention or dis-
item for the purpose of establishing
Government
cussion of Allied troops movements un-
or developing any propaganda line.
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
less such movements have been official-
k. News commentary, analysis, an
Tokyo
ly released.
interpreting of the news shall strict-
Subject: Disassociation of Press from
6. News stories must be factually
ly conform to the above require-
Government
written and completely devoid of edi-
ments.
1. In order further to encourage
torial opinion.
liberal tendencies in Japan and estab-
7. News stories shall not be color-
2. Entertainment Programs
lish free access to the news sources of
ed to conform with any propaganda
Programs of entertainment which
the world, steps will be taken by the
line.
include plays, skits, dramatizations,
Japanese government forthwith to eli-
8. Minor details of a news story
poetry, variety shows, comedy, etc.
minate government-created barriers to
must not be over emphasized to stress
shall conform to the requirements set
dissemination of news and to remove
or develop any propaganda line.
forth in paragraph 1-A on news broad-
itself from direct or indirect control
9. No news story shall be distorted
casts with particular emphasis on the
of newspapers and news agencies.
by the omission of pertinent facts or
following:
2. No preferential treatment will be
details.
10. In the make-up of the news-
a. Themes shall not be used
accorded to any news service now ex-
paper no news story shall be given
which may be construed as fostering
eign news services of all nations will
isting or which may be created. For-
undue prominence for the purpose of
any propaganda line.
be permitted to serve the press of
establishing or developing any propa-
b. Themes shall not be used
Japan to the extent that press desires.
ganda line.
which, directly or indirectly dispar-
3. All communications facilities
For the Supreme Commander:
age the Armed Forces or peoples of
under government control shall be
Harold Fair
the Allied Powers, nor will themes
equally available to all national and
Lt. Colonel, A.G.D.
be permitted which would tend, di-
international news agencies so that dis-
Assist. Adjutant General
rectly or indirectly to ridicule those
tribution of news within the Japanese
Allied Forces and peoples.
home islands will not be the special
3. Programs of Information and
privilege of one controlled organiza-
Office of the Supreme Commander for
Education.
tion.
the Allied Powers
Programs of Information and Edu-
4. The government will rescind its
22 September 1945
cation, which include lectures and
prohibition on reception of incoming
talks on subjects such as agriculture,
wireless telegrams (foreign news) by
AG 000.77 (22 Sept. 45) CI
forestry, mining, banking, etc.; lectures
any agency except the Ministry of
Memorandum for: The Imperial Japa-
and talks on subjects such as history
Communications. Interception by any
nese Government
and geography; announcements of an
agency of radio news broadcast by the
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
information nature from governmental
United Nations as a public service will
be permitted. The property rights of
Tokyo.
agencies; and other allied types of pro-
Subject: Radio Code for Japan.
grams, shall conform to the following:
news transmitted by recognized press
1. News Broadcasts
a. Material shall be strictly factual
services will be observed.
a. Newscasts must adhere strictly
and all interpreting and editorializ-
5. The present system of distribu-
tion of news within the home islands
to the truth.
ing shall be founded in fact.
b. Nothing shall be broadcast
b. Material shall be free from
will be permitted under strict censor-
ship until such time as private enter-
which might, directly or indirectly,
any propagandizing.
disturb public tranquility.
c. Remarks or statements that
prise creates acceptable substitutes for
the present monopoly.
c. There shall be no false or des-
would tend to disturb public tran-
tructive criticism of the Allied
quility are prohibited.
For the Supreme Commander:
Powers.
d. Material shall not be used
Harold Fair
d. There shall be no destructive
which can be construed as detrimen-
Lt. Colonel, A.G.D.,
criticism of the Allied Forces of Oc-
tal to relationships between Allied
Assist. Adjutant General

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
50
SCAP DIRECTIVES & MEMORANDUMS
Office of the Supreme Commander for
Supreme Commander for the Allied
ember 1945 relating to disassociation
the Allied Powers
Powers, has been answered by the
of press from government; subject
qualifications as stated above.
laws including:
AG 311.7 (24 Sep 45) CI
For the Supreme Commander:
a.
Shimbunshi-Ho
24 September, 1945
Harold Fair
b.
Kokka Sodoin-Ho
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
Lt. Colonel, A.G.D.,
c.
Shimbunshi-to-Keizai-Seigenrei
Government
Assist. Adjutant General
d.
Shimbun-Jigyo-Rei
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
e. Genron, Shuppan, Shukai, Kes-
Tokyo
sha Rinji Torishimari-Ho.
Subject:
Clarification of Censorship
f. Genron, Shuppan, Shukai, Kes-
Directive
Office of the Supreme Commander for
sha To Rinji Torishimari-Ho Shiko
the Allied Powers
Kisoku
1. Your message dated 15 Septem-
g. Senji Keiji Tokubetsu-Ho
ber 1945 asking for clarification of the
AG 000.76 (27 Sep 45) CI
h.
Kokubo Hoan-Ho
memorandum issued by the Supreme
27 September, 1945
i.
Gunki Hogo Ho
Commander for the Allied Powers on
j.
Fuon Bunsho Torishimari-Ho
10 September 1945 regarding censor-
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
k.
Gunyo Shigen Himitsu Hogo
ship has been received.
Government
Ho
2. The answers to your questions
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
1. Juyo Sangyo Dantai Rei Oyobi
as follows:
Tokyo
Juyo Sangyo Dantai Rei Shiko
a. Communications from the Su-
Subject: Further Steps toward Free-
Kisoku
preme Commander for the Allied
dom of Press and Speech
8. A report will be submitted to the
Powers to the Japanese government
1. The Japanese government forth-
Supreme Commander on the first and
will be regarded as "officially re-
with will render inoperative the pro-
the sixteenth day of cach month des-
leased" only when they have been
cedures for enforcement of peace-time
cribing in detail the progressive steps
cleared by the Public Relations
and war-time restrictions on freedom
taken by the Japanese government
Office, General Headquarters.
of the press and freedom of communi-
to comply with this order and the
b. Official announcement by local
cations.
orders of 10 September and 24 Sept-
Occupation Headquarters will be
2. Only such restrictions as are spe-
ember.
treated in the same manner as offi-
cifically approved by the Supreme
cial announcements by the Supreme
Commander will be permitted in cen-
For the Supreme Commander
Commander in that they will be re-
sorship of newspapers and other pub-
Harold Fair
garded as "officially released" only
lications, wireless and transoceanic
Lt. Colonel, A.G.D.,
when cleared by the Publie Rela-
telephone, cable, internal telephone
Assist. Adjutant General
tions Offices of the local Occupation
and telegraph, mail, motion pictures
Heądquarters.
or any other form of the written or
c. Communications
from the
spoken word.
United States Army Forces, Pacific
Conmmanders of local Occupation
3. Pending repeal of laws imposing
General Headquarters
Forces stationed in various distriets
restrictions which have given the gov-
United States Army Forces, Pacific
of Japan will be regarded as "offi-
ernment complete control of all chan-
Public Relations Office
cially released" for publication only
nels of expression of public opinion
when cleared by the Publie Rela-
their enforcement shall be suspended.
1700
tions Office of the respective local
4. No punitive action shall be taken
Press Release
Occupation Force Headquarters. The
by the Japanese government against
14 September, 1945.
information regarding the occupation
any newspaper or its publisher or em-
The Supreme Commander has order-
by any advance units of various
ployees for whatever poliey or opinion
ed the entire suspension of the Domei
areas of Japan will be treated as
it may express, unless ordered by the
News Agency.
"released" when cleared by the Pub-
Supreme Commander. The power of
lic Relarions Office of hat advance
the government to revoke permission
unit.
to publish, to arrest without prior ap-
d. At the present time no broad-
proval of the Supreme Commander, to
Office of the Supreme Commander for
casts of news are to be permitted
impose fines on publications and to
the Allied Powers
except those originating from Radio
curtail paper supplies as a punishment
Tokyo. With reference to local news
for editorial comment shall not be ex-
APO 500
broadcasts concerning the occupa-
ercised.
1 October 1945
tion by Allied Troops, such news can
5. Compulsory organizations of pub-
Memorandum:
be initiated by the local radio sta-
lishers and writers will be discontinu-
Subject: Request for information on
tion if it has been cleared by the
ed.
paper industry.
Public Relations Office of the Occu-
6. No press bans will be issued by
To Mr. Ohta, Central Liaison Office,
pation Troops in cach respective
any government agency and no pres-
Tokyo
area. The broadeasting of local com-
sure, direct or indirect, will be exerted
The following information is desired
ments regarding foodstuffs and local
on any medium to compel it to con-
by 7 October, 1945:
environmental conditions is permit-
form to any editorial policy not its
a. The present production of
ted so long as such broadcasts are
own.
newsprint and paper suitable for
first cleared through the Press, Pic-
7. Steps shall be taken to repeal
printing magazines.
torial and Broadcast Division of
such parts of existing peace-time and
b. The location of the mills pro-
Civil Censorship Detachment.
war-time laws as are inconsistent with
ducing the types of paper described
e. Your first question, in regard
the Supreme Commander's directives
in above.
to "official releases" being limited
of 10 September 1945 relating to dis-
c. The factors affecting their pro-
to official announcements by the
semination of news, and of 24 Sept-
duction with an estimate of the pro-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
SCAP DIRECTIVES & MEMORANDUMS
duction possible upon remedying
Showa 16 (1941)
"Rules and Regulations for execut-
such factors.
Eigaho Shikkorei Chokurei Dai
ing the Motion Picture Law." (Section.
d. An estimate of the stocks of
668, 26 Sept. Showa 14 (1939)
1 to 28)
paper of these types in Japan at
Eigaho, Kaisei, Chokurei 916.
These laws, rules or regulations give
present.
Showa 15 (1940)
broad supervisory power to the police,
e. A statement of controls exer-
Eigaho, Fusoku, Chokurei 916,
in addition to their censorship provi-
cised over the manufacture and dis-
Showa 1515 (1940)
sions. Such power include deciding
tribution of such paper.
Eigaho, Shikko Kisoku; Naimu,
who shall work in the industry, pass
f. The present allocation of paper
Mombu, and Kosei Shorei Dai
ing on the financial condition of an
to various consumers and the basis
1, 27 Sept. Showa 14 (1939)
owner, checking on the behavior or
therefor, if such allocations are be-
Eigaho, Kaisei; Naimu, Mombu,
attitude of an employee, controlling
ing made.
and Kosei Shorei Dai 37, Sept.
the proportion of foreign films exhibit-
R. C. Gramer
Showa 14 (1940)
ed, preventing actors from walking on
Colonel, G.S.C.
Eigaho, Kakurei, Naimu, Mombu,
the street in stage costume, determin-
Chief, Economic &
Kosei Shorei Dai 1, December,
ing the issuance of passes, and examin-
Scientific Section
Showa 15 (1940)
ing the minutes of a stock-holder's
Eigaho, Kakurei, Naimu, Mombu,
meeting. These powers, no free peo-
Kosei Shorei Dai 1, June, Showa
ple can entrust to a police.
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
16(1941)
8. The few sections of these rules
mander for the Allied Powers
Eigaho, Fusoku, Shorei Dai 37,
which deal with matters of Safety Re-
September, Showa 15 (1940)
gulations and Building Zoning restric-
AG 000.75 (8 Oct. 45) CI
Eigaho, Kakurei, Naimu, Mombu,
tions shall remain in effect until the
16 October 1945
Kosei Shorei Dai 1, April Showa
Japanese Government shall re-enact
18(1943)
such regulations for the protection and
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
Eigaho, Kakurei, Naimu, Mombu,
safety of the public against fire and
Government
Kosei Shorei Dai 1, December,
structural hazards in the motion pic-
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
Showa 18 (1943)
ture industry.
Tokyo
Eigaho, Kakurei, Naimu, Mombu,
9. Necessary instructions will be
Subject: Elimination of Japanese Gov-
Kosei Shorei Dai 1, January,
issued to Prefectural Authorities in-
ernment Control of the Motion Pic-
Showa 19 (1944)
cluding all police agencies, directing
ture Industry
Eigaho, Fusoku, Kakurei, Shorei,
the repeal of any and all similar local
1. Further to the directive of 27
Dai 1, December, Showa 15
rules, regulations or laws which con-
September 45 from the Supreme Allied
(1940)
flict with the spirit or intent of this
Commander, titled "Further Steps to-
Eigaho, Fusoku, Shorei Dai 1, June,
directive.
ward Freedom of Press and Speech,"
Showa 16 (1941)
10. It is the purpose and intent of
the Japanese Government forthwith
Eigaho, Fusoku, April 13, Showa
this directive to free the Japanese mo-
will render inoperative the procedures
18(1943)
tion picture industry from government
for enforcement of peacetime and war-
6. In addition to rendering the fore-
domination and to permit the industry
time restrictions on freedom of speech
going laws inoperative, necessary in-
to reflect the democratic aspirations of,
in motion pictures, including news-
structions will be issued to prefecture
the Japanese people. In due time
reels.
and metropolitan authorities, including
(when the Japanese motion picture
2. The directive of 4 October 45,
police agencies, directing their repeal
companies have demonstrated good
titled "Removal of Restrictions on Poli-
of any and all local censorship rules,
faith), it is envisaged that they will
tical, Civil, and Religious Liberties,"
regulations or laws, to insure that the
establish an industry-wide committee
also shall apply.
spirit of the directives is observed by
which will act as a policing agency.
3. Pending repeal of laws imposing
them.
11. The report required of the
restrictions on thè motion picture in-
7. Steps shall be taken to repeal
Japanese Government in paragraph 8
dustry, making it a channel for disse-
the following Tokyo Metropolitan
of the directive of 27 September will
mination of propaganda, their enforce-
Police Regulations:
include a statement of action taken
ment shall be suspended.
a. "Metropolitan Police Station
to comply with this directive.
4. No punitive action will be taken
Official Publication—(Supplement)
For the Supreme Commander:
by the Japanese Government or any
April 1, 1944 Showa 19.
of its agencies against motion picture
S a t u r d a y—Metropolitan Police
H. W. Allen,
companies, producers, actors, directors
Rules No. 9
Colonel, A.G.D.
or other persons or associations of per-
Rules and Regulations governing all
Assist. Adjutant General
sons engaged in the motion picture or
forms of public performances—April 1,
legitimate theater industry for exer-
1944 (Showa 19)" (Section 1 to 95)
cising their lawful freedom of speech.
b. "Metropolitan Police Rule No.
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
5. Steps shall be taken to repeal
10.
mander for the Allied Powers
the following laws and or regulations
Rules and Regulations governing all
October 24, 1945
which are inconsistent with the Su-
motion pictures—April 1,1944(Showa
preme Commander's directives enu-
19)"
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
merated in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this
(Section 1 to 40)
Government
order, subject laws including but not
c. "Public Morality No. 682—
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
restricted to:
April 15, 1944 (Showa 19)
Tokyo
Eigaho, Horitsu Dai 66, 5 April,
Notification of Rules and Regulations
Subject: Revision of Requirement for
Showa 14 (1939)
governing all public performances and
Printing Materials.
Eigaho, Kaisei, Horitsu Dai 35,
motion pictures."
1. Reference is made to memoran-
Showa 16 (1941)
(Sections 1 to 25)
dum concerning release of printing
Eigaho, Fusoku, Horitsu Dai 35,
(Appendix)
material, dated 15 October 1945.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 1.00)
52
SCAP DIRECTIVES & MEMORANDUMS
2. You are directed to reduce the
b. The names of the individuals
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
amount of material available for sale
making up the rationing organization
mander for the Allied Powers
of Mainichi, Yomiuri and Asahi news-
and whom they represent.
AG 676.3 (2 Nov 45) CCS
by each of them of 215,000 single sheet
paper companies to permit publication
5. The Japanese Government will
20 November, 1945
submit to the Supreme Commander for
newspapers, "11 x 16" every third week.
the Allied Powers at the end of each
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
3. Revised estimate of weekly re-
month a complete and detailed report
Government
quirement is:
of the paper distribution activities dur-
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
Tokyo
a. Sixty-three (63) reams (two
ing that month. The report will in-
Subject: Control of Radio Communi-
and one-half roles of newsprint "64"
clude the following information rele-
cations
.wide.
vant to (a) newsprint (b) foreign type
b. One hundred and twenty-six
paper:
1. Certain radio circuits and broad-
(126) pounds of "newsblack" print-
a. Total quantity of newsprint
casting stations now are being operated
by the Japanese Government or by
ing ink.
and foreign-type paper available for
c. Suitable wrapping and tying
distribution during the given month.
Japanese private agencies.
material to package one hundred and
b. A description of the basis on
2. No additions to any radio circuits
ten (110) bundles, "12 x 16".
which the publishers were allocated
or to the number of broadcasting sta-
tions will be made, and no changes
4. Acknowledgement is directed.
paper.
in points of communication, in loca-
c. The following facts about each
For the Supreme Commander:
tion of transmitting stations or asso-
publisher receiving allocation:
H. W. Allen,
ciated central offices, or in call signs,
Colonel, A.G.D.
(1)
Name and location of company.
frequencies, power output methods of
Assist. Adjutant General
(2)
Amount of paper allocated.
communication, or in ownership of
(3)
Name of each publication and
transmitting or receiving facilities will
its circulation.
be made without registering such
(4)
Present allocation, expressed as
changes with the Civil Communica-
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
percentage of average monthly
tions Section of this Headquarters,
mander for the Allied Powers
amount received during period
through the Japanese Imperial Govern-
AG 461 (26 Oct. 45) ESS/RP
January 1944 through August
ment, at least ten (10) days in advance
1945.
of the proposed date of institution of
26 October1945
d. A complete statement con-
the additional operation or change.
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
cerning rejected applicants for pa-
The document of registration shall be
Government
per, including name, location, name
in English on "8 x 101/2" paper typed
Through:., Central Liaison Office,
and nature of proposed publication,
or printed on one side only and au-
Tokyo
amount requested and reason for re-
thenticated by a competent official of
Subject:
Elimination of Newspaper
jection.
the Japanese Imperial Government. It
Publishers' Associations
Control
6. An acknowledgment of this me-
shall contain full details of the pro-
over Distribution of Paper
morandum is directed.
jected operation, and explanation of
1. The Japanese Government will
For the Supreme Commander:
additional service, and a bill of major
the need or reason for the change or
assume the responsibility of distribut-
ing newsprint and foreign-type papers
H. Wallen,
materials if new construction is con-
Colonel, A.G.D..
templated. The ten (10) day period
to publishers as of 1 November 1945
Assist. Adjutant General
of notice shall not commence to run
or as soon thereafter as practicable.
2. The Japan Newspaper League
until the document of registration has
(Nippon Shimbun Renmei) and Japan
been delivered to this Headquarters
Publishers' Association (Nippon Shup-
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
and receipted by an Officer signing
for the Chief, Civil Communications
pan Kyokai) now controlling the dis-
mander for the Allied Powers
tribution of newsprint and foreign-
Section. In the absence of disapproval
AG 000.76 (29 Oct. 45) SS RP
by this Headquarters, the proposed
type papers will no longer perform
this function.
29October 1945
addition or change may be instituted
at the end of the ten (10) by period.
3. The Japanese Government will
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
However, the filing of the document
create a paper rationing organization
Government
of registration and the expiration of
consisting of two sections, one section
Through:
Central Liaison Office,
the ten (10) day period of notice with-
to be responsible for distributing for-
Tokyo
out disapproval this Headquarters, will
eign paper for books and mafazines,
Subject: November 1935 Allotments
not be construed as approval by the
the other section to be responsible for
of Foreign Paper and Newsprint
Supreme Commander of the change or
distributing newsprint. Each section
1. Until such time as the paper ra-
addition, and will not prejudice his
will be composed of (a) government
tioning organization is established by
right to require modification or reci-
officials (b) representatives of large
the Japanese Government and actively
sion of the change or addition at a
and small publishers (c) at least three
functioning, the November 1945 allot-
later date.
well-known disinterested individuals.
ments of paper and newsprint will re-
3. Direct correspondence between
4. The Japanese Government will
main the same as the October 1945
the Civil Communications Section and
submit to the Supreme Commander for
allotments.
the Board of Communications on mat-
the Allied Forces within ten days after
receipt of this directive the following
2. Acknowledgment is directed.
ters within the scope of this memo-
randum is authorized.
information:
For the Supreme Commander:
For the Supreme Commander:
a. A statement of the principles
H. W. Allen,
H. W. Allen,
and policies which will govern paper
Colonel, A.G.D.,
Colonel, A.G.D.
distribution.
Assist. Adjutant General
Assist. Adjutant General

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
General Headquarters Supreme Com-
Through:
Central
Liaison Office,
2. This suspension is to be effective
mander for the Allied Powers
Tokyo
as of 0001 hours, 27 December 1945
Subject: Suspension of Newspaper Ise
and ending 2400 hours 28 December
AG 000.76 (21 Dec. 45) CIS
Shimbun
1945.
21 December, 1945
1. The Japanese Imperial Govern-
For the Supreme Commander:
ment will issue the necessary orders
H. W. Allen,
Memorandum for: Imperial Japanese
to suspend publication of the daily
Colonel, A.G.D.
Government
newspaper Ise Shimbun.
Assist. Adjutant General
WHO'S WHO IN THE JAPANESE PRESS
ABE, Chotaro
1921; appointed to the present position
Conference. Legal Status of the
Retired. b. 1884, Fukuoka Pref.;
1946. Address: Tojin-machi, Fukuoka
the Straits, Explanatory Remarks on
Career: grad. Meiji Law School; join-
City.
Modern Diplomatic Questions, Contem-
ed The Fukuoka Nichinichi Shimbun,
AMAGI, Tokuji
porary Diplomatic History of the
1908; Editor-in-Chief, 1935; Vice-Pres.,
World, etc. Address: 1, Sanno, Ota-
1940; Pres., The Nishi Nihon Shimbun,
Auditor, The Nippon Times; b. 1893,
ku, Tokyo. Tel. 1-2850.
Aomori Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo
1945; Retired, 1946. Address: 109-3,
Univ., 1917; 1st Secretary, Japanese
ASOMURA, Hidekazu
Hamada-machi, Fukuoka City.
Embassy in the Soviet Union; Consul
Auditor & Editor-in-Chief, The Aki-
ABE, Kenichi
General at Alexandria; Councillor,
ta Sakigake Shimbun; b. 1903 Akita
D. Econ.; Columnist; b. 1890, Toku-
Japanese Embassy in Brazil; joined
Pref. Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., litera-
shima Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda
The Nippon Times, 1940. Address: 7,
ture, 1929 joined The Akita Sakigake
Univ., political econ. 1912; lecturer,
Shoto-machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
Shimbun, 1941; appointed Editor-in-
Doshisha Univ. & Waseda Univ.;
Chief, 1946. Address: 14, Sue-cho,
Editor-in-Chief, The Mainichi Shim-
ASAI, Yoshito
Naka-kamono-machi, 'Akita City.
General Manager, Editorial Dept.,
bun. Publications: Books on Political
The Mainichi Shimbun (Osaka); b.
BABA, Tsunego
Economy. Address: 640-1, Nogata-
1901, Osaka; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
Pres., The Yomiuri Shimbun; b. 1875,
cho, Nakano-ku, Tokyo.
politics, 1929; joined The Mainichi
Okayama Pref. Career: left Waseda
ABE, Shinnosuke
Shimbun (Osaka), 1931; Associate City
College without finishing the whole
Advisor to the Mainichi Shimbun; b.
Editor, 1940; Enterprises Manager, 1943;
course, 1900; Editor-in-Chief, The Japan
1884, Gumma Pref. Career: grad. To-
City Editor, 1945; General Manager,
Times; Reporter, The Oriental Times,
kyo Univ., literature; served as the
Editorial Dept., 1947. Address: 958,
New York; Editor-in-Chief, The Koku-
Managing Editor, Editor-in-Chief with
Minami, Takaishi-machi, Izumi-kita-
min Shimbun; Member of Peers' House.
the Mainichi Shimbun. Publications:
gun. Osaka.
Publications: Review on Contempor-
"On New Faces", "New Faces and the
ary Characters, Life of OKUMA Shige-
World," etc. Address: Kogenji, So-
ASAKURA, Shido
nobu, On ITO Hakubun, Provinces and
sha-machi, Gumma-gun, Gumma Pref.
Pres., The Kobe Shimbun; b. 1893,
Characters, On Parliamentary System,
Fukui Pref. Career: grad. Kyoto Univ.,
Government by Peole, etc. Address: c/o
ABE, Shizuo
literature, 1917; Chief of the Moji
Hirashima, 2237, Sakurayama, Zushi,
Pres., The Hokkaido Shimbun; b.
Branch Office, The Osaka Asahi Shim-
Yokosuka City.
1894, Hokkaido. Career: grad, Tokyo
bun; Assistant Editor-in-Chief of the
Univ., engineering, 1917; after gra-
same newspaper.
Address: 1301,
CHIBA, Yujiro
duating the university served with the
Kawausogawa, Sumiyoshi-mura, Buko-
Pres. & Editor-in-Chief, The Chukyo
government as an engineer from 1918
gun, Hyogo Pref.
Shimbun; b. 1898, Tokyo. Career: grad.
to 1945: was made the director of The
Tokyo Univ., law, 1922; joined The
Hokkaido Shimbun, November, 1945;
ASHIDA, Hitoshi
Tokyo Asahi Shimbun 1922; made
was made the president, 1946. Pub-
L.L.D.; M.H.R.; b. 1887, Kyoto Pref.
Pres. The Chukyo Shimbun 1946. Ad-
lications: published several books on
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1912;
dress: c/o H. Ito, 1-1, Hukigami Hon-
engineering. Address: Nishi-6-chome,
attended 1st and 2nd League of Nations
machi, Chigusa-ku, Nagoya City.
Kita-hachijo, Sapporo City, Hokkaido.
Assemblies at Geneva 1920 and 1921;
DATE, Genichiro
delegate Econ. & Fin. Conf., Geneva
Member of Councillors' House; Pres-
AKEHI, Hajime
1922; chief 2nd sect. Information Bur.
bun; b. 1897, Ehime Pref. Career: grad.
Pacific Union Univ. 1931. General
Pres., The Kyoto Nichinichi Shim-
of Foreign Office 1923; 1st sec. Emb.
in Constantinople 1925; councillor of
same 1929; same Belgium 1930; retired
Shimbun; Editor-in-Chief, The Yomi-
Shiniane Pref. Career: grad. Doshisha
Univ.; Editor-in-Chief, The Kokumin
ident, The Shimane Shimbun; b. 1874,
Manager, the Osaka Branch Office, The
and returned to the Diet 1932; unoffi-
uri Shimbun; Pres., The Kokumin
Yomiuri Shimbun; Pres., The Toyo
cial envoy to U.S.A. and Eur. to pres-
Shimbun; Pres., The Japan Times;
Electric Metro Mfg. Co; appointed to
ent Japan's side of Sino-Japanese hosti-
Pres., The Shimane Shimbun, 1946.
the present position, 1946. Address: 30,
lities Nov. 1937—Feb. 1938; President
Address: 199, Nakahara-cho, Matsue
Doda, Kaiden, Shin Kamihashi-mura,
and Editor of The Japan Times and
City, Shimane Pref.
Kyoto.
Mail 1933—40. Premier & Minister of
AKIMOTO, Zenjiro
Foreign Office, March—Oct., 1948. Pub-
EJIRI, Susumu
Editor-in-Chief, The Yukan Fuku-
lications: The pre-history of the
Chief, Editorial Dept., The Japan
nichi; b. 1905, Fukuoka Pref. Career:
World War II, The "Balkans" Euro-
Newspaper Publishers' & Editors' As-
Joined The Yukan
Fukunichi-sha,
pean Diplomacy after Paris Peace
sociation; b. 1908, Fukushima Pref.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
54
WHO'S WHO
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1932;
bun; b. 1895, Kyoto Pref.; Career: grad.
HAGIWARA, Chuzo
joined The Nihon Dempo Tsushinsha,
Tokyo Univ., literature, 1923; joined
Editorial Dept. Manager, Kyodo
1932; joined Domei News Agency 1936;
The Tokyo Mainichi Shimbun 1923;
News Agency; b. 1901, Tochigi Pref.;
Chief of the Berlin Branch Bur. of
Supt., The Mechanical Dept., 1946.
Career: grad. Tokyo Commercial Uni-
Domei 1939—1945; Joined Kyodo News
Publications: Newspaper & Social Cul-
versity, 1929; joined Nihon Dempo Tsu-
Agency 1946; joined The Japan News-
ture. Address: 6, Kokubu, Ichikawa
shinsha, 1901; joined Domei News
paper Publishers' & Editors' Associa-
City, Chiba Pref.
Agency, 1910; been to New York, 1911
tion 1947. Address: 561, Gokurakuji,
to 1914; appointed foreign news editor,
Kamakura City, Kanagawa Pref.
FURUGAKI, Tetsuro
1915;  English News Edition Editor,
Docteur en droit; Executive Director,
1945; Editorial Dept. Manager, 1945.
ENCHI, Yoshimatsu
NHK; b. 1900, Kagoshima Pref. Career:
Address: 29, Tennoji-cho, Yanaka, Dai-
Chief, Receipt Bur., National Diet
grad. del'Universite de Lyon of France
to-ku, Tokyo.
Library; b. 1895, Ishikawa Pref. Career:
1923; Secretary of the League of
grad. Tokyo Univ., law; joined The
Nations; Chief, London Bur. of The
HAMADA, Tsunejiro
Bank Of Korea; Editorial Writer, The
Asahi-Shimbun; Assistant Editor-in-
A staff of General Management Dept.,
Tokyo Mainichi Shimbun; The Tokyo
Chief, Editorial Dept., The Asahi Shim-
The Tsahi Shimbun; b. 1899, Waka-
Mainichi Shimbun's special correspon-
bun; Advisor to the Central Liaison
yama Pref. Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
dent in Europe. Publications: Aspects
Office, Foreign Office; Member of Peers'
law, 1923; joined The Asahi Shimbun
of the World, Transition of the World,
House, Publications: On Mandate of
(Political News Desk), 1923; been to
History of Germany, On International
the League of Nations, The League of
London to report about the London
Relations, Problems of War Economy,
Nations and World Peace, Melancholy
Naval Armament Reduction Confer-
The Life of Gradstone. Address: 17,
of London. Address: 316-3, Kami-
ence, 1929; been to Berlin as a spe-
Shimizu-cho, Yanaka, Daito-ku, Tokyo.
osaki, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo.
cial correspondent, 1933 to 1940; re-
Tel. 83-0793.
turned home, 1940 and served as
FURUNO, Inosuke
editorial writer. Publications: Den-
ENJOJI, Jiro
Purged; b. 1891, Tokyo; Career: grad.
mark, a Peaceful Country. Address:
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The
Waseda Univ., politics, 1913; Chief,
945, Wada-honmachi, Suginami-ku, To.
Nihon Kcizai Shimbun; b. 1907, Chiba
London Bur. for Kokusai Tsushin, 1925;
kyo.
Pref. Career: grad. Waseda Univ. 1933;
General Manager, The Shimbun Rengo,
joined The Chugai Shogyo Shimpo
1931; Director, Domei News Agency,
HARA, Tadao
1933; appointed overseas correspondent
1936; Managing Director, Domei News
Pres., The Hakodate Shimbun: b.
1940; Economic News Editor 1941;
Agency, 1939—1945. Address: 978, Ko-
1900, Nagano Pref.; Career: grad.
Editor-in-Chief 1946. Address: 1487-2,
jima, Nunoda, Chofu-machi, Kitatama-
Waseda. College, 1922; made Managing
Takada-honmachi, Toshima-ku, Tokyo.
gun, Tokyo.
Director, The Hakodate Shimbun, 1939;
FUJII, Riichi
FUSE, Katsuji
Pres., The Shin Hakodate Shimbun,
Pres. & Editor-in-Chief, The Fukui-
Purged; b. 1886, Niigata Pref.;
1941; Director & General Bus. Manager,
Shimbun; b. 1908, Fukui Pref. Career:
Career: grad. Tokyo Foreign Languages
The Hokkaido Shimbun; Pres., The
.grad. Fukui Industrial College. Ad-
College, 1907; served The Mainichi
Hakodate Shimbun, 1946. Address: 72,
dress: Shichiken, Onomachi. Ono gun,
Shimbun for thirty-five years; sent
Funami-cho, Hakodate City.
Fukui Pref.
overseas nine times, and had interviews
with Chan-kaisheck, Lenin and Stalin.
HARA, Tameo
FUKUDA, Kyosuke
Publications: wrote much about the So-
General Manager, The Mainichi
Managing Director & Editor-in-Chief,
viet Union. Address: 824, Unane-cho,
Shimbun (Tokyo); b. 1900, Kumamoto
The Tokyo Shimbun: b. 1903, Tochigi
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
Pref.; grad. Kyushu-gakuin School,
Pref. Career: grad. Dartmouth Univ.;
1920; joined The Tokyo Nichinichi
Editor-in-Chief, The Miyako Shimbun
GONDA, Yasunosuke
Shimbun; appointed General Manager,
1933; Managing Editor 1936: Vice-Pres-
Executive Director, NHK; b. 1887,
1946. Address: 3, Tomoe-cho, Nishi-
ident 1940; Director, The Tokyo Shim-
Tokyo. Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
kubo, Shiba-ku, Tokyo.
bun, 1943; Editor-in-Chief, 1945. Ad-
literature; lecturer, Economic Dept.,
dress: 2933, Katase, Kamakura-gun
Tokyo Univ.: Researcher, the Ohara
HASEBE, Tadasu
Kanagawa Pref.
Social Problems Institute; Special Of-
Managing Director & Chief Editorial
ficer, Education Ministry. Publica-
Writer, The Asahi Shimbun; b. 1901,
FUKUDA, Eisuke
tions: People's Amusement Problem,
Kumamoto Pref. Career: grad. Waseda
Purged; b. 1880, Tochigi Pref.; Care-
Gonda's German-Japanese Dictionary;
Univ., politics, 1926; joined The Tokyo
er:er: grad. Yokohama Commercial
Translation of Buecher's National Eco-
Asahi Shimbun, 1926; appointed chief,
School; was made Pres., The Miyako
nomy. Address: 27, Chiyoda-ku, To-
Research Desk; Political and Econ.
Shimbun, 1919; Director, The Tokyo
kyo.
News Editor, 1942; Assistant Editor-in-
Shimbun, 1942; Pres., 1945. Address:
Chief, 1945; Managing Director, 1946.
818, Seijo-mnchi, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
GOTO, Takeo
Publications: On Proportional Repre-
FUKUDA, Masanosuke
Pres., The Ibaraki Shimbun; b. 1893,
sentative System. Address: 806-3,
Tokyo. Career: grad. Keio Univ.,
Sports Desk staff, The Mainichi
Magome-machi, Ota-ku, Tokyo.
politics, 1893; joined The Jiji-Shimpo;
Shimbun. b. 1897, Tokyo.
Career:
grad. Waseda Univ. 1919; been to
Political News Editor, Managing Editor,
HASEGAWA, Saiji
America as Devis Cup Champion, 1923
Director & Business Manager, London
Managing Director, Jiji Press; b.
& New York Correspondent; Education
1903, Aomori Pref.; Career: grad. To-
—1925; joined The Mainichi Shimbun,
1927. Publications: Lawn Tennis,
Minister's Secretary; Managing Direc-
kyo Univ., law., 1928; joined Domei
Tennis, This One Tennis Ball. Address:
tor, The Tohoku Coal Mines Co., Direc-
News Agency, appointed Foreign News
154—1, Totsuka-cho, Shinjuku-ku, To-
tor, The Nihon Gold Mines Co. Pub-
Editor, 1936; Chief, Domei's Bur. in
kyo.
lications: Lectures on Newspaper. The
London; Secret. of Editorial Dept.;
Newspaper Industry as Enterprise.
Overseas News Editor, 1945; Managing
FUJIWARA, Kanji
Address: 16, Minami-cho, Mito City,
Director, Jiji Press. Address: 2836,
Editor-in-Chief, The Mainichi Shim-
Ibaraki Pref.
Denen Chofu, Ota-ku, Tokyo.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
HASEGAWA, Shinichi
Ehime Pref.; Career: grad. Kyoto Univ.
ed The Keijo Nippo,, made director
Managing Editor, the Nippon Times;
literature, 1932; served as a reporter
1942 to 1944; Director, The Nihon Shim-
Instructor, Waseda Univ., b. 1902; To-
with The Mainichi Shimbun and The
bun-kai (Japan Press Institute); Gen-
kyo; Career: grad. Keio Univ., 1927;
Kyoto Nichinichi Shimbun; then join-
eral Manager. Nihon Shimbun Remmei
studied at the school of Journalism,
ed The Ehime Shimbun, appointed
(Japan League Newspapers). Publica-
Columbia Univ., New York, 1931;
Managing Editor and later Business
tions: History of Parties in Japan,
formerly special correspondent at
Manager, appointed to the present
Manual of Politics. Behind Hitler's Re-
Washington and Geneva for the Jiji
position in 1945. Address: 1, Ichiman-
gime.
Address:、662-3,
Amanuma,
Shimpo. Address: 1075, Narita, Chiba
cho, Matsuyama City, Ehime Pref.
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Pref.
IMAI, Giichi
HISA, TOMOTAKA
HATA, IHiroshi
Director & Managing Editor, The
European-American News Editor,
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The Sekai
Hakodate Shimbun; b. 1902, Fukushima
The Asahi Shimbun (Tokyo); b. 1904,
Nippo; b. 1904, Saga Pref.; Career:
Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda Univ.,
Hyogo Pref.; Career: grad. Kansai
grad. The Tokyo Univ., law, 1927;
political economy, 1923; Desk Editor,
Gakuin School, commerce, 1927; joined
joined Nihon Dempo Tsushinsha, 1927;
The Asahi Shimbun (Tokyo), 1939;
The Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1927;
joined Domei News Agency, 1933; ap-
Managing Editor, The Chubu Nihon
appointed to Chief,. Asahi's Office in
pointed Chief, Planning Section, Chief,
Shimbun, 1945; Director & Managing
Buenosaires, 1941; Editorial Writer,
Domei's Bur. in Saigon, French Indo-
Editor, The Hakodate Shimbun, 1946.
1944; appointed to the present position
china; joined The Kahoku Shimpo,
Address: 20, Saiwai-cho, Hakodate
June, 1933. Addrcss: 121-6, Asagaya,
1944, appointed Managing Editor and
City, Hokkaido.
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Vice-President; joined The Sekai Nippo,
IMAMURA, Takeo
made Pres. and Editor-in-Chief, 1946.
HONDA, Chikao
Adviser, The Hochi Shimbun; b. 1904,
Publications: Present Industrial Situa-
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The Mai-
Tokyo; Career: grad. Keio Univ., econ.,
tion in French Indo-china. Address:
nichi Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1899, Kago-
1929; joined The Hochi Shimbun, 1929
715-2, Denen Chofu, Ota-ku, Tokyo.
shima Pref.; Career: left Waseda Univ.
and quitted the office, 1941; Director,
without finishing the whole course,
The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce,
HATANAKA, Suetaka
1920; joined The Osaka Mainichi Shim-
1941—1946; joined The Hochi Shimbun,
Editor-in-Chief, The Minami Nihon
bun, 1924; Editor-in-Chief, 1945; Direc-
1946 and appointed Editor-in-Chief;
Shimbun; b. 1903, Kagoshima Pref.;
tor, 1945. Address: 197, Sanjo-cho,
Publications: Translation, "Invest-
Career: grad. Kanda Seinen Middle
Ashiya City, Hyogo Pref.
ment Fundamentals" by R. W. Bab-
School, 1921; joined Kagoshima Asahi
son; Economic Structure of World
Shimbun, 1925; joined Domei News
HOSHIJIMA, Kishiro
Powers. Address: 16-10, Nishikata-
Agency, 1941; Editor-in-Chief, The
Pres., The Yukan Okayama; b. 1895,
machi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo.
Kagoshima Nippo, 1943; Editor-in-
Okayama Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda
Chief, The Minami Nihon Shimbun,
Univ., political economy, 1920; Political
INOUE, Enzo
1945. Address: 80, Takashi-cho, Kago-
News Editor, The Chugoku Mimpo,
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The To-
shima City.
1934; Executive Auditor, The Godo
kyo Times; b. 1894, Saitama Pref.;
Shimbun, 1943; Pres., the same, 1946.
Career: Self-taught; Copy-desk Editor,
HATTANDA, Kakuichiro
Address: 232, Hamamoto-cho, Okayama
The Kokumin Shimbun; Assistant copy-
Pres., The Hochi Shimbun; b. 1901,
City.
desk editor, The Jiji Shimpo; Copy-
Hokkaido; Career: served with the
desk Editor, The Manshu Shimbun.
HOSOKAWA, Takamoto
Chugai-shogyo Shimpo, 1925—1933;
Address: 238, Shimo Daita-cho, Seta-
Managing Editor, The Shakai Shim-
joined The Yomiuri Shimbun, and ap-
gaya-ku, Tokyo.
bun, Honorable Associated Staff, The
pointed Circulation Manager, 1937;
Business Manager, The Manila Shim-
Asahi Shimbun; b. 1900, Kumamoto
INOUE, Isamu
bun, 1942; Business Manager, The
Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law,
General Manager, The Jiji Press; b.
Yomiuri Shimbun, 1945; joined The
1923; Political News Editor, The Asahi
1901, Hiroshima Pref.; Career: grad.
Hochi Shimbun and made President,
Shimbun; Chief, Asahi Shimbun's Bur.
French Dept., Tokyo Foreign Langu-
1948. Address: 84-3, Nakamachi, Ura-
in New York; Managing Editor, the
ages School; Chief, Domei News
wa City, Saitama Pref.
same; Advisor to the same. Address:
Agency's Bur. in Paris; Chief, Domei
4832, Kanoezuka-cho, Oi, Shinagawa-
News Agency's Bur. in Singapore;
HIRAI, Tsunejiro
ku, Tokyo.
Director, The Jiji Press. Publications:
Editor-in-Chief, The Osaka Nichi-
ICHIE, Jutaro
The Fourth Republic of France, Letters
nichi Shimbun; b. 1898, Osaka; grad.
Director & Managing Editor, The
from Liberated France, etc. Address:
Osaka Commercial Univ.; Assistant
Chubu-keizai Shimbun; b. 1908, Aichi
850, Kami-renjaku,
Mitaka-machi,
Editor, Asahishimbun (Osaka). Ad-
Pref.; Career: grad. Keio Univ., 1932,
Kita-tama-gun, Tokyo.
dress: 43, Oide-machi, Nishimiya City,
City Editor, The Shin Aichi Shimbun,
Hyogo Pref.
ISHIBASHI, Tanzan
1941; Chief, Research Section, The
Purged; b. 1884, Tokyo; Career: grad.
HIRANO, Taro
Chubu Nihon Shimbun; Political &
Waseda Univ., religion, 1908; Editor-in-
Managing Director, The Mainichi
Economic News Elitor, 1946. Address:
Chief, The Toyo Keizai Shimpo, 1924
Shimbun; b. 1902, Osaka; Career: grad.
18, Takasuga-cho, Nakamura-ku Nago-
—1939; Pres., The Toyo Keizai Shimpo,
Osaka Foreign Trade School, joined
ya City.
1939—1946; Finance Minister, Yoshida
The Osaka Mainichi Shimbun, 1921;
IIZAWA, Shoji
Cabinet, 1946—1947; Chief, Economic
Circulation Manager, 1939; Manager of
Promoter, the founding of The To-
Stabilization Board, and Chief, the
the Manila Shimbun, 1942; Business
kyo Keizai Shimbun and Executive
Board of Prices, January—March, 1947;
Manager,. 1944; Managing Director,
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The Nihon
was elected Member of the House of
1946. Address: 5-1, Tachibana-dori,
Kyoiku Shimbun; b. 1901, Nagano Pref.;
Representatives, 1947. Publications:
Toyonaka City, Osaka.
Career: grad. Meiji Univ., econ., 1924;
wrote much about economy. Address:
HIRATA, Yoichiro
joined The Chugai Nippo, 1924; ap-
705, Daimachi, amakura City, Kana-
Pres., The Ehime Shimbun; b. 1908,
pointed Assistant Editor-in-Chief; Join-
gawa Pref.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
56
WHO'S WHO
ISHIHAMA, Tomoyuki
Nov. 1945, concurrently Managing
pointed Editor-in-Chief, 1947. Address:
Prof., Kyushu Univ.; b. 1895, Hyogo
Director, The Japan Newspaper Pub-
74, Mitsugumi-cho, Joto-ku, Osaka
Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law,
lishers' & Editors' Assn., since July
City.
1920; Prof., Kyushu Univ.; Editorial
1946. b. 1889, Ibaraki Pref. Career:
Writer, The Yomiuri Shimbun; again
grad. Keio Univ., 1913; joined The Jiji
KADOYA, Seiichi
Prof., Kyushu Univ. after the World
Shimpo, 1913; sent to London as Jiji
Managing Director, The Sasebo Jii
War II. Publications: Outline of Eco-
correspondent, 1917; sent to Washing-
Shimbun, and Pres., Contractor Hoshi-
nomic History, History of German Eco-
ton, 1921; appointed Director & Manag-
no?gumi Ltd. b. 1896, Ehime Pref.
nomy, Formation and Development of
ing Editor, The Jiji Shimpo, 1924; re-
Career: had no school education higher
Capitalism, on New China, History of
tired from the Jiji Shimpo, 1932; ap-
than primary school course. Address:
American Capitalism. Address: 531-1,
pointed advisor to Domei News
28, Wakaba-cho, Sasebo City, Naga-
Kamiuma, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
Agency; Managing Director, The Chu-
saki Pref.
bu Nippon Shimbun, concurrently
ISHIKAWA, Kinichi
KAJI, Ryuichi
Editor-in-Chief & Managing Editor,
Publications Manager, The Mainichi
Publications Manager, The Asahi
1942; Pres., Kyodo News Service, 1945.
Shimbun. b. 1895, Tokyo. Career: grad.
Publications: The Eyes Toward Amer-
Shimbun; 8. 1896, Hyogo Pref.; Career:
Princeton Univ. in U.S., 1919; joined
ica, 1932; Twenty Years as a News-
grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1934; joined
The Osaka Mainichi Shimbun, 1921;
The Manchuria Railway Co., 1920;
paperman; Handbook on Diplomacy,
then served as Chief, Mainichi's Bur.
Handbook on Disarmament; The World
joined The Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun,
in London, chief, photo news desk,
& Japan; History of National Defense;
1934; Assistant Editor-in-Chief, 1942;
cheif, publications manager of the Mai-
A Fifty-Year History of Newspapers;
Publications Manager, 1946. Publica-
nila Shimbun; appointed to the present
A Historical Description of the World's
tions: The problems of Far East; Study
position in 1946. Address: 156-6, Asa-
Big Naval Battles; Great Battles &
on Soviet' Union's Economy. Address:
gaya, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Military Strategies. Address: 5,857, Oi,
97, Sakura-machi, Azabu, Minato-ku,
ISHIYAMA, Keijiro
Kaneko-machi, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo.
Tokyo.
Assistant Editor-in-Chief, The Asahi
KAMAKURA, Kikuma
Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1904, Niigata
ITO, Shukuta
Pref. Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., com-
Managing Director, The Shinano-
Managing Director & Managing Edi-
merce, 1929; Chief, Asahi's Branch
Mainichi Shimbun; b. 1902, Nagano
tor, The Shimotsuke Shimbun; b. 1905,
Office in Bangkok, 1942—1945; Assis-
Pref.; Career: grad. Nagano Middle
Nagano Pref.; Career: left Meiji Univ.
tant Economic News Editor, Asahi
School, 1920; Assistant Managing Edi-
without finishing the whole course in
(Osaka), 1943-1944; General Manager,
tor, 1942; Director & Managing Editor,
1923; had 20 years experience as a
Shonan (Singapore) Office, 1944. Ad-
1943; Managing Director, 1946. Address:
reporter with the Mainichi Shimbun;
dress: c/o Asahi Shimbun Head-office
258, Tsumashina, Nagano City, Nagano
joined The Shimotsuke Shimbun, 1945;
(Osaka), 3-3, Nakanoshima, Kita-ku,
Pref.
made director, Dec., 1945; Managing
Director, 1946; Editor-in-Chief, 1946.
Osaka.
IWAMOTO, Kiyoshi
Address: 2203, Daikan-cho, Utsunomiya
ISHIYAMA, Kenkichi
General Manager & Managing Editor,
City, Gumma Pref.
Staff member, Kyodo Keizai Ken-
Kyodo News Service; b. 1904, Hyogo
KAMBE, Iwao
kyujo (Kyodo Institute of Economy);
Pref. Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law,
Director, The Asahi Shimbun. b.
b. 1882, Niigata Pref.; Career: grad.
1927; joined Kokusai News Service,
1900, Ishikawa Pref. Career: grad.
Keio-gijuku Commercial School, 1906;
1927; appointed Chief, Domei News
Tokyo Commercial Univ., 1924; Chief,
Editor, Mita Shogyo-kai (Economic
Agency Bur. in New York, 1936; For-
(Eqonomic Magazine); Editor, Nihon
eign News Editor, 1937; Chief, General
Accounts Section, The Asahi Shimbun
Shimbun and Maiyu Shimbun; found-
Head-office in Middle China 1942; As-
(Osaka), 1940; Assistant General Man-
ed the magazine "Diamond," 1913;
sistant Chief, General Head-office in
ager, 1945; Director, 1946. Address:
1-508, Higashi Otsuka, Takawashi-
served as the pre. of the magazine till
Southern Regions, 1944; Chief, Branch-
1939. Publications: How to Read the
office in the Philippines, Aug. 1944; ap-
mura, Kawachi-gun, Osaka.
Budget Report, and some ten books.
pointed to the present position since
KAMO, Katsuo
Address: 3390, Kurate, Oi, Shinagawa-
November, 1945. Address: 149-3, Kuga-
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The
ku, Tokyo.
yama, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Mainishi Shimbun (West); b. 1895,
ITAYA, Kotaro
Ibaraki Pref.; Career: grad. Kyoto
Managing Director & Editor, The
KADODA, Isao
Univ., law, 1922; joined The Mainichi
Deputy Managing Editor, The Asahi
Saitama Shimbun; b. 1905, Akita Pref.;
Shimbun, 1924; Assistant Managing
Career: grad. Akita Commercial
Shimbun (Tokyo); b. 1902, Hiroshima
Editor, The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo),
School, 1926; Served with Domei News
Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law,
1942; Director, 1945. Address: 2537-2,
Agency, Nihon Press Association, Etc.
1927; joined The Asahi Shimbun
Hommura, Moji City, Yamaguchi Pref.
(Tokyo), 1928; Chief, Communication
Address: 108-5, Tokiwa-cho, Urawa
City.
Dept. for the South, 1943; Chief, Yoko-
KAMOI, Tatsuo
hama Branch Office, 1944; City Editor,
Business Manager, The Mainichi
ITO, Masaki
1945; Deputy Managing Editor, 1947.
Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1904, Osaka;
Editor-in-Chief, The Bocho Shim-
Address: 1321, Hase-machi, Kamakura
Career: grad. Kansai Univ., commerce,
bun; b. 1887, Yamaguchi Pref.; Career:
City, Kanagawa Pref.
1925; joined The Mainichi Shimbun,
grad. Waseda Univ., English literature,
1926; Circulation Manager, 1942; Assis-
KADOWAKI, Makoto
1910; served with The Tokyo Mancho-
tant Business Manager, 1945; Business
ho, Dainihon Kodan-sha (a magazine
Managing Editor & Chief Editorial
Manager, 1946. Address: 414-6, Ueno-
Writer, The Osaka Times. b. 1912,
publisher). Address: 17, Gogawara,
shiba, Sakai City, Osaka.
Shimane Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo
Yamaguchi City.
Univ., sociology, 1938; Econ. News
KANDA, Kazuo
ITO, Masanori
Editor, Domei News Agency, 1938-
Managing Director, The Mainichi
Pres., The Kyodo News Service, since
1946; joined The Osaka. Times; ap-
Shimbun; b. 1895, Aomori Pref.;

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
Career:, grad. Waseda Univ., 1919; join-
KASHIMURA, Minoru
Zaimokuza, Kamakura, Kanagawa Pref.
ed The Tokyo Nichinich Shimbun,
Director, The Tokyo Shimbun; b.
KIDO, Makoto
1926; appointed Assistant Econ. News
1903, Ibaraki Pref.; Career: grad.
Retired. b. 1897, Fukuoka Pref.;
Editor, 1933; Chief, Yokohama Branch
Tokyo Univ., literature, 1929; Cultural
Career: grad. Tokyo Commercial Univ.,
Office, 1936; Chief, Personnel Affairs
News Editor, The Miyako Shimbun,
1920; joined The Fukuoka Nichiniehi
Dept., The Mainichi Shimbun (Osaka);
1938; City Editor, 1940; Sports' Editor,
Shimbun, 1922; Editor-in-Chief 1934;
Assistant Editor-in-Chief, The Mainichi
1941; Director, The Tokyo Shimbun,
Director & the Head of the Tokyo
Shimbun (West) 1945; Director &
1946. Address: 3-4, Omote-machi,
Branch Office, 1947; Retired, 1947.
Editor-in-Chief, The Mainichi Shimbun
Minato-ku, Tokyo.
Address: 161, Ronindani, Fukuoka City.
(Tokyo); Managing Director, 1946.
Address: 2729, Kisshoji, Musashino-
KATO, Gibun
KITAGAWA, Chojiro
machi, Kita-tama-gun, Tokyo.
Director, The Asahi Shimbun, &
Managing Director, The Hokuriku
Managing Director, The Asahi Shimbun
Yukan Shimbun; b. 1898, Shiga Pref.;
KANECHIKA, Yasushi
(West); b. 1899, Yamanashi Pref.; join-
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., politics,
Pres., The Seiji Shimbun. b. 1897,
ed The Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1926;
1924; served with the Jiji Shimpo as
Hiroshima Pref. Career: grad. Meiji
appointed Copy Desk Editor, 1940;
reporter; later served with several
Univ., 1923; Political News Editor, The
Editorial Writer, 1943; Assistant Man-
companies of heavy industry; then ap-
Mainichi Shimbun; Diroctor, The
aging Editor, 1943; Chief, Communi-
pointed to the present position.
Yomiuri Shimbun.
cations Dept., The Asahi (Tokyo),
Address: Kita-wakajiri Kita-oumimura,
1944; Managing Editor, The Asahi
Hagui-gun, Ishikawa Pref.
KANEKO, Yoshio
(Tokyo), 1945; Director, The Ašahi
Director & Managing Editor, The
(West), 1946. Address: c/o Shiraishi,
KITAURA, Keitaro
Sun Shashin Shimbun; b. 1899, Ibaraki
1-469, Kamitomino, Kokura City,
Pres., The Nara Nichinichi Shimbun;
Pref.; Career: grad. Keio Univ., law,
Fukuoka Pref.
b. 1887, Nara Pref.; Career: grad. Kan-
1924; joined The Mainichi Shimbun
sai Univ., 1917; presecutor, lawyer,
(Osaka), 1924; Chief, Communication
KATO, Masuo
Member of The House of Representa-
Dept., The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo);
Chief, Foreign News Service Bur.,
tives; Director of the Institution of
Chief, Film Dept., The Mainichi Shim-
Kyodo News Service; b. 1898, Aichi
Spreading the Thoughts of the New
bun (Osaka); Chief( Physical Dept.,
Pref.; Career: grad. Chicago Univ.,
Constitution. Publications: National
The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo).
U.S.A., 1923; lecturer, Nihon Univ.,
Text-books & the Constitution, Manual
Address: 1021-7, Kami-meguro, Megu-
1924; joined Kokusai Tsushin, Sept.
on the Constitution. Address: 7,
ro-ku, Tokyo.
1924; joined Rengo Tsushin, 1926; sent
Shuku-in-cho, Nara City, Nara Pref.
to London for reporting London Arma-
KOBAYASHI, Kamechiyo
KANNO, Chiyoo
ment Reduction Conference, 1930; sent
Business Manager, The Mainichi
Managing Director, The Kahoku
to Geneva for reporting Geneva Con-
Shimbun (Tokyo). b. 1897, Yamanashi
Shimpo; b. 1902, Miyagi Pref.; Career:
ference, 1932; Chief, Domei News
Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo School of
grad. Keio Univ., econ., 1928; joined
Agency's Bur. in Washington, Oct.
Physics, 1916; joined The Tokyo Nichi-
The Kahoku Shimjo, 1928; made Direc-
1936; Assistant Chief, Research Bur.,
nichi Shimbun, 1931; Circulation Man-
tor, 1942; made Managing Director,
1940; Assistant Chief, Foreign News
ager, 1939; Chief, Circulation Bur., The
1946. Address: 33, Zentsuji-dori, Sen-
Service Bur., 1943; Managing Editor,
Japan Leaguer of Newspapers, 1943;
dai City, Miyagi Pref.
Kyodo News Service, 1943. Address:
returned to The Mainichi Shimbun,
5,101, Ideishi-cho, Oi, Shinagawa-ku,
KASAI, Hiroshi
1946; appointed to the present position,
Tokyo.
Managing Editor, The Mainichi
9, Kodai-machi, Nakano-ku, Tokyo.
Shimbun (West); b. 1900, Mie Pref.;
KATO, Minoo
KOBORI, Shuji
Career; grad. Waseda Univ., politics,
General Manager, The Mainichi
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The
1924; joined The Manichi Shimbun
Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1901, Aichi Pref.;
Kumamoto Nichinichi Shimbun. b.
(Osaka), 1924; Assistant Managing
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., economics,
1894, Kumamoto Pref.; Career: Jeft
Editor, The Mainichi Shimbun (West),
1924; joined The Mainichi Shimbun,
Waseda Univ. without finishing the
1945; Managing Editor, The Mainichi
1924; Assistant Foreign News Editor,
complete course; joined The Kyushu
Shimbun (West), 1946. Address: c/o
1934; sent to Berlin as special corres-
Nichinichi Shimbun; Superintendent,
Yamaji, 29, Daimon-cho. Kokura City,
pondent, 1936; returned home and ap-
Mechanical Dept., The Kumamoto
Fukuoka Pref.
pointed Assistant Foreign News Edi-
Nichinichi Shimbun, Editor-in-Chief
KASE, Toshio
tor, 1938; Chief, Mainichi Shimbun's
of the same. Address: 160, Honjo-
Managing Editor, The Chiba Shim-
Bur. in Berlin, 1941; Assistant Man-
machi, Kumamoto City, Kumamoto
bun; b. 1910, Chiba Pref.; Career: grad.
aging Editor, The Mainichi Shimbun
Pref.
(Osaka), 1945; General Manager, 1947.
Nihon Univ., engineering, 1931; Assis-
Address: 276, Hakuchoen, Furuichi-
KOJIMA, Fumio
tant Chief, Yomiuri Shimbun's Branch
Office in Chiba Pref.; News Editor,
machi, Minami Kawachi-gun, Osaka.
Director & General Manager, The
Yomiuri Shimbun; b. 1904, Tokyo.
The Chiba Shimbun, 1945; Managing
Editor, 1946. Address: 3366, Yonekura,
KAWAI, Kazuo
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., sociology,
Yokaichiba-machi, Sosa-gun, Chiba
A. B., 1926, M. A., 1928, Ph. D., 1938.
1928; joined The Yomiuri Shimbun,
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The Nip-
1928; Chief, Communication Section,
Pref.
pon Times. b. 1904, Tokyo. Career:
1938; Superintendent, Mechanical Dept.,
KASHIMA, Isamu
grad. Stanford Univ., Calif., U.S.A.,
1943; Director, 1945; Director & Gen-
Pres., The Yukan Mie; b. 1915,
1926; English Editor, Japanese-Amer-
eral Manager, 1946. Address: 216-2,
Tokyo; Career: grad. Tokyo Ushigome
ican News, San Francisco, Calif.,
Saginomiya-cho, Nakano-ku, Tokyo.
Commercial Middle School; at present
U.S.A.; Instructor, later Assistant Pro-
holds the post of Director, Azuma Steel
fessor of History, University of Cali-
KOMATSU, Miyuki
Work Co. Address: 204, Hamaisshiki,
fornia at Los Angeles; joined the
Director,
The Asahi
Shimbun
Yokaichi City, Mie Pref.
Nippon Times, 1941. Address: 485,
(Osaka); b. 1898, Nagano Pref.; Career:

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
58
WHO'S WHO
grad. Kobe Commercial College, 1924;
later Director of the same newspaper.
KUSUYAMA, Yoshitaro
sent to America and Britain for inves-
Address: 184, Nakakuma, Kochi City,
Director,• The Mainichi Shimbun, &
tigating newspaper circulation busi-
Kochi Pref.
Editor-in-Chief and Liaison Officer,
ness, 1936; Circulation Manager, 1937;
The Eibun (English) Mainichi. b. 1897,
Assistant Business Manager, 1941;
KURIBAYASHI, Tamio
Wakayama Pref. Career: grad. Waseda
Business Manager, The Asahi Shimbun
Director, Deputy Managing Editor,
Univ., 1920; joined The Osaka Mainichi
(west), 1942; Business Manager, The
Editorial Writer, The Tokyo Mimpo.
Shimbun, 1920; studied in America,
Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1944; Direc-
b. 1894, Nagano Pref. Career: has had
Britain and France, 1921—1925; Assis-
tor, 1946. Address: 23, Fukuchiin-
no school education; Editor, the maga-
tant Foreign News Editor, 1928—1933;
machi, Nara Pref.
zine "Kaizo", 1923—1927; City Editor,
Chief, the newspaper's branch office in
The Shimbun Rengo, 1927—1934; City
Kobe, 1933; sent to Europe, 1939—1940;
KOMATSU, Shigeru
Editor, Domei News Agency, 1935—
Foreign News Editor, 1941; retired the
Managing Director (in charge of
1945; Managing Editor & Business
office, and joined The Nippon Times
technical affairs), NHK (Japan Broad-
Manager, The Tokyo Mimpo, 1943.
as President, 1944; appointed Pres.,
casting Corporation); b. 1903, Toyama
Address: 335-1, Okusawa-machi, Tama-
The Shanhai Times, Feb., 1945; return-
Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda Univ.,
gawa, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
ed to The Mainichi Shimbun and
electricity, 1925; served with NHK for
Editor-in-Chief (Tokyo), Sept., 1945;
years.
Address: 2,526, Amanuma,
KURIYAMA, Toshio
held the resent position since April,
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Managing Director & Managing Edi-
1947. Address: 1087-3,
,Kitazawa,
tor, The Shin-hochi Shimbun; b. 1909,
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
KONDO, Tahachiro
Ibaraki Pref.; Career: grad. Keio
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The
Univ., 1935; staff, The Yomiuri Shim-
MAEDA, Hisayoshi
Nanshin Nichinichi Shimbun. b. 1892,
bun, 1935—1048; joined The Hochi
Advisor to Sankei Printing Co. Ltd.;
Toyama Pref.; Career; gra. The Tokyo
Shimbun, 1948, and appointed to the
b. 1893, Osaka. Career: Received no
Book-keepers' School. Since 1912 has
present position. Address: 332, Shimo-
higher education than a primary school
been engaged in newspaper business.
takatsu, Tsuchiura City, Ibaraki Pref.
course; Managing Director, The Osaka
Address: Benten-cho, Suwa City, Na-
gano Pref.
KUROGOCHI, Jushiro
Shimbun; Director, The Mainichi
Shimbun; Managing Director, The
Director, Business Manager & Supt.
KOTABE, Keijiro
Mech. Dept., The Nanshin Nichinichi
Sangyo Keizai Shimbun; Managing
Editor-in-Chief, The Nishi Nihon
Shimbun. b. 1906, Nagano Pref. Career:
Director, The Osaka Jiji Shimpo.
Shimbun; b. 1906, Fukuoka Pref.;
grad. Waseda Univ., commerce, 1931;
Address:
10, Kinugasa-cho, Kita-ku,
Career: grad. Graduate School, Tokyo
joined The Nanshin Nichinichi Shim-
Osaka.
Univ., Econ., 1932; joined The Fuku-
bun, 1945.
oka Nichinichi Shimbun, 1933; Chief,
MAEDA, Hisayoshi
the same newspaper's Bur. in Shanghai,
KUROZAKI, Teijiro
Pres., The Osaka Jiji Shimpo; b.
1938; Econ. News Editor, 1941; Sccre-
Managing Editor, The Shin Osaka
1893, Osaka City; Career: had no higher
tary, Editorial Writers' Room, The
Shimbun; b. 1903, Osaka; Career: left
education than a primary school
Nishi Nihon Shimbun, 1943; Assistant
Kansai-Gakuin school without finishing
course; Pres., The Yukan Osaka, 1927—
Editor-in-Chief, The Nishi Nihon Shim-
the whole course; joined The Osaka
1942; Pres., The Osaka Jiji Shimpo,
bun, 1944; Director, 1946; retired from
Jiji Shimpo, 1922; joined The Osaka
1935—1936; Director, The Mainichi
directorship, 1944. , Address, 104-2,
Mainichi Shimbun, 1924; transferred to
Shimbun, 1938—1943; Managing Direc-
Torigai, Fukuoka City.
The Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun, 1928;
tor, The Nihon Kogyo Shimbun, 1939—
Cultural News Editor, 1942; joined The
1942; Managing Director, The Osaka
KOYAMA, Nobuo
Shin Osaka Shimbun, 1946. Address:
Shimbun, 1942—1946; Managing Direc-
Director & Managing Editor, The
23, Nanamatsutachibana, Amagasaki
tor, The Sangyo-keizai Shimbun, 1942
Tokyo Shimbun. b. 1900, Niigata Pref.;
City, Hyogo Pref.
—1946; made Pres., The Osaka Jiji
Career: grad. Keio Univ., economics,
Shimpo, 1946. Address: 9-55, Hancho,
1927; Econ. News Editor, The Miyako
KUROZUMI, Tadashi
Minomo-mura, Toyono-gun, Osaka.
Shimbun, 1934; Econ. News Editor,
Managing Editor & Editorial Writer,
The Tokyo Shimbun, 1942; Director &
The Asahi Slrimbun (west); b. 1904,
MAEDA, Kiyoshi
Managing Editor, 1945. Address: 845,
Okayama Pref.; Career: grad. Osaka
Director & General Manager, The
Kitakata, Ichikawa City, Chiba Pref.
Foreign Languages School, English,
Tokyo Shimbun; b. 1897, Aomori Pref.;
1926; joined The Asahi Shimbun, 1926;
KUMAGAI, Kanichi
Chief, Asahi's Bur. in Sydney, 1941;
Career: grad. St. Paul's Univ., 1924;
Managing Director, The Bocho Shim-
Chief, Photo News Desk, 1942; Chief,
Copy Desk Editor, The Hokkai Times,
bun; b. 1896, Yamaguchi Pref. Career:
Asahi's Head-office in Peiping, 1943;
1933; Managing Director, The Muroran
had no school education; held in
Managing Editor, The Asahi Shimbun
Nippo, 1941; General Affairs Manager,
the following positions: Circula-
(west), 1946; Chief Editorial Writer,
Japan Press Association, 1944; Director
tion and Advertisement Manager, The
1944.
Address: Higashi Shimachi,
& General Manager, The Tokyo Shim-
Tokyo Jiji Shimpo; Chief, Keijo
Daikoku, Moji City.
bun, 1946. Address: 880, Wada Hon-
Nippo's Branch Office in Tokyo; Pres.,
machi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
The Kokai Nippo, Korea; Director, The
KUSUMI, Ryunoshin
Mainichi Shimpo, Soul, Korea.
Director & Managing Editor, The
MAEDA, Tamon
Address: 84, Murozumiura, Hikari City,
Too-nippo; b. 1908, Aomori Pref.;
Pres., Tokyo Tsushin Kogyo Co.; b.
Yamaguchi Pref.
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1931;
1884, Osaka; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
Assistant Copy-desk Editor, The Osaka
1909; government delegate to Inter-
KUNOO, Yuki
Mainichi Shimbun, 1942; Advisor to
national Labor Conference; Editorial
Pres., The Kochi Shimbun. b. 1886,
the editorial dept., 1945; Editor-in-
Writer, The Asahi Shimbun; Chief,
Kochi Pref.; Career: Have had no
Chief ,The Too Nippo, 1942. Address:
Japan Cultural Hall in New York,
school education; Chief, The Kochi
2-22, Wada, Kominato-machi, Higashi
U.S.A.; Governor, Niigata Pref.; Edu-
Shimbun's Branch Office in Tokyo,
Tsuruga-gun, Aomori Pref.
cation Minister. Address: Okurayama,

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
Futoo-cho, Kita-ku, Minato, Yokohama
bun; b. 1905, Shiga Pref.; Career: grad.
position.
Address: 35-2, Asahidori,
City, Kanagawa Pref.
Hachiman Commercial School, 1923;
Miyazaki City, Miyazaki.Pref.
Auditor, The Shiga Shimbun, 1942;
MAEDA, Yoshinori
General Manager, Omi Trustee Co.
MATSUZAKI, Shojiro
Foreign Néws Editor, The Asahi
Ltd., 1944; Managing Director, The
Managing Director, The Ise Shimbun;
Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1906; Hokkaido;
Shiga Shimbun, 1945. Address: 1,
b. 1894, Saga Pref.; Career: grad. Arita
Career: grad. Roman Univ., politics,
Tamiya-cho, Oisu City, Shiga Pref.
Industrial School, 1914; joined The Ise
1936; joined The Asahi Shimbun and
Shimbun as editorial writer, 1923;
stayed in Rome, 1936; sent to Western
MATSUKATA, Yoshisaburo
later served with The Shin Aichi-
Asia as correspondent, 1941; Chief,
Director & Editor-in-Chief, Kyodo
Shimbun, Mie-nichinichi Shimbun,
Asahi Shimbun's Bur. in Saigon; For-
News Service; b. 1899, Tokyo; Career:
Seshyu-mainichi Shimbun, etc., rejoin-
eign News Editor, The Asahi Shimbun
gradff Kyoto Univ., econ., 1922; sent
ed The Ise Shimbun and appointed di-
(Osaka), 1946. Address: 1104, Asada,
to the Pacific Conference in 1933; join-
rector in 1937; appointed to the. pre-
Toyonaka City, Osaka.
ed The Shimbun Rengo, 1934; joined
sent position, 1947. Address: 705, Ueno,
Domei News Agency and appointed
Komori, Tsu City, Mie Pref.
MAEKAWA, Shizuo
Chief, Domei Bur. in North China,
MIKOSHIBA, Takashi
Managing Director, Editor-in-Chief
1938; appointed Chief, Domei Bur. in
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The Nan-
and Superintendent, Mechanical De-
Middle China, 1939; Managing Director,
shin Nichinichi Shimbun; b. 1889,
partment, The Tokushima Shimbun; b.
Manchukuo News Agency, 1942; Direc-
Nagano Pref.; Career: left Keio Univ.,
1902, Hiroshima Pref.; Career: left
tor and Managing Editor, Kyodo News
econ., without finishing the whole
Tokyo Foreign Languages School with-
Service, 1945. Address: 30, Reinan-
course, 1913; joined The Nanshin
out finishing the whole course, 1922;
zaka, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo.
Nichinichi Shimbun, 1926; joined The
joined The Kokumin Shimbun, 1923;
Shinano Mainichi Shimbun, 1942; join-
joined The Mainichi Shimbun (Osaka),
MATSUMOTO, Toru
ed The Nanshin Nichinichi Shimbun,
1929; joined The Yomiuri Shimbun,
Director & Managing Editor, The
1946. Address: Daiwa, Suwa City,
1935; Managing Director, The Toku-
Ehime Shimbun; b. 1910, Ehime Pref.;
Nagano Pref.
shima Shimbun, 1944. Address: 19-2,
Career: grad. Waseda Univ., English
Chuo-dori, Tokushima City, Tokushima
literature, 1933; had experiences as a
MISAWA, Takusaburo
Pref.
reporter with The Fukuoka Nichinichi
Pres., The Nanshin Nichinichi Shim-
Shimbun and The Nishi Nihon Shim-
bun; b. 1900, Nagano Pref.; Career:
MARUYAMA, Kanji
bun; later joined The Ehime Shimbun
left Waseda Univ., engineering, with-
Advisor to The Mainichi Shimbun;
and appointed Assistant Managing
out finishing the whole course; engag-
b. 1880, Nagano Pref.; Career: grad.
Editor and then to the present position.
ed in newspaper business since 1936;
Waseda Univ., 1901; Reporter, The
Address: 879, Kuwabara-cho, Matsu-
appointed to the present position Nov.,
Nihon Shimbun; sent to New York as
yama City, Ehime Pref.
1947. Address: Koyanagi-machi, Suwa
the correspondent of The Osaka Asahi
City, Nagano Pref.
Shimbun; Economic News Editor, The
MATSUNAGA, Iwao
Yomiuri Shimbun; Editor-in-Chief,
Managing Editor, The Eibun Mai-
MIURA, Shigeo
The Keijo Nippo; Advisor to The Mai-
nichi (Osaka); b. 1905, Tokyo; Career:
Managing Director & Managing Edi-
nichi Shimbun. Address: 37-2, Nishi
grad. Columbia Univ., U.S.A., 1929;
tor, The Kyoto Nichinichi Shimbun; b.
Takaido,'Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
joined The Mainichi Shimbun, 1932;
1902, Gifu Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda
sent to Manila, the Philippine,· 1942;
Univ., law, 1925; Director & Managing
MASATOMI, Emiiru
Assistant Managing Editor, The Eibun
Editor, The Yomiuri Shimbun; appoint-
Assistant Chief, Liaison Section.
Mainichi (Osaka), 1946; Managing
ed to the present position, Dec., 1946.
The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo); b.
Editor, The Eibun Mainichi, 1947.
Address: 44, Tadekura-cho, Shimogamo,
1897, Okayama Pref.; Career: grad.
Address: 197, Hagoromo, Takaishi-cho,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto City.
Washington Univ., politics, 1920; joined
Izumikita-gun, Osaka.
The Mainichi Shimbun, 1925; Assistant
MIURA, Shubun
Managing Editor, The Eibun Mainichi,
MATSUNAMI, Isamu
Director & Managing Editor, The
1933; sent to America, 1937; sent to
Managing Director & Chief, Planning
Chubu Nihon Shimbun; b. 1907, Aichi
Manila, 1942; Managing Editor, The
Bur., The Sangyokeizai Shimbun; b.
Pref.; Carcer: grad. Kyoto Univ., law,
English Manila Shimbun, 1942; Assis-
1900, Osaka City; Career: grad. Osaka
1933; joined The Chubu Nihon Shim-
tant Managing Editor, The Eibun Mai-
Foreign Trade School; joined The
bun, 1933. Address: 326. Kako-machi,
nichi, 1946. Address: 83, Date-cho,
Nihon Kogyo Shimbun, 1933; Business
Chigusa-ku, Nagoya City.
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
Manager, 1941; Director, 1942; Publi-
cations Manager, 1946; Managing Di-
MIYAGISHI, Yosamatsu
MASUDA, Toyohiko
rector, 1946. Address: 33-1, Higashi,
Pres., The Sanyo Choho; b. 1889,
Deputy Editor-in-Chief, The Asahi
Minami-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka City.
Ishikawa Pref.; Career: had no school
Shimbun (Tokyo); b. 1900, Fukuoka
Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law,
MATSUOKA, Kenichiro
education; Editor-in-Chief, The Chu-
1924; joined The Asahi Shimbun
Managing Editor, The Sun News
goku Mimpo; Managing Director, The
(Tokyo), 1934; Econ. News Editor, The
Photos; b. 1914, Washington, D.C.;
Godo Shimbun. Address: 898, Kami-.
Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1940; East
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1942;
ifuku Nakamachi, Okayarna City, Oka-
Asiatic News Editor, The Asahi Shim-
joined Domei News Agency as a re-
yama Pref.
bun (Tokyo), 1943; Managing Editor,
porter, 1942. 385-2, Sendagaya, Shi-
MIYAKE, Miyoji
The Java Shimbun, 1944; Associated
buya-ku, Tokyo.
Managing Director & Editor-in-Chief,
Editor-in-Chief, The Asahi Shimbun
MATSUSHITA, Motoyoshi
The Shimane Shimbun; b. 1897, Oka-
(Tokyo), 1946. Address: 79, Kyodo-
Pres., The Hyuga-nichinichi Shim-
yama Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
machi, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
bun; b. 1889, Kagoshima Pref.; Career:
politics, 1923; Official, Osaka Municipal
MATSUI, Hidejiro
Staff of The Asahi Shimbun, 1919—
Office, 1923—1945; Editor-in-Chief, The
Managing Director, The Shiga Shim-
1942, then appointed to the present
Shimane Shimbun, 1946.
Address:

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
60
WHO'S WHO
Mae-cho, Kitabori-cho, Matsue City,
Assistant Political Economic News
Nishi Nihon Shimbun, 1945; Local
Shimane Pref.
Editor, 1945; Business Manager, 1946;
News Editor, 1946; General Manager,
Director, Dec., 1946. Address: 1002-1,
Editorial Department, 1946; Managing
MIYAKE, Shutaro
Setagaya, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
Editor, 1946. Address: 116, Kasugahara
Special Staff, Cultural News Section,
Quarters, Kasuga-mura, Chikushi-gun,
The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo); b.
NAGAE, Masato
Fukuoka Pref.
1892, Hyogo Pref.; Career: grad. Keio
Retired; b. 1883, Fukuoka Pref.
Univ., literature, 1918; joined The Mai-
Career: grad. Keio Univ., 1908; Direc-
NAKAHIRA, Masaaki
nichi Shimbun (Osaka), 1924; shifted
tor, The Bank of Miike, 1926; Vice-
Director and Managing Editor, The
to The Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun;
Pres., The Fukuoka Nichinichi Shim-
Kochi Shimbun; b. 1906, Kochi Pref.;
wrote much about dramas. Address;
bun, 1932; Pres., The Nishi Nihon
Career: grad. Hosei Univ., law, 1931;
c/o Horino, Matsugasaki, Sakyo-ku,
Shimbun, 1932; Pres., The Nishi Nihon
joined The Kochi Shimbun, 1931 and
Kyoto City.
Shombun, 1943; Retired the office, 1943.
stayed at the office up to now.
Address: 787, Eura, Takada-mura,
Address: 1278, Asakura, Kochi City,
MORI, Shozo
Miike-gun, Fukuoka Pref.
Kochi Pref.
Managing Editor, The Mainichi
Shimbun( Tokyo); b. 1900, Shiga Pref.;
NAGAI, Daizo
NAKANO, Fushio
Career: grad. Tokyo Foreign Languages
Business Manager, The Asahi Shim-
Pres., The Yukan Fukunichi; b. 1902,
School, Russian, 1938; Chief, Mainichi
bun (Tokyo); b. 1903, Hiroshima Pref.;
Fukuoka Pref.; Career: had no school
Shimbun's Bur., Harbin; sent to Mos-
Career: grad. Tokyo Commercial Col-
education; joined The Fukuoka Nichi-
cow; Editorial Writer; Managing Edi-
lege, 1927; joined The Asahi Shimbun,
nichi Shimbun, 1922; Assistant Manag-
tor. Address: 471, Kita Senzoku-cho,
1927; Circulation Manager, 1942; Busi-
ing Editor, 1944; Managing Editor, The
Ota-ku, Tokyo.
ness Manager, 1946. Address: c/o
Yukan Fukunichi, 1946.
Address:
MORITA, Hisashi
Yokota, 724-2, Denenchofu, Tamagawa,
Hachiban-cho, Haruyoshi,
Fukuoka
Running Yuai Private School, Kyu-
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
City.
shu Industrial-Cultural Assn. b. 1890,
NAGANO, Hiroshi
NAKATSUBO, Yaozo
Fukuoka Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda
General Manager, The Oita Godo
Business Manager & General Man-
Univ., politics, 1915; Econ. News Edi-
tor, The Jiji Shimpo; Pres., The Kyu-
Shimbun; b. 1935, Oita Pref.; Career:
ager, The Mainichi Shimbun (west);
gradf Waseda Univ., commerce, 1942;
b. 1900, Yamaguchi Pref.; Career: had
shu Nippo; Managing Director, Man-
appointed to the present position, 1946.
no school education; joined The Mai-
churian Public Relations Office; Pres.,
Address: 11-2, Niage-machi, Oita City,
nichi Shimbun, 1921; Circulation Man-
Manchurian News Agency; Director,
Nippon Press Association. Address:
Oita Pref.
ager, 1938; Business Manager, The
Mainichi Shimbun (West); appointed
Sanjo, Dazai-fu machi, Chikushi-gun,
NAGANO, Tadashi
to the present position, 1947. Address:
Fukuoka Pref.
Director, The Oita Godo Shimbun;
2182-4, Kamihonmachi, Moji City,
MOTO, Kazuo
b. 1912, Oita Pref.; Career: grad.
Fukuoka Pref.
Pres., The Toyama Shimbun; b. 1896,
Waseda Univ., econ., 1937; joined The
Ishikawa Pref.; Career: left Waseda
Honshu Nippo, 1937; joined The Oito
NAOMI, Zenzo
Univ., without finishing the .whole
Godo Shimbun, 1942. Address: 2-2,
Managing Director & Editorial Wri-
course; Editor-in-Chief, The Hokkoku
Niage-machi, Oita City, Oita Pref.
ter, The Tokyo Shimbun; b. 1897, Ishi-
kawa Pref.; Career: grad. La Serbono
Mainichi Shimbun.
Address: 76,
NAGASHIMA, Matao
Univ., Paris, 1920; Editorial Writer,
Shimo-dodomeki-cho, Kanazawa City,
Director & Managing Editor, The
The Chugai-shogyo Shimpo, 1942; Edi-
Ishikawa Pref.
Tokyo Mimpo; b. 1904, Saitama Pref.;
torial Writer, The Tokyo Shimbun,
MURAI, Sukemasa
Career: grad. Waseda Univ. without
Nov., 1942; Director & Chief Editorial
Managing Editor, The Toyama Shim-
finishing the whole course; Assistant
Writer of the same, 1945. Address:
bun; b. 1899, Ishikawa Pref.; Career:
Political News Editor, Domei News
1434-2,
Setagaya-cho, Setagaya-ku,
left Nihon Univ. without finishing the
Agency; Editor-in-Chief, The Tokyo
Tokyo.
whole course, 1919; Chief, Hokkoku
Mimpo. Address: 113-4, Tokiwa-cho,
NATSUME, Koichiro
Mainichi Shimbun's branch office in
Urawa City, Saitama Pref.
Business Manager ,The Asahi Shim-
Toyama City; then appointed to the
NAGATO, Masaji
bun (Osaka); b. 1897, Tokyo; Career:
present position. Address: 199, Sogawa,
Director and Managing Editor, The
grad. Tokyo Univ., economics, 1923;
Toyama City, Toyama Pref.
Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo); b. 1891,
Chief, Communications Section, The
MURATA, Goro
Fukushima Pref.; Career: grad. Azumi
Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1940; Chief,
B.A.; Director and Managing Editor,
Middle School of Fukushima Pref.,
Personnel Affairs Section; Assistant
The Nippon Times; b. 1907, Los
1910; joined The Tokyo Nichinichi
Chief, Publications Dept., 1945; Busi-
Angeles, Califo., U.S.A.; Career: grad.
Shimbun, 1922; Editor-in-Chief, 1945;
ness Manager, 1946. Address: 95-10,
Whittier College, Calif., U.S.A., 1930;
Director and Editor-in-Chief, 1947.
Sonowa-cho, Amagasaki City, Hyogo
English Editor, Japanese-American
Address: 99-2, Ogikubo, Suginami-
Pref.
News, Los Angeles, 1930—1931; Eng-
ku, Tokyo.
NIINOBE, Shuzo
lish Editor, California Daily News,
NAKAHARA, Arataro
Auditor & Managing Editor, The
Calif., 1931—1933; joined The Nippon
Managing Editor, The Nishi Nihon
Chukyo Shimbun; b. 1905, Osaka;
Times, 1933. Address: 500-4, Mabashi,
Shimbun; b. 1895, Fukuoka Pref.;
Career: grad. Keio Univ., economics,
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Career: had no school education; join-
1928; joined The Asahi Shimbun, 1929
MUTO, Mitsunori
ed The Fukuoka Nichinichi Shimbun,
and worked in the office till 1946; join-
Director and Business Manager, The
1921; appointed Chief, Kurume Branch
ed The Chukyo Shimbun and appoint-
Yomiuri Shimbun; b. 1913, Tokyo;
Office, 1927; Chief, Oita Branch Office,
ed Managing Editor, 1946. Address:
Career: grad. Nihon Univ., law, 1939;
1929; Chicf, Kumamoto Branch Office,
9-5, Hiyori-cho, Chigusa-ku, Nagoya
joined The Yomiuri Shimbun, 1939;
1937; Assistant Copydesk Editor, The
City.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
61
NISHIMURA, Jiro
OBAMA, Toshio
stitute of Tokyo Univ., 1947. Publica-
Managing Director & Editorial Wri-
Purged; b. 1889, Shimane Pref.;
tions; History of Japanese Newspaper.
ter, The Niigata Nippo; b. 1903, Tokyo;
Career: grad. Waseda Univ., economics,
On the Origination of Newspapers, On
Career: grad. Tokyo Commercial Univ.,
1915; joined The Chugai-shogyo
Modern Newspaper, The Study on the
1928; Assistant Political News Editor,
Shimpo (re-named The Nihon-Keizai-
press, History of the Developments of
Domei News Agency, 1936; Chief, Re-
Shimbun now), 1921; Managing Editor,
Japanese Newspapers. Address: 20
search Section, the same, 1942; joined
1934; Director, 1937; Editor-in-Chief,
Asaka-machi, Komagone, Bunkyo-ku,
The Niigata Nippo, and appointed
1942; Managing Director, 1942; Vice-
Tokyo.
Managing Editor, 1944; made Managing
President, 1945; Pres., 1945. Publica-
ONO, Shizuma
Director, 1944; Managing Editor &
tions: wrote much about economy.
Editorial Writer, 1945; reelected Direc-
Address: 388, Unoki-cho, Chofu, Ota-
Managing Editor, The Shin Kyushu
tor, 1946. Address: 21-5932, Samban-
ku, Tokyo.
Shimbun; b. 1895,.Kumamoto Pref.;
cho, Kakko-cho-dori, Niigata City, Nii-
Career: had no school education; City
gata Pref.
OCHIAI, Morihei
Editor, The Mainichi Shimbun (West),
Pres., The Shin Hokkai Shimbun; b.
1935; Chief, Communication Section,
NISHIMURA, Michitaro
1885, Tochigi Pref.; Career: grad.
1943; quitted the office, 1946; appoint-
Managing Director, The Asahi Shim-
Tokyo Agricultural Univ., 1907; Secre-
ed to the present position, 1946.
bun (Osaka); b. 1895, Osaka; Career:
tary General, Sapporo Chamber Com-
Address: 227-2, Asahi-machi,
Moji
grad. Waseda Univ., 1919; Chief, Com-
merce; News Editor, Nagoya Broad-
City, Fukuoka Pref.
munication Dept, The Asahi Shimbun
casting Station; News Editor, Sapporo
ONO, Toshio
(Osaka), 1937; Chief, Asahi Shimbun's
Broadcasting Station; Director, The
Bur. in Manila, 1942; Economic News
Editor, 1943; Assistant Managing Edi-
Nishi, Odori, Sapporo City.
Shin Hokkai Shimbun. Address: 3-15,
Univ. economics, 1921; joined The Jiji
Purged; b. Tokyo; Career: grad. Keio
tor, 1943; made Director, 1946.
Shimpo, 1924; sent to London as foreign
Address: 24, Nishimachi, Tojiin, Kami-
OGISHIMA, Ryoichi
correspondent, 1928; General Manager,
kyo-ku, Kyoto City, Kyoto.
Managing Director, Radio Press; b.
Editorial Dept, 1930; joined The Shim-
bun Rengo and appointed Chief, Hsink-'
1915, Seattle, U.S.A.; Career: grad.
NISHIMURA, Toraji
National Radio Institute, Seattle,
ing Bur. 1933; joined Domei News
Managing Director and Business
U.S.A.; Special Official, Foreign Office
Agency and appointed Chief, Hsinking
Manager, The Sannin Nichinichi Shim-
1941—1945. Address: 58, Toyosawa-
Bur.; 1936 Director, Manchuquo News
bun; b. 1883, Tottori Pref.; Career:
cho, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
Agency, 1937; pres., The Manchurian
grad. Tokyo Higher Agricultural
Daily, 1938; Managing Director, Shonan
School, 1904; Director, The Shimane
OKAMURA, Niichi
Press Association, 1934; General Man-
Shimbun then Director, The Sunnin
Pres., Rubina Cosmetics Mfg. Co.; b.
ager, Kyodo News Service, 1945.
Nichinichi Shimbun. Address: 116,
1904, Nagano Pref.; Career: grad. Toyo
Address: 89-1, Hirochi Sakurayama,
Minami Tamachi, Matsue City, Shi-
Univ., 1924; joined The Manchoho,
Yokosuka City, Kanagawa Pref.
mane Pref.
1925; joined Shimbun Rengo, 1928;
OSHIMA, Ichie
joined Shimbun Rengo, 1928; joined
NOGUCHI, Jihachi
Director and Supt., Mech. Dept., The
Domei News Agency, 1936; sent to
Managing Director, The Saga Shim-
Berlin, 1941; Director, Japan Press
Tokyo Shimbun; b. 1905, Ishikawa
bun; b. 1912, Saga Pref.; Career: grad.
Assn., 1942; Managing Director, Japan
Pref.; Career: grad. Kyoto Univ., eco-
Saga Middle School, 1929; joined The
Newspaper Corporation (semiofficial),
nomics, 1928; Director and General
Hizen Nichinichi Shimbun, 1929 and
1944; founded The Tokyo Times and
Manager, The Kokumin Shimbun,
quitted the office, 1931; joined The
made Managing Director, 1946; quitted
1935; Managing Director and General
Saga Shimbun, 1931; Business Man-
the office with falling under purge
Manager, The Kokumin Shimbun,, 1935;
ager, 1933; General Manager, 1946;
directive, 1947. Address: 296-3, Hara-
Manager Directof and General Man-
Managing Director, 1947. Address:
juku, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
ager of the same, 1938; Director, The
592, Kamino-machi, Saga City, Safa
Tokyo Shimbun, 1943; Director and
Pref.
OMORI, Tomi
Superintendent, Mech. Dept., the same,
Vice-Pres., Managing Editor and
1945. Address: 4-32, Shinano-machi,
NOGUCHI, Yoshiaki
Superintendent, Mech.
Dept., The
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo.
Managing Editor, The Sannin Nichi-
Shimane Shimbun; b. 1891, Shimane
nichi Shimbun; b. 1896, Tottori Pref.;
Pref.; Career: grad.
Agricultural
OTAJIMA, Sadakichi
Career: grad. Waseda Univ., economics,
School, 1907; Chief,
Communica-
Pres., The Nihonkeizai Shimbun; b.
1923; City Editor, The Miyako Shim-
tion Section, The Mainichi Shimbun
1890, Iwate Pref.; Career: grad.
bun. Address: Odaka, Otaka-mura,
(West), 1924; Managing Editor, 1940;
Waseda Univ., literature, 1916; joined
Saiki-gun, Tottori Pref.
Chief, Branch Office in Nagoya; Chief,
The Chugai Shimpo, 1918; City Editor,
Mech. Dept., The Mainichi Shimbun
1927; Managing Editor, 1942; Manag-
NOGUCHI, Yoshio
(Tokyo) 1943; Business Manager, The
ing Director, 1945; President, 1948. (Ed.
Managing Director & General Man-
Sun Shashin Shimbun, 1946; appoint-
The Chugai Shogyo-shimpo changed
ager, The Nishi Nihon Shimbun; b.
ed to the present position, Sept., 1947.
its name twice, and became The Nihon
1900, Tokyo; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
Address: 18, Minami-tamachi, Matsue
Sangyo Keizai in 1942 and The Nihon
law, 1929; joined Nihon Dempo Tsu-
City, Shimane Pref.
Keizai Shimbun after the end of war).
shinsha, 1929 and worked at the office
Address: 807-3, Amanuma, Suginami-
till 1935; joined The Fukuoka Nichi-
ONO, Hideo
ku, Tokyo.
nichi Shimbun, 1929; appointed Ad.
Pres. The Newspaper Institute of
Manager; joined The Nishi Nihon
Tokyo Univ., b. 1885, Shiga Pref.;
OTAKE, Sadao
Shimbun and appointed Business Man-
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., Literature,
Editor, English News Section, Kyodo
ager, 1945; made Director, 1946; Direc-
1910, Reporter, The Manchoho, 1911-
News Service; b. 1913, San Francisco,
tor & General Manager, 1947. Address:
1913; Reporter, The Tokyo Nichinichi
Calif., U.S.A.; Career: grad. New York
c/o Oke, 8-3, Imaizumi, Fukuoka City,
Shimbun, 1916-1922, Instructor Tokyo
Univ., 1938; Domei News Agency's
Fukuoka Pref.
Univ., 1925; Chief, The Newspaper In-
New York Correspondent, 1933—1940.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
62
WHO'S WHO
Address: 144, Shoan Kitamachi, Sugi-
law; Assistant Professor, Tokyo Univ.,
SHIMIZU, Ikutaro
nami-ku, Tokyo.
Special Official, Foreign Office; Edi-
Chief, The Institute of the 20th Cen-
torial Writer, The Asahi Shimbun
tury; Instructor, Tohoku Univ.; b. 1907,
OYA, Kusuo
(Tokyo); Instructor, Kyushu' Univ.;
Tokyo; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., lite-
Enterprise Manager, The Jiji Press;
Member of Councillors' House; Pres.,
rature, 1931; Editorial Writer, 1941—
b. 1909, Fukuoka Pref.; Career: grad.
The Kumamoto Nichinichi Shimbun.
1945. Publications: Society and Indi-
Lyon Univ., France; appointed Assis-
Publications: Political Phenomena, De-
vidual, Lectures on Sociology and some
tani City Editor, Domei News Agency;
velopment and trend of Japanese Poli-
other 30 books. Address: 2169-5, Kami-
assigned to Nihon Hoso Kyokai (Japan
tics, Tragidical History of Modern
takaido, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Broadeasting Corporation) and ap-
Japanese Politics, etc.
pointed Chief, Forcign News Section,
SHIMODA, Masami
1944; founded The Jiji Press, and ap-
SAWAMURA, Yoshio
Director, America-Japan Press; b.
pointed Political News Editor; appoint-
Director and Managing Editor, The
1890, Tokyo; Career: grad. Keio Univ.,
ed Chief Librarian, 1946; Enterprise
Osaka Shimbun; b. 1907, Kyoto; Career:
1914; Economic News Editor, The Jiji
Manager, 1946. Publications: War
grad. Keio Univ., literature, 1934; join-
Shimpo; Managing Director, The Mai-
Time Diplomacy in Near East and the
ed The Osaka Jiji Shimbun, 1934; Eco-
nichi Shimbun. Publications: Revolu-
Balkans; Occupation of French Indo-
nomic News Editor, The Osaka Shim-
tionary Movements in World Economy;
China; On Politics of Turkey; The
bun, 1942; Assistant Managing Editor,
From the Economic Point of View,
Night before the Termination of Hos-
1943; Managing Editor, 1945; Director,
Etc. Address: 1945, Ikeko, Zushi-
tilities. Address: 107, Seijo-machi,
1943. Address: 340, Higashi-inukai,
machi, Yokosuka City, Kanagawa Pref.,
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
Takagi, Nishimaya City, Hyogo Prof.
SHIMOJO, Yuzo
SAITO, Joji
SETO, Yasutaro
Editor-in-Chief, The Tokyo Times;
B.S.; Home News Editor, The Radio
Pres., The Shin Osaka Shimbun; b.
b. 1900, Aomori Pref.; Career: grad.
Press; b. 1916, Alaska, U.S.A.; Career:
1890, Tokushima Pref.; Career: had no
Seikei Commercial College, 1922; Chief,
grad. Californian Univ., politics, 1937;
school education; engaged in newspa-
Shanghai Branch Office for Nihon
special official, Foreign Office, 1941—
per business for over 40 years; found-
Dempo Tsushinsha; sent to Europe as
1942; served Domei News Agency,
ed The Shin Osaka Shimbun, 1946.
Domei News Agency's correspondent;
1942—1945, Address: 926-4, Asagaya,
Chief Editorial Writer, The Tokyo
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
SHIBA, Kimpei
Times. Address' 409-3, Mabashi, Sugi-
Director & Executive Editor, The
nami-ku, Tokyo.
SAITO, Takeshi
Japan Times; b. 1904, Honolulu, T.H.,
SHIMOMURA, Hiroshi
Editor-in-Chief, The
Fukushima
U.S.A.; Career: grad. Canadian Aca-
Purged; b. 1875, Wakayama Pref.;
Minyu Shimbun; b. 1896, Fukushima
demy, Kobe, 1936; Correspondent in
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1898;
Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda Univ., cco-
Japan for the Chicago Tribune; joined
served with the Ministry of Communi-
nomics, 1922; worked as a reporter for
The Nippon Times, 1941. Address:
cation and the General Government of
20 years with The Mainichi Shimbun.
25-1, Akazutsumi-machi, Setagaya-ku,
Formosa for years; Vice-President of
Address: 9, Nakama-machi, Fukushima
Tokyo.
The Asahi Shimbur; Member of Peers'
City, Fukushima Pref.
SHIGETA, Mitsuharu
House; Pres., Japan Broadcasting Cor-
SAKAMOTO, Reitaro
Pres., The Shizuoka Shimbun; b.
poration; State Minister and Pres., The
Director and Managing Editor, The
1908, Tokyo; Career: grad. Tokyo
Information Board, Suzuki Cabinet at
Shinano Mainichi Shimbun; b. 1904;
Univ.; Reporter, The Shizuoka Minyu
the time of the Japanese capitulation
Nagano Pref.; Career: left Toyo Univ.
Shimbun; Director, Shizuoka Chamber
in the 2nd World War; Instructor, the
without finishing tle whole course,
of Commerce; General Manager, The
universities of Hosei, Chuo, Waseda
1923; joined The Shinano Mainichi
Shizuoka Shimbun. Address: 166-3,
and Tokyo Commerce. Address: 22-3,
Shimbun, 1923; appointed to the pre-
Kita-ando-machi, Shizuoka City, Shi-
Denenchofu, Ota-ku, Tokyo.
sent position, 1946.
Address: 650,
zuoka Pref.
SHINOBU, Kanichiro
Nishi-nagano, Nagano City, Nagano
SHIKIBA, Ryuzaburo
Managing Editor, The Asahi Shim-
Pref.
Dr. of Medicine; Managing Director,
bun (Osaka); b. 1900, Tokyo; Career:
The Tokyo Times; b. 1898, Niigata
grad. Waseda Univ., politics, 1925;
SAKURAI, Aiji
Managing Director (in charge of
Pref.; Career: grad. Niigata Medical
Chief, Asahi's Branch Office in Kyoto,
financial affairs), NHK (Japan Broad-
Univ., 1921; Chief, Shizuoka Hospital
1940; Chief, Asahi's Branch Office in
for Brain Diseases; Chief, Konodai
Keijo, 1943; Chief, Communication
casting Corporation); b. 1893, Tokyo;
Hospital for Brain Diseases; Managing
Section, The Asahi Shimbun (West);
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., cconomics,
Director, the Institute of Japanese
Managing Editor, 1946. Address: c/o
1918; served with The Mitsui Bank and
Folks' Arts. Publications: Mental Dis-
T Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 3-3, Naka-
Teikoku Bank for years. Address: 834,
Yoyogi-honmachi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
ease and this Life of Van Goh, The
noshima, Kita-ku. Osaka City.
Life and Art of Lautrec. Address: c/o
SASAKI, Hideo
Konodai Hospital, Kokubun, Ichikawa
SHINOHARA, Takateru
Pres. and Managing Editor, The
City, Chiba Pref.
Managing Director and. Managing
Managawa Shimbun; b. 1896, Tokyo;
Editor, The Tokushima Mimpo; b. 1905,
Career: grad. Komazawa Univ., 1918;
SHIMIZU, Harushiro
Tokushima Pref.; Career: grad. Chuo
Chief, Communication Section, The
Pres., The Shin Shimabara Shimbun;
Univ.,t1916; Assistant Copy-desk Edi-
Asahi Shimbun (Tokyo); then Advisor
b. 1898, Nagasaki Pref.; Career: had
tor, The Mainichi Shimbun (Tokyo).
to the same. Address: 567, Wakaba-
no school education; served with The
Address: Hoirie-mura, Itano-gun, Toku-
yashi-cho, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
Asahi Shimbun (Osaka) and The
shima Pref.
Nagasaki Nichinichi Shimbun, then ap-
SASSA, Hiroo
pointed to the present position.
SHIRAISHI, Kokyo
Died in Oct., 1948. b. 1897, Kuma-
Address: 865, Kaminomachi, Shimabara
Pres., The Kyoto Shimbun; b. 1898,
moto Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo Univ.,
City, Nagasaki Pref.
Nara Pref.; Career; grad. Tokyo Univ.,

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
WWHMSSOHHO
economics, 1922; Pres., The Jiron-sha
kyo Kaisei Middle School, 1921; served
kyo Nichinichi Shimbun and Osaka
Pres., The Kyoto Shimbun; Member,
with the Shin Aichi Shimbun, and
Mainichi Shimbun; quitted the office,
Newsprint
AllocationCommittee.
then joined The Chubu Nihon Shim-
1945. Address: 2932, Nishihama, Kata
Address: 653, Somedono-machi, Hiro-
bun, being appointed Auditor. Address:
se-machi, Fujisawa City, Kanagawa
koji, Nashiki-cho, Kamikyo-ku, Tokyo
24-2, Tsuruhane-machi,
Showa-ku,
Pref.
City.
Nagoya City, Aichi Pref.
TAKAHASHI, Shinzo
SHOBARA, Toru
SUZUKI, Bunshiro
Manager, Editorial Dept., The Mai-
Director and Editor-in-Chief, The
Editor, Readers' Digest, Japanese
nichi Shimbun (Osaka); b. 1901, To-
Tokyo Mimpo; b. 1893, Univ., law, 1923;
Edition; b. 1890, Tokyo; Served with
kyo; Career: grad. Keio Univ., econo-
Secretary General, Yamaguchi Pref.;
the Asahi Shimbun for twenty-nine
mics, 1924; joined The Mainichi Shim-
Career: grad, Tokyo Kanto Chapter,
years, leaving the same, 1945; Prin-
bun (Osaka), 1928; Economic News
Japan Peasants' Union; Secretary Gen-
cipal posts held were foreign corres-
Editor, The Mainichi Shimbun (West)
eral, Tokyo Institute of Politics and
pondent (England, France and Amer-
1941; Local News Editor, The Mainichi
Economy; served with the Editorial
ica), Editor, The Asahi Shimbun (To-
Shimbun (Osaka), 1945; Assistant
Department, Domei News Agency;
kyo), Manager of Publication Dept.,
Managing Editor and Economic News
Special Official, Foreign Office. Pub-
Managing Director. Address: 490-1,
Editor, 1947; General Manager, Edi-
lications: on Peasants' Union. Address:
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
torial Department, 1947. Address:
Shikoku-kogyo's house, Kawabata,
1500-2, Araijuku, Ota-ku, Tokyo.
SUZUKI, Mitsuo
Higashi-takeya-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto
General Manager, The Radio Press;
SHORIKI, Matsutaro
b. 191, Shizuoka Pref.; Career: grad.
City.
Purged; b. 1885, Toyama Pref.;
Keio Univ., literature, 1939; Instructor,
TAKAISHI, Shingoro
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law; served
The Institute of Foreign Languages,
b. 1878, Chiba Pref.; Career: grad.
the Ministry of Home Affairs, 1913—
Foreign Ministry, 1939—1944. Address:
Keio Univ., law, 1901; Editor-in-Chief
1924; appointed the President of The
250, Mukobara-cho, Meguro-ku, Tokyo.
The Osaka Mainichi Shimbun and The
Yomiuri Shimbun, 1924; then control-
led a number of newspapers such as
SUZUKI, Sotaro
Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun; Pres. The
The Kyushu Nippo, The Sanin Shim-
Advisor, Sports Desk, The Yomiuri
Mainichi Shimbun retired from the
bun, The Nagasaki Nichinichi Shim-
Shimbun; b. 1890, Gumma Pref. stu-
office, 1945, due to purge directive.
bun, The Hochi Shimbun, The Shizu-
dicd with Columbia Univ., New York
Publications: Woman and Wisdom of
oka Shimbun, The Shimane Shimbun,
City, U.S.A., 1921—1923; engaged in
Japan (English, published in London),
The Osaka Shimbun, ctc.; purged 16
Japanese-American trade, 1926—1929;
Japan Speaks Out (English). Address:
December 1945; Address: 1990, Shin-
affiliated with The Yomiuri Shimbun,
chinomiya-machi, Chosei-gun, Chiba
juku, Zushi-machi, Yokosuka City,
1931 and made efforts to invite All
Pref.
Kanagawa Prefecture.
American Base-ball team to Japan;
TAKANO, Iwasaburo
concerned in Japan League of Profes-
SONODA, Jiro
sional Base-ball teams since 1936. Pub-
LL.D., Pres., NHK (Japan Broadcast-
Assistant Managing
Editor, Thè
lications; published some ten books
ing Corporation); b. 1871, Tokyo; Care-
Asahi Shimbun (West), and General
on base-ball. Address: 27, Ikebukuro,
er: grad. Tokyo Univ., politics, 1895;
Manager, Fukuoka Branch Office of the
Naka-ku, Yokohama City Kanagawa.
Advisor, Statistics Bur., Cabinet; In-
same; b. 1900, Tokyo; Career: grad.
structor, Tokyo Univ., Chief, the Ohara
Toa Dobun-shoin, Shanghai, 1923;
TABATA, Masaji
Institute of Social Problems. 'Address:
joined The Asahi Shimbun, 1926; Edi-
Director, The Asahi Shimbun, and
327, Shin-machi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
torial Writer, 1941—1944; East Asian
Representative, The Asahi Shimbun
News Editor, 1945; Assistant Managing
(Tokyo); b. 1898, Shizoka Pref.; Care-
TAKANO, Makoto
Editor, The Asahi Shimbun (West);
er: grad. Tokyo), 1924; Uolitical eco-
Managing Editor, The Asahi Shim-
General Manager, Fukuoka Branch
nomic News Editor, 1942; Assistna
bun (Tokyo); b. 1903, Tokyo; Career:
Office, 1946. Addess: c/o KUSAKABE,
Managing Editor, 1945; made Director,
grad. Tokyo Univ., economics, 1929;
6, Nishi-sumiyoshi, Fukuoka City.
1947: Representative, The Asahi Shim-
joined The Asahi Shimbun (Osaka),
bun (Tokyo), 1947. Address: c/o
1929; Chief, Communication Dept., The
SUDO, Jiro
Sakai, 105-1, Mine-machi,
Chofu,
Asahi Shimbun (Tokyo), 1944; Manag-
Director and Managing Editor, The
Omori-ku, Tokyo.
ing Editor, 1946. Address: 161, Yukino-
Godo Shimbun; b. 1894, Okayama Pref.;
shita, Kamakura City, Kanagawa Pref.
Career: grad. Kanagawa Middle School,
TAKABATAKE, Naosada
Okayama Pref., 1913; Chief Editorial
Director & Editor-in-Chief, The
TAKASHIMA, Saichiro
Writer, The Godo Shimbun, 1945; Audi-
Kahoku Shimpo. b. 1900, Tochigi Pref.
Director and Editor-in-Chief, The
tor, 1945; Managing Editor, 1946; Direc-
Career: grad. Keio Univ., economics,
Chubu Keizai Shimbun, and Editorial
tor, 1946. Address: Yuge, Kumayama-
1926; joined The Chugai-shogyo-shim-
Writer, The Chubu Nihon Shimbun;
mura, Wake-gun, Okayama Pref.
po, 1926, and quitted the office, 1933;
b. 1884, Ibaraki Pref.; Career: grad.
joined The Yomiuri Shimbun, 1933;
SUGIMOTO, Shigeaki
joined The Akita Sagigake Shimbun,
Tokyo Commercial Univ., 1911; sent to
Pres. and Managing Editor, The Saga
1945, and quitted the office in the same
America; Britain, France and Switzer-
Shimbun; b. 1905, Saga Pref.; Career:
year; joined the Kahoku Shimpo, 1946.
land to study economic science by
grad. Tokyo Univ., 1931; joined The
Address: 42, Yashiki, Koizumi, Mina-
Education Ministry, 1916; Instructor,
Yomiuri Shimbun, 1932; Assistant
mi, Sendai City, Miyagi Pref.
Nagoya Commercial College, 1921—
Political News Editor, 1937; quitted the
1942; Director, the Economic Science
office, 1945, and joined The Saga Shim-
TAKADA, Motosaburo
Institute of Toyo Spinning Co., 1942—
bun. Address: Aichi-machi, Higashi
Representat.ve, The Nichibei Tsu-
1945; Editorial Writer, The Chubu
Matsuura-gun, Saga Pref.
shin-sha; b. 1894, Tokyo; Career: grad.
Nihon Shimbun 1945; Director and
Tokyo Univ., literature, 1917; joined
Editor-in-Chief, The Chubu Keizai
SUGIYAMA, Toranosuke
The Mainichi Shimbun (Osaka), 1917;
Shimbun, 1946.
Address: 7-2, Maruya-
Pres., The Chubu Nihon Shimbun;
sent to New York and London as cor-
cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya City, Aiohi
b. 1904, Aichi Pref.; Career: grad. To-
respondent; Managing Editor, The To-
Pref.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 1.00)
64
WHO'S WHO
TAKEHANA, Yukichi
Times, 1934; joined The Sorachi Shim-
cial Official, Foreign Ministry, 1943
Pres., The Akita Sakigake Shimbun;
bun (Weekly), 1946; Copy-desk editor.
1945. Address: 39, Imazato-cho, Shiro
b. 1889, Akita Pref.; Career: grad.
The Hokkai Times, 1946. Address:
gane, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo.
Waseda Univ., law, 1913; Director &
Homachidori, Tsukigata-mura, Kabato-
Managing Editor, The Akita Sakigake
gun, Hokkaido.
WAKAMATSU, Jintaro
Shimbun, 1939; Managing Editor, 1944;
Auditor and Deputy. Business Mana-
Pres., 1946. Address: 35, Takasho-
TOGASAKI, Kiyoshi
ger, The Nippon Timés; b. 1893, Tokyo;
machi, Akita City, Akita Pref.
B.S., 1920; Pres., The Nippon Times,
Career: Circulation Manager, The
Pres., International Press Club, Execu-
Japan Advertiser, 1929—1940; joined
TAKEUCHI, Norio
tive Committee, America Japan So-
The Nippon Times, 1940. Address: 10-
Director and Managing Editor, The
ciety; b. 1895, San Francisco, Calif.,
2, Shin-ogawa-machi, Shinjuku-ku, To-
Yukan Mie; b. 1911, Mie Pref.; Career:
U.S.A.; Career: grad. University of
kyo.
grad. Mie Pref. Middle School, 1929;
California, Berkley, Calif., U.S.A., 1920;
joined The Ise Shimbun, 1931; appoint-
Vice-Pres., Mutual Supply Co., San
WASHIO, Koji
ed News Editor, 1946; appointed to the
Francisco, Calif., U.S.A., 1923-1933; Ex-
Managing Director (in charge of
present position, 1947. Address: 194,
ecutive Secretary, World Conference
enterprises), NHK; b. 1886, Mie Pref.;
Sakurajaya, Komori, Tsu City, Mie
Committee, Seventh Bienniel Confer-
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., law, 1911;
Pref.
ence of the World Federation of Educa-
Director, The Board of Pensions; De-
tion Associations, 1936—1938; Japanese
puty Mayor, Tokyo; Auditor, the Sho-.
TANAKA, Johei
Commission, New York World's Fair
nan Electric Railway Co.; Director, the
Managing Director, The
Nagasaki
1939—1940, San Francisco New York
Keihin Electric Railway Co. Address:
Minyu Shimbun; b. 1888, Nagasaki
International Exposition Association,
Daikanyama Apartment House, 10,
Pref.; Career: joined The Nagasaki
1938-1940; joined The Nippon Times,
Daikanyama-cho, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
Minyu Shimbun, 1939; joined The
1941. Address: 168-1.
Amanuma,
Nagasaki Shimbun which was created
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
WATARI, Torakichi
according to the principle "onè news-
Pres., The Hokkai Times; b. 1890,
paper for one prefecture"; made
TOKI, Zemmaro
Fukui Pref.; Career: grad. Waseda
Managing Director, The Nagasaki Min-
Instructor, Waseda Univ.; b. 1879,
Univ., economics, 1919; joined The
yu Shimbun which was re-born after
Tokyo; Career: grad. Waseda Univ.,
Hokkai Times, 1920; Superintendent,
the end of war. Address: 555, Atago-
1908; Editor, The Asahi Shimbun (To-
Mech. Dept., 1944; Director, 1945; Gen-
cho, Nagasaki City, Nagasaki Pref.
kyo); quitted the office, 1940. Ad-
eral Manager, 1946; was made Pres.,
dress: 801-1, Shimomeguro, Meguro-ku,
The Hokkai Times, 1946. Address: 10-
TANAKA, Kotaro
3, Juyonjo, Sapporo City, Hokkaido.
Pres., The Shikoku Shimbun; b.
TONE, Takeo
1892, Tottori Pref.; Career: had no.
Editor-in-Chief, The Hakodate Shim-
YAJIMA, Yasuo
school education; served with The
bun; b. 1915, Hokkaido; Career: grad.
General Manager, The Asahi Shim-
Asahi Shimbun for twenty-six years,
Hakodate Mercantile Marine School,
bun (Tokyo); b. 1900, Nagano Pref.;
and appointed Assistant Business
1933; joined The Otaru Shimbun, 1941;
Career: grad. Tokyo Univ., politics,
Manager; made Managing Director, The
Editor, Otaru Branch Office, The Hok-
1924; joined The Tokyo Asahi Shim-
Shikoku Shimbun, 1945; Pres., 1946.
kaido Shimbun, 1942; Assistant City
bun, 1924; Chief, Communication Sec-
Address: 692, Kusugami-cho, Taka-
Editor, The Hokkaido Shimbun, 1945;
tion, 1939; Copy-desk Editor, The Asahi
matsu City, Kagawa Pref.
Managing Editor and News Editor, The
Shimbun (Osaka), 1940; Assistant
TANAKA, Nariyuki
Hokkai Times, 1946. Address: 63-1,
Managing Auditor, 1942; Foreign News
Aioi-cho, Otaru City, Hokkaido.
Editor, 1943; Managing Editor, 1945;
Managing Director, The Nishi Nihon
General Manager, 1946. Address: c/o
Shimbun; b. 1896, Fukuoka Pref.;
TSUDA, Masao
Ishizaki, 504-3, Asagaya, Suginami-ku,
Career: grad. Waseda Univ., 1920; join-
Secretary General, The Japan News-
Tokyo.
ed The Asahi Shimbun (Osaka), 1920;
paper Publishers' & Editors' Assn.; b.
joined The Chosen Shimbun, and
1897, Tokyo; Career: grad. Kyoto Univ.,
YAMAGUCHI, Kotaro
changed to The Fukuoka Nichinichi
economics, 1922; served Social Section,
Pres., The Yukan Kyoto Shibun; b.
Shimbun, 1921; General Manager, Pei-
Interior Ministry; served The Office of
1895, Nara Pref.; Career: had no school
ping Office, 1923; Chief, Bur. for North
International Labor Organization; Sec-
education higher than elementary
Kyushu, The Nishi Nihon Shimbun,
retary, International Labor Bur.; Do-
school course; engaged in sales of
1943; General Manager, Editorial Dept.,
mei News Agency's correspondent in
newspaper for years. Address: 499,
1945; Director and General Manager,
Buesnosaires. Address: 829, Wada-
Rokuya-cho, Moto-seiganji, Ogawa-
1945; Managing Director, 1946. Ad-
honmachi, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
dori, Kami-kyo-ku, Kyoto City.
dress: 27, Shin Karibayashi-cho, Fuku-
oka City.
TSUKADA, Ippo
YAMAHATA, Keinosuke
Managing Director, The Mainichi
Pres., The Sun Shashin Shimbun,
TANIGUCHI,Hisakichi
Shimbun; b. 1897, Nagano Pref.; Career:
Pres., The Sun News Photos, Pres.,
Pres., The Sanyo Shimbun; b. 1889,
grad. Waseda Univ., 1923; joined The
The Kokusai Senden Kigyo Co., Vice-
Okayama Pref.; Career: grad. Taisei-
Mainichi Shimbun, 1923; Economic
Pres., Subaru Kogyo Co.; b. 1887, Fukui
kan Middle School, 1908; Director, The
News Editor, 1943; Chief, the 1st sec-
Pref.; had no school education. Ad-
Bank of Chugoku, 1938; Vice-Pres., the
tion, the Board of Information, 1944;
dress: 18-1, Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo.
same, 1946; quitted the bank and made
re-joined The Mainichi Shimbun and
· Pres., The Sanyo Shimbun, 1947. Ad-
appointed Deputy Managing Editor,
YAMAMURO, Jiro
dress: 118, Kunitomi, Okayama City,
1947. Address: 190, Kutsukake-machi,
Managing Director, The Chubu Nihon
Okayama Pref.
Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Shimbun; b. 1902, Nagano Pref.; Care-
er: grad. Nihon Univ., 1929; served
TERAMOTO, Kaio
UEHARA, Noboru
with The Nagoya Shimbun and then
Managing Editor, The Hokkai Times;
Business Manager, The Radio Press;
with The Chubu Nihon Shimbun. Ad-
b..1904, Hokkaido; Career: grad. Meiji
b. 1920, Honolulu, Hawaii; Career: grad.
dress: 4188, Kobata, Moriyama-cho,
Univ., law, 1929; joined The Hokkai
Business College, Honolulu, 1938; Spe-
Higashi-kasugai-gun, Aichi Pref.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
WHO'S WHO
YAMANE, Shinjiro
YASUO, Nagaharu
dustrial College, 1922; Chief, the Toch
Advisor to The Tokushima Shimbun;
English News Editor, The Jiji Press;
nical Dept., The Asahi Shimbun
b. 1884, Yamaguchi Prof.; Career: grad.
b. 1909, Tokyo; Career: grad. Tokyo
(Tokyo), 1938; Assistant Chief, Print
Chuo Univ., 1907; Managing Editor and
Commercial Univ., 1931; joined The
ing Section, The Asahi Shimbun
Vice-Pres., The Kokumin Shimbun;
Shimbun Rengo, 1932; assigned to In-
(West); Chief, Printing Section, The
Dean of the School of Journalism;
ternational Secretariat Institute of
Asahi Shimbun (Osaka); made Direc
Director, The Tokyo Shimbun. Ad-
Pacific Relations, New York, 1938; as-
tor, 1946. Address: 34, Tamagashira,
dress: 139, Sangenjaya, Setagaya-ku,
signed to Domei News Agency's Bur.
Kawashima, Ukyo-ku, Kyoto City.
Tokyo.
in New York, 1940; Foreign News
YOSHIDA, Kakuichi
Editor, 1944; joined The Jiji Press,
YAMANOUCHI, Tosuke
1945 and appointed to the present-posi-
Managing Director, The Ise Shim-
Managing Editor, The Sekai Nippo;
tion. Address: 60, Mama, Ichikawa.
bun; b. 1894, Mie Pref.; Career: had
b. 1906, Saga Pref.; Career: grad.
City, Chiba Pref.
no school education higher than ele-
mentary school course; joined The Ise
Waseda Univ., 1928; reporter, The Kyu-
YASUOKA, Tetsuzo
Shimbun, 1917; was made Director and
shu Nippo; Associate Political News
Director and Managing Editor, The
appointed Circulation Manager; ap-
Editor, The Kokumin Shimbun; Manag-
ing Editor, The Nihon Shimbun-po.
Yukan Kyoto Shimbun; b. 1908,- Fuku-
pointed Auditor, 1942; was made Di-
Address: 368-1, Chiyoda-cho, Setagaya-
oka Pre.; Career: left Waseda College
rector, 1945; appointed to the present
ku, Tokyo.
without finishing the whole course;
position, 1947. Address: Minamide,
Copy-desk Editor, The Toa Shimpo,
Yamato-mura, Isshi-gun, Mie Pref.
Managing Editor, The Toa Shimpo in
YAMASHITA, Tadashi
YOSHINAGA, Kajio
Auditor, The Asahi Shimbun; b.
Tientsin, China. Address: 26 Nabe-
Managing Editor, The Shikoku Shim-
1902, Hyogo Pref.; Career: grad. To-
shima-cho, Fushimi-ku, Kyoto City.
bun; b. 1897, Okayama Pref.; served
kyo Univ., economics, 1928; joined The
with The Asahi Shimbun for years.
YOKOTA, Minoru
Asahi Shimbun (Tokyo), 1928; Super-
Pres., The Sekai Keizai Shimbun; b.
Address: 158, Tenjinmae, Takamatsu
intendent, Editorial Dept., 1944; Ac-
1894, Tochigi Pref.; Career: left Nippon
City, Kagawa Pref.
count Master, 1946; was made Auditor,
1946. Address: 504, Nonaka, Hori, Ko-
Univ. without finishing the whole
YOSHINO, Izuo
daira-machi, Kita-tama-gun, Tokyo.
course, 1941; founded Kwantung News
Director and Business Manager, The
Agency, 1923; joined Nihon Dempo
Nippon Times; b. 1890, Shizuoka Pref.;
YANAGAWA, Yojiro
Tsushin-sha, 1924; joined Domei News
Carrer: grad. Arita Public Technical
Foreign News Editor, The Radio
Agency, 1936 and appointed Chief, the
School, Kumamoto Pref.; Secretary,
Press; b. 1916, Portland City, U.S.A.;
agency's bur. in Peiping East Asian
Tokyo Municipal Office (1922—1932);
Career: grad. Northwestern Univ., law,
News Editor, 1937; founded The Sekai
Secretary,
Japanese
Committee,
1937; Special Official, Foreign Ministry,
Keizai Shimbun, 1946 and was made
Seventh Biennial Conference of World
1941—1946. Address: 58, Toyosawa-
the president. Address: 660-7, Kami-
Federation of Education Associations
machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo.
uma-cho, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
(1935—1940); joined The Nippon Times,
1942. Address: 4398-7, Kami-itabashi-
YASUDA, Shoji
YOKOYAMA, Goichi
cho, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo.
Director, Managing Editor and Copy-
Deputy Editor-in-Chief, The Mainichi
desk Editor, The Yomiuri Shimbun; b.
Shimbun, and Managing Editor, The
YOSHIYASU, Shinji
1895, Shiga Pref.; Career: completed
"Economist". Career: grad. Keio Univ.,
Managing Editor, The Kobe Shim-
the 2nd grade of Sophia Univ., 1920;
economics, 1923; joined The Mainichi
bun; b. 1891, Hyogo Pref.; Career:
joined The Tokyo Tsushin-sha, 1920,
Shimbun, 1923, and worked on The
grad. The Institute of Marine Pro-
then served with The Kokumin Shim-
Economist; Assistant Economic News
ducts, 1912; Copy-desk Editor, The
bun and The Jiji Shimpo, and joined
Editor; Editorial Writer; Deputy Edi-
Kobe Shimbun, 1941; Chief, Investiga-
The Yomiuri Shimbun, appointed Eco-
tor-in-Chief, 1945; Managing Editor,
tion Section, 1942; Chief, Examination
nomic News Editor, 1935; Assistant
The Economist, 1946. Address: 428,
Section, 1943; Managing Editor, 1047.
Managing Editor, 1940; quitted the
Honan-cho, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Publications: Nogate in the Transitory
newspaper office and appointed special
World, Re-examine from the rear.
officer of The War Department, 1943;
YOMODA, Yoshishige
Address: 135-5, Kumano-machi, Hyogo-
re-joined The Yomiuri Shimbun, 1943;
Director and Publications Manager,
ku, Kobe City, Hyogo Pref.
advisor to the Editorial Dept., 1946 and
The Yomiuri Shimbun; b. 1887, Saitama
was made director in Dec., the same
Pref.; Career: grad. Chuo Univ., 1909;
ZENTOKU, Nobuji
year. Address: 874-3, Matsubara-cho,
joined The Tokyo Nichinichi Shimbun,
Managing Director and General
Setagaya-ku, Tokyo.
1914; quitted the office, 1929; joined
Manager, The Osaka Shimbun; b. 1891,
The Yomiuri Shimbun, 1929; Editorial
Fukui Pref.; Career: grad. Tokyo
YASUDA, Taro
Writer, 1933; quitted the office, 1942;
Veterinary College, 1911; joined The
Managing Editor, The Sanyo-choho;
was made director, 1946. Address: 99-
Minami Osaka Shimbun, 1928; made
b. 1901, Okayama Pref.; Career: grad.
2, Ogikuzo, Suginami-ku, Tokyo.
Auditor, The Nihon Kogyo Shimbun,
Kansai Middle School; Staff, The Chu-
1939; was made Auditor and General
goku Mimpo; Copy-desk Editor, The
YONEMURA, Masahiro
Manager, The Osaka Shimbun, 1942;
Godo Shimbun. Address: Sosha, So-
Director, The Asahi Shimbun; b.
Managing Director, 1046. Address: 438,
sha-machi, Kibi-gun, Okayama Pref,
1899, Kyoto; Career: grad. Tokyo In-
Iguchido, Ikeda City, Osaka.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
TOKYO DISTRICT
Population—5,000,777
Name of Newspaper.
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classifled &
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation
Name of Pres., Capital
&
(me)—Managing Editor
(cde)-Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Busineks Ma
(gm)General Mana
Special
(pe)—Political News
(am)-Advertisement
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief)
Asahi Shimbun (m)
¥1,600-cl
Asahi-Shimbun
S. Takano (me)
Y. Yajima (gm)
1,358,296.
¥2,000-sp
Co., Ltd.
I. Oka (cde)
D. Nagai (bm)
2-3, Yuraku-cho,
Chu Hasebe, Pres.;
T. Masuda (pee)
S. Morisama (am)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
¥10,000,000
J. Sindo (ce)
S. Shimizu (cm)
Tel. (23) 131-141
G. Imai (fe)
Dailchi Shimbun (e)
¥260-cl
Daiichi-Shimbun
H. Kinoshita (E
100,000
Co., Ltd.
in-Chief)
6-1, Nishi, Ginza,
K. Ogawa;
K. Ogawa (me)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (57) 6497
Pres.;
¥1,500,000
G. Tsukuda (cde)
S. Takimoto (pee)
H. Fujimoto (ce)
Jiji Shimpo (m)
¥450-cl
Jiji-Shimpo Co., Ltd.
S. Aritake (me)
M. Karino (gm)
264,500
T. Itakura, Pres.;
N. Iwasa (cde)
4-2, Yurakucho,
¥5,000,000
S. Kawada (pe)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
T. Uchiumi (ee)
Tel (57) 6,611-3
K. Imai (ce)
3-3, Ginza,
Hochi Shimbun (e)
400,000
¥450-sp
¥170-cl
Hochi Shimbun
Co. Ltd.
T. Toshio (e. in chief)
T. Kuriyama (me)
K. Hattanda (bm)
M. Yiyauchi (am)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
K. Hattanda, Pres.;
S. Haneda (cde)
M. Mitani (cm)
Tel. (56) 7888
¥1,000,000
T. Togashi (pee)
R. Yokokawa (ce)
Jiji Tsushin
Shiseikaikan-nai,
Jiji Tsushin, Co., Ltd.
T. Adachi (me)
T. Kamimura (gm)
S. Hasegawa, Pres.;
H. Kinoshita (pe)
No. 2,
Hibiya-park,
¥1,000,000
T. Murata (ee)
K. Minafuji (ce)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
T. Ishida (East. e)
Tel. (57) 6161-8

=== Page 148 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employ
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Departme
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS—International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administrat
Manager
AFP—Agency France de
Department
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
N. Niwa (ms)
22 branch
Kagaku Asahi
17 rotary press
41-Assigned to
R. Kaji (pm)
offices & 97 stringers;
(Science Asahi);
machines; 31 type
directly to directors;
I. Okabe (ps)
Kyodo. RP.
Nogyo Asahi
foundings; 6 papier
586-Edit. dept.;
Reuters,
(Agriculture Asahi);
mache moulders;
525-Bus. dept.;
AFP, ANP, AP,
Asahi Hyoron
5 stereo founders;
56-Gen. Adm. dept.;
New York Times
(Asahi Review);
4 photo-types;
186-Pub. Dept.;
The Reduced
3 engravers
166-Welfare Dept.;
Edition of The
637-Print.;
Asahi-Shimbun;
222-Assigned to posts
Undo Nenkan
outside the office;
(Sports Year Book);
2419-Total
Asahi Nenkan
(Asahi Year book);
Asahi Keizai Nenshi
(Asahi Economic
Chronicle); Syukan
Asahi (Asahi Weekly);
Asahi Graph; Asahi
Sports; Kodomo
Asahi (Children's
Asahi); Fujin Asahi
(Women's Asahi)
T. Fukuoka (ps)
1 branch office &
3 rotary press
15-Editorial dept.;
stringers;
machines;
83-Bus. Dept.;
Kyodo, SNP.
20 type founding
70-Gen. Adm. dept.;
10 papier
4-Pub. dept.;
mache moulders;
138-Print. dept.;
2 stereo founders;
11-Assigned to posts
2 photo-types;
outside the office;
2 engravers
462-Total
T. Kuroyama (me)
Kyodo, RP.
11-Assigned to
directly to directors;
35-Edit. dept.;
27-Bus. dept.;
73-Total
9 branch offices &
Sekai Shuho
253-Edit. dept.;
45 stringers;
(World Report,
78-Gen. Adm. dept.;
RP, Kyodo
weekly);
195-Pub. dept.;
Yomimono Jiji
526-Total
(Magazine);
Jiji Eigo Tsushin
(English magazine);
Report

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Kyodo Tsushin
Kyodo Tsushin
G. Matsukata (me)
K. Iwamoto
Shiseikaikan,
No. 2, Hibiya park,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
(Kyodo news service)
Masanori Ito, Pres.
Corporate
M. Arai (pee)
S. Sakata (ce)
S. Tanaka (cde)
M. Kato (fe)
Tel. (57) 2121-2126
T. Tamura (ie)
7101-7105
T. "Hagiwara (ed.
'of feature, S)
S. Tanaka
(Head stringer)
Kogyo Shimbun (m)
¥180-cl
Kogyo Shimbun
S. Sasaki (me)
K. Omata (gm)
30,000
Co., Ltd.
T. Nakano (am)
1-1, Iida-machi,
Masuda, Pres.;
G. Izeki (sm)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
¥195,000
Tel. (33) 5184
Mainichi Shimbun (m) ¥1,600-cl
Mainichi Shimbun
K. Fujiwara
K. Kobayashi (bm)
1,517,498
Co., Ltd.
J. Kusuyama (E. in c.)
S. Yanagi (am)
11-1, Yuraku-cho,
K. Kanda
T. Ueda (me)
S. Lmai (em)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
K. Fujiwara, Pres.;
T. Uetake (cde)
Tel. (23) 4321-0331
¥10,000,000
S. Takahashi (pee)
N. Ishiki (ce)
Y. Tachibana (fe)
Nippon Times (m)
¥600-cl
The Nippon Times
K. Shiba (E in c.)
I. Yoshino (bm)
51,854
Co., Ltd.
G. Murata (me)
1-1, Uchisaiwai-cho,
K. Togasaki, Pres.;
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
¥1,000,000
Tel. (57) 5857
Nihon Keizai Shimbun ¥1100-cl
Nihon Keizai Shimbun, T. Enjoji (me)
T. Fukushima (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Hagi (cde)
K. Fukuda (gm)
313,257
S. Odajima, Pres.;
Z. Takano (pe)
K. Sumikawa (pm)
16-2, Kayaba-cho,
¥5,00,000
K. Nariu (ee)
Nihonbashi,
M. Murago (ce)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (66) 251
Nikkan Sports (m)
¥130-cl
Nikkan Sports
Y. Haruyama (me)
F. Isawa (bm)
3,5000
¥200-sp
Co., Ltd.
4-7, Ginza,
K. Akiyama, Pres.;
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
¥1,000,000
Tel. (57) 7,496
Radio Press
Radio Press Co., Ltd.
Y. Somekawa (me)
K. Nakata (bm)
12-1, Yuraku-cho,
R. Ogijima, Pres.;
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (23) 3692
Sun Shashin
¥300-cl
Sun Shashin Shimbun
Y. Kaneko (me)
T. Tahara (bm)
Shimbun (m)
.Co., Ltd.
S. Yuki (cde)
R. Nakane (am)
110,000
T. Morito, Pres.;
T. Nishiyama (em)
Mainichi-shinkan,
¥180,000
Yuraku-cho,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (23) 5111

=== Page 150 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
6 branch offices &
379-Edit.
53 stringers;
9-Gen, Adm
RP.
196-Head strin
662-Assigned to
outside office
1334—Total
T. Kimura (ms)
5 branch offices &
Kogyo Seiji
2 rotary press
13-Assigned
10 stringers;
(political of industrial); machines
directly to directors;
Kyodo, RP.
56-Edit. dept.;
92-Gen. Adm. dept;
79-Pub. dept.;
65-Print.;
316—Total
K. Watase (ms)
21 branch offices &
Sunday Mainichi;
16 rotary press
8-Assigned to
K. Ishikawa (pm)
127. stringers;
Sekai no Ugoki
machines;
directly to
UP, REUTER,
(World news);
21 type foundings
directors;
AFP, SNP, RP,
Economist;
2 papier mache
562-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo.
Sports Mainichi;
moulders;
459-Gen. Admi.
dept.;
Nosei Hyoron,
3 stereo-founders;
79-Pub. dept.;
(Agriculture Review);
5 photo-types;
583-Mech dept.;
Rodo Hyoron
4 engraves.
237-Bus. Dept.;
(Labour Review);
277-Assigned to posts
Tenji Mainichi
outside the office;
(Mainichi in
2291—Total
braille type);
Shogaku Shimbun
(Primary school
children newspaper);
Mainichi Nenkan
(Mainichi Year Book)
INS,
Rengogun
10 type foundings;
19-Assigned to
RP,
Soshireibu
1 papier mache
directly to directors;
SNP.
Shireishu
moulders;
41-Edit. dept.;
(Directives of
1 stereo founders;
63-Bus. dept.;
SCAP, GHQ);
3 rotary press
48-Mech. dept.;
The Record of
machines;
175—Total
Parliamentary;
N. Yorozu (ms)
40 branch offices &6
5 rotary press
32-Assigned to
stringers;
machines;
directly to directors;
AP, UP, Reuters,
14 type foundings;
197-Edit. dept.;
SNP, Kyodo, RP.
3 papier mache
73-Bus. dept.;
moulders;
69-Gen Admi. dept.;
5 stereo founders;
160-Mech. dept.;
3 photo types
117-Assigned to posts
2 engravers
outside the office;
648—Total
1 branch office,
7-Assigned to directly
Kyodo, SNP.
to directors;
38-edit. dept.;
7-Gen. Admi. dept.;
3-Bus. dept.;
3-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
20—Total.
1 branch
1 type found.
28-editorial dept.;
office.
30-Bus. dept.;
58—Total.
SNP,
21-Assigned to directly
Kyodo
to directors;
29-Edit. dept.;
32-Bus. dept.;
82—Total

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
70,000
Shimbun (m)
lokal Keizal
¥300-cl
Sekai Nippo Co., Ltd.
M. Yokota, Pres.;
¥1,000,000
S. Namita (E in c.)
T. Yamanouchi (me)
K. Yoshioka (cde)
K. Harada (bm)
I. Kitamura (cm)
K. Yoshimura (
T. Ando (fe)
19-8, Kobiki-cho,
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (57) 4111
Shinyukan Shimbun (e) ¥170-cl
Shinyukan Shimbun
Y. Akiyama (me)
N. Atoba (bm)
59,820
Co., Ltd.
K. Kurihara (cde)
M. Shibayama (ar
3-1, Hamamatsu-cho,
K. Shimada, Pres.;
R. Futomura (cm)
Shiba, Minato-ku,
¥1,00,000
Tokyo
Tel. (43) 0152
Seiji Shimbun (m)
¥100-cl
Seiji Shimbun
K. Takasugi (me)
K. Abe (bm)
11,640
¥120-sp
Co., Ltd.
W. Yoshikawa (c d e)
S. Noguchi (am)
6-7, Nishi-Ginza,
Y. Kanetsuka, Pres.;
K. Abe (gm)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
Tel. (57) 1554
Sun News Photos
Sun News Photos
M. Matsuoka (me)
K. Matsuoka (bm)
11, 1, Yuraku-cho,
Co., Ltd .
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
K. Matsuoka, Pres.;
Tel. (23) 3692.
¥186,000
Tokyo Mimpo (e)
¥150-cl
Tokyo Mimpo
T. Shoobara
M. Nagamine (bm)
65,000
Co., Ltd.
(E. in c)
Y. Tokuma (am)
6-3, Marunouchi,
T. Shoobara, Pres.;
M. Nagashima (me)
Y. Tokuma (cm)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
¥100,000
K. Iwata (cde)
Tel. (23) 0626, 3782
S. Fukita (pee)
T. Shibukawa (ee)
Tokyo Times (m)
¥390-cl
Tokyo Times Co., Ltd.
T. Inoue (E. in e)
T. Takahashi (gm)
185,673
R. Shikiba, Pres.
S. Omura (me)
K. Fukuotomi (bm)
Shiseikaikan-nai
￥1,000,000
S. Takenaka (cde)
K. Fukutomi (am)
No. 2, Hibiya Park,
K. Matsumoto (pee)
M. Kodate (cm)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
Z. Oda (ce)
Tel. (57) 7979
Tokyo Shimbun (e)
¥1100-cl
Tokyo Shimbun
Nobuo Oyama (me)
S. Yamana (bm)
484,317
(Corporate)
Y. Yokota (cde)
Z. Ozaka (am)
10-2, Uchisaiwai-cho,
K. Fukuda, Pres.;
T. Tukamoto (pe)
T. Komatsu (cm)
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo
¥1,700
H. Kobiyama (ce)
Tel. (57) 3101
Yukan Miyako (e)
¥140-cl
Yukan Miyako
H. Tuchiya (me)
K. Murase (arh)
30,000
¥182-sp
Co., Ltd.
I. Hamaguchi (cde)
S. Goto (cm)
1-7 Nishi-Ginza,
T. Akutagawa, Pres.
T. Akutagawa (gm)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
¥195,000
Tel. (57) 7578
Yomiuri Shimbun (m)
¥1,700-cl
Yomiuri Shimbun
S. Yasuda (me)
S. Muto (am)
1,677,775
Co., Ltd.
T. Takagi (cde)
T. Yamaoka (am)
3-1, Nishi-Ginza,
T. Baba, Pres.;
S. Aikawa (pe)
M. Kikuchi (cm)
Chuo-ku, Tokyo
¥8,100,000
H. Tachibana (ee)
F. Kojima (gm)
Tel. (23) 0551
S. Takeuchi (se)
H. Hori (be)
To Hosokawa (fe)

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
12 branch offices;
1 type founding
44-Edit. dept.
UP, Reuters,
1 papier mache
31-Bus. dept.
AFP, RP,
moulders;
18-Gen, Admi.
Kyodo
1 stereo founders
93-Total
S. Matsuzaki (ms)
Kyodo
2 rotary . press
1-Assigned to directly
machines;
to diréctors;
2 type foundings;
33-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
24-Bus. dept.;
moulder;
17-Gen. Admi. dept;
1 stereo founder;
44-Pub. dept.;
1 photo type;
119—Total
1 engraver
Kyodo
1 rotary press
35-Edit. dept.;
machine;
10-Bus. dept.;
1 type founding;
7-Gen. Adni. dept.;
2 stereo founders;
25-Pub. dept.;
1 papier
77—Total
mache moulder
39-Edit. dept.;
28-Bus. dept.;
67—Total
1 branch office;
46-Edit. dept.;
Tele Press,
30-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
76Total
K. Tozuka (mm)
3 branch offices;
Shinnihon Rekishi
1 photo-type;
52-Edit. dept.;
WTS, SNP,
(Revised History
2 rotary press
46-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
of Japan);
machines;
18-Gen. Adm. dept.;
Nippon wa do ugoku
8 type foundings;
117-Mech. dept.;
(What will of Japan);
1 papier moulder;
233—Total
1 stereo-founder;
1 photo-type;
2 engraves
H. Eguchi (ms)
10 branch offices;
5 rotary press
189-Edit. dept.;
AP, AFP, SNP, RP,
machines;
39-Bus. dept.
Kyodo
16 type foundings;
50-Gen. Admi. dept.;
2 papier mache
113-Mech. dept.;
moulders;
20-Assigned to posts
4 stereo-founders;
outside the office
2 photo-type;
411—Total
2 engraves
2 branch offices;
Inflation wa do
25-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
Ugokuka
12--Bus. dept.;
(How is the future of
5-Gen. dept.;
25-Mech. dept.;
inflation);
Nochi Choseiho
6-Assigned to posts
(On Agricultural
outside the office;
Estate Adjustment
73—Total
Law.)
S. Maeda (ms)
31 branch offices &
Yomiuri weekly;
13' rotary press
5-Assigned to directly
Y. Yomota (ps)
AP, REUTERS, INS,
157 stringers;
Yomiuri Seiji-nenkan
(Yomiuri Political
21 type foundings;
machines;
to directors;
615-Edit. dept.;
AFP, SNP, RP,
Year Book);
4 papier mache
245-Gen, dept.;
Kyodo
Gekkan Yomiuri
Yomiuri sports;
6 stereo-founders;
moulders;
74-Pub. dept.;
571-Mech. dept.;
(Monthly Yomiuri);
4 photo-types;
264-Bus. dept.;
Shonen Yomiuri
5 engraves
403-Assigned to posts
(Yomiuri for
13 rotary press
outside the office;
2177—Total
Juveniles)

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
72
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
OSAKA DISTRICT
Population—1,559,310
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation
(me)—Managing Editor
(gm)—General Mana
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Business Mana
Special
(pe)—Political News
(am)-Advertisement
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief,
Asahi Shimbun (m)
¥1,600-cl
Asahi Shimbun Co.,
K. Shinobu (me)
T. Nakamura (bm)
1,461,843
Ltd.
T. Tomioko (cde)
T. Nakamura (am)
3-3, Nakanoshima
(Osaka)
K. Ishiyama (ee)
M. Kori (em)
Kita-ku, Osaka
Y. Komatsu, Pres.;
K. Hara (ce)
Tel. (45) 3501
¥10,000,000
Mainichi Shimbun
¥1,600-cl
Mainichi Shimbun
T. Honda (E. in chief)
S. Imori (am)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
R. Asai (me)
T. Takada (cm)
(Osaka)
T. Honda, Pres.;
G. Urakami (cde)
S. Kato (gm)
1,322,205
Y10,000,000
S. Takahashi (pee)
T. Kamoi (bm)
36-2, Kami, Dojima,
Ed Saito (ce)
Kita-ku, Osaka
Tel. (45) 3131
Osaka Nichinichi
¥320-cl
Osaka Nichinichi
T. Hirai (me)
T. Kikuchi (gm)
Shimbun (e)
Shimbun
S. Kamimura (cde)
115,000
Unlimited
H. Kawazoe (cde)
333, Nakanoshima,
Partnership
Y. Terahata (ce)
Kita-ku, Osaka
T. Ishii, Pres.;
Tel. Fukushima,
¥100,000
Osaka (45) 3501
Osaka Jiji Shimpo
Y350-cl
Osaka Jiji Shimpo
Y. Fukasaka (E. in
T. Azuma (bm)
(m)
I. Matsunami, Pres.;
chief)
K. Kakuda (am)
100,000
Y3,000,000
K. Yamaji
S. Ikeda (cm)
48-4, Sonezaki,
T. Kinoshita (me)
T. Yagi (gm)
Kita-ku, Osaka
S. Nishiyama (pe)
Tel. (45) 0045
T. Kinya (ee)
S. Dobashi (pe)
Osaka Shimbun (e)
¥800-cl
Osaka Shimbun Co.,
T. Nomura (me)
Y. Morinaga (am)
315,600
Ltd.
T. Tanimura (cde)
S. Ikeda (am)
8-4, Sonezaki,
S. Zentoku, Pres.;
S. Nishimura (pe)
R. Nakanishi (em)
Kita-ku, Osaka
¥1,050,000
T. Moriya (ee)
Tel. (Kita) 0095
M. Fuchida (pe)
T. Hagiwara (fe)
Osaka Times (m)
¥150-cl
Osaka Times Co., Ltd.
Y. Kuchigashira (me)
S. Mukai (bm)
30,00
Y. Matsushima, Pres.;
To Rokuma (cde)
S. Gobara (am)
35,000
¥1,000,000
Y. Kuchigashira (gm)
35-5, Koraibashi,
Higashi-ku, Osaka
Tel. (44) 0693-0696

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employ
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial De
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
(Gen. Adm. dept.)
Superintendent
INS—International News
General Admin
(pm)—Publications
Service
Department
Manager
FAP—Agence France de
(Pub. dept.)—
Presse
Publications Departn
ANP—Acme Newspictures
(Print. dept.)—
Inc.
Printary Department
WTS—World Telegram
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
K. Nishimura (ps)
24 branch offices &
Same as
17 rotary press
341Assigned to directly
T. Kimura (ps)
87 stringers;
Tokyo
machines;
to directors;
AP, Reuter, AFP,
18 type foundings;
429-Edit. dept.;
New York Times,
6 papier mache
442-Bus. dept.;
RA, SNP, Kyodo
moulders;
54-Gen. Admi. dept;
4 stereo founders;
77-Publ. dept.;
4 photo-types;
180-Welfare dept.;
4 engravers
657-Print. dept.;
518-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
2,391—Total
M. Abe (ms)
25 branch offices &
Same as
18 rotary press
7-Assigned to directly
S. Nishiyama (ps)
121 stringers;
Tokyo
machines;
to directors;
UP, Reuters, AFP,
19 type foundings;
366-Edit. dept.;
SNP, RP,
3 papier mache
388-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
moulders;
41-Publ. dept.;
3 stereo founders;
529-Mech. dept.;
1 photo-types;
268-Bus. dept.;
3 engravers
412-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
2,011—Total
1 branch office;
69-Edit. dept.;
SNP,
50-Gen. Adm. dept.;
Kyodo
10-Publ. dept.;
7-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
136—Total
13 branch offices &
63-Edit. dept.;
29 stringers;
41-Bus. dept.;
SNP, RP,
38-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
78-Print. dept.;
18-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
238—Total
13 branch offices &
Yomimono to manga
2 rotary press
2-Assigned to directly
29 stringers;
(Reader's and
machines;
to directors;
INS, SNP,
Caricature)
6 type foundings;
131-Edit.' dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
84-Bus. dept.;
moulders;
108-Gen. dept.;
2 stereo founders;
21-Publ. dept.;
1 photo-types;
115-Pritn. dept.;
1 engravers
130-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
591—Total
1 branch office;
Kokka Kominho
26-Edit. dept,
SNP,
shokai
25-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
(Ditailed explanation
12-Gen. dept.;
of state laws)

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Sangyokeizsi Shimbun
¥900-cl
Sangyokeizai Shimbun
S. Kishimoto (me)
T. Nakamura (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Kuroda (cde)
Z. Oda (am)
124,340
Y. Samamura, Pres.;
Y. Nagasu (pee)
·S. Ikeda (em)
48-4, Sonezaki,
¥1,000,000
Kita-ku, Osaka
Tel. Kita (36) 0095
Shin Nihon Shimbun
¥100-cl
Shin Nihon Co., Ltd.
Y. Takahashi (E. in
K. Nakagiri (bm)
(m)
¥120-sp
T. Hirooka Pres.;
chief)
K. 'Nakagiri (am)
100,000
¥2,690,000
Y. Hidijima (me)
T. Nakagiri (cm)
20, Kawasaki,
T. Ota (cde)
M. Ueda (gm)
Oyodo-ku, Osaka
T. Miyano (pee)
Tel. (Toyosaki) 1615
M. Obara (ce)
Shin Osaka Shimbun
¥320-cl
¥320-cl
T. Kurozaki (me)
M. Wakabayashi (bm)
(e)
Shin Osaka Shimbun
E. Yamaguchi (cde)
U. Sano (gm)
115,000
Co., Ltd.
T. Ogawa (em)
5, 1 Awabori-dori,
Y. Seto, Pres.;
Nishi-ku, Osaka
¥195,000
Tel. (53) 1617
KANTO DISTRICT
Saitama—2,100,453; Ibaraki—2,013,735; Chiba—2,112,971;
Kanagawa—2,218,120; Gumma—1,572,787;
Population—11,552,377
Tochigi—1,534,311
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation &
(me)—Managing Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(am)-Advertisement
Special
(pe)—Political News
Manager
Editor
(cm)—Circulation
(ee)—Economic News
Manager
Editor
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Chiba Shimbun (m)
¥120-cl
Chiba Shimbun Co.,
T. Kase (me)
K. Kobayashi (bm)
21,331
Ltd.
K. Tsukamoto
1-1, Nagazu-cho,
K. Kobayashi, Pres.;
K. Toyama (cm)
Chiba-shi, Chiba
Y180,000
Tel. 0240
Ibaragi Shimbun (m)
Y130-cl
Ibaragi Shimbun Co.,
K. Taguchi (me)
K. Mizutani (bm)
31,682
Ltd.
Y. Shimada (cde)
K. Watahiki (am)
16, Minamicho,
T. Goto, Pres.;
Mito-shi, Ibaragi
¥500,000
Tel. 0050, 0304, 0332
Kanagawa Shimbun
Y160-cl
Kanagawa Shimbun
M. Kawasaki (me)
I. Tanaka (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
S. Shimizu (cde)
K. Dobashi (em)
60,000
H. Sasaki, Pres.;
K. Yoshida.(pee)
K. Namikata (gm)
81-6, Ogami-cho,
Y300,000
Naka-ku, Yokohama,
Kanagawa
Tel. 1100
Jomo Shimbun (m)
Y170-cl
Jomo Shimbun Co.,
S. Higuchi (me)
M. Hashimoto (bm)
51,220
Ltd.
G. Asami (cde)
K. Aoki (am)
105, Kurdwa-cho,
H. Shinohara, Pres.;
Y. Oshima (pee)
H. Kakehashi (cm)
Maebashi, Gunma
Y195,000
K. Kishi (ee)
Tel. 3141

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
NI VSPAPER ECTORY
22 branch offices &
1 rotary press
-9-Assigned to d
32 stringers,
machine;
to directors;
RP,
2 type foundings;
113-Edit, dept
Kyodo
1 papier mache
56-Bus. dept;
moulder;
85-Gen. dept;
1 stereo founder;
119-Print. dept.
1 engraver
255-Assigned to
outside the office;
637—Total
9 branch offices,
4-Assigned to din
Kyodo
to directors;
55-Edit. dept.;
79-Bus. dept.;
12-Gen. dept.;
90-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
240—Total
1 branch office;
4-Assigned to directly
SNP,
to directors;
Kyodo
83-Edit. dept.;
,69-Bus. dept.;
13-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
169—Total
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees:
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Department
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
(ps)-Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS—International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administration
Manager
AFP-Agence France de
Department
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP-Sun News Photo
Service
N. Ishii (ms)
15 branch offices &
1 rotary press
40-Edit. dept.;
3 stringers,
machine,
34-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
31-Prit. dept.;
moulder,
18-Assigned to posts
1 stereo founder,
outside the office;
1 photo type
123—Total
T. Matsuoka (ms)
22 branch offices;
28-Edit. dept.;
3
S. Ouchi (pm)
Kyodo
25-Bus. dept.;
K. Morita (Prin. s)
40-Mech. dept.;
24-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
117—Total
K. Yanagihara (ms)
10 branch offices &
34-Edit. dept.;
T. Minono (ps)
2 stringers;
26-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
38-Gen. dept.;
17-Print. dept.;
66-Mech. dept.;
14-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
195—Total
13 branch offices & 1
1 rotary press
15-Assigned to directly
stringer;
machine,
to directors:
Kyodo
5 type foundings,
29-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
40-Bus. dept.;
moulder,
81-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo founder,
26-Assigned to posts
2 photo types,
outside the office;
1'engraver
191—Total

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
76
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
·Saitama Shimbun (m)
¥160-cl
Saitama Shimbun
K. Ishiguro (E. in
Y. Watanabe (am)
44,486
Co., Corp.
chief)
K. Itaya (gm)
113-6, Kishicho
K. Itaya, Pres.
S. Iniwa (cde)
Urawa, Saitama
¥308,000
Tel. (Urawa) 3107
8
Shimotsuke Shimbun
¥130-cl
Shimotsuke Shimbun
T. Fukushima (me)
T. Fukushima (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
Y. Sato (cde)
33,130
T. Fukushima, Pres.;
51, Ikegami-cho,
¥180,000
Utsunomiya, Tochigi
Tel. 2007, 2240
TOHOKU DISTRICT
Aomori—1,180,245; Akita—1,257,398; Iwate—1,262,743
Yamagata—1,335,653; Miyaki—1,566,831; Fukushima—
Population—8,595,330
1,992,460
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation &
(me)—Managing Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)-Copy-desk Editor
(am)—Advertisement
Special
(pe)—Political News
Manager
Editor
(cm)—Circulation
(ee)—Economic News
Manager
Editor
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Akita Sakigake
￥20-cl
Akita Sakigake
Asomura
K. Yamada (bm)
Shimbun m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
T. Fujiwara (am)
60,300
S. Hitomi, Pres.;
Y. Saito (me)
T. Kumagaya (cm)
Oomachi, Akita-shi,
¥700,000
G. Kurata (pe)
Akita
G. Kurata (cde)
Tel. (Akita) 3861
S. Ito (ee)
Daily Tohoku (m)
¥85-cl
Daily Tohoku Co., Ltd.
R. Yoshida (me)
M. Kondo (am)
21,330
M. Ishibashi, Pres.;
K. Sasamoto (hm)
3, Ban-cho,
¥200,000
Hachinoe-shi, Aomori
Tel. (Hachinohe) 0862
Fukushima Mimpo
Y170-cl
Fukushima Mimpo
S. Nagasawa (me)
Y. Haniyu (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
G. Ishii (am)
46,142
T. Tobishima, Pres.;
S. Itabari (cm)
21, Sakae-cho,
Fukushima-shi,
Fukushima
Tel. 1281
Fukushima Minyu
¥80-cl
Fukushima Minyu
G. Ogoshi (E. in chief)
A. Yoshikawa (am)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Yoshida
T. Morohara (cm)
30,000
K. Tako, Pres.;
R. Sakamoto (pee)
T. Yoshiuari (gm)
60, Nakamachi
M. Sato (ce)
Fukushima-shi,
Fukushima
Tel. 0527
Iwate Shimpo (m)
Y130-cl
Iwate Shimpo
Y. Horikawa (me)
S. Watanabe (bm)
35,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Nakajima (am)
23, Naen,
To Otiai, Pres.;
K. Kumagaya (cm)
Morioka-shi, Iwate
¥500,000
Y. Tohata (gm)
Tel. 1707

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
J. Kobayashi (ps)
8 branch offices;
1 rotary press
39-Edit. dept;
13 stringers;
machine,
18-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
3 type foundings,
40-Mech. dept;
1 papier mache
38-Assigned to p
moulders,
outside the office
1 stereo founder,
147—Total
1 photo type,
1 engraver
S. Furukawa (ms)
5 branch offices & 10
2 rotary press
5-Assigned to directly
stringers;
machines,
to directors;
SNP,
1 type founding,
44-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
41-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
24-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo founder,
21-Assigned to posts
1 photo type,
outside the office;
1 engraver
135—Total
(ms)—Mechanical
(pm)—Publications
Superintendent
Number of branch offices
News Agencies
& stringers Affiliated
Supplementary
Publications
Mechanical Departments
Equipments
No. of Employees:
(Edit. dept.)—
Editorial Department
(ps)—Printery
Manager
UP—United Press
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
Business Department
(pm)—Publications
Superintendent
Manager
FAP—Agence France de
INS—International News
Service
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
General Administration
Department
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo·News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
Y. Kojima (ps)
4 branch offices &
Sakigake Magazine
62-Edit. dept.;
8 stringers;
48-Gen. dept.;
WTS, SNP,
49-Prin. dept.;
Kyodo
175—Total
T. Kawara (ms)
7 branch offices &
8-Assigned to directly
5 stringers;
to directors;
Kyodo
32-Edit. dept.;
17-Bus. dept.;
26-Print. dept.
95—Total
S. Suzuki (ms)
8 branch offices &
33-Edit. dept.;
S. Kanbe (ps)
2 stringers;
54-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
1-Publ. dept.;
62-Mech. dept.;
25-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
175—Total
15 branch offices &
Fukushima Nenkan
10-Assigned to directly
5 stringers;
(Fukushima Year
to director;
Kyodo
Book);
23-Edit. dept.;
Fukushima-ken
9-Bus. dept.;
Shokuin Roku
28-Assigned to posts
(Fukushima prefec-
outside the office;
ture of personal List)
70—Total
3 branch offices &
31-Edit. dept.;
6 stringers;
22-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
22-Assigned to posts
Kyodo
outside the office;
75—Total

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
78
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Kahoku Shimpo (m)
¥420-cl
Kahoku Shimpo
N. Takahata (me)
S. Makino (bm)
132,128
Co., Ltd.
M. Kusaka (pee)
R. Endo (am)
170, 3 ban-cho,
C. Sugano, Pres.;
T. Shirasaki (ee)
T. Watanabe (cm)
Sendai-shi, Miyagi
¥5,000,000
Tel. 4100
C
Shin Iwate Nippo
Y220-cl
Shin Iwate Nippo
S. Ono (me)
F. Miyafuku (ms)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
S. Kudo (cde)
H. Matsuoka (ps)
55,738
S. Iwaki, Pres.;
S. Sato (bm)
61, Marunouchi
¥60,000
F. Kido (am)
Morioka-shi, Iwate
T. Nakata (cm)
Tel. 1615
S. Iwakame (gm)
Toonippo (m)
Y240-cl
Too Nippo Co., Ltd.
R. Kusumi (me)
K. Takasaka (am)
75,420
T. Kudo, Pres.;
M. Narumi (cde)
M. Numata (em)
2-3, Aza Nagashima
Oaza, Oono,
Aomori,
Tel. 2010
Yamagata Shimbun
Y200-cl
Yamagata Shimbun
T. Takahira (me)
G. Igarashi (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Saito (cde)
S. Suzuki (am)
65,544
T. Hattori, Pres.;
K. Ogawa (cm)
471, Nanoka-machi,
¥195,000
Yamagata
Tel. 1580
Yukan Tohoku (e)
Y130-cl
Yukan Tohoku
Ri Mihara (E. in
M. Kadoma (bm)
30,000
Co., Ltd.
chief)
T. Kirihara (am)
170, 3 bancho,
M. Kadoma, Pres.;
T. Muto (me)
K. Ito (cm)
Sendai-shi, Miyagi
¥150,000
N. Yamaie (cđe)
Tel. 1629
CHUBU DISTRICT
Yamanashi—807,251; Shizuoka—2,353,005; Aichi—3,122,-
902; Gifu—1,993,644; Nagano—2,060,010
Population—10,336,813
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation &
(me)—Managing Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Circulation, Address
Special
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(pe)—Political News
(am)—Advertisement
(am)-Advertisement.
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Chubu Nihon
¥1100-cl
Chubu Nihon
T. Nozaki (me)
K. Nakamura (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Ono (cde)
F. Matsubara (gm)
766,132
T. Sugiyama, Pres.;
E. Sugiura (cde)
24-2, Honcho-dori,
¥5,000,000
S. Kanamori (pee)
Miyuki, Naka-ku,
T. Ishii (ce)
Nagoya-shi, Aiti
Tel. Chu (3) 2151
Chukyo Shimbun (m)
¥200-cl
Chukyo Shimbun
S. Ninobe (me)
B. Tsutsumi (am)
80,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Miyamoto (cde)
R. Kawara (cm)
11-2, Hirokoji
C. Yujiro, Pres.;
R. Noma (bm)
dori, Naka-ku,
¥500,000
Nagoya-shi, Aiti
Tel. 0081

=== Page 160 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Z. Ono (ms)
7 branch offices &
Tohoku Bunka
3 rotary press
8-Assigned.to dir
T. Miyazaki (ps)
16 stringers;
(Tohoku Culture);
machines;
to directors;
New York 8imes,
Tohoku Shokokumin
16 type foundings;
90-Edit. dept.;
SNP, Kyodo
(Tohoku Children)
3 papier mache
138-Bus. dept.;
moulders;
138-Mech. dept.;
4 stereo founders;
20-Cult. dept.;
3 photo types;
28-Assigned to posts
2 engravers
outside the office;
422—Total
16 branch offices &
2 rotary press
34-Edit. dept.;
5 stringers;
machines;
29-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
5 type foundings;
25-Gen. dept.;
2 papier mache
61-Mech. dept.;
moulders;
8-Publ. dept.;
2 stereo founders;
19-Assigned to posts
2 photo types,
outside the office;
1 engraver
179—Total
S. Kawata (ms)
9 branch offices &
2 rotary press
1-Assigned directly to
2 stringers,
machines;
director;
WTS, SNP,
6 type foundings;
51-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
2 papier mache
51-Bus. dept
moulders;
62-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo founders;
45-Assigned to posts
2 photo types,
outside the office;
1 engraver
210—Total
. Kudo (ms)
14 branch offices &
1 rotary press
41-Edit. dept.;
2 stringers;
machine,
33-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
3 type foundings,
54-Gen. dept.;
1 papier mache
36-Assigned to posts
moulder
outside the office;
165—Total
2 branch offices. &
2-Assigned to directly
5 stringers;
to directors;
SNP,
18-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
12-Bus. dept.;
7-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
29—Total
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees:
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Department
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS—International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administration
Manager
FAP—Agence France de
Department
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
T. Tonta (ms)
28 branch office &
Fujin to Kodomo
6 rotary press
10-Assigned to
Y. Koide (ps)
57 stringers;
(Ladies and children)
machines;
directly to
SNP, RP,
Nogyo Nihon
20 type foundings;
directors;
New York Times,
(Agricultural Japan)
4 papier mache
226-Edit. dept.;
UP,
moulders;
87-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
3 stereo type
founders;
2 photo types;
2 engravers
1 branch office
1 rotary press
3-Assigned to
7 stringers;
machine;
directly to
SNP,
5 type foundings;
directors;
Kyodo
2 papier mache
36-Edit. dept.;
moulders;
38-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo type
9-Assigned to
founder;
posts outside
2 photo types;
the office;
2 engravers
85—Total

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
80
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Chubu Keizai
¥200-cl
Chubu Keizai
S. Takashima
K. Miyake (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
H. Kuwajima (am)
30,000
I. Jutaro, Pres.;
J. Ichi (me)
K. Nakano (gm)
24-2, Miyuki
¥195,000
H. Iwata (cde)
Honchodori,
K. Kimura (ee)
Naka-ku,
Nagoya-shi, Aiti
Tel. (2) 0063
Gifu Times (m)
¥200-cl
Gifu Times Co., Ltd.
T. Kato (me)
H. Isoda (am)
64,656
S. Ohashi, Pres.;
S. Oki (cde)
K. Hayashi (cm)
22, Imakomachi,
¥1,500,000
C. Hasegawa (ee)
H. Isoda (bm)
Gifu-shi, Gifu
Tel. 0028
Nagoya Times (m)
¥200-cl
Nagoya Times
Y. Kato
K. Nakane (bm)
70,000
Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
K. Iguchi (am)
5-1, Kawabata
K. Jutaro, Pres.;
H. Ito (me)
T. Kawase (gm)
machi, Nishi,
¥18,500
N. Kato (cde)
Naka-ku,
U. Kamiya (ce)
Nagoya-shi, Aiti
Tel. (Azuma) 1015
Nanshin Nichinichi
¥100-cl
Nanshin nichinichi
T. Mikoshiba
T. Kurokaochi (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
K. Tsuchiya (am)
20,000
T. Misawa, Pres.;
T. Kondo (me)
I. Kusano
75-3, Kamisuwa-
¥198,000
H. Iizawa (cde)
Aza Suwa-shi,
Nagano
Tel. (Suwa) 0864
Nobi Shimbun (m)
¥130-cl
Nobi Shimbun
T. Ichinose (me)
R. Araki (bm)
20,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Kojima (cde)
42, Aoki-cho,
S. Aoki, Pres.;
Tajima-shi, Gifu
¥100,000
Tel. (Tajima) 0006
Shinyo Shimbun (m)
Y60-cl
Shinyo Shimbun
K. Koguchi (me)
Y. Miyasaka (bm)
10,000
Co., Ltd.
E. Uehara (cde)
T. Uchida (cm)
314, Nishihori-cho,
T. Miyasaka, Pres.;
N. Kimura (am)
Matsumoto-shi,
¥2,500,000
Nagano
Tel. (Matsumoto)
0898, 1131, 2364
Shizuoka Shimbun
¥180-cl
Shizuoka Shimbun
M. Shigeta (me)
K. Oda (am)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
M. Suzuki (em)
62,895
M. Inamiya, Pres.;
T. Komatsuzaki (gm)
46, Konya-cho,
¥100,000
T. Ezaki (bm)
Shizuoka-shi,
Shizuoka
Tel. (Shizuoka)
0025,0355
Shintokai Shimbun
¥200-cl
Shintokai Shimbun
K. Ogura (me)
S. Miyata (bm)
(e)
Co., Ltd.
T. Ota (am)
70,000
S. Ikai, Pres.;
G. Hasegawa (cm)
11-2, Hirokoji,
￥200,000
S. Okimasu (gm)
Naka-ku, Nagoya-shi,
Aiti
Tel. (2) 5210

=== Page 162 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
2 branch offices
4-Assigned to
& 23 stringers;
directly to
Kyodo
directors;
40-Edit. dept.:
32-Bus. dept.;
32-Assigned to
posts outside
the office;
108—Hotal
7 branch offices &
3 rotary press
14-Assigned to
7 stringers;
machines;
directly to
SNP,
7 type foundings;
directors;
Kyodo
2 papier mache
60-Edit. dept.;
moulders;
46-Bus. dept.;
2 stereo type
68-Mech. dept.;
founders;
22-Assigned to
1 photo type;
posts outside
1 engraver
the office;
210—Total
2 branch offices
2 rotary press
39-Edit. dept.;
machines;
38-Bus. dept.;
6 type foundings;
53-Mech. dept.;
2 papier mache
11-Assigned to
moulders;
posts outsidé
1 stereo type
the office;
founder;
141—Total
2 photo types;
2 engravers
T. Kurookochi
10 branch offices &
Shukan Shinano
1 rotary press
22-Edit. dept.;
(ms)
7 stringers;
Kodomo Shimbun
machine;
22-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
(Shinano Children's
1 type founding;
36-Print. dept.;
Kyodo
Weekly)
1 papier mache
27-Assigned to
moulder;
posts outside
1 stereo type
the office
founder
107—Total
7 branch
offices &
22-Edit. dept.;
5 stringers;
20-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
30-Assigned to
posts outside
the office;
72—-Total
Y. Miyasaka (ms)
9 branch
1 rotary press
14-Edit. dept.;
S. Shirai (ps)
offices &
machines;
18-Bus. dept.;
3 stringers;
1 type founding;
23-Mech. dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
16-Assigned to
moulder;
posts outside
1 stereo type
the office;
founder;
71—Total
1 photo type
T. Suzuki (ms)
2 branch offices &
3 rotary press
47-Edit. dept.;
19 stringers;
machines,
21-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
3 type foundings,
21-Gen. dept.;
3 papier mache
62-Print. dept.;
moulders,
31-Assigned to posts
1 stereo type founder,
outside the office;
1 photo type,
182—Total
1 engraver
1 branch office;
1 rotary press
38-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
machine,
20-Bus. dept.;
5 type foundings,
18-Gen. dept.;
2 papier mache
4-Assigned to posts
moulders,
outside the office;
1 stereo type founder,
80—Total
2 photo types,
2 engravers

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
82
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Shinano Mainichi
¥400-cl
ShinanoMainichi
R. Sakamoto (me)
S. Kobayashi (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
S. Sato (cde)
K. Komatsu (am)
103,900
S. Ito, Pres.;
T. Suzuki (cm)
657, Nanken-cho,
¥3,000,000
Nagano-shi, Nagano
Tel. 4361
Tokai Mainichi
¥200-cl
Tokai Mainichi
K. Ito (me)
T. Niita (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
K. Sakurai (cde)
M. Ishida (cm)
50,000
N. Yamazaki, Pres.;
K. Mizutani (pee)
3-1, Horinouchi-
¥195,000
machi, Nakamura-ku,
Nagoya-shi, Nagoya
Tel. 1381
Tokai Yukan
¥120-cl
Tokai Yukan
K. Takikawa (me)
S. Yameyama (bm)
Shimbun (e)
Co., Ltd.
N. Isema (cde)
T. Yamamoto (gm)
30,000
T. Yamada, Pres.;
I. Hayashi (ee)
6-2, Kandacho,
¥180,000
Gifu-shi, Gifu
Tel. 1459
Yukan Shinshu (e)
¥100-cl
Yukan Shinshu
T. Tanaka (me)
K. Yamada (bm)
33,000
Co., Ltd.
657, Nanken-cho,
K. Yamada, Pres.;
Nagano-shi, Nagano
Y195,000
Tel. 1681, 1689
Yamanashi Jiji
¥130-cl
Yamanashi Jiji
T. Muramatsu (me)
K. Yamagata (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Bichu (cde)
A. Furuya (am)
30,000
H. Shimizu, Pres.;
H. Ito (pee)
F. Nakagomi (em)
32, Yamada-cho,
Y500,000
M. Akiyama (ce)
K. Yamagata (gm)
Kofu-shi, Yamanashi
Tel. (Kofu) 2916
Yamanashi Nichinichi
¥130-cl
Yamanashi Nichi nichi
T. Aoki (me)
T. Fukazawa (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
Y. Yokota (cde)
Y. Yoishi (am)
35,200
Yoshiya
M. Hoshino (cm)
288, Heyakoku,
Y. Wada, Pres.;
Y. Wada (gm)
Kofu-shi, Yamanashi
¥180,000
Tel. 2233
HOKURIKU District
Niigata—2,418,271; Toyama—979,229;
Ishikawa—827,743; Fukui—726,264
Population—5,351,507
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation
(me)—Managing Editor
(bm)—Business Manage
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)-Copy-desk Editor
(am)—Advertisement
Special
(pe)—Political News
Manager
Editor
(cm)—Circulation
(ee)—Economic News
Manager
Editor
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Fukui Shimbun (m)
¥200-cl
Fukui Shimbun
Y. Midokochi (ms)
I. Saikawa (gm)
49,204
Co., Ltd.
S. Matsumura (ce)
88-Ippongi-cho,
M. Kuroda, Pres.;
N. Iyo (cde)
Fukui-shi, Fukui
Y199,900
M. Arita (pee)
Tel. (Fukui) 088

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Y. Sugiura (ms)
3 branch offices &
Shinmai Joho
6-Assigned to
15 stringers;
(Shinmai news);
to directors;
Sangyo Joho
62-Edit. dept.;
(Industrial news);
23-Bus. dept.;
Shinmai Nenkan
51-Gen. dept;
(Shinmai Year
2-Prin. dept.;
Book);
115-Mech. dept.;
Culture magazine;
44-Assigned to posts
outside the office
303—Total
Y. Mori (ms)
1 branch office &
Amusement news;
2 rotary press
42-Edit. dept.;
I. Sugii (ps)
1 stringer;
Nogyo, Kyoho
machines,
50-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
(Agriculture
3 type foundings,
77-Mech. dept.;
Kyodo
Magazine);
2 papier mache
169—Total
Chie no Hikari
moulders,
(Use of intelligence)
1 stereo type founder,
1 photo type,
2 engravers
2 branch offices;
31-Edit. dept.;
8-Bus. dept.;
5-Gen. dept.;
5-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
49—Total
5 branch offices &
34-Edit. dept.;
12 stringers;
8-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
21-Assigned to posts
Kyodo
outside the office;
63—Total
K. Yamagata (sm)
3 branch offices &
3 rotary press
30-Edit. dept.;
11 stringers;
machines,
15-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
2 type foundings,
10-Gen. dept.;
1 papier mache
35-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
14-Assigned to posts
1 stereo type founder,
outside the office:
1 photo type,
104—Total
1 engraver
Y. Wada (gm)
4 branch offices;
1 rotary press
28-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
machine,
16-Bus. dept.;
2 type foundings,
12-Gen. dept.;
2 papier mache
34-Mech. dept.;
moulders,
6-Assigned to posts
1 stereo type founder,
outside the office;
1 photo type,
96—Total
2 engravers
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees:
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Department
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS—International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administratios
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
Department
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun
News Photo
Service
K. Maekawa (ms)
8 branch offices &
2 rotary press
40-Edit. dept.;
E. Iwai (ps)
8 stringers;
machines;
38-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
4 type foundings;
64-Mech. dept.;
2 papier mache
4-Pub. dept.;
moulders;
28-Assigned to posts
2 stereo founders;
outside the offices;
2 photo types;
174—Total
6 engravers

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
84
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Hokuriku Yukan (e)
¥100-cl
Hokuriku Yukan
S. Tanaka (me)
K. Mori (bm)
33,000
Co., Ltd.
M. Tateishi (cde)
T. Shimizu (gm)
60-Yasuzumi-cho,
C. Kitakawa, Pres.;
N. Matsumoto (pee)
Toyama-shi, Toyama
¥125,000
Y. Kuramori (ee)
Tel. (Toyama) 4009
Hokkoku Mainichi
¥400-cl
Hokkoku Shimbun
Y. Kamoi (E. in chief)
N. Aisaka (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
Y. Miyashita (em)
T. Koshino (em)
126,820
Y. Saga, Pres.;
I. Fujino (cde)
93, Minami-cho,
¥2,000,000
H. Jojima (pee)
Kanazawa-shi,
Ishikawa
Tel. (Kanazawa)
5400
Ishikawa Shimbun
¥150-cl
Ishikawa Shimbun
S. Takeshita
M. Nakanishi (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
S. Yabuuchi (am)
39,880
S. Takayama, Pres.;
T. Wakiuchi (me)
T. Takeyama (cm)
101, Morishita-cho,
¥1,500,000
S. Narimaru (cde)
Kanazawa-shi,
H. Maki (pee)
Ishikawa
K. Tomizu (ee)
Tel. (Kanazawa) 5250
Kitanihon Shimbun
¥80-cl
Kitanihon Shimbun
T. Nakayama (me)
M. Takada (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Ooyama (cde)
S. Sato (am)
81,365
Y. Takatori, Pres.;
T. Wakabayashi (pee)
T. Tanaka (cm)
31 Yasuzumi-cho,
¥199,950
Y. Fujii (ce)
T. Arikawa (gm)
Toyama-shi, Toyama
Tel. (Toyama)
2550
Niigata Nippo (m)
¥400-cl
Niigata Nippo
K. Honma (me)
M. Tanaka (bm)
120,109
Co., Ltd.
S. Kishida (cde)
K. Ookubo (am)
227, 1 Higashi
J. Nishimura, Pres.
T. Ito (gm)
Nakadori, Niigata
¥500,000
Tel. (Niigata)
3770
Toyama Shimbun (m)
¥150-cl
Toyama Shimbun
S. Murai (me)
G. Nishio (bm)
52,500
Co., Ltd.
T. Kitada (cde)
K. Ichizima (am)
89, Mihataya-machi,
K. Kedo, Pres.;
T. Eda (pee)
T. Sonobe (cm)
Takaoka-shi, Toyama
¥180,000
K. Takenaka (ce)
K. Kefuji (gm)
Tel. (Takaoka) 1526
Yukan Niigata (e)
¥130-cl
Yukan Niigata
M. Kosugi (me)
T. Nagata (am)
33,000
Co., Ltd.
T. Takasawa (cde)
S. Shimizu (cm)
6 Ban-cho,
Y. Aizu, Pres.;
R. Hara (cde)
T. Suzuki (gm)
Furumachi-dori,
¥100,000
Niigata
Tel. (Niigata) 3780

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
3 branch offices &
38-Edit. deut;
8 stringers,
31-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
13-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
20-Assigned to posts
outside the office
102—Total
4 branch offices &
Tokkoku Nenkan
4 rotary press
38-Edit. dept.;
14 stringers;
(Hokkoku Year
machines,
57-Bus. dept.;
WTS, UP,
Book);
11 type foundings,
48-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
Bunka;
4 papier mache
89-Pub. dept.;
Hokkoku
moulders,
45-Assigned to posts
Pamphlet
4 stereo founders,
outside the office
2 photo types,
277—Total
1 engraver
1. Yamagishi (ms)
16 branch offices &
Kodemo Ishikawa
1 rotary press
2-Assigned to directly
K. Aoyagi (ps)
12 stringers;
(Ishikawa Children's
machine,
to directors;
Kyodo
newspaper)
2 type foundings,
42-Edit. dept.;
2 papier mache
34-Bus. dept.;
moulders,
34-Print. dept.;
2 stereo founders,
76-Assigned to posts
1 photo type,
outside the office;
1 engraver
183—Total
S. Hayashi (ms)
10 branch offices &
48-Edit. dept.;
3 stringers;
36-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
33-Gen. dept;
95-Mech. dept.;
47-Assigned to
posts outside
the office;
259—Total
K. Nakano (ms)
23 offices &
Niigata Kodomo
9 rotary press
66-Edit. dept.;
T. Odajima (ps)
9 stringers;
Shimbun
machines;
29-Bus. dept.;
UP, New York Times,
(Niigata Children
6 type foundings;
28-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
Newspaper)
1 papier mache
120-Print. dept.;
Niigata Nenkan
moulder,
89-Assigned to
(Niigata Year Book)
,3 stereo founders;
posts outside
2 photo types;
the office;
1 engraver
332—Total
13 branch offices &
1 rotary press
40-Edit. dept.;
5 stringers;
machine;
26-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
4 type foundings;
2-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
43-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
25-Assigned to
1 stereo founder;
posts outside
1 photo type;
the office;
1 engraver
136—Total
1 branch office &
25-Edit. dept.;
6 stringers;
13-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
6-Assigned to
posts outside
the office;
44—Total

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
KINKI DISTRICT
Mie—1,416,494; Shiga—858,367; Kyoto—1,739,084; Nara—
779,935; Wakayama—959,999; Hyogo—3,057,444
Population—8,811,323
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation &
(me)—Managing Editor
(gm)—General Manager
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Special
(pe)—Political News
(am)-Advertisement
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Ise Shimbun (m)
¥160-cl
Ise Shimbun Co., Ltd.
M. Ito (me)
T. Fujiyama (cm)
53,092
S. Matsuzaki, Pres.;
K. Momo (cde)
E. Nakabayashi (gm)
1-1,045, Tsu
¥300,000
T. Fujino (bm)
Okado-cho,
Tsu-shi, Miye
Tel. (Tse) 0011, 0125
Kyoto Nichi-nichi
￥270-cl
Kyoto Nichi-nichi
K. Miura (me)
T. Tsuda (bm)
Shimbun (e)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Ito (cde)
T. Nishimura (am)
75,000
H. Akehi, Pres.;
S. Komachi (pee)
T. Satouchi (cm)
24, Naniwa-cho,
¥1,000,000.
T. Ishida (ce)
B. Fujii (m)
Kita-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto
Tel. (Honkyoku) 5583
Kyoto Shimbun (m)
Y406-cl
Kyoto Shimbun
K. Shiraishi (me)
M. Ogawa (am)
138,311
Co., Ltd.
S. Kato (cde)
T. Taki (cm)
239, Shoshoi-machi,
K. Shiraishi, Pres.;
K. Nakae (pe)
T. Inoue (gm)
Kitairu, Ebisu-kawa,
¥5,000,000
M. Usui (ee)
Karasumaru·dori,
S. Kizaki (ce)
Naka Kyo-ku, Kyoto
Tel. (Kami-kyoku)
0025
Kobe Shimbun (m)
Y420-cl
Kobe Shimbun
S. Yoriyasu (me)
Y. Hoshimoto (bm)
147,332
Co., Ltd.
T. Nagai (cde)
M. Tanaka (am)
8, 2941, Minato-machi,
K. Tanaka, Pres.;
. Hojo (pee)
K. Doi (cm)
Kobe-shi, Hyogo
¥2,500,000
K. Shinohara (gm)
Hyogo-ken
Tel. (Minatogawa)
0050-0057
Miyako Shimbun (e)
¥270-cl
Miyako Shimbun
F. Morikawa (me)
R. Kibara (bm)
77,000
Partnership
S. Kato (cde)
M. Watanabe (am)
Noboru, Sanjo,
J. Shiogai, Pres.;
T. Sekihara (pee)
M. Hirono (cm)
Kawara-dori,
¥600,000
I. Kawata (ce)
Chikyo-ku, Kyoto-shi,
Kyoto
Tel. (Kami) 8003
Nara Nichinichi
Y100-cl
Nara Nichinichi
K. Uejima (me)
M. Yabuuchi (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
Z. Suzuki (am)
20,000
K. Kitaura, Pres.;
M. Tsuji (gm)
1, Aburasak-machi,
¥1,500,000
Nara-shi, Nara
Tel.· (Nara)
2494,3297

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees
Superintendent
& stringers Affliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Depart
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)-
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS-International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administration
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
Department
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Departmen
WTS—World Telegram
Service
Inc.
(Print. dept.)-
Printary Department
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
14 branch offices &
Kinki Shunju
2 rotary press
45-Edit. dept.;
2 stringers,
(Kinki Literary);
machines;
29-Bus. dept.;
WTS,
Mie Shonen Shimbun
5 type foundings;
28-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
(Mie children's news-
2 papier mache
72-Print. dept.;
paper);
moulders;
39-Assigned to posts
Miye Keizai Tokushin
1 stereo type founders;
outside the office;
(Mie Economic
1 photo type;
213—Total
News);
1 engraver
Ise nenkan
(Ise year book).
N: Nagagawa (as)
3 branch offices,
Gion-cho
3 rotary press
57-Edit. dept.;
U. Akigetsu (ms)
SNP,
(Note-book of Gion)
machines;
42-Bus. dept.;
T. Hori (ps)
Kyodo
type foundings;
44-Gen. dept.;
2 papier mache
43-Mech. dept.;
coulders;
18-Assigned to posts
2 stereo type founders;
outside the office;
1 photo type;
204—Total
1 engraver
T. Murakami (ms)
6 branch offices &
Shin Kempo Kaisetsu
2 rotary press
2-Assigned to directly
S. Isoya (ps)
34 stringers;
(Commentary of the
machines;
to directors;
H. Aojima (am)
WTS,
New Constitution);
10 type foundings;
109-Edit. dept.;
UP,
Kenppo Tokuhon
2 papier nache
67-Bus. dept.;
Kyoto
(Contitution Text
moulders;
87-Gen. dept.;
Book)
2 stereo type founders
147-Mech. dept.;
81-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
493—Total
N. Isomura (ms)
17 branch offices &
3 rotary press
96-Edit. dept.;
20 stringers;
machines;
42-Bus. dept.;
New York Times,
7 type foundings;
74-Gen. dept.;
UP,
2 papier mache
112-Mech. dept.;
SNP,
moulders;
93-Assigned to posts
Kyodo
2 stereo type
outside the office;
founders;
417—Total
1 photo type;
1 engraver
2 branch offices;
Romaji Kyositsu
48-Edit. dept.;
WTS,
(Romaji Class
40-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
Room);
25-Gen. dept.;
Konoko, Konohaha
8-Assigned to posts
(This child, and this
outside the office;
mother)
121—Total
M. Yoshida (ps)
8 branch offices &
1 rotary press
26-Edit. dept.;
F. Imaizumi (pu. s)
5 stringers,
machine;
7-bus. dept.;
Kyodo
1 type founding
11-Gen. dept.;
19-Mech. dept.;
63—Total

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Shoga Shimbun (m)
¥110-cl
30,118
Shiga Shimbun
O. Kimura (me)
S. Hashimoto (bm)
1, Higashiura,
Co., Ltd.
O. Kimura (cde)
Oura-shi, Shiga
H. Matsui, Pres.;
Tel. (Shiga) 0019, 0784
¥195,000
Shinko Yukan (e)
¥350-cl
77,000
Shinko Yukan
S. Fei (me)
S. Tateishi (am)
33-3, Minato-machi,
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Kotani (cde)
P. Torii (cm)
Hyogo-ku, Kobe-shi,
J. Takeuchi, Pres.;
Hyogo
¥1,000,000
Tel. (Minatogawa)
0488
Wakayama Shimbun
¥180-cl
(m) 38,445
Wakayama Shimbun
S. Matsumoto (me)
K. Saeki (am)
5-4, Matsubara-dori,
Co., Ltd.
T. Okamoto (cde)
H. Nakamura (cm)
Wakayama-shi,
A. Yura, Pres.;
I. Ogawa (pee)
M. Kobata (gm)
Wakayama
¥190,000
R. Hakemura (ce)
Tel. (Wakayama)
0307, 0308
Yukan Mie (e)
¥120-cl
30,000
Yukan Mie
N. Takeuchi (me)
K. Kotsu (am)
Yokkaichi-shi, Mie
8, Senman-cho,
I. Kashima, Pres.;
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Ueno (cde)
K. Murayama (gm)
M. Kano (cm)
Tel. (Yokkaichi)
¥100,000
0084
Yukan Kyoto
¥270-cl
Shimbun (e)
Yukan Kyoto
T. Yasuoka (me)
K. Yamaguchi (bm)
10,000
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
H. Koedo (am)
43-Kagamiya-cho,
K. Yamaguchi, Pres.;
C. Uno (cm)
Ebisukawa,
¥180,000
K. Yamaguchi (gm)
Noboru, Muromachi,
Chukyo-ku, Kyoto
Tel. (Kami) 0025
Yamato Times (e)
20,000
¥100-cl
Yamato Times
T. Tanaka (me)
T. Imanishi (bm)
24-Nakasuji-cho,
Co., Ltd.
Nara-shi, Nara
T. Imanishi, Pres.;
Tel. (Nara) 4357
¥300,000

=== Page 170 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
S. Fukino (ms)
11 branch offices &
2 rotary press
1-Assigned to dire
3 stringers;
machines;
to directors;
Kyodo
1 type founding;
11-Edit. dept.;
2 papier mache
20-Bus. dept.;
moulders;
22-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo type
36-Assigned to posts
founder;
outside the office;
1 photo type;
90—Total
1 engraver
R. Miyata (ms)
SNP,
1 rotary press
3-Assigned to directly
Kyodo
machine;
to directors;
4 type foundings;
39-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
44-Bus. dept.;
moulder;
17-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo type
7-Assigned to posts
founder;
outside the office;
2 photo types;
110—Total
1 engraver
11 branch offices &
Wakayama Keisen
5 rotary press
18-Edit. dept.;
6 stringers;
Shimbun
machines;
20-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
(Wakayama
2 type foundings;
4-Pub. dept.;
Economic
2 papier mache
26-Mech. dept.;
Newspaper)
moulders;
3-Other posts;
2 stereo type
35-Assigned to posts
founders;
outside the office;
1 photo type;
106—Total
1 engraver
2 branch offices;
15-Edit. dept.;
SNP,
10-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
12-Gen. dept.;
2-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
39—Total
2 branch offices &
2-Assigned to directly
3 stringers
to directors;
Kyodo
42-Edit. dept.;
59-Bus. dept.;
27-Gen. dept.;
130—Total
62 branch offices &
2 rotary press
11-Assigned to directly
8 stringers;
machines;
to directors;
Kyodo
7 type foundings;
30-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
10-Bus. dept.;
moulder;
65-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo type
23-Assigned to posts
founder;
outside the office;
2 photo types;
139—Total
2 engravers

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
90
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
CHUGOKU DISTRICT
Tottori—587,606; Okayama—1,819,622;
Population District—5,000,777
Shimane—894,267; Hiroshima—2,011,498;
Yamaguti—1,479,244
Name of Newspaper,
Circulation, Address
Minimum Advertisement
Line Rate. Classified &
Publisher Corporation &
Name of Pres., Capital
(me)—Managing Editor
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
(am)-Advertisement.
Special
(pe)—Political News
Manager
Editor
(cm)—Circulation
(ee)—Economic News
Manager
Editor
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Oaza, Yamaguchi-shi,
Bocho Shimbun (m)
1-2960, Kamiuno,
35,530
Y120-cl
K. Kumagaya, Pres.;
Bocho Shimbun
¥195,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Kawau (cde)
K. Fujimoto (me)
S. Kojima (gm)
T. Suda (bm)
M. Minami (cm)
Yamaguchi
Tel. 0244
Chugoku Shimbun
(m)
Y650-cl
Chougoku Shimbun
M. Kageyama (E. in
F. Chikufuji (bm)
193,292
Co., Ltd.
chief)
F. Chikufuji (am)
Kami Hiroshima,
2, Ryusen-cho,
T. Tikufuji, Pres.;
Y195,000
S. Itokawa (me)
T. Akutagawa (cde)
R. Yamamoto (gm)
K. Kukuoka (cm)
Hiroshima
I. Osako (pe)
K. Takasu (ee)
Tel. (Hiroshima)
3001,3003
Y. Miyoshi (ce)
Sanyo Shimbun (m)
151,151
Y420-cl
Sanyo Shimbun
M. Odera (me)
T. Kakahara (am)
77, Shimono-cho,
Co., Ltd.
F. Hirai (cde)
K. Akihisa (cm)
Okayama-shi,
K. Taniguchi, Pres.;
Y. Ono (pee)
M. Nakahara (gm)
Okayama
Y10,000,000
T. Aoki (ce)
K. Sakurama (bm)
Tel. 2601
Nihonkai Shimbun
(m)
Y110-cl
Nihonkai Shimbun
Y. Wakijima (E. in
I. Nishigaki (am)
30,000
Co., Ltd.
chief)
T. Fukumoto (cm)
61, Higashi
S. Kuramitsu, Pres.;
S. Shinta (me)
Shinaji-cho, Tottori
Y80,000
S. Shinta (cde)
Tel. (Tottori)
0136, 0743
Sanyo Choho (m)
30,000
Y130-cl
Sanyo Choho Co., Ltd.
K. Fujimoto (me)
T. Kokubu (bm)
40, Higashi
J. Sudo, Pres.;
T. Fujii (cde)
T. Kokubu (am)
Nakayamashita
Y300,000
K. Makabe (pee)
Y. Kameyama (em)
Okayama-shi,
Y. Sanada (ce)
Okayama
Tel. 3602
Shimane Shimbun
40,646
(m)
Y150-cl
Shimane Shimbun
G. Date, Pres.;
Co., Ltd.
T. Kato (me)
K. Nakajima (cde)
Hi Hirata (am)
S. Nakajima (bm)
383, Tonomachi,
K. Watanabe (bm)
Y199,000
Matsue-shi, Shimane
Y. Kotaki (gm)
Tel. (Matsue) 1686

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees:
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)-
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
Editorial Department
Manager
AP—Associated Press
(Bus. dept.)—
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
Business Department
Superintendent
INS—International News
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
(pm)—Publications
Service
General Administration
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
Department.
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Publications Department
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun
News Photo
Service
S. Sumida (ms)
5 branch offices &
1 rotary press
30-Edit.' dept.;
Y. Kuramoto (ps)
25 stringers;
machine,
37-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
2 type foundings,
42-Mech. dept.;
1 papier mache
107—Total
moulder,
1 stereo type fóunder,
1 photo type,
1 engraver
K. Yamane (ms)
5 branch offices &
Gekkan Chugoku
3 rotary press
85-Edit. dept.;
K. Ishikawa (ps)
107 stringers;
(Chugoku monthly);
machines,
50-Bus. dept.;
WTS, UP, SNP,
Kikan delta
8 type foundings,
66-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
(Quarterly delta)
1 papier mache
87-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
167-Assigned to posts
2 stereo type founders,
outside the offices;
2 photo types,
455—Total
1 engraver
T. Kanehira (ms)
39 branch offices &
7 rotary press
79-Edit. dept.;
T. Kanehira (ps)
22 stringers;
machines,
52-Gen. dept.;
UP, New York Times,
7 type foundings,
4-Print. dept.;
Kyodo
8 papier mache
123-Mech. dept.;
moulders,
55-Bus. dept.;
3 stereo type founders,
194-Assigned to post
3 photo types,
outside the office;
2 engravers
507—Total
M. Takeuchi (ms)
8 branch offices. &
2 rotary press
25-Bus. dept.;
T. Nakajima (ps)
21 stringers;
machines,
20-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
2 type foundings,
9-Print. dept.;
1 papier mache
31-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
17-Assigned to posts
1 stereo type founder,
outside the office;
1 photo type,
102—Total
1 engraver
15 branch offices
23-Edit. dept.;
20-Bus. dept.;
45-Mech. dept.;
47-Assigned to posts
outside the office
145—Total
Y. Akagi (ps)
12 branch offices;
Shogaku Shimane
2 rotary press
9-Assigned to directly
3 stringer;
(Newspaper for
machines,
to directors;
Kyodo
primary school
3 type foundings,
33-Edit. dept.;
children)
2 papier mache
16-Bus. dept.;
moulders,
26-Gen. dept.;
1 stereo type founder,
1-Print. dept.;
1 photo type,
63-Mech. dept.;
2 engravers
26-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
171—Total

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
92
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY-
Sanin Nichinichi
¥100-cl
Sanin Nichinichi
M. Ikeda (me)
T. Nishiyama (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Nishio (cde)
T. Furuyama (am)
30,000
T. Nishiyama, Pres.;
C. Nakano (cm)
105, Honcho, Yonago,
¥150,000
Tottori
Tel. 0924
Yukan Okayama (e)
Y130-cl
Yukan Okayama
Y. Kyoyama (me)
S. Matsumoto (bm)
30,000
Co., Ltd.
H. Okazaki (cde)
M. Ando (am)
77 Shimono-cho,
H. Hoshijima, Pres.;
T. Nakagawa (pee)
S. Harada (cm)
Okayama-shi,
¥100,000
I. Nakamura (gm)
Okayama
Tel.: (Okayama) 4170
Yukan Hiroshima (e)
Y130-cl
Yukan Hiroshima
T. Murakami (me)
H. Harasaki (cm)
33,000
Co., Ltd.
Y. Nagai (cde)
I. Uchida (bm)
2, Kami Ryusen-
M. Nagai (me)
machi, Hiroshima-shi,
Hiroshima
Tel. 3392
SHIKOKU DISTRICT
Kagawa—917,673; Tokushima—854,811; Kochi—848,337;
Ehime—1,453,887
Population-4,074,708
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation
(me)—Managing Editor
(gm)—General Manager
Girculation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Special
(pe)—Political News
(am)—Advertisement
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Ehime Shimbun (m)
350-cl
Ehime Shimbun Co.,
R. Matsumoto (me)
K. Saeki (am)
74,981
Ltd.
T. Nakamura (cde)
E. Tokuta (cm)
1, Ootemachi,
Y. Hirata, Pres.
T. Tanaka (pee)
K. Sawamoto (bm)
Matsuyama-shi,
¥1.000,000
Y. Yida (ce)
Ehime
Tel. 0903
Kochi Shimbun (m)
Y270-cl
Koshi Shimbun Co.,
S. Nakahira (me)
H. Kobun (am)
94,882
Ltd.
T. Ishimaru (gm)
24, Honcho, Kochi-shi,
Y. Kurio, Pres.
Kochi
¥240,000
Tel. 0173
Kochi Nippo (e)
¥100-cl
Kochi Nippo Co., Ltd.
S. Sawamura (me)
Y. Morita (bm)
30,000
T. Ono, Pres.
T. Miyazaki (pee)
K. Shimizu (gm)
111, Yokoji-machi,
¥2,500,000
M. Kawamura (ee)
T. Kususe (am)
Kochi-shi, Kochi
Tel. (Kochi) 0958

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
7 branch offices
Zen Sanin Kaisha
2-Assigned to d
14 stringers;
Shimane Prefecture)
to directors;
Kyodo
Yoin
44-Edit dept.;
(Information on
32-Bus. dept.;
Companies in all
49-Assigned posts
Sanin);
outside the office
Shimane Ken
127—Total
Shokuinroku
(List of personal of
Shimane)
T. Seyoshi (me)
10 branch offices;
Monthly "mado"
29-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
Monthly
21-Bus. dept.;
(Window)
4-Culture dept.;
10-Assigned to posts
outside the office:
64—Total
2-Assigned to dtrectly
8 branch offices,
Kyodo
to directors;
26-Edit. dept.;
5-Gen. dept.;
21-Bus. dept.;
16-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
70—Total
(ms)—Mechanical
Superintendent
Number of branch offices
& stringers Affiliated
Supplementary
Publications
Mechanical Departments
Equipments
No. of Employees:
(Edit. dept.)—
Editorial Department
(pm)—Publications
Manager
AP—Associated Press
News Agencies
(Bus. dept.)—
Business Department
(ps)—Printery
Superintendent
INS—International News
UP—United Press
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
General Administration
(pm)—Publications
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
ANP—Acme Newspictures
Service
Presse
(Pub. dept.)—
Publications Department
Department
WTS—World Telegram
Inc.
(Print. dept.)—
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun News Photo
Service
Y. Hirota (ms)
4 branch officers
Shikoku bunka
1 rotary press machine,
20-Assigned to directly
13 stringers
(Shikoku Culture)
4 type foundings,
to directors;
WTS, SNP, Kyodo
1 papier mache
45-Edit. dept.;
moulder,
46-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo founder,
10-Gen. dept.;
2 photo types,
9-Mech. dept.;
1 engraver
36-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
Total—
I. Nomachi (ms)
11 branch offices &
4 rotary press machine,
3-Assigned to directly
13 stringers,
7 type foundings,
to directors;
NHT, Kyodo
2 papier machine
62-Edit. dept.;
moulders,
73-Bus. dept.;
1 stero founder,
4-Publ. dept.;
1 photo type,
75-Print. dept.;
1 engraver
27-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
Y
235—Total
K. Ozawa (ms)
11 branch offices &
1 rotary press machine,
32-Edit. dept.;
K. Ozawa (ps)
8 stringers
3 type foundings,
56-Bus. dept.;
WTS, Kyodo
1 papier mache
44-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
27-Assigned to posts
1 stereo founder,
outside the office;
1 photo type,
159—Total
1 engraver

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Nankai Times (m)
¥100-cl
Nankai Times Co., Ltd.
M. Mitsuda (me)
S. Minaguchi (am)
20,000
¥130-sp
K. Nakano, Pres.
M. Mitsuda (cde)
T. Murakami,
1, Marunouchi,
¥190,000
K. Kikuta (cm)
Uwajima, Ehime
Tel. 0044
Shin Ehime
¥100-cl
Shin Ehime Shimbun
Y. Kobata (me)
K. Hara (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Abe (cde)
T. Wada (am)
30,000
K. Hara
S. Morita (cm)
Imabu-shi, Ehime
Tel. 0134
Shikoku Keizai (m)
￥100-cl
Shikoku Keizai;
E. Tsuruoka
H. Suehara (bm)
Shikoku Shimbun (m)
Shikoku Shimbun,
(E. in chief)
T. Matsuyoshi (am)
30,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Yoshinaga (me)
Z. Takahata (cm)
Sakura-cho,
S. Sonoda
S. Mizuguchi (cde)
Takamatsu, Kagawa
¥600,000
S. Miyake (ee)
Tel. (Takamatsu) 2035
M. Shimoda (ce)
Tokushima Mimpo
Y150-cl
Tokushima Mimpo
S. Takagi
S. Kawanaka (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
T. Saito (cm)
30,000
S. Kawanaka, Pres.
A. Shinohara (me)
A. Miyake (am)
10-11, Sako-cho,
¥185,000
T. Saito (me)
Tokushima
S. Takagi (pee)
Tel. 0281, 0282, 0283
T. Jinki (ce)
Tokushima Shimbun
¥200-cl
Tokushima Shimbun
H. Yokoyama
T. Izawa (cm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
(E.'in chief)
Y. Inahara (gm)
50,664
S. Maekawa, Pres.
S. Maekawa (me)
32-1, Saiwai-cho,
¥100,000
H. Yamada (cde)
Tokushima
Tel. 0038
HOKKAIDO DISTRICT
Population——3,852,821
Circulation, Address
Name of Newspaper
Minimum Advertisement
Line Rate, Classified &
Special
Publisher Corporation
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(me)—Managing Editor
(pe)—Political News
(gm)—General Manager
(gm)—General Manager
(bm)—Business Manager
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
Editor
Manager
(pee)—Political & Econo-
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Hokkai Times (e)
Y200-cl
Hokkai Times
T. Tone (E. in chief)
S. Miura (bm)
50,000
Co., Ltd.
K. Teramoto (me)
T. Shoji (am)
1-2, Nishi,
T. Wataru, Pres.;
K. Hayashi (cde)
T. Shoji (cm)
Kita Shijo,
¥190,000
Sapporo
Tel. 2735
Hakodate Shimbun
¥230-cl
Hakodate Shimbun
T. Hisa (E. in chief)
F. Omi (am)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Ishimoda (me)
K. Fuse (cm)
20, Saiwai-cho,
T. Hisa, Pres.;
R. Kojima (bm)
Hakodate
¥6,000,000
Tel. 5680

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
S. Minaguchi (ms)
3 branch offices &
1 rotary press machine,
5-Assigned to dir
6 stringers,
1 type founding,
to directors;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
27-Edit. dept.;
moulder,
14-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo founder
2-Gen. dept.;
20-Mech. dept.;
11-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
79—Total
r. Ofuji (ps)
5 branch offices,
1 rotary press machine,
6-Assigned to directly
H. Okada (bs)
10 stringers,
2 type foundings,
to directors;
Kyodo
1 papier machine
30-Edit. dept.;
moulder,
14-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo founder,
22-Mech. dept.;
1 photo type,
40-Assigned to posts
1 engraver
outside the office;
112—Total
S. Yasutoku (ps)
2 branch office &
Shikoku Shunju
1 rotary press machine,
5-Assigned to directly
4 stringers,
(Shikoku Spring and
5 type foundings,
to directors;
Kyodo
Autumn Magazine)
1 papier mache
55-Edit. dept.;
moulder,
43-Bus. dept.;
1 stereo founder,
2-Pub. dept.;
1 photo type,
97-Chem. dept.;
1 engraver
16-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
218—Total
3 branch offices &
1 rotary press machine,
39-Edit. dept.;
T. Okada (ms)
10 stringers;
3 type foundings,
24-Bus. dept.;
WTS, SNP, Kyodo
1 papier machine
20-Mech. dept.;
moulder,
83—Total
1 stereo founder,
1 photo-type
S. Tanimoto (ms)
15 branch offices
3 rotary press
34-Edit. dept.;
4 stringers;
machines,
35-Gen. dept.;
WTS, SNP, Kyodo
6 type foundings,
56-Mech. dept.;
2 papier mache
20—Assigned to posts
moulders,
outside the 'office;
2 stereo founders,
145—Total
1 photo type,
2 engravers
(ms)—Mechanical
Number of branch offices
Supplementary
Mechanical Departments
No. of Employees:
(pm)—Publications
Superintendent
& stringers Affiliated
News Agencies
Publications
Equipments
(Edit. dept.)—
Editorial Department
(ps)—Printery
Manager
Superintendent
INS—International News
AP—Associated Press
UP--United Press
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
(Bus. dept.)—
Business Department
(pm)—Publication
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
Presse
Service
General Administration
Department
ANP—Acme Newspictures
(Pub. dept.)—
Publications Department
Inc.
(Ppint. dept.)—
WTS—World Telegram
Printary Department
Service
RP—Radio Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun
News Photo
Service
8 branch offices,
36-Edit. dept.;
13 stringers;
25-Bus. dept.;
34-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
95—Total
S. Nakajima (ms)
5 branch offices,
1 rotary press
40-Edit. dept.;
5 stringers;
machine,
61-Mech. dept.;
SNP,
3 type founding,
48-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
1 papier mache
3-Assigned to posts
moulder,
outside the office;
1 stereo founder,
183—Total
1 photo type,
1 engraver

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
96
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Hokkaido Shimbun
￥1400-cl
Hokkaido Shimbun
T. Matoba (me)
K. Aso (sm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Kanamori (cde)
Y. Tsurya (cm)
6-3, Nishi Oodori,
S. Abe, Pres.;
T. Odaka (pe)
Sapporo
¥1,000,000
M. Nishisato (ce)
Tel. 2500
Hokkai Nichinichi
Y230-cl
Hokkai Nichinichi
E. Yokoyama (me)
K. Kanewa (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Toyomura (cde)
Y. Tanaka (am)
4-8, Ichijo-tori,
M. Mayumi, Pres.;
S. Kishibe (cm)
Asahikawa
¥1,000,000
K. Sato (gm)
Tel. (Asahikawa) 4171
Muroran Minpo (m)
Y110-cl
Muroran Minpo
F. Tsuji (me)
K. Tsuchii (bm)
11,250
Co., Ltd.
T. Morii (cde)
K. Tsuchii (acm)
41, Senzai-cho,
F. Tsuji, Pres.;
Muroran
¥600,000
Tel. 0458, 0789
Shin Hokkai
Y230-cl
Shin Hokkai
K. Tani (me)
S. Tajima (cm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
S. Fujita (cde)
T. Ito (bm)
70,000
M. Ochiai, Pres.;
K. Tani (pee)
1-4, Nishi Odori,
¥500,000
K. Nanbe (ce)
Sapporo-shi
Tel. (Sapporo) 6190
KYUSHU DISTRICT
Fukuoka—3,178,134; Ooita—1,233,651;Saga—917,797;
Nagasaki—1,531,674; Kumamoto—1,765,726; Miyazaki—
Population—8,538,676
1,025,689; Kagoshima—1,746,305
Name of Newspaper,
Minimum Advertisement
Publisher Corporation
(me)—Managing Editor
(gm)—Genera! Manager
Circulation, Address
Line Rate, Classified &
Name of Pres., Capital
(cde)—Copy-desk Editor
(bm)—Business Manager
Special
(pe)—Political News
(am)—Advertisement
Editor
Manager
(ee)—Economic News
(cm)—Circulation
(pee)—Political & Econo-
Manager
Editor
mic News Editor
(ce)—City Editor
t
(fe)—Foreign News Editor
(e. in chief)—Editor in
Chief
Asahi Shimbun (m)
Y800-cl
Asahi Shimbun
S. Kurozumi (me)
K. Odanaka (bm)
(Seibu)
Co., Ltd.
M. Okada (cde)
T. Tateishi (am)
563,757
G. Kato, Pres.;
N. Ito (ce)
K. Kobayashi (cm)
1, 38-Kita Aza-tomino,
¥10,000,000
Sunatsu, Kokura,
Fukuoka
Tel. 2781
Hyuga Nichinichi
¥150-cl
nichi Shimbun
H. Nakamura (me)
T. Ota (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Yamanouchi (cde)
U. Akimoto (am)
38,212
M. Matsushita, Pres.;
T. Yamaguchi (gm)
34-2, Takachiho-dori,
¥165,000
Miyazaki-shi,
Miyazaki
Tel. 1381, 1212

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Y. Sato (ms)
9 branch offices
Hokkaido Weekly;
13 rotary press
8-Assigned to di
K. Kobayashi (ps)
T. Doi (bs)
New York Times,
29 stringers,
Hokkaido Nenkan
(Hokkaido Year
28-type foundings,
machines,
200-Edit. dept
to directors;
UP, SNP,
Book)
8 papier mache
179-Mech, dept
Kyodo
moulders,
177-Bus. dept
5 stereo founders,
1069-Assigned to posts
9 photo types,
outside the office;
9 engravers
1633—Total
K. Arai (ms)
19 branch offices
1 rotary press
43-Edit. dept.;
3 stringers,
machine,
24-Bus. dept.;
1 type founding,
29-Gen. dept.;
SNP,
Kyodo
1 papier mache
moulder,
69-Mech. dept.;
56-Assigned to posts
1 photo type,
outside the office;
1 engraver
221—Total
H. Miyai (ms)
K. Sai (ps)
6 branch offices
Kyodo
1 stringer;
Shoko Meikan
industrial annual)
(Commercial and
1 rotary press
1 type founding,
1 papier mache
machine,
10-Edit. dept.;
14-Bus. dept.;
24-Mech. dept.;
18-Assigned to posts
moulder,
outside the office;
1 stereo founder,
66—Total
2 photo types,
1 engraver
3 rotary press
60-Edit. dept.;
K. Nágae (ms)
17 branch offices
machines,
55-Mech. dept.;
13 stringers,
4 type foundings,
52-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
2 papier mache
57-Assigned to posts
moulders,
outside the office;
2 stereo founders,
234—Total
2 photo types,
1 engraver
(ms)—Mechanical
Superintendent
Number of branch offices
& stringers Affiliated
Supplementary
Publications
Mechanical Departments
Equipments
No. of Employees:
(Edit. dept.)—
Editorial Department
(pm)—Publications
News Agencies
(Bus. dept.)—
Manager
AP—Associated Press
Business Department
(ps)—Printery
UP—United Press
(Gen. Adm. dept.)—
Superintendent
INS—International News
General Administration
(pm)—Publications
Service
Department
Manager
AFP—Agence France de
(Pub. dept.)—
Presse
Publications Department
ANP—Acme Newspictures
(Print. dept.)—
Inc.
Printary Department
WTS—World Telegram
Service
RP—Radic Press
Kyodo—Kyodo News
Agency
SNP—Sun
News Photo
Service
339-Edit. dept.;
M. Yoshimura (ps)
S. Sako (Print. s)
27 branch offices &
Tokyo
13 rotary press
13 type foundings;
machines;
5-Pub. dept.;
25-Gen. dept.;
26 stringers;
3 papier mache
295-Mech. dept.;
UP, Reuter,
AFP, SNP,
4 stero type
moulders;
91-Welfare dept.;
235-Bus. dept.;
RP,
founders;
251-Assigned to
Kyodo
4 photo types;
posts outside
the offices;
4 engravers
1252—Total
34-Edit. dept.;
K. Nemoto (ms)
8 branch offices &
2 rotary press
29-Bus. dept.;
S. Ito (ps)
stringers;
machines;
10-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
3 type foundings;
47-Mech. dept.;
1 papier mache
25-Assigned to
moulder,
posts outside the
2 stereo type
office;
founders;
145-Total
1 photo type;
1 engraver

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
98
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Kyushu Times (e)
¥230-cl
Kyushu Times
H. Shimoi
S. Okaku (bm)
70,000
Co., Ltd.
(E. in chief)
T. Yasuda (am)
41, Tenjin-cho,
B. Arakawa, Pres.;
H. Shimoi (me)
S. Hiwatari (cm)
Fukuoka-shi, Fukuoka
¥190,000
T. Hirata (ce)
Tel. (Nishi) 1298
Kumamoto Nichi
¥440-cl
Kumamoto Nichi
H. Sasa
T. Hirose (bm)
nichi Shimbun (m)
nichi Shimbun
(E. in chief)
M. Fujishita (am)
98,083
Co., Ltd.
S. Kobori (me)
42, Kamitori-cho,
J. Murakami, Pres.;
S. Shimada (cde)
Kumamoto-shi,
¥195,000
K. Ozaki (Pee)
Kumamoto
I. Noma (ce)
Tel. 2202
Mainichi Shimbun
¥800-cl
Mainichi Shimbun
K. Kamo (E. in chief)
S. Yamada (am)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Miyazaki (cde)
S. Yamato (em)
549,738
K. Kamo, Pres.;
K. Sasai (ee)
Y. Nakatsubo (gm)
(Seibu)
¥10,000,000
Z. Nakayama (ce)
Y. Nakatsubo (bm)
1-Kiyotaki-cho,
Moji-shi, Fukuoka
Tel. 2710
Minami Nihon
¥440-cl
Minami Nihon
S. Tatanaka (me)
Y. Yoshida (bm)
Shimbun (m)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Fukumitsu (pee)
M. Arikawa (am)
104,032
K. Nagai, Pres.;
K. Shioda (ce)
M. Minezaki (cm)
4-2 Yasui-cho,
Y210,000
T. Tagami (gm)
Kagoshima-sni,
Kagoshima
Tel. 2200
Nishinihon Shimbun
¥900-cl
Nishi Nihon Shimbun
K. Otabe (E. in chief)
K. Kaejima (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
T. Sugawara (me)
K. Kaejima (am)
524,864
N. Tanaka, Pres.;
T. Fukudo (cde)
K. Mitsuyasu (cm)
894, Shimokeigo,
Y1,500,000
M. Hayashida (pee)
Y. Noguchi (gm)
Fukuoka
T. Sakai (ce)
Tel. (Nishi) 4001
Nagasaki Nichi nichi
¥160-cl
Nagasaki Nichi nichi
K. Ogawa (me)
H. Mine (bm)
(m)
29,640
T. Hoshino, Pres.;
Co., Ltd.
K. Nakao (cde)
I. Hirayama (cm)
T. Kure (am)
14 Funatsu-machi,
Y190,000
Nagasaki-shi,
Nagasaki
Tel. 4000
Nagasaki Minyu (m)
¥120-cl
Nagasaki Minyu
H. Harata (me)
Y. Izumio (cm)
27,450
Co., Ltd.
T. Sakamoto (cde)
Y. Yamashita (cm)
1, Dijima-cho,
J. Tanaka, Pres.;
H. Ide (pee)
T. Tanaka (gm)
Nagasaki-shi,Nagasaki
¥1,000,000
S. Kataoka (ce)
Tel. 5000-5002
Ooita Godo Shimbun
¥270-cl
Ooita Godo Shimun
K. Ootsu (me)
T. Nagano (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
K. Hara (cde)
S. Naga (am)
62,570
T. Ootsu, Pres.;
T. Kubifuji (cm)
2, Niage-cho,
¥198,000
Y. Lryuda (gm)
Ooita-shi, Ooita
Tel. 0005, 0010

=== Page 180 === (confidence 1.00)
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
3 branch offices;
40-Edit.- dept.
SNP,
25-Bus. dept;
Kyodo
14-Gen. dept.;
42-Assigned to
posts outside
the office;
121—Total
K. Nakajima
11 branch offices &
2. rotary press
4-Assigned to directly
(ms)
19 stringers;
machines;
to directors;
UP,
5 type foundings;
40-Edit. dept.;
Kyodo
3 papier mache
66-Bus. dept.;
moulders;
95-Mech. dept.;
2 stereo type
40-Assigned to
founders;
posts outside
2 photo types;
the office;
1 engraver
245—Total
T. Ando (ms)
10 branch offices &
Same as
6 rotary press
2-Assigned to directly
T. Noguchi (ps)
37 stringers;
Tokyo
machines,
to directors;
UP, Reuter, AFP,
9 type foundings,
205-Edit. dept.;
SNP,
2 papier mache
139-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
moulders,
197-Gen. dept.;
2 stereo type founders,
288-Mech. dept.;
3 photo types,
159-Assigned to posts
2 engravers
outside the office;
.990—Total
M. Ishihara (ms)
7 branch offices &
Sangyo Minami
2 rotary press
31-Assigned to directly
90 stringers;
Nihon
machines,
to directors;
Kyodo
(Industrial South
11 type foundings,
73-Edit. dept.;
Japan)
2 papier mache
77-Bus. dept.;
moulders,
90-Mech. dept.;
2 stereo type founders,
132-Assigned posts
2 photo types,
outside the office;
2 engravers
403—Total
R. Sakai (ms)
3 branch offices &
Science Nishi Nihon;
3 rotary press
5-Assigned to directly
K. Kajiwara (ps)
56 stringers;
Shin Bunka
machifes,
to directors;
INS, AFP, SNP, UP,
(New Culture);
10 tpe foundings,
229-Edit. dept.;
New York Herald
World
3 papier mache
48-Bus. dept.;
Tribune, RP,
moulders,
199-Gen. dept.;
Kyodo
2 stereo type founders,
30-Pub. dept.;
3 photo types,
450-Mech. dept.;
2 engravers
272-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
1238—Total
Y. Kimura (ms)
11 branch offices &
Nagasaki Magazine;
1 rotary press
1-Assigned to directly
10 stringers;
Nagasaki-ken Yoran
machine,
to directors;
Kyodo
(List of Nagasaki)
1 type founding,
25-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
42-Bus. dept.;
moulder,
44-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo type founder,
24-Assigned to posts
1 photo type,
outside the office;
1 engraver
136—Total
H. Nishida (ms)
19 branch offices &
2 rotary press
3-Assigned to directly
S. Kubo (ps)
5 stringers;
machines,
to directors;
Kyodo
1 type founding,
27-Edit. dept.;
1 papier mache
3-Pub. dept.;
moulder,
41-Mech. dept.;
1 stereo type founder
42-Bus. dept.;
28-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
144—Total
T. Nagano (ms)
10 branch offices &
2 rotary press
63-Edit. dept.;
S. Kimoto (ps)
11 stringers;
machines,
60-Bus. dept.;
SNP,
6 type foundings,
50-Mech. dept.;
Kyodo
2 papier mache
31-Assigned to posts
moulders,
outside the office;
1 stereo type founder,
204—Total
2 photo types,
2 engravers

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
100
NEWSPAPER DIRECTORY
Shin Kyushu
¥230-cl
Shinkyushu
S. Oono (me)
T. Saito (am)
Shimbun (e)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
T. Nose (cde)
K. Ogawara (cm)
70,000
M. Asari, Pres.;
K. Matsumi (ce)
S. Shiodå (gm)
10-chome Higashi
¥195,000
S. Asari (bm)
dori-cho,
Osato, Moji-shi,
Fukuoka
Tel. 2044
Saga Shimbun (m)
¥130-cl
Saga Shimbun Co.,
S. Sugimoto (me)
K. Nakao (bm)
30,000
Partnership
K. Muda (cde)
N. Otsuka (am)
62-Matsubara-cho,
S. Sugimoto, Pres.;
Y. Kamimura (cm)
Saga-shi, Saga
¥160,000
S. Furukawa (gm)
Tel. 1182, 1446, 1559
Sasebo Jiji Shimbun
Y70-cl
Sasebo Jiji Shimbun
S. Moroichi (me)
K. Tanaka (bm)
(m)
Co., Ltd.
H. Kawauchi (am)
8,120
S. Kadoya, Pres.;
S. Eguchi (cm)
39, Matsura-cho,
¥2,650,000
T. Suzuki (gm)
Sasebo-shi, Nagasaki
Tel. 0398, 0399
Shin Shimabara
Y50-cl
Shin Shimabara
H. Shibata (E. in
T. Okada (am)
Shimbun (e)
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
chief)
Y. Edome (cm)
6,180
H. Shimizu, Pres.;
T. Tadokono (me)
M. Nakajima (gm)
865, Nakamachi
¥500,000
T. Tsudome (cde)
Shimabara-shi
Shimabara-shi,
Nagasaki
Tel. (Shimabra) 0129
Yukan Fukunichi (e)
Y300-cl
Yukan Fukunichi
Z. Akimoto (me)
K. Tsuneya (bm)
28 Tenjin-cho,
Shimbun Co., Ltd.
H. Tei (cde)
T. Ura (am)
Fukuoka-shi, Fukuoka
S. Nakano, Pres.;
F. Ueno (ce)
T. Tahara (cm)
Tel. (Nishi) 5085
￥100,000
T. Ura (gm)

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
NEWSPAPER· DIRECTORY
9 branch offices;
Manga
43-Edit
SNP,
Shin kyushu
32-Bua. de
Kyodo
(Caricatural
27-Assigned to
new Kyushu)
posts outsid
the office;
102-Total
A. Yasumoto (ms)
10 branch
Saga Shonen
18-Edit. dept.;
A. Sugimoto (ps)
offices;
Shimbun
27-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
(Saga Children's
14-Gen. dept.
newspaper);
7-Pub. dept.;
Saganenkan
34-Mech. dept.;
(Saga
27-Assigned to
Year Book)
posts outside
the office;
127-Total
K. Mizuguchi (ms)
8 branch offices &
1 rotary press
21-Edit. dept.;
T. Sugiura (ps)
1 stringer;
machine,
16-Bus. dept.;
Kyodo
1 type founding,
30-Mech. dept.;
1 papier mache
18-Assigned to posts
moulder,
outside the office;
1 stereo type founder,
85—Total
1 photo type,
1 engraver
I. Yamakita (ms)
8 branch offices;
Gakkan Shin
1 rotary press
8-Edit. dept.;
H. Haira (ps)
Kyodo
Shimabara
machine,
10-Bus. dept.;
(Shimabara
2 papier mache
3-Gen. dept.;
monthly)
moulders,
2-Pub. dept.;
1 stereo type founder,
16-Mech. dept.;
1 photo type,
23-Assigned to posts
1 engraver
outside the office;
62—Total
35-Edit. dept.;
42-Bus. dept.;
20-Assigned to posts
outside the office;
97—Total

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
(Existing Dailies belongingto the Japan Newspaper
Publishers' and Editors' Association)
Akita Sakigake Shimpo—31, 76
Kochi Shimbun—31, 92
Sekai Keizai Shimbun—23, 70
Asahis (including Tokyo, Osaka and
Kogyo Shimbun—24, 68
Shiga Shimbun—88
Kokura papers)—1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
Kumamoto Nichinichi Shimbun—24, 27,
Shikoku Shimbun—94
12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26,
98
Shimane Shimbun—90
27,28, 29, 37,40, 41, 47,66, 72, 96
Kyodo Tsushin (Kyodo News Service)
Shimotsuke Shimbun—76
—1, 17, 46, 68
Shinano Mainichi Shimbun—1, 27, 82
Bocho Shimbun—90
Kyoto Nichinichi Shimbun—86
Shin Ehime Shimbun-94
Chubu Keizai Shimbun—24, 26, 80
Kyoto Shimbun—19, 22, 27, 86
Shin Hokkai—24, 96
Chubu Nippon Shimbun—1, 16, 19, 24,
Kyushu Times—23, 24, 98
Shin Iwate Nippo—78
Shinko Yukan—88
25,26, 40,78
Mainichis (including Tokyo, Osaka and
Shin Kyushu—24, 100
Chugoku Shimbun—1, 16; 27, 40, 90
Moji papers)—1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
Shin Nihon Shimbun—74
Chukyo Shimbun—24, 78
16, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29,
Shin Shimabara—100
Daiichi Shimbun—22, 27, 66
31, 37, 41, 47, 68, 72, 98
Shin Tokai—80
Daily Tohoku—76
Minami Nihon Shimbun—27, 98
Shinyo Shimbun—24, 80
Miyako (Kyoto) Shimbun—22, 86
Shin Yukan—23, 47, 70
Ehime Shimbun—92
Muroran Mimpo—24, 96
Shizuoka Shimbun—80
Fukui Shimbun—40, 82
Nagoya Times—24,-26, 40, 80
Sun News Photos—23, 70
Fukushima Mimpo—76
Nagasaki Minyu—98
Sun Shashin Shimbun—27, 28, 68
Fukushima Minyu—29, 76
Nagasaki Nichinichi Shimbun—98
Tokai Mainichi Shimbun—24, 82
Gifu Times—24, 80
Nankai Times—94
Tokai Yukan—24, 82
Nanshin Nichinichi Shimbun—86
Tokyo Shimbun—1, 16, 27, 40, 70
Hakodate Shimbun—24, 94
Nihonkai Shimbun—90
Tokyo Times—1, 22, 23, 27, 37, 40, 47, 70
Hochj Shimbun—8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 22,
Nihon Keizai Shimbun—1, 13, 16, 21, 22,
Tokushima Mimpo—94
23,41,66
23, 27, 28, 40, 68
Tokushima Shimbun—94
Hokkaido Shimbun—1, 16, 19, 20, 24, 26,
Niigata Nippo—27, 84
Too Nippo—78
28,30,40,96
Nikkan Sports—22, 23, 68
Toyama Shimbun—84
Hokkai Nichinichi Shimbun—24, 96
Nippon Times—23, 68
Hokkai Times—24, 96
Nishi Nippon Shimbun—1, 16, 20, 24, 26,
Wakayama Shimbun—40, 88
Hokkoku Mainichi Shimbun—27, 84
31,40,98
Yamagata Shimbun—78
Hokuriku Yukan—22, 84
Nobi Shimbun—26, 80
Yamanashi Jiji Shimbun—82
Hyuga Nichinichi Shimbun—96
Ooita Godo Shimbun—98
Yamanashi Nichinichi Shimbun—82
Ibaraki Shimbun—74
Osaka Jiji Shimpo—24, 27, 72
Yamato Times—88
Ise Shimbun—24, 86
Osaka Nichinichi Shimbun—22, 24, 27,
Yomiuri Shimbun—1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
Ishikawa Shimbun—84
28, 72
13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30,
Iwate Shimpo—27, 76
Osaka Shimbun—27, 72
31,37, 40,41, 70
Osaka Times—23, 72
Yukan Fukunichi—24, 100
Jiji Tsushin (Jiji Press)—22, 47, 66
Yukan Hiroshima—22, 27, 92
Jiji Shimpo—5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
Radio Press—28, 68
Yukan Kyoto—22, 23, 88
14, 22, 23, 27, 28, 41,66
Saga Shimbun—100
Yukan Mie—24, 88
Jomo Shimbun—74
Saitama Shimbun—76
Yukan Miyako—70
Sangyokeizai Shimbun—27, 74
Yukan Niigata—22, 84
Kahoku Shimpo—27. 78
Sanin Nichinichi Shimbun—92
Yukan Okayama—27, 92
Kanagawa Shimbun—74
Sanyo Choho—27, 90
Yukan Shin Osaka—22, 24, 27, 30, 74
Kita Nihon Shimbun—84
Sanyo Shimbun—27, 90
Yukan Shinshu—24, 82
Kobe Shimbun—1, 19, 22, 27, 86
Sasebo Jiji Shimbun—100
Yukan Tohoku—27, 78
Kochi Nippo—92
Seiji Shimbun—23, 70

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
NEWSPAPER READERS CHART
TOTAL
NÉWSPAPER CIRCULATION
18,403.136
TOTAL
POPULATION
78,101.473
TOTAL
NUMBER OF HOUSEHOLDS
15,870.811
( AS OF APRIL 1, 1948)
HIROSHIMA
JOFK
10000 KW
JOFB
10000KW
OSAKA
NAGOYA
JOBK 10000K
JOCK 10000KW
KUMAMOTO
JOBB 10000KW
JOCD
10000KW
WVTQ 10000KW
WUTC 1OOOOKW
JOGK I00OOKW
JOGBJOOOOKW
MATSUYAMA
JOZK 500 KW
JOZB 300 KW

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 1l, 1949
No. 88
UNCLASSIF IED (For Department use only)
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for Week Ending February 10,
4
1949
S
894.9111/
2
C.I
TheHonorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
I have the honor to refer to the Hission's despatch no. 71
of February 4, 1949 and to previous despatches on the above sub-
ject, and to transmit a summary of Japanese newspaper reactions
to current events for the week of February 4 through February 10,
1149
1949.
Summary
Editorial attention of Tokyo newspapers has covered a wide
variey of topics during the past week including the reply of
Secretary of State ACHESON to the STALIN peace offer, the visit
to Japan of Secretary of the Army Kenneth C. ROYALL and his
party, with some emphasis on the statement made here by Assistant
Secretary of Labor GIBSON. Local topics of principal interest
have been the political maneuverings leading to the formation of
the tnird YOHIDA Cabinet, and the conditions and prospects for
food crops.
Acheson Reply to Stalin
Asahi's discussion of the reply made by Secratary of State
Acheson to Stalin's unofficial suggestions for a meeting with
President TRUMAN showed an appreciation of Mr. Acheson's point
that discussions should be through the United Nations, and stated,
".ie consider this a most just and proper attitude."
Mainichi missed the point of Secretary Acheson's statement
that composition of differences must be through the United Nations.
It did
UNCLASSIFTED
DMR
19:3
e

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 88,
February 11, 1949
-2-
It did, however, grasp the idea that if Stalin desires peace, "he
must show it by his conduct." rather than by words.
Visit of Secretary Royall
Additional editorial comment on the Secretary of the Army's tour
of the Far East followed the path already worn smooth by earlier
speculations. Discussion of the position of labor in Japan by Assistant
Secretary of Labor Gibson prompted analytical comment in Mainichi and
Asahi. The former declared: "Although it may appear that government,
capital and labor were respectively severely criticized for their
conduct, what runs through Mr. Gibson's comments is the strong desire
that the role of labor unions in a democratic country be properly
recognized, and that labor unions be democratized and independent...
However, Mr. Gibson warned against the abuse of the right to strike
which had caused labor to 'go too far.' This point should be remembered
by labor unions." Mainichi added, however, that management, likewise,
"must be ready to make sacrifices." Both these newspapers underscored
Mr. Gibson's view that the National Public Service Law would require
revision. Asahi considered that "it is natural for labor unions to
demand that the sacrifices resulting from the enforcement of the nine
economic principles (for economic stabilization) be shared equally by
capit al and labor," and concluded that "to resort to a reckless exercise
of the right to strike, as was the case in the past, in an attempt to
push their demands, is to destroy the foundations of economic stabiliza-
tion." Asahi pleaded for self-restraint by labor unions in the use of
the strike weapon and "struggle tactics," and found that Mr. Gibson's
statement should be understood as "leaving as free a margin as possible
for the development of labor unions, while relying upon the proper
judgment of Japan's workers."
Purge Appeals Committee Appointments
Editorial comment is still lacking on Premier Yoshida's forming
a new Purge Appeals Committee, but noncommittal news stories have
followed its development, including an official statement that "the
government does not intend to alter fundamentally the basic principles
of the purge." Seikei Joho (a newsletter circulated to private sub-
scribers) linked Premier Yoshida's intentions to strengthen the Socialist
Party as a cushion between his conservative Democratic Liberal Party
and the st rong Communist Party opposition in the House of Representatives
and his moves to establish a Purge Appeals Committee. It stated: "It
seems that Premier Yoshida is contemplating the purge clearance of
KAWAKAMI Jotaro and KONO Mitsu as a means of strengthening the Socialist
Party."
Cabinet Composition
Political commentators in many newspapers have covered a wide
range of alternatives facing Premier Yoshida in the choice of his
cabinet
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 88,
February 11, 1949
-3
cabinet ministers. Discussions have dealt with details of interest
principally to Japanese readers, but major newspapers have con-
sistently advised Yoshida to adhere to a one-party composition of
his cabinet and not to attempt any conservative coalition. Mainichi
also emphasized the general proposition that the cabinet should
include "fresh men." It stated: "The DLP (Premier Yoshida's Demo-
cratic Liberal Party) is very unpopular abroad. If the DLP nominates
boss-like, out-of-date statesmen to posts of cabinet ministers, the
new Yoshida cabinet will not be heartily accepted by other nations
or by the people. By 'fresh men' we mean men of fresh opinion and
political sense." Dai Ichi Shimbun said that "not one person suspected
of being involved in any of the recent scandals must join the Cabinet."
Jiji Shimpo felt that Premier Yoshida has occasionally been "off the
track" in personnel matters, and stated that "political history shows
that in Japan all parties which gained an absolute majority in the
Diet split afterwards because of intra-party conflicts which were,
in almost all cases, due to collisions of sentiment rather than dis
parity of opinion concerning policy." Jiji Shimpo therefore advleed
Premier Yoshida to be "cautious" in his "personnel affairs."
Weather and Food Supply
The weather and the farmers' completion of their rice quota were
prominently played. Mainichi pointed out that the mild winter this
year in Japan has been quite abnormal and considered that the winter
wheat crop might be reduced by as much as 50,000,000 bushels, aug-
menting by that amount the usual Japanese annual shortage of 100,000,000
bushels of grain. Stating that nothing is so "unreliable as predictions
regarding the weather," it observed tartly that "this is no time for
the Agriculture Forestry Ministry to rely on what is unreliable."
This newspaper blamed the Ministry for failure to provide insect con-
trols during the winter and advised all its readers to look to their
home vegetable gardens. Nihon Keizai came to the same conclusion
after deploring the "freakish" weather which has so far produced the
warmest winter here since 1932. This newspaper stated that lumbering
in Hokkaido and the Tohoku district has been severely affected by
the lack of snow, lumber being brought out normally on sleds. It
feared a water shortage detrimental to the spring-plarted rice crop
and noted that agar-agar, nori (an edible seaweed), frozen bean curd
and the dried radish industries had already been severely affected.
It stated that the lumber shortage would begin to be felt in April
and thereafter.
Yomiuri played prominently the fulfillment of rice delivery
quotas by Japanese farmers in a detailed tabulation prefecture by
prefecture. It reported that the rice quotas were, as of February 7,
1949, met 100.12% fifty days earlier than last year, and stated:
"The life of austerity and earnest efforts of farmers all over the
nat ion account for this excellent record." Asahi, without troubling
to compliment the farmers, ascribed the results to "thoroughgoing
operation
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 88,
February 11, 1949
-4-
operation of the advance allocations system as well as to the rich
harvest." It stated that Japanese farners would be asked to de
liver another 1,300,000 koka (one koku equals about 5.12 bushels) at
the government-established price of three times that for ordinary
quota delivery. Asahi stated, "At present the black market price
of rice is lower than the three-fold price in most farming villages.
Therefore, farmers want to deliver over-quota rice to the Government
rather than sell it through dangerous illegal channels. Only the
taxation problem often prevents them from doing so." As a way out
of this dilemma, this newspaper considered that since "farmers have a
morbid fear of taxation," it would be preferable "to fix a tax-free
rice price even though it is lower than the three-fold price." Asahi
also noted that the warm winter weather endangers the wheat crop and
that delayed food rationing may greatly affect the Economic Stabiliza
tion Program.
Repeal of Color Bar in United States Laws
All metropolitan newspapers on February 10 carried foreign press
dispatches reporting the unanimous approval given by the House Judi-
ciary Committee to the bill sponsored by Representative Walter H.
JUDD to repeal provi sions in the laws of the United States barring
Asiatics from immigration and naturalization. On February 9, Cabinet
Secretary SATO issued an official statement "rejoicing" at the action
of the Judiciary Committee. After expressing the hope that the bill
would soon be approved by Congress, he stated that this action "is
proof that the Occupation forces have understood the actual situation
in Japan and that all the American people entertain special good will
toward Japan. We hereby express our heartfelt thanks for this American
kindness." In contrast to the unanimous news play on foreign dispatches
on the subject, only Jiji Shimpo carried the Sato statement.
Respectfully yours,
h.cae
W. J. Sebald
631
AHaden:hh
Original and hectograph
to Department
Copy to American Embassy,
London
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 18, 1949
No. 108
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only).
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
February 17, 1949.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
894.
Washington.
Rec'd
Sir:
Feb 25
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's despatch no. 88
of February 11, 1949 and to previous despatches on the above sub-
ACTION
ject, and to transmit a summary of Japanese newspaper reactions
FE
to current events for the week of February 1l through February 17,
1949。
INFO
DCR
0
Summary
OLI
Fonnation of the third YOSHIDA cabinet and ancillary political
matters commanded the bulk of news and editorial ati ntion in the
vernacular press during the period under review: On one day, the
SORGE spy case released by the Department of the Army in Washington
captured lead play. News play and editorial attention to speculative
stories quoting a high official American source on the strategic
value of Japan to the United States have been consistently subordinated
to local politics.
Japan's Position in United States Strategy
Clippings and three editorials reflecting the local press treat-
ment accorded the alleged off--the-record statements of a high American
military authority regarding Japan's position in United States strategy
were transmitted to the Department as enclosures to this Mission's
despatch no. 102 of February 17, 1949. In addition to the editorials
under reference, an editorial in Sekai Keizai has come to the attention
of this Mission. This newspaper considered that an important point
brought
UNCLASSIFIED
MAY 4 1945
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 108,
February 18, 1949.
-2-
brought out by the discussion of Japan's strategic position is that
Japan's security depends on foreign powers. Saying that Japan's
defeat had "left a blank spot on the political map of the Far East,"
Sekai Keizai continued: "If Japan is to be independent politically
as well as economically and spiritually, she, as a peaceful country
without armament, must achieve strong domestic cooperation, Moreover,
it is desirable that Japan, as a country with a constitution which
renounces war, be courageous enough to head the world's peace move-
ment, and this with sincere determination." It hoped for speedy
stabilization throughout the world and non-involvement in another war,
and added: "We sustain the hope that peace measures realistic enough
to fill the void caused by Japan's defeat in the politico-economic
map of the Far East will be formulated quickly."
Japanese newspapers have in general emphasized the single point
that United States troops would be withdrawn from Japan should stra-
tegic necessities so dictate.
Yoshida Cabinet Formation
The newspapers have followed with close attention the political
maneuvers engaging the energies of leaders in the Democratic Liberal
and in the De ocratic Parties to form a coalition cabinet. Premier
Shigeru Yoshida's past and present attitudes have come in for searching
examination, Efforts of Ken INUKAI, President of the Democratic Party,
to have his party represented in the cabinet despite a party caucus
decision to the contrary have been carefully followed. Announcement
of the cabinet's membership in the morning papers of February 17 prompted
a spate of analytical and admonitory editorials.
Dai Ichi Shimbun (Tokyo daily of small circulation) saw a dark
future for democracy in Japan. "The question is," Dai Ichi stated,
"whether it is permissible in a democracy for a few individuals to
insist on their own personal positions. It is undeniable that up to
the present, Premier Yoshida's whims have been obeyed without resist-
ance. This, however, is a matter of serious reflection, for wherever
men respond to a single powerful person the danger of fascism is al-
ready present." This newspaper continued: "The personal good faith
of Premier Yoshida has nothing to do with the issue. What is to be
questioned is the attitude of Yoshida, who is unwilling to listen to
the opinions of the masses. Let us quote here a statement he made to
United Press Manager HOBERECHT: 'Japan is now under occupation. But
the people naturally dislike to do everything under foreign guidance.
I have done all I could to cooperate with SCAP. But, on the other hand,
in enforoing my policies I have always respected the popular psychology."
Dai Ichi commented that Yoshida had taken advantage of popular psychology
to cat er to the people and that this was one of the reasons for his
popularity.
Hochi Shimbun
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 108,
February 18, 1949.
-3-
Hochi Shimbun (Tokyo daily of small circulation connected
with Yomiuri Shimbun) also found Premier Yoshida highhanded. Re-
viewing a declaration of policy made by Yoshida to foreign cor-
respondents, Hochi Shimbun stated that "in perucing the Premier's
statement we cannot fail to note his usual bold, self-righteous
attitude." This newspaper also criticized the alleged plan of
his for transferring national monopolies of railways and tobacco
to private control, as a means of enticing foreign investment, on
the ground that "this problem is of national interest and the
Premier should respect the will of the Diet in some way."
Mainichi regretted the wasting of a week between Yoshida's
designation as Premier and the formation of his cabinet due to
"clumsy" attempts at coalition with the Democratic Party, and
stated that the Cabinet should "settle down to governing." It
stated that the character of the present cabinet would be reflected
in its execution of the nine-point program (United States interim
directive) for economic stabilization which Mainichi stated is
"an imperative decree." This newspaper considered that economic
stabilization has two phases, economy and labor, and recalled
Assistant Secretary of Labor GIBSON's view that labor is the core
of the matter. "The labor problem is just what the conservative
parties, especially the Democratic Liberal Party, find most difficult
to handle," it stated, and recalled Yoshida's "disastrous phrase
:refractory lackeys'" uttered during his first cabinet.
Yomiuri considered it highly significant that "this is the
first powerful administration since the war's end and the first
based on an absolute majority in the Diet." It believed that it
did not "over-state the case when we say that our future depends
upon the outcome of our national effort in the next yar or two."
In that connection, Yomiuri noted that some opinion eus a difference
between the nine-point economic principles enunciated in General
MACARTHUR's letter to Premier Yoshida and the policies of the Demo-
cratic Liberal Party, but considered that "the nine principles
represent a flexible framework" within which "the order of execution
and relative emphasis are in no sense immutable."
Tokyo Shimbun noted that "the keynote of public pledges (by
the Democratic Liberals) is free economy while various emergency
programs directed by the Occupation authorities presuppose stronger
controls." It found that the success of the Yoshida Government
would be its "ability to compromise the differences between the
two programs."
Asahi not ed the apparent strength of the Democratic Liberal
Party
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 1os,
February 18, 1949.
-4-
Party in the Diet, plus the support of the Democratic repre-
sentatives, but feared that intra-party rivalries threaten and
said; "Unless Premier Yoshida consolidates his party as a first
step, the apparently powerful cabinet may prove to be a weak
one." Asahi stated in conclusion: "The thing that the conserva-
tive parties  charged with the task of settling inflation and
establishing a self-supporting economy -- should do is to effect
these con servative policies which the people really want and
carry them out with courage instead of devoting efforts to con-
servative (political) collaboration (maneuvers) alone."
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
631
AHaden hh
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.94)
A. M
2
7世
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Folitical Adviser
fer Jpan
Tekyo, February 25, 1949
No. 122
UICLASSLIED (For Department use only).
Subject: Japen se e paer e  for  ading
February 24, 1949.
 DIVISION OF
LOOTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
17
The Honorable
894.
The Secretary of State.
Washingten.
DEPARTMEM OF STATE
Sir:
6
Rec'd
I have the honor to refer to the Mi sion': despatch ne. 108
Mar 7
of February 18, 1949, tnd to previous deopatele s on the above sub-
ject and to transmit a mummary so Jap nese owspaper reactions to
ACTION
current events for the rek of Fehruary 1e t reugh February 24, 1949.
2
FE
2-2549
INFO
Summary
DCR
0
Principel editorial actention to news cr fo surees re
OLI
volved around discu ision of United States peliey to r. Jaran,
while domestic stories largely centered on the Yoet
drafting of the budget, proposed revisior of Japan' abor vs,
and formation of a co mmittee on un-Japanese  tivitics.
United States roliey tovards Juan
With the re-eaphasio by r idert PRnay  Seeretry of
State Aohmson that Unit ed Stat es poliey cowards Japen is not under
going change, the enot ioual shoe. follomin reperes of the RoYALl
conversation vith certain news nen bere hes en suceeeded by the
expression in the press of tvp idesns pertie lerly. The first of
these is a re-appreciat ion of the benevolence ene con tructive
nature of Ucc upation policies under sericen lesder bip, end the
second is thet Japan shoul Aop relying n others.
The first
UNCLASSIFIED
MAY 4 1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-2
The first of these ideas found exprersion in Mihon feisai:
"We must emphasize that our efforts heretofove have been based
on our deep confidence in the United States and the Occupation
forces. The spiritual and materiel aid n  idance civen us
by the Chited Stat es tad the Deeupation forcen have been trenend-
ous. Though the leftist elenents atteapted to puszle the people
siti the phrase 'racial independouce, the ajority of the pooyhe
have believed ant still believe in tte Und ed state." I ac de
optimist icelly that the majority ef the people "are ot p apleked
by this phre se." tis ous paper co sideree thst the a s
people's belle?   itet states tis based oe the aroast t
the United States ae de i tfen of msking dapn a colony in
petur for r   se  tryneto e  peacef
decoeree, erpoley vl vheag.
e    e f   
n   Pee d Poe ichi Nch.  s of
these een a lered thal Cniied States "retirement froa thina does
not necessarily nean alandomaent of the entire Orient" and based
this view on Anerica interest in this area since Secretary HAY's
pronouncement of the Open Door policy, reinforced by the "dear
price" paid for victory in the Fecifie during the past war. "There-
fore," Jiji Shimpo conchnded, "it is inconcei vable that the Unitci
States will retire fron both China und Japan at the sa ne ti ie, re-
linquishing her age-long fundammtel poliey." This newspeper con-
tinucd: "It is proper thut the Japanese ho.l? stop reiying ee much
on United States aid and endeavor to allain self-suf icieney instee:
of bei urprised by lhe runor of evacuation of t  fo.
Expressint is rati tude to President Trume for "spikins  eve us-
tion runor," it con sidered that "democratization o? tin 
its reconat ructio as a peace-loving nation vll be a only 1
Heavors based on conf dence in the Uail ed tates." Discuesing the
same gen eral idee, Hichi Michi, chiding the Japanese pople bese
they "sonehor regard the econonic stabilisation pregran as sem body
else's business," call ed this ettitude "a grievous m ite" ene added
"hether we are being wat chet or mot, th pregran ds a ajer opere io.
without which Japn car et recover. Hothing car so upset life ore
thoroughly than to be governed by w ether t orld is wat ching or ot."
In the cane gereral vein, sahi found that "the Japanese people
should stop depending on th nilitary forces of foreige po vere for
their national security" and stated that "it is i perative for the
Japanese people to aaintai: a pacifistic stand to the very end."
Asahi continued its careful coverage of the discussion of United
States policy by front-paginy a signed story of Lindesay A?noT,
correspondent of the New York Times, analyzing the teaning of the
statements attributed to S cretury of th Anay Royall.
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.97)
5
Tokyo's Despatch No. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-3-
Labor Laws Revision
Broad news play was tiven to the press conference in Washington
on February 17 o Assistant Secretary of Lator John W. GIBSos, but
editorial co ment has been reserved for moves in the Japanese Diet
looking to anendnent of present laber laws. ditorials have gener Ly
noted the opposition of organized labor to any revision. The com-
munist organ, Acahata, opposed the whole procedure, deseribing it
with the usual cormunist expletives including "reaetionary" and "merep
olistic." Hochi Shimbun (connected with Yomiuri cnd unually cunserva-
tive) deprecated the drafting of the original proposals or auendrtent
by the Central Laber Comittee as "a blunder," but felt that it was
wrong to cell the tentat ive plan "reactionery." Pul lie hearings 
the proposed amendments are how being held by the ab r inistry a
most newspapers are withholding coitent, presumably t hacertain the
general tone of opinions expressed at these hearings.
Budget Drafting
Executive and legislative moves in the drafting of the 1949-
1950 national budget have been carefully followed by the Japanese
press, which has enphasized its importance to the thole Japanese
economy. Comment has been marked by an analytical nd generally
helpful critical approach, and has pointed out the interrelation of
the price structure, the taxation schedules, and the lack larket
profits which at present escape control and taxation.
In an early editorial, Yomiuri urged the Yoshiia cubinet to
define carefully for the people the principles it foliows in drafting
the budget. It atated that "taxes for thia year have already exceele
the tax-paying capacity of the people" and demanded it the Govern.
ment seize black market profits. In a later editer, it called on
the people to scrut inize the budget carefully and ske their vievs
known through their representatives in the Diet. Yomiuri con idered
that there are four main problens and various suberdinate ones in-
fluencing the Yoshida cabinet's budget drafting: (1) possibl- revision
of the price structure and increase in railway rates, the expected
railway operating deficit being estimated by di" erent pereuns at
between fifty and 100 billion yen for the fiscal yuur, (2) cutting of
government payrolls, which it celled "adninistrative adgustments";
(3) what to do about various subsidies which it called "a scourge of
Japan's finance"; (4) the estimation of revenues including new sources
if the "transactions tax" is abolished.
Mainichi called t is budget "the first test of the Yoshida
cabinet's ability to execute the nine economic principles" for economic
stabilization. It warned against hasty abolition of the "transact ons
tax" — though pproving the Liberal Democratic Party's efforts to
fulfill its campaign promises in this regard -- and the ubstitution
of this
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-
of this "undesirable" lax by arother iesi'" 
considered thst tne reopening of restaw inte  : ivisabe  that
"the incone flowirg into the blucx rret can e assessed fairiy."
Asahi considerd tt if taxes cannot  incre e, p es uld
be cut, and advised the latter. In a i  er t ial Asahi varned
against an "easygoing" price poliey. it po t ed  t,
single exchange rate be so at tetween 330 v' 350 en t t li,
presen! prices of iports figured a l yenier 
increase 250, d 150 billien y1  i 1 trle 
would be ent as iort eu sidies It atd  t  fu..
in the trade account "are eid fn.ri y it.
Government" snd that "it woui'e cont rarye
import cu  ie." It counselea nt "rerpov, 
easygoing eppro-ch to rsvii
Un-Jananese etiviti Invesi
Editoriel oo nt on the fo  Gov roont  no  
tion to establish a ccittee for the invest i ti uoup r
activities hus lrawn obgervat:on "ron three o  ller netro
politan Tokyo papers. Tokyo Times (connected witl: sai) stated:
"Admitting that the co unittee will serve to ruct ify cce:sive acts
on the part of ultra-lefti:te, t. tre are possihill. in. i 
also allow the ultrarightists t revive." It  ti i
allowdng con ervatives to con ider this co itl  a turn he
old system" ari si at ed: "In rinciple, we veiee eut
of the un-Japanese activities con i tes. It is it.snr.
that it be set up to funetion just ly nd that it  tr it the
extraue right and the extrume left so thtl
being reactionary." Dai Yei i n (en
that Japen would not handle such a co nitt ee a  United t
it pointed out that in the United Srates hahit
thought, and political et ivities were st enditi
investigating un-Americar ctivities, but th
bud" since there re sti Japan "lesppreetel 
semi-feudalistic tende cies,I rea ratie m
nationalistic ideologles." It feared th "
does not try the direct suppression f 
specific tdeoloyit io
conmittee dll prove eet the 
it self." Sekai kKeizai's rincipal ruront  eny urhitt
inveetigating un-Jarneso tivities  be itn
not under the control of he Itorney  ral cs or inally roperted.
"It should
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-5-
"It should not be established es an i rini strative organ,"
this hevspaper st ated. "It shouli re created within the Diel
and mode up of representat ives whe vere selected ly the natie.
We think it rat onel to have such  vmittee make inve  iga' lons
and impeachments and to entrust t'e final decision to the gu dian
of he Constitution -- the Suprene ourt."
Respectfuily yours,
For he Acting relitical Adviser.
Clcyce K. Huston
Counselor of Kission
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
631
AHaden:hh
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.95)
THE POREIGN SERVIGE
OF THE
UNNTED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Folitical Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 25, 1949
No. 122
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use cly).
Subject: Japen se e par e: Sor e. Ending
February 24, 1949.
DIVISION OF
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MAR 1 1 1949
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
Roo'd
I have the honor to refer to t'e i:si n': despatch no. 108
Mar 7
of February 10, 1949, ta to proviou: le patalt  on the above sub-
ject and to tr nmaut a summary f Jap nere  vspaper reactiens to
ACTION
current events for the e. o Ferrtary 1 1 reugh February 24, 1949.
FE
INFO
Summary
DCR
0
Frincipel editorial a tention to n f sources r
OLI
volved around discu ision of United States pel.ey towarl. Japan,
while domestic stories largely contered  the Y. et
drafting of the budget, propo ser re isio or Japan' labor aws,
and form tion of a com ittee on un-Jasetiviti.
United States olicy tovards Ja
With the re-emphasin by r tert TRinay  Seerotary of
State ACiEson that Unit ed States policy owarde Japer is not under
going change, he enot iol shoc. follo in re orts of the RoYALL
conversation vith certain news ne. here  en uceceded by the
expression in the press of tin ides rtin lorly. The first of
these is a re-appreciation of the berevolence ne con tructive
nature of Occupation policies un'er Asericor Le-der ip, and the
second is that Japan shoul tor rely ing  othurs.
The first
UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional fles or othe

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo' Despatch No. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-2
The first of these ideas found exprression in Nihon reizai:
"We must emphasize that our efforts heretofore have been based
on our deep confidence in the United States and the Occupation
forces. The spiritual and material aid and aidance given us
by the United Sta: es and the Jccupation forces have been tremend-
ous. Though the leftist elenents attenpted to puzzle the ople
wit! the phrase 'racial in lependence, the majority of the people
have believed an till beliuve in the United Staie." I addel
optimist icelly tiat t! majority of the people "are not -r lexed
by this phre se." Tis  is aper co sidered that the Jap  se
people's beiitf  itet states "is based n the roan? that
the United States  o i tis of raking Japin a colony in
returm for her a, ta she is tryine to male  a peacef
decocracr polleyviiler hel."
The ciit bout dap use uif-relianee found its tos cego
pression Ln uiji Shinpe und Toikyo Michi Nich. The first of
these con d 'cred that United States "retirenent from China dous
not nccessarily leal al anloruent of the entire Orient" and based
this view on nerica interest in this area since Secretary HAY's
pronouncement of the Open Door policy, reinforced by the "dear
price" paid for victorg in the Fecific durin the past war. "There
fore," Jiji Shimpo conciuded, "it is inconceivalle that the Un:ted
States will retire fro hoth China i Japan at the sane ti ie, re-
linquishing her ae-long fundanntai policy." This lewspe er con-
tinued: "It is proper thut the Jaranuse s.ol' stop rstying teo much
on United States aid an enleaver to at lain self-suf lciency instead
o? beirg urprised ly he rnor of evacuatior of hiter Stat forces."
Expressing its rati tude to resident Truma: for "spiking te evucua-
tion rwnor," i! con idered that "democratization otin 
its recon it ructio: as a eace-loving natios will be atI only 1
Heavors based un conf dence in the Ui ed lates." Di cu sing the
same general idea, Nichi ichi, chiding the Japnese popit tese
they "someho/ regard the econonic stahilizatior pregran as som body
else's business," called t is attitude "a grievous mi ae" anc added:
"hether we are  eing wat chet or ot, the program is a major operat ion
without which Japin car. ot recover. Nothing can so upset life ore
thoroughly than to be governed by whether the orld is wat ching or not."
In the sane gereral vein, sali found that "the Japanese people
should stop depending on th: nilitary forces of foreign povers fer
their national security" and stated that "it is i perative for the
Japanese people to aaintain a pacifistic stand to the very end."
Asahi continued its careful coverage of the discussion of United
States policy by front-pagiu, a signed story of Lindesay rAc"T,
correspondent of the New York Times, analyzing the neaning of the
statements attributed to S: cretary of th Anmy Royall.
Labor Laws
UNCLASSIFTED
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional fles or other
diaposition in accordanemit

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 122,
February 25, 1949.
-3-
Labor Laws Revision
Broad s play a ives to tin press conference in VWashington
on February 17 o As i  ant Secretary of Labor John W. GIBSoN, but
editorial co ment s teen reserves fer moves in the Japanese Diet
looking to wiendment f present laber 1-ws. ditorials have gener lly
noted the oppositien of orgarizel  ster to any revision. The com
munist organ, A ahats, erpesed the wnle procedure, deseritine it
with the usual c munist expletives including "reactionary" and "meoep
clistic." dochi Shimuhun (connerted with Yasiuri nl usually conserva-
tive) deprecatel tht rafting  the criginal proposals for amen
ty the Central Later Cow itt et a "a blunder," tut felt tnt it wis
wrong to ll the t ntat ive paan "reacti nery." Ts lie hearings 
the proposed wacailents are ow leina held by the Lat r Hinistry an?
nost wexspapers are withholding co ment, presumatly t
scert in the
general tone of opinions expressed at those hearings.
Budget Drafting
Executive and legislative moves in the drafting of the 1949-
1950 national budget have been carefully followed by the Japanese
press, which has emphasized its importance to the t.ole Japanese
economy. Co ment has been marked by an analyticl nd ererailly
helpful critical approach, nd has pointed ost the interrelation of
the price structure, the taxation schedules, and th- Ilack mariet
profits which at present oscape control and taxation.
In an early editorial, Yomiuri urged the Yoshila cabinet to
define carefully fer the people the principles it follows in draftin
the budget. It stated that "taxes for this jear nave already exceele
the tax-paying capac ity o te people" and dcmanded t the Govern
ment seize black mar.et profits. In a later e literia, it called on
the people to scrut inize the luibet cr: fully and  ke their views
known through their re, esentatives in the Diet. Yowiur cen :i dered
that there are four min probluns d various sube dinate unes in.
fluencing the Yoshida cabinet's budget drafting: (1) possible revision
of the price structure and increase in railvay rates, the expected
railway operating deficit being estimated by dit nat
between fifty and l00 lillion yen for the fiscal yr, (2) cuttine of
government payrolls, hich it celled "ad inistretive adjustments",
(3) what to do about various subsidics wiich it ca led "a scourge of
Japan's finance"; (4) the estimation of revenues includin; new urc.
if the "transactions tax" is aboliched.
Mainichi called ti.is  dget "the irst test of the Yosiida
cabinet's ability to execute the nine economic principles" for ecor..
stabilization. It arned against hasty abolition of the "transact'.
tax" - though arproving the Liberal Denocratic Party's efforts to
fulfill its campaign promdses in ttis regard - and the utstitution
of tis
UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other
disposition in accordes

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.82)
Tokyo's Despat ch No. 122,
Fébruary 25, 1949.
of this "undeeirate"  r" It 
considered  te ne of r 
"the incore flowig into te 11 s rret can  e aseessed fairiy."
Asahi consider d t f taxes : t orei. pes sould
be ut,  vise th
againet an "easooine" pre polie. t  
single l nrt
presen! prieesof ports fieet 
increase 250, 11
woult be rat a iwort
in he trade aout "e 
Govern ent"
imprtIt
easygoingpprt
U
ditoriint t. i
tion to eahlih a't r
Lctivities iraan ost
wl l) sl stel
politan Tokyo pper. To Time n
"Admitting tt
on the part of ultra-lefti .i
also allow the ultra rigit s t. vi
allovdng con ervativester tha
old ysten"   sled. "inr
o the unJaj a etivitieto
that it be t up t furtn ti
extreme rigt h
being retiony." D
that Jupen would not n mdhe ch a
it eint uut tt  t brit
thouglt, md poli i  1
investigating un erti
to fear that the coutt whll
bud" inee hor r tJ
somi-feuelistic te.it
nationalistic ideclo i."it for
does not try the direct
specific tde lo
co.mnittee dll prove
21.5
it self." Sekai seizei's
invest igating un-Jar  i
not under the contrel 
UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divislemel
disposition in

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.80)
Tokyo's De-pet.. 122,
February 25, 1949.
"It olrott
and nee p of
We  it r
1a175
and i ur vr
11an
0 Cns.
Copy to American ,
London.
631
Alia ler th
UNCLASSIFIED
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisleal 
disposition in ac

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.91)
DC/G
7e
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
4
vi er
fe Jeva
Pote, ret 1, 1949
No. 135
UNCLASSIFID (For Deoortrert use r)
Subject: Japanese Hewspaper Reactiors for the indins Mavch 3,
Rec'd
Mar 9
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
ACTICN
Wasl ingtor.
894.
FE
INFO
Sir:
DCR
6
0
OLI
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's a nteh lo. 12 of
February 25, 1949 and to orevious sespatches en t above su ject and
to transmit a summary of Japanese newsnaper react ns to current
3-449
events for the week of February 26 through Yarch  191.9.
Summary
the roanese
Except for the last day of the neriod unter re
press has devoted its attention prircinally to bu'ftine and
its ramified effects on the Japanese econey. On  e ?, Po yo
newspapers gave major nowsolay to the interviey of  sla journelist
Ward Price with General Lacarthur, and to the stor  areant
Barashkov, an escaned Russian flier so r Jn.
Budret Drafting and icono ic P
uditorial coment en buet stias br y pt
tive of former positions, hut ras tere staated sreis, a oted in
the 1ission's despatch no. l22 of vebruary 25, 1919 pare 2), that
the prens evaluates the budget net s an inieverient action of
government but as a reflectior of the n tion's econc y. The udget's
intimate connection with the ccono ic stalsis tion rorran has
been widely noted and the two ioesse alrost xricably.
n examination of what verious son rs ensider  first i nor-
tance in the budget's formula ior pro ents  res' aonrecintion
of the sulject.
Confidentiol HHR
sahi
UNCI ASSIFI D
MAR
FILED
241949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 135,
March 4, 1949
-2
Asahi considered thal rices are "firs.
17
stated:
"The economic statilizati .
comprehonsive and many-sided. It 
conflicting elements for executicr nd su 
overall economic shekeun. Fowever, ti. c
problem is almost definite.
"The first point of ou ri.
here is  hether the orice leve neu! '
readjusted reasonably. or some rr
in order to maint in the ret ve. 
tion of an otlerwise endless ri it
case it seems certaln thet i. .
suffer. The former seeus rearle bt 
inflation and thereby loner
living. The latter will cause a cedtcticn r
of enterorises and dismissal of vorkers."
Jiji Shimpo considered that there are tuo
stated: "The problen of the tudt for the 
drawn the special attention of the people n r
One is the method of achieviny the palanse of i
in the nine cconomic orinciples, :nd the other 
those policies promised by the Jomee atic Tibe..
in the budget. Reportedly, it is Jikely trat i
expenditures in the general account dll rot 
yon, although the final plan is yer to be deci
between the government and frie.dly wartius."
Jiji Shimpo plwmped for the sale of the Governmr.t
ite monopoly in conmunications, to private i.
Lainichi conaddered that vayrell cut car "1
"Administrative reform has become the most. i
Yoshida cabinet. To date, the center of it.
tion of cutting dowm noverrment personel.
meeting on February 25 admintstrative f
reorganization of the administrative srture
connel. In addition the deadlins for rfme
was met for June l: Administrative reform is t.
Yoshida cabinet and by ite success or faiire 
able to judge the ability of tre Catint t cur
economic stabilization program. li otherv rd
Yoshida Jabinet hanss unon th: experiunt."
Sekai Keizai considered the prie esserti
and commented:
UNCLASSIFID

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 135,
March 4, 1949
-0-
"We must overcome a nuber sf contradi   u luins
to implement the nine-point ecouomiaci z r. Uneasiness
and agitation are expected to ari se lne  feei ine itanle
distribution of the sacrifices involvec. l t reroi: vphasize the
need to give the nation a sense of stab lity first of aii." Sekal
Keizai argued that "if the goverument ave the nalion . feeling
that the sacrifices are to borne soleiy on th sho l ders of the
masses, the nine economic principles will be construd as beneficia?
only to the Yoshida group and no one can warantee that suh a stat
of affairs will not result in furip   st arty  
tion for attacking the governmer." n.a rewsoaper niades 
scrupulous program whereby a strong  f ti
nation."
Yomiuri demanded that the putie  nds t
cratic Liberal Party be carric ut a.  th eee iis 
ty the Occupation policy fno  
pretext for non-fulfiliment. It int  h he
Stabilization Program was announced by the Occnpaticn harre t
elections and warned that "fulfillment iut li Id is the
keystone of party politics."
Nihon Keizai advanced the view that a " olnosl! e" ao roach
required. "To attach greater importance to stahili?ation than L
rehabilitation means to strive for stabilization even by retardins
Increased production," Nihon Keizai stated. "To give rricrity to
rehabilitation means to endeavor to promote industria? troduction
even if inflation is accelerated to some degree. In the monetery
policy for instance, if the importance is attached to t: liz
a stringent money policy wili be adonted, even if il pro
tion is somewhat retarded by financial difficu ty. Ifr-ased
production is the first consideration, an ea y-money will
carried out even if there is canger that  flaton y  t.
So long as the basic policy is nct eciied, rai 
execution of the program cannot he rea rzed e tre  f the
program conflict with each other. By so sayin, 
either stabilization or rehabilitation may be lt . 
an extrome policy cannot be carrid ut prrtical
how much woight is to be attached to wh ch af the t i is ti
or rohabilitation."
Thi nowspaper concluded: "ie wei tht to at a
stabilization and rehabilitation should he cocivin
consideration to these questionste what exi ent will   rion
dwindle; what degree of decline in proiuction s permia s, a
how much United States ail can be espestec to cf set the iecin.
Thus a uniform and composite policy sloula be es ac: sl for
tranalating the program into action. Without a comp it
the nine-point economic program cmne: be executed fivey d
consistently."
Warj
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 135,
March 4, 1949
Ward Price Interview with General MacArthur
Only one editorial had time to appear curing the sericd uncur
review on the sensational report by the Britien journalist G. Ward
Price of his interview with General Douglas Yacirthur, It aooeared
in Mainichi, which is the prineipal client of the Uhited Press, the
agency which distributed the Price story.
Mainichi backed into the topic by first recalling that Japan at
one time tried to imitate Creat Britain und construet an island empi
"unaware that imperialism was already waning to sive place to a new
order". It then recalled that Japan hud tried te imitate Ttaly and
Germey whereupon, according to Mainichi, "the Jaranese peonle learned
the foolishness of aping, for the first time." This newsoaper siied
significantly: "Today no Japanese aspires to imitate the Amerie ns
or the Russians. The defeated Japanese learred to knev thoms-Ives
and their limited capabilities. A part of th- Japanese intelligentsia
gradually began to picture in their minds the small and peaceful
country of Switzerland."
This newspaper quoted General MacArthur's comoarison of Japan
to Switzerland and stated: "This is the first time that a resnonsible
Allied authority as spoken on the future status of Janan in conorete
terms."
Mainichi recognized two trends of thought among the Jananese:
one represented by the opportunists planning to join the stronger in
case of war with a view to regaining lost territories. "Thess people
must have been disappointed by General MacArthur's present tatement,"
it said. "The other thought was re oresented by those whe ned on
leaving everything to the United States in the event of v hey
themselves remaining spectators. These people must be reninded of
the real significance of neutrality and the responsibility it invelves."
Mainichi compared the difficulties encountered by Portuval, Spai,
Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland and Switzerland in tryins vo renann
neutral and conduded: "In order that we may maintain neutrality for
a long period to come, it is necessary that each member of the nation
sincerely resolve to defond peace and refrain from all seltish ambi-
tions. We must remember that only our own firm determination will
entitle us to the rivileges of neutrality."
Respectfully yours,
FOR TIE ACTING POLTTICAL ADVIER:
Cloyge K. Fustor
Counselor of ission
631
AHaden:vw
Copy to American Embassy,
Lond on
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.84)
THE PORdDO 
UNITED STATS OF AMBRIGA
Unit sd States Tolitical Advied
for Japan
1949.
actn regunie
Wey 10, ira9
REC'D
MAY 6
mral acArthur.
ACTION
FE
INBO
DCR
OLI
T1.
POS
EUR
lrvlo
Hard
ten in th
 comment
nh
874.9111/3.449
apor epcurity
JADAN
lefend
he Pasif
Iene "rome
ty the
m1 1.1r
2119
11
After
MAY 16 10
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO D0/R PILES WITZIN 14 DAYS. WITE A WOTATLON

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.86)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 137,
March 8, 1949.
-2
After reviewing the principal points made by General MeoArthur
this newspaper concluded:
"With such assurances bacied by he weight of the authority of
Generel MacArthur, the Japanese should be able to feel confi-
dent that they dii not make a mistake when they committed them
selves to permanent. nontelligereney and the democratic way of
life. They should he able te fuel that they are not exposing
themseives to unreasorabl dangers when they devote thedr un-
divaded attention to the ta: of huilling up a peaceful nation."
The two major nferen m iram y the vornacular Japanese press
from the peints ma le by General MacArthur vere that Japan's neutrality
must be backed by  strong "self-sufficlet" sconomy and that the
people must bo doologi ally conditioned ag inat war. Asahi made both
these point. in a Long litorasl di us Jn I Ward Price interviews
"Japan cn mint ain nout maiity onty whm. sis baa become inde
pendent nt lr. rfirlent. United tat offorte to make
Japalese veoouy r- ufriciun must be tnterpreted as a
prorequiaite to nout r y n So. in order to meet thio
Intention ar : huttd s tos we wust try to atand on our own
leet
"Recont ly, alae ppalt,1 tn plit tol aad egonomie, hao
become are d ore ori Tots pposttten threatene to
divide he atate  tp eli difrerent ideelegiee.
It ia even forel tha o cp sttton may dovelop to sueh 
peint that domestte o r for for neut ral ity wail erwable.
Unlee tht  p ilion pcerly ttle n threat ened
gal hat roplhe preolel.  very unfort unate ant di.eatroue aitua
tien wlil deveup foe  dopone o tmmmelvea, Only df all the
Japanese ore vili tng t are the fate of the nat lon and vigoroue
ly promote 1. sanne  a nout relity un il jnteriat ianal neutrality
be easueed. tt pat be emeah red th at  he palabllaliment of the
triaity ? poltic dependenre, esonoeta self-suffieieney and
the people'a mental peltlapity le a majer preregulalte Ser a
deelarat lon of nent rality by the Japanese themselves."
In a further eumment on tie sann tapie, Asaht warnedi
"Ve slhoutd not be casily maved tg I he murda e? foretgnere, Al-
though the fut ure of Ja an will he Heoided partly ty the will
of the Ailtet farres, tlie will af th- Japanese themgelves le
most import,ant.
"We muat
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.82)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 137,
March.8, 1949.
-3-
"We must not assume the attitude of onlookers even though the
General (lHacArthur) gave us his pledge (that Japan would be
defended in case of attac . Neutrality will be neither a
sift from Heaven nor an iport fron abroad. It is ven more
out of the question to  rhor  secret desire for revision of
the peace prmvision, o the Constitution."
Tokye Shimrun s plained Jepen's prusent plight in terms of the
abandonment of a treditional poliey. "Tempted by her gains in the
first orl ar," s, "pan o her neutral position
and joined ti xis pan  tragedy y be attributed to thi.
The firat Puctor in shukine tih neutral po t on of a nat lon is
speculation by er t unen or the pi. If Japan Lacke a firm
determinatio iha te put o ill he unablo to main
tain true noutrljly."
dit ril   r u in Yomlur but 
Lons dr d with Your
dincu used Switaurlrd  dirriculti   lescon and uxampl
for tho e lrthur' vie that
Japan oe   r heir.  tated:
inin11nwll
ther
nin
werilptedymeed.
med
invor
e
reneuneear  thepere e tel r wr How
eve or  e e  s ae f   utlert
reanlnrleer ror a digarnal  at ln to repurllels war. On the
other hanl to wmli ere  a eIle  take 
arme to hetp the Slet tuin. e  tat clltion I far
Irom at 1:rartory."
Jtating tust I "hrartlly agreel with Generel egarthur he
dosire that Japan lesme the witperlanl  the lautrie," Hacht
Shimbun warned tat open unt ts "firmts prepared to realst all
noxloue forces at lone or pbroad."
Niulu Nichi
UNCLAS3IFIED

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
akyo's Despatch No. 137,
March 8, 1949.
Nichi Nichi (connected with Mainichi) in its comment on t
Ward Price reportage made the two points that Japan must reconsurugt
and be self-reliant. It stated:
"General MacArthur has made a wise statement in our interest.
As a matter of fact, no nation, least of all the Soviet Union,
has the intention of invading Japan at present. The Japanose
should not worry about this phase of the matter but should
strive in cther fields to the best of their ability.
"First, the Japanese should exert the greatest possible efforts
for their livelihood and reconstruction without United States
aid at the earliest opportunity.
"Second, they should abandon the ridiculous idea that whether
Japan will become democratic or communist is to be decided by
the relative atrength of the United States and the U.S.S.R.
The Japanese themselves should be responsible for the politioal
destiny of Japan. This is a very important matter. If they
hate to he communist-controlled, the taak of checking communim
should ho achiuved with their own hands without leaning on
Unitod Stutes aid."
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Advisers
Cloyee K. Husten
Ceunseler of Missien
Enclosure:
Capy of artlcle in
Niunen Timen, Mareh 3,
1949 by G. Ward Priee,
"Amerioa Wanta Japan to
be Neutral in War,
MaoArthur eelares."
631
AHaden:hh
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 137
dated March 8, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser
UNCLASSIFIED
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Mr. Wad Price's Interview with
General MacArthur".
COPY
AMERICA WANTS JAPAN TO BE NEUTRAL
IN WAR, MACARTHUR DECLARES
By G. Ward Price, London Daily Mail Correspondent
(Nippon Times, Tokyo, Thursd y, March 3, 1949)
If Nippon is sttacked by Soviet rmy, "We should defend
her," he suys.
Gen. Jougl s Mac rthur toli me th:t if Russia attacks
Jupan "we shoul! cort inly defend her."
But, he alded, he lid not believe Russia would uttsck
Jupan.
In a long interview nt his he dju rtere, the Suprome
Allied Comm nder in the Far Last dleousced cundidly Jupen's
place in the Anglo- merie n atr tecy in the Pacific.
In cose of unother wor "we lo not  nt Jupan to firht."
he stid.
"Japan's role te to be  Switaerlana of the Pucicic."
Gener 1 Nue rttur enpl ined
"But suppouins phe were att ekod?" I oaked.
"In that oose," the Genersl ooia, "we chould cert inly
defend ber."
"But," he said, "I lo not believe Russi: will  ttaok
Japen. Even if the Joviet Government h a arereseive inten-
tions towerd Japen. Russi woula be ine p ble of carrying
them out unless che coul seaure m stery of  ir  nd elther
had a Far Eaatern fleet of her own or poesessel the meahs
of neutralizing eny votion by our fleet."
General hacarthur said: "Russis could not obtein  ir
prodominonce.
"On Okinawo I had constructed at the end of the war 20
airfields with e cupacity to dispatch B-sp'a - then our
lurgeet bombers - on ,50o missions per doy."
The whole of Eastern Asia from Singapore to Vladivostok,
in Russian Siberiu, would lie within the range of those
machines.
When
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 137,
March 8, 1949.
-2-
When I asked him the function of Japan in the American
strategy of defense, General MacArthur said: "We never
intended the use of Japan as an ally. ll we want her
to do is to remain neutral. We are helping her to become
self-supporting because thet will relieve us of the burden
of supplyins her. I believe that in three or four years
she will be ble to feed herself either by native produc-
tion or by puying for imported food with her exports."
General Maearthur s: ia he wus confident Anglo-
Saxon intercsts in the Pucifie Were entirely secure,
despite the recent Connunist victories in China, and said
that he wus not worried bout the Conmunist gains in the
recent Japanese ulectiono.
Te said he  is not tink the Jepanese Communists had
any ireet link  ith oscow.
But ar sai phe strutegy of the Tnited states had
been completely trunsformel by the wer.
He suid: "our dufonsive dinpositions  gainst sietio
ageression used to b y se on the Wost doset of the
Americun Continont Tho Puctrlo vas looted upon as an
avenue of poor ible pnery  ppreuch Now the Pecirio has
become on nglo- xon lake na our line of defenee runs
throuch the oh in o tal frigtn the co st of pia.
It st rte free te Phtlirrtroe nl sontioree through tho
Ryukyu  rohipl o teh iueludesa itr in bastion
okinowe hen it bona e't  rouh Japun nd the leue
tion Tulend Jhain to lock.
"Though the  vomee of the Red oppiee in dhin pleees
them on the flonh of ir t noettton, thts oee not  lter
the foet lur t our only posr lble caveruary on the  sietie
Continent doee not poseece inlustri-l boses necr enough
to supply n mphibione ettockin erce."
The wor Inanstries in ussi:, Senerel Neuarthur seid,
are in the region of the Urel mounteins, from where their
output of weupone on? unitions "I believe . vculd
have to be houled over 4.ooo mlles, meinly by cin lee
truck railrosd, to Vladivostok."
Regarding the sugsention that Japan should be sllowed
to r ise a "home defense army", the Jupreme Com nder said
"that is a premsture proposal  He sald:
"It ia a m tter that couli be deoided only when the
peace treuty with Jupan hus been drefted. Untll then the
Army of Occup tion vill reme in thore, not to hold lown
Jupan - thut is un cessary - but owing to the unfortunate
split
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.80)
Enolosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No. 137,
Maroh 8, 1949.
split between the powers that were cllies during the
war."
General Macarthur suid that, if Japan wore attaoked
it wouli be easy to r ise un ruy "to cooperate with us."
He added, "the Japcnece  re  hcut the stubbornest infantry
soldiers in the : orld."
I mentioned the uc estion ro do in Russien quarters
that the increuse 1n tle J runcse polico system General
Mecarthur wI lo in to t rI o wau tantamount to
the cre tion orl e forfurre J: penese .
Generel rtlur   l
"lore re l,oo or  te  st lo ginnly to
preservo ntl e o per ent
evenylol"!
The e  osiu
 dun lo .i  by Jounle
memboro lu e  2 yror rour to 
Pe   rlo ovorl
theirlt ty
ny."I 
rou orror  n 1
merlou or re rlt in
he pon vo arlty
1n mak1n. te 1vy 1
the people re r ra
"The 1 n rof  11 tr mrferret the proper
ties or lon lord:  t 1 Iven ny ore beetle
a etke in e ntr he er1
"Lebnr unel lo be t len l sarlaitel Lele," be
uld."eo were oulyuple ar Juure lheeg or
sturvellone  ve T he Jer nee orkere tr de
uniono. 1 li-lour , he rllt to ollealive hr
guinin n oller lv l . I fully xpeot th eee 
labor purty vome Into elutenoe in Jaran "
with muol capes lence in lntervlewin.  ny or the
world u most pronlnent rercrm llllre, I lirve cot lom found
one whone converet lon v so oprelensive'het or
Genorul imaortlur. It I led over tle ti te y or th
last wur in uropu  n! the orinn lovernment' polioy
in China witlh u rom.rk ble voo. bul: ry nd coloe phraes.
"HOW
UNCL SSIFIED

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 137,
March ε, 1949.
-4-
"How is  that you have no trouble with the Russians
wherees they inserfere so much with the Allied occupetion
forces in Germany?" he asked.
"Perheps becuuse the Russien mentelity is us Oriental
as it was in the deys of Genghis Khan," General Lac rthur
said
"and  ve i so years' experience dealing with
UNCL..JJIFIED

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.87)
THE FOREN EE
OFTHE
UNITED STATES OP AMRIA
Unitel Sta  felitical Atvi
DIVISION OF
NORTHAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
reh 11, 2949.
No. 4
MAY 12 1949
ns actin regani)
UNS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Naledan
1. I
iuto of Action 2-15.49
RECEIVE
iction office s
The rl
MAY 6
894.9
lih
:roution to D
ACTICN
94.1/3.444
FE
INFO
DCR
nc.
POS
paper
OLI
through
EUR
649
Suarary
C
FILED
0 1549
0
ACTION:TCOPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF AOTEON TAK.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 145,
March.11,. 1949.
3
the Liberal Denocratic majority in the Diet, to his realisation
of the weakness of the middle-of-the road political position.
Yomiuri considered that since "political changes (in Japan)
have traditionally brought about switches from one party to
another," Fresident Inukai could have joined the Deaceratic
Liberal Farty but should not have +ried to pull the whole party
with him. Yomiuri stated in this conrection:
fact that President Inukai of the Denocratic Party,
h mairtained midile-cf-the-road politics and which
cpposed the Democratic Liberai Farty, accepted Premier
YOSHIDA's invitation was inevitable in view of the situa-
tion at that time. Accordingly, since President Irukai
expressed such an intent ion, he ougit voluntarily to have
participated in the Yoshida cabinet and joined the Damo-
cratic Liberal Farty with his followers. If he had realized
the unreasonableness of the niddle-of-the-road policy and
acted this way, the people might even have tolerated this
grave error. But whether he appraised too highly his n-
fluence as president or placed toc much confidence in his
statesmenship, President Inukai did not c  he Yoshide
cabinet. He attemptei to lead the Denoora , ncluding its
opposition group, to a conservative coalitic. Thus he hes
committed another great mistac and caused severe trouble
between the two factions dthin his party."
Mainichi con sidered that Inutai's attempt to resoup his
position Led him into "duping the people." It stated:
"As a result of the last general electlon, the Democratic
Liberal Party succeeded in obtaining a majority. For this
reascn it should naturally have set up & single-party cabinet.
In fact, the whole nation expected it to do so. However, in
consequence of the filfillment of a secret agreement of a
feudelistic nature or sna king of aristocratic tastes, an
irlcomprehensible ccalition cabinet was formed. The Yoshida
c.binet, frcn the. very cutset, tcck on a great liability.
There was no ltemative iut to believe thst the actions of
President In xai and his gr up were based on the premise of
a m-ger with the Denocratic Liberal Party, out of a desire
to  seape the woe of a middlo-road political party. During
the general elect on, the Democrat. and the DLP fought each
other as enemies. If uch a cante had not occurred, there
wotl not have been anything illogical in a coalition between
the two parties from the stanipoint of uniting the conservative
front. However, before doing se, tihey should have placed the
issue once again befere tite nat on for djudication. Not doing
so, it simply means they are duping the people."
Yomiuri
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 145,
March 11, 1949.
+3-
Yomiuri adduced as a subordinate influence on the Inukai
group among the Democrats the desire for power. Tokyo Shimbun
concurred, though con sidering the Denoerats' "political interests"
as the major motivation. Yomiuri stated that "pc'itical parties
in Japan, while seemingly giving utmost att entier o their policies
and platforms, are virtually mere factions strugg ing for power."
Tokyo Shimbun stated its views more harshly.
"Needless to say, Japanese pelitical parties are still 'unions
for the acquisition cf polit icel int eres s.' Even the Socielist
Party still carries the sears of past wounds which it re-
ceived while maneuvering for politieel power. However, spurred
on by their consciences, earnest rembers of political parties
have begun to seck the spirit of independence."
Melotoy's Replacenent br Vishinsty
Editorials in Asahi, Mainichi, Jiji Shimpo md Mmuari n
the replacement of Holotoy by Vishinsky as Soviet or gn ne
usually straddl ed the phestn ef vhet this chnge nishe m.
All but Jiji Shimpe eaphasized that Seviet peliey is impersonal
and unlikely to be modified much one y or the ot r by the change.
Asahi went so far as to coneede, however, that "it s definitely
known that personuel changes have et infrepentlj. provided signi-
ficant turning points for poviet diplonacy in the past."
Respectfully yours,
Fer the Acting Political Advi sers
oleneilttumlno
Cloyde E. Huston
Counselor of Yission
Parchment Mat to the Depariment.
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
631
AHaden:hh
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.84)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Office of the "nit d States "olitica) idvisec
for oar
NOF
No. 167
noaction
Cireulated
1012
oyR.
SUJ:
T OF STATE
jile
119
REC'D
N OF
APR. 4
CTION
FE
INFC
DCR
894.91
OL1
S1r.
POS
ITF
15
OFD
of Fare ,
C
Sunar
3
we.t 
issed in
the newss ro u  ve mder veey,   ie Stabi
21
lithor roard's
49
sell some loy mmert-n w wlies to iy yeore ad
the formatior of  s
editorial tier: Lon nost oroinently.
Sele  Coverm Yono
Asuli's princooal warne ur co.  d 
of th tos
cludirg rovermcerteaned r  "stoure e
well aware that y so coi e ure rr d e tenden
cies wte ure to pla r re urdr s rer." T' also
pointed out  diserewr  23.76,00,000
valuation of fifter ire as for v is r veceived,
and th taderst valuut   v4e.o0.. t ad that "the
present nane enent o veronent rira is r w imorovement."
Lair tehi, Tiyo Shimbom cnd "omturl wisesed e sale of govern
ment raifuys, d other ror r wo  it tems of he ef
fect of suct ssles  tuxalion. air av'sd e ssuance of tax
warrants to le oure ased  Ie tax pirlessly" and in thst con
nection stated: "Premir a  s i  t taxes Fave reached
Confidential Fi
the limits of y weoule's cuouty to  rd reveale tie lans or
reducirg the tax ud. C of iole  to cl t e properties.
Fowever, there are :t u i ms wr a be oI sorable
55
prices. voteless, it i advi le or the c rraent to disnose
of propectieshiel it ar spense vit  a re of reducirg texes."
To e  iabun, while nettler omosio or  rs ro the plan to
sell gover m t railways to private avestors, rmot  as did Asahi
ALY
Trat
ile
UNCLASSIFILD
3
0
MR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATION OF AOSON TAKEN.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Lespatch N. 167 of
Match 21, 1949.
-2-
that "the step is cuite opposite to the general trend in the world,"
and advised the government to keep this point in mind. Yomiuri
treated the subject in broader terms: "The question of reappraising
capital assets, a problem which can no longer be ignored, will never
be solved if the government adreres to its poliey of collecting more
and more taxes, without taking up the question o. the larger view-
point of normalizing: all economic activities."
LSB White Paper
The white paper on Japanese economy published by the Economic
Stabilization Board received wide ceverage and significant discussion
in the Big Three, in Nihon Keizai, and in Tokyo Shimbun.
All but Yomiuri noted vith anpreval the white paner's irdication
that real wages had risen in the past year by about seventy per cent
because of a rise in prices of tve fundred and twerty per cent as
compared with a rise in wages of three undred and cishity per cent.
Tokyo Shimbun stated: "It carnet be deniud thet Uaited States aid
and government subsidies have brought about sins o? economic stabi-
lization such as increase in production, slovina dot of infiation,
and increase in the real vares of worrers."
l'ainichi held that the vhite paper outlined a rore hopeful future
than expected: "First of all, a shift from the dark of the past to a
hopeful light in the future is discernible. Of course it (the white
paper) reveals various difficulties vhich confront our economy. Yet
it signalizes the fortunate fact that we are heading toward stabili-
zation and rehabilitatior." Discussin- the rise in real wages,
Mainichi dampened excessive optimism derived fron the bure figures
quoted in the white paper by otserving that, though the imorovement
has been great, real wages stand at ut forty-six per cent of the pre-
war level.
Asahi made the point that such stability s has besn r ized
is due to American assistance: "In reading the white , ve
feel keenly the urgent necessity of achieving the o' jec is of the
economic program, the stabilization and self-sufficiency of Japanese
economy. Our economy was stabilized to a considerable degree last
year. However, it contains many difficulties and contradictions.
Moreover, it has been stabilized because of United States aid, to-
talling more than $1,000,000,000, an enormous sum of money. If the
nation wants to produce essential goods equivalent to the United
States aid, it will require several times more noney than this.
Therefore, it is evident that the stabilization of the national econ-
omy depends largely on United States economic aid."
Yomiuri describes the white paper as "a little incomprehensible"
and criticizes it for failing to detail the steps necessary for Japan-
ese economic progress. It stated:
"Placing emphasis on economic independence, the white paper is
premised on the idea that the old recovery policy cn an isolated
national basis should be changed to a new reconstructior poliey on
an international basis."
"Increased
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.90)
Maren <1, 1944.
"Inoreased outout is Laoossible ttout yport pro-otion,
especially in = ccunt  lke ours wich depend Ircly upon trede
becauae of the shortage of resour ces, over-nor lation and loss of
colories. This point wes aot to re neglectod in be post hut noy it
is strosscd  +he ni -point economie stutilz. jon oro ram. Usitod
States inister Dode in Lis rocent s'sterent rrs also esoecially em-
chasized tris r. rasirely erou ,
 vite paner deals
indi ferentiy vior t de crcblems and tre trrd l uation ir pautic-
ular, whil it iyes s m riocity rivsis of ereral
ad  y irdusties."
Un-J.ouruse I vesti utins Somittee
Yair icli and sali on Mrer 1 ublis ed simultaneous editorials
analyzirs the possi le adverce effects of the un-Juparese irve stigat-
ing cormittee wi ose formation ly 'he ebiret l s lt n repeatedly re-
ported as under consideration. otl se usper coincided 1so
on the poirt t.t without a cle defi. ition f at activities are
un-Japarese suer a committee cr en  wuy o re-creation of a
"thought control" orgaric tion. irii onsidered that an un-Jaoan-
ese activities i vesti ating ca cittee p.clurred o the un-krerican
activitics i.vestiguting cer ittee "euld : ot b.  sily transolanted
to r countret to  tar  be wers of
polies'ure et so vo r re oved. s  w of  ranteeung
trat t' is orgen will not britg about a r vival of Ie ilou-it nolice!
in a different ferm?"
"Todar wh en the Lome land is in such punurions cor dition, what
Japanese cicizen would conseiom sly take up ur natrio i nd ur-Janan-
use' actions agairst the state? He would lik: to leli-ve that there
are none. Thus we hove there is no need for ar or r  sed on the
premise tit t ere are destructive elements ir Japan who plan to
divide up the Japanese race. l'ore urgent at this roment is that the
nation have a sound critical spirit."
Asahi commented: "If the un-Japanese ac! ivit ie mit ee is
established under the Cabirct its operatior is most li  to he
kept from the people's inspection.
"The government ras roportedly decided t forr re cormittre as
a carinet organ for fear that t cowritter if stuhlis ed i the
Diet, mist eventually play into the hands o e  runist  rty.
This goverrnental attitude cives us the iresuior t the i  con-
nittee is vothing but an rti-Jo mur ist ore ietior med to sup-
press the Comaunist Party like tle vev-de furct thevlt police. As a
result of the last clectior, tie Sommur ist Prly as occupied the
fourth position in the Diet, gairing a'cnt ten per ct of the votes
cast. If the government tries unilaterally to oppress tre people's
desires thus expressed, it cam ot be the wey a deroer tic government
acts. accordingly, we besitate to pprove he voverniert's plan to
create such. an organ directly under the bi, ince rany problems
still remair to le sclved in corn ctior vit this comdttee."
The Communist Party organ Akahata two deys later made Cull use
of these noderate vievs in Lairichi and Asahi, und suoted eoprovingly
LP. KADES
UNCLASSIFI..D

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.81)
Tokro'n Jespater L7 of
March 21, 1949.
-1
Ir. KeDe, Deputy F f of trts Feadguarterst Covenrent Seetion.
who vas  ported fros Wast rgton as statia ti u the extrere ri
vas core caloreou the the ertrene left.
etlyyour
For te ctir oi Adviser:
we. Pus
1or
631
Al der.La
Parel ment o e Depart
UNCLACCIFI.D

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.94)
ZE
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
VAndHeg: States Folitical Adviser
OTHEAST AIAN AFFAIfSr Japan
arch 25, 1949.
NA
No. 176.
PARTMET OF STLn A
noted
D (Fer Department use ). on Teen
Su s     n .
for   -ing eh 2, 1949.
REC'D
MAY 6
ACTION
The Honorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir:
POS
OLI
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's d h
OFD
no. 167 of March 21, 1949 and to previous despat cs on the
894.
above subject and to transnit herewith a summary of Japanese
newspaper reactions to current events for the period of
Herch 18 through Harch 24, 1949.
894.9111/ 3.2149
6
Surary
The biggest news break of foreign origin was the ernounce-
C
ment in Washington of the North Atlantic Pact. Japaney press
reactioas to this event have been reported to the Department in
1
telegram no. 79 of March 21, 1949. Drafting of the budget has
2
been the only topic of domestic origin receiving promineit news
5
play and editorial cn mment.
4
6
Budget Drafting
The Japanese pross has almost uman mously understood that
the budget noy being ararted all in its final form refleet the
adoption of a defi it economic policy. Editorialists have
broadly diacussed varior: phases of bndget-making, sesing it
as an enbodiment o uinistrative action to control curreney
inflation, to detersine the rate ef reeevery and prebably to
pare the
UNC: ASSIFILD
MAY 20 19
FILHD
ACTION COPY
TAKEN.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 176,
jiarch 25, 1949.
-2-
pare the fulfilltent of campaign pronisen made by the Deno catic
Liberal rerty no , cont rolling the ejority of seats in the Diet.
While some hewspapers have seen "recovery" end "stabilisation"
as antit etical, this tendency is disup eering end the najer
caphasis in the past week has been pleced on the probehility.
that the Denocratic Liberel Party'e cempaign pronises must ive
ay to the "susgestions" of Allied Headquerters for a h lenced
bulget. Dy iaplication, t erefore, the De ocratic Liberal Tarty
is being virtuslly excused fron fuifillnent of its ca paign
pledges because of the force najeure calling for incorporation
into the budget of Headquarters' "suggustions." Since the edi-
torials are largely repetitive, with no wide divergence of views,
only a fev tspical selections are quoted below.
Tokyo Times state : "The public pronises of the Denocratic
Liberal Farty have proved unrealizable...It seems thet t!e sub-
stance of the budget recently suggested by GHQ denies alrost all
DF public promises." Tokyo Shimbun took a similar position:
"The Denocratic Liberal Farty and it3 leaders now find themselves
in en extremely trying situation, since the GHQ suggestions have
made it practically impossible for then to live up to their pablic
pronises. Premier Yoshida reportedly reverked that,  viw of
the presont situation, he would discard his public promises. At
eny rate, the people as well as the Goverament should be fully
aware of the per severance demanded of them in executing the prin-
ciples implied in Ghe's budget suggestions." This newspeper, hov-
ever, tried to sugar the pill by pointing out that the "budget sug-
gestions" of General Headquarters contained a quid pm quo: "Toint-
ing out the cl aracteristics of the GHo tentative plan, Finance
Minister Ikeda rmerked that if it is faithfully executed it vill
enable the Japanese nation to receive foreign aid anountin; to
170 billion yen in the next fiscal year and thet such ail ould
greatly contribute to the economic recovery of Japan."
Mainichi made the sane point in a news story: "It is reported
that if our country enforces this budget (i.e., the one outlined
by Genoral Headquart ers) Ja an will receive roughly 500,000,000
dollars in aid fron the United States durins the next fiscal yuer.
When coaput ed at the rate of 350 yer to the dollar, this vould be
in the nei hborhood of 175 billion yen." (The present military con-
vervion rate is 270 yen to the doller.)
Meiniohi emphasized e ltorially that stabilizatior and recevery
are posoible simultaneously. "When people consider the problem of
choosing butween reconstruction and stabilization, they re apt to
think that
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.87)
Tekyo's Despatch No. 176,
Tarch 25, 1949.
-3
thint thnd one shomld be sacrificed entirely for the other.
Hovever, this i. ineompetible wit), actval policy...The fact
that riorit bs beu hifterfron recortruction to stabili-
zeo con mot oun timt the former ould be totelly serificed
Sor the latter. The relation e eor e t  is inter lependence."
Youlurt tactly chided the eoeratie salorel  arty for eking
pro r ro sihle of srrrhent. dolerine e pecur
coditio of our country's bel  sund suder allied oucupe
, i i naturally ver Hr leae for mny vermment do carry
o t it plicy, enpeciall, slnee excent ton of te nine-peint
esononic atabilizabion progran, indicated by coa last vinter,
hes rlorite ovor eny party polioy. Fron tiis point of viw we
carnot help smapathising wdth the Yoshida cahtust whiieh is in an
sovard ituetion. Tho nine-point econoric directive, lo u ver,
 iasued one month hefore the ganerel clection. Accorlingly,
party lea'crs phould have eschewed those public phclaes vich
run counter to the directive." Yonturi conclu'ed, lovem, that
"ths Yoshide adnini stration must by no a an: cive up it, intention
of ecuting its public pledges. ven if circurstancer de not
pernit oo aplete exeoution of the plcrgos, the cahinet must do its
vory best to carry thher-out to the m ximun."
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting roliticri Adviser:
0
G1oce. Huston
Conaclor of Lssion
631
Alladen:h
Fare ment Mat to the Depurtment.
UOD

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
FC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
United States Political Adviser
NORTHEAST/ASIAN AFFAIRS
for Japan
MAY1949
Tokyo, April 1, 1949.
DEPARTMEN OF STATF
No. 195.
NA
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department use only).
Action Assigned to
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
March 31, 1949.
13
REC'D
MAY 6
ACTION
FE
The Honorable
894
INFO
The Secretary of State,
DCR
Washington.
POS
me
OLI
Sir:
6
EUR/X
OFD
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's despatch
no. 176 of March 25, 1949 and to previous despatches on the
above subject and to transmit herewith a summary of Japanese
newspaper reactions to current events for the week of March 25
through March 31, 1949.
49
Summary.
C
The bulk of editorial coment was devoted--as it had been
for the previous fortnight--to the Japanese budget and attendant
problems such as taxation and the majority party's abandonment
of its campaign pledges. The only other topic attracting a
significant volume of editorial discussion was peace negotiations
in China.
China Peace.
Extreme pessimism marked all editorial discussions of
prospects of peace between the Nationalist Government and the
communists in China.
Yomiuri considered that "peace on an equal footing is gen-
erally believed to be exceedingly difficult of achievement" and
"since the
UNCLASSIFIED
MAY 201010
AOTION COPY
TO.DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 195,
April 1, 1949.
-2-
"since the communists are said to stick to their announced
terms, there is little hope for peace." This newspaper con-
sidered that "reorganization of the national army and the
punishment of war criminals are the biggest issues."
Asahi and Jiji Shimpo concurred that the principles of
the Chinese communists have changed from advocacy of "new
democracy" to the orthodox communist line. Asahi said: "The
communists' decision is featured as a shift in party principle
from a new democracy to socialisn. These changes in basic
policies have tended to darken the prospects for peace talks.
The new democracy which was proposed by MAo Tse-tung in Janu-
ary 1940 is said to be one of the most important revolutionary
ideas published out side Moscow since the Russian Revolution.
The principle of new democracy was formed during World War II
when the communists felt the need to compromise with the demo-
cratic powers and to encourage the development of popular fronts
in Europe...That the Chinese communists have relinquished the
principle of new democracy shows they have developed to the point
where they monopolize political power and that the principle of
new democracy has already completed its role, even in China."
Jiji Shimpo also noted this shift and commented that "To date
they (the communists) have advocated a new democracy and given
the impression of having shelved their communist principles.
Now, however, they have brought their true character to the
fore. In addition to being a decisive blow to. those who held
to the illusion that the Chinese communists would become similar
to Tito's communists, this fact gives us the feeling that the
peace negotiations--in the face of the determination of the
Chinese communists--are practically hopeless."
Nihon Keizai believed that since the communists insist on
their eight-point program for peace, "this means virtual sub-
mission and is therefore not acceptable to the Nanking Government
which is ready to end the civil war with a 'glorious peace."
This newspaper considered that "the success of the peace confer-
ence depends on the balance between the Nationalists and the
communists."
Budget.
The necessity of subcrdinating Democratic Liberal Party
canpaign pledges to the necessities of economic stabilization
as required
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 195,
April 1, 1949.
-3-
as required by this Headquarters was the theme of several
editorials, mainly repetitive of arguments already covered
in previous despatches. Yomiuri, however, found some comfort
in pointing out that some of those pledges can be fulfilled,
notably the reopening of eating and drinking establishments,
abolition of control over daily necessities and the curtailing
of government personnel.
In one of the most trenchant editorials noted to date,
Tokyo Times said that "the importance of the nine-point economic
stabilization progran was not sufficiently recognized" at the
time of its enunciation. It continued by making two points.
The first was that increasing taxes are to "plug inflationary
loopholes by restricting or banning construction bonds, Recon-
struction Finance Bank loans and local government bonds; and
simultaneously make the people of Japan recognize the actual
condition of Japan's economy by charging import subsidies to
tax revenue instead of to foreign aid." The second point was
that by creating a counterpart fund in yen for foreign aid, the
way is opened for industrial and other long-term loans. Tokyo
Times concluded that some enterprises might collapse and unem-
ployment increase but that "the national economy cannot be
sound before it goes through this stage" of deflation.
Yomiuri and Jiji Shimpo both doubted that the anticipated
revenues from taxes could be collected. Jiji Shimpo considered
that "in so far as the earned income tax is concerned, little
difficulty is seen in its collection" since it is deducted from
payrolls by the employer. However, this newspaper felt that in
the case of self-assessed taxes "which represent two thirds of
the entire income tax, especially in view of the business income
tax, it is quite doubtful whether the revenues from these taxes
will reach the anticipated sum." Yomiuri, without going into so
much detail, stated: "Whether this large revenue will be secured
under the existing conditions of tax collection is questionable."
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
Cloyce K. Huston
Counselor of Mission
631
AHaden:hh
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
Parchment Mat to the Department.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.84)
THE PORIDIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
G. DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASAFFAIRS
211
APR1
DEPARTMEST OF STATE
un acun ugl
Amil25, 45
ms.
REC'D
APR 11
ACTION
FE
INFO
894.9
DCR
OLI
POS
CIA
EUR
ir:
OFD
to .i
 1f of r
a to previous
t cove
t si 
M
of J s
the wesk i
117, 7
849
su-L
Me Rort. tle
t
sorap e.e
Pe
Ls . i
to tu 1n
Fou
eic.ter
C
  r  
cusslon or te Hol
し
isor
Las t t r to
"rforos fos e 
roveil l 
stro
Lve .
Confidential F
pattore o t lo ltio To. live
of t.
JUN 7
FILED
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.94)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
of the pact and take the initiative in a peace offensive.
The present session of the United Nations General Assembly
is a good opportunity to do this. We earnestly hope
that the United Nations which is the only bridge con-
necting the East and West will be strengthened."
After recounting the Soviet protests to the Pact's
signature, Seikai Keizai stated:  "The participating
countries have no desire to start var. Democratic
government itself will not allow aggressive war. This
if the Soviet Union adopts a cautiols policy then it
may be considered that a step towards nease has been
taken. In fact, a grour of Americun Jon ress men tre
advocating that a peace conference bo hela wit the soviet
Union i. conjunction witi the conelusion of tiis uct.
all huxanity with its desp desire for retse leves thet
the first step toward reaee  ill be telen n  e neit
stage, following the conel sion or tri treatp. Hihon
Keizai called the North tlantle Paot "epo i," it!
the United States as honorable steutarl  r.
1.5
stated that "the estern Eurerean povere   threat
of eggression, not the Soviet Union"na  s cr 
opinion that if the Soviet Union ictain  eacerul
poliey, the present disylietin internatiol situ tion
should be eased, like ice melting in the syvi  sunshine.
In that event, the North tlantio Pact wili becone
superfluous. That is the very resson why in is cenerally
considered a shorter cut to peace for tie Soviet Taion
to reconsider her actions than to denounee the neet."
On the occasion of the pighine of the Tueu, muinichi
and Asahi published simultaneous editorials nelyzing
its world-wide meanin. Lainichi statel:
"The problem is hat influence t is t ete vil
exert upon the peace a destiny of the worl.. aile
the Soviet Union criticized the pact ss beim  essive,
erican, Sritish ane Prench foreiun inistere
President Trusan call it e shiela a inet agpre sian."
It continued: "Japan dees not share tie comon
inheritanoe of the demosracies. he is o in' the.
A setback for the deroeracies vouli weshen the l coeratiza-
tion of Ja an; their aiv nee will strengthen her. If
positive efforts are exertei to realize t. c ideal of
democracy as stressed by the sinatory n'ions in the
North atlantic Pact, it will reutly effect tris country."
asahi took the position th t Je tnese efrorts to
develop into a reacefl and de oeratie nation vould enlist
the sympathy of the na ticns si natory to the Horth
Atlantic Fact. But it arned a inst "doubts a l fears"
as War breeders:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.91)
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
"The Soviet Union is certainly a peace lovin!
nation. The fact that despite her pacifisn the Soviet
Union is attempting to herer the working of the North
Atlantio Pact ls lergely due to her inveterate  istrust
of west Eurorean caritslish. Regarlin: this point, hcwever,
the Soviet Union wight well be reriniei of ths fact ttat
the ectivities of the Soviet Com unist forces following
the wer have constitated pert of the reasons necos i tstins
the conclusion of t. is treaty.
"On the other hana, the est uropean mations
should elso veflect upon che prop iet or t. cir peut
policies.
"what is most imrurot at teis c ent is  at
all natioas vhieh have w hei the Rorth tl nr'e Yeat
snould becone aware of Leir o asit for   i. selr-
defense, now reinforced y thls treaty, l rres t.e. celves
frou futile doubts and Pors...bou to  focrs will
then ive wey to confilenee  i coo r ii ror  ri Iter
cnd more yeuceful future."
The Bulret
Presentution or the Govurim ent's J. t budge
for 1949-50 to the Diet sub-ulinaxei th ue's of
debate which ave acconanici its pre aration. Further
editorial attention wili probably be devoted to the
debate concerning it in rle Diet, ith finl yasste
forecast for April 17. Nichi Nichi c To.yo Times
concurred in their vievs of the bud et. mhe 1049
budget has no alterne tive hut to follor he lines of
the General Head uarters' suggestion." Tovo Tles
steted and continued: "The nine polnt eT t
Stabilization Prora is strinrent ni ,  sirested
budget plan is consiierubly reinful. Thc s Hovever
should not be interrreted as a ponirests io. of dis-
satisfuction on the purt of tho Unitel Staces iti. the
lack of effort of the Jap nese nl of car love  ent.
It is necessary that they ne suce tea us  Prienily
warning to urce Ja an to stand on her  f et."
Nicli Kichi considerea thct "In tomay's J. n,  uter
who ay be in power, tre udet vul ct v
difforent" and atterytel to clariry te tesuo of cc-raisn
pledges whose fulfiliment tui to be dorerrea jue to the
strin enoy of the bud et. "It is cnl ro er to ce sure
the nonrliriil cnt of public frolises o. e rni to
the sovermtent party cha es a leeson to ot.i perties
as well. .what we at to stres now is tit i.
debatine the budiet the parties cialyze e hbasie iss es
and consider them construetively. they she ld vive
priority to reason rot er than to senti ent."
Pre er
UNCLISSIF LED

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
Premier Yoshida's Policy Speech
Premier Yoshida's policy speech scccmpanying
the submission of the dreft budget to the Diet, wes
greeted with more brickbats  than flo ers by Tokyo's
editorialists.
It was called "without initiative" (Y i i),
"meager" (hainichi), "stereotype" (Li.. Keizai), "eak
and dry" (Yukan Chugai).
Principal objections to the Yoshida speech see!
to be causeu by its unembellisled forthrightness, its
failure to detail the adminis:retive neasures to he
taken to brin about tle Iroad polisy sir of ecomodo
stabilization, and bald r-netitiou of considerations
already edvanced by Headcuarters srolesnen concerning
economic stubilization. Nihon Keizal stated the case
ruther pleintively: "e Insisted on t!s ne cessi f
enduriny austecity vithout si ovin uy eattcles..
Concerning the absence of specific .easure h: sse
newspeper suid: "The fornal rrobless, suc! a.: economic
inderendence and the accurulation of capitl are very
importent. However, the nine point econo..io prinoiple
will die vithout the logic to support the econowic
prograe. The key to the problem is whether the Govern-
ment vill enforce the nine point principle rerely because
it hes been assi'ned that task or vill do it cn its
own."
Lainichi aprroached the sume topio fro! a if. erent
view oint."The premier did not say anythin shout the
Demooratio Liberal Party failure to fulfill Iis cumpaign
promises, contrary to general expectsticns. Tis rerark
thet the only wey in wiich the nation's recorstruotion
cen be achieved is to follow the roed outlinel by linister
Dodge, as well as to erforce feithfully the nile point
Toonomic stabilization progren, wes expected. Le limited
himself to this. Thus it cen be seia   the Preier
completely 'passed the buck'".
a good
Yomiuri resented Prenier Yoshida's "overnsent by
wayb.
translation" and said tlct the policy speech "was serely
a counterpart of the nine point pottern". It continued:
eyperning
"In other words it vas a transl ion of the C, version.
If the Administration is carrying out overerent by
translation under the princi le that 'nothin else could
be done beoause the country is unier occupation', then
what is the use of having a Demooretio Liberal Party,
the Socialist Party end all the rest?"
The
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
UNCLASSIFIED
-5-
The Conmunist orgen Akahate greetea the poliey peech
with two editorials ejually vituperative a ad led ofr its
second attack by stating thst "Trenier Yoshida's oliey
speeck has once agein roven the f et that ie is a
notorious liur."
Respectfully yours,
For the .cting Yoliticsl Aavir:
0.e . F
Counsclor er Lissicn
Co y to: merican Enbaser, London.
Parchtent Mat to Depart ent.
631
AHaden:hp
UNCLAOSTFIED

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
7.E
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERIGA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, April 15, 1949
No. 230
fil
UNCLASSIFIED (For Dapartment use only)
REC'D
APR.25
ACTION
Subject: Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
FE
11., 1949.
INFO
DOR
OLI
The Honorable
894.9
POS
The Secretary of State,
ITP
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Yission's despatch no. 21l of
pril 3, 1949 and to previcus despatches on the ahove subject and to
transmit herewith a surmary of newspaper reactions to current events for
the week of April 8 through April 14, 1949.
Summary
Primary emphasis was given to domestic affairs during the period
under review. The fourth annual convention of the Socialist Party.
opening in Tokyo on April 14 rated the best play, followed by attention
to the status of women in Japan. Sporadic editorials discussed peace
efforts in China.
Premier Yoshida's remarks on neutrality (reported in the Mission's
despatch no. 213 of April 11, 1949) were censured by Asahi but no other
editorial comment on this subject has been noted.
Socialist Party Convention
The Social Democratic Party's defeat in the January 1949 elections
in which it dropped - in terms of representatives elected - from first
to third place among Japanese parties, was a dramatic event stimulating
much discussion and analysis (see the Mission's despatches nos. 58 of
January 28, 1949 and 71 of February 4, 1949). Effort of the Socialist
Party to pull itself into a cohesive force at its fourth annual conven-
tion opening in Tokyo on April 14, 1949 has prompted Toko editorialists
o diuss again the party's plight.
The problem facing the socialists was expressed sharply by Nihon
"It is feared that the fourth national convention will intensify
UNCLASSIFIED
FILOD
ACTION COPY

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch no. 230,
April 15, 1949.
-2-
Socialist intra-party differences rather than reconstruct the party.
This is premised on the fact that the basic policies to be decided at.
this convention are the product of the ideologies of both the factions,
left and right, incompatible since the formation of the Socialist
Party, and of the differences in their characters. The feud is an
outgrowth of history and basic in type. It stems from more serious
differences in ideology and character than the feud among the conserva-
tives who have common interests.
"The first problem concerns the policies for party structure and
activities. The Socialist leftist faction!insists upon original
socialism or scientific socialism, in opposition to the present progres-
sive social democracy, and upon the party's assumption of leadership
over the working populace. Cn t e other hand, the rightist faction
contends that the socialism upon which the Socialist Party was formed
stands on the same principles as the British Labor Party which advocates
non-Marxism or the second international."
Most editorialists make the point that an important problem to be
solved is the cuestion of who will assume the party's leadership. But
several admonish the party for emphasizing too much the ideological,
the theoretical and the abstract. Asahi stated in this respect:
"If responsibility (for defeat at the election of January 23,
1949) is to be argued for the sake of party reconstruction, the probe
should go deep; otherwise the intended reccnstruction would end in
one of expediency with the next general election as the target. It
must be added, however, that fresh leadership equal to the task of
reconstruction, coupled with the elimination of boss-dominated factions,
is the first and foremost requirement.
"Further, the campaign policies reportedly involve such problems
as a revolutionary formula, scientific socialism, theories of social
democracy, a class political party devoted to action, and a class-
conscious general mass party. It is admitted that this is a list of
major theoretical problems. In the eyes of outsiders, however, they
are nothing but topics of factional rivalry disguised as theoretical
conflicts."
Nichi Nichi took a similar position: "We expect the Socialist Party,
above all, to become a party based on reformists' idealism. Socialists
should be administrators of social justice, facing squarely the actual
situation in Japan. The question of ideology is secondary. They should
be consolidated on a moral basis on the one hand and on the other they
should effect a united front. If they fail to fulfil these two conditions,
their good ideas and lofty ideals will prove meaningless. There is only
one way to end the useless strife now going on. They should stop
quarreling over imported ideology and stand on the solid ground of
reality." Mainichi called for unity and definite programming: "Of
primary importance are a full understanding of the principle on which
the party was founded, the maintenance of a spint of reform and the
formation of definite programs." Tokyo Shimbun considered that it is
"of first importance to the Socialist Party, in rebuilding its
organization, to show a unified plan of practical action in its policies,
personnel
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch no. 230,
April 15, 1949.
-3-
persornel (i.e. leadership), organization and party program. As long
as the party presents its ideological conflicts as pertaining to the
foundations of its existence and to the struggle between right and
left-wing factions for party hegemony, the Socialist Party will never
succeed in getting back on its feet."
Yoshida Doubts on Neutrality
Asahi was moved on April 12 to censure Premier Yoshida for his
reply on April 8 to a Parliamentary question, in which he expressed
doubt as to whether it was "proper" for Japan to maintain neutrality
permanently (Mission's despatch no. 213 of April 11, 1949). Asahi
stated: "This answer is regrettable. Needless to say the problem
of neutrality is a very serious one. The reply was not made too
seriously, nor to our surprise vas there strong resentment against
Lis response." This newspaper considered that the maintenance of
neutrality depended on geographical position, unity of the people,
elements of time, neighboring states, the world situation and the
historical moment. It considered that Premier Yoshida's example of
Pelgiun whose neutrality was twice violated was inept: "What about
Switzerland?", it asked, and warned that missing this opportunity to
establish Japanese neutrality would be an iirep rable mistake. "This
neutrality cannot be maintained merely on the strength of a declaration.
It can only succeed if we put our trust in the justice and faith of
the other nations of the world cnd be legally recognized by them. Have
we no right to claim their recognition?"
Status of Women
Celebration of Women's Week, from April 10 to April 17, 1949,
marking the third anniversary of women's suffrage in Japan, has prompted
a  editorials on the subject. "Be ambitious," Asahi advised, but
felt that women would not be "emancipated by the mere observation of
women's week once a year, or by employing what we may call abstract
slogans." Kainichi asked for the improvement of the "intellectual
level" in women rather than "an offensive against men." Yomiuri
regretted that prostitution was still permitted "almost openly" in
Japan and that the stipulations of the Labor Standards Law of equal
Wages for equal work were being "ignored" in most occupations. "In
the present campaign" Yomiuri considered, "we are led to feel that
women's week is merely a fete of intellectual women. It is hoped that
steady efforts will be made to undertake more practical problems
instead of idealistic ones as is the case at present."
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
Cloyce K. Huston
Counselor of Mission
631
AHaden:vw
Parchment Mat to the Department
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.92)
United States Political Adviser
OF
for Japan
sep
Tckyo, April 27, 1949.
10
No. 263
No ac 
Wo. 15,1949
UNCLASSIFTED (For Department use only).
Subjest: Japanese esspper Reactions for the Week Ending
April 21, 1949.
REC'D
MAY 2
894.
The Hone, rhe
ACTION
The Sucret ary 
St tu
FE
INFO
FR.
DGR
POS
.eove
OLI
of nrrarr reactions
OFD
of Are  thro pril 21, 1949.
2749
Sumary
Edit orial cr: ment as di..tribut ed among a variety of topics,
the single event attracting ost attention being the Social Demo
cratic Party's feurth annual convention. For one day the state
ment by Minister Joseph . DDGL (reported in the Mission's
despatch no. 237 of April 19, 1949) lanketed al1 ot her newe.
The adeption of the budget, the preparation of which has for
several weeks past commanded such a large proportion of the news
and editorial cclumns, as treated rather as a pcint of departure
by most newspaper's which in general moved on to other features of
the Economic Stabilization Program, uch as prices and cuts in
government personnel.
Socialist Party Convention
Editorialists were enerally isappoir' the results
of the fourth anruel convention of he Socia  ratit Farty.
Hochi Shimbun defined hat it lled the "essential dif-
ference" between the Morito (rightist faction) plan and the Suzuki
(leftist faction) plan for the reorganization of the party, as
follows:
The Suuki tactin won out
"1. The
JUN 15 1949
FILID
UNCLASSIFIED
frially as the comventin)
mg
ON COPY
RETURN TO DO/E PILES WITÉIN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATION OP

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despat ch Nc. 263,
April 27, 1949.
-2-
"I. The Suzuki plan assumes that the Socialist Party is a
party founded upon secialism, whereas the Morito plan assumes
that the party is based upen social democracy embracing re-
formism.
"2. The Suzuki plen views revelution as the transfer of state
power from one class to another, and contends that a political
revolution must necessarily precede a peaceful social revolu-.
tion. The Morito plan contends that a peaceful social revolu-
tion must go parallel with e political revolution.
"3. Concerning party policies, the Suzuki plan sees the Socialist
Party as a class party while the Morito plan sees it as a
masses party founded on the workers.
"4. In connection with the party s self-criticisn of its past
errors, the Suzitki plan maintains that the party's loss of
prestige is due to its participation in coalition cabinets,
whereas the Morito plan lays the cause to other reasons as
well as to this point."
Yomiuri consi dered that the final conclusions of the convention
were the "groundwerk for re construc tion of the Socialist Party." It
drew attention to the party s "basic attitunde" "The Socialist Party
will becane an ind ependent social demccratic party," and said that
this derived from the lHorito plan. Yomiuri felt that "the new party
policy, which is a mixture of beth the rightist and the leftist plan,
lacks clearness. in short, the new policy which is a compromise,
has again made the Socialist attitude ambiguous....A purely theoretical
compromise will not reconstruct the party if its members persist in
their factional drife."
Mainichi con idered the proceedings of the convention "far from
satisfactory" and di anissed the party s platform as "nebulous," con-
sidering that reconstruction of the party depended on cooperation
between its members. "The weak point of the Socialists lies in their
lack of will to suppress intraparty differences for the sake of party
growth, to say nothing of the st ruggle for office within the party.
Therefore. as long as they cannct get rid of this chronic weakness,
they may nct be able to operate in accordance with the admirable pro-
grams and system they may formulate lhereafter. We hope that they will
speedily wipe out the public impression that they are constantly pre-
occupied by intraparty struggles." Asan considered shat the success
of the convention s resolutions requires contin ous education "for the
general masses" who mast "possess a high level " intelligence and
common sense. This cannet be achieved immediat-ly." Asahi thereupon
advised the Socialists to have patience and "exert strenuous effcrts"
to achieve a "hig: level of culture."
Jiji Shimpo
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 263,
April 27, 1949。
-3-
Jiji Shimpo. more approving than most newspapers, stated that
the Socialist Party convention failed to answer the question: Is
the Socialist Party a class party cr a national party? "We believe
that to demand that this probl em be set+led in a clear-cut manner
is unreasonable and hasty. Since it intends to draw a line against
the Communist Party, the Socialist Party cannot be a class party.
In dismissing this problem by a compromise in wording and deciding
to launch its movement as a national party in prastice, the party
acted very reasenably." Tokyc Shimbun considered "the Socialist
Party s character as defined in its new policy is still ambiguous,"
and doubted whether in a twe-party system it could uphold its end.
It advised the party to "appeal to the publie" if it becomes clear
that the "doctored-up agreenent bet een the two factions cannot work
out. " Tokyo Times considered that "reslization of a great Socialist
Party is, in our opinion, cut of the question if the rightists and
leftists fail to cast aside minor ifferenees in faver of the major
common int erest."
Akahata. the Comnunist Party organ, was also critical of the
convention: "The new program states that the party will fight the
conservatives as well as the communists. However, there is no indi-
cation whatsoever as to the ways and means to fight the con ervative
reactionarles. While admitting that the program nay pessibly have
something in comnen t the reforeed formula ef beurgeois middle
of-the-read polities, it states that it has nething in commen with
the communiste, Any class party having nothing in commen with our
party is nothing but a bourgecas party."
Akahata cont inued. "Whes signifi cance is t. ere in the fact
that the leftist., SuzukI Mosaburc, nas been ele ted secretary general?
His clique is net the leftist faction but a most poisonous evil to
the masses and to their revelution. As was clarificd at the con-
vention. the auther of the "Explanation of the Directive Opposing
the Joint Struggle vith the Communists," which was made public by
the party s Central Executive Committee, is none other than leftist
leader Suzuki Mosaburo. In view of the violent revelutien designed
again st cur party and rumors to the effect that communists are spies
of the Soviet Union. it is di ffic lt to draw a clear-cut line of
demarcation between the Social ists and HITLER and TOJO."
Economic Matters
As though recognising implicitly that adoption of apan's first
postwar balanced budget marked a stage in the implementation of the
Economic Stabilization Program, Tokye elitorialists have moved on to
the discussion of a variety of other peints coneernei with this
country s economy. Yomiuri and Asali loth discussed price policies.
Nihon Keizai warned against sudden deflation Jiji Shimpo asked
editorially whether delay in government payments were intentional,
and Mainichi end Nichi Nichi both presented their views concerning
government
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 263,
April 27, 1949.
-4
government personnel cuts. The composite result has been to keep
before the editorial reading public the broad concern Tokyo news-
papers feel for Japan's economic development.
Yomiuri considered that by ieption of the bulget "based upon
the Dodge recommendations, the Japanese 'stilt economy has dis
carded cne of the stilts. However, the cther stilt — subsidies —
has become the longer as a result." It statei that the "pivotal
issue" at present is hov to eliminate subsidies to industry and ad-
vised the Governuent to formulate a long-range plan to eliminate
it during the next few years. While approving the price policy
announced by the Eccnomic Stabilization Board. Asahi felt that
"conditiens are ne: developing wthich make the ado tlon of a price
fixing policy impe sible. In the first place, the projected estab-
lishment of a single exchange rate wili .ecessarily bring domestic
prices loser to the intern +icnal level ti. mugh loth exports and
import: Whatever Ihe cos ccounting, domest it ri es will have
to be Iixed on the basis of nternaticnal pricei." This newspaper
recommended, therefore, that "the ofricial price system, which etill
covers hundreds of thousands of items, be adjusted fundamentally and
controls be concentrated upon a limited number of essential commedi-
ties. There are many commodities whose official prices can be re
moved without any serious effect upen the nutional esonony. As long
as national finances and benkin: are tigntensd and, moreover, inter
national prices vod. a.. a checking foree thr h erports and imports,
there cannot te miny counodity pricen which iil jump becauce of
renoval of contrel. The new policy (of the Lonemie Stabilization
Poard) hardly repre ments a el ar view on thi: it." It coneluded
that without soiving te pretlen of prices. the "e ecutien of she
nine econemie prineipl will be. tirfi ult."
Nihon betse do red  f Le n  bot udlen deo
flationThe  rc ys beo
time may be atrilu d  to tir pr 1.rrizatien and
to the rerrey of vrment f jl    it ay.
one must be pre parl hborehand. ten d f1 un. it t
late te take meres oinnt it  Pomvent deflation
are necary."aprthnt in
executing the derratdomary brtt n. are l be Iaken to
ward off doflut lon nd. at the wame ir. ft a dministration
should be modifial by ney marke 1 les vith trt objest in
view."
Jiji Shimpe stated that "the Gevernment i: rep or ed te have
delayel payment of it. bill, running up intc e ten:
11
hundreds of billi n of ym," an! sai! that "t.e suspic.t. is nw
arising that the Govereaent i.. delaying its p monts intent ionally.
And we have reasen te bel leve Lh t li susy ian s nor fantastic.
Pthvernment
UNCLASSIFT D

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch Mo. 263,
April 27, 1949.
-5-
Both government and private circles are stricken with what
may be termed 'currency-phobia.' The idea is prevalent in
those circles that direct control over the Bank of Japan
note issue is an effective neasure to curb inflation." This
newspaper added that "the Governaent': failure to pay its
bills has led to tax and wage de Caults," and asserted that
"the de ault is an inevitable outcone of controlled econony."
Asahi al so noted that the Governnent has failed to pay its
bil1s. "Delayed payments total 30,300,000,000 yen in the
budget alone. In addi tion, payments due for ordered telephe
and rolling stocik reach an enormous sum."
Hainichi called for adequate statistics before enbarking
o" wholesale dismissels fron governnent offices, stating that
"even the exact number of governnent employees is not no n
at present." It called for concentration of statistical in-
vestigations in the Census Bureau, in accordance with the
similar recommendation made by the Hoover Commission. Michi
Nichi approached the question of reductions in government
personnel from the standpoint of not permitting bureau chiefs
to formulate budgetary demnds. "Officials who insist on re-
taining the ageney in which they are employed shoul tno that
they are complicating affairs to the detriment of the n ionel
interest."
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Advise::
Cloyce K. Huston
Counselor of Mission
631
AHaden:hh
Parchment Mat to the Department.
Copy to American Embassy, London.
UNCLASSIFILD

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATE OF AMERICA
United States Politicel Adviser
for Japan
RORTHEAST AJIAN AFFAIDS
Toky, April 29, 1949.
No. 269
AEN OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
110
REC'D
Subjert.
Japanese Newspaper Reacticns for Week Ending April 28, 1949.
MAY 2
ACTION
FE
INFO
The Honorable
DCR
The Secretary of State.
POS
Wachington.
89
OLI
CFD
Sir
4
ITF
EUR/X
I have the honor to refer to the Mis s1on's despatch no. 263 of
6
EUR
April 27, 1949 and to previous despatches on the above subject and
L
to transmit herewith a summary of Jepanese nevspeper reactions to
current events for the week of April 22 through April 2e. 1949.
Summary
Setting of an exchange rate for the Japanese yen received by
-29
far the largest editerial and news play duing the period wnder re-
view. Mainichi considered it to be the moct important event in Japan
49
C
during the past twelve months and Yomiuri said it had restored public
confidence in the currency. A separate despatch deeling with this
subject is in preperation.
Renewal of war in Chine, the convention of the Jepen Farmers
Union and my requect to the Sovlet Member of the Allied Council for
Japan for information on Japanese prisoners of war were the other
principal topics claiming en important proportion of editorial
attention.
China War Renewal
Tokyo newspapers now seem convinced that the Communists will
control all of China. Jini Shimpe however considered thet the Com-
mun cts blundered when "they betrayed the people's confidence by
thrusting importunate demands at the Nationelist Goverrureat. They
continually use their overwhelming armed force and neglect the im-
portent work of establishing a government " Mainichi tock a some-
what similar line. "The Communists heve many problems which they
must tackle immediately. the liquidation of dissident elements,
restoration of the economy and the improvement of public welfere.
They are face to face with a situation wherein emphesis must shift
from front-line fighting to behind-the-line reconstruction." In
consequence, Mainichi believed thet either "hot or cold" civil w
would continue
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
WO
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 269.
April 29. 1949.
- 2 -
vould continue for some time. Yomiuri noted that the Chinese Commu-
nists now must pay ettention to maintaining their suoply lines, ad-
minigtering the big citirs in their hands and "settling the confused
economy. The question is on which point the Chinese Communists plece
more stress: the sclution of these problems or e decisive battle
with the Netionelist furces." It concluded that for the moment the
Communists prefer the selution of the militery question.
Nihan Keirai warned agains: considerins the Chinese Conmunists
only as "land reformers" While admitting that they are sweeping
everythins before them, it said that the "manarement of occupied
sreas is more difficult ther the subjuse tion of the sovernment forces."
The influence they wil' exert on Asin is "mfethomable", recording to
this newspaper. which caked that the European nat ons and Americe give
more attention to this aree as "the backdoor to Eur pe. As long as
the front door is closed and the beck door left oper, it is difficult
to stem communist influence in the world."
Japan Farmers Union Canvention
The two-day conventien of the Jepan Farrners Union onded in a
split into twe factione the Independence League and the Unity Con-
ference. The first of these is considered to be dominated by the
Socielists. to be strongly anti-conmuniet and to stand for independ-
ence from influence by politicel perties, especially the Sommunist
Party. The latter faction hre been seized by communist ferces.
Splittir f the Tunaty" faction ewey from the Jrpan Fermers
Union was hailed as a vectory by Akeheta. Communist Perty organ,
which described the precese as follows  "It ie the sorialist execu-
tiver of the wnion whicn hr ve been split up. net the ftrmer's front"
and crowed. "Cur victory at the convention has placed on our party
the great responsibllity of winning over the blank preas. This is
the key to the unificetion or the entire tarmers front". presumably
under communiat leedership.
Mainicht explained vhat the split tn the Japan Farmers Union was
due to inability of the leaderchip to udjust itself to chnnged condi-
tions. "Chanpes in form villages are as arestic as they are profound.
The first is the land rsform program. elatiena overning land con-
trols he ve been suddenly eltered The lendowner versus tenant issue
of the past has changed to an issue of cut tivating farmers versus
cultivating farmer The agrietlturel co-eperative uions have also
come into being. The viewpoint and the cbjective of egrarian move-
ments cennot help but be chensed Uui ns t emeining unchenged will
no longer be suppertes by the fermers. JFU executives me be well
aware of the drastic change in the agrarlan si tuation but they ap-
parently make no sincere efforts to cope with the change.
"They havs alco failcd to work for the farmer in any oreaniza-
tional way to sclve euch serlous prebleme es inflation, taxation and
crop delivery
Meinichi
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 269.
April 29, 1949.
- 3 -
Mainichi concluded that vhe "Unity Faction" had broken down the
structure of the Japan Farmers Unien and intensified the struggle
for power within the Unien, while the "Indepenience Faction" had sowed
discord by attempting to disselve locel chepters dominated by the
communists.
Tokya St impun crediled the vistoly cf the communist forces in
seizing a ortion of the Jepan Fermers Urion to "tactful communist
propagande. prcspests ef e farm depression, and the low intellectual
standerds of youth"
Begvest fer Infermetr on Jenenese Ernerr of Wer.
My Leter so Le, Gevel L. N. Derevwanke, Soviet Member of the
Allied Ccouncil transmitted to the Department in telegrem no. 132
of April 2s. Leaa) wes released to the press ot April 26. 1949. That
seme mernins Paare Mivister Yoe ioe pevlevea ta the Diet certain as-
peets of Jepanese re tretren Eie esplenetrons end my letter served
to foons attensiun cr repatrtetlen vruck commonded the bisgest news-
pley on koril er end prompted orree editrriale on April 29
While sdmattine that "Japan hes no veice in international matters".
Asahi peinted cut that "the zepetrtetien of Jepenese beld on foreign
soil is clerrly stapulated an the Potsdem declaretion" end that there-
fore open coa desae petr peparret Asshe ena Meshi con-
curred ar she de eye in peparpntien  epebese sros Sovlet areas
may bo dae  Soueet r pettey Aeahe et tedr "In view of the
eet ete n it  te imined
that the sovree Uue  trvaas wo stene unturned so fnerease pro
ducrio  tht reeat eur yeare hrve elspsed stnce the end of
hostilitmes. mowver. is it tot sneumbent uoen the Soviet Union to
repatriate alt vape tose hela ia her zones, regerdless ef difficulties
er ineenvenienaes intc ved?" Eesmisnt seld on thas peints "Rumors
pre spreadime that the  eent deley in the resumption of repatrie
tion is due t te teut tart the Sovaet Un on needs Japanese laber
in the smplemeaetion  hrr five yeer phee end beseuce of the tense
internetronal etaeton"
Jala Shampe declered chn: rEven af aatoal repatrieation is de-
layed if securate unfmation can be obteanea ree rdine these in
Seviet hussae. e aoxreties  te femties Left et home in Japan
would be somewhat rasened The reupes: mede ty Minister Sebeld to
Lt Generel Derevyanke for enfermatien on Jepenese prisoners of war
in the Seviet Unien m bo sad  seprevent the si cere wishes of
the ertire epanere peeple.
Resper taully yoss,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
Cloyce K. Huston
Counselor of Mission
S 631
AHaden emd
Parchment Mat to te Department
Copy to American Embassy. London
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.94)
THE PORSIGN SERVICE
#THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Action Taken K
12, 1949.
No。 304
M=+3L
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Date of Aotion
AcTtor. Uice Syabol
REC'D
Now: officer
wegruen
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 20
Subject
Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
ACTION
May 5, 1949.
FE
INFO
DCR
TOS
OI.I
The Honorable
894
GA
The Secretary of State,
ITF
Washington
L
9
Sir
6
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's despatch no. 269
of April 29, 1949, and to previous despatches on the above subject.
and to trensmit herewith a swmmary of Japenese newspaper reactions
for the week of Apr11 29 through May 5. 1949.
5
Summary
2
Negotiavions lerding to the Lifting of the Berlin blockade.
49
May Day. and Constitution Day on May 3 -- the anniversary of the
adcption cf the Japanese constitution  were the topics prompting
the largest volume cf editerial comment during the period under
review.
Berlin Bicckade
Several Tokyo newspapers devoted editorials to the negotiations
Looking te the lifting bi the bicckade of Berlin. The general bur-
den of comment was relief that the tens:on generated by the Soviet
blockade would be eased Mainichs censidered the Soviet decision
to lift the bieckede "vexy practical and wise" and ascribed this
Soviet move to the fact that the "balance of power in Euxope is
taking a turn faverablt te the Western pewers" due to the signature
of the North Atlant:s Pact and the agreement to establish a Western
German government Nahen Keiza: stated that the sonclusion of the
North Atlantis Pact had strengthened the Western powers and that
"at this Juncture. it would te gocd stretegy for the Soviet Union
tc take a peaceful attitade". Ji Shimpe credited the Berlin air-
lift with defeating the Sevier icckade but suspected that Soviet
willingness to lift it was a meve to bicc formation of the Western
German government.
Mey Day
May  .8
N
FILID
15 1949
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
DMR

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo': Despatch No. 304.
May 12, 1949.
- 2 -
May Dey as a "celebration of working people has been growing
in scope and spiendcr" according tc Asahi which found also that
"workers today are conscious of their freedom and independence.
Their attitude reflects their self-confidence that they are citi-
zens ci a democratic nation. .The Japanese working class is getting
closer :o the workers of western countries" Nihon Keisai observed
that "the conception of enterprisers and unions es arch-antagonists
1s being rep-acei by a new concept. in which enterprises and unions
are regarded as interdependert. In other words, union members are
gimming to real lize that the primery need is not to demand increased
wages  to preren ao ayel  r venctien of wages and to
keep dismissair t a mninus a te. that putting enterprises
on a sound tasis is a prerequisite fo: attaining that cbjective".
Tokve Slb stated ct misns have made large quantitative gaino
but doubted whether "qwelitative " the prcgress had been so heal thy.
"Expiciter  C amuni: ts, srade  ns have ccmmitted many excesses,
incivdire pi  mtrelt we e was once very much in vogie.
with r res i: at restrictiens ave teen placed upen the freedom
and atr  te ii  pas: experience trade unione
should reaitr how mash they heve leen expicited by Commanisto to
serve the iattor's own cris."
Yomur devoted twe consecuve elatorias to the constitution.
both soomya t fourd the: the pecpie "do nct fer that the connti-
titien han a come rr etacn to hetr hivee. This Lack of papuler
concern is attriritable to a genera  feeling that, despite the splen-
sid clauses in the new corsticut:m actuas politics remain corrupt
and irratioral, indicetine ne imprcvenent cver cond tiens under the
cid constivution Calline che conatitutier "hcllew" and deplorind
thet "basic human rights Leve t ac tua ly been cranted to the Jape-
nese". Yom stated "The new constitution is stiil no more than
a formality. udeine rom toe c eit stete cf affaire in Japan.
Politica. corruption ani urnreascnatle s cial customs are still preva-
lent. The senerai pubiic  s sviil indifferent to pelitics The
bureaucrats are not yet aole te dis ard formalities rcr can they work
without crdera from abere. The Communists are nothing but blind be-
Llevers in a singie fc: muia. Inteliectua's are alkative and flippant
and lack pdividuaiity ther respect things fereign simply tecause
they pre freign"
In  mtrast al ng wich most sther newapapera. Asahs took a more
cheerf ti . rew I: i wnd shat Article 9 wherety Japan renounced war.
"maces the conetitution histerscaliy imperlant" and hat ls is "based
in pacifisx". It callei for the people to "renew cu consciousnese
and zeai for werld peace ty putting cur trust in a conatitutlon which
is based on Pacifism"
Manh adviacd everyene  ceed the constitition "once or
twice. Sune may be surprised at the aifficult sentences in the pre-
amtie wherein the spiri: of the new vonatitution is wnmed up. Others
may feer a headathe on reading it tor the sesond time. However, this
is the oniy way for them to erasp the real meaning cf the constitution."
Jiji Shimpo cousidered that "we may te satisfied with the Japanese
people today who are enthusiasticaily making steady etrides toward the
democratization
UNCLASS DFIND (For Depa: tment Use Only)

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo s Despatch No. 304,
May 12, 1949.
-3-
des ratsatn  thenaven Prem the pest we yearst experience.
we are cemfient that the Japanese peeple will completely recreate
themselves n fave  tes years as they adi to their experienees.
Hasty criticisms iren abrcad do not encourage the Japanese people in
their efferts to achiere true demecrary." Nihon Keizai opposed hasty
revisions
"No amsunt of tampering with individuai clauses while
disregaraing the sundamental spirit would be of much avail. And
there is no reom for revisien with respect to demecracy and pacifism.
whach conetitute the spiret of cur new constetution."
hespectfullr yours.
Clyce K. Euston
Cherge d Affaires ad interim
632
AHeden gmd
Parchment Ma te the Departmest
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
A1312

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
F
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATE OF AMIRICA
United States Pclitical Adviser
for Japan
IyDIVISION QF 1949.
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Date of Action
No. 311
MAY 2 11949
REC'D
MAY 20
Subjert. Japanese Newspaper Reactions for the Week Ending
May 12, 1949.
ACTION
FE
894.91
I.O
The Honorable
FR
The Secretary of State,
D0R
Washingten.
POS
OLI
Sir
IC
GA
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's despatch no.
LTP
304 of hay 12, 1949, and to previous despatches on the above
OFD
subject and to transmit. herewith a summary of Japanese newspaper
5
EUR
reartions to current events for the peried of Mey 6 through
-1449
May 12, 1949.
Sumary
m
Newspaper treatment of news showed no definite pattern during
the week under review but covered a wide variety of topics. Best
single news play was gven to the United States presentation of
Its views to the Far Eastern Commission on the quest ion of Japanese
participation in int ernational conferences, thus demonstrating
widespread int erest, though prompting only two editorials in small
cir:ulation dailies. Prospects of lifting the Berlin blcckade
ranked second among foreign stories. The coal strike and the
arrival of Dr. Carl W. SHOUP in Teky to review the Japanese taxa-
tior syst em were the domestic stories played most prominently.
Japanoce Participation in International Conferences
Yukan Chugai applauded the presentation of the United States
views to the Far Easten Cemmission on the relaxation of rules
governing Japanese part!cipation in international conferences.
This daily
UNC LASSTFTED
FILED
FAP
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 311.
May 14, 1949.
-2
This daily found that "in order to lay the foundation for an un-
shakable world peace based cn the readjusted postwar relations
between the nations of the world, we judge it to be a democratic
move and a wise pcliey to have Japan's ideas and wishes reflected
in international affairs." It recognized that "some member nations
of the Far Eastern Commission are not pleased" but considered that
the day would come when this "fair and sound move of the United
States" would be understood. Nihon Keizai made the telling point
that having been out of touch with the world for so long the Jap-
anese viewpoint had become "narrow and distorted" and that "if we
understand how each natien in the werld is struggling against
economic difficulties we shall realize how important our responsi-
bility is." Admitting that the opposition of certain member nations
within the Far Eastern Commission "is not necessarily incomprehensible
to us", this newspaper considered that the United States proposal
was made in reccgnition of Japan s efforts to become a "peaceful.
cultural and demccratic nation as set forth in the new Constitution."
Ycmiuri placed a broader interpretation on the presentation cf
the United States views to the Far Eastern Ccmmission than did its
contemporaries, since it linked them with the Iifting cf the Berlin
blockade, fer the sake of restoring the world's trade. "Hew agnificant
this new international atmosphere is to Japan, nich is laboring to
attain a self sufficient econcmy as its major goal, nee not be re-
iterated" it said. and pointed out that self sufficieney for Japan
means obtaining through exports sufficient funds to pay for imports
of food and raw materials. It then said boldly:
"The difficulty of this task under existing conditiens is not
fully realized by the public. In addition to focd imports,
nearly half c: the presently impcrted industrial materials
is paid for by the United States taxpayer. If a major part
of this aid is diverted to the production of consumer goods .
through lack of planning -- and economic revival in the proper
sense of the word is not promoted, the United States taxpayer
will naturally become doubtful as to the effests of his burden.
We, too, should not expect that such aid will be given for long.
"The report that the United States Gevernment, which attaches the
greatest importance to the attainment of Japanese self-sufficiency,
is preparing a new phase of Occupation policy affords an important
hint on this peint, regardless of whether it is related to the
new intemational atmosphere or not. Free participation in
international economic egreements is not an immediate possibility.
However, joining the Intemational Monetary Fund will be realized
bafore long. If this is realized, credits from the World Bank will
come up for discussion."
Berlin Blockade
Most editcrials agreed that the lifting of the Berlin blockade
UNCLASSIFIED
and the

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 311,
May 14, 1949.
-3
and the forth coming meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers
will have consi lerable ffect towards easing the int ernational
tension but felt that predictions concerning its final results
would be premature Five editorials on Mey 7. however, touched
on the effect of the Council of Foreign Minist ers on conditions
in the Far East.
Mainichi speculated that Soviet policy cased its position in
Europe in order to coneentrate on the Far East and quoted Le Figaro
of Peris as believing that, demanding free hand in the Far East,
the Seviet Union weuld seek to m ke Cernany a neut ral zone between
it self and the West. Mainichi dup ored this view: "We cannot bring
our selves to support this predictio.. It imuld mean i surrender on
the part of the democracies." Nihon heizai doubted whether the
apparent Seviet comperat ion means any "h-arty cooperation" with the
West, since much cooperatien would be "a ifficult matter so long
as the Soviet Union dees not change its ulti nate objective."
Jiji Shimpe considered that "as a result of the remarkable
advance of the Chinese Conaunists. the Sovi ets may step the cold war
in Europx to concentrate on Asia." It did not, however, consider
that prospects for a peace treaty with Jap an would be improved even
if the Concil of Fereign inisters should egree cn a German peace
treaty. In contrast, Tokye Shimbun considered the lifting of the
Berlin blockade a "turning point in the intermational ituation" and
felt tha! chances for a Japanese peace treaty are improved. "The
remark able coamunist advances in China Mean the expansion of Russian
influence vithout involving any risks....There is a possibility that
the sudden change in the Russian attitude will affest the Far Eastern
situation. What is important is how the relationship between Russia
and the Chinese Comnunists will affect the latter : foreign policy in
the future. Foreign Minist er Evatt of Australia indicated that the
recent Big Four agreeaent would ease the way towards a peace conference
with Japan and Jeraany. Since the sudden change in te Russian atti-
tude i partly attributatle to the advance of the Chinese Communists,
the Japanese problem will again be taken up by the Allies." Shin
Yukan also linked a Ger an peace treaty with a Japanese peace treaty:
"If a peace treaty is c neluded for vesterm Europe, including Germany,
a peece treaty may be possible for Japan toe, and enable her to be-
cone an indepe lent nation....It is unieniable that the amicable
solution of tr Berlin prcblem wdil create favorable conditions for
Japan, boti di ectly and indirectly."
Coal Strike
Failure to settle the st rike in Japan's coal mires led by the
Japan League of Ccal Mine Morkers Union (JLC.wU) elicited expressions
of concern froa trree newspapers, who sll discussed the question from
the standpoint
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despat ch No. 311,
May 1:, 1949.
-4
the anipoint of th ubli: interet, nd ended by disapproving
the osition of the labor union. The is ute between mine owners
and he JLCMvU revelves around e coaplie ed basic wage formula
relate' he quantity c? coal mined and its caloric con ent.
Yomuri stat ed inviewing the : "Judging from the present
coal miners: strikes, e cannot hel, Iit note regretfully that the
LClaU does not sufficiently understand the general economic situa-
tion of Japan. However, ve are very anxdous that capital and labor
shall reach the best possitle settlement of the dispute within the
fremeork of the duties placed c: the coal industry" (to produce
42, 00,000 tons during 1949). If the dispute is not adequately
settled Yomiuri feared that "the result would he that either the
coal mining industry would be left behind in the progress of Jap-
anese economy or that a revixion of the Nine Economic Principles
(for economic stabilizatjon) would be needed, thus making the
maint enance of the exchange rat e impossible."
Nihon Keiza! deplcred the f: tt the tw 'u walkout during
early May. a! two mre jays walhout scheduled y the JuCMWU in
addition to non-working Sundays, would mean a decrease of 800,000
tons in the May production goals. Using the argunent that failure
to produce mough coal endangers the Economic Stabilizat ion Program,
it pleaded with the JLCwU to "forget the past and, through con-
sideration of the general situetion, try to fint a sclution to the
dispute." Hochi Shimbun (whic is connected with Yomiuri) concurred
broact in consideriru thst "t.e demand: of the wor ers union appear
entirely unjustifi bl. These demands iht been complied with
a year ago. But now nditians have changed. e JiCiivu should be
full con scious of the present economic status of the nation."
Shoup Tax Mission
Reorganization of the taxation syst em in Japan was recognized
by most editorialists as the preferalle way of eliminating inequalities
in laxation and possibly li htening the burden. Yukan Chugai put the
problem succ inetly: "If tax dodging can be prevented, it will be
possible to lighten tie lax burden os the general piblic by raising
the minimum taxable. d th de ndut exe t ions in the income
tex schedules, and b lovering e es. In short, in the proposed
rovlsion of the tax s'ste, it is i"ertant to qualize the burden."
Nihon Keiza1 adopted a philosophizing approach. "Opinion varies
on whather the existin: taxation system is capitalistic or anti-
cupitalistic. Wh: p nion Doctor Shoup will express in this regard
demand: our greelest ! ntion." Its analysis of the present taxation
system llamed the curr -over into the postwar of prewar methods. "The
old progressive inaome tax rates winich were adopted in rewer days when
income was net eveni li stributed, still apply today vin income is
almost equal ized. C. sequently, the incentive to earn has been de..
creased and the eccmuliat ion of capilal hindered, since work perforaed
above : certain
UNC:ASCIFIED

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 311,
May 14, 1949.
-5-
above a certain level results in only a negligible inerement of
income. It is cnly natural to give socialistic consideration to
the capitalistic tax system. The fundamental cause of the con-
fusion in the present taxation system is that it is net based
on clear-cut ideas."
Jiji Shimpo compared income taxes before and after the war.
"In 1930 a man with an annual income of 1,500 yen (about 500.00)
per year paid an income tax of only nine yen, or 0.6 per cent of
his income. The sum of 1, 500 yen in 1930 may be compared with
372,030 yen in 1949, on the basis of price indices, and the income
tax on this sum, under the present system, would be a little more
than 135, 200 yen, or 36.3 per cent of the total income." In partial
explenation of this phenomenon, Jiji Shimpo stated that property
taxes which formerly supplied 24 per cent of the total income had
declined to 2.3 per cent of the total.
Mainichi listed several points which it considered needed the
attention of the group of tax experts led by Doctor Shoup. It
listed as first consideration the charge that "the current tax
obligations are too heavy", second, that "while the tax rates in
force are generally exorbitant" a more important element is the
smoothing out of the ineguities of assessment whereby salaried
persons pay their taxes through deductions at the source while
"scoundrels" evade them, third, a clean-up among tax offices and
the elimination of corrupt tax collectors, a situation which it
called "correctable". Tokyo Shimbun emphasized the argument that
present graduated tax rates discourage initiative. "The imposition
of the graduated income tax system under which only a slight profit
can be made beyond a certain income level will discourage an in-
dividual:s will to work." Most editorialists were careful to point
out that any revision of the tax rates must take into account the
commitments of the Government to its halanced budget and its ob-
ligations under the Economic Stabilization Program.
Respectfully yours,
Clnutni
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
631
AHaden:hh
Parchment Mat to Department.
Copy to American Embassy,
London.
UNCLASSIFTED
01313

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
nod to N
→RAF
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Haactain
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF United States Folitical Adviser
Dute of Action
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
for Japan
Action Office Symbol
JUN 1 0 1949
Tokyo May 31, 1949.
RAt
lume of officer
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Direotion to DC/R
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
Sub ject:
Jaisn  ws aper Reactions for the Week Ending
May le 1949.
REG'D
JUN
6
ACTION
FE
The Honorable
Secretery of State.
IN O
Washington
DCR
69
OLI
Sir:
POS
4
QFD
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's despatch
no. 31l of May 14 l946 and to irevious despatches on the0
above subject and to transmit herewith a summary of Japa-—
nese newsialer revctions to current events for the period-
of May 13 through May 19. 1645.
C
Summary
5
Sus ension of reparat lons as  roposed by the United 
States to the Far Eastern Comnission, reform of the tax
system expected es e result of the mission in Tokyo
649
headed by Dr Carl  shou end reo, ening of the stock
exchange enlisted the overwhe ming bulk of editorial at-
tention on a buoyant note uf optimish.
Halt of Reparatlons
The statement of the Unitel states reiresentative on
the Far Eastern Commission was carried in full in Jiji
Shimpo. serialized in the Mippon Times, and fully summa-
rized in the other Tokyo newsieiers. Prominent play was
given to swift local reactions such as thet of +he Director
General of the Japanese Government"s oard of Reparations
that his interpretation. pending official clarification,
was that the susiension reconmendation of the United States
applied not only to the thirty per cent interim reparations
program hut to reparatious as a whole; and to the Economic
Stabiliz tion Board's view that production would increase
while costs and government subsidies declined.
Asahi said that the Japanese people "greeted with
great joy this step of the United States" and described
it as an "extremely effective contribution to economic
stability
A
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
P
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 352,
May 31, 1949.
2-
stability and industrial recovery". It balanced its
optimism by concluding that in its turn "Japan must
speedily achieve independence and must strive to liqui-
date as scon as ossible the economic burdens shouldered
by the Amer can people". Mainichi stated that settlement
of the reparations problem was a "prerequisite to the eco-
nomic independence of Jaian", a point on which Tokyo Shim-
bun concurred The latter considered that this move was
another of the "conditions favorable to Japenese self-suf-
ficiency". Hochi Shimbun while gratified at this "rain
foll wing drought" considered that the cancellation of
refarations would "uncover the latent difficulties" faced
by the Japanese economy nd that it would Provide the op-
fortunity to study the future Jaranese industrial struc-
ture. Yomiuri made the same  oint and stated:
"For the immediate purposes. the removal of restric-
tions upon peaceful industries has a greater meaning
than susiension of the removel of factories on the
refarations list. The rosd to full-scale operation
of designated factories will be opened only when it
is linked with the unrestricted developmentof peace-
ful industries Cur next problem will be how to es-
tablish the new industrial structure without con-
cerning ourselves exclusively with the relief of
bankrupt enterprises."
Nihon Keizai considered that the suspension of repara-
tions will affect each enteririse in e different manner,
some, for instence increesing prcduction immediately while
others will need to make preliminary repairs. It said:
"Because of the prevailing tight money situation, various
difficulties are anticipated in raising funds for repairs
and operation. However, enterprises with designated facto-
ries can now frame reconstruction and adjustment programs"
though it considered that the lack of ready quantities of
raw materials would still militate against rapid increases
in industrial output. Kogyo Shimbun ("Industrial Newspaper")
noted and deprecated the immediate hullishness in machinery
and heavy industry stocks folloviny the announcement, since
it considered that the supply of mechinery now available from
war industries will depress the market for new machinery.
Tax Reform
Three points were made releatedly in editorial discus-
sions of taxes and the reforms in the Japanese taxation
system expected of the Shoup mission now here: first, that
inequities of tax levies be smoothed out, as a result of
which it was anticipated that taxes will be lightened; sec-
ond, in addition to personal income taxes, corporate taxes
need attention; third, corruption - whether by tax dodgers
or tax collectors -- must be eliminated.
A number of subordinate considerations were advanced,
however, together with these more important factors which
have already
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 352,
May 31, 1949.
- 3 -
have already been noted in the despatch under reference.
Yomiuri stated rather sadly that "mitigation of the gen-
eral tex burden depends upon the government's efforts to
minimize exrenditure". It also delivered a blistering
attack on taxes levied on admissions to museums, zoos,
plays, moving pictures: and on books. It stated: "Under
the circumstances, the 'cultural state' may cynically be
referred to as a miserable state. The creation of high
admission taxes to state and science museums is unreason-
able conduct unparelleled in world history. At present,
the United Nations Economic, Social and Cultural Organiza-
tion is trying to ease international postal rates on books
and publications. However, overnment officials in Japan
do not appreciate the value of books and publications. As
much as baseball and other sports, publications, plays,
cinema. arts, and music should be encouraged by the govern-
ment. But the Japanese Government is hampering their de-
velopment by levying ad taxes on them. Under the circum-
stances, this nation can be regarded as nothing more than
a poor and barbarous state completely devoid of noble
sentiments."
Asahi brought up the question of adequate enforcement
of taxation laws and their reform and enactment, while Jiji
Shimpo hoped that Dr. Shoup would study the "peculiarities
of the Japanse economy". Mainichi recommended that local
finances and the duplication of taxation for national and
local purposes be thorougnly examined, while Asahi pointed
out that community property taxation schedules should take
into account that in Japan the parents of married couples
often live with their children; it added: "In revising
our taxation system, our family system may become involved
to such an extent as to complicate the issue."
Stock Exchange Reopening
Nihon Keizai considered the reopening of the stock
exchange, closed since August 1945, as a "step forward on
the path to economic normalcy" and defined the exchange's
function as the protection of the investing public. Asahi
concurred that the exchange was designed to protect the
"conservative investor" and emphasized that speculative
transactions are discouraged by the present Securities
Transactions Law. Jiji Shimpo felt that the stock exchange
exercises constant supervision over the operation of pri-
vate business, a function which it believed could not be
exercised by government.
Respectfully yours,
1.
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad inter im
Parchment Mat to Department
361
AHaden:gmd
UNCLASSIFIED (For Department Use Only)
