894.512 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Taxation. Processing Tax. For Treaties, Conventions, Arrangements, Ect., Add Country Number, Using Smaller Number Of Country For **., July 8, 19 (File 1820)
ID: 894.512-1820   Pages: 90   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.512-financial-conditions-budget-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
Office of the U. S. Political Advir
for Japan
2xπs
Tokyo, July 8, 1949.
48755
DRVISION OF FANCIAL AFFAIRS
No. 439
REC'D
JULY 15
JUL 681949
RESTRICTED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION
OFD
Subject: Opinions of American Chamber of Commerce on
INFO
Japanese Taxation of Commercial Entrants.
FR
DCR
ITP
OLI
COM
The Chargé d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to refer to
TREAS
this Mission's despatch no. 417 dated June 28, 1949, and tranmit-
FRB
ting a copy of a memorandum on the subject of uJapanese Taxation
894.512/7-849
TAR
of Commercial Entrants," prepared by Mr. Henry SHAveLL' Deputy
Chief, Internal Revenue Division, Economic and Scientific Section
(ESS), General Headquarters, SCAP.
1/
There is now enclosed a copy of a letter dated June 27, 1949,
addressed to Mr. L. H. MOSS, Chief of the ESS Internal Revenue
Division, by Mr. Leo H. CHAMBERLAIN, Acting President of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Japan, containing comment on Mr. Shavell'
memorandum under reference. Mr. Chamberlain states that he cemsd-
dered Mr. Shavell's memorandum "to be, on the whole, a very reasem
able, fair and lucid presentation of the problem and of possible
courses of action that may be taken by SCAP and the Japanese Govern-
ment to arrive at an equitable solution."
Commenting on his letter to an officer of this Mission, Mr.
Chamberlain, who is Resident Vice President of the National City
Bank of New York in charge of the Tokyo branch of that Bank, stated
that he felt that his comments might be considered by Ess to be al-
together destructive rather than constructive. Careful reading of
Hr. Chamberlain's letter, suggests that the contrary is the case,
the comments generally being fair and based upon extended prewar
banking experience in Japan. Mr. Shavell, asked to comment on this
point, stated to the officer of this Mission that he was very happy
to receive Mr. Chamberlain's comments, with which he felt obliged
to disagree only in relatively minor matters.
2/
Also enclosed is a copy of a letter dated June 28, 1949, sent
by Mr. Chamberlain to Major General W. F. MARQUAT, Chief, ESS, 
FILED
the subject "Internal Revenue Taxes; Customs Duties." Whereasio
Mr. Chamberlain's letter to Mr. Moss of June 27 represented largely
his own views, the letter of June 28 to General Marquat present
the opinions of a committee of the Chamber.
64
Finally,
RESTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A MOTATION OF AOTION TAE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo!s Despatch. No. 439,
Ju1y 8, 1949.
3/
Finally, there is enclosed a copy of another letter from Mr
Chamberlain to General Marquat, this being dated June 30, 1949.
in which the former brings up the question of income tax comven-
tions of the type negotiated by the United States Govermment with
tp
several countries as worthy of study in so far as Americans in
Japan are concerned.
Double
Enclosures: att
1/ Copy of letter dated June 27, 1949,
from Mr. Chamberlain to Mr. Moss;
2/ Copy of letter dated June 28, 1949,
from Mr. Chamberlain to General Marquat;
3/ Copy of letter dated June 30, 1949,
from Mr. Chamberlain to General Marquat.
Copies to: American Embassy, London
American Consulate General, Shanghai
American Consulate. General, Hong Kong
Parchment mat to the Department.
501.2
CHBoehringer:lee
RESTRICTED

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949, from the Office of the
U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Opinions of
RESTRICTED
American Chamber of Commerce on Jap-
anese Taxation of Commercial Entrants"
(COPY)
June 27, 1949
Mr. L. H. Moss, Chief
Internal Revenue Division
Economic & Scientific Section
GHQ, SCAP
Re Japanese Taxation of Commercial Entrants
Dear Mr. Moss:
I have to thank you for a copy of Mr. Shavell's memorandum on
the subject of Japanese Taxation of Commercial Entrants and for the
opporounity to comment thereon.
In this letter I shall avail myself of your invitation and sub-
mit such comments as occur to me.
First, however, let me say that I consider the memorandum to be,
on the whole, a very reasonable, fair and lucid presentation of the
problem and of possible courses of action that may be taken by SCAP
and the Japanese Government to arrive at an equitable solution. Let
me add also that I am glad, and relieved to have the information
contained in this memorandum. It is an effective answer to some of
the current complaints of commercial entrants and, if made public,
should stop some of the rumours now circulating in business ciroles.
I want to urge that you let me release it, in its entirety, to the
membership of the American Chamber of Commerce. As you perhaps know,
many of our members have criticized severaly an apparent tendency on.
the part of Occupation Officials to consider and decide matters of
vital interest to the foreign business community in secrecy and with-
out reference to those most concerned and affected. Prior reference
and discussion would, I am convinced, prevent much misunderstanding
and bad feeling on both sides.
Since I have not felt free to discuss this particular memorandum
with others, you will understand that the specific comments that fol-
low are very largely my own. Some are mattemmof facts and some are
quite frankly statements of conjecture and opinion. I believe, how-
ever, that on the whole, they represent a consensus of American busi-
ness circles in Tokyo.
The sub-headings used refer to paragraphs in Mr. Shavell's
memorandum.
Paragraph 3: Last sentence reads "The high effective rate of
taxation
does appear to constitute adequate cause. for
besitancy
RESTRICTED

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclomure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-2-
hesitancy by potential foreign investors". There can be no qeestiem
about this. The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Nearly four
years after V- Day and, so far as I kmow, not yet one single foreiga
investment of any significance. A few banks, trading concerns, in-
surance companies, etc. operating almost wbolly outaide the Japanese
economy, to be sure, but mamufacturing and industrial conoerns, mo.
There are doubtless other contributory reasons why they do not show
more active interest in this field, but taxation is the principal one.
Some of them doubtless remember vividly how they were taxed and #regu-
lated" out of this market in the years just prior to the war and have
no intention of exposing themselves to such risk a second time. Let
me illustrate by the experience of The National City Bank brancbes in
Japan, four of them. Up to 1937 we had a reasonably profitably bumi-
ness in Japan (though even then the profit was not commensurate with
the volume of business and the risks involved). From then on, how-
ever, taxation took a larger and larger share of gross income until
we arrived at a point where $10,000 per annum per branch represented
the effective maximm profit possible under existing tax rates, and
we we e able to give our Japanese employees a bonus of a year's palary
at a cost to the Bank of about 10 percent of the amount involved. It
was right about here that we started closing branches. Other foreign
firms duplicated our experience.
What is the post war answer? I know of none exdept the reali-
sation by the Japanese that foreign business and foreign capital con-
tribute to their economy and a demonstrated willingness on their part
to encourage foreign investment by reasonable, perhaps by some stan-
dards more than reasonable, tax and other concessions. I would like
to add, too, that in my opinion, such concessions, before they afe
effective, will have to be more than merely "non discriminatory".
The fact that high taxes, personal as well as corporate, are non-
discriminatory does not make them anymore attractive to foreign busd-
nessmen.
Paragraph 4: I might say here that pre-war the Japanese never
did make an issue of collecting income taxes on U.S. dollar (or other
foreign currency). personal incomes. I think they realised then and
still realize the practical difficulties of collecting such taxes.
By and large, and to the best of my knowledge and belief, only -
ployees of Banks and other large interestsin Japan, declared their
dollar incomes and in those cases their employers usually assumed
part or all of the tax burden.
With reference to the last sentence of this paragraph I think
you might add that if the foreign national concerned happened to be
a branch or subsidiary of an American concern American taxes would
further reduce his net return for while American tax laws make some
allowance for tames paid abroad such allowances is by no means suf-
ficient to compensate for total foreign tax payment. I kmow of one
American concern that is presently discontinuing its business in India
(where taxes are almost as high as in Japan) for this very reasen.
Paragraph 5:
RESTRICTED

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Emclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-3-
Paragraph 5: Customs and Taxes on Imported Goods. For various
reasons and from more than one point of view I wonder if this subjeet
is not being assigned an importance and significance out of all rela-
tion to its relative size. Important to the individual, yes, and for
that reason ill considered action might generate considerable resent-
ment, but from the point of view of revenue and the overall tax pro-
gram, of such minor importance as to be negligible. After all we are
considering here only the small marginal importations of personal
necessities and luxuries of a handful of foreign nationals. Dmported,
I may say, not because they want to, but because the merchandise is
unavailable or at best very high priced in the domestic economy: (I,
myself, do considerable by mail buying from Sears Roebuck - something
I never did before the war. I would willingly pay conaiderably more
if I could buy the same things or satisfactory substitutes here and
avoid the extra trouble and red tape of personally importing them.)
Suppose everything consumed by this handful offoreign nationals
is ir.ported free of custcms duties (which is by no means the case).
would the revenue thereby "lost" by the Japanese Government be of mmch
significance as compared to their overall revenue requirements? I
doubt it. I doubt it, and I wonder if the Japanese Government offi-
cials are not of a similar opinion and for that reason have displayed
little enthusiasm for enforcing existing customs laws against foreign
nationals. For my money they are, in the long run, smart in not en-
forcing them. In their position they need all the goodwill they can
get, and who can say this is not one of the cheapest and best ways
of getting it.
In this connection, drawing on prewar experience, I might ay
that in the years when the Japanese Government was "officially" un-
cooperative, to say the least, it was even then quite usual to allow
foreign nationals to import personal requirements without payment of
customs duties, with the one single exception of tobacco. As late
as October l941, believe it or not, I personally imported a varied
list of foodstuffs (then difficult to obtain locally) clothing and
other personal requirements valued, as I recall, in excess of U.S.
$1,000.- and was assessed no customs duty whatever. And on many
occasions I have imported reasonable amounts of liquor without duty.
I mention this because I believe it evidence that the Japanese
authorities themselves realized that their official rates of cus-
toms duties  imposed primarily to prevent the Japanese public
from indulging in imported "luxuries" -- would, if levied against
foreigners used to an entirely different standard of living, result
in little revenue but plenty of resentment and illwill.
Paragraph 8: This paragraph points out that "Because the ap-
plication of (existing) customs duties and internal taxes would pro-
bably create unfavorable criticism...........the Japanese have here-
tofore preferred to ignore enforcement of these laws". This is un-
doubtedly true but not, new. They have long known it and, to a greater
RESTRICTED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-4-
or lesser extent, have long pursued the same policy - see comment
in previous paragraph.
Parag aph 8 continues to say that although both the Finance
and Intornal Revenue Divisions of ESS have repeatedly pointed out
to Japanese officials the advantages of immediate downward revision
of tariffs "they quite naturally would like to defer revisions in
their tariff laws until the post treaty period when they will be in
a more advantageous position to utilize tariff cuts as bargaining
aids in obtaining trade agreements with other nations".
What's wrong with this point of view? Frankly, as a layman,
it seems like good business sense to me. I think I would take the
same position were I in their place. As the memorandum says "Japan
requires little in the way of protective tariff. From a revenue
standpoint Japan can afford to drastically slash tariff rates and
not significantly affect tariff revenue potentials". Up to now the
tariff rates are net being enforced therefore, as far as I can see,
foreign nations exporting to Japan have little or no cause for com-
plaint. Very possibly since imports on the whole will doubtless
continue to be restricted to raw and other materials necessary to
the Japanese econcmy they will not be enforced fcr a long time to
come. Since the Japanese can, from a revenue standpoint, afford to
drastically slash tariff rates, they can by the same token, afford
to disregard existing rates if it suits their long range purpose to
do sc. At the same time the rates, being on the books, can, if nece-
sary, be enforced quickly and without legislative action, against a
recalcitrant nation in the post treaty period. What's wrong with
this reasoning? To me, a laymar., it seems a reasonable point of
view to take..
High tariff rates on the personal requirements of a few foreign
nationals resident in Japan are another matter. They, the Japanese,
may well be avoiding enforcement of these rates for entirely dif-
ferent - though equally practical - reasons.
Paragraph 9: Here and in Paragraph 10 we must question the ac-
curacy of the facts and figures quoted by the memorandum. Referring
to "some eight or nine commercial entrants" recently authorized to
engage in retail business in Japan the circular says "Information
now reaching this office reveals that the initial imports of these
new concerns are largely made up of cigarettes and liquor. One com-
pany alone, the Williams International, has imported from 4,000 to
5,000 cases of American cigarettes. It is probable that some 10,000
cases of cigarettes have been, or are in the process of being shipped
to Japan for resale by these new concerns."
This writer has no information as to the amount of liquor on
order or enroute but would make this observation. This is not & new
development. These companies have been shipping liquor to Japan,
principally for consumption by occupation personnel - through Army
and
RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure
Tokyoº: Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-5-
and Air Force clubs - for sometime past, three years at least. th
only change involved new is that they propose to give their clients
better service by selling ex godcwn in Japan instead of merely taking
orders for shipment from American and other foreign ports. A typleal
illustration of the "American system" in operation and how consumers
benefit by free competition. And the consumers in this case, be it
noted, are largely occupation personnel. If high customs duties are
levied against liquor imported by these concerns it will merely mean
that this service cannot be extended to Occupation clubs and that they
must continue to import direct.
So far as cigarettes are concerned, this writer is of the opinion
that the importance cf the matter has been over emphasised. and that
the figures quoted are inaccurate. I can cnly assume that the figures
as to quantities imported and to be imported were compiled from re
ports of impcrt licenses issued. If this assumption is correct, it
must be pointed cut that application for a license to import does not
necessarily mean tha: the liceref, if approved, will be utilized. In
this particular case I have personally questioned most of the im-
porcers (will see the rest as opportunity offers) and have found that
not a single case f cigarettes has been imperted or even ordered by
those questicned. (Griffith did sell 1 200 ases to O.S.S. Another
is trying to make a deal with the P.X.) Williams International does
have a license for 4. Co0 cases but has not used it and has no present
intention cf using it. The general opinion among the importers is that
cigarettes are "tnc hot to handle". As one importer put it, "Do you
think I'm crazy? I have enough troubles without coping with the
C.I.D.
Paragraph : "The resale or tarter of American sigarettes in
the Japanese market sts the Japanese Geverrment untold millions, if
not billions <f yen in revenue." "For every carton of American cigar
ettes reaching Japanese smokers, ths Japanese Covernment loses a po-
tential profit f at leas I coo yen." These statements must be ques
tioned. Does the Tntexnal Revenue Division have any figures as to the
quantity of Ameri an cigarettes rescld or bartered in the Japanese
market? I doubt it, but if they do their information should also re
veal the fact that sollecting a s5% sustoms duty on the cigarettes
sold to non-oceupation perscnnel will not change the situation.
I have no information egarding Monopoly Bureau profits on
cigarettes, but I must question the I. oco yen figure. To the best
of my knowledge and belief the popular "Hikari" brand eells for 50
yen per package cf 10 cigarettes. Equivalent to 1,0o0 yen a carton.
The more expersive, and nct popular, "Peace" brand, 60 yen per package.
It is probatly conservative to say that the average selling price, not
profit, is not more than 1,C00 yan per carton. Actual profit could no
doubt be ascertained. Based on nothing more than conjectur, my guess
is that it does nct exceed 400 yen per carton.
Profits
RESTRICTED

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclcsure No. 1 to
Tokye patch o. 439.
July 8, 1949.
-6-
Profits 1948/9 Yen 95 billion
80 million people, of which
20 million smckers
One carton per month per smoker
240 million cartons
At 400 yen per carton - Yen 96 billion
If these figures are somewhere near correct and if the poten-
tial revenue on igarettes sold to non-occupation personnel still
amounts to a significant figure, then it seems to me a reasonable,
and not difficult, remedy would be to slap a 400 yen revenue stamp
on each carton if and when imported for non-occupation consumption.
This would bring the consumer cost up to around 27 cents per package.
My guess is that the average smoker would pay that without much ob-
jection but would resent being forced to pay four dollars or more
per carton. (I know of at least cne smoker that would resent it
enough to give up smoking - perhaps a good thing. There are doubt-
less others.)
Paragraph l: Just fr the resord, whiskey and other foreign
liqt rs of high alaohclic wentent have never competed seriously with
sake and beer in the Japanese market. The Japanese are not whiskey
drinkers. True a bottle or a ase r twe can be sold here and there
by searching out the exception to the general rule. But in any large
quantity, no. I suggest that of the liquor presently being imported
for both occupation and  ommercial personnel only a very small per-
centage indeed trickles int: the black market and that the potential
loss of revenue t the Japanese government through its competition
with tax paid Japanese liqucr is infinitesimal.
Paragraph l2: This paragraph seems to confliet with paragraph
6. The one says that the apanese Government "desires to impose ap-
plicabie customs and internal taxes on Oss imports and all other non-
occupation imperts". The other implies that they do not want to im-
pose such taxes
Paragraph 13: Iny sible Exports. "To exempt such goods from
taxatfon wculd discriminate ggainst apanese merchants who sell the
same commodities in lusive of tax." What commodities? The OSs, as
far as I can see sells a few indigenous foed products (also sold by
Japanese merchants) for foreign currency at prices sonsiderably higher
than those qucted in Japanese market s. Food products are not subject
to taxes. The few other indigenous products they sell are, so far as
I know. items that are reserved for export and are either not avail-
able to the Japanese or are available only in the black market. Rugs
and textiles for instance. Where is the competition? To one on the
outside locking in, it would appear that while ESs officials work
night and day trying to expand Japan's exports, the Japanese Goverment
is, in this case at least, deliberately opposing their efforts. Let
it be said here that anything, including perishable goods, purchased
by occupation or commercial perscnnel for foreign currency is as much
an export as is an immediate FOB or CIF shipment to San Francisco and
should
RESTRICTED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 c
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-7-
should be as eagerly desired by the Japanese Government. I kmow
of no better way to kill this market than to impose high Japanese
consumption taxes on it. For example, I recently placed an order
for two rugs. They looked like good rugs - something I might take
home in due course and use for many years to come: At the export
price I figured I could pay transportation and, if necessary,
American customs duties on them and still have a reasonable purchase.
In the meantime I culd use them in Japan. Sometime after placing
the order, however, I was informed that 40 percent would have to be
added to the price to cover consumption tax. (Unless I could "get
a colonel to buy them for me".) This changed the picture completely.
The rugs were nc longer a reasonable purchase. The order was can-
celled. Japan loses the sale for foreign exchange, and I do without
rugs.
The argument that tax free sales in dollars compete with or
discriminate against tax paid sales in yen is completely fallacious.
Any sale of indigenous products in dollars is in effect an export -
the-= is no getting around it. The seller is just as much an ex-
porter as if he tock the merchandise to the port and loaded on board
a ship. He dces not compete with the domestic market. If invisible
exports should be taxed, then all exports should be taxed.
If, in spite of their official and public propaganda to the of-
fect that Japan must export to live the Japanese Government is oo con-
cerned about the invisible export program being discrimination, then
the natural reartion is "Let them stew in their own juice. What are
we wasting our time and the taxpayer's money for."
Paragraphs 14 and 15: No cmment.
Paragraph 16: "Such concerns as Barclay & Co., Williams Inter-
national, Dodwell & Co., and others, are in competition with Jap-
anese firms who are taxable, except for the fact that the former sell
for dellar instrumerts while the latter sell for yen currency. . This
is clearly a xase f extension of extra-lerritoriality rights by ScAp."
This paragraph alst states that "A sort of :twilight zonet has come
into existence., encompassing bcth Occupation and Japanese internal
activities".
Sales of imported merchandise compete with the domestic market
only insofar as the same preducts or acceptable substitutes are avail
able in the domestic market. By and large they are not available and
therefore little competition, and little loss of potential tax re-
venue to the Japanese Government. As for sales of indigenous products
for dcllars, the resulting foreign exehange should, of course, acerue
to the benefit of the Japanese economy. If this is the case — and
it's merely a matter of apprcpriate controls and bookkeeping to en-
sure that it is the case — then such sales amount to exports and
should be encouraged like any other export. If the foreign exchange
accrues to the Japanese Goverrment, which it should under current re-
gulations, the merchant is in effect being paid in yen. If he makes
a yen profit the Government will take half or more of that profit
away from him in taxes..
Paragraph 17: This paragraph mentions the complications of al-
locating dollar expenses to yen earnings in order to arrive at

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
equitable figure of net yen taxable profit, and cites as examples
publishing houses, news agencies, motion pictures and. foreign banks
In the case of concerns whose income is wholly or largely in yen,
and be it noted, whose operations result in a profit, such allocatión
is necessary and justifiable. Otherwise apparent net yen profits.
would be grossly exaggerated. In most cases, however, there should.
be nothing particularly complicated about making an equitable allo
cation of dollar expenses to yen income now that we have a single ex-
change rate. In the case of the banks there has thus far been no
need to make such an allocation. Nor will there be unless and until
the banks make a yen profit. Up to date, as far as I know, all dol-
lar expenses without exception have been allocated to dollar income.
As for the "twilight zone" mentioned, it might also be said
that the dividing line betwsen occupation and civilian personnel is
surrounded by a twilight zone. A clear line of demarcation has been
and will continue to be difficult to enforce. And extra-territori-
ality in an cccupied country and prior to a peace treaty - sems
lit le different than extra-territoriality for the other. Personally,
it seems to me, that with SCAP in full control, the country occupied
and no peace treaty yet in sight the argument regarding extra-terri-
toriality is at best somewhat premature.
Paragraph 18: The answer to the problems outlined in this para-
graph seems to lie in proper controls. For instance, why was the
insurance company mentioned allowed to sell a car for yen to a Jap-
anese? No one else is allowed to make such a sale.
Paragraph 20: "Courses of Action". This paragraph suggested
three ccurses of artion open to SCAP. One, negative; the Japanese
should voluntarily take action tc remove "alleged" tax impediments
to its foreign investment program. (I submit that they will either
remove them, voluntarily or otherwise, cr there will be no foreign
investment program worthy of the name.) Two, positive; recommend
to the Japanese that preferential tax rates be applied to the in-
comes of foreign investors for a given period; and three, "inte-
gration with the overall tax reform plans".
No comments on, or arguments with, this paragraph.
P
aragraph 21: Agree entirely with this paragraph.
Paragraph 22: This paragraph argues against the second course
of action -- preferential tax rates. on political and diplomatic
grounds. The last sentence reads "To call for preferential treatment
for non Japanese nationals would be to call for taxes that discrimi-
nate against Japanese taxpayers." If this is a political and diplo-
matic question rather than one of economics, I do not feel competent
to discuss it. The argument of "discrimination" against Japanese
taxpayers, however, leaves me absolutely cold. It would be hard to
convince
RESTRICTED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
convince any layman American taxpayer now paying for our partici-
pation in the war, that Japanese taxes, the fantastically high Jap-
anese rates, all of them, are not one way or another directly attri-
butable to Japan:s participation in the war. I find it diffioult.
to work up any great sympathy for the Japanese taxpayer and even
more difficult to understand why any part of his tax burden should
be shifted to my shoulders.
Paragraph 23: This paragraph suggests that the third course
of action - reduction of the entire Japanese tax schedule - would
be the best. From the point of view of overall tax revenue this may
well be so. This paragraph, however, again ties up the foreign in-
vestor and commercial entrant in the same package with the Japanese
taxpayer and states that such action would obviate the need for
preferential tax treatment for foreign investors. This statement.
is open to serious doubt. I question whether the Japanese can af-
ford to reduce their overall taxrate structure enough to really
attra't foreign investment in competition with other investment
mar!sts - for example. the Philippines where corporate income tax
is 10 percent.
Paragraph 24: Entirely agree.
Paragraph 25: Do not agree. Few commercial people would stay
in Japan if their dcllar incomes were subject to a 50 percent Jap-
anese income tax. Even 25 percent would discourage many of them.
If they must pay income taxes of any appreciable amount, most of
them will prefer to pay them in their own country and to their own
government, rather than to the Japanese.
Paragraph 26: What is the effective distinction between excess
profits tax and a "graduated normal tax" that maintains the same de-
gree of corporate tax productivity? What counts is the cost, not
the name. If it costs too much, the foreign investor just won't pay.
There are no two ways about that.
Paragraphs 27 and 28: No comment.
Paragraph 29 a and es Do not agree. See previous comments.
Paragraphs 30 to 33: Summary. Most of the subject matter in
this section of the circular has been commented on in previous para-
graphs of this letter.
General
The circular under review starts out as a discusaion of Japanese
Taxation of Commercial Entrants. The discussion, however, is soon
broadened to include the entire Japanese tax picture. I cannot agree
that a solution of the former is necessarily dependent on a solution
of the latter or that the latter should necessarily include the former
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-10-
The discussion also brings forward diplomatic and political
reasons for action, or lack of action. These arguments, on the
whole, seem to be diametrically opposed to the interests of com-
mercial entrants and foreign investors in Japan's economy. The
political and diplomatic implications of any line of action must
no doubt be considered, but they need not necessarily be decimive.
Where they conflict with commercial interests and/or the economic
objectives of the Occupation their relative importance should be
carefully considered.
It seems to me that, confining the question to the subject
of the memorandum under review "Japanese Taxation of Commercial
Entrants", the whole matter can pretty well be boiled down to
thiss Do the Japanese want the assistance of commercial entrants
and foreign investment in the rehabilitation and rebuilding of
their trade and industry? If they do, they must be prepared to
pay for it. The only feasible way they can pay is by tax exemp-
tion total or partial. (Call that "discrimination" against the
Japanese taxpayer if you like -- it won't change the hard facts.)
If the necessity for total or partial tax exemption for foreign
nationals and business is accepted, then the only question is how
far can they go before they reach the point of diminishing return.
I can't answer that cne, but I will venture the opinion that if.
the Japanese are smart they will make foreignationals and business
as nearly exempt from Japanese taxes as possible. The overall
benefits accruing to the courtry from an expanding and flourishing
foreign business ccmmunity during the years the nation is desperately
trying to become self-supporting should far outweigh any revenue
they could possibly collect from foreign personnel and business.
A selfish point of view? Yes - if you like. But I have lived
through and struggled with the problem of doing business abroad
under the handicap of high taxes. It just doesn't work. The Jap-
anese must choose between direct tax revenue and the less obvious
benefits of foreign business and investment. By and large the two
are mutually exlusive. They can't have both.
With best wishes, I am
Yours very truly,
LEO W. CHAMBERLAIN
Acting President
THE AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
IN JAPAN
RESTRICTED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatab No.
of July 8, 1949, from the Offioe of
the U. S. Political Advieer for
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, on the subject "Comments on
Japanese Taxation of Commercial
trants by American Chamber of Co
(COPY)
June 28, 1949
Major General W. F. Marquat, Chief
Economic & Scientific Section
GHQ, SCAP, APO 500
Subject: Internal Revenue Taxes; Customs Duties
Dear General Marquat:
The American Chamber of Conmerce in Japan is vitally interested
in the program for taxes which is understood to be under considera-
tion at the present time.
Members of the Chamber of Commerce are (with three or four ox-
ceptions) corporations organized under the laws of the United States
and doing business in Japan. They include not only large and well
established businesses but also firms who are endeavoring to enter
the Japanese market. Some are interested in making investments in
Japan.
All are unanimous in feeling that the present systems of taxa-
tion in Japan are unduly oppressive. Rates are so high as to be
nearly meaningless in many instances. The enforcement of taxes is
discriminatory against foreign businessmen.
For convenience, the taxes are grouped into two headings, con-
cerning internal revenue taxes and customs duties.
INTERNAL REVENUE TAXES
The Corporation Tax, as amended in March 1947, 1948 and 1949,
is so high, in the opinion of the members of this Chamber, as to
be a poaitive deterrent tc any business anticipating an investment
of capital in Japan. The met insome tax of 35%, the excess profits
tax varying between 10% and 20%, and the business tax, all combine
to provide a tax burden of between 43% and 622% upon foreign cor-
porations endeavoring to do business in Japan. Without regard to
the many cther obstasles placed in the way of foreign investment
in Japan today, these high tax figures alone are considered by
the members to be a sufficient deterrent to an investment of capital.
We are likewise appalled at the fantastically high rates based
upon personal income. It has been estimated that a aingle man,
having neither cbligations nor duties to perform outside of Japan,
permitted entry into Japan as a Comercial Entrant by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, and living in any hotel for commer-
cial entrants, owning a car but not engaging in estensive entertain-
ment, and having no savings program whatsoever, must earn approxi-
mately $42,000 per year, before taxes, if he may expect to have
enough
RESTRICTED

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439.
July 8, 1949.
-2-
enough left at the end of the year to pay his hotel bill and the
other incidental charges. The burden upon married men is even
higher. If and when these taxes are made applicable to us, it will
be difficult for more than a handful of businessmen to remain in
Japan.
An irritating tax which seems to us to be much too high is the
automobile tax. One member of the Chamber of Commerce has to pay
taxes of approximately $150 a year on a 1939 Dodge which is pro-
bably worth about $850 in Japan. The automobile. tax is based upon
the theory that a privately owned automobile is a luxury and not
a necessity. Such of course is a very unrealistic view of the
problem.
Reference is made to a document entitled "Survey of Japanese
Taxation", dated 6 May 1949, prepared by the Internal Revenue Divi-
sion, in which is summarized the various taxes which are in effect
in Japan today.
articular reference is made to paragraph No. 36, page 23,
which-refers to the real property acquisition tax. Such tax re-
quires the buyers of real estate to pay a 20% tax. It is stated,
in this paragraph, that "no complaints have been received by the
division regarding this tax".
For your information, there is apparently no effort made what-
soever to enforce this tax. A member of the Chamber, who is an at-
torney licensed by SCAP, advises that he has participated in apprord-
mately a dozen real estate transactions, wherein foreign residents
have purchased houses from Japanese. In every instance, thcre have
been two contracts prepared by the Japanese lawyers, one a contract,
apparently secret, drawm up between the two parties and revealing the
actual amount of the transaction, and the other, a pro forma contract,
revealing some fictiticus sales price, fixed at a level which the
parties believe will be acceptable to the local ward office. In one
case, the amount involved was $25,000 United States currency, or
nearly ¥10,000,000 (United States currency was paid in New York under
conditions which comply with the currency exchange regulations of
Japan). Yet the contract itself recited a consideration of but
550,000, and the 20% tax was based upon this fal.se and fictitious
value. As you know, it is virtually impossible tc rerit a house in
Tokyo. Those of us who desire to live here with families must pur-
chase a house. We must either falsify the purchase price in order
to decrease the real property acquisition tax (and at the same time
to decrease the capital gains tax imposed upon the seller) or we must
find that the price of any piece of property which we buy, already
very much inflated, is increased by 20%. This is a particularly un-
warranted hardship upon many who, through the action of the Japanese.
Government at the outbreak of war, were driven from their homes ac-
quired before the war, and whose homes are now occupied by the United
States Army for quarters for military personnel and who are thus re-
quired to purchase other houses here.
Members
RESTRICTED

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No ? to
Tokyo': Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-3-
Members of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan are anlous
to invite your attention to the fact that there is not any necessary.
relationship between income of an individual and the amount of tax
he pays. Members have recited numerous instances in which they have
become aware of the age-old Japanese custom of keeping one set of
books for the tax collector and another set for themselves. Tour
very salutary enforcement program may bear fruit in time; for the
present, however, foreign firms, not accustomed to keeping two sets
of books, and not accustomed to paying taxes by negotiation with an
individual tax collector, resent very much the discriminations which
the present system imposes upon us.
IMPORT DUTIES
We are very greatly concerned with the prospect of the early
introduction of impõsts upon the goods which are imported into Japan,
and upon which we must rely almost exclusively for our sustenance.
The foreign community in Japan has been encouraged to make its
purchases at the so-called Overseas Sales Store, a branch of the
Japane e Government at present, and have been discouraged from making
purchases of foodstuffs on the Japanese market.
We are required by our standard of living (which differs greatly
from the Japanese standard of living) to rely heavily upon such im-
ported items as soap, bacon, meat, butter, dairy products, bakery
products, and frozen andcanned vegetables. We likewise have greater
demand for clothing, than does the average Japanese.
We are dependent upon imports for many things which are quite
necessary to our way of life and which are not available at all upon
the open Japanese market, cr can be purchased only in black market
channels. Yet the importation of these goods is to be discouraged
(as we have learned) through the imposition of high customs duties.
For example, there is a heavy impost upon soap. The foreign com-
munity here must have scap which is a necesary part of its existence.
The soap manufactured on the Japanese market is of extremely poor
quality, and in any event is rationed and is not available to foreig-
ners. We therefore must buy soap which is imported.
You are no doubt aware of the fact that imposts are usually
levied for one of three reasons .
a. For revenue. Small duties upon imports will yield revenue
which will help to finance the government.
b. The so-called protective tariff, with imposts ufficiently
high to discourage imports and thus to protect selected local in-
dustries.
c. Tariffs which are set so high as to preclude the importation
of
RESTRICTED

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure M. 
Tokyo's Despztch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-4-
of foreign goods, in an endeavor to make a country self-sufficient
and to conserve foreign exchange.
We have no quarrel with imposts which are levied in order to
obtain revenue. Import duties have been so long a part of the me-
thod of financing government that they are essential, probably from
a historic point of view as much as from a financial point of view,
and they undoubtedly will contimue for such reason.
On the other hand, imposts which are set at such a high figure
as to discourage imports of selected items in order to protectlocal
industries would not appear applicable in most lines today. Japan
is a large textile producer. It would seem logical to suppose that
the Japanese textile industry is strong enough to stand on its om
feet without the protection of high tariffs. Yet the textile in-
dustry is protected. High tariffs upon essential commodities which
are not available upon the Japanese market likewise cannot be jus.
tified upon the basis of protecting local industries.
It is our feeling that the philosophy of basing imposts upon
economics -- that is to make tariff duties so high as to compel
everyone to do his shopping at home to avoid the loss of foreign ex-
change would appear to be completely illogical and insupportable in
Japan today.
In the first place, the only substantial imports of goods and
commodities of a personal nature are those which are made for the.
foreign community that is in Japan at the invitation of SCAP or on
an accredited basis. The imposition of an austerity program upon
us, or the requirement that we must live a bleak and Spartan life
because the Japanese, whc lost the war and therefore must lead such
a life, do so, seems entirely without reason.
For example, at present it is possible to buy a Ford automobile
for approximately $2375.00 delivered in Tokyo. This is $300 higher
than,the U.S. Army Post Exchange price for the same car, and ac-
tually represents a profit, in terms of foreign exchange, of approxi-
mately $400 to Japan. If the present rate and scale of import duties
should apply to the purchase of a Ford, it would probably cost around
$8000.00 delivered in Japan. This veryhigh rate upon imported auto-
mobiles was set to discourage people from importing automobiles imme-
diately prior to the war. The Japanese government wanted to spend
this money to build up a war machine. Yet automobiles are necessary
to our daily business functions in Japan. We cannot exdst in a com-
fortable manner nor perform our business in an efficient manner with-
out automotive transportation. There is no Japanese automobile in-
dustry that produces a car that is large enough for any foreigner to
ride in at the present time. Therefore, the very high impost cannot
be said to be protecting the Japanese automobile industry. It would
seem highly inappropriate for us to pay such extremely high taxes
upon automobiles, for example, to conserve foreign exchange and to
aid in Japan's economic betterment.
Another
RESTRICTED

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No。
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-5-
Another case in. point is cigarettes. The customs.duties upon
cigarettes, if applied to importations from the United States, would
make cigarettes cost far more than any profit the Japanese may de-;
rive from an equal sale of Japanese cigarettes through the. Japanese
tobacco monopoly. There certainly can be no objection upon our part
to the imposition import duties upon cigarettes at a rate which would
compensate the Japanese for the profit otherwise made if we moked
Japanese cigarettes. Beyond that point, however, it would appear
that the cigarette tax would actually be a weapon of economic warfare
- a means of keeping foreign cigarettes out of Japan, not to proteet
the local interest, but to exclude the cigarettes merely because they
are foreign, or to conserve foreign exchange. Conservation of foreign
exchange through high import duties would seem inappropriate, likewdse
in the light of the adequate controls upon foreign exchange which now
exist.
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, after considorable
study, and after advice from the Department of State and the Depart-
ment of the Army, has adapted the 1930-1934 period as being a typioal
period upon which statistics for measuring the Japanese recovery pro-
gram could be based. One reason for adopting this period is that the
military dictators of Japan had not, during such time, become so
firmly entrenched as to impose a war economy upon Japan, and produc-
tion statistics therefore would not be abnormal.
We feel that, whenever it is appropriate to reinstate customs
duties generally in Japan, careful consideration should be given to
the suggestion that the imposts in effect from 1930 to 1934 be studied
as a basis for a revised impost schedule, and that it be adopted after
inequities are eliminated and after changes are made to cause such a
schedule tc conform to present SCAP policies.
WAR TAXES
One very serious aspect of the tax laws of Japan has been largely
ignored. At the present time, Japan's taxes are extremely high and
burdensome, inspired by the fact that Japan, a defeated nation, has
struggled with a terrific burden of internal costs of the war, the sup-
port of the Occupation Troops (in part), and of the restoration of com-
merce and industry. No great amount of Japan's revenue goes to normal
functions of government which are available to us as foreign residents
in Japan, such as schools which our children may attend, the maintenance
of highways over which we may drive, the maintenance of the telephone
system, the operation of an adequate police force for our protection, or
the other items which a government normally furnishes its people who
live under it. Expenditures to a far greater extent than normal may
be traced directly or indirectly to the war and to the repair of dam-
ages of war, as well as to the sustenance of the after-effects of the
war.
Members of the Chamber are citizens of a government which is still
at war with Japan. We paid, and still pay, taxes to the government to
which
RESTRICTED

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 4?9,
July 8, 1949.
which we hold allegiance, and are still paying the cost of the war
waged against Japan. It seems most unfair for us to be called upon
likewise to pay extremely high Japanese taxes, particularly when
the revenue obtained thereby is spent in large part upon rehabili-
tation arising from the Japanese war effort to which we were opposed.
Early in the Occupation, there were two taxes which were imposed
upon all Japanese residents. These taxes, which were actually capi-
tal levies, were not levied upon foreign residents in Japan. It was
considered at that time that it was inappropriate to levy the capital
tax, strictly a wartime tax, upon foreign residents whose nations had
been at war with Japan. There was some suggestion that thereby the
foreign community had been completely indemnified and that further tax
consideration need not be given to it.
This was a fait accompli on August 15, 1947, when commercial en-
trants were first permitted in Japan. We have never had a voice in.
this decision. We feel that it is highly unjust and that the tax
programs should be reconsidered in the light of the thought that they
will result in having us pay, in part, for the war to which we were
opposei personally and in which the government to which we owe alle-
giance was a belligerent.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to point a finger at a par-
ticular tax and say "this is war tax". Iikewise, it cannot be denied
that all revenues of Japan today relate in some form to Japan's de-
feat in the war. Perhaps the simplest method of avoiding what would
otherwise be an acute injustice would be to declare a moratorium for
a period of years upon certain specified taxes, insofar as nationals
of the eleven nations which are members of the Far Eastern Commission
are concerned, and state that such moratorium is to provide them with
relief from the payment of Japanese war taxes, making all other taxes
applicable to them impartially as to the Japanese.
In conclusion, I am anxious to invite your attention to the:fact
that any business man abroad who might be contemplating a sound and
conservative investment in Japan would be repelled by the extremely
high taxes here. The imposts and the customs duties are so high, if
enforced as presently drawn, as to prevent a man from coming to Japan
with much more than the shirt on his back and the clothes in his hand
bag. The extremely high income taxes would discourage any foreign
business man frcm coming to Japan to live and participate in the Jap-
anese recovery, and would also discourage any foreign investment, as
the fruits of the laber of foreigners of Japan, and the earnings of
an investment would thus be taxed away.
It is requested that we be given an opportunity to discuss these
matters with the appropriate members of your staff in an endeavor to
reach a workable solution to this problem. What we conceive to be
equitable is a level of taxation that will be adequate to pay for the
government service which we receive, and yet will be so reasonable as
to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 439,
July 8, 1949.
-7-
to preclude anyone from feeling that the tax structure of Japan, as
applied"to foreigners, is, as it now is, a "hate-the-foreigners"
pogrom.
We seek a tax program which will be satisfactory to the Japanese,
and one in which justice and impartial application will be lasting,
long after the Occupation has ceased. At the same time, we urge a tax
program which will not compel us all to elect between dissimulation
and chicanery when we meet the tax collectors and returning to our
homeland.
You no doubt recall of instances when foreign businesses wore
driven out of Japan, through taxation, immediately prior to the war
Those same taxes exist today, except that they are now much higher
It is inevitable that. if they are imposed as they now stand, again
the result will be to drive foreigners and foreign businesses out of
Japan, something that I am sure that neither the Japanese nor the
officials on the staff of the Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers
now desire.
With best wishes, I am
Yours very truly,
LEO. W. CHAMBERLAIN
Acting President
AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
IN JAPAN
RESTRICTED

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatoh No.
of July 8, 1949, from the Offige 
the U. S. Political Advieer for Japm
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, in the subject "Comments on
Japanese Taxation of Commercial 
trants by American Chamber of Commeroe
(COPI)
June 30, 1949
LWC:ni
cc Mr. L.H. Moss, Chief
Internal Revemue Division
May. Gen. W. F. Marquat
Chief, Economic and Scientific Section
GHQ, SCAP
My dear General:
Attached you will find the original of a letter addressed to
you from the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan on the subject
of internal revenue taxes and customs duties. This letter is signed
by mvself as Acting President of the American Chamber of Commerce,
but was written by a sub-committee of the Chamber. You will also find
a copy of a letter addressed to Mr. L. H. Moss, Chief of the Interpal
Revenue Division, on the same subject. As you will note, this letter
is by way of comment on Mr. Shavell's memorandum dated 8 June 1949,
subject: Japanese Taxation of Commercial Entrants.
The letter addressed to you was written without benefit of
Mr. Shavell's memorandum and probably should be rewritten, but time
presses and since it does represent the thinking of the commeroial
community who, up to date, have been kept very much in the dark in
regard to the plans and thinking of GHQ officials in this connection,
I have decided to let it go as is.
With reference to both these letters, and to the whole problem
of Japanese taxation of foreign nationals, it occurs to me that there
may be the makings of a constructive suggestion in the following,
which is quoted from a recent letter from my Head Office in New Yorks
Income Tax Conventions
"Formal announcement was made during the recent visit
to the United States of President Dutra of Brazil that the
two countries intend concluding an income tax convention.
The United States already has such conventions in force with
Canada, Denmark, France, Netherlands, Sweden, and the United
Kingdom. A number of other conventions either have already
been negotiated and are awaiting formal ratification, or
are in various stages of discussion. In due course of develop-
ment of the Administration's current program of facilitating
the extending of American technical assistance to countries
less advanced industrially, we believe discussion of a pos-
sible tax convention with the United States may likely
arise in other countries, in Latin America in particular
RESTRICTED

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclcsure No. 3 to
Tokyo:s De atch No 439,
July 8, 194
-2-
"The reason for tax conventions is this. Business
transactions are surrounded by a variety of circumstances ao-
cording to which the resulting income or profit may be taxed.
International transactions usually come within at least two
tax jurisdictions. If each applies its tax without regard
for the principles followed by the other, the same income
or profit may be taxed both by the first country on the basis
of one circumstance, and by the second on the basis of an-
other. In fact, it often is. This handicaps international
operations in competition with internal transactions which
bear only one country's tax. Where dividends and interest
are affected, it deters investment of foreign capital.
"A tax convention constitutes a mutual agreement be-
tween two countries on rules determining the circumstances
according to which the more important classes of income shall
be taxed; and provides, ordinarily, that the country in which
a tax payer has his residence or fiscal domicile shall give.
him a credit against whatever tax it imposes on his income
earned in the other country, for such taxes as he has paid
the other country on that income.
"Taxpayers of countries which have tax conventions in
force with a given country, have a competitive advantage in
transactions with concerns in that country, over taxpayers
of nations which have not made such arrangements. As a general
principle, we consider the conclusion of such conventions very
desirable. Through trade and taxpayer organizations in which
the Bank is represented, we have taken, and are taking, active
part in furthering their conclusion, particularly with countries
where we have branches. (That does not mean, of course, that
we would automatically favor any particular convention without
regard to the provisions it contains.)"
I do not know whether anything can be done along these lines prior
to a peace treaty or not, but in any event I have asked my Head Office
to send me such information on tax conventions as they may have avail-
able. If they send me anything that appears to be of interest, I
shall be glad to pass it on to your Internal Revenue Division.
Yours sincerely,
AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN JAPAN
Acting President
RESTRICTED

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
DATB: 7/19/49
TO
17-849
FROM
Mr. Green wa.
-894.512
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 439 of July 8, 1949
Forwarded herewith are copies of 2 letters recei
by EsS from Leo Chamberlain, Acting President of the
894.512/7-8
Chamber of Commerce in Japen. On behalf of the Chamb
the letters protest the present system of taxation in?
Japan as unduly oppressive and discriminating against
foreign businessmen. Excess profits and business tax
1mpose a burden of between 43% and 62 1/2% upon fore
corporations endeavoring to do business in Japan. Wit
out regard to many other obstacles (such as import dutle
bureaucratic red tape) placed in the way of foreign in-
vestment in Japan today, these high tax figures alone are
considered by the members of the Chamber to be a sufficient
deterrent to an investment of capital. The figures are
649
said to speak for themselves: since V-J day there has not
been one single foreign investment in Japan of any
significance.
CS
"It seems to me," concludes Mr. Chamberlain, "that
the whole matter can pretty well be boiled down to this:
Do the Japanese want the aseietance of commercial entrants
and foreign investment in the rehabilitation and rebuild-
ing of their trede and industry? If they do, they must
be prepared to pay for it. The only feasible way they
can pay is by tax exemption, total or partial."
Comment: There would seem to be some pretty strong
political arguments against extending too greet a measure
of exemption to foreign ("cemprador") investment in Japan.
F.w.894.512
Cat-
FE:NA:MGreen:aw

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
TO: E - Mr. Allison
DATE: July
SUCT: Teleconference on Japanese Tax Program.
The teleconference referred to in the attached message will be
July 22. Gordon Strong will go instead of Mr. MaDiarmid.amd
o. Mr. Dodge is expected to participate.
It is anticipated that the State and Army conferees will express
whether reduction of taxes is necessary to avoid excess deflation.
will probably not lead to a definite conclusion and the State Depert
tives will report to FE on the outcome.
DO/7
FE:NA:NE
Endinger:lk
7/22/49

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
TO : NA - Mr.
DATE:
August 10, 1949
ma
FROM : NA - Mr. Reedy B.R.R.
7-2549
894.512
SUBJECT: ToKyo's #486 of July 25, 1949
USPOLAD forwards a copy of "ESS Tax Bulletin" from 
the Internal Revenue Division, Ess, the first of a monthty
series. Object of Bulletin is to inform occupation personnel
of changes and developments in Japanese taxation polioy.
MR Centras Fs
nt must be Roau
Points of interest are:
(1) 4 new Japanese agencies in the tax field.
(2) FY 1949 tax collections exceeded revenue estimates
by 30 billion yen.
(3) There has been considerable tax evasion by UN
nationals in Japan. Though subject to Japanese
H
tax laws, evasion of these laws subjects UN
nationals to criminal prosecution in Military
894
Occupation courts.
(4) Estimated tax and other receipts of prefectural
and 1ocal governments for 1948-49 and 1949-50.
.512/7-2549
state
Norihea
F.W.894.512/7.2549
15Y
CS/W
COT

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
49150
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REC'D
United States Political Adviser
AUG 2
for Japan
Tokyo, July 25, 1949.
ACTION
OFD
No. 486
INFO
OSNNE
R
DCR
UNCLASSIFIED
FE
A0G-1949
OLI
ITP
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TREAS
FRB
COM
Subject: Transmission of Copy of ESS Tax Bulletin.
894.512/7-2549
The Acting Politi ul dviser for Japan has the honor to rofer
to this Mission's despatches nos. 319 dated May 19, 1949, entitled
"Reorgenizetion of Japanese National Tax Administration," and 330
of May 23, 1949, transmitting a copy of a memorandum entitled
"General Survey of Japanese Taxation,"
There is now enclosed a copy of a memorandum dated July 11,
1
1949, entitled "ESS Tax Bulletin, " and prepared by the Internal
Revenue Division, Economic and Scientitic Section (ESs), General
Headquarters, Supreme Conmandor for the Allied Powers.  indicated,
this is the first of a series of ragular monthly bulletins which
will be released by the Internal Revenue Division.
The monthly bulletin airs to mee! the need for more expeditious
dissemination of tax informutior amon General Headquarters and
(U.S.) Eighth Army personnel be inc  irect or indirect interest in
Japanese local and national sgovernment taxes. It is stated that
"the bulletin will contain :aformation o. vurious phases of the pro-
gress mede in re-fashiou'ne Jupanese tax udministration along more
democratic, equitable, and medernizec lires, on overall levels of
Japanese tax collections, on revisions of national and local tax
laws, end on other sigrificant der lopments in the taxation and
revenue field."
In the present issue of the bulletin, mention is made of the
relatively recent establishment and accomplishments of four new
Japanese agencies operating in the tax field. These include the
National Tax Supervisory Group, the National Tax Investigators Sec-
tion, Personnel Investigators. end Tax Example Offices. Data are
included on national tax collections for the 1948-49 fiscal year
ending March 31, 1949, vhich show thet actual collections exoeeded
budgetary revenue estimates oy more than 30 billion yen. In addi-
tion, preliminary reports of tax collections through June 20, 1949
for the
AUG 12 1949
FLD
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP AC

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch. No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
-2-
for the 1949-50 fiscal year are also presented. Mention 1s. also
made of estimated tax and other receipts of all prefectural and
local governments for 1948-49 and 1949-50.
at.
Enclosure:
gurn
Copy of ESS Tax Bulletin
dated July 1l, 1949.
Parchment mat to the Department.
501.2
CHBoehringer:pf
UNCLASSIFEED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 486,
dated July 25, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Tranmmission
of Copy of ESS Tax Bulletin".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section
ESS TAX BULLETIN
Issued monthly by the Internal Revenue Division, Economic and
Scientific Section, General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers.
VOLUME I - NO. 1
TOKYO - 11 July 1949
Purpose of the ESS Tax Bulletin:
With the many significant and rapid developments taking place in
the field of Japanese taxation (issuance of SCAPIN 20ol, initiation
of the Tax Administration Agency, advent of the Shoup Taxation Mission
and changes in the pattern and objectives of Civil Affairs Tax Sur-
veillance), there has arisen a need for more expeditious dissemination
of tax information among all GHQ and Eighth Army personnel having 
direct or indirect interest in Japanese local and national government
taxes. It is primarily to meet this need that the ESs Tax Bulletin
has been established. The bulletin will contain information on various
phases of the progress made in re-fashioning Japanese tax administra-
tion along more democratic, equitable, and modernized lines, on over-
all levels of Japanese tax collections, on revisions of national and
local tax laws, and on other significant developments in the taxation
and revenue field. As this bulletin will not contain classified in-
formation, its distribution will be unrestricted. The bulletin will
be issued on a monthly basis. It may be supplemented, however, by
special issues from time to time when important developments in the
tax field have ocourred and when such information may be of immediate
value.
New Agencies:
Four new agencies have been organized within the past six to
eight months. À brief description of them is given below as well as
some of the work which has been accomplished in each of these bodies.
Establishment of the National Tax Supervisory Group:
Effective 15 June 1949, the National Tax Supervisory Group was
established as a special unit within the Japanese Government Tar
Administration Agency. The chier mission of the National Tar Super-
visory Group is to make field investigations of the manner in which
the tax
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Emelosure.No. 1
to Tokyo's. Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
the tax laws, regulations, and administrative rulings are being en-
forced by the taxation officials and to report on their findings
direct to the Chief of the Tax Administration Agency. The super-
visory Group will also inquire into tax personnel matters (hours of
duty, overtime work, detrimental union activities, adequacy of
office facilities and equipment, optimum deployment of personnel,
etc).
The Japanese National Tar Supervisory Group is patterned along
the lines of the Supervisors of the Accounts and Collections Division
of the U.S. Bureau of Internal Revenue. The Japanese supervisors,
while they are to cooperate closely with the chiefs of the regional
tar bureaus and local taxation offices, are not subordinated to the
latter. At present there are 53 supervisors, appointed after care-
ful selection from outstanding and highly qualified tax officials.
These have been assigned to the various regional bureaus as follows:
At large
954
Tokyo
Kanto Shinetsu
Osaka
8
Sapporo
3
Senda1
4523343
Nagoya
Kanazawa
Hiroshima
Takamatsu
Fukuoka
Kumamoto
53
It is expected that the number of supervisors as well as their
scope of activities will be gradually extended to the point where
periodic and complete audits of local taxation offices will be
possible.
Establishment of National Tar Investigators:
The National Tax Investigators Section has been established as
an arm of the Inspection and Investigations Division of the Tax
Administration Agenoy and of the ll regional tax administration
bureaus. Their main function 1s to make actual investigations of
the taxpayers' inoome tax liability.
For the current year, all self-assessed income tax returns with
income of 1,000, 000 or more, and all corporation tar returns with
income or capital of ¥3,0o0, 000 or more, will be referred to the
Investigation
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
-3 -
Investigation Ssction for examination. This will include pro-
visional returns.
It is planned to have 6o0 investigators assigned to the various
regional bureaus by the first of August.
National Tas Inspectors:
At the present time there are 290 National Tar Inspectors
located at the various regional tax administration bureaus through-
out Japan. This number will be increased to 500 in the near future.
Emphasis is now being placed on the proper selection of tax evasion
cases for prosecution, so that the courts will not become overloaded
with cases which do not warrant prison sentences or which only
warrant suspended prison sentences or fines. The Legal Section has
advised that cases which have been referred to procurators which do
not warrant prosecution may be withdrawn if trial has not been held
in the first instance.
Procurators have complained that many cases have been improperly
prepared by the Inspection Section. For example, it was found that
very often the Inspectors spent only 2 or 3 days in case preparations.
This is usually much too short a period in which to prepare a prose-
oution case for the attention of the procurators.
Personnel Investigators:
Although 50 Personnel Investigators have been authorized to
date, at the present time only 25 have been appointed. They will be
located in the various Personnel Investigators Detached Rooms at the
respective Tar Administration Bureaus. These investigators will be
directly under the control of the National Tax Administration Agency
and will work closely with the Personnel Inspection Section of the
Bureau.
Any information coming into this office ∞ncerning misconduct
or disloyalty of tax officials or tax employees will be referred to
the Chief of Personnel Investigators Room of the Tax Administration
Agenoy.
Establishment of Tax "E" Offices:
The Japanese Tax Administration Agency recently designated 20
local taxation offices as "Example" or "E" tax offices for the purpose
of making certain experiments relative to taxation problems. The
major characteristies of an "E" office, as distinguished from an
ordinary local tax office, are as follows:
Civ1l
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
a. Civil Affairs surveillance of these offices will be. sus-
pended and surveillance by the Internal Revenue Specialists statiomed
at regional levels will be kept to a minimum.
b. Greater effort will be made to have taxpayers file honest
returns and keep accurate records.
c. Taxpayers will be contacted before the reassesmments and
special efforts will be made to have the taxpayer voluntarily correot
the return.
d. More actual investigations will be made (1.e. 30% of agri-
culture returns, 50% of business returns and 80% of corporation
returns).
e. Special stress will be laid upon courtesy and tactfulness
of the taxation official.
Locations of the 20 selected "E" offices are as follows:
Name of Office
Name of City
Name of RFB
Koishikawa
Tokyo
Tokyo
Katsuhika
Tokyo
Tokyo
Fujisawa
Fujisawa
Tokyo
Kumagaya
Kumagaya
Kanto-Shinetsu
Utsunomiya
Utsunomiya
Kanto-Shinetsu
Nishi
Osaka
Osaka
Saykyo
Kyoto
Osaka
Nishinomiya
Nishinomiya
Osaka
Sapporo
Sapporo
Sapporo
Taira
Taira
Sendai
Morioka
Morioka
Sendai
Kanazawa
Kanazawa
Kanazawa
Naka
Nagoya
Nagoya
Tsu
Tsu
Tsu
Hiroshimanishi
Hiroshima
Hiroshima
Kurashiki
Kurashiki
Hiroshima
Marugane
Marugame
Takamatsy
Omuda
Omuda
Fukuoka
Miyahonojo
Miyahonojo
Kumamoto
Yamaga
Yamaga
Kumamoto
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Emelosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
-5-
National Tax Collections:
Actual tax collections for fiscal l948-49 exceeded budgetary
revenue estimates by over 30 billion yen. Tentative settled account
collections for 1948-49 are as follows:
Type of Tax
Tar Collections Budget
% of Tax
FY 1948-49
FY 1948-49
Collections
Withholding
76,439
61,271
124.7
Self-assessed
114,666
122,197
93.8
Total Income
191,105
183,468
104.2
Corporation
27,937
18,056
154.7
Liquor
54,720
45,776
119.5
Commodity
17,500
17,508
99.9
Transaction
20,786
21,400
97.1
Textile
11,551
10,090
114.5
Others
22,733
19.798
114.8
Total
346,332
316,096
109.6
Preliminary reports of tax ∞llections thru 20 June 1949 for
the fiscal year 1949-50 are as follows:
Type of Tax
Tar Collections
FY 1949-50
Budget
% of Tax
(as of 20 Jun 49)
FY 1949-50
Collections
Withholding
25,666
120,202
21.4
Self-assessed
4.948
190,000
2.6
Total Income
30,614
310,202
9.9
Corporation
7,754
27,271
28.4
Liquor
6,915
65,035
10.6
Commodity
2,351
27,044
8.7
Transaction
5,828
45,100
12.9
Textile
1,748
17,313
10.1
Others
3.174
22.695
13.9
Total
58,384
514,660
11.3
Taxes on Japanese Beer, Whiskey & etc.
Japanese beer is now being sold to Ocoupation personnel at the
"ration" price (which inoludes only the basic Japanese liquor taxes).
Japanese liquor companies have been permitted until 1 August
1949 to sell to Occupation personnel such present stocks of whiskey
that have been specially blended for members of the Occupation
without the payment of Japanese liquor taxes.
All Japanese
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
-6-
All Japanese whiskey, sake and other alcoholic beverages except
beer will be subject to the full Japanese liquor tares after 1 August
1949。
Tax Resistance of UN Nationals:
All local tax offices have been advised by the Tar Administra-
tion Agency that in the event resistance is met by tax officials in
the determination of the tar liability or the collection of taxes
from UN Nationals, the Civil Affairs may be called upen for assistance.
There has been considerable tax evasion by UN Nationals, and the
Japanese can advantageously employ Civil Affairs Team's assistance to
meet this situation. Japanese tax officials are permitted to proceed,
and should proceed, to the point where they meet with verbal or
physical resistance by the Un National, and are then to report to the
Civil Affairs Team. Before obtaining a Provost Court Order, it 1s
suggested that a Civil Affairs representative and Japanese tar official
first call upon the UN National; then, if resistance is still apparent,
action by the Provost Court should be requested.
The following telegram was sent to Eighth Army on 19 January 1949:
"It is reported that United Nations Nationals in Japan subjoct to
Japanese Tax Laws have violated said laws subjecting them to criminal
liability. Therefore. the assessment and collection of Japanese Govern-
ment Taxes against United Nations Nationals are civil matters and as
such come under the jurisdiction of the Japanese Government. It is not
intended that the Occupation authorities assume the funotions and
responsibilities of the Japanese Tax Collection Agencies. However.
where Japanese tax officials are prevented from carrying out their
legal duties hy United Nations Nationals who thus violate Japanese laws,
oriminal prosecution in Military Occupation Courts is in order. The
Japanese authorities are being advised of the general contents of this
message."
Notes on Prefectural and Local Government:
Effective 1 June l949, the Local Autonomy Agency was established
as an external organ of the Prime Ministers Office, under the provisions
of Artiole 3, para & of the National Government Organization Law.
a. The new agency consolidates the duties and staffs of the
Local Finance Committee which was abolished as of 1 June 1949, and the
Local Autonomy Seotion of the Prime Minister's Office.
b. The new agency is responsible for maintaining liaison between
the National and the Local Governments, facilitating cooperation among
local public bodies, collecting and analizing statistics of local
governments
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
melosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
governments, handling the distribution of shared taxes as well as
certain subsidies and in general representing the interests of pre-
feotural and local governments.
Major amendments to the Local Tax Law at the recent session of
the Diet, include:
a. Increase in land tar rates from 200 to 500%.
b. Increase in house tax rates from 250 to 500%.
c. Increase in inhabitants tax rates from 900 to 1450 yen.
d. Consolidation of 4 rates into one 36o0 yen rate for the
hunters tar.
e. Change in the enterprise tax rate applied to privately
owmed gas, electric and t ransportation systems from l5% of net
income to 2% of gross income. (This change does not become effeotive
until an increase in the rates charged by such companies, is made.)
f. A procedure was established for redistributing a portion of
the admissions tar from cities, towns or villages having relatively
high incomes from other sources - to other local units having rela-
tively smaller resources.
g. Moving picture theaters were required to use pre-numbered
tickets to be printed by a central procurement agency.
Estimated receipts of all prefectural and Local Governments
for 1948-49 and 1949-50 are as follows (in mill1ons of yen):
1948-49
1949-50
Total Direct. Tax Collections
90,655 34%
150,000 43%
Fees and Rents
11,541 4
17,900 5
Other Local Receipts
15,462 6
20,100 6
Borrowed Money
26,578 11
23,300 7
Total Directly Received
144,236 55
211.300 61
Shared Taxes
49,399 19
57,700 16
National Subsidies
69.442 26
82.000 83
Total Shares & Subsidies
118,781 45
139,700 39
Grand Totals
265,017 100%
351,000 100%
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclesure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 486,
July 25, 1949.
8
Monopoly Bureau:
The net profit of the Tobacco Monopoly is estimated at 120
bill1on yen for FY 1949-50 as compared to 94.3 for FY 1948-49.
This Spresents 15.3% of the total revenue of the Japanese Govern-
mont for FY 1949-50.
Sales for the first two months of this fiseal year amounted to
23.6 billion yen or 14.9% of total estimated sales. Sales for this
same period of FY 1948-49 were 6 billion yen.
During the past five months the manufacturing efficiency of
the Tobacco Monopoly has increased approximately 4%. Manufacture
for the first three months of FY 1949-50 was 15.7 billion units as
compered to an estimated 15.4 billion units. As of the 13th of
June, however, the Monopoly laborers have refused to work overtime
because of a low wage scale, and it is anticipated that this rate
of production will decline.
The Tobacco Monopoly manufacturing plant at Shinagawa was
designated as the model factory at which new cost accounting
schedules were to be introduced and utilized starting as of 1 July
1949. Through the analyses of these new schedules, inefficient
operations are plainly exposed by brands. Introduction of these
schedules in all other Tobacco Monopoly factories is contemplated
after a successful trial period at the Shinagawa plant. This will
permit individual and comparative analyses of all phases of.tobacco
operations by factories and brands. Up to the present time, no
modern syatem of cost accounting has been utilized by the manage-
ment of Monopoly Bureau.
Civil Affairs Tax Conference:
The nert conference of Civil Affairs Tar Surveillance Super-
visors previously scheduled for the end of July has been postponed
until late August or early September 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
NORTHEA
1
Grice of the United Stat
DEPARTMENT OF STATS
hitical Adviser for Jap
1×R
Tokyo, July 27, 1949.
No. 497.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
REC'D
AUG4
Subject: Progress of Shoup Tax Mission Report.
ACTION
FE
INFO
DCR
The Honorable
OFD
The Secretary of State,
OLI
Washington.
s/s
Sir:
I have the honor to report that the tax mission now in Japan
under the leadership of Dr. Carl S. SHOUP Is about to complete its
work; that its report will probably be published (in English and
Japanese) by early Sept ember; that the scope of the report will be
m
detailed and definitive; and that it will contain a budgetary and
taxation pattern which, if adopted and put into effect, would pro-
894.512/7-2749
51
vide a complete frame for the economy of Japan.
The Department may find incidental interest in the fact that
General MacARThUR has personally shown strong approval of the work
894.
of the Shoup mission and has urged with insistence that Doctor Shoup
return a year hence and at later times to follow up his work. In
this connection General MacArthur has reiterated to Doctor Shoup,
explicitly and with clearly intended emphasis, statements which he
has made on other occasions to the effect that he will remain in
his present duty "until the peace treaty is signed".
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
501.2
CCoville:hh
Parchment mat to Department.
AUG 17 1949
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only).
823.18
ACTION COPY

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Jupan
Tokyo, August 30, 1949.
. 590
NCLASSLFLED
REC'D
SEP 5
ACTION
OFD
INFO
894.512/8-3049
FR
The Act ing Pol : al Adviser has the honor to refer to this
DCR
Lission's despat n. 466 dated July 25, 1949, transmitting a
FE
copy of a rrmorandum latel July 11, 1949, entitled "Ess Tax
OLI
Bulletin," h: wa: prepeced by the Internal Revenue Division,
ITP
Lconomic . Section. General Headquarters, SCAP.
TREAS
FRB
Enclesei is a py  -h: second issue of this tax bulletin
COM
dated mugst 13 l949 Conrrtng tax collections during the
first fou unths of the l949 s0 Japanese fiscal year, it is
stated tha- a.3 per cent of the total taxes provided for in the
1949 0 er w ced conpered with only 13.9 per cent
or the com rerle iod a 194s 49. The remainder of the current
me  th: ulletie s tovoted to tax inspectors, personnel
invessigators remperury employees, corments on the operations of
the 2o -salr "exomple" tax offices, and the appointment of
tax inv .
As ine a the reference despeveh, this bulletin is pre-
pared  th  mal Revenue Division fer di ssemination of tax
Forma: ion aon General Headquarters and (U.s) Eighth Army
persenm havrg a a pest or indirect interest, in Japanese local
and nat ond?  rament tanes
SEP261949
   Pa etin"
FAP
aated ..  2049.
Parchment mat to the Department
501.2
Beehring
NCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAE

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 598.
dated August 30, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject."Transmission
of Copy of ESs Tax Bulletin".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Economic and Scientific Section
ESS TAX BULLETIN
VOLUME I - No. 2
TOKYO - 13 August 1949
The Shoup Taxation Mission will complete its study and make
recommendations on the Japanese tax structure during the latter part
of this month. Dr. Shoup and all but one of his staff will depart
Japan for the ZI on or about 27 August.
TAX COLLECTIONS:
Tax Collections as of 31 July 1949 for fiscal year 1949-50 are
compared to budget goals in table below. Comparative percentage of
collections during the same period in fiscal 1948-49 are also given.
Total collections during the first four months of the present fiscal
year reached 22. 3% of the budget tax goal as compared to only 13.9%
during the April 1948 thru July 1948 period. The two periods are
not strictly comparable, however. The first self assessment declar-
ations were not required until 31 July in 1948 whereas taxpayers
were required to file by 30 June this year. Also, as the Transac-
tions Tar was not effective until 1 September 1948, receipts from
this tax were included in the 1949 period but not in the 1948
period compared.
TAX COLLECTIONS AS OF 31 Ju1y 1949
Type of Tax
Tax Collections
Budget
% of Tax
% of Tax
FY 1949-50
FY 1949-50 Collections
1948-49
(as of 31 July 49)
1949-50
Collection
(as of 31 July 49)(as of 31
July 48)
Withholding
39,334
120,202
32.7
26.4
Self Assessed
24,591
190,000
12.9
7.3
Total Income
63,925
310,202
20.6
15.7
Corporation
12,747
27,271
46.7
14.8
Liquor
14,361
65,035
22.0
14.1
Commodity
4,422
27,044
16.4
16.1
Transaction
9,535
45,100
21.1
n.a.
Textile
3,296
17,313
19.0
19.8
Others
6.261
22,695
27.6
n.a.
Total
114,547
514,660
22.3
15.9
TAX INSPECTORS
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure Nc.
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 598
August 30, 1949.
- 2 
TAX RSPEOTOR
On  ree    to cne of the regional Tax Administration
Eureeus. . was founs that beth the Tax Office and the Procurator's
Cifi  we of the opiri thut small direet tan cases could still
referred rly o  procurator's office for prosecution
without :s reugh the nepection Section. This is incorrect
 all   er es which are to be considered for pro
secutici, m  Lea d thru the Inspection Section. The procedure
for be sling the direet tax ceses has not been definitely deter-
nined. but it wiil probatly require that all cases, other than
liquor as enc ether exceptional cases where immediate local
action is ne sary, b- cleared through the Inspection Section.
Also. at anoth bureau, it was found that they were of the opinion
that all tax evasion cases for prosecution would first be referred
to the Irvesti at cn Stction before going to the Inspection Section.
This, of ceurss was ineorrect. Many cases which may be originally
handled by the Invessigation Section will be referred to the Inspec-
tion Section for proserution but the Inspection Section will receive
fraud cases fer poss le proseeution direct from any source without
going througr the In st gation Section. On the other hand many
cases which w g mally be received by the Inspection Section
will be rererred to the Imvestigation Section when it is determined
that proseeut: on s et adsrsatle.
PERSONNEL LVESTIJATORS.
Waite  sonrna putlieity being siven to the misconduct of
tar off.ar  ss necessary to speed up the investisation of tax
personnei Snee the firsr of the year there has been a general
slowing-up   rsoncel inves:iget ens made by tax officials. One
of she pur eses  ablishins the Personnel Investigators Room of
he Tax Aman et Ageney we te speed up the handling of such
es ane t e the efficieney in dealing with them.
 of the ureaus it vas found that personnel investigators
were spe: ling their r on such petty investigations as those in-
velving x employees  haa b: en suspected of accepting a pack or
wo  care Prem saryers. Obviously such cases could have
be hne  s p ay stn of the Local Tax Office Chief.
Io vos also found that in sore Bureau Offices no distinction
was be ng ade between the Persennel Investigators assigned to the
 te Aeucy sno the Persennel Inspection Section of the
sureat. There she ls be the closcst of cooperation, but if the in-
sende ey of the  y Pers onne nvestigators is overlooked,
rfeetir
ill se lost..
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatfh No. 598,
August 30, 1949.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES:
Effective 2 - August 1949 2363 temporary employees are to bo
employed by the Tax Administration Agency to augment the clerical
forces in areas determined to be critical with respect to the
collection of assessed delinquent taxes. The employment of the
additional help is to release a comparable number of experienced
field collectors from clerical duties in order that they may
devote their full time in collecting delinquent taxes. The tom-
porary employees are to be alloted as follows:
Tokyo
500
Kanto-shinetsu
364
Osaka
648
Nagoya
93
Hiroshima
435
Fukucka
323
2363
"E" (EXAMPLE) OFFICES
All twenty "E" offices were recently inspected by a member of
the Tax Administration Section of ESS/IR. As a whole, these offices
are indicating favorable results; however the greatest good will be
measured by their effect upon all other tax offices.
Although surveillance by the Civil Affairs Teams have been dis-
continued in these "E" offices, it is urged that the tax specialists
in the field continue their surveillance and give proper guidance
to the officials.
Many of the offices could be greatly improved. For example:
(1) More taxpayers should be called into the office instead of
numerous field trips by the tax officials.
(2) Better planning of work relative to calling taxpayers into the
office, so as to avoid long waits.
(3) More consideration of taxpayers; such as providing chairs when-
ever possible and giving each arrival a number so as to avoid
confusion.
(4) Attention to all records in order that posting of records will
not become āelinquent.
(5) Determine that collection of delinquent accounts are proceeding
in an orderly manner.
(6) Determine that all work is kept current and the office is
operating in an orderly and efficiant manner.
TAX INVESTIGATORS:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.94)
Enslomre No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 598,
August 30, 1949.
TAX INVESTIGATORS:
The examination for investigators was given in the elevem
regional bureaus on June 30, 1949. Almost all of the applieepts
were regional taxation bureau or local tax office employwes. 
of a field of applicants of roughly twice the mmiber, 48l have
been appointed as investigators after passing the examimation.
These appointees are of superior education and experiemce d
are of greater maturity than the average tax official. After mmder
going a ten day schooling period these men are now starting work en
actual investigations of taxpayer's books and reoords and comparies
of their findings with the tax returns.
A brief analysis of the qualification of the appointees is
shown in the following table:
Taxation
No. of
Average
Average
bureau
Investigators
Age
Experience
Tokyo
125
7 years
Kanto-shinetsu
41
Osaka
104
23272752
Sapporo
Sendai
Kanasaws
Nagoya
Hiroshima
Takamatsu
Fukuoka
Kumamoto
32
10
Total
481
31.
8 years
Ninety-three university graduates and 137 college gradustes are
included in the total of appointess.
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.512/9.249
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS for Japan
REC'D
SEP 1 :1949 Tokyo, September 2, 1949.
SEPT 12
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No。 606
no actin regined
ACTION
my.
FE
CONFIDENTIAL - (FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
INPO
DCR
Subject:
Transmission of Memorandum Containing Summary
of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to
CLI
s/s
Under Secretary of the Armay
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a
copy of a memorandum dated August 31, 1949. on the subject "Summary
of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to Under Secretary Voorhees,"
which was prepared by Mr. L. H. MOsS, Chief, Internal Revenue Divi-
sion, Econcmic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, SCAP.
While some of the material presented in the memorandum hae pro-
taken by General Headquarters to reform tax administration and mati
mize tax collections.
As indicated, this summary was prepared for presentation to
Under Secretary of the Army Tracy S. VOORHEES who arrived in Tokyo
on August 29, 1949, for a two-week inspection trip.
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum dated August 31, 1949,
subject "Summary of Japanese Tax Problems
for Presentation to Under Secretary Voorhees"
Parchment Mat to the Department.
JUL 1 4 1952
FILED
501.2
CHBoehringer:lee
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITEN 14 DAYS, WITE A

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 606, September
2, 1949, from the Office of the U. S.
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
CONFIDENTIAL
the subject "Transmission of Memorandum
Containing Summary of Japanese Tax Pro-
blems fcr Presentation to Under Secretary
of the Army".
(COPY)
Economi: and Scientific Section
nternal Revenue Division
1 August 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR FILE:
SUBJECT: Summary of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to Under-
secret ary Voorhees
1. The major existing prcolems in the field cf Japanese taxation
are those relating to?
a. Tax admiri stratior and enfore ement. beth national and
1ocal: and
b. The unbalaneed tax structure.
These problems are hereinafter briefly analyzed with emphasis placed
on action being currently taker to resclve the problems, and future
acticn contemplated.
2. Background Summary: Administration of Japanese taxes has been,
and is, inadequate, inefficlent, inequitable and arbitrary. Part of
this is because of the large percentage of inexperienced, untrained and
youthful tax personnel, qualified perscrnel are practically non-
existent. Part of it is due t: the fact that the Oriental concept of
a tax machine, with unlimited and arbitrary power in the hands of the
tax collector. and with little or no right of effective appeal in the
hands of the taxpayer, has remained until recently a fundamental part
of the Japanese national tax administration, it is. in fact, still a
part of the local tax administrations. The combination of these fac-
tors, together with the higher and higher tax rates which have resulted
from the steadily mounting revenue requirements and inflation, had led
to the development in Japan of a definitely undesirable tax condition
which must be corrected, namely: arbitrary mass resssessments without
investigation or right of appeal; deliberate underassessments by sym-
pathetic tax officials; huge amounts of assessed but uncollectible
delinquent taxes, a complete breakdown, in some offices, of accoun-
ting systems; wholesale tax evasion; an almost total lack of volun-
tary taxpayer compliance; extremely low taxpayer morale; and mass
agitation for tax relief. These conditions represented tailor-made
ammunition for the commurists, who used them most effectively during
the last general election. For example, in their propaganda sheets
the communists described the mass reassessments as "descending from
heaven" assessments; i. e., assessments based on "figures pulled out
of the air".
3. ESs Tax Program: As part of the program to bring about cor-
rective reforms, the following steps were taken by Ess during 1948:
a. To
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 606,
September 2, 1949.
2
a. To devise and implement the tax admirnistration reforms,
qualified and experienced tax personnel were recruited, on a loan
basis, from the U.S. Eurean of Interra! Reveme and certain selected
state and local gcvernments. Part of these specialists were as-
signed to Ess/Internal Revenue Divisicn and part to the regional Civil
Affairs teams.
b. Arrangemerts were completed fer Dr. Carl Shoup of Columbia
University and six out standing tax economists to conduct a survey of
the unbalanced tax structure.
4. Progress in Administraticn Reform: Aithough substantial pro-
gress in tax administration and enforcement improvement has been made
during the past year, the full implementation of the reforms remains
to be realized. Progress to date includes:
a. The reorganization on 1 June 1949 of the 514 semi-
autonomous offices of the national tax service into one external
bureau of the Miristry of Finance with vertical Lines of authority and
control over all field offices. This was brought about by virtue of
SCAPIN 2001.
b. The establishmert within the national tax service in
September 1948 of the National Tax Inspectors, a grcup of specialists
who concentrate on large evasion cases. The extent of the success of
this group aside from the additional revenue gained, may be gleaned
from the following comparisons of income tax prosecutions:
Indictments
Convictions
Eight months prior tc 1 Dec 48
20
5
Eight months after 1 Dec 48
125
50
c. The establishment within the national tax service of the
National Tax Investigators, whcse function is to concentrate on the
investigation of the large non-evasion cases; the National Tax super-
visors, who maintain surveillance over the lower echelons of the re-
organized service; and the National Tax Personnel Investigators, who
were formed to weed out the corrupt and inefficient from the service.
d. The establishment of special activities within the ser-
vice to implement certain ESS/IRD sponsored prograns, such as: tax
personnel training programs; accounting reforms; taxpayer education
and publicity programs. To recruit the best qualified personnel for
these activities, special competitive civil service examinations were
held throughout Japan.
5. Tax Surveillance by CA Teams: Surveiliance by prefectural
Military Government teams over the local offices of the national tax
service was initiated in February 1948, due to lagging tax collections.
During the February-April periods of 1948 and 1949 approximately 120
and 130 men, respectively, were utilized for this surveillance. In
both
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No, 606,
September 2, 1949.
-3-
both years tax ccllections substantially exceeded budget revenue
estimates. With the abclishment of the prefectural teams and the
drastic curtailment of personnel, now under way, which will result
for all practical purposes in the elimination of surveillance over
local tax offices, the question arises as to whether desired col-
lection results can be obtained this fiscal year, when the tax bur-
den is admittedly the nighest of any year since V-J day. Fortunately,
the Ess tax program initiated last year contemplated the gradual re-
placement of quantitative surveillance with qualitative surveillance,
and qualified U.S. Treasury personnel, now stationed in all major re-
gions with the Civil Affairs teams, were resruited with this in mind.
Abrupt elimination of quantitative suveillance, however, was not con-
templated. Present tentative plans of the Civil Affairs Section,
Bighth Army, provide sixteen positions for natienal tax surveillance,
plus eight for surveillance over local tax administrations, as the
minimum necessary reasonably to assure collection of the tax goals
and implementation of the tax reform program.
6. Shcup Report: The Shoup Tax Mission report, Laying out the
pattern for both short and long run revision cf the Japanese tax struc-
ture, was submitted last week. It is a highly comprehensive and ex-
haustive study of the national, prefectural and local tax structures.
Highlights of the report include recommendations:
a. That a much greater degree cf fiscal autenomy, including
much broader taxatien powers, be granted the local governments.
b. That in order to bring about a greater degree of volun-
tary taxpayer compliance and make effective tax enforcement possible,
a substantial reduction averaging about 30; be made in the existing
abncrmally high personal ircome tax rates (wath a top bracket of 55%).
c. That, to compensate for the reduced inoome tax rates in
the high brackets, a "net worth" tax with rates ranging from % to 3%
be imposed on individuals with net properties in excess of five million
yen.
d. That the normal corporate in:ome tax rate of 35% be re-
tained, but that the excess profits tax be repealed.
e. That. a revaluation of assets be made, in order to reflect
realistic depreciation charges for tax purposes.
f. That real estate taxes be substantially revised and made
more productive, with anticipated revenues of 50 billion yen.
Throughout the report Dr. Shoup stresses action for the improvement of
taxpayer compliance and tax administration efficiency. These recommen-
dations are based upon the program already in force in ESS/IRD.
7. Future Action: Future actions planned are: contimuation and
acceleration of the present ESs tax administration reform program, both
national and local, and implementation of the recommendations of the
Shoup Mission.
HAROLD MOSS, Chief
Internal Revenue Division
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
894.512/9-249
DESP. EOE FROM TOKYO
THE ATTACHED COPY OF ADESPATCHTELEGRAM AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
APR 16 1950
FILED
7
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP 19.1949
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DC/R
OF THE
CONTROL COPY
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.512/9.249
Office cf the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
REC'D
SEPT 12
Tokyo, September 2, 1949.
ACTION
No。 606
FE
CONFIDENTIAL - (FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
INPO
DCR
OPO
Subject:
Transmission of Memorandum Containing Summary
OL1
of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to
s/s
Under Secretary of the Army.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a
copy of & memorandum dated August 31, 1949, on the subject "Sumary
of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to Under Secretary Voorhees,"
which was prepared by Mr. L. H. MOSS, Chief, Internal Revenue Divi-
eion, Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, SCAP.
While some of the material presented in the memorandum has pre-
viously been reported, it is believed that the Department may find
of interest this concise statement of Japanase tax problems and steps
taken by General Headquarters to reform tax administration and maxd-
mize tax collections.
As indicated, this summary was prepared for presentation to
Under Secretary of the Army Tracy S. VOORHEES who arrived in Tokyo
on August 29, 1949, for a two-week inspection trip.
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum dated August 31, 1949,
subject "Summary of Japanese Tax Problems
for Presentation to Under Secretary Voorhees"
Parchment Mat to the Department.
aQ
501.2
CHBoehringer:lee
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 606, September
2, 1949, from the Office of the U. 8.
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
CONFIDENTIAL
the subject "Transmission of Memorandum
Containing Summary of Japanese Tax Pro-
blema for Presentation to Under Secretary
of the Army".
(COPY)
Economic and Scientific Section
Internal Revenue Division
31 August 1949
MEMORANDUM FOR FILE:
SUBJECT: Summary of Japanese Tax Problems for Presentation to Under-
secretary Voorhees
1. The major existing problems in the field of Japanese taxation.
are those relating to:
a. Tax administration and enforcement, both national and
local; and
b. The unbalanced tax structure.
These problems are hereinafter briefly analyzed, with emphasis placed
on action being currently taken to resolve the problems, and future
action contemplated.
2. Background Sunmary: Administration of Japanese taxes has been,
and is, inadequate, inefficient, inequitable and arbitrary. Part of
this is because of the large percentage of inexperienced, untrained and
youthful tax personnel; qualified personnel are practically non-
exdstent. Part of it is due to the fact that the Oriental concept of
a tax machine, with unlimited and arbitrary power in the hands of the
tax collector, and with little or no right of effective appeal in the
hands of the taxpayer, has remained until recently a fundamental part
of the Japanese national tax administration; it is, in fact, still a
part of the local tax administrations. The combination of these fac-
tors, together with the higher and higher tax rates which have resulted
from the steadily mounting revenue requirements and inflation, had led
to the development in Japan of a definitely undesirable tax condition
which must be corrected, namely: arbitrary mass reassessments without
investigation or right of appeal; deliberate underassessments by sym-
pathetic tax officials; huge amounts of assessed but uncollectible
delinquent taxss; a complete breakdown, in some offices, of accoum-
ting systems; wholesale tax evasion; an almost total lack of volun-
tary taxpayer compliance; extremely low taxpayer morale; and mass
agitation for tax relief. These conditions represented tailor-made
ammunition for the communists, who used them most effectively during
the last general election. For example, in their propaganda sheets
the communists described the mass reassessments as "descending from
heaven" assessments; i.e., assessments based on "figures pulled out
of the air".
3. Ess Tax Program: As part of the program to bring about cor
rective reforms, the following steps were taken by Ess during 1948:
To
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 606,
September 2, 1949.
~2
a. To devise and implement the tax administration reforms,
qualified and experienced tax personnel were recruited, on a loan
basis, from the U.S. Bureau of Internal Revenue and certain seleoted
state and local governments. Part of these specialists were as-
signed to Ess/Internal Revenue Divisicn and part to the regional Civil
Affairs teams.
b. Arrangemerts were completed for Dr. Carl Shoup of Columbia
University and six outstanding tax economists to conduct a survey of
the unbalanced tax structure.
4. Progress in Administration Reform: Although substantial pro-
gress in tax administration and enforcement improvement has been made
during the past year, the full implementation of the reforms remains
to be realized. Progress to date includes:
a. The reorganization on 1 June 1949 of the 514 semi-
autonomous offices of the national tax service into one external
bureau of the Ministry of Finance with vertical lines of authority and
control over all field offices. This was brought about by virtue of
SCAPIN 2001.
b. The establishment within the national tax service in
September 1948 of the National Tax Inspectors, a group of specialists
who concentrate on large evasion cases. The extent of the success of
this group aside from the additional revenue gained, may be gleaned
from the following comparisons of income tax prosecutions:
Indictments
Convictions
Eight months prior to 1 Dec 48
20
5
Eight months after 1 Dec 48
125
50
c. The establishment within the national tax service of the
National Tax Investigators, whose function is to concentrate on the
investigation of the large non-evasion cases; the National Tax super-
visors, who maintain surveillance over the lower echelons of the re-
organized service; and the National Tax Personnel Investigators, who
were formed to weed out the corrupt and inefficient from the service.
d. The establishment of special activities within the ser-
vice to implement certain ESs/IRD sponsored programs, such as: tax
personnel training programs; accounting reforms; taxpayer education
and publicity programs. To recruit the best qualified personnel for
these activities, special competitive civil service examinations were
held throughout Japan.
5. Tax Surveillance by CA Teams: Surveillance by prefectural
Military Government teams over the local offices of the national tax
service was initiated in February 1948, due to lagging tax collections.
During the February-April periods of 1948 and 1949 approximately 120
and 130 men, respectively, were utilized for this surveillance. In
both :
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 606,
September 2, 1949.
-3-
both years tax collections substantially exceeded budget revemme
estimates. With the abolishment of the prefectural teams and the
drastic curtailment of personnel, now under way, which will remult
for all practical purposes in the elimination of surveillance over
local tax offices, the question arises as to whether desired col-
lection results can be obtained this fiscal year, when the tax bur-
den is admittedly the highest of any year since V-J day. Fortunately,
the Ess tax program initiated last year contemplated the gradual re-
placement of quantitative surveillance with qualitative surveillance,
and qualified U.S. Treasury personnel, now stationed in all major re-
gions with the Civil Affairs teams, were recruited with this in mind.
Abrupt elimination of quantitative surveil: nce, however, was not con-
templated. Present tentative plans of the Civil Affairs Section,
Kighth Army, provide sixteen positions for national tax surveillance,
plus eight for surveillance over local tax administrations, as the
minimm necessary reasonably to assure collection of the tax goals
and implementation of the tax reform program.
6. Shcup Report: The Shoup Tax Mission report, Laying out the
pattern for both short and long run revision cf the Japanese tax struc-
ture, was submitted last week. It is a highly comprehensive and ex-
haustive study of the national, prefectural and local tax structures.
Highlights of the report include recommendations:
a. That a much greater degree of fiscal autonomy, including
much broader taxation powers, be granted the local governments.
b. That, in order to bring about a greater degree of volun-
tary taxpayer compliance and make effective tax enforcement possible,
a substantial reduction averaging about 30% be made in the existing
abnormally high personal income tax rates (with a top bracket of 55%).
c. That, to compensate for the reduced income tax rates in
the high brackets, a "net worth" tax with rates ranging from 2% to 3%
be imposed on individuals with net properties in excess of five million
yen.
d. That the normal corporate income tax rate of 35% be re-
tained, but that the excess profits tax be repealed.
e. That a revaluation of assets be made, in order to reflect
realistic depreciation charges for tax purposes.
f. That real estate taxes be substantially revised and made
more productive, with anticipated revenues of 50 billion yen.
Throughout the report Dr. Shoup stresses action for the improvement of
taxpayer compliance and tax administration efficiency. These recommen-
dations are based upon the program already in force in ESS/IRD.
7. Future Action: Future actions planned are: contimuation and
acceleration of the present ESs tax administration reform program, both
national and local, and implementation of the recommendations of the
Shoup Mission.
HAROLD MOSS, Chief
Internal Revenue Division
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
DCIR
Fles
894.512/9-349
THEASBIAN AFFAI
United States Political Adviser
1949
for Japan
Tokyo, September 3, 1949.
REC'D
UNCLASSIFIED
SEPT 12
No. 609
ACTION
Subject: Recommendations of Shoup Taxation Mission.
FE(lenc)
INFO
FR
DCR
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
OFD ENC
Washington.
OLI ENC
ITP ENC
Sir:
S/S ENC
COM ENC
I have the honor to refer to various despatches regarain the
TREAS ENC
Japanese taxation situation submitted in recent moaths by !his Otfice,
FRB ENC
and to report that the Shoup Taxation Mission, which arrivei in Japan
SEC
about four months ago under the auspices of the Derariment of the
Army, has now completed its work.
4.512/9-349
On August 26, 1949, Dr. Carl S. SHOUP, Chairman of the Mission
and professor in the School of Business and the Graduate Faculty of
Political Science at Columbia University, released a summary of the
m
recommendations drawn up by the Missicl. These recommencetiona.
eagerly awaited by the Japanese public and by foreigners resident
1/
in Japan, are contained in the enclosed copy of a release issued a!
a special press conference at Tokyo.
As indicated in the first paragraph of the release. the recom-
mendations of the Tax Mission cover four general topics including:
(1) the total amount of taxation assumed to be necessary for +he
Japanese 1950-51 fiscal year commencing April 1, 1950, and the pro.
portions to be raised by the national and local governments, (2) the
major changes in the structure of the tax system, as, for example.
the part of the national total that is recommended to be aised y
the personal income tax: (3) the changes to be made within each tax.
as, for instance, t he way in which members of a co-living family
shall be treated under the income tax; and (4) some adninistrative
considerations, such as methods of inducing taxpayers to ccmply with
the law, and of allowing them to appeal against reassessments, nd
the role, if any, that business associations should te alloved to
play in getting the income tax assessed and collected.
The. Mission's
JUL 1 4 1952
FILED
CS/H
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 609,
Beptember 3, 1949.
-3 -
At the August 26 press conference, Dr. Shoup reportedly was
questioned by correspondents as to the effect of his recommendations
on the position of foreign investors in Japan. According to an
American correspondent, Dr. Shoup stated that "there are encouragements
for foreign investors to enter Japan although they are general and
non-discriminatory," and that "we hope all investors, both foreign
and domestic, will be encouraged by the recommendations." Dr. Bhoup
reportedly listed recommendations which are hoped to remove objec-
tions by foreign investors to putting their money into Japanese
industry under the present laws as: (1) repeal of the exoess profits
taxes for corporations; (2) more liberal treatment of stockholders
in regard to taxes on dividends "in view of the fact that corpora-
tions already are paying a 35 per cent tax under the recommendations";
(3) revaluation of assets, allowing an increase in the amount of
depreciation; and (4) "technical reforms" such as elimination of the
20 per cent withholding tax for aliens residing in Japan.
Local press reaction to the issuance of the summary of the Shoup
taxation report was very favorable. All metropolitan papers published
Large portions of the summary accompanied by extremely favorable
editorial comments. The English-language Nippon Times, Tokyo, on
August 27 published the entire summary under the heading "Shoup Advises
Vast. Tax Reforms; ¥20 Billion Slash Expected in 1950; Top Levy of 55%
on Incomes Urged.* In an editorial"published on the same date . (copy
2/
enclosed), the Nippon Times stated in part that:
"The summary report of the recommendations proper shows
all the marks of a careful and thorough study of the whole
scope of the Japanese tax problem. Every possible angle has
been covered to insure a fundamental reform of the tar system.
For their efforts, the Japanese people owe the members of the
tax mission a deep debt of gratitude.
"Revealing the thorough nature of the survey conduoted by
the American tax experts, the recommendations have a broad
base. The problems of everyone who spends money or earns an
income have been covered and in a manner where his tar burden
is roughly proportionate to his ability to pay. Much of the
inequities of the present system are thus adjusted.
"To be sure, much will depend upon how the Diet will.act
upon these recommendations. Ample room has been left for
vigorous exchange of opinion among the people, and every tax-
payer should feel it his responsibility to study the
recommendations carefully. It would be a sorry thing to have
the tax issue made a political football....."
Leading Tokyo
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 609,
September 3, 1949.
Leading Tokyo vernaculars all took up the Shoup tax recom-
mendations in their editorials published August 27. The Asahi saw
the need of further austerity. on the part of the people until
economic stabilization is achieved and of accumulation of capital.
The Mainichi said that while the recommendations fulfilled many
wishes entertained by the Japanese, there were a number of questions.
Was there not, the Mainichi reportedly asked, more room for reduc-
tion in workers' income tax for the low income bracket? The wealth
tar, too, the paper observed, is open to doubt whother it can really
be collected. More abolitions and changes are desirable in the.in-
direct tax system, the Mainichi pointed out.
In somewhat more critical vein, the Yomiuri commented to the
effect that Dr. Shoup's aims seem to be rather widely removed from
the expectations of the Japanese people. The Yomiuri opined that
his aim is to stabilize the tax system and to establish a tax system
best suited to the Japanese in the next few years, while it had been
the expectation of the people that a major reduction would be made in
the taxes. The Yomiuri is quoted as stating that mit must be annoy-
ing tc Dr. Shoup who has worked with scholarly conscience to.
establish a sound tax system in this country to find that the Japanese
people had been harboring such a mistaken hope." In view of the fact
that Dr. Shoup and his cohorts have literally been bombarded by
requests from the Japanese for drastic tax reductions, it would seem
that the remarks made by the Yomiuri may readily be dismissed as
being caused by cynicism rather than ignorance.
The Jiji Shimpo welcomed the reduction in the juridical person
tax as showing a good understanding on the tax mission's part as to
the fundamental basis of capitalistic management. The Nihon Keizai,
leading economic and financial daily published in Tokyo, reportedly
respected the democratic attitude of the Shoup Mission in inviting
the Japanese Government and people to comment freely on the recom-
mendations and thanked the Mission for. the painstaking survey it
made before making the recommendations. Dr. Shoup is reported to
have remarked that the Japanese were unanimous in saying that the
taxes are far too heavy but when he asked them how much they can
really bear no one seemed to have a good answer. The main concern,
the Nihon Keizai reportedly stated, must therefore be measures to
make taxpayers pay without fail when once an equitable system has
been set. The Sekai Keizai, another Tokyo journal devoted largely
to economic and financial subjects, reportedly observed that it was
deeply moved by the attitude of the Shoup Mission in endeavoring to.
arrive at a point of agreement between practice and theory instead
of imposing a plan arrived at on the basis of a mere theory.
According to
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 609,
September 3, 1949.
5
According to an item in the August 28 1ssue of the Nippon
Times, Prime.Linister YOShIDaShigeru is reported to have stated to
Chief Secretary of the Cabinet MASUDA Kaneshichi that the Shoup
Wission's recommendations drew a brighter picture than he had ex-
pected. The Premier is quoted as stating that "for over three
months the Mission made s forts far beyond what we can imagine.
We are grateful for the pains taken to make the reforms just and
reasonable. The Government intends to economize state expenses
and to make a greater cut in the income tax than is suggested in
the recommendations by negotiations with the proper authorities,
so as to live up to the expectations of the people."
The reactions of other prominent Japanese officials were.
described in ancther news item published August 28 by the Nippon
Times. According to this article, published under the heading
"Shoup's Tax Plan Strongly Backed by Experts Here," a copy of which
3/
is enclosed, Finance Minister IKEDA Hayato also reportedly stated
that the Japanese Government would try to reduce taxes even more
than is reconmended by the Shcup Mission. Meanwhile, Mr. INAGakI
Heitaro. Minister of Iuternational Trade and Inaustry, is quoted as
stating that the Shoup reconmendations "have certainly injected
bright hopes into the nation's industries in general."
Accerding to a report published August 31, 1949, by the Nippon
Iimes, Chief Cabinet Secretary Masuda stated that about 20 bills
covering the pending taxation reform program proposed by the Shoup
Lission are expected to be ürafted by the beginning of October. On
this assumption, inister Masuda stated, the date of the convoca-
tion of the sixth extreorainery Diet session had been set around
October 20
That General Headquarters officials concerned are vitally
interested in the Diet's approval of the Shoup recommendations was
repcrted by an American correspondent in an article published August
28 by the Nippon Times. According to this report, "Allied Head-
quarters officials want the Japanese Diet to quickly pass the tax
reforms recommended by the Shoup Taxation Mission and there may be
'direct acticn' on the part of GHQ if the Japanese are too slow...
High Allied officiels expressed: the opinion that the various
Japanese political parties would cooperate to see the proper legis-
lation speeded through the legislative branches, but said if they
did not. they would be told that such important measures should not
be used as "political foctballs: at the expense of the people."
The correspondent is quoted as stating that "foreign businessmen
are anxiously awaiting Diet action on the recommendations to see..
what the attitude will be toward taxing foreign firms. Bad tax laws
have done much to prevent the flow of large quantities of foreign
capital into Japan since the end of the war, although it is badly
needed here."
While the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 609;
September 3, 1949.
While the recommendations made by the Shoup Mission have widely
been praised, save by the Akahata, official organ of the Japanese
Communist Party, as being sound and essentially in Japan's best
interests, some comment upon the work of the Mission itself appears
to be in order. In our opinion, the Shoup Mission has been sing-
ularly successful, owing in large part to the competent leadership
afforded by Dr. Shoup as well as by the high level of assistance
given him by the other members of the Mission, by officials of the
Internal Revenue Division, Economic and Scientiric Section, and by
other officials in General Headquarters. Dr, Shoup himself was the
subject of widespread and favorable Japanese press comment, special
attention being devoted to his great zeal for getting at the crux of
the Japanese taxation problem, his unquestioned sense of fairness and
ability to solicit and to consider opinions from all strata of Japa-
nese society, and an ability to work in close harmony with Japanese
Government officials concerned with the taxation problem. We consider
that his work in Japan, which in a large degree'serves to supplement
the work in the field of Japanese economic stabilization done here
last spring by Mr. Joseph M. DODGE, financial adviser to General
Mac RTlUR should be sonsidered a significant service for the Occupa-
tion cf Japan..
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
caet
Enclosures:
1. Copy of press release entitled
"CIE Press Conference on Summary
of Recommendations of Tax Mission,
1000 hours, 26 August 1949";
(8 copies to Department)
2.
Copy cf editorial entitled "The
Shoup Tax Report" published August
27. 1949. by the Nippon Times;
3
Copy of article entitled "Shoup"s
Tax Plan Strongly Backed by Ex-
perts Here" published August 28, 1949,
by the Nippon Times.
Parchment mat to the Dapartment
501.2
CHBoehringer:pf
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 609
dated September 3, 1949 from the
United States Political-Adviser for
UNCLASSIFIED
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Recom-
mendations of Shoup Taxation Mission"
(Copy of editorial Published August 27,
1949 by the Nippon Times, Tokyo)
THE SHOUP TAX REPORT
The reduction of 20, 000 million yen in the overall personal
inccme tax in the 1950-51 fiscal year and the raising of the
exemption limit fcr the middle bracket wage earners are being
generally ha:led as the chief features of the tax reform recom-
mendetious revealed yesterday by the Shoup Tax Mission. These
points, of course, do not tell the whole story.
The sunmary report of the recommendations proper shows all
the marks of a careful and thorough study of the whole scope of
the Japanese tax prehlam Egery possible angle has been covered
to insure a fundamental reform of the tax system. For their efforts,
the Japanese pecple we the members of the tax mission a deep debt
of gratitude.
Reveal ing the thorough nature of the survey conducted by the
American tax experts, the recommendations have a broad base. The
problems of everyone who spends money or earns an income have been
covered and in a manner where his tax burden is roughly propor-
tionate to his ability tc pay. Much of the inequities of the
present system are thus sdjusted.
The exemption limit for a middle-bracket wage earner has been
raised from 15, 000 yen to 24, 000 yen while the tax rate 1s graduated
with a top limit of 55 per cant for incomes topping 300, 000 yen.
Top bracket taxpayers are nc paying 80 per cent of their total
income. Since heavy taxes encourages deception, a "net fortune tax"
has been reeommended with a lcw rate starting with one half of. one
per cent at 5,000, 000 yen and rising to three per cent for 50, 000,000
yen.
Other recommendations include the abolition of the excess profit
tax which is considered too troublesome, the repeal of the textile
tax which is a tax on a necessity and not a luxury, and the increase
of the liquor and the gift and inheritance taxes. The repeal of the
controversial transaction tax is suggested only if the expenditures
of the national government, aside from debt reduction and grants
to the localities: are reduced next year to 450,000 million yen or
less.
One of
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2
to Despatch No. 609,
September 3, 1949.
-2
One of the chief recommendations of the Shoup report con-
cerns the local governments. The tax mission has recognized the
fact that local governments need more tax revenues if the program
of local autonomy is to be furthered. For this purpose, the Shoup
suggestion calls for the increasing. of revenues on the local level
of the cities, towns and villages to 120,000 million yen from the
present 80,000million yen.
As pointed out by Dr. Carl S. Shoup, head of the tax mission,
the recommendations are based within the framework of the balanced?
budget policy adopted by the Japanese Government this year at the
suggestion of Joseph M. Dodge. who was here earlier this year as
ScAP's financial adviser. And, in truth, it must not be forgotten
that both the Suoup and the Dodge recommendations fcrm a vital
part of the Nine-Point Economic Stabilization Program announced for
Japan in December, last year. calling for a stern economic austerity
program as a necessary step to sconomic recovery.
The Shoup suggestions on the bases of the tax reform to be
instituted here. of course. are not a panacea for all budgetary and
financial ills. Much more remains to be done. It must be remembered.
that the total amount of tax revenues depends upon the amount of
governrent spending and the axtent of debt retirament to be assumed
by the government. It calls for a closer focus on the whole of the
nation's administrative, economic, and social needs.
It must also be kept in mind thet the "recommendations for a
fair and economically beneficial tax system cannct be of practical
significance unless taxpeyers are willing to comply. with the law,
and tax aaministrators are able and determined to enfcrce the law
fully and not arbitrarily." It means that both the government and
the people must show positive willingness to tax themselves and to
retrench..
To be sure, much will depand upon how the Diet will act upon
these recommendations. Ample room has been left in the Shoup
report for vigcrous exchange of opinion among the people, and every
taxpayer should feel it his reaponsibility to study the recommenda-
tions carefully. It would be a sorry thing to have the tax issue
made a political football. But a careful study. of the Shoup recom-
mencetions should convince the people that in view of all the
difficultiss they have the makings of a tax system which is just
about as effective as could be worked out at this time.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 600
dated September 3, 1949 from the
UNCLASSLFIED
United States Politioal Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Recom-
mendations of Shoup Taxation Mission
(Copy of artiole published August 28, 1949,
by the Nippon Times, Tokyo)
SHOUP:S TAX PLAN STRONGLY BACKED BY EXPERTS HERE
Bright Hope Injected Into Nation's Industries,
Trade Chief Says
*****
Dr. Carl S. Shoup left Haneda Airport 1l:50 p.m. Friday for the
United States by an Army plane.
The Government will try to reduce taxes even more than is recom-
mended by the Shoup Mission, Finance Minister Hayato Ikeda declared
yesterday
Should the recommendations be applied to the 1949 income taxes,
Mr. Ikeda said, the revenue would be ¥2lo billion. s the amount in
the budget is 3lo billion, the balance will be loo billion or 
lo0 billion reduction, he added..
"If the taxation laws now in crce are applied to the l950 fiscal
year," Mr. Ikeda continued, "the expected revenue will be ¥400 billion,
provided the national income increases by some 10 per cent." The
balance between this. amount and the recommended ¥29o billion will be
¥llo billion, he said.
Ylo0 Billion Reduction
"At any rate, the tax reduction will amount to loo billion or
one-third of the total," he said.
According to the Shoup recommendations, subsidies to provincial
governments will be greatly increased, Mr. Ikeda said. Furthermore,
the Government intends to rehabilitate disaster-devastated areas at
the expenses of the Government.
"However, provincial governments should try to economiz• for a
tax reduction," he stated.
The Shoup recommendations have certainly injected bright hopes
into the nation's industries in general, declared International. Trade
and Industry Minister Heitaro Inagaki in a press interview.
Mr. Inagaki
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure. No. 3,
to Despatch No. 609,
September 3, 1949.
2
Mr. Inagaki said the taxation rate on business profits accru-
ing from the enterprise assets revaluation is, according to the
recommendation, set at 6 per cent instead of 10 per cent as anti-
cipated hitherto in the nation's industrial circles. In this sense,
the Shoup recommendations can be taken as favorable, he added.
A Timely Idea
That the recommendations calls on the enterprises to retain
their profits accruing from the assets re-appraisal, instead of
selling them out for capitel increase, bespeaks a timely idea for.
staving off deflation, Mr. Inagaki said.
The International Trade and Industry Minister also predicted
that the Shoup recommendations will boost general industrial stocks.
Meanwhile, Financa Ministry authorities expect to effect more
than a Wio billion tax reduetion within the current fiscal year,
sources close to the ministry revealed.
It was pointed out a ¥1s, 700 million cut, including 8, 300
million in the earned income tax and ¥8,400 million in the enter-
prise income tax, will be possible if the recommended tax slash
plan is put into force within this year.
No Positive Views
The ministry authorities are said to have no positive views on
the recommended raise in the liquor tax... If the raise is enforced
on and after November 1. revenue from this source is expected to
increase by ¥4,200 million..
The Shoup reconmendations were "progressive in setting the
maximum tax rate on incomes at 55 per cent, Mr. Masuda said, add-
ing tha: the rate is 92 per cent in England, 88 per.cent in France
and 85 per cent in the United States. He added that the recom-
mendations are the more significant when the country thinks of the
vital need for accumulation of capital.
If a. revision is to be made in the earned income tax exemption
in October, it will not go into effect until January.1, next year
when it will be promulgated by law. The revision however will be
applied retroactively to October. this year.
On the basis of the recommendations, GHQ will study the entire
budget program for the current and next fiscal year supplementary
budgets, Mr. Masuda said. "Therefore, about a month will be re-
quired to make a final decision on the budget problem," he added.
Under the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3,
to Despatch No. 609.
September 3, 1949.
Under the circumstances, an extraordinary Diet session will
be held not later than November, he said.
The Shoup recommendations calling for revaluation of corporate
assets and at the same.time repeal of excess profits taxes will
'make it possible for enterprises to accumulate capital, eventual-.
ly contributing much toward the nation's recovery, a spokesman for
the Federation of Economic Organizations declared.
He added that these recommendations also would facilitate
introduction of foreign cupital investments in Japan.
Desires Realized
Conmenting on the stetement made by Dr. Shoup, the spokesman
opined that the desires of the nation's financial circles in con.
nection with the nation"s tax reform have been almost realized in
these recormendations.
He noted, however, that there are some points still left for
further discussion He pcinted out in this connection the problem
of whether enterprises' reserve fund after the revaluation of
corporate assets should be taxed or not, He also pointed to the
relatively heavy earned income taxes.
In a nutshell, the spokesman said, the Shoup reccmmendations
aim at reducing the burden accruing from the national taxes while
boosting the local taxes. The recommendetions, in other words,
would require of the Japanese people an austere life, because they
do not revise the tax burden of the inaividual Japaness people.
Meanwhile. Dr. Hyoe Ouchi, chairman of the Cabinet Statistics
Comnission. declared that Dr. Shoup has done a nice job in putting
Japan's prosaic and loose-jointed. taxation syster in good order.
Foliow D:ige Plan
Elaborating on Dr, Shoup's recommendations, Dr. Cuchi said
that the reconmended repeal of the inventory profit tax and excess
profits tax falls in line with the Dodge Stabilization Plan.
It is well, Dr. Ouchi continued, that Dr. Shoup has urged
reduction of the current rate of the earned income tax. But. he
said, the level recommended for basic exemption of indivicual tax-
payers is still considered too low.
Seiichi Katsumata, Chief of the Social Democratic Party's
Political Affairs Research Department, said he was personelly
disappointed over the tax recommendations revealed earlier in the
day by the Shoup Mission.
He said
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3
to Despatch No. 609,
September 3, 1949.
He said that his party had expected that a tax reduction
reaching some ¥100,000,000,000 would be realized as against the
¥60,000,000,000 as recommended by the mission.
The reduction of the wage tar, he also said, did not meet
his general expectation.
Both of the two rival factions. of the Democratic Party wel-
comed the Shoup recommendations, noting that they will promcte
capital accumulation.
Ignored by Reds
The Conmunist Party organ Red Flag provided a journalistic
exception by coldly ignoring the news of the Shoup ission's tar.
program, which to all other Japanese editors was the biggest news
of the day.
All other newspapers bannered the news and most papers devoted
their entire front pages to carry details of the tax reform program
The Red Flag had its own banner, which read: "Anti-Communist
Plot Over Mitaka Railway Incident Brought to Light."
The Red Flag's only tax story of the day, on the back page,
was, "Governor Evades Tax for Three Years."
Benefits for Farmers
The Shoup recommendations are expected to alleviate tax
burdens on agrarian conmunities, griculture-Forestry Ministry and
agrarian organization quarters believe..
According to these quarters, however, the staple food quota
delivery system shculd be further rationalized if taxes are to be
collected from Government payments to farmers for crops delivered,
as recommended by the Shoup Mission.
With the tax on the consumption of textiles expected to be
alleviated, it is believed the price of silk yarn will rise, thus
giving impetus to the silk industry.
With the tax on the acquisition of real estates, farmers will
find it comparatively easy to build their own dwelling houses,
they think.
Producers of vegetables and fruits, however, will suffer un-
favorable tax impositions as the present taxation method is retained,
they believe.
Tenant fees
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 3
to Despatch No. 609
September 3, 1949.
Tenant fees will be raised, with the land tax. It. is ex-
pected that the fees will be raised from the prement 75 to some
¥600 per "tan."
Nagata-Hails.Reforma
At last, a rationalized tar system based on actualties, has
been achieved, aeclared Dr. Kiyoshi Nagata, chairman of the Taxa-
tion System Investigation Council, in commenting upon Mr. Shoup's
/line missing/ took into consideration the opinion of the Taxation
System Investigation Council, and that shows, he said, that he
planned a rationalization of the system to fit the actual condi-
tion of the country.
"It is notable that farmers and small shopkeepers are given
the right to deducticns for labor, in calculating their personal
income". Reduction of corporation tax and reappraisal of property
will contribute to the rationalization of enterprises and accumu-
lation of capital. Contributions to various expenditures, which
have become heavy burdens to local residents, are to be rational-
ized as taxes."
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.60)
A

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
CIm Press Conference on Summary of Reoommendations of:Tax Mss
26 August 1949.
Speaker: Dr. Carl S. Shoup, Chairman, Shoup Taxation Assion
The recommendations of the tax mission cover four general topios. 
the total amount of taxation assumed to be necessary for the next fisoal
1950-51, and the proportions to be raised by the national government and the
local governments. Second, the major changes in the struoture of the tax
system, as for example, the part of the national total that is recommended
to be raised by the personal income tax. Third, the changes to be made with-
in each tax, as, for instance, the way in which members of a co-living family
shall be treated under the income tax. Fourth, some-administrative oonsidera-
tions, such as methods of inducing taxpayers to comply with the law, and of
allowing them to appeal against reassessments, and the role, if any, that
business associations should be allowed to play in getting the income tax
assessed and collected.
The report will present in detail not only the recommendations, but the
reasons why they were reached. It is hoped that through the publioation of
this report an intelligent discussion of the Japanese tax system will develop.
in the press, in national and local tax offices throughout the country, in
business circles, in women's organizations, and in the universities and
secondary schools.
The total amount of tax revenue to be collected during the fiscal year
1950-51 is assumed to be only slightly less than during the current fisoal
year. This is partly because the danger of further inflation has not yet
disappeared, and partly because the local governments need more tax revenue
of thoir own, if the program of local autonomy is to be maintained. However,
these remarks do not include the so-called voluntary contributions colleoted
in most localities, often to erect school buildings, or to supply other
local services. It is oxpected that these locel contributions will deorease
greatly next year, if the local governmonts have adequate tax souroes of
their own. If the voluntary contributions are counted in with taxes, as
indeed for most purposes they should be, the program recommended by the tax
mission assumes an appreciablo, but not a substantial, reduction in total
revenue.
Moreover, the détermination of the total amount of tax revenue to be
raised is not the primary responsibility of the tax mission, for that amount
depends partly on the amount of governmont expenditures and the extent to
which tho government debt should be retired. The policy on these two issues
must continue to bo that formulated under the Dodgo Stabilization Plan,
namely, continued roduction in national government expenditures, chiefly
through the reduction of price subsidies, and continuod debt retirement.
The assumptions made are that the total national government revenue from
taxes in 1950-51 will be 576 billion yen, compared with 635 billion yen.
budgeted for the current year. It is also assumed that in 1951-52 the
national'government's need for tax revenue will be somowhat lower than for
1950-51,. owing to continued retrenchmont in expenditures.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Both of these totals of tax revenue include 120 billion yén
the governmont tobacco monopoly. In addition, the national govern
al acoount is assumed to receive about 70 billion yan frem miscellame
ceipts, the same. amount as budgeted for this year.
The total of local tax revenue is assumed to rise from 1s0 billion yem
this year to 190 billion yen in 1950-5l, if the voluntary contributions are
not counted. If thcyaro counted, it is difficult to expross the result in
figures, since the total amount of such contributions is not known, but it
as seems possible, they are as much as 40 billion yen this yoar, and if they
decline to 10 billion yen next year, the totel of local governmont taxos
and contributions rises only slightly, from l90 billion yen this yoar to
200 billion yen noxt year. The local governments are also expeotedto oon-
tinue to receive 25 billion yen a yoar from ronts, fees, and other miscel-
lancous souroes. "ifiscellaneous" does not inolude borrowed money.
Total taxos, national and local, are therefore assumed to total 766 bil-
lion yon in 1950-5l, compared with a budgoted amount of 785 billion yen for
1949-50, a deorease of about 20 billion yen, if voluntary contributions are
not taken into account. If they are inoluded, the tax total declines from
about 825 billion yon to about 776 billion yen, though both thoso totals
are conjectural owing to lack of information on contributions.
The tax mission recommends that the personal income tax continue to be
the major source of revenuo for the national governnent, but that the re-
venue from this source be decreased slightly next yoar, to about 290 billion
yen from the 3lo billion yon budgoted for the current year. . The decrease
in rates and incroase in exomptions is considorably greater than this small
decline would suggost. This is possiblo partly because it is expected that
taxable personal incomes will be somewhat greater in 1950 than in 1949, oven
if business activity merely levels off, and assuming no rise in prices. An-
other reason why so much can be expected from the personal income tax in
1950-5l is that oollections of baok taxes will still be large, in view of
the assessmonts made at the high rates in force the present year. Ultimate-
ly, the personel income tax yield would be expected to level off at ebout
278 billion yen, if business cctivity and the price lovel did not change,
and if thero were no improvement in th: degron of taxpayers' compliance with
the law, and in the efficioncy of thd tax administration. Aotually, it is
expected that the lower rates cnd highor exomptions recommonded by the
mission would have a favorable effect on both those factors. The yield
might thorofore be expected to lovel off at a somewhat higher figure, but,
in order to take no chanccs with tho nation's ecenomio stability, it is best
not to count on those factors for the immediate future.
The mission rocommends that, with respect to the small number of well-
to-do-persons, the present very high top rates of the income tax be re-
placod by a tax on tho net fortuns, or not worth, of theso individuals.
Under t his recommendotion, an individual with threo dependents and a large
income would pay only 55 per cent income tax on all that part of his inoome
in exooss of. 360,000 yen, but he would also pay an annual low-rato property
tax on his net worth (his total assets, minus his total liabilities). The

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
 would start at 1/2 of 1 por cont on that part of him
at these rates, itwould not be a paying proposition for the weal
instead of loaving itw here it could earn interest and dividegeee The
of the inoomo tax do not add muoh to revenue, at least under present o
tions whoro tho number of wealthy taxpayers is small. The mission pdinte
out, howevor, that the fact that a cortain group of toxpayers is smmll in
number is no recson for oxousing thom from paying their fair share of the
tax bill.
The rolo of the 'income taxos on corporations docreases, under the tax
mission's rocommendations, providod all the other recommendations of the
mission regarding ways to s top evasion and avoidance of the porsonal inoome
tax by well-to-do invostors are adopted, and providod that the net worth
tax on those individuals also is adopted. It is racommended that the
excoss profits tax bo ropealed, effective January 1, 1950; it is too compli-
cated a tax to bo satisfactory during peacetime, at least under presont
conditions in Japan. Tho corporation tax rate romains at 35 per cunt, but
thoro is a 6 per cont tax on the inoroase in book value of assots that
occurs under t he rovaluation of assets that is recommended by the mission
The net rosult of these corporato tax rocommendations is that corporations
are estimated to pay considorably more next year than the budget ostimate:
of 27 billion yon for this yoar. Aotually, it appears that collootions thi
year may reach noarly 50 billion yon, end it is approximmtoly this amount
which is oxpeotod from corporetions underthe recommondations for next yoar.
Repeal of the oxoess profits tax, and allowance of extra depreciation that
will.rosult from the rovaluation of assets, will losc about 3o billion yon
of revenuo next yoar, but the rovaluation tax will bring in about so billion
yen. The total yiold of the revaluation tax might bo as much as 6o billion
yen, but tho mission rocomnends that only ono-half the tax be paid next.
yoar. One-quarter would be duo in 1951-52 and one-quarter in 1952-65. In
later years, after the rovaluation tax hed been paid in full, but whilo the
effect of the higher depreciation and the ropoal of tho exoess profits tax
was still being folt, the yield of the corporation tax would drop baok to
20 billion yen or 30 billion yon annually.
In the opinion of tho tax mission, profits earned in the corporato forn
should not be taxed moro heavily merely because they arise under that form.
On the other hand, use of the corporation as a means of avoiding tho porson-
al inoome tax, or postponing payment of that tax for a long period, should
not bo pormitted.
Taxos on gifts during lifetime and on decondonts' estates aro estimatod
to yiold only 2 billion yen this year. The mission rocognisos that this
tax is not likoly to be a major source of revenuo, but it recommends a
substantial ohange in tho manner of imposing tho tax, whioh should even-
tually incroase the yiold cnd also mako tho tax more equitablo.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
No chango in tho rolo of tho tobecco monopoly, which contributoe
billion yen profit to tho goneral account, is rocommonded.
The mission bolioves that the prepont rates of tho liquor taxes wes
put at too low a lovel whon they were decreasod in the spring of 1949, in
what was said to bo an effort to maxiizo revonuo. It is reoommended 
tho rates be inoreased, in tho expectation thit tho liquor tax revonue wou
rise to at least 80 billion yen next year and probably to higher levels.
Comploto repeal of the textile taxes is recommended by the mission.
For the most part, these'are taxes on necessaries of life. Some part of
the expenditures on textiles are of a somewhat luxury nature, but it is
diffioult to isolate and measure that part: moreover, the produoors of
silk are undergoing a sovere roadjustment and should not be further im=
perilled by a continuance of the 40 per cent tax on silk. The tax is recommend
ed for repeal as of March 1, 1950, exoept that the 40 per cent rate should be
cut to 10 per cent as soon as possible, to lessen the transitional offeot
that may bo caused as silk merchants try to koop invontorios at a minimum
in anticipation of the forthcoming tax deorease. Tho textile tax is esti-
mated to yield 17 billion yen in 1949-50.
The commodity taxes, or excise taxes, which are estimated to yield
27 billion yon this yoar, are rocommended for continuance at the same
lovol of yiold next year. They aro, in general, taxcs on luxuries, and
as such are needed at the prosont time. Some minor changes,
are reconmended.
The mission recommends that tho transactions tax be ropealod, but only
if the oxpenditures of the nationcl govornnont, aside from dobt roduotion
and grants to the localities, are reduced next year to 450 billion yen or
less. Otherwiso, rovenue needs dictato maintaining the transaotions tax.
In any event, a certain minirum amount of roduction in tho porsonal income
tax, and the repeal of the textile taxes are given priority over cny re-
duction or ropoal of tho transactions tax. However, the transactions tax
is not a desirable kind of tax, in tho opinion of the mission, and it should
in no case be increased. from the present 1 por cent levol. Its yield for
the present fiscal yoar is ostimated ot 45 billion yèn.
Othor intornal revonue taxes of a minor naturo total 22 billion yen in
this year's budget, and no substantinl ohangcs are reoommondod for the
prosent in this area,' henco about tho same yield is expeoted next year.
At the local level, the mission recommends that tho prefactures got.
about the same amount of monoy from their om taxes next yoar as they
are schoduled to, roceive this year (about 7o billion yen). However, it
is rocommended that this money come chiefly from three taxos, each of
them to be solely tho proporty of the prefoctures, in placc of the prosont
systom, whoroby the profocturos sharo with the cities, towns, and villagos the
proceods from sovon important taxos.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Under tho plan of tho tax mission, tho prefooturos woulda
40 cnd 5o billion yon from tho ontorpriso tax, which at presont
billion yon to the profootures and anothor 26 billion yen to the
tios. Thus tho enterprise tax would docline slightly in importanee
is also rooommondod that the bese of tho tax be ohanged from profita
a broador base, known as "valuo-added," to bo explained below.
Tho prefeoturcs would got another 1o billion yon from tho admissions
tax and slightly more than this from the amusomont taxes. It is recommondo
that the rato of the admissions tax bo reduoed fron tho prosont 150 per oont
to l00 per cent, whoroby the yield would drop fron its current estiated
lovel of 14 billion.
A few miscollanoous taxes would bring tho profocturos anothor 5 billion
yon.
The mission roconmonds that the real property acquisition tax be re-
poaled. This tax hindors tho transfor of proporty, thus prevonting it from
boing put to its bost use. Tho tax is also too great a capital chargo
on tho building of a now structuro.
Also recommonded for ropeal is the local tax of 5 por cont on retail
sclo of liquor, in view of tho recommendation for strongthening the liguor
tax at the national level.
The tax mission recommends that the citios, towns, and villagos be
givon additional taxing power sufficiont to raiso their rovonue frem the
noarly 80 billion yen ostimatod for the ourrent yoar to nearly 120 bil-
lion yen for the year 1950-5l. The mission expresses tho opinion that the
noed for further financial support for local autonory is acute in the
municipalities, rather than in tho profootures.
Tho 120 billion yen would come alnost ontirely from tvo major taxos,
tho inhabitant's tcx and tho land and houso tax. The municipalities
would have exclusive use of theso taxes, instoad of sharing the proceeds
with tho prefoctures as at presont. On the other hand, the municipalitios
would no longer get ? share in tho ontcrprise tax, tho admissions tax, or
the amusoment tcxos, and would lose their current rovenue fron tho roal
property acquisition tax and the liquor consurption tax, owing to tho rd-
poal of theso levios.
Tho land and house tax, undor the mission's rocommendations, would
bo extended to bocomo a tax on all real estate and dopreciable proporty,
and the ourront rato would be raised, so that tho yiold would increase
from the 14 billion yen estimated for tho curront yoar, to slightly more
than 50 billion yen.
Miscellaneous. taxes would account for 7 billion yon for the munici-
palities instead of ll billion yon as at prosont.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
The tax mission recommends a large number of changes in the definit
of the tax base, and in the tax rates. The more important of these reod
tions are given here.
For the personal income tax, the mission recommends:
1. An increase in the personal exemption, from 15,000 yen a year to
24,000 yen. Part of this increase, as explained below, represents a combining
of part of the present earned income credit with the personal exemption..
2. A change in the dependent credit, equivalent to.an inorease. At.
present, the taxpayer is allowed a credit against the tax, a credit of
1,800 yen per dependent. It is recommended that. this allowance be ohanged
to a deduction from income, and set at 12,O00 yen per dependent. Tho present
credit against the tax adds 9,000 yen to tho exemption lovel for the first two
dependents and slightly less than 9,000 yen for the third and following
dependents.
3. An absorption of part of the presont earned income oredit into the
personal exemption, so that tho only part of the present 25 per oent earned
income crodit that continues to appear as a distinct itom on tho rgturn
is a 10 por cent allowance. In this way, 15 per cent out of the present
25 per cent allowanco is in offect extended to farmers and business men,
indeed, to ovory one. The mission belioves that the presont 25 per cent
difference betwcon the wage or salary earnor and the small business man or
farmor is too great. In principlo, this could be alterod by keeping the full
25 per cent crodit for tho wage and salary earnor and extending a 15 por cont
oredit to the farmer and small business man. This is in fact just what is
rocommended for the balance of the present year, from October 1,l949; to
December 31, 1949. But as a pormanent:mothod, it is undesirable because it
runs contrary to simplification of the tax-return form. Consequently,
instead, the personal exomption is increased,in tho mission's plan, much more
than would otherwise have been rocommended. This moans that 15 per cont out
of tho prosent 25 per cent credit is cxtonded evon to invostors who have no
true oarned inoome, but this is a slight defect that is permittod in order to
gain greater simplicity of the tax-return form; that form will then need to have
only one line for earned income credit (10 per cent for wago and salary earners)
instcad of two linos (25 por cont for wage and salary earners and 15 percent
for farmers and othor unincorporatod businessos). Maximum earned incomo.credit
is limitod to 20,000 yen.
4. A loworing of the schedule of income tax rates. A copy of tho
schodule recommended by tho mission is givon below.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-72
Taxablo Inaomo Bracket
50,:000
20%
80,000
25%
80,000 - 100,000
30%
100,000 - 120,000
35%
120,000 - 150,000
40%
150,000 - 200,000
45%
200,000 - 300,000
50%
over 300,000
55%
The most striking feature of tho rate scalo is that the top rate is only
55 por cent. This 55 por cont rato applies to that part of a taxpayer's
income that excceds 300,000 yen. Tho tax nission is of tho opinion that
unduly harmful ocononic offocts can bc avoidod if tho top rate impomed
on the woll-to-do taxpayers vith incones ovor 300,00o yon is limitod to
55 per cent. This reconmendation is depondent on tho onaotmont of a net
worth tax doscribod in 6, below.
5. A fow illustrations will indicate tho extont of the tax reduotion
recommonded under 1 to 4, above. A married man vith two dopendent
children, whose incono is from an unincorporated businoss or a farm, with
a net incomo of 100,000 yen before deduoting the peraonal oxomption or
tho allowanco for depondents, will pay 8,Ooo yon income tax, instead. of
17,850 yon as at present. This is the typo of taxpayer who receives tho
largest porcentago tax rolief, under the mission's proposals. Such
taxpayers have becn discriminated against in rocent yoars, becaugo of the
unduly largo differential in favor of workers through the oarnod inoome
oredit and the relativoly small allowanco for dependonts. A taxpayer
with the same family, but an income of 200,000 yon would have his inoomo
tax reducod from 58,850 yen to 38,500 ycn. If his incono is 1,000,000
yon, tho tax falls from 567, 600 yon to 467, 000 yon; but such a taxpayor would
probably have a net worth of nore then 5,000, 000 yen and honce also pay
something under the net worth tax.
A marricd man with two dopondont children who garns 100,o00 yon as wages
or salary would find his tex roduced from 9,600 yon to 6,000 yen. At a
200,000 yon salary his tax would fa11 from 42,100 yon to 30,500 yen. At
1,000,000 yen sclary tho tax fal1s from 541,350 yen to 456,000 yon. This
miliion-yon individucl might own little or no property, hence not be
subject to tho net worth tax.
For single persons with no dependents tho offoct of the tax roduction
is less marked; having no depondonts, they do not get the bonofit of tho
increase in the dopendents allowance. If tho net incomo is from farming
or unincorporcted business and is 100,000 yen, the doclino in income tax
is fron 23,250 yen to 16, 500 yon. If the not incone is 200,000, the tax
falls from 64,250 yen to 54,200 yen. At 1,000,000 inoomo tho tax fal1s from
573,000 yen to 486,800 yon, but this individuc1 is likely to bo subject
to the net worth tax.
A single wago or salary earnor with no dependents, net inoome
100,000 yen, would have his tax roduced from 15,000 to 14,000 yon.
This

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
8
rolatively smaller reduction roflects the tax mission's view that eo
with other typos of inoono taxpayors, the single wago ocrner with no
dependonts has beon given rather favorable treatment under the presant
lcw. Moreover, the mission recommonds the repeal of tho present:provtoion
that roquires all mombors of a co-living family to filo a joint roturm,
This recomondation givos relief to many single taxpayors, a relief not
refleoted in tho example just stated. At 200,000 yon net inoome the ro-
duotion in tax is from 47,500 yen to 45,200 yon. At 1,000,000 yen the tax
falls from 546,750 yen to 475,800 yon.
Tho mission warns against plccing too much omphasis on these oomparisons
of national income tax alone. On tho ono hand, tho increaso recom onded in
tho local inhabitant's' tax makes tho total incomo tax roduction less than
tho national figuros alone indicate. On the other hand, the effeot of the
mission's plan on the low-income taxpayers must take into account the reoom-
mendation that tho textilo tax be repealed, that the rate of the admissions
tax be lowered, and tha't, if governnont oxpenditures drop to a spocified
lovol, tho transactions tcx bo repoaled. The mission emphasizes that each
one of its reconmondations is related to all the othors. "What wo are
recommending is a tax system, not a number of isolatod measures having no
conneotion with one another".
A number of othor changes are rocomonded for the income tax inoludings
a liboralizod dofinition of a dopendont; a provision for avoraging the
income fron author's royaltios and'othor irrogular incomo so that the
taxpayer will not bo unfairly pushed up into tho highor rato brackets: a
spacial additional oxomption of 12,000 for the blind and othors with
oxtrome physiccl handicaps; and doduction of medical oxpenses and loss of
property duo to accidont or theft, to the oxtont that the total of such
expensos and losses excoeds 10 por cont of the not incono. Tho mission
rocomends full inclusion of capital gains in taxable incomo, not meroly
50 per oont as ct prosent, with the following provisions: full deduotion
of capital losses; tho gains and losses to be averaged forward ovor five
years to keep the taxpayor frombeing pushed up into the highor rato braokets:
and no gains or losses to bo taken into account if thoy result under.a
fluctuation of the price level of noro than 15 por cont, so that mere paper
gains will not bo taxed, and nore papor lossos not allowod. The mission
emphasizes that full inolusion of capital gains and losses, with those
qualificctions, is an essential.part of its plan to prevent tho double
taxation of corporation income and the avoidance of personal incomo tax
through retention of oarnings in c corporation. If capital gains and
lossos wore only partly takon into account, or wore ignored, the whole
structure of corporation and individual incono taxation would have to be
changed, and harsher and less fair neasures would havo to bo inposod.
With respect to foroign nationals, the mission beliovos that the top
rate of 55 per cent (plus a fow points under the inhebitant's tax) should
not prove an important barrier to their activity in Jepan. The net worth
tax would apply to foroign nationals only in exceptional cases, and, depend-
ing on the degree of enoouragement that is dosired to be acoorded then, they
might or might not bo oxempted entiroly from the net worth tax. The
mission recormends, moroover, that whon adequate experionoe has been
obtainod with the net worth tax to show that it is a reliable souroe of
revenuo, the top ratos of tho incomo tax should then be further roduoed to
50% or even 45%

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
he net worth tax is recormshdod at ratos whi
to be paid out of income. The spocific ratos reodn
fo1llows:
Net worth up to 5,000,000'yen i's exompt.
Individuals with not worth of nore than 5,000,000 yen wou1d
on that part of the not worth in oxcoss of 5,000,000 yon but not in
of 10 illion yon, 0.5 per cent (one-half of ono per cent) on that part
For tho 10 million yon to 20 million yen bracket the rate would be 1.0
per cent; for tho 20 illion to 50 million bracket, 2.0 per cent: for the
part above 50 million, 3.0 por cont.
t thoso ratos it would hardly ovor pay the taxpayer to try to evade
the tax by hiding his assots in a non-inoone producing form, as in bank
notes or procious stones. In the first placc, he would almost surely bo
found out sooner or later, sinco t he income tax assessor has an intorest
in checking on tho taxpayer's not worth, to find out if he has reportod his
income corrootly, from dividonds, interost, and rontalsstthet tho taxpayer
givos a gift or leaves an estato at death, a similar reohecking ocourss
when he sells an asset and is taxed on the gain or wants a doduction for.
the loss, ho is chocked again. And his holdings of real ostate will be
subject to chock undor tho loccl housc and land tax. The four taxes (inoome
tax, net worth tax, tax on gifts and boquests, and land and house tax) so
interlock that any attonpt at ovasion would bocomo quite hasardous for tho
taxpayer.
In the socond placc, the mission points out, if the woalthy individual
is willing to put his wealth whore it will oarn a good roturn, the combined
burdon of the incono tax and the net worth tax will still leave him something,
whoroas if ho hoards his wealth ho gets zero incomo from it. An investor
subject to tho top rato of 55 por cont, and getting 10.por cont on his
investment, will loso 15 yen c year on cach 1,000 yon of capital if he
hoards his wealth in non-income producing forn, ovon if he succossfully
and illegelly ovades the net worth tax at tho top (3 per cent) rate. And
if his hoard is discovered and assossod, ho would have lost 45 yen a yoar
by hoarding. If hc pays net worth tax at only tho O.5 per cent rate, hoe
obtains no incono if ho hoards, but if c invosts at 10 per cont he would
obtain, eftor. paying tho income and net worth taxos, a nst roturn of 40 yen
on each 1,000 yon of capital.
For the corporation incomo tax, in addition to tho changos al roady
notod earlier, the mission recomends that the prosont 2o por cont with-
holding rato on dividonds bo ropealcd, sinco the 35 per cent tax on oorporato
profits is itsolf to bo considerod a withholding tax. Tho stookholder
recoiving tho dividond is given a crodit against his individual tax of
25 por cent of dividonds ho roccivos, to conponsato for tho 35 per cont tax
paid by the corporation. Still, porsonal incono tax can bo indofinitely
postponod by the corporation's retaining oarnings instead of distributing
them prorptly as dividonds; so, to componsato the govornmont for tho lose
of intorest it suffers from such postponomont of personal tax paymont, it
is rocormendod that the corporation pay an intorost surcharge lbvy of

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
-10
1 per cont a year on the carnings that it reteins. 'This applios only to
ings mmde in 1950 and later yoars, not to the surplus alroady, acoumulat
boforo 1950.
A mumber of probloms common to the corporatfon inoome tax and the persona
income tax are treated by tho mission.
First, the essential steps in the rocommended program for revaluation of
assots are givon in the main report, and full details in an appondix to
tho roport, both of which will be published shortly.
Sccond, it is rccommended that tho special 65 per cont tax on inventory
profits be ropealod excopt wherc the rise in inventory is duo to a prioe rise
following the abolition of subsidies.
Third, net losses should be carried over to other yoars to be offset
against the incomc of those years, and, in the opinion of the mission, there
should be a limited carry-back as well as a cerry-forward.
Fourth, an option to the taxpayer to use any one of several methods of
accounting for inventory and for dopreciation, undor proper safeguards, is
recommended.
Fifth, stricter enforcoment of the provisions against deducting capital.
outlays all in one year is urgod, as also disallowance of heavy entertainment
expenses now commonly deducted as business expenses.
For the rest of the national taxes, the statements made earlier in tho.
report indicato the changes recommended by the mission.
Among the locsl taxes, it is rocommendod that the inhabitant's tax
contain simply the flat per capita alement and an income olement, not a
property element, in viow of tho taxation of proporty recommonded under the
now house and land tax and the not worth tax. Tho municipalitios could
levy the incomo olement oithor as a percentago of the netional personal
income tax, or as a percentago of th? incomo (after exomptions) used in
computing the national tax, or as a porcentago of the incomo left aftor
deduoting both the national tax and tho porsonal exemptions. The tax could be
either flat-rato or progrossive. Maximum rates would be 20 per cont, 10 por
cont, and 20 por cont, rospoctively, for the three mothods.
Tho land and house tax, undor the mission's rocommendations, is transformed
into a tax on the capital value of land, buildings, and other.depreciable.
property, not including stock in trade, securities, cash, and other non-de-
preciable assets. An appraisal at curront values is recommended, except that
farm land is to be valued at tho official price, multiplied by an adjustment
factor designod solely for tho purposos of this tax; this factor is not to
exceed 25, and is to be roduced if tho official prico of farm land rises.
The enterprise tax is recommended for revision, by enlarging the tax base
from profits to "value-added". The tax would be imposed on gross receipts minus
the cost of everything bought from other businoss firms, including capital
oquipment like buildings and machinery. Thero would

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
shorcforo bo no doprociation accounting involvod, and no invont
Amothor way of dofining tho now tax baso is to say it is the sum
intorost paid, rontal paid, and payrolls. This baso is choson boe
oconomically ncutral. It doos not favor tho vortically integrated
and docs not discriminatc against tho uso of machinery and other caps
oquipment. Farmers would be exempt from tho tax.
Tho mission places great emphasis on the need for greatly improved
administration of the tax laws. Its recomnondetions for a fair and
economically beneficial tax systom cannot be of practical signifioance
unless taxpayers are willing to comply with the law, and tax administrators
are able and determined to onforce the law fully and not arbitrarily. : Muoh
more improvement along these lines is noeded, in the opinion of the mission,
although a good start has been made at the national level with the rocent
ostablishment of tho Tax Adninistretion Agonoy, the'National Tax Inapectors
and the National Tax Invostigators. The mission recommonds that the number
and the quality of national tax personnel be inoreased well above the lovels
resulting from the rocont twenty por cent docrease in nunber of authorised
personnel. At the local lovel, too, increases in nuriber and quality are.
deemod necessary.
The scope of the mission's task did not extend to all matters of detail
in administration, but tho nission's report does present, in a separate
ohaptor, a number of specific recomend: tions for improving the processes of
assessment, appeal, and litigation undor tho national inoone tax. Among those
recomhendations arc the following: that business associetions be not allowed
to have anything to do with deteraining the amount of income tax their
mombors pay; that a speoial group of officials in the national tax offices
serve as a Conference Group to confer with the taxpayer when he cannot reach
agreement with the official who made the original reassessnent; that a
special "blue return" form bo available to business men and farmers under
the personal income tax if they keep books in accordance with standards laid
'down by the Ministry of Finance, and those who meet the requirements for.
filing on such a return be assured that they will not be reassessed without
exanination of their books; that most farmers be reliovod of the neceasity of
filing declarations of estimmtod incone, and be requirod to pay at the time
they recoive money fron the sale of crops, by a systen of withholding at the
source on payments made to then by government bodies for their crops, and
that this be coupled with a uch closer approximtion to each farmer's
actual income as shown by production rocords and othor data relating to
hin, in place of using averago data for an area; that a special tax court be
set up to handlo tax casos; and that the role of the cortifiod publio
acóountant bo groatly expanded.
i change in the fiscal rolations on the national, profectural, and
municipal govornmonts is rocommondod by tho mission. In placo of nany of
the speoific grants (subsidies) now mdo, a gonoral equalizing fund is
recomended; also a new body, a Looal Finance Comission, designed to
implemont the now intergovornmental rolations.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
The Tax Mission is composed of seven mombers, who spent about
months -of the sumer in Japan. The director of the mission is
Carl S. Shoup, of tho Sohool of Businoss and tho Graduate Faculty af
Scionce at Columbia University, Now York City. The other menbors of
mission and thoir professional conneotions are:
Dean Howard R. Bowon, College of Conmerce and Business Administration,
University of Illinois
Professor Jerome B. Cohen, Departmont of Economics, College of the City of
Now York.
Mr. Rolland F. Hatfield, Direotor of Tax Research, Department of Taxation, St.
Paul, Minnesota.
Professor Stanloy S. Surrey, School of Jurisprudence, University of Californio,
Berkeley, California.
Profossor Willian C. Warron, School of Law, Colunbia University. Now York
City.
Profossor Willian Vickroy, Graduate Faculty of Policitoal Science, Columbia
University, New York City.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
Office Memorandum . UNITED STATEs GOVER
: MA - Nr. Boha
TO
DATE: September
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 80d of September 3, 1949
The prinoiple Shoup Taxation Mission recommendations,
released on August 26, are considered to be (a) much broader
taxation powers for local governments; (b) a substantial
reduction (averaging 30 peroent) in the present high persemal
income tax rates, a provision designed to encourage voluntary
taxpayer compliance and to make effective tax enforoement
possible; (o) imposition of a "net worth" tax of one-half to
three percent on individuals with net properties in exeess
of 5 million yen - a provision designed to compensate for
the reduced income tax rates in the high brackets; (d) repeal
of the exoess profits tax, but retention of the normai
corporate income tax rate of 35 percent; (e) revaluation of
assets in order to refleot realistic depreciation charges
for tax purposes; (f) substantial revision of real estate
taxes to make them more produotive.
Dr. Shoup stated in his press conference that the
following tax recommendations were aimed partly at assisting
the position of foreign investsohts in Japan: the repeal of
the excees profits tax, the revaluation of assets, lower
taxes on dividends, and the elimination of the 20 peroent
withholding tax for aliens resident in Japan.
Japanese press and official reaction to the issuance of
the Shoup report has been very favorable. Most Japanese
observers have lauded the report'e effective attack on the
inequities of the present tax system and the fair way in
which Dr. Shoup has spread the tax burden. POLAD adds its
own words of praise for Dr. Shoup's competenoe, objectivity
and cooperativeness.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
KCD
Ation Aed TH
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Aot
noed
Dee. 1, gl
REC ID
United States Political Adviser
OCT 4
for Japan
Tokyo, September 28, 1949.
ACTION
1949 OCT 7 AM 10 17
ITP
MESSAGE CENTER
No. 677
INTERNATIONAL RESTURCES DIVISION
POL
INFO
RESTRICTED
Enc.ate
FR
OCT 7-1949
DC/R
THADE
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OLI
COM
TAR
Subject: Transmission of Memorandum regarding
Difficulties of Small Business in Japan.
scm
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a
copy of a memorandum dated September 22, 1949, on the subject
of "Difficulties of Small Business in Japan," prepared by Mr.
William L. MAGISTRETTI, American Vice Consul, Yokohama Division,
Office of the United States Political Adviser.
XR
Judging by accounts in the Japanese press, Mr. Magistretti's
summary of difficulties experienced by one Japanese businessman
of the small-scale type is not exaggerated. This is especially
true in regard to the high level of taxes paid by operators
willing to meet their legitimate tax obligations, whose problems
oftentimes are accentuated by failure of the Japanese Government
to pay them money long over-due.
cui
Enclosure:
Copy of memorandum dated September
22, 1949, subject "Difficulties of
Small Business in Japan".
.Parchment mat to the Department
OCT 20 1949
Copy to Yokohama
FILED
501.2
CHBoehringer:pf
RESTRICTED
2
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITEIN 14 DAYS. WITE

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 677
dated September 28, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject Trans-
RESTRICTED
mission of Xenorandum regarding
Difficulties of Small Business in
Japan"
(COPY)
LE.ORNLUN
Date: September 22, 1949
From:
Diplomatic Section, Yo cohama
To:
Diplonatic Sectior, Tokyo
SUBJECT: Difficulties of Snall Eusiness in Japan
The story of Mr. Yamada's business experience over the past
year is presented as illustrative of the various difficulties en-
countered by the small Japenese businessman and plant owner under
present conditions Mr Yamade. a good friend of some two years
stanaing, is the owmer, together with his brother, representative
from his District in the Lower Youse of the Diet. of a small
factory located in Omori. Tokyo. employin upproximately 150
persons and at present engeged in making machine gears and dryers
for the Japanese Government Special Procurement Office. hile the
plant itself was in eristence in pre-war days. it is sunmarized
from numerous conversations with Yanada thet it profitted con-
siderably from war orders und was left in a favor ble financial
condition at the termination of hostilities Thile the plant en-
countered sone labor difficulties during 1946 and 1947 these
became increasingly pronounced in the fell of 1948. The ovmer
discovered that there were three Conmunists among his employees
and that they had gained control of the remainder of his workers.
Despite long drawn out negotiations he found th:t there was no
recourse than to discharge all of his employees, paying them their
retirement bonuses. and to hire an entirely new staff. As a result,
the plant's efficiency has suffered to a considerable extent but
the plant is in production at present
On the other hand he has been feced with exceedingly heavy
taxes, estimeting that approximately 80 pereent of his own iucome
has been taken in taxes so that he has been forced to sell his
personal possessions. such as his piano. his carpets, etc This
problem was aggravated becuuse of the fact that his plent was nct
in production.
An additional factor causing extreme hardship has been the
fact that the Japanese Government has been withholding 80 percent
of the money due him. promising to pay at some future time. Yamada
expressed
RESTRICTED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure to Despatch o. 677,
September 28. 1949.
- 2
expressed the opinion that the Covernment would pay but in the
meantine he is extremely hard pressed for money.
In spits of this ultinate faith in the Governnent. Yamada
was very criticel or Japanesc Government cfficials. citing as an
exanple a oreign Orfice official of his ecguaintance who has
jurisdiction over Japanese Customs and Lnigration officials at
Eaneda Yarade stuted thst it was the practice in this office
to show 20 names on the payroll whereas in fect only 10 were
employed and were receiving double saleries.
/s/ illiar: L Magistretti
William L. Magistretti
American Vice Consul
WLii:fa
RESTRICTED

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES OFA
United States Pelitical Adviser
894.512/1-1049
for Japan
FAif Tokyo, Ootober 10, 1049.
fe
19
No。 706
REC'D
WH
NOV 22
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION
FE ENCS
D0
Fale
Subject: Issuance of Report on Japanese Taxation
INFO
by the Shoup Mission.
FR
DCR
OFD ENC
ITP ENC
894.512/10-1049
POS ENC
OLI ENC
The Honorable
S/S-ENC
The Secretary of State,
EFAA ENC
Washington
COM ENC
TREAS ENC
FRB ENC
Sir:
SEC ENC
I have the honor to refer to this Missicn's deapatch no. 609
TAR ENC
dated September 3. 1949, entitled "Recommendations of Shoup Taxa-
BUDGET
tion Mission," and transmitting a summary of the recommendations
enc
on Japanese taxation drawn up by the Shoup Taxation Mission.
AGRI-enc
The full text of the report itself was made available by
General Headquarters, ScAP. to the Japanese Government on September
15, 1949. at which time General MacARTHUR, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, sent the following letter to Premier Shigeru YoshInA:
"I transmit herewith the. report on Japanese taxation
prepared by Dr. Carl SHOUP and the members of his mission,
who were invited by:me to come to Japan to conduct a com-
prehensive survey of the existing Japanese tax structure
with the view of submitting recommendations which would
assist in the establishment of a more equitable tax system.
"This special mission, after four months of intensive
study, which included interviewe with taxpayers in all
walks of life and investigations of many different types
JAN251950
of business and agricultural activities, hes evolved a
body of recommendations which, taken together, sheuld pre-
vide a vehicle for placing the finandes. of the national
and local governments of Japan on a sound foundation.
"I trust that the Japanese Government will be able to
formulate an appropriate program fer effeotuating the bread
prinoiples and objectives set forth in Dr. Shoup's recem-
mendations in sufficiont time to permit the Japanese Diet
王
to consider
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
to consider that program simultaneously with the related
budgetary and stahilization programs in order that the
Japanese people may at the earliest possible time have
the benefits of a sound fiscal system."
Premier Yoshida, in his reply dated September 16, referred.to the
report as a "monumental work, which is bound to mark a new ora in
Japan's fiscal policy," and gave assurance that the Japanese Gevern-
ment would study the recommendations and formulate a taxation program
for reference to the forthcoming Diet session. The full text of
Premier Yoshida's letter follows:
"I desire to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
of yesterday's date and the Report on Japanese Taxation
by Dr. Carl Shoup and the members of his Mission.
"The Report is literally a monumental work, which is
bound to mark a new era in Japan's fiscal policy. I fully
realize the fact that the recommendations are not to be
accepted eclectically, but they should be taken as a whole
if they are to serve as the basis for a ratfonal and equit-
able tax system such as is envisaged by Dr. "Shoup.
"It is with this fact in mind that my government will
study the Report and formulate a taxation pregram to be
submitted to the coming Diet.
"On behalf of my government I avail myself of this
opportunity to express our profound appreciation of the
arduous labors of the Shoup Mission as well as your un-
failing solicitude toward the welfare of our nation."
Copies of the Report on Japanese Taxation by the Shoup Missien,
1/2
published in two volumes in both English and Japanese are transmitted
herewith, together with a copy of an insert published September 16 by
3/
the Nippon Times, Tokyo, and headed "Highlights from Japan Tax Roport
by Shoup Mission."
4/5
A two-volume appendix to the Shoup Report was released by General
Headquarters on October 3, 1949; copies of this appendix are alse
tranamitted herewith. According to press reports, the Report is 
60, O00-word document, while the appendir assertedly contains
150,000 words.
I. Aims of Shoup Tax Mission
According to the foreword to the Report, the chief aim of the
Shoup Tax Mission was to drew up a plan for a permanent tax system
in Japan. Emphasis was laid on considerations that go beyond the
financing problems of the present and the coming fisoal year; however,
it was found necessary to specify in some detail how the Mission's
recemmendations affect the 1949-50 and 1950-51 budgets. It was
clearly recognized, moreover, that the long-term program must be of
kind
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
-3 -
a kind that can be put into force without endangering the stabiliza-
tion achieved with the aid of the recommendations made last spring
by the Dodge Mission.
With reapect to the long-term program, the Mission was faded
with two possible choices. It could have recommended a rather primi-
tive type of tax system, featured by external signs of income and
wealth and business activity and not on carefully kept records and
intelligent analysis of difricult problems. "Such a system could
raise the required revenue," it is pointed out in the foreword, "but
it would perpetuate gross inequities among taxpayers, dull the sense
of civic responsibility, keep the local governmental units in uneasy
financial dependence on the national government, and give rise to
undesired economic effects on production and distribution." The
alternative choice, and the one accepted by the Mission, was to
recommend a modern tax system, which depends upon the willingness of
business men and all taxpayers of substantial means to keep books and
to reason carefully about fairly complicated issues of equity. For.
the small taxpayer, it was recognized that the task of filing returns
and paying the tax should be kept a simple one.
The nature and scope of the comprehensive recommendations made
by the Shoup Mission are summarized concisely in the following para-
graph from the foreword:
"What we are recommending here is a tax system, not
a number of isolated measures having no connection with
one another. All of the major recommendations, and many
of the minor ones, are interconnected. If eny of the
major recommendations are eliminated, some of the others
will thereby become of less value, or even harmful. Con-
sequently, we disclain responsibility for the results
that may follow the adoption of only pert of our recom-
mendations. For example, we have devised a tax system
that avoids the double taxation of corporate income under
the national income taxes, anu at ths same time blocks
permanent tax avoidance. Among the essential parts of
this system are the full inclusion of capital gains and
the full deduction of capital losses, with permission to
apread the gain over a series of years. and with exemp-
tion of large capital gains that are due merely to 
change in the value of money. If capital gains and losses
were to be included not in full but under some percentage
plan like that now in effect, our set of recommendations
for corporation and individual income taxes would have to
be revised extensively."
II. Outline of Report and Appendix
The Mission's Report consists of 14 chapters, while the eppendix
contains information presented under four headings.: The following
headings of the chapters are suggestive of the thorough analysis of
the Japanese tax system made by the Mission:
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
Chapter No.
Heading
123
The Japanese Tax System;
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
Prospects for Government Outlay, and
Corresponding Tax Changes Recommended;
The Personal Inoome Tax: Rate and Exemptions
Personal Income Tax: Other Problems;
Corporations
Problems Common to the Personal and Corpora-
tion Income Taxes;
Taxes on Gifts and Bequests;
Tobacco Profits and Liquor Taxes
10
Other Indirect Taxes and Customs Duties;
11
The Inhabitant's Tax;
12
The Real Estate Tax (Land and House Tax);
13
Other Local Taxes;
14
Compliance, Enforcement, and Appeal Under
the Income Tax.
The information presented in the appendix covers (1) the finance
of local governments; (2) the treatment of irregular incomes under
the personal income tax; (3) revaluation of assets; and (4) administra-
tion of the individual and corporate income taxes.
III. Need for Drastic Revision of Japanese Tax System
In its Report, the Shoup Mission repeatedly points to the need
for drastic overhaul of the Japanese tax system and its administra-
tion. .For example, it is pointed out (Chapter 1, page 18) that
"the Japanese tax system is suffering from an accumulation of
defective practices and provisions. No one of the defects is enough
by itself to cause much trouble, but in total these faults are an
impressive source of discontent, and even danger. It is as if a
bridge across a large river, located at an appropriate place, and
constructed of.the correct materials, had been made almost unusable
by a large number of small errors in the determination of the proper
size of the girders at:each of dozens of points."
Special attention is directed to the roference above to the fact.
that the faults in the Japanese tax system have given rise to popular
discontent, a point that has been capitalized upon by the Japanese
Communists. It may be added, parenthetically, that the insistence on
equity in tax matters, a prime feature or the Shoup Mission's recom-
mendations, has served largely to counteract the machinations of the
Communists, who have put themselves forward as being vigorously
opposed to the present inequities and irregularities which character-
ize the Japanese tax system.
The need for revision of the tax system is emphasized especially
in Chapter 14, entitled "Compliance, Enforcement, and Appeal Under
the Income Taxes, " the analyeis in which covers both personal and
corporation income. tares
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No: 706,
October 10, 1949
IV. Summary of Important Recommendations
The most significant recommendations made by the Shoup Mission
were indicated in despatch no. 609 of September 3, 1949. Tor ready
reference, these recommendations are reproduced herewith:
A much greater degree of fiscal autonomy, including
much broader taxation powers, for local governments
A substantial reduction averaging 30 per cent in the
existing abnormally high personal income tax rates
(with a top bracket. of 55 per cent), this recommenda-
tion being designed to bring about a greater degree of
voluntary tarpayer compliance and make effective tax
enforcement possible.
Imposition of a "net worth" tax with rates ranging
from 1/2 to 3 per cent on individuals with net proper-
ties in excess of Yen 5,000,000; this proviaion is
designed to compensate for the reduced income tax rates
in the high brackets.
Retention of the normal corporate income tax rate of
35 per cent but repeal of the exeess profits tax.
Revaluation of assets in order to:reflect realistic
depreciation charges for tax purposes.
6. Substantial revision of real estate taxes, with the
view to making them more productive and with antici-
pated revenues of 50 billion yen.
A somewhat disoursive but enlightening sumary of the Mission's
recommendations was given in the press statement issued on Angust 26,
1949, by Dr. Shoup, a copy of which statement was transmitted with the
6/
above cited despatch. A more concise summary, copy enclosed, con-
taining a tabulation of the recommendations under appropriate headings,
was released by the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, Tokyo.
This summary, which appears to be a competent piece of work, was made
by Mr. K. YUAsA, Japanese Lawyer retainod by the Chamber to give
advice with respect to Japanese commercial and other laws. It:will be
noted that it was reviewed by the Chamber's Tax Committee and is said
to be "O:K. as far as it goes, but does not. touch on foreign invest-
ment or foreign nationals? problems."
V. Reactions of Press to Recommendations
Discussion of the full tert of the Shoup Mission's recommendations
highlighted editorial comment in the vernacular press on September 16,
17 and, to a lesser extent, also on September 18. Income taxes, re-
appraisal of assets and local finances were the points evoking the most
discussion, but many other aspects of the recommendations were almo
touched upon.
Avainiohi
UNCLASSEFIED

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
The Mainichi expressed some doubts about the recommendations,
this daily stating that although Dr. Shoup "professedly has dramm up
a plan for a permanent tax system, the recommendations are in perfect
accord with the Dodge stabilization program which is only a short-
range measure." In addision, the Mainiohi observed, the reccmmenda-
tions "invite the criticiam that'they bemefit vapitalists while
ignoring social policiss. It concluded that the nation's cconcmy
should be re-studied after 'economic stabilizetion is achieved and that
a "truly permanent tax system" embodying all the requirements of social
policy be worked out at that time. A commentary in the Mainichi ob-
served that, although the Shoup Mission had recommended raising land
and building taxes in order to outlaw exorbitant land and house rents,
the only satisfactory solution is to construct a sufficient number of
houses.
The Tokyo Asahi asserted that the recommendations gave the higher
income brackets "undue and preferential treatment." Emphasising that
the fundamental principle of taxation lies in the equity of tax burdens
this daily urged a close check of the Shoup Roport and a correction of
any shortcomings that might appear. The Asshi considered the basic
reforms in the looal tax system "highly desirable" but warned of pos-
sible problems arising from the inability of the preshnt weak local tax
offices to collect taxes. An Asahi commentary noted the "extremely
vigorous attitude" of Dr. Shoup toward alcoholic beverages, which he
defined as a Muxury." In this connection, the daily pointed out, "we
should not forget that to working people a moderate quantity of aloohol
offers comfort and rest after a day's work."
In analysis of the recommended reassessment of assets, the Yomiuri
observed that the Shoup Mission appeared to be "too optimistic" over the
deflationary trend in Japan's economy. The journal stated that it was
not practicable in the present economic situation to carry cut revalua-
tion indiscriminately for all enterprises but declared it to be
necessary to "take different steps according to actual conditions of
individual enterprises." The Yomiuri feared that a compulsory re-
assesamant would be lirely to ruin enterprises instead of getting them
on a sound footing. In a subsequent editorial, this daily observed
with epproval the wide interest in the Report, deelaring that it
"behooves the people to fully"understand the Report" sinoe their co-
operation is required to rationalize the tax system. The Yomiuri
thought it significant that the Report *elaborated many effective
measures to eliminate disputes in connection with the assesament of
taxes and to prevent. tax evasion."
Although there are aome unacceptable items in the recommendations,
the Nihon Keizai pointed out, this is mainly due to the lack of adequate
statistics. Unatable economic conditions are responsible for the
present confusion in the Japanese tax system; it remarked, noting that
the establishment of a stabilized.tax system depends upon the taxpayers'
cooperation and improved.tar collection.
Although
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October10; 1949
Although the recommendations appear to be easy on the rich people,
the Jiji Shimpo stated, Dr. Shoup assertedly explained that high tax
rates would merely increase tax evasion. Citing the example of the
corporation tax, the daily expressed the'view that a proportionate in-
crease in the tax rate would only cause corporations to consume their
profits for "social extravagance." The Jij1 expressed the opinion that
the elimination of this "shortcoming of human naturew through tax re-
forms is "one of the most remarkable characteristics of the Shoup re-
commendations." While a commentary in this daily noted that some cir-
cles consider the recommendations unfavorable to mall wage earners
and bachelors, it remarked that the Report is "after all, nothing but
recommendations." The writer went on to:say that.recommendations are
recipes, while the Government and the Diet are the cooks. It is the
people, however, who have to suffer the sffects, he concluded.
The Hochi Shimbun stated that the "question of revaluation of
fixed assets has been found to be contrary to expectation." Noting
the hardships facing, entrepeneurs on this issue, the. journal asserted
that revaluation will benefit only big enterprises with a high rate of
profit and a high rate of operation. The principle of the "survival
of the fittest" is too strongly demanded, the daily said. The Tokyo
Shimbun, on the other hand, felt that reappraisal of assets would help
place business on a sound basis but declared there are contradictions
in carrying out such a drastic tax reform during the period of Japan's
economic stabilization. The paper said that the most important point
of the Report hinged on whether or not the existing taxation structure
1s able to meet the reform. The Yukan Chugai, however, termed the
clear demarcation among the national, prefectural and city-towm-village
taxes the "highlight" of the recommendations. "The problem that re-
mains is for Japan to eliminate unreasonable deals and irregularities
regarding the collection of taxes," the daily added. The Naigai Times
concurred in labeling the clear-cut division of taxes between the
national and local entities the "most noteworthy" among the recommen-
datione. However, it felt that the Shoup Mission had been over op-
timistic in predicating some of its recommendations on the belief that
next year's national income would be larger than this year's.
Issuance of the two-volume appendix to the Shoup Report prompted
the Nippon Times, Tokyo, to publish on October 7 an editorial entitled
"Need for Cooperation," stating, in part, that "what now remains is for
the recommendations to be translated into concrete legislation and for
the people to grasp fully their significance." The daily went on to
stato that:
"Throughout the Shoup Report, emphasis has been placed
on the need to overhaul the tax structure and to establish
a comprehonsive tax adminiatration. The wonder has been.
how such ugs tax amounts had been colleoted up until now
through a totally unintelligible system and by inexperienced
and inefficient tax collectors. It was truly a miracle.
"Th
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949
"The recommendations of Dr. Shoup have pointed the
way to overcome these deficiencies in Japanese taxation
But without the cooperation of the taxpayers, they will
be of little avail. A thorough education of the people
and their relationship to taxes and the government is
necessary
"The people have not yet discarded the old feudal
notion that taxes are levied at the unilateral decimion
of those in power. It would not be an oyerstatement to
say that most of the wage-earners realize how much tax
they are paying and that the majority of people consider.
taxes as necessary evils. Many still do not understand
that their taxes pay for the services rendered the people
by the government. Positive cooperation of the people in
establishing an efficient and fair taxation system here
cannot be had if this lack of understanding remains and
if the taxpayers are only interested in paying as littl
taxes as possible.
"Tax administration is the responsibility not only
of the government but of the people as a whole. For-
tunately, this has been stressed by the Shoup Report in
pointing out the responsibility of the employes in colleot-
ing income tar at the source, in clarifying the method of
collecting taxes on agricultural incomes, in establishing
the blue income report forms, in setting up litigation
courts, and in providing for heavy penalties for tax
evaders. Through these:means the people are expected to
participate in:the tax administration.
"It cannot be expected, of course, that the execution
of the Shoup Tax Report recommendations will work miracles
at once. But it' must he deemed a great step forward if they
will serve to bring a better understanding of the rela-
tionship of taxes to the people and their government. For
a better tax structure and administration must go hand in
hand with the cooperation of the people."
The problem of the revaluation or business assets was taken up by
the Osaka Mainichi (English edition) in an editorial published on Octo-
ber 7, 1949. After pointing out that the "compulsory" revaluatiom of
such assets, as recommended in the Shoup Report, "has rather proved e
shock to the financial cireles of Japan," the Mainichi states that, prior
to release of the Report, Japanese quarters concerned had believed that
reappraisal of fixed business assets should be oarried out volunterily
in consideration of the respective positions of the various enterprises
depending upon the durability of each category of such assgts. The daily
continued by stating that:
"In the Shoup Report, however, a greater emphasis is
placed on suoh. revaluation as a means of stabilizing géneral
oommodity
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch. No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
commodity prices rather than from the taxation point of
view. More precisely, the Shoup Report strongly ad-
vocates rationalized management of enterprises in rela-
tion to stabilized economy after inflation is controlled
The Shoup Mission is quite justified in having assumed
such an attitude because inflation is now gradually being
placed under control and the Dodge policy for stabilised
national economy is being pushed actively forward.
When, however, the revaluation is to be made compul-
sorily, the tax on the reappraised returns must neces-
sarily be considered from a different point of view.
Thus, the Shoup Report recommends a uniform rate of six
per cent, much lower than the rate once predicted by
Japanese circles.
"Another question that arises when business assets
are reappraised compulsorily is that some enterprises
which do not desire such revaluation of assets as much
as some others may find themselves unable to withstand
even a six per cent tax, As a matter of generalization,
this six per cent rate will prove heavy to key indus-
tries equipped with assets of a. comparatively long dura-
bility while it will be relatively more advantageous to
such industries whose assets have a higher. turnover.
Thus, irrespective of a uniform rate of six per cent
recommended by the Shoup Report, an appreciable elas-
ticity will be required when translating it into prac-
tice in order that Japanese economy may be further sta-
bilized instead of being adversely affected.
The Mainichi concluded its observations by asserting that the
revaluation must be completed as soon as possible in order to keep
in line with the Dodge policy which aims at the quickest stabiliza-
tion of Japanese economy,"
VI. Reactions of Foreign Business Men
Issuance of the Shoup Report was greeted with scant enthusiam by
foreign business men, principally American, in Japan.  Their concern,
reported freely in the local press, was caused, in part, by the recom-
mendation to the effect that the Japanese Government be. authorised
to commence collection of personal income taxes from Unit ed Nations
nationals as from January 1, 1950, such nationals having since the.
surrender of Japan been exempt from payment of income taxes: Of
greater import, however, were the recommended rates of taxation which,
while calling for generally lower rates of income taxes, assertedly
would have the effect of causing American business men to pay at
least double the amount of taxes they would be obliged to pay. in
the United States.on the same incomes.
Typical of some of the comment made by American business men
are statements contained in the following extracts from a news re-
port written by the United Press manager for Japan and published on
September 18, 1949, by the Nippon Times, Tokyo:
"American
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949.
10-
"American business men in Japan, after reading the
text of the report prepared by Dr. Carl S. Shoup and
members of his mission, were especially vocal in their
objections to the recommendations concerning taxes on
the non-yen incomes of foreign nationals and taxes on
foreign firms. American business men said that. it ap-
peared to them that Dr. Shoup had failed to take a
realistic view in recommending what they consider more
drastic reductions in the tax schedule.
"The general feeling was that greater reductions
than those recommended by Dr, Shoup would be necessary
to encourage foreign investments in Japan and the estab-
lishment of foreign firms here which would benefit the
Japanese economy....One business man said that if the
Shoup recommendations are adopted without change, a
tax structure would be set up here that would be disas-
trous to foreign business men."
The American Chamber of Commerce in Japan appointed a special
tax committee to make a detailed study cf the Shoup recommendations,
especially those which affect foreigners, with the view to submittal
of the Chamber's criticisms to General Headquarters. Mr. Paul AURELL,
president of the Chamber, was quoted in the Nippon Times on Septem-
ber 23., 1949, as stating that "Japanese and American business in
Japan must prosper together, We want to see a tax structure estab-
lished here that will be fair in all respects to Japanese and American
individuals and firms.,"
Local shambers of British French, Dutch and other business men
tock steps to join the American Chamber in its drive for reconsidera-
tion of the pertinent Shoup recommendations, However, rather than
tc continue airing their views in the local press, members of the
American and other Chambers have held. private discussions with con-
cerned Japanese cfficials. including Finance Minister Hayato IKEDA,
with the view of stressing the need for giving special consideration
in tax matters to foreigners. especially from the standpoint of keep-
ing taxes moderate in order not to drive foreign investors, actual
and potential, away from Japan. According to responsible officers
of the American Chamber, the Japanese officials in question have
proved sympathetic to the suggestions put forth by the Chamber's
spokesmen.
VII, Developments in Japanese Government Circles
Press reports indicate that the Japanese Government is now pre-
paring legislation to implement various recommendations contained in
the Shoup Report, such legislation to be introduced into the extra-
ordinary session of the Diet which convenes on October 25, 1949.
Whether or not. the legislation will provide for wholesale adoption
of the Shoup recommendations remains to be. seen. Various news re-
ports suggest, however, that considerable differences of opinion on
that point are current in Japanese Government circles concerned. What
appear to be primarily involved are the election promises made early
in l949 by the Democratic-Liberal Party, now in power, for large-seale
tax reductions. In addition, the question of drawing up the Japanese
Governmen's 1950-51 budget is also involved, a proposition complicated
by necessity to adhere to the principles anunciated in the Nine Point
Economic
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 706,
October 10, 1949
11
Economic Stabilization Program as elaborated by the Dodge Fecommed-
dations, and by the undertaking assumed by Premier Yoshidaito carry
out the Shoup recommendations.
Premier Yoshida has been quoted in the press on several eqcasions
wherein the Premier reportedly stated to the correspondent that "to
attract foreign capital for reconstruction, some or the tax levies
will be even lower than those recommended by the recent Shoup tax re-
form report." During the course of a trip to the Kansai area shortly
after, Premier Yoshida was quoted by the Osaka Mainichi as stating
that he intended to have the Japanese Government retrench on expendi-
tures to such an extent that tax levels will be reduced "even beyond
the scope of the recommendatione made by the Shoup Mission.
This Mission will expect to report further regarding steps taken
by the Japanese Goverrment to provide for implementation of the Shoup
tax recommendations.
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
CarlttRochringav
Carl H. Boehringer
Economic' Counselor
Enclosures:
1/ Volume I, Report on Japanese Taxation
by the Shoup Mission (8. copies to
Department);
2/ Volume II, Report on Japanese Taxation
by the Shoup Mission (8 copies to
Department);
3/ Insert entitled "Highlights from Japan
Tax Report by Shoup Misslon" pubLished
on September 16, 1949, by Nippon Times,
Tokyo (15 copies to Department);
Volume III (Appendix), Report on Jape-
nese Taxation by the: Shoup Hission
(8 copies to Department);
5/ Volume IV (Appendix), Report on Japa-
neee Taxation by the Shoup Hission
(8 copies to Department);
6 Memorandum entitled nSummary of.Recommen-
dations Suggested by the Shoup Mission"
issued by the American Chamber of Commerce in
Japan, Tokyo (15 copies to Department).
Parchment Nat to the Department.
501.2 CHBoehringer:leespf
UNCLASSTEIE

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.95)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL
111 BROADWAY · NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
NOVISIAN
Tolaphoms: Dlaby 9-2720
Cable Addees: NAFTRAC
NORTHEAST ASIAN ALFAINS
149
Juchs  Polad
EPAHTMENT OF STATE
12.2849
Selteswast
ULPANIMENI OF STATE
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth
Assistant Seo'y for Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
Enclosed are five (5) copies or a memorandum entitled
"Recommendations Concerning Report of Shdap Mission on Japanese
Taxation" whioh have been prepared by the Tax Cemmittee and the
894.512/12-2149
Committee on Japan of the Netional Foreign Trade Council.
This memorandum supplements a memorandum entitled
"Recommendations Concerning Reform of the Japanese Tax System",
copies of which were forwarded to Mr. Willard L. Thorp, Assistant
Seoretary of State for Economio Affairs, August 5, 1949, and
aoknowledged by Orville J. MoDiarmid, Aoting Chief, Finanoial Affairs,
August 22, 1949. The instant dooument reoords the views of the
above-mentioned Committees as to the extent to whioh the Shoup
Report meets, or would need to be supplemented to meet, the
reoommendations of the Coumcil.
It is respectfully requested that a copy of this
memorandum be transmitted to the proper offioials in SCAP.
Yours truly,
William S. Swingle
Executive Vice President
012251
JAN 1 9 1950
FILED
UNIY
19
CS/H
