894.413 History., Monuments, Statues, And Memorials. Arranged Alphabetically. Japanin Which Erected., March 14, 1947 - October 7, 1949 (File 1770)
ID: 894.413-1770   Pages: 67   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.413-history-monuments-statues-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
.003781
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
RECHIVED
Tokyo, Narch 14, 1947
8
UNCLASSIF1ED
No. 910
SUEJECT: Funerals, Memorial Services, and Monuments for War Dead,
Militarists and Ultranationalists
894.413/3-1447
The United States Political Adviser has the honor to forward
copy of Operational Directive No. 21 dated March 1, 1947, from Head-
quarters, Eighth Arny, Yokohama, to United States Military Government
units throughout Japan. With the directive there are forwarded
copies of communications from the Japanese inistries of Home Affairs
and Education to local police boards, prefectural governors, and
officiats of Japanese universities, colleges, and high schools, on
the general subject of public funerals, disposition of monuments and
statues, etc. In the Eighth Army operational directive there are
outlined the various regulations concerning funerals, memorial services,
disposition of war memorials, etc. Corps Commanders and Military
Government officials are instructed to exercise necessary surveillance
to insure compliance with the regulations outlined.
Enc losure:
Copy of Operational Directive No. 21,
March 1, 1947, with attachments.
Original and hectograph to Department
840
JBurnett:nm
(1.)
3
2
0
MAY -19
S
FILED
LJ
8
2
LU
了
3

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 910 dated March 14, 1947 from the
United States Political Adviser fpr Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Funerals, Memorial Services, and Lonuments for War Dead, Militarists
and Ultranationalists".
COPY
HE.D UARTERS EIGHTH ARLY
United States Army
Office of the Commanding General
APC 343
OPERATIONAL DIRECTIVE)
1 March 1947
NULBER
21)
FUNERALS, EMORLAL SERVICES, AND MONULLNTS FOR WAR DEAD,
LILITARISTS AND ULTRANATIONALISTS
1. References:
a. Joint Hotification o. 51, Vice-Ninister of Home Affairs and
Vice-inister of ducation, 1 ovember 1946, sub ject: "Public FuneraIs,
etc.," to governors of prefectures and presidents and directors of univ-
ersities, colleges and high schools. (Inclosure 1).
b. Notificution A No. 73, Director of Police sureau, Linistry
of Home affairs, 27 .ovember 1946, subject: "Disposition of Monuments
and Statues," to Jirector of Metropolitan Police Board, and governors of
prefectures, (Inclosure 2).
2. Regulations concerning funerals, memorial services, and other
ceremonies for the war dea, militarists, and ultranationalists are as
follows:
a. The followine practices are prohibited:
(1)
Sponsorship or support by local units of government or
local public bodies of fneruls, memorial services,
and other ceremonies for the war dead, militarists,
and ultranationalists.
(2)
Purticipation in private funerals, memorial services,
and other ceremonies for the wur dead, militarists,
and ultranatioi lists by public officials acting in
their official capacities.
(3)
Presentation of condolence money or wreaths for such
cereronies by or on behalf of local public bodies.
(4)
use of public facilities such as school houses and
public halls for such ceremonies.
(5)
Coercion  local units of government, local public
bodies, or public officials designed to force people
to attend or ive financial support to such ceremonies.
(6)
Holding of public ceremonies at time of return of ashes
to bereaved families.
(7)
any governnental or official conmection vith funerals,
memorial services, or other ceremonies for the war dead,
militurists, and ultranationalists.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947.
-2-
b. The following practices are permitted:
(1) Individuals or groups not associated vith the govern-
ment may continue to hold such ceremonies, if there
is no official sponsorship, support, or participation.
(2) Local units of government and local public bodies may
hold memorial services or other ceremonies for other
than the war dead, militarists, and ultranationalists,
provided such ceremonies contain no religious elements.
3. The following policies have been established concerning loyal
spirit pagodas, wur memorials, and other monuments und statues for war
dead, militarists, und ultranationalists:
a. rection of new loyal spirit pagodas, var memorials, and
other monuments and statues for the var dead, militarists, and ultra-
nationalists is prohibited.
i. Construction work now in progress on above structures is
suspended.
c. The following existing loyal spirit pugodas, war memorials,
and other monuments and statues for the war dead, militarists, and ultra-
nationalists will be removed.
(1) Those which are erected in schools and on school grounds.
(2) Those obviously intended to propagate militaristic and
ultraationalistic ideoloy which are erected in public
bu ldinis, their compounds, or on public grounds.
d. The followine ractices are pernitted:
(1) Local units f govermment and local public bodies as
well us private individuals und groups may maintain
monuments or statues for those who have died in the
discharge of civilian duty or for those who have
rendered distinguished civic service.
(2)
Bereaved families may erect and maintain private monu-
ments or tombstones for the war dead, militarists, and
ultranationalists.
4. The commanding general of each corps and the commanding officers
of the Tokyo-Kanagava  ilitary Government District and the Chugoku and
Military Government eions will exercise necessary surveillance to in-
sure compliance with the instructions contained in paragraphs 2 and 3
above. Care should be exercised to avoid the uppearance of an iconoclastic
campaign on the pxrt of the occupation forces; no such campaign is in-
tended. Particular cure should be exercised in surveillance over the im-
plementation of paragraph 3 c (2) above.
BY COILLTND F LIEUTENANT GEIERAL EICHNLBERGER:
CLOVIS E. BYERS
Major General, GSC
Chief of Staff

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. l to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947
-3-
OFFICIAL:
s/ SCHANZE
G-1
2 Incls: 1. Ministry of Home Affairs
Notification A No 73
2.
Ministries of Home Affairs &
Education Joint Notification
No 51
DISTRIBUTION: "A" plus "Z" plus
2 copies to each Mil Govt Unit
20 copies to Mil Govt Sec, Hq Sth aray

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947.
-4-
COPY
COPY CF TRANSLATION BY MIHISTRY OF EDUC.TIOH
LMILISTRY OF HME AFFAIRS
ETIFIC.TION A No. 73
(Public Safety Section, Police Bureau)
Hovember 27, 1946
TO:
Director of Metropolitan Police Loard.
Governors of Prefectures.
FRo: Director of Police ureuu, inistry of heme affairs.
SUBJECT: Disposition of onuments and Statues.
Referring to Paragraph 4, Notification No. 51 (Religious Section),
issued on November 1 in the name of the Vice-inisters of Home Affairs
and Education; subject: Public Funerals, etc., the disposition of
monuments (chureito or chultonhi) and statues shull be carried out
according to the following:
1. From the school bildings, grounds, and other places that
should be regarded as virtually school grounds, these monuments and
statues should be removed.
2. From the public buildings, rounds, und other public places,
all monuments und statues th t have the obvicus aim of inspiring and
propagating milituris.. or ultranationalism (as stated below) should be
removed.
a. Doctrine Which asserts the Japanese Eperor to be superior
to the chief of other States because of his ancestors, funily status,
or special origin.
b. Doctrine which asserts the Japanese ration to be superior
to the other nations because of their ancestors, fu ily status, or
special origin.
c. Doctrine which asserts the Japanese islands to be superior
to the other nations' territories because of their special origin.
d. Doctrine which deceives the Japanese people and induces
them to aggressive war or which exalts the use of urns as the means of
settling international ispute.
as a rule, those monuments whose inscription indicates simply that
they built for the war dead, for instance, chureito, chukonhi, or
nichiro seneki kinenhi (Monument for the war dead in Russo-Japanese war),
etc., need not be removed.
3. The ashes deposited in a monument to be removed shall be dis-
posed of as indicated below:
a. The ashes shall be handed over to the bereaved families
when these families can be identified.
b. In all other cases, the ashes shall be buried in public
cemetery.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. l to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947.
-5-
5. In case where fanilies plan to erect a tombstone in common
for their war dead, these families shall be advised to refrain from
erecting unduly bis or fine monument lest it should become an exalta-
tion of militarism.
6. As for tombstones for the war dead built by the families,
their inscription mmy inlicate the rank of the dead in Army or Navy
and their place of death, provided it does not exalt the military
merit of the dead.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947
-6-
COPY
COPY OF TRANSLATION BY MINISTRY CF EDUCATION
MINISTRIES OF HOLE AFFAIRS AND EDUCATION
JCINT NOTIFICATI.N NO. 51
(.eligious Section, inistry of Education)
Lovember 1, 1946
TO
Covernors of Prefectures.
Presidents nd Directors of universities, colleges, and
High Schools.
FROM
vice- inister f lone ffairs.
vice-inister f hducation.
SUDJACT : Public runeruls, etc.
Concerning subject matter it is desired that the authorities con-
cerned instruct every orgunisation under their jurisdiction or concern
to act in accordance vith the folloving from the viewpoint of separating
religion from the State:
1. The locil agencics of the lovernment md local public bodies,
such as metropolis, Holakmido, Prefecture, city, Tom, or village, shall
not hold for uny .urson funerals or other religious services or activi-
ties (appeasing ceremonies or memorial rites for the departed spirits,
etc.). The followine are allo.ed as moximun latitude of what may be
done in the nime of the local covernment agencies or local public bodies:
a. Holding cere nies deveid of religious elements in honor of
those who have died in di scharge of civilian duty or of those who have
rendered distinguished civic service. (Such cerenonies without priests
or pastors as are held in schools or police stations for teachers or
policemen died at their post of duty).
b. Having a holidy or hoisting flag to mourn for those who
in ve died in discharge of civilian duty or for those whe have rendered
distinguished civic service. In case of hoistin utional flag, prev-
ious understanding sheula be obtained from loc occupation forces.
c. Presentin cendolence money or wreaths, attendance of govern-
ment officials in oricil cupacity, or giving memorial addresses on be-
hulf of the Government ur pullic bodies at funerals or other ceremonies
held by individu ls or civilian bodies for those who have died in dis-
charge of civilian daty or for those who have rendered distinguished
civic service.
2. Individuels or civilian bodies may hold funerals or other
religious services or ctivities for those whe have died in discharge
of civilian duty or for those who have rendered distinguished civic
service. Put, local public bodies or any public agencies shall, in
principle, refrain from lending facilities even for these purposes.
Only in exceptional cases where there is no other place, school houses
or public halls may be made available on the same terms as for other
non-public purposes.
3. Individuals or civilian bodies may hold funerals or other
ceremonies for the war dead. The local agencies of the Government or
local public bodies shall not sponsor or support these activities, nor

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 910
March 14, 1947
-7-
shall they extend thereto any courtesy in their name. In consequence,
what are allowed in the preceding two paragraphs in honor of those who
have died in discharge of civilian duty or those who have rendered dis-
tinguished civic service shall not be applicable to the var dead. The
militarists or ultranationalists shall be treated in the same way.
The ashes of the war dead shall be handled with respect in trans-
portation, storage, and handing over to families. as the handing over
of ashes is to be done by the Government, public buildings or grounds
(except school buildin's or rounds) may be used for this purpose.
However, the cerenony should not be attended by the public.
The authorities concerned should be careful lest such undesirable
things happen as teachers talhin pupils to, or the public being forced
to attend, the funerals or other ceremonies be made an occasion of in-
spiring or propagating ilitaristic idea.
4. Loyal spirit pagodas, war memorials, and other monuments or
statues for the war dead, as well as those for the militarists or
ultranationalists shull not be erected in the future. The work of
those which are now under construction shall immediately be suspended.
Regarding existing ones, the following measures shall be taken:
a. Those which are erected in schools und their grounds shall
be removed.
b. Those which are crected in public buildings, their compounds,
or public grounds, with obvious aim to propagute und enhance militaristic
or ultranationalistic iuea shull be removed.
The above provisions do not imply the prohibition of erecting
private monuments or tonbstones for the war dead by their bereaved
fumilies.
5. There is no objection to erecting or nnintaining monuments or
bronze statues for those who have died in discharge of civilian duty
or for those vho have rendered distinguished civic service.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
MAR 91948
UNCLASSIFIED
0.35
To the
Aoting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
894.413/3--948t
The Sooretary of State informs the Acting United States Politieal
Adviser of the need in the Department for copies of reperts of the krts
and Momments Division, CIE, SCAP.
A complete file of the MFaaA reports from the MrO and Ero. the
SHEar headquarters, and from the American Zene of Germany mwserte-
csived by the American Commission for the Proteotiom and Balmage of
by the Department of State from CAD, Department of the Army, simee the
Department assumed the funotions of the American Commission July 1, l3és.
This file of MPäA reports presents a most valuable permanent reserd of
MPA&A activities and information on loss and damage of momments, on re-
covery of looted objects and restitution in the war areas of Europe.
No reports of the Arts and Monuments Division, SCAP, have ever been
received in Washington except for brief paragraphs in the monthly SCaP
Summation of Hon-Military Activities in Jepan.
The following information about A&M reports has been obtained from
A&M officers who have served in Tokyo:
1. Weekly Reports of the Akk Division were prepared, as of Jume
CS/A
1946, in a total of five typed copies, that it is a heavy fils
and producing extra copies might be diffieult, but that file
copies might be found. We have been informed that the "total
reports" (which are assumed to be the Weekly Reports) mever
went above Chief of Beetion.
2. A Card Index on Sites and Monuments of Japan has been made.
It is desirable to obtain a complote transoript of this master
file on sites and monuments. This file is understood to be
unclassified and handled by Japsnese employees.
The Acting Political Adviser is requested to endeavor, if posmible,
to obtain copies of the reports referred to abefe, forwarding thsm to
the Aoquisition and Distribution Division of the Deparment with a
referemce to this instruotion. It is presumed that ne cost will be
ach
volved in obtsining this material.
FEB
1948P.
UNCLASSIFIED
8
MAR
IAD:CRe610gn
2/17/48
orisi
3/4/48

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
L
DCA
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
D1A
Tokyo, June 1, 1948
File
No. 318
UNCLASSIFIED
JUYL
34x
Juhiyo r Sibul
894.413/6-148
9-14-88-
SUBJECT:
Availability of Documents Regarding Japanese
rts and onuments.
pustruitinsts
894.443
Tokyo  Seand
(300)
epc(vt)
-1948
The Haiorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
EPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
I have the hondr to refer to unclassified instruction No. 35
to this Mission dated arch 9, 1948, which concerns the department's
desire to acquire certain information and materials pertaining to
COD
the work of rts and Monunents Division of this Headquarters.
FE
The Arts and Monuments Division of the Civil Information and
Education Section ceased to exist as a separate unit on December
21, 1947, when it was amalgamated with the Religions Division to
OFS
form the Religions and Cultural Resources Division. The files of
FP
the division contain four types of materials relating to the sub-
FR
ject matter of the instruction under reference. The first is the
Master Card Index on Sites and Monuments in Japan. The second con-
CIE
sists of the Veekly Reports to the Chief, Civil Information and Educa-
tion Section. The third consists of a List of Works and Collections,
Sites end Installations Requiring Protection, which was prepared by
CS/V
501
the Education inistry in May 1946. The fourth comprises the reports
of Arts and Monuments field inspectors.
The master Card Index entries are in two parts: those concern-
ing private collections and those pertaining to registered sites
and/or objects. The information contained includes coverage of
national parks and hotels as well as fine arts objects and survivals
of ancient architecture. The cards measure one by five inches and
1/
number approximately 1500. Two sample cards are forwarded herewith,
the one, enclcsure No. 1, being a representative entry on a private
21
colloction, end the other, enclosure No. 2, representing a typical
894.413
entry on a registered site. The Religions and Cultural Resources
Division possesses only one copy of the entire Master Card Index.
The Weekly Reports to the Chief, Civil Information and Education
Section, which cover the period from June 29, 1946 to the present,
are made in three copies, one of which gos to the Chief of section,
one to
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 318
June 1, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
one to the Chief of the Religions and Cultural Resources Division,
and one to the Analysis and Research Division of the Section.
These reports may run from two to five pages or slightly more.
To some are attached lengthy reports from field inspectors, as in
3/
the case of the sample report for Februery 7, 1947, transmitted here-
with as inclcsure No. 3. Two separate outlines were used in prepar-
ing these dccuments, the first being in use during the period from
June 29, 1946 to August 8, 1947, and the second in use from the latter
date until the present. A sample copy of the second type of report
4/
is forwarded herewith as inclosure No. 4.
The List of Works and Collections, Sites and Installations Requir-
ing Protection, prepared by the Education Ministry, is not regarded
by the Religions and Culturel Resources Division as either adequate
or dependable. However, it wes used by the Division, together with
the reports of field inspecters, as the basis for the Master Card
5/
Index entries.  sample entry in the List is transmitted as enclos-
ure No. 5. The entire List fills twenty-three volumes averaging one
inch in thickness. It is subdivided into two parts like the master
card index, one pertaining to private the other to registered public
items. The Division has only one copy.
The reports of field inspectors uppear to be sporadic, fairly
voluminous and to be attached, in important cases, to the weekly
reports mentioned above.
The Religions and Cultural Resources Division is currently engaged
in the preparation of a report on war damage to cultural properties
in the Far East, which it is expected, will be completed about Septem-
ber 1, 1948. Copies of this report, when available, will be sent to
the Department.
The four types of docunentary materials mentioned above may be
copied for the information of the Department. It is estimated that
it would require the time of one stenographer for about a month to
copy the Laster Card Index and the entire series of Weekly Reports.
If, after perusal of the samples submitted herewith, the Depertment
desires this copying work to be done, this Mission would appreciate
124
an instruction to that effect. As the work would strain the steno-
124 943
graphic resources of the Mission, it is not believed possible to begin
it until the arrival of new personnel currently assigned here.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
UNCL+STFIED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 318
June 1, 1948.
UNCLASSIFIED
Xx
-3-
Enclosures:
1. Sample of Laster Card Index -
Private Cellection.
2.
Sample of Master card Index 
Registered Cite.
Sample Report dated February 7,
1947, following form used during
period June 29, 1946 to August 8,
1947.
4. Sample Report dated september 26, 1947,
following forn used during period
Algust 8, 1947 to present.
5.
Sample Repert 146, October 23, 1947,
from List of Works and Collections,
Sites and Installations.
original and ozalid to Depurtment.
020
JDxdwards: emn
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
318 dated June 1, 1948, from
the Acting Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Availability
of Documents Regarding Japanese Arts
and Monuments."
(COPY)
MUTO Collection
Sumiyoshi
38/1022-1303
Hyogo-ken
Kinki
Owner: Muto, Kinta
Address: Kannonbeyashi, Su.iyoshi-mura, Muko-gun
Biography:
Collection: NT cbjects: 5 peintings (largely Buddhist); 1 writing; 8 mss.
Lo objects: 16 paintings; 1 Buddhist sculpture; 1 lacquer item.
Privately published catalogue of collections (2 vols.), one of Chinese &
one of Jupanese sculpture, the former containing many examples of frag-
ments from Lung Lien, P'ien Lung Shan, Yun-kang, and Hsiang T'eng-shan.
None of this material is listed as Nr or La0.
(NT 31C, T0 480)
Inspection 18 Lar 46, R  Davis
Condition of housing adequste. No war of Occupation dmg. Owner's
protection adeguete. No risks. Inspected at Kitakamakura only.
Inspection 14 lur 47, 8 E Lee (inel 1, Wm 14 har 47)
Collection housed in godown on grounds of Japanese-style resident; care-
fully stored & adequately protected. Many Chinese sculptures. coopera-
tive attitude.
Inspection Nov 47, S  Lee (inel 1, WR ? Jan 48)
NT: kakemonos, color on silk (Dainichi-nyorai, early Kamakura; Five
Kongo Bodhisattvas, late l2th cent; Kanki-ten Reigen-ki; Priest Kanshin,
Heian); Kannon Fuken Sutra (paper, fan shepe, Fujiwara); Kuno-ji Sutra
(makimono, Fujiwara). IAo kakemono, Reauties, by Shunsho. All in good
condition, well preserved.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
318 dated June 1, 1948, from
the Acting Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Availability
of Documents Regarding Japanese Arts
and Monuments".
(COPY)
JINGU-JI
onyu
Fukui-ken
Kinki
2 NT structures: Hondo (1553), single-story, yosemune roof; Niwomon
(1385), Hakkyakumon type, kirizume roof. NT objects: 2 sculpture
(wooden, Kamakura);
1 AA.
Lctn: Jingu-ji, Onyu-gun.
Protection rpt MinEd may 46, p. 83
No. war dmg.
Inspection 21 Jul 47, FE Fukui (rpt IV (48-52)
NT Niomon in very bad condition, as is Hondo, with broken roof &
floor. Lacquered sutra box (Fujiware) very beautiful, good condition.
NT statues (Shinto god & goddess), chief value historicel. Unregis-
tered wooden 12 escorts of Yakushi, Kamakura period, in fair condi-
tion.
MinEd budget allocation, FY 48 (1tr G! to Eighth Army, 4 Dec 47; filed
/2 ME: Repairs to NT)
¥700,000 for repairs to Hondo, ¥420,000 for Acala gate.
Special rpt FE Takata, 6 Feb 48 (filed /? M: Repairs to NT)
Both bldgs badly dmg'd, all pillars & timbers in bad condition. Roof
of Niwomon recently repaired temporarily by temple to proteet from
rain. Temple has no funds. Estimate cost of repair for Hondo ¥2,Ooo,
000 for 3-4 yrs progra; for Niwomon, v300,000.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No.
318 dated June 1, 1948, from
the Acting Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Availability
of Documents Regarding Japanese Arts
and Monuments."
(COPY)
CIVIL INFORMATION AND EDUCATION SECTION
Arts and Monuments Division
APO 500
7 Feb 47
SUBJECT: Weekly Report of Arts and Monuments Division for
Week Ending 7 February 1947.
TO
: Chief CI & E Section.
DEVELOPMENTS OF CIVIL AGENCIES (PrOJect A)
1. Action Completed:
a. A report of the inaugural meeting of the Nara Kokuho
Kyokai (Nara National Treasures Association) was submitted by a
Field Examiner, who believes that the group is bureaucratic in
nature. Its activities will be closely checked (ref: Weekly Report
(24 Jan 47) par 1, a).
b. The CIE representative on the Executive Committee of
the Hanshin Art Society reported on that committee's meeting of 16
January, giving a general resume of objects to be included in the
April exhibition (see par 5, b).
c. A list of personnel in the Ministry of Education
working for the preserving and cateloguing of works of art was
submitted (ref: RC-A&M 5 Feb 47, subj: Weekly Conference with
Mombusho).
2. Conferences:
a. The Ministry of Education reported that a plan had
been formulated for the transfer of the Imperial Household Museum
to the nation and that it would be heneficial to have a conference
of interested parties in order to discuss the subject (ref:
RC-A&M 5 Feb 47, subj: Transfer of Imperial Household Museum).
b. A copy of the Ministry of Education budget for 1947
was submitted with the information thet, if further requests are
necessary, they will be made in the fall. The budget has been
translated and broken down by prefecture and site (ref: RC-A&M
31 Jan 47, subj: Weekly Conference with Mombusho).
c. Revisions in the National Treasures law, now being
studied by this Division, were discussed with Professor Yashiro,
noted scholar (ref: RC-A&M 3 Feb 47, subj: Transfer of Imperial
Household Museum).
4. Work
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.No.3 to
Tokyo's No. 318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
- 2 -
4. Work in Progress: Since repair expenses at Chishakuin
(ref: Weekly Report (24 Jan 47) GENERAL, par 2, a) are higher
than originally estimated and new funds are needed, work will
not be completed until May.
5. Future Plane:
a. Plans for the transfer of the Imperial Household
Museum to the netion will be discussed with high officials of the
Ministry of Education, the Imperial Household Ministry,the National
Treasures Committee, and the museum (ref par 2, a).
b. The tentative selection of objects to be included in
the Hanshin exhibition in April (par 1, b) is considered unsatis-
factory, as it specializes rather than giving a general sampling.
of holdings in the Kobe-Osaka area (see Weekly Report (17 Jan 47)
incl 1, PROBLEMs, par 2). The Advisor on Collections has, there
fore, drawn up an alternate list to be presented to the meeting
of the committee on 15 February. Two members of this Division
will attend the meeting, as its outcome is thought to be most
important.
ORGANIZATION OF FIELD EXAMINERS (PrOJOCT B)
1. Action Completed: Emergency Report No. 3 (on earthquake
damage in Nara prefecture) was forwarded by a Kinki Field Examiner.
The most serious items were reported to the Ministry of Education.
2. Conferences:
a. Verbal report from the CIE officer, Tokai-Hokuriku
Military Government, revealed that the Examiner who had been hired
there for a short period had returned home because of unsatisfactory
living conditions (ref: RC-A&M 4 Feb 47, subj: Field Examiner).
b. A prospective examiner for this summer in Hokkaido was
interviewed and found satisfactory, but final decision will not be
reached until spring (see RC-A&M 3 Feb 47, subj: Hiring of Field
Examiner).
4. Work in Progresm: Canvassing of further possibilities
for Field Examiner positions continues.
5. Future Plane: It was arranged that the CIE officer of
Tokai-Hokuriku Military Government would arrange for prospective
candidates to be interviewed by the Field Inspector at the end of
this month.
PROTECTION
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.No. 3 to
Tokyo's No.318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION IN KOREA
1. Action Completed: Letter was received from Chief,
Restitution Branch, MFA&A Section, OMGUS, advising of destruc-
tion of Central Asian frescoes in Germany, which makes the
Otani Collection in Korea of unique importance.
4. Work in Progreas: The Ministry of Education reports
that dealers are being continually contacted with regard to
missing objects from Japanese collections in Korea.
GENERAL
1. Action Completed:
a. The Field Inspector returned from an inspection of
Shisuoka prefecture. A report of his findings and recommendations
is attached as Incl 1.
b. The Ministry of Education was informed that Miyato
Island had been placed off limits for excavations (ref: Weekly
Report (31 Jan 47) GENERAL, par 1. b).
c. Request was received by telecon for paintings by
Matisse in the Ohara Collection to be lent to an exhibition at
the Philadelphia Museum in May (see par 4, b).
4. Work in Progreas:
a. A petition submitted by the CLo for s tandardization
of procedure to be used in opening or inspecting the Shosoin is
being favorably considered.
b. It is thought that paintings referred to in perl, c,
are to be included in an exhibition sponsored by the New Osaka
Press in Osaka in the near future. Inquiry has been made and no
recommendation will be drawn up with regard to the Philadelphia
request until a reply has been received.
5. Future Plana:
a. The matter of inventories of art objects in the
hands of dealers will be discussed with higher officials of the
Ministry of Education (ref: RC-A&M 5 Feb 47, subj: Inventories
of Objects of Art).
b. The Advisor on Collections and the Field Inspector
will visit Osaka from 13 February for three days to attend the
meeting of the collectors' society in that city and to inspect
collections.
HOWARD C. HOLLIS
Chief, Arts and Monuments Division
Incl
1.
Memo to Chief, A&M, dtd 5 Feb
47, subj: "Report of Inspection
of Shizuoka Prefecture".
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl.No.3 to
Tokyo's No.318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-4-
CIVIL INFORMATION AND EDUCATION SECTION
Arts and Monuments Division
APO 500
5 Feb 47
MEMORANDUM TO CHIEF, ARTS AND MONUMENTS DIVISION:
SUBJECT:
Report on Inspection of Shizuoka Prefecture
PURPOSE
To observe and report on the state of preservation and
protection of cultural, artistic and historic sites and objects
located in Shizuoka prefecture.
DISOUSSION
1. Tuesday, 28 January 1947.
a. Toshogu. Nekoya, Shizuoka city. The shrine, dedi-
cated to the second Tokugawa Shogun, is linked historically with
and is architecturally of the same period as those of Nikko, but
surpasses the latter in attractiveness through greater simplicity.
Six of the structures (Shaden, Karamon, Higashimon, Byomon, Toro,
end Wall) are NT, and it is understood that the entire site has
been desienated as a whole, but the certification has not yet
arrived.
The excellent condition of all structures reflects the pro-
sperous financiel state of Shinto Shrines even today. The last
repair work was carried out in 1938. The water supply is scant and
the location highly inaccessible to fire fighters, but smoking is
rigorously prohibited end greater fire care then usual appeared to
be taken.
Other NT include 14 swords, all intact and in good condition.
b. Hodai-in, Shizuoka City. Temple was completely
burnt in raid 20 June 1945. but the wood sculpture Amida Nyorai
(Kamakura, NT) was saved, although some damage was incurred. The
sculpture is now stored at Jutokuin, Marito 5-chome, Shizuoka.
The extent of the damage could not be clearly deseribed by the
attendant at Hodaiin, and consequently the Shizuoka MG CI officer
will go to Jutokuin in the near future and take photographs of the
sculpture.
c. Tesshuji
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
c. Tesshuii, Snimizu City. The NT manuscript Lotus
Sutras were removed during the war to Shojuan, Iiyama machi,
Kaminouchi-gun, Nagano prefecture, and have not been returned.
The other NT is a late Fujiwara (1l42) walking stick. Grounds
and buildings, while of no importance, are badly kept up, if
at all. (See PROBLES, 1).
d. Asamajinia (Sengenjinja), Fujinomiya City. This
shrine, of the late Muromachi style combining haiden and honden
into one structure with the Ishinoma in between (NT), is per-
fectly taken care of. It possesses two NT swords, and the spring
on the grounds, fed by waters from Mt. Fuji, is a Historic Site.
The shrine re ceived 3700 or 800 a year for upkeep before the war,
but although this sum is no longer forthcoming no deterioration
is apparent.
e. Inagaki Collection, Sudcmura. The collection, while
small, is of good quality and includes a dozen Chinese bronses
(some Shang period), gilt bronzes, Chinese pottery, T'ang figures,
tea ceremony objects, and incidental applied arts. The collection
is well housed in small glass cases in a western style house, and
danger of fire is small. The collection was checked for register
ed objects with the Ministry of Education and was reported to have
none.
2. Wednesday, 29 January 1947.
a. Heiiinia, Numazu City. The head priest of this shrine,
Uchiumi Taizo, in violation of ell his responsibilities had gone
off to Gotemba and left the shrine in the custody of his son. This
individual confessed that he was uncertain where the NT Kamakura
period painting, Sanno Reigenki, was, that he thought it was in the
warehouse, but that he had no key. He was told in the sternest
language of the possible grave consequences of this negligence,
in case of fire (the warehouse being wooden), and was direoted to
tell his father (1) that he must never again leave the shrine
without leaving the key in safe hands, and (2) to bring the paint-
ing at once to the Shizuoka MG CIE office, to attest ite existence
and condition.
b. Mishima Jinia, Mishima City. The shrine architecture
is very late Tokugawa, unpainted buildings, no attention needed.
Groups are extensive and well taken care of, with pools of sacred
carp in front of the entrance. The NT objects, three swords and
a gold-lacquer casket, are in good condition, except that the
swords show signs of rust in a few places and recommendation was made
that they should be more thickly oiled.
c. Myohokkeji
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl.No. 3 to
Tokyo's No.318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
c. Kyohokkoji, Mishima City. The head priest of this
institution is a member of the Diet and plans to run for the
post of Prefectural Governor this fall, and consequently finds
little time to attend to the temple. On this particular day,
being unapprised of the visit of the undersigned (see RECOMENDATIONS,
5) he was in Tokyo and had left the godown locked. Consequently the
two NT paintings could not be inspected, though copies of them were
hung inside the hondo. The godown is concerte and there is no fire
or theft risk. Grounds are undistinguished, but well cared for.
d. Ganjojuin, Nirayamamura, Tagata-gun. Kamakura period
Amida Nyorai (wood) is NT. Another sculpture of same period and
of surpassing quality is, however, not registered (see RECOMuENDATIONS,
4). Condition of both is good. They have both been kept in the
priests' living quarters since the hall housing them burnt prior to
the war. Fire risks are still great.
3. Thursday, 30 Jenuary 1947.
a. Hannyain, Atami City. All the objects of this temple,
with one exception, are stored at Izasanjinja, Atami city, a wise
move in consideration of the fact that Izasanjinja has a fire-proof
concrete godown while the Hannyain has no such eguipment. The ex-
ception is the wood sculpture Izayema Gongen (NT) now loaned to the
Imperial Household Museum. It will be returned in September.
b. Izasanjinia. Atami City. Also stored in the godown
(see 3, a) with the Hannyain objects are the treasures of Izasanjinja
itself, several bronze mirrors, palanquins and applied art in good
condition. The NT sutra (late Fujiwara) scroll is in very bad con-
dition, however, and should be backed to prevent its falling apart,
even at the cost of obscuring its back.
c. Tenjinjinia, Inozawa-mura. No buildings of the shrine
remain. The NT Dainichi Nyorai is kept in small concrete godown,
but with tin-plate wooden doors. Consequently, smell fire risks,
but no theft risk. No caretaker is in attendence, but an itimerant
priest visits the site occasionally. Since no one gains any benefit
from the sculpture, which is not used in the services in any event,
it would probably be wiser to remove it to a museum for display.
4. Friday, 31 January 1947.
a. Shufuku-ji, Chikume mura, Kamo-gun. The temple is
badly run down, but of no architectural importance (rebuilt since
the Restoration). Dai Hannya Sutra in 500 volumes, late Fujiwara,
is NT and is badly worm-eaten throughout. Priest stated that the
sutras were aired three times a year. The use of naphthalene or
similar preventive substance was recommended.
b. Chokokuji
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enel.No. 3 to
Tokyo's No.318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
b. Chokokuji (Hasedera), Asahimura, Tanshi. Contains
superb wood sculpture Amida Nyorai (NT) which, according to
attendants, is of the Tempyo period. The undersigned pointed out
that it could not be earlier than late Fujiwara and they admitted
that the Tempyo attribution was mere legend. The sculpture is
in excellent condition and is an outstanding piece. The temple
and grounds are unprepossessing and of no value. Fire risk pre-
vails.
c. Gyokusenil. Shimoda City. Although a small and
architecturally unimportant temple, Gyokusenji has limitless
historical value and significance for Americans as the site of
the grave of Townsend Harris, first Consul to Japan, and contains
two rooms showing his personal items and work equipment. It is
also the spot where the first foreign consular flag was raised
on Japanese soil. It also contains the graves of five American
sailors who died enroute to this country. There is no permanent
caretaker, and the site is extremely ill-kept. A jug was lying
askew the Harris grave, while orangepeels and other rubbish
littered the nearby grounds. One citizen of the city, a Mr.
Sawamura, has been trying vainly to have these conditions remedied
(see RECOMMENDATIONS, 5).
d. Final Conference with Shizuoka MG CIE officer. A
final conversation was held with the CIE officer in which all the
undersigned's views, as expressed in this report, were conveyed
and agreement on all points was reached.
No MG inspections of cultural property had yet been made in
the Prefecture, owing to lack of working material. The CIE
office possesses only the list of Historically Noted Places and
Monuments compiled by the Social Education Department of the Pre
fecture. They were promised the Ministry of Education's list of
cultural sites from this Division.
Efforts of this trip were successful in lerge part owing
to the helpful cooperation in every way of the CIE officer and
his staff.
PROBLEMS
1. Availability and safety of valuable items. It was brought
clearly to the attention of the undersigned at many points of this
trip that important and valuable works of art are being kept in
either dangerous circumstances or under circumstances in which
they are absolutely useless (see DISCUSSION, 1, c; 3, c; 4, c).
The Lotus Sutras (see DISCUSSION 1, c) are works of art
comparable in quality to and older than the famous Itsukushima
Sutras
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No.3 to
Tokyo's No.318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
Sutres. They are kept by a temple which, through dire impoverish-
ment, has been forced to allow its possessions and property to de-
teriorate greatly. Although the sutras are read from time to time
for religious purposes, copies are available, and it is seriously
to be questioned whether such valuable properties should be re-
turned to the owners under present circumstences. They would be
shown to better advantage and receive better attention on loan to
a museum.
At Tenjinjinja (see DISCUSSION 3, c), the Dainichinyorai (NT).
while not in danger, serves no purpose, confined as it is in a go-
down, remote and unvisited. Nor, as a Buddhist work in the remains
of a Shinto shrine where no service is held, can it be said to have
any religious significance in situ.
The case of the Chokokuji (see DISCUSSION 4, b) Amida Nyorai
1s similar to that of the Sutras, an outstanding work of art in
inferior surroundings with high risks.
2. Establishment of Gyokusenji as an international monument.
According to press reports, confirmed by the Ministry of Education.
a bill is to be introduced in the Diet recommending the establishment
of a so-called "internetional monument" at Gyokusenji (see DISCuSSION
4, c). It is the undersigned's strong belief that such a project
should be backed by this Division.
The conditions at Gyokusenji, mentioned in DISCUSSION, could
be easily remedied with a small sum of money and a small permanent
steff.
Before the war an annual observance was held at the grave,
participated in by high officials headed by Ambassador Grew. This
practice ceased during the war, but it is the intention of officials
at Shimoda to revive the ceremony this April in conjunction with the
Shimoda festival, 5 and 6 April. The deplorable conditions now pre-
vailing will, at that time, reflect on American prestige in this
country, and it is difficult to find another example in which a
similar site in a foreign country, upon which formal attention had
been continuously bestowed, has been allowed to become so neglected.
3. Care of National Treasures. Many instances were brought
to the attention of this inspector in which the priests or caretakers
of sites containing national treasures were not caring for these
objects in the proper manner, either through ignorance or negligence.
At the time of registration of any object, the Ministry of
Education should send out with the certificate instructions on the
importance of caring for the designated item. If these instructions are
are
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 318
June 1, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
then disregarded, positive steps should be taken (see RECOMukNDATIONS,
3).
4. This trip was greatly hindered and made more difficult by
the inefficiency and cupidity of the CLO representative, Okimoto,
who attempted to turn the inspection trip into a personal pleasure
excursion, after having originally neglected to forward to Shisuoka
prefectural officials a copy of the itinerary for the trip given him
several weeks in advance, a circumstance which rendered several objeet
unable to be viewed through lack of forewarning to custodians.
RECOMMENDATIONS
1. That, if an authority from Hie Jinja does not produce the NT
painting in its possession forthwith to the MG CIE officer at Shisuoka,
in compliance with instructions from the undersigned, the shrine be
declared incompetent to care for the NT and it be removed from its
permanent custody (see DISCUSSION, 2, a).
2. That the Ministry of Education be directed to remind all
owners of registered objects in Shizuoka prefecture that protection
has been found to be inadequate in many cases and that owners should
without fail guard against negligence in caring for them.
3. That conferences be held with the Ministry of Education to
devise ways of informing custodians of registered objects of the
duties and responsibilities they have as possessors of these objects,
and that such notifications be made as soon as possible.
4. That the wood sculpture Amida Nyorai at Ganjojuin, Nirayama
Mura, Tagata-gun, be registered as a national treasure.
5. That this Division support actively and inform the Ministry
of Education that work should be begun at once on the restoration and
rehabilitation of Gyokusenji. The Division should insist that
adequate monies be allotted for this purpose and check to insure
that it is carried out without delay.
The Ministry should also be informed that this Dividon fazors
the establishment of some sort of international monument at Gyokusenji,
under whatever name may be used, and approves of the proposed plan to
that end now in the Diet in general and, further, that conferences on
the subject between the Ministry, local proponents of the idea, and
members of this Division would be welcomed.
6. That consideration be given to seeking another representative
from the CLO for dealings with this office in the future.
C. F. GALLAGHER
Field Inspector
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No.
318 dated June 1, 1948, from the
Acting Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Availability
of Documents Regarding Japanese
Arts and Monuments."
(COPY)
CIVIL INFORMATION AND EDUCATION SECTION
Arts and Lonuments Division
APO 500
26 Sep 47
SUBJECT: Weekly Report of Arts and Lonuments Division for
Week Ending 26 September 1947.
TO:
Chief CIE.
T.
LIAISON WITH JAPANESE COVERMMENT.
Ministry of Education.
1. Action Completed: Ministry officials have inspected
ohjects involved in the contract between Yamanaka & Co. and Otto
Gerdau Co., New York, and have stated no objections to the exportation
of any of these objects.
2. Mork in Progress: Conferences were held, in collabora-
tion with nalysis and Research Division, with representatives of the
Ministry interested in a projected National Archives. It is planned
to establish a large preliminary committee to work out organization of
the archives. Documents from the National  rchives in Washington,
D. C., were lent to the Ministry officials.
National Treasures Preservation Society.
1. Action Completed: . representative of this Division
attended a meeting of the National Treasure Preservation Society as
an observer. The general tenor of the meeting was that rather than
cutting down on the number of registered objeets, they should be in-
creased, and that more stringent regulations are necessary to enforce
the law. There was no mention of finaneial problems involved in such
a progrem. The position of this Division was that of an observer with
regard to this problem. No suggestions or edvice on registered objects
policies will be given beyond answers to direct questions.
2. Work in Progress: Informal liaison between this Divi-
sion and the Tmperial Household committee for the Shosoin continues on
attendance of allied personnel to the opening of the Shosoin 14 and 18-
19-20 October 1947. This Division has contacted Eighth Army, GHQ and
diplomatic units, from whom lists of personnel were received for trans-
mission to the Imperial Household for invitational purposes.
II. LIAISOL WITH ART ND ART EDUCATIOHAL INSTITUTIOHS.
20
Nationel Museum.
1. Action
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Encl. No. 4 to
Tokyo's 318,
June 1, 1948.
-2-
1. Action Completed:
a. Exhibition of Cambodian sculptures opened at the
central hall of the useun 2l September. This is the first time since
the war that a major gallery of the Museum has been devoted to non-
Japanese art.
b. Technical photographs and data on modern exhibition
techniques from the Museun of Modern Art in New York were lent to the
luseur for their study and consideration.
c. A budget of ¥60o, 00o to cover costs of the exhibition
of European masterpieces at the Mutional Museum has been approved by
the Finance inistry.
d. Technical Advice on a painting of the Dutch school,
17th century, and a painting by Georyes Reuault, modern French school,
was reguested by the Museum and given by this Division.
e. First issue of the Museum News dated 1 September
1947 was received. The bulletin is a populer, informal publication of
past, present and future activities at the National Museum and should
attract much interest among the general public.
2. Werk in rocress:
u. The new direeter of the Nara Braneh Museum, Mr.
Kuroda, was introduced to this Division and a discussion was held
on improvements in exhibition facilities in that Museum.
b.  list of newly designated Important Art objects
was received and is now being translated by the Cultural Resources
Research Unit, Analysis and Research Division.
c. This Division was informed of a plan for exchange
of archaeological materials between the Smithsonian Institution and the
Museum after the peace treaty. No objection was made to discussions
between the two concerned institutions with regard to preliminary ar-
rangements and technical considerations.
B. Municipal Museums.
1. Action Completed: The special exhibition requested
by this Division at the Science Museum was inspected and found to be
a satisfactory demonstration of the Museum's ability to properly display
exhibits. The Museum plans to extend methods used in this exhibition
to other galleries.
C.
Private Museums.
1. Action
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
UNCLASSIFIED
Encl. No. 4 to
Tokyo's 318
June 1, 1948.
-3-
1. Action Completed: The Okura Museun was inspected and
was found to be still funetioning, although the lower half of the
Museum is now used as an office for an art crafts organization. The
Museum was forced to this arrangement for financial reasons. The
second floor of the useum remains unchanged and is open to the public.
TII. PROTECTION AD PRESARVATION.
..
structures.
1. ction Completed: huaget for the Itsukushima project
was given final approval by , in accordance with the deadline issued
by this Division to the Linistry of ducation. It will be handled as
a public works project, rather than by Mombusho, with 2/3 of the
¥3,500,000 appropriation to be iven by the centrel government, the
belance to be furnished by the prefecture and the shrine.
B. objects.
1. Action Completed: The Okane collection, Tokyo, was
inspected.
3. Plans for the Future: The inistry of Education is to
submit a list of 32 registered swords reputedly taken by Occupation
forces during the early deys of the cccupation. This list will be stud-
ied and checked for possible retion.
National Parks.
1. Action Completed: The Tudget for U.S. National Parks,
1948, General Administretion of the Nutional Park System, 1948, and
House Resolution on Appropriution of Funds to the Department of the
Interior, 1948, were lent to the Linistry of Public velfare for their
consideration.
2. Work in Progress: Phe budget for Netional Parks is now
in the Diet and should be acted on by mid-Octoher.
IV.
LISCELLANEOUS
liaison with C1C.
1. Action Comoleted: cPo has approved the sale of non-Japa-
nese art objects included in the contract between Yamanaka & co. and
Otto Gerdau Co., New York.
2. Work in Frogress: This Division is maintaining close
lieison with Cic, the Nationel Museum and the Ministry of Education with
regard to inventories requested by the CPc directive.
3. Plans for the Future:
a. A meeting will be held with the above-mentioned parties
(par 2) at CPC on or about 1 October to discuss final plans for obtaining
such inventories.
b. A representative of this Division will inspect the Shosoin
14 October
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
INCLASSIFIED
Encl. No. 4 to
Tokyo's 318
June 1, 1948.
-4-
14 October 1947 for possible looted property. CrC has stated that
this inspection will satisfy their requirements.
B. Liaisen with EsS.
2. Work in trocress:
/Foreign Trade has requested dimensions, weight
and value of proposed shipment of Metisse paintings to the Philadel-
phia lusewn..
b. This Division was requested by Ss/Foreign Trade
to ppraise objects in the Yamanaka & Ce. contruct in order to deter-
mine feir prices. The re  uest was declined by this Division, as it is
considered completely beyond the scope of CIE.
C. Liaison with U. S. Personnel.
2. Work in Progress: Twc conferences were held, one with
a Signal Corps efficer of sighth Army personally interested in exchange
of contemporery art exhibitions between the United states and Japan,
and one with a representative of a roreign trader interested in the
same pre ject.
3. Plans fer the Future: The problem of such exhibitions
will be carefully studied in view of their controversiel nature and of
the difriculties of finance und transportation arrangements.
OTUA: . LEE
aetin chief, rts and Monunents Division
UNOLAODIFIED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
is
UNCLASSIFIED
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's 318
June 1, 1948.
(CCPY)
Report 146
OKUR.JI (Daizoji)
23 October 1947
Location: Kurino, Oude-cho, Uda-gun, Mara Prefecture (Kami-
Ryumonji-mura, Yoshino-gun, was annexed to Ouda-cho).
About 6 miles S. of aibara-cho.
Date:
21 0ctober 1947
Inspected Ob jects:
1. Hondc (main hall), 5 spans by 5, front one span in an
open colonnude, single-storied, shichu roof of kokera-buki (shingled).
Late Kamakure. It had been seriously damaged before the repair which
was carried out largely in 1928-29. Now in good condition. A layer
of thin copper plates beneath each shingle is effective for the preser-
vation. (NT).
2. Taishido (Hall of Priest Kukai), 3 spans by 2, single-storied,
Iogyo roof of Kokera-buki (shingled). Mid Kamakura. Nice-shaped keeru-
mata, typicel of the Kamakure period, of which one on the facade and
two on each three other side; two on the back side being original.
Repaired 1argely in 1928-29. Well-preserved. (NT).
3. Yakushi (Lhaisajyaguru), colored wooden standing, nt.
9'lo". sarly Fujiwara. The R. hand in abheya-mudra and the L. hold-
ing a medicine pot. mebrane between each finger is slightly carved,
membrane which is one of 32 laksunas (physical characteristics) of the
Buddne. of ichiboku technique, only both arms being attached. The
belly is too large. The carving of the face is deep and sharp, that
of eyes reminds us of a Gandaharan sculpture. Retains some traits of
the Jogan style. Colors almost come off. Not so good workmanship.
Some fingers damaged a little. Ho pedestal. Hale is plain - later
restoration (?). Kept in the zushi which is usually unopened to the
public. Principal imege of the Hondo. (UT).
4. Jizo (Ksitigarhha) colered wooden, standing, ht. 5'2".
Larly Fujiwara (?) of somewhat local and simple but good workmanship.
of ichiboku. Both arms lost, both feet restored later. Pedestal and
halo lost. A little worm-eaten. Installed in the Hondo. (Not regis-
tered).
5. A Deity, colored wooden, standing, ht. 5'6". Early Fujiwara
(?) The temple tredition attributes this to Yemmaten (Yama-deva), but
also it is possible to be Taishakuten (Indra). of big eyes. Wears an
octagonal plane crown. Both hands lost, both feet restored later. A
little damaged. Proportion is not so good. Some traces of coloring.
Deposited in the Hondo (NT).
6. weniguchi
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Encl. No. 5 to
Tokyo's 318
June 1, 1948.
- 2-
6. Waniguchi (a kind of Gong), bronze, dia. c. 6". Has an
inscription: "(Dedicated to) Temmangu, Yanagimoto; on auspicious
day, the 12th month, the 3rd yeer of Myoo (1494)." Deposited in
the treasury. Well preserved. (IAO).
Note: According to the temple tradition, it was founded originally
by Crown Prince Shotoku in the Asuke period, and then in early 9th
Century Priest Kukai had come here to find out the spot to build
the central temple of the Shingon sect, before he founded the Koyasan
group. It seems likely that a temple was built in the Jogan period,
and prospered through the medieval period, having many accessory tem-
ples in the precinct, but now there are only the Hondo, the Taishido,
and the Kuri, surrounded by vast forests on a mountain. Precinct covers
c. 900 tsubo, forests: c. 130 acres, field: c. 2.5. acres. No parish-
ioners. Belongs to the Buzan school of the Shingon sect.
The temple has a treasury. During the war Miroku of Chuguji
and many other NT in Nara Prefecture were temporally deposited in it
for the evacuation.
/s!
Osamu TAKATA
Field Examiner
Kinki MG Region
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
OCT191948
UMCLASSIFIED
no. 43
To the
Special Representative of the
894.413/6-148
President of the United States,
Seoul.
The Searstary of State refere to the Special Representative's
undated deapatch No. 68 which was received in the Departnent
April 9, 19ßß, tranamitting liste of Kerean Matienal Treasures
compiled by Miss Helen Chapin of the Department of Edusatien,
USAMOIK.
The Special Representative is informad that, in additiem
to the liste referred to above, any available phetegraphs sbewde
cultural lose as a result of damage to and reconstréetion ef
historic property and structures in Kores would be usefal to the
Department. It is requested that any such photegraphe which may
be available be formarded for the attentiem of the Acquisitiem
and Distribation Division of the Department, with a referesds
to this instruction. It is suggested that Signal Corps phote-
graphs may furnish an exeellent source for this material.
CS/A
THE
A true copy of
M.
the signed arigi-
nai.
Eax
00T 18 1968
CPC(V6)
OLA:IAD:0PGo1er1rs 8-24-18
vem 9-14-48
NA

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
To
To be returned to
Action Control Caork,
IAD, Room 123,
etamped, and either
marked "file"
or attached as previously
to an outgoing communication.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, December 17, 1948
ACTION
No. 789
is assigned to
JAN 5 1949
UNCLASSTFHED
Subject:
availability of documents regarding Japanese
arts and monuments
NAO
The Acting United States Folitical Adviser has the
894.413
honor to refer to the Department's instruction No. 169 of
October 19, 1948, regarding the reproduction for the
Department of certain documentary materials pertaining to
Japanese arts and monuments, and to report that microfilm-
ing of The Master Card Index on Sites and Monuments in
Japan and The List of Works and Collections, Sites and
Installations Requiring Irctection is expected to begin
TION
on or about January 3 and to be completed in about six
0:1
weeks.
CIES
2-1748
TO.
On further investigation it appears that the Reports
of the Arts and monuments Fiela Inspectors are entirely
embodied in the Weekly heports to the Chief, Civil Informa-
tion and Education Section.
As the earlier decision to
DFD
permit reproduction of these latter reports has now been
v5
withdrawn by the Civil Information Section, it will
consequently be impossible to comply with the Department's
instruction in this regard.
This Mission is still endeavoring to obtain photo-
graphs showing cultural loss and damage and reconstruetion
of historic property and struetures in Japan and Korea.
These will be forwarded to the Department if they become
available.
Tile
axtH
CS/A
In original and ozalid
DEPARTMENT OF GTATE
to the Department.
ACQU SITION AND DISTH BUTION
DIVISION
DEC301948
020
PROCUREMENT CONTROL
JDEdwards:vw
UNCLASSIFILD
894.413

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
ILI - Miss Ardelia R. Hall
January 5, 19k9
IAD - T. M. Nordbeck
Request for Documents regarding Japanese Arts and Monuments.
With reference to the requests contained in your memoranda
of July 20, 1948 and September 22, 1948, there is enclosed despatch
No. 789 dated December 17, 1948 from Tokyo on this subject.
Upon the receipt of any of this material in this Division, it
dll be forwarded to you,
Enclosure:
Despatch No. 789 dated
December 17, 1948 from
Tokyo (indexed original).
894.413/12-1748
53
OLI:IAD:CPCole:vem

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
OLT
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 5, 1949
No. 78
UNCLASSIF IED
OFFICIAL
Letirn to Di,F rlies
AUTION is com-
pletei.
Subject: Forwarding Materials Regarding Japanese Arts and Monuments
NOTE3
The Acting United States/ Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to his despatch no. 789 of December 17, 1948 on the avail-
ability of documents regarding Japanese arts and monuments, and
894.413/2-549
to forward under separate cover (marked for the attention of the
Acquisition and Distribution Division) three spools of microfilm
which constitute a complete microfilm copy of this Headquarters'
Master Card Index on Sites and Monuments in Japan.
The List of Works and Collections, Sites and Installations
Requiring Prot ection is now being processed and the microfilm copy
thereof will be forwarded as soon as completed.
As reported in the despatch under reference, permission to
reproduce the Weekly Reports to the Chief, Civil Information and
Education Section was denied. It is believed possible, however,
that if a new request is made, permission may now be forthcoming.
It would be preferable for such a request to be initiated in the
form of another instruction from the Department to this Mission
briefly setting forth the reasons such material is desired and the
use to which it would be put, together with appropriate comments
concerning the need of such mat erial and comments to meet the ob
jection that it is confidential and informal material intended only
for use within the Civil Information and Education Section.
In original and hectograph
to Department.
fle
9.
229.5
工
YAD0 1949
Meath erby?hh
C
Corm B despr Eve to Pos/
to he
TO NA
To DRF/S
MAY 11 1949
DMR

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
5.11
MAY 31949
UNCLASSIFIED
79
No.
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
894.413/2-549
Tokyo.
894.413/2-5
The Secretary of State refers to the United Statee Political
Adviser's despatohes No. 222 of April 17, 1949, and No. 78 of Fob-
ruary 5, 1949, on the subject of forwarding materials regarding
Japanese arts and monuments.
The complete miorofilm copy of the List of Works, Collections.
Sites and Installations kequiring Protection has now been reseived
by the Department. It is realized that the miorofilming of this
list has been a long and difficult prooedure, and the Department desires
to commend the United States Politioal Adviser for his energy in com
pleting this projoct.
The United States Political Adviser stated in despateh No 78 that
permission to reproduce the Weekly Reports to the Chief. Civil Infer
metion and Education Section, had been denied. The Department now
requests that the United States Politioal Adviser renew his represen-
tations to the appropriate military government authorities, in the
hope that the matter may be favorably considered.
The basis of this request is that the Department is engaged in
CS/A
a continuing program of collecting information on the politioal, eo-
onomic, social. and -- to a lesser extent, perhaps -- oultural life
of Japan. The material contained in the Weekly Reports to the Chief
olearly falls within the soope of this program, and it is felt that
this should be explained to the appropriate military government of-
ficials.
If military government authorities raise the objection that
the Weekly Reports to the Chief include confidential and infermal
material intonded only for use within the Civil Information and
Educetion Section, it is requested that the United States Pelitical
Adviser/
UNCLASSIFIED
cC

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
UNGLASSIFIED
-2-
to the Chief, that the Department will, of course, handle the
monts in a manner commensurate to their stated sesurity elmsais
EatCR
MAY 2 1949P.
UNCLASSIFIED
OLI:IAD:LMConne11spc
4/27/49

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
Washingten
NO.
2727
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
À-29, Feb. 24, 1949
Request full report on extent of damage to Horyuji, Kondo
(Golden Hall) and wall frescoes, with photographs if available.
894.403
Numerous inquiries on damage being received by DPT.
ACHESON
Acheson
(Lsm)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
UNCLASSIFIED
(OFFICES ONLY)
aRt
NA
2/15/49
POS/J
OX: ILI:XHal1:meb
ea8
CR CLEARANCE
3000
fvi

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.93)
BEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF CONNNUNCATIONS AND
..lhoh
Mar 11 4 00 PM 9
2350
RECORDS&DISIRIBUTION
From: UStULD, Tokyo
SECTION
Date of
meiling: L.aron 6, 1949
ULCL STFILD
l.ec'ds
Mar. 11 10:11a.m
ecr tary of state,
3
P
..asnington.
ACTION POS
INFO
1-51, Larch 5, 1949.
DC/R
0
ieference h-29, February 24, 1949.
FE
P
Civil Information and Lducation section, General
Head quarters, now assembling complete report on Horyu
tem, le firc, meinly trenslating from comprenensive
Japanese reports. CIcL nopes to make available their
re crt by end of next veek or id-warch et latest.
Coylete set cf photographs of damage taken by
Japanese vuthorlties have been ordered and will be
trersmitted immediately on receipt.
.D
610
Allacen:vw
APD11
UNCLASOIFILD
MAR11 194
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This eopy must be returned te DC/R eontral Mes with

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
pes
THE PORIIGN SERVICE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, March 19, 1949.
REC'D
MAR 25
No。162.
ACTION
POS
UNCLASSIFIED
MAR 3 0 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INFO
DOR
FE
Subject: Fire Damage to Horyu Temple.
Files
Central
DC/R
This Document Must Be Returned to
1894.413/3-1949
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
294.41
I have the honor to refer to the Mission's A-51 of
March 5, 1949 in reply to the Department's A-29 of February 24,
1949 and to transmit herewith the official version of the fire
damage sustained by the Golden Hall and the frescoes of Horyuji,
Nara, Japan. The report was prepared by the Ministry of Educa-
tion and the present translation was supplied the Mission by
Civil Information and Education Section, General Headquarters,
which stated that details of the report have been verified by
an official of that section.
Photographs requested by the Department have been ordered
and will be transmitted as soon as they are received.
Respectfully yours,
For the Acting Political Adviser:
Sesneellttintin
Cloyce K. Huston
894.413
Counselor of Mission
Enclosure:
Translation of Report by
Minist ry of Education on
Fire Damage of the Horyuji
Kondo.
610
MAR 19
AHaden:hh
Parchment Mat to the Department.
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED
H
1953
1949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 162 of
March 19, 1949 from United States
UNCLASSIFIED
Political Adviser, Tokyo, subject:
"Fire Damage to Horyu Temple."
Translation of Report by Ministry of Education on Fire Damage of
the Horyuji Kondo:
COPY
February 10, 1949.
Cultural Section, School Education Bureau, Education Ministry
Damage of the Horyuji Kondo and Measures Taken
Around 7:15 on January 26, 1949, a fire broke out inside the
kondo (central hall) and destroyed the hall's interior before being
extinguished. The circumstances are outlined as follows:
A. Situation before the Fire:
The Horyuji, under preservation and repair since 1934, was
dismantled in 1944 for the purpose of wartime evacuation. Under
the evacuation plan, the whole upper section of the twofold roof,
part of the lower section, the ceiling and cloud-shaped consoles
were moved to safer places for custody while the hall's l0-odd
statues of Buddha, "Tamamushinozushi" (a kind of miniature shrine),
canopies and 20-odd smaller murals were moved to the temple's
treasure storehouse, lecture hall and other places for temporary
custody. Thus, the central hall was emptied except for its inside
furnishing such as large pillars, beams, twelve murals, one-pannel
door and outside staircase. Then, logs were crossed and a makeshift
roof built for repair purposes. For the reproduction of the murals
within the hall, painting easels were set up with paint brushes,
pigments, fluorescent lights, 60-watt electric heaters and electric
cushions together with curtains before the murals.
B. Fire Situation:
The fire was not noticed until about 7:15 a.m. and by that
time the hall inside was all afire with flames flaring out from
under the pent-roof of galvanized iron. It tooi: about one hour
to subdue the fire which charred all wooden parts and carbonized
the inside to the depth of one inch or so. The fire destroyed most
of the beautiful colorings and the murals only retained their out-
lines. Still worse, the water dented the murals and washed away
their pigments while the heat and moisture ceused peeling from the
endosomal stratum of some murals. In the outer part of the hall,
however, only a part of the tesselated ceiling was burned and the
staircase remained safe. The upper part of the roof, the Buddhist
statues and their fittings, previously dismantled and safeguarded
at other places, nll escaped the fire.
C. Extinguishment
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
-2-
C. Extinguishment of the Fire:
As fire-fighting facilities, there were a reservoir behind the
temple and hydrants which had sufficient water pressure to reach
the top of the fire story pagoda. But there was no sprinkler.
Fire-fighting was started in about ten minutes and the fire was
co.nparatively small.
D. Damage of the Murals:
The fire damage of the Horyuji murals will soon be examined
by experts concerned. Temporary investigations made so far are as
follows:
Mural No. 1: Perhaps due to the use of color hardening, the
Buddhist image was least discolored among the twelve murals, with
only one fifth of the lower section peeled off.
No. 2, small wall, "Miroku Bosatsu": This had the most beautiful
coloring, but it is now completely discolored with several places
peeled off from former cracks.
No. 3, small wall, "Kannon Image": Miserably peeled from the
waist of Kannon downward, exposing the yellowish wall plaster. There
are big holes in the head and breast of the image, and the general
outline of the image is scarcely recognizable because of the under-
coating of chalk. There are spots of vermilion red from the dress
crest around the waist still remaining.
No. 4, small wall, "Seishi Bosatsu": There are big peelings
on the face and breast, but the dark brown color of the lotus petal
is still clear.
No. 5, small wall, "Miroku Bosatsu": The old crack on the upper
part of the back is peeled anew and a new hole is visible on the
breast also. The face is worn off so much as to make it indiscernible,
but thickest coloring still remains in a part of the lotus petal.
No. 6, large wall, "Anida Jodo": With holes punched through the
entire face, the lower part of the lotus seat and the right side
corner, this wall that was most beautiful does not show any vestige
of olden times. The beauty of Kannon images on the side is also
worn off now, retaining only the vermilion lines of olden times. The
vermilion is now discolored into reddish brown. The principal image
is turned into thin yellow all over the body, showing scant comer
coloringe. Part of the pigment on the lotus petals is changed and
looks like a coat of glaze on porcelain.
No. 7,
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
-3-
No. 7, small wall, "Kannon Image": Upper half of the body
-— big peeling in the middle of the face. Also a pale pink
color remains in one part of the dress.
No. 8, small wall, "Monju Bosatsu": This is in the most
miserable condition among the small walls. The old cracks are
expanded and there are large holes in the lower half of the body.
Even the face is in a state scarcely visible because of the under
coating of chalks.
No. 9, large wall, "Miroku Jodo": Originally, this wall was
the most faded. Naturally the picture on this wall was most dis
colored among the twelve wall pictures. The entire face of this
wall is turned into the color of brick leaving slight picture
lines only.
No. 10, large wall, "Yakushi Jodo": There is a very large
peeling sideways across the center of the picture. The coloring
remains in general, but every one of them is discolored.
No. 1l, small wall, "Fuken Bosatsu": Comparatively few
cracks. The line of white elephant is clearly recognizable, and
is a reddish brown color. There remains reddish block coloring
on the part thought to be the lips of the elephant. Besides, the
red brown and brownish black colors are clearly visible.
Mural No. 12: This painting which was not clear before the
fire has on the contrary come to show its outline clearly. How
ever, it s color has changed.
E. Extent of Damage in Reproductions
Reproduction of mural paintings which had been progressing
since 1940 — many painters as Gakuryo Nakamura, Kampo Arai,
Hako Irie and Meiji Hashimoto and their pupils - is expected
to be finished by March this year. However, reproductions at
the scene of the fire were destroyed.
Progress at that time and the extent of damages in repro-
ductions, destroyed by the fire are:
Mural No. 1: Both sides of the upper part of the mural, part
hes been copied and the rest is left untouched. (Team headed by
Gakuryo Nakamura in charge).
Mural No. 2
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
Mural No. 2: Two thirds of the lower part of the mural has
been copied. However, the face was destroyed by the fire.
(Team headed by Kampo Arai in charge).
Mural No. 3: This is left untouched.
Mural No. 4: This is left untouched.
Mural No. 5: This has almost been copied. However, a part
of the lower part of the right is not yet reproduced. (Team
headed by Nakamura in charge).
Mural No. 6: Reproduction has been completed but a part of
the lower part was destroyed by the fire. (Team headed by Hako
Irie).
Mural No. 7. This was left untouched.
Mural No. 8: Reproduction has been finished. However, the
lower part was dest royed by the fire. (Team headed by Hako Irie
in charge).
Mural No. 9: Two thirds of the mural has been copied. How
ever, half of the reproduction being copied was destroyed. (Team
headed by Meiji in charge).
Mural No. 10: Reproduction has almost been completed leaving
a little part of the upper part untouched. (Team headed by Kampo
Arai in charge).
Mural No. 1l: Two thirds of this mural had been copied, however
head and a foot of Fuken were destroyed. (Tean headed by Meiji
Hashimoto in charge).
Mural No. 12: This was left untouched.
F. Cause of Fire and Operation:
1. The regular operation rules of the construction office are
that +he first one arriving at the office switch on the electricity
and when all painters leave the office, the person on duty switched
off the electricity to clean the office. On that day, when the
fire broke out, Oyama (aasistant painter) left the kondo and switched
off the electricity.
2. Night
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
-5-
2. Night watch duty was performed as in ordinary days.
3. With regard to the cause of the fire, there are such
arguments as to ascribe the fire to an electric heating cushion,
a leakage of electricity or to arson. As a result of investiga-
tion. the Nara Local District Procurator's Office announced on
February 1 that the fire of the Kondo was due to overheating of
electric cushions. In addition, on this point, the Education
Ministry authorities are also examining the cause of the Horyuji
fire through its investigation committee. There were many who
hold that the fire can be ascribed to coarsely made electric
heating cushions.
G. Emergency Me sures:
At a conference held immediately after the fire at the scene,
the following were decided as emergency measures:
1. In order to prevent damage by rain, to construct small
roofs。
2. To take any measures to prevent the wall paintings from
peeling further than the present degree.
3. To keep strict watch.
Every necessary measure was taken by February 4.
G. Restoration Countermeasures
With regard to restoration measures, at the Horyuji national
treasure preservation conference held by the wall painting preserva-
tion research committee on February 5 and 6 in the Horyuji with
representative from the Education Ministry, Finance Ministry and
the Horyuji authorities, the following were decided.
1. The dismantling of the first story of the Kondo.
2. To plaster with resin, on the occasion of dismantling,
in order not to impair burned wooden materials.
3. Provisional removal of the mural paintings after measures
to prevent the wall paintings from peeling have been taken.
4. In case
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
-6
4. In case the Kondo is reconstructed, the mural paintings
must be restored to their former places.
5. As to whether the burned wooden materials should be re-
used or not, to make decisions based upon researches after the
dismantling of the Kondo.
6. Reproduction measures:
a. In regard to parts of the mural paintings destroyed
by the fire, the reproduction of which was completed, it is
necessary to finish reproduction while the wall paintings are
fresh in painters' memories. However, a sharp line must be
drawn between reproduction and later reproductions.
b. In regard to unfinished parts, in case painters'
memories still remain good, to continue th work of reproduction.
If not, to kee, them as they are in the un inished state.
c. In regand to murals that were not under reproduction,
to keep them as they are without attempting reproduction must
be finished within two years to come.
d. Subsidiary reproduction must be finished within two
years to come.
7. Construction period for the Kondo and the five-storied
pagoda:
The deadline for construction works on the Kondo is 1951 and
that of the five-storied pagoda is 1950.
8. The Government is responsible for providing oonstruction
expenses necessary for said project.
9. Appropriation for emergency measures:
An outlay of 5 million yen from the emergency fund was
recognized for emergency measures.
10. Structure of entity undertaking the preservation of the
Horyuji national treasure.
a. Governmental measures for the Horyuji.
(1) Designation
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyos Despatch
No. 162 of March 19, 1949.
-7-
(1) Designation of the Horyuji as a national treasure
under the Law for Preservation of National Treasures.
(2) Grant of subsidies in connection with its repairs
and preservation since 1934 under article 14 of the National Treasures
Preservation Law.
b. Responsibility for administration and repairs of Horyuji
nationals treasures.
(1) The Horyuji.
(a) Under Articles 12 and 18 of the National
Treasures Preservation Law, Horyuji authorities, the proprietor,
are responsible for its administration.
(b) Under Articles 4 and 14, Horyuji authorities,
the administrator, are responsible for its repairs.
(2) The Governnent.
The Government has the power to supervise matters
concerning the use of stat, subsidies under Article 14 of the
Nationel Treasures Preservation Law and Article 3 of the Govern-
ment Enforcement Ordinance.
c. Progress concerning the enforcement of repair work.
In 1934, the Government ranted state subsidies to
the Horyuji to be used as part of the funds for its repairs under
the National Treasures Preservation Law. The Horyuji auth rities
informed the Education Minister of their desire to ask some proper
organ to take charge of the repair project of the Horyuji from the
viewpoint that the project is an extremely important one to be
achieved on a national scale and that it requires mobilization as
well as the cooperation of authorities on various fields, and that
therefore, it is not proper to leave the matter to the efforts of
the Horyuji alone. The Education Minister instituted "Enforcement
points for preservation work of the Horyuji national treasures by
Na Shu No. 21, Ministerial Ordinance dated April 9, 1934," and
thereby ordered the establishment of the Horyuji national treasures
preservation department to be charged with the task of enforcing
the preservation work of the Horyuji national treasures as requested
by the Horyuji.
UNC LASS IF TED

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.92)
United Statês Polisicel
for Japam
Tokyo, Haroh 26, 1949.
No. 178.
AOTION
UNCLISSIFIED
PO8
INO
DCR
7B
Subject: Transmitting Photographs of Fire Damage to
Horyu Temple, Nara, Japan.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
lashington.
Sir:
844.4.3/0.1941
I haye the houor to refer to the Mission's despatch
no. 162 of larch 19, 1949 transitting the offic1 1 roport
of Tire lumage ustained by the freacoer of Horyu Lemple
at Nara, Japan, nn! to transmit herewit: photographe of the
damage to th, twolve valis o" the Golden Hall. The photo
raphe vere made hy te officlai photographer of the Wational
Husoum and were sup,lil to the Mission without charge.
Sultabl" ucknowledgnent haw heon nade to the National Masoum.
Reapootfully yourn,
For the Aoting Political Advimer:
Cloyoe K. Huston
Counseler of Mission
/Twelve photourapho
of Horyu Temple
Muralo.
610
Alladen
APR-71948
Parehment Mat to the Departmeis.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.94)
015
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Pol: tical Adviser
for Jaan
Tokyo, April 1Y, 1949.
No. 222:
UNCLASE FIED
RECID
APRIL 12
ACTIC
OLI
Subject: Forvarding Materials Regerding Japarese Arts and Monuments.
INFO
DCR
894.413/4-1349
TE
POS
CFD
DS
The Acting Poiitical Advise has the honor to refer to
despatch no. 78 of February 5, 1949. which reported the forward-
ing of certain materials regsrding Japanese arts and monuments,
1
and to forward nder separate cover (marked for the attention of
the Acquisition and Distribution Division) eight spools of film
which co.stitute a complete microfilm copy of the List of Works.
Collections. Sites and Iastellations Requiring Protection prepared
by the Jap nese Miuistry of Education in May 1946. A copy of this
despatch is being included in the packege for identification
purposes.
PR271949
Hall, I41
sent to tmiss
805
PROCUREMENT CONTROL
Accompaniment:
Eight spools of film, complete
Soynale
microfilm cony of the List of
Works, Collections. Sites and
Hon Taken instar to
Installations Reguiring Pro-
tection.
jee
020
MWee therby?gnd
7
Parchment Mat to Department
MAY 6 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
FTLED
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
NO DISTRIBUTION
Departmènt of State
CONBEE
NO.
Washington, 1867 1867
USPOLAD,
894.413
TOKYO.
A-118, July 19, 1949
1. The Department of State would appreciate receiving the complete
file of the Arts and Monuments Weekly Reports to Chief, CI & E Section,
for retention in Arts and Monuments Unit of DEPT. DEPT aware they are
XR
confidential and contain informal material prepared only for use in
894.403
CI & E Section. However, only limited information available in Wash
ington concerning (1) cultural losses in the Far East; (2) claims for
cultural objects from Far Eastern countries; (3) progress of restitution
of cultural property: and (4) activities of the A & M officers in the
894.413/7-1949
protection of national monuments and national treasures of Japan, and
in the recovery and restitution of looted cultural objects. It is
believed this material would be valuable to DEPT as background informa-
tion for realistic approach to these problems in Far East and in order
to determine need for further action. For example, the US, UK, and
France approved a post-war program for the recovery of cultural articles
looted during the war in Europe and still missing, under the International
Agreement of July 8, 1946, in which the participating countries circulate
lists of missing objects and take appropriate measures to recover and
return looted and dispersed art. The desirability of recommending the
extension of this post-war international program to Far Eastern countries
is now being studied by the DEPT.
This file of A & M Weekly Reports would also complete the histori-
cal record in Washington of activities for the protection of monuments
子
and recuperation of cultural objects in all war areas by the U. S. GOVT
during and after World War II. The A & M Unit of the DEPT has received
DIstRIsutionfrom DEPT of Army the complete file of MFA & A reports with all dupli-
C S/CC
DESIRED
cates from MTO, ETO, USFA and OMGUS, the confidential file of MFA & A
(OFFICES ONLY
documents of SHAEF and the Art Looting Investigation Unit and the files
of the American Commission for the Protection and Salvage of Artistic
and Historic Monuments in War Areas.
Any
894.413/7-1949
cc
CR CLEARANCE
CONFIDENTIAL
 U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1945 7B4226

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
NOM-11B, Tokyo
Washington,
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
2. Any other documents which USPOLAD may be able to procure on
cultural property in Japan and Korea such as any revision or amendations
of the Japanese National Treasure Laws and the Korean National Treasure
Laws in Japanese and Korean or in English, are needed.
3. The microfilming by the CI & E Section of the master card index
of the "List of Works, Collections, Sites, and Installations Requiring
Protection Prepared by the Education Ministry Imperial Japanese Govern
ment" and already received through the good offices of USPOLAD is re
garded as an important contribution to DEPT records and to American
scholarship.
4. The prompt response of USPOLAD to the DEPT'S request in for
warding the English translation of the official Japanese report and
photographs of the fire damage to Horyuji was also greatly appreciated.
The report was used as the basis for a paper read by the Arts and Monu-
ments Officer of DEPT on April 5, 1949, before a joint annual meeting
of the Far Eastern Association and the American Oriental Society at Yale
University and served to counteract the earlier reports in the press
that the building and its contents were a total loss. The material has
since been requested for publication by the Far Eastern Quarterly (Cornell
University) and Oriental Art (Oxford University).
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
Achesgf cheron
(OFFICES ONLY)
()LEw)
NONE
akt
OEX: ILI:ARHalX:mms
7/7/49
IAD
CR CLEARANCE
CH
CONFIDENTIAL
OUL 19 194
 U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-1947 736336

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
COMING AIRGRAM
EPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
1.IRGRAM
D0T 14 I00 P4 49
Fidead
2089
4
M
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
ACTION: *OS
Date of
INPO
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
ma1ling: 0ctoler 8, 1949.
P
Red'd: 0ct. 13, 1949, 4:16 p.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
'A-257, 0otober 7, 1949.
Reference Depertment's A-118, July 19, 194), reques-
ting Arts and Monumente Weekly Reports to Chief, CI&E,
GHSCAP.
Despite repeated endenvors on the part of  D
to obtain the foregoing reports, CI&E Section hee rufused
to release them on the grounds thet they ere frt rentary
and too informal for use outside of the Section jsclf.
However, CI&E as en alternative has indictted tha
USPOIAD may photograph or copy material in the files of
its Religions and Cultucal Resources Division fcr for-
warding to the Department. In thie connection, USPOLAD
will survey existing files in this Division and cndeavor
to copy and forward to the Department such matorisl e3
might be of interest.
CI&k has also informed this office thet some work
has been done in preparation for a r ochure on war damage
to cultural property in Japan and that at such tlae as
this dooument may be putliahed ccpies will be mude avail-
able to the Department of State. "However, since at the
present time there is no Arts and onuments officer on
duty with CI&E, 1t is doubtful whether any further work
on this project can be carried out until the errival of
a fine arts advisor recently recruited in the United States.
OCT 21 1949
SEBALD
236
DwOver ton: keb
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—Thies eopy most be returned to DC/R eontral tMles with notatlem of astlen take
CONFIUENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
Yokohama Branek,
Office of the U. S. Polisical
Yokohama, Japan, October 20
MOD
Q0T.28
ACTION
Subject: Unveiling of Monument to Dr. James
POENC
DOR
OLI
THE HONORABLE
XR
THE SECRETARY CF STAFE,
LEPART NEEE GE STATE
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to trensmit herewith clippimgs 
e self-expianatory item end editorial from the N
TIMES for October 18, 1949 concerning the unveiling of
HEPBURN, first Protestant missionary to Japen and Tou
of the Hepburn Systen ? Romanization of Japanes 
to commemorate the 9oth anniversary of Dr. Hopburn'
arrival in this cou tr
Formal unveil cerewmies were held at the i
Dr. Hepburn's residence in Yokohama, where there is
larger building used as  ire-prevention school (Sho
Gakko). The e  es were arranged by the Hopburn
Memorial Commit es f whc Premier Shigeru Yoshida is
President: Kyoich: Ishikawa, Mayor of Yokohama, Vice
President, and the Reverend Shiro Hurata, President of
Meiji University, Second Vice President
Consul Charles H. Stephen attended the ceremonies
as official represontetive of this office. Among other
prominont persons present end who delivered addresses
were the Following: Er. Hurata of Heiji University (wt
spoke in excellent English which was briefly translated
two prominent Japenese Christian church leaders; a me
of the Romeji Diffusion Association; a speaker repee
the Prime Minister; a speaker representing the Mim
Education, and the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecturd
whom spoke in Jepanese. A letter from the Presid
Princoton University, of which Dr. Hepburn was 
was read by Colonel R. T. Chaplin of GHQ; and Dr.
representing Protestant lMission Bodies in Japane
livered an address. The addresses all eulogimed
burn and told of his work here, and strese
following facts: That October 18, 1949 m
tieth anniversary of the historia arrival

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
No..185
Yokohama, Japan
Cctober 20, 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
in Japan as the first Protestant missionary, that, while
he labored as a men of merey administering to the sick,
he helped promote the people of Japan to a world cultural
and spiritual awarenese, and he was declared to have been
a true Apostle of Peace, and one of the greatest personal-
ities Jspen has ever reseived from Anerica.
The unicue ranite monunient, with e circular hole in
the upper center behint which the bronze plaque of a
sculptured head of Dr Hepburn is erected, was unveiled
by e Viss Edythe Barbere Hepburn, e secretary in SCAP's
Signal Section Adminsstrative Office, vho is believed to
be a distent reletive of Dr. Hepburn. The monument bears
the folloving engreved inseription in Japanese and English:
"A pioneer Presbyterian medical missionary,
who lived in Yekohema 1859-1892, compiler
of the first Japanese-English dictionary,
origin tor of the Romaji system, leading
member of the Bible Translation Committee,
and founder of Shiloh Church end Heiji
Sakcuan "
It is estimate thet sbout loo persons attended the
unveiline ceremenies
Respect fully yours,
James B. Pilcher
American Consul General
Enclosures: (ivl
Newspeper elippings (as stated).
610
CHStephen bw
Perchment Het to the Department.
Copy to US POLAD, Tokyo
(7310)
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
D-18s
HEPBURN PLAQUE
In 1917. Baron Hepblr
ed. $50,000 to the Tokyo
University through the la
Elichi Shibusawa for
TO BE UNVEILED
of the establishment of
this great medical missid
Barton Hepburn was the demcen
ant of the Hepburns of Stratford,
Noted Christian Doctor's
Conn. It is understood that Dr.
Hepburn told him that the Japan
Arrival in Japan
are good people. and said:
want you always to be their sincere
Commemorated
fr'end."
Miss Katharine Hepburn. movie
actress. is also believed to be
By TAMOTSU MURAYAMA
one of the descendants of the
famous Hepburn family of Con-
Miss F. F. Hepburn, a mem-
necticut.
ber of SCAP's GHQ. who is
Admiral Arthur Japy Hepburn
distantly related to Dr. James
wrote to the Hepburn Memorial
Curtis Hepburn, will unveil
Socicty very recently and re-
at 2 p.m. today, the metal pla-
vealed that he is one of the re-
latives of Dr. Hepburn through
que of the monument erected
the Hepburn family of Pennsyl-
at the site of the former resi-
vania.Admiral Hepburn extend-
dence of the famous Christian
ed his congratulations on the oc-
doctor at 36, Yamashita-cho,
casion. it was learned.
Naka-ku, Yokohama, in me-
mory of the founder of the
Hepburn system of Romaniza-
tion in Japan.
Hepburn
Memorial
Society observes this cere-
mony in connection with the
HEPBURN HONORED
90th anniversary of the ar-
rival of Dr. Hepburn as well
as the introduction of the
Protestant religion to this
country.
Dr. Hepburn arrived in Japan
90 years ago with a group of
a few Americans and one
Japanese, Joseph Heco, who
became the founder of jour-
nalisnm in Japan. Heco was
an active assistant of Dr.
Hepburn for the creation of
the Romaji as well as in the
translation of the bible into
the Japanese language.
The first translation of the
Bible into Japanese will be
This plaque, executed in metal,
read by Dr. Michio Takaya.
will be set in the monument com-
professor of Meiji Gakuin.
memorating the arrival of Dr.
Dr. Hepburn's ancestors can be
James Hepburn in Japa
traced back to John Hepburn who
was famed as one of the most
tearless figures in the Thirty
Years War. The renowned soldier
was born 1598 in Athelstaneford
near Haddington. Scotland.
He
died in 1636 in France and was
buried in the Cathedral of Toul
In France. Members of the Hep-
burn family in Scotland began to
migrate to America at the turn
of the 17th century. and two bro-
thers were known to have settled
in Maryland in 1668.
Peter Hepburn arrived at Strat-
ford. Conn., early in 1700 and died
in 1742. Two other Hepburns set-
t'ed in the Susquehanna Valley of
Pennsylvania about, 1773.
The
famous Christian doctor was a
descendant of this group.
Dr. Hepburn. called Hebon-san
by the Japanese. lived in Milton
Pa.. in his early years' after his
grandfather moved there from the
Valley.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Times
The
KIYOSHI TOGASAKI, President
TOKYO OFFICE:
1. Ichome Uchisaiwal-cho. Chiyoda-
ku Central PO Box 144. 352. 358
Telephone: Ginza (57) 303, 403, 5857.
5858. 5859, 7003.
Telegraphic Address: "Times To-
kyo-yubin".
The commemoration of
TOKYO, TUESDAY, OCT,
ninetieth annivemary of.
a
Hepburn's arrival inJa
Hepburn Anniversary
should serve as a mew remind-
J.O.U
er to the Japanese people that
It was just ninety years agb
Christianity has a definite
place in the nation's new
today that James Curtis Hep-
democratic structure. This is
burn, missionary, scholar, and
not to say that all Japanese
doctor, arrived in this country
should become Christians. But
where he was to spend the
it is important that the Japa-
remaining active years of his
life for the welfare of the
nese people fully understand
Japanese people. It is thus
the moving spirit of human
love which is the essence of
altogether fitting that he
the Christian religion. This
should be honored on this day
understanding is important be-
with an appropriate ceremony
cause democracy owes so much
at Yokohama, his home for
to Christianity. The democratic
more than thirty years.
principles of freedom and
Dr. Hepburn's arrival here
justice for all tempered by the
is generally accepted as the
concepts of brotherly love and
date of the coming of Protes-
the fellowship of all mankind
tant Christianity to Japan.
found in Christianity have
And it is a tribute to Dr.
made democracy what it is
Hepburn that Christianity was
today. These high ideals be-
able to take such firm roots
long to all humanity, and the
here despite the pressure and
Japanese people in their pur-
abuse from ultranationalists
suit of democracy would do
and militarists during the
well to orient themselves with
years preceding the Surrender.
the high tenets of the Chris-
The great missionary is also
tian faith.
remembered for his contribu-
tions as a practising doctor, as
The Christian way of living
the founder of the Hepburn
and the democratic way of
Romaji system, as the first
living have become synony-
translator of the Bible into
mous in the democratic nations
Japanese, as the compiler of
of the world. It is also the
the first Japanese-English dic-
peaceful way of living. The
tionary, and as one of the
Japanese, whether Christians
founders of the present Meiji
or non-Christians, cannot re-
University. His contributions
main indifferent and they must
to the Meiji cra of far-reaching
understand fully the signifi-
reforms which was comparable
cance of this great movement.
in many respects to the present
were immense.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
Mr.Turaer:
You will note from his memorandum, That Phil Cherp
over in Fc has finilly examined the report on the
hourenso Margues Letters.
Since he says "it is suggested ... the British.. be given
the originals .. without a statement indicating furthe disposition,
I suggest that the original letter  transmission to
Mr. Everson of the British Embassy will suffice, with
change. of date. "
ARay
