894.60 Japan, Industrial Matters., November 20, 1940 - December 6, 1944 (File 1472)
ID: 894.60-1472   Pages: 105   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.60-japan-industrial-matters-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
NousTRY
SUBJECT
Basic policy decided upon by Japanese government in furtherance
of projected ten-year program designed to achieve complete
self-sufficiency for Japan, China and "Manchukuo".
894.60/18
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #1175; 6pm
See
(Despatoh, telegram, instraction, letter, eto.)
Nov 20, 1940
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
894.50/124
File No.
FRG
1--1840

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
THE ADVISORY COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL OF NATIONAL DEFENSE
FEDERAL RESERVE BUILDING
WASHINGTON. D. C.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISEX U
IERA AFFA
November 28, 1940
HFDEC-41940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A
To:
Mr. Herbert Feis
From:
W. Y. Elliott
Department of State
Subject:"The Industrialization of Japan and Manchukuo."
by Mrs. E. B. Schumpeter
I enclose a brief analysis of Mrs. Schumpeter's book.
It seems to me to bring out some points that I should have
said in the Introduction, had I written one. I declined
894.60/19
to do so because I did not like to criticize a book I had
myself sponsored. I feel it necessary to correct the im-
pression the book might leave and to disassociate myself
from its conclusions. In spite of that, I hope the book
may be of some use to you.
P.S. I take it that I do not need to point out that the main
reason for Mrs. Schumpeter's conclusions is the trustful way that
she has accepted Japanese sources. I shall follow this up by
some more detailed comments a little later on.
sorry E sver sponsored This Trustful
tract!
E
EC161940
FILED
PS/VH

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
November 18, 1940
I have read those chapters in The Industrialization of Japan
and Manchukuo which pertain to Japan's self-sufficiency with respect
to key raw meterials. My conclusion is a rather obvious one; that
the authors tend to be somewhat optimistic with respect to Japan's
supply of strategic raw materials because they have paid a good deal
more attention to those materials which the Japanese Empire does
produce than to those which it does not. A study whose authors were
more concerned with those materials the empire did not possess would
probably be far more pessimistic witn respect to self-sufficiency in
the Japanese Empire.
As far as basic facts are concerned the evidence presented in
the book does not differ materially from that which is generally
accepted with respect to sources of raw materials within the empire;
the aberration is to be found in the conclusion.
Perhaps the best way to understand Japan's true position with
respect to raw materials is to adopt a deductive rather than an in-
ductive approach, and to consider her position with respect to
self-sufficiency in all twenty-six of those taw materials which are
normally considered indispensable in modern industrial oociety. Such
a method, in this instance, will indicate thet there is reason to
doubt the optimism in Mrs. Schumpeter& conclusions, but will illus-
trate at the same time that the facts upon which the conclusions are
based are in themselves fairly well accepted.
The table below will serve to indicate the facts in the case.
Probable Japanese Self-Sufficiency
in Major Raw Materials Until 1945
s. Schumpeter's Opinion
General Opinion
Likely
Likely
Coal
Coal
Foodstuffs
Foodstuffs
Sulphur
Sulphur
Chromium
Manganese
Molybdenum
Tungsten
Possible
Possible
Iron
Iron
Timber and wood pulp
Timber and wood pulp
Zinc
Tungston
Aluminum
Chromium
Improbable
Improbable
Antimony
Antimony

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
able (cont.)
Improbable (cont.)
Lead
Lead
Copper
Copper
Petroleum
Petroleum
Tin
Tin
Cotton
Cotton
Wool
Wool
Phosphates
hosphate
Nitrates
Nitrates
Gold
Gold
Fibres
Fibres
Mercury
Mercury
Vanadium
Vanadium
Rubber
Rubber
Nickel
Nickel
Aluminum
Molybdenum
zinc
Including the Japanese Empire, Manchukuo, and North China and
assuming such tenhnological improvements as may make economically
profitable the development of low grade ores. Probable self-sufficiency
in time of war; at other times coking coal would probably be imported.
Probable self-sufficiency in time of war; at other times non-coniferous
wood would probably be imported.
As the figuros above indicate, about the only serious divergency
between Mrs. Schumpeter's premises anu those normally adopted is to be
found in the degree of Japan's self-sufficiency in the ferro-alloys.
It is interesting to note that her conclusions on this point are based
on figures showing that the Japanese Empire had not needed to import
forro-alloys since 1933. In this connection, though, it might be
pointed out that iron and steel scrap have made possible slightly more
than half the Japanese production during these years and that the ferro-
alloys already present in the scrap have permitted the utilization of
fewer alloysfor the finished product than would have been necessary if ore
itself had been used. Whether Japan, if thrown back on her ores alone,
could still produce sufficient ferro-alloys is thus open to question.
How the full set of facts should be interpreted is naturally a matter of
individual judgment--but when even Mrs. Schumpeter's own figures indicate
that Japan is much less than self-sufficient in fifteen of the twenty-six
ossential raw materials, it is difficult to believe that Japan's strategic
position with respect to raw materials is very strong.
What is extremely important in this connection, of course, is whether
these sources may be sugmented within the next five years. It is possible
that new discoveries will make self-sufficiency possible in a few instances,
though these would need to be astonishingly valuable finds. And it is
possible that conquest or mutual agreement pacts might make Japan nearly

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ficient with respect to many of the raw materials she now
Conquest of China might make possible self-sufficiency with
rospect to tungsten and antimony and possibly lead and zinc. Conquest
of the Netherlands Indies might make possible self-sufficiency in rubber,
petroleum, lumber, and zinc, and a much stronger stretegic position with
respect to aluminum, phosphates, mengagnese, fibres, and gold. And should
a military pact with Russia be signed there would be likelihood of obtain-
ing substantial quantities of f ur of the eight raw materials Japan might
still lack; namely, chromium, copper, nickel, and cotton. This would
still leave the Japanese Empire without guaranteed sources of mercury,
molybdenum, nitrates, and wool.
This list of materials should be supplemented by some of the very
rare minerals such as cobalt and by the obvious semi processed materials
like carbon black, scrap iron and steel, mictel salts and such finished
products as octane gase above 70 test, suitable for aviation.
Mrs. Schumpeter's own figures show an estimated possible steel
production of 10,000,000 tons, not more than 1/7 of our actual production.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.89)
ACR
DOVER
Aca
Federal Bureau of Inveatigation
Aetted States Department of Justire
FE
amhington, D. C.
OFICE OF HE 
INTERNATIUNAL NL A
MAR 241941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.60/20
fauy
4-2.41
N4
Depertment of State
COMRCIAL AFFAIRS
PS
La. 2doove
/JHS
MAR 27 1941
DIVISION OF
APR? 1941
CEIVED
FILED
89400
DECLAS.ED
Juatice Deartmut Grsideicues 1-27-1954
By RTG
NARS, Date 5-d61984

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPAN: Industrial
NANYO KOHATSU K.K.
(South Seas Development Co.Ltd.)
Principal enterprise is the production of sugar
with plants at:
SAIPAN; Marianne Islands. One plant with capacity
of 1,200 tons.
TENYAN.
Two plants with combined
capacity of 2400 tons.
ROTA.
One plant with capacity
of 750 tons. (This was
closed at the end of 1939
to be used for other pur-
poses, and to take its
place a plant with a capa-
city of 300 tons was added
to the existing equipment
there.)
This company produces 2% of all the sugar
produced in Japan today. From by-products it makes
5-6 million pounds of molasses etc., which are shipped
to Japan every year. Its principal by-product is
the manufacture of alcohol.
A secondary enterprise of this company is the
mining of phosphate rock.
Industrial alcohol is produced at SAIPAN and
TENYAN: but lately the Tenyan factory has been

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
devoted to the manufacture of pure alcohol. At PONAPE
the growth of tapiaca was stopped and sugar beets
were planted for raw material in the manufacture of
alcohol.
Phosphate rock comes from Rota Island, Tokobe,
Pelew and new deposits are being opened at Tenyan.
This company also owms some deposits in the Phillip-
pines (Bohoru? Island). In New Guinea this company
has been raising cotton and hemp. It also owns a
coconut farm in the Celebes supplying copra for
Japanese factories.
Principally engaged in developing the Phosphate
rock deposits of Anguar and Fuhaes (?) Islands in the
Mandated territory. Recently have had some trouble
because it has not been posible to obtain ships to
carry supplies as formerly. Will probably merge
with the Taiwan Takushoku K.K. because they are
both expanding to the South.
1.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
5
devoted to the manufacture of pure alcohol. At PoNi
the growth of tapiace was stopped and sugar beets
wer planted for raw material in the manufacture of
alcoho.
Phosphat: rock comes from Hota Island, Tokobe,
Pelew and new deposits are being opened at Tenyan.
This cenpeny elso owns some deposits in the Phillip-
pines (Bohoru? Island). In New Guinea this company
hs been raising cotton and hemp. It also owns a
coconut farm in the Celebes supplying copra for
Jepanese factories.
Principally engaged in developing the Phosphate
rock ceposits of Anguar and Fuhaes (?) Islands in the
Mandated territory. necently hav had some trouble
becau it has not been posible to obtein ships to
carry supplies as formerly." Will probably merge
With the Taiwan Takushoku K.K. because they are
both expanding to the South.
8

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese legislation extending rigid government
control over industrial production.
Informs of concern of American owned corporations
engaged in manufacturing in Japan over enactment
of -; suggests retaliatory control measures in
United States over Japanese holdings.
1w
894.60/2
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
TEL.383.5pm
(Deapotal, talogram, lostraation, lottos, oto.)
From
Dated....._Mar..10..1941
Japan - Grew
To
File No.
894.5034/23
844.60

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
devoted to the manufacture of:pure alcohol. At PONAPE
the growth of tapiaca was stopped and sugar beets
were planted for raw material in the mamufacture of
alcohol.
Phosphate rock comes from Rota Island, Tokobe,
Pelew and new deposits are being opened at Tenyan.
This company also owms some deposits in the Phillip-
pines (Bohoru? Island). In New Guinea this company
has been raising cotton and hemp. It also owns a
coconut farm in the Celobes supplying copra for
Japanese-factorios.
Principally engaged in developing the Phosphate
rock deposits of Anguar and Pabees (?) Islands in the
Mandated territory. Recently have had some trouble
because it has not been pemible to obtain ships to
carry supplies as formerly. will probebly mergo
with the Taiwan Takushoku K.K. because they are
both expanding to the South.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japenese legislation extending rigid government
control over industrial production.
Inforns of concern of American owned corporetions
engared in manufecturing in Japan over enectment
of -; sugests retaliatory control mensures in
United States over Japanese holdings.
1w
894.60/21
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
TEL.383.5pm
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastraction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated.Mar.10.1941
Japan..Grew...
To
File No.
894.5034/23
U. S. 0VERNT PRINTING GFFICS 1-1840

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.94)
OFFICE OF IT ATASER UN
3
RECEIVED
OFPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
e0
DATE:
April 7, 1941.
S/R
SUBJECT:
Industrial conditions in Japan as observed by Mr. Plowman.
A1D RECORDS
Mr. Douglas - Otis Elevator Company, New York.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. Plowman - Just returned from Japan where he was manager
of the Otis Elevator Company, Tokyo.
894.60/22
Mr. Carter - Manager of Otis Elevator Company branch,
Washington.
Mr. Butts
Colonel Burns - from General Maxwell's office.
Fia
Mr. Hornbeok
Mr. Hamilton
NR.
Mr. Green
MAY 17 1941
Mr. Sohmidt
In opening the conversation, Mr. Hamilton expressed
his appreoiation of the visit of the gentlemen from Otis
Elovator Company and said that we would all be interested
in hearing whatever comments they had to make. Mr. Dou-
glas replied that. as: Mr. Plowman had been in chargeof
FILED
the Otis Elevator Company in Japan for the past six year
394.60
it might be of interest to have Mr. Plowman outline manu
36
facturing and industrial conditions as he had observed
them up to the time of his departure from Japan last month.
Mr. Plowman began his discussion with a description
of building construotion in Japan, stating that in the
last two years all new building in Japan has been severely
restristed

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
restricted and that no new construction of modern office
buildings, theaters, apartment buildings and the like is
permitted. New construction is allowed only for facto-
ries and government offices believed to be necessary for
military reasons. Sales of elevators are easily obtained
but are limited to buildings of the type for which con-
struction is permitted. Mr. Plowman outlined in some
detail the necessary procedure for obtaining permission
for construction. Applications for permission to con-
struct elevators are prepared in minute detail by the
elevator company and presented to the Ministry of Finance.
According to Mr. Plowman, it is necessary to obtain per-
mission to purchase raw materials of all kinds going into
the construction of an elevator. These permits must list
such material by weight, as, for example, so many pounds
of copper, iron, steel, aluminum, et cetera. While in
almost every instance permits are forthooming, consider-
able delay is always experienced. Once permission has
been obtained from the Finance Ministry in Tokyo, it is
necessary for the Otis Elevator Company to go to each of
its suboontractors and to supply to them raw materials
from which they may make such items as copper wire, iron
and

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
and steel castings, steel cables, et cetera. This entails
further considerable delay since subcontractors do not
follow their former practice of carrying stocks of com-
pleted materials. Mr. Plowman added that orders for war
industries are given priority and firms making iron and
steel castings, steel cables and other articles necessary
for the construction of elevators are in many instances
unable to deliver materials ordered except after comple-
tion of priority contracts.
With regard to labor, Mr. Plowman said that there is
a rapid turnover of laborers in his factory; that they
are often attracted by higher wages which they are able
to earn in munition industries on piece work; and that
laborers in general in Japan are moving from factory to
factory. Inability to obtain materials will often cause
factories to cease operations temporarily and the laborers
to move on to some other factory which is in production.
The Japanese army has also taken many of the skilled
workers and there is, according to Mr. Plowman, a shortage
of skilled labor at the present time. His faotory has
made a practice of hiring inexperienced employees and
attempting to train them under a system of apprenticeship.
Questionsd later with regard to the retirement system for
Japanose

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
Japanese laborers of long service and the effect of this
system on labor turnover, Mr. Plowman stated that this
rapid turnover was limited largely to laborers of
relatively short service with any company and that in
his own factory, practically all of the foremen had been
with the company for a considerable length of time and
continued their services in the factory, whereas the
laborers were constantly changing. He added that police
control of labor was very complete and that there were no
labor difficulties or grumbling on the part of the workers,
and that while there were shortages of rice, the diet was
still adequate to allow the laborers to work ten to twelve
hours a day without evidences of malnutrition or physical
deterioration. In reply to Mr. Hornbeck's question con-
oerning clothing which laborers were able to obtain,
Mr. Plowman stated that pure cotton materials were no
used for laborers' clothing.
longer available and that all cloth/in Japan contained a
mixture (up to 80%) of staple fiber.
Mr. Plowman described in some detail present short-
ages, in the Tokyo and Yokohama industrial areas, of water,
power, coal, gas, and transportation. He emphasized that
the two most important shortages in Japan at the present
time were of rice and charcoal. He attributed these
shortages

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
shortages in large measure to a great expansion of
factories, particularly war-time industries, increases
in population, and inefficiency in the adninistration of
economic controls. With regard to transportation,
Mr. Plowman emphasized the crowded condition of all bus-
ses, trains and particularly what he termed inter-urban
transportation. In reply to Mr. Hamilton's question as
to whether any serious deterioration in railroad equip-
ment was observable, Mr. Plowman stated that certainly
the facilities serving the metropolitan and industrial
area of Yokohama end Tokyo showed definite signs of
deterioration and lack of proper maintenance. He remarked
that whereas formerly large reserves of rolling stock and
passenger cars had been seen in railroad yards, suoh was
not the case at present and apparently reserves of such
cars have been seriously depleted. This fact, Mr. Plow-
man believed, would indicate that transportation facili-
ties were not being serviced properly but were in almost
oontinuous use.
In response to Mr. Hornbeck's inquiry in regard to
relations with the Japanese, Mr. Plowman stated that hin
relations with his Japanese associates and with Japanese
poople in general had remained cordial and that the
attitude of the people as a whole seemed to be friendly
but

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
but distant. It was Mr. Plowman's impression that the
general atmosphere in Japan as shown by people on the
street and trains was one of depression.
With regard to competitors, Mr. Plowman remarked
that his company obtained by far the largest share of
the elevator business in Japan and added that this
share was even greater than it had been before the pre-
sent economio and industrial restrictions were enforced.
Total production of his company in Japan at this time is
l imited, he said, to freight and commercial elevators,
representing only approximately 20% of the former busi-
ness done by the company.
In reply to a question concerning the remission of
profits, Mr. Douglas stated that up to and including
last year, the company had been able to remit all profits
but that such profits had been divided into two or more
installments per year. He added that there was pending
at present an application for a permit for further trans-
fer of the company's profits.
Mr. Butts inquired whether there were observable
any evidences of German influence in Tokyo and also
whether there were known to be German advisers in Japanese
industrial plants. Mr. Plowman stated that he was not
informed on this subjeot and that he could not state
definitely

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
definitely as to the presence of German technicians and
engineers. He added that the general impression in the
foreign community in Tokyo was that there existed a
definite influence by Germans on the Japanese Government
and added that many Germans were seen in the hotels of
Japan.
In conclusion, Mr. Hamilton thanked Mr. Plowman
for his information and remarks.
mm2
FE:Sohmidt:OJL

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.92)
Apeil 11, 1041
- RA  L
2155
To the Amerieam Ambassador,
Tokye.
The Besretary of State eneloses for the confidential
1nfermatiem of the American Ambassador a copy of a meme-
894.60/
rantum of a conversation held in the Department on April 7,
1941, ia regard to industrial conditions 1n Japan as ob-
894.60
served by Mr. Plowman.
22
Enclosure:
Nemorandum of conversation,
April 7, between Mr. Douglas,
Mr. Plowman, Hr. Carter,
Ar. Butts, Colonel Burme,
and Hr. Hornbeok, Mr. Hamllton,
Mr. Greea, Mr. Sehmidt.
APP 101841
AM
PS/LDP
8.90.
FETESC:HNS
4/9
FE

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.94)
13311
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RECEIVEL
DIIARTMENT
DCA
ECONOMIC SECTION
19411
Berlin, Germany Aprif 28, 1941
4951
No.
SUBJECT: German Industrial Participation
in Japan and Manchukuo.
C
Nesp.c
wAy
NOT FOR 
2 44 dubabu
894.80/23
Com
894.l60d
N2 1941
THE HONORABLE
DEPARTMENT OF RIATE
DIVISION O: HFSARCH & PUBLUCATION
PUBLICATIONAIR BUTION UNIT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
MAY 28 1941
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
JWP
I have the honor to enolose five copies of a special
supplement which appeared in the Deutsohe Bergwerks-
MERCIAL APPA
rtment
JUN 11 1941
Zeitung of April 6, 194l, entitled "The Far East".
IVISION
It is believed that this supplement may be of spe-
Eeial interest to the Department as well as to the Amerieam
Reel industry and export trade, since it gives a survey,
DCA
Faphs shewing mills, blast furnaces, factariegand power
File-J.P.F.
installations, of the German penetration inr Japan and
Manehukue. Furthermore it may readily be understood
from

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
from a perusal of the artioles in the enclosed supplement
that the Reich has been able to use 1ron and steel produots
in its export trade with the Far East as a substitute for
foreign exchange.
In detail, the enclosed text and illustrations
plaoe emphasis upon the Japanese importation of capital
goods from Germany, such as factory installations for
Japanese blast furnaces, rolling mills and presses for
the heaviest work. Reference is al so made to the in-
stallation of modern ooke ovens in Manchukuo and to the
installation of a 500,000 horsepower steam turbine which
has been delivered to Manchukuo.
.As in nearly all
other illustrated German papers appearing during the
past month, there also is reproduced here a photograph
of the so-oalled "largest water turbine generator which
has yet been built in Europe", which is intended for
delivery to a power-plant in the Far East.
In oonneotion with the German coal mining industry
two artioles are published in the supplement on pages
12, 13, 14 and 15 whioh deal at length with German
experience with adjustable steel mining props and with
various types of drying equipment, using both air and
hot furnace gases, ir use in drying hard coal and
lignite.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Charge d'Affaires a.1.
Hom T loood
Enclesures:
5 copies of a special
Bam E. Woods,
supplement in the
Deutsohe Bergwerks-
Commeroial Attache.
Zeitung of April 6, 1941
800
Ls/er

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
Division of
Dea
FAR EASTEBN AFFAIRS
Jederal Bureau of Iaveatigation
DEC1:1941
LFE
Mutted States Department of Justirl
Department of State
wr
RECF
December
9，1941
PERSONAL AND
() 
DFC10
Honort Die hdolf n. ri, Jr.
Assistent Fecret:ry ot ttte
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Berlo:
There is att ch nereo e meornoum
cated December 9, 1941, reflecting information
894.60
received by this Bureau from an outside confi-
dential ana reliable source, relating to Japanese
industries and railvays.
bincerely yours,
/24
2dopn24
Enclosure
BY SPECIAL
41
MESSENGTR
JAN2
FILED
CC
Captain. T. S. Wilkinson
F
Director, Office of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
CONMANCIAL APPAIRS
600
DIVIBION OF
Brigadier General Sherman Miles
Assistant Chief of St&ff
DEC 11 1941
G-2, war Depertment
Washington, D. C.
PS/MNB
2
JusticeDegartumentGuldclrues,1-24d904
By RTG
5.16-1984

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
December 9, 1941
MEMORANDUM
A recent arrival from Japan re orts that the Mitsubishi
C 20 (Junkers type transport plane) was being manufactured for the
army. Production since February has averaged 35 a month and the
plant where these airplanes are being manufactured employs 8,000
workers, of whom 1,400 are women. The plant is working twenty-
four hours a day.
It has also been asserted that the Nakajima Aircraft
Company in Tokyo, since April, 194l, has been manufacturing a copy
of the "Hurricane", carrying six machine guns.
The same source of information has reported that Japan's
export trade, except to the occupied territories in China, Manchuria,
Siberia, Indo-China and Thailand has ceased. Factories catering to
the trade are shut down and all efforts to convert many of them to
the important task of making munitions are futile because their
machinery is not sufficiently accurate to produce parts or units
within the permitted tolerances of accuracy. Such industries as
matting, South Central Japan, toys, Osaxi: and Tokyo, metal novelties,
Osaka, Nagoya, et cetera, are definitely closed down. Companies
engaged in servicing the export trade, shipping agencies, insurance
brokerage houses, forwarding agencies, et cetera, are bankrupt.
Because export goods are generally not made to conform to Japanese
ideas of taste, they are not easy to dispose of on the domestic
market. Consequently, all goous which have been ordered but cannot
be shipped are piled high in factory storehouses, public warehouses,
and even on railroad stations. There is room for no more until
existing supplies are moved out.
It is stated that the general opinion among Japanese who
have recently returned from Japan is that the labor situation in
that country is fairly desperate. There is not enough skilled labor
in any of the industries servicing the armed forces due to the
diversion of skilled men to new plants in North China. Further, it
is a difficult task to train men from other industries such as toy-
making, matting and weaving to operate a precision instrument, to
wield a pick, or hold a pneumatic drill in a coal mine.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
Women roe se frn re opouse of the shutown of
factories formery enraged  oucin sort poo ve, s
ing to thir Burn. ur  inf rme tlom, not ben absorbed in
other industries. It is asserten tha: there ere ep roximately
600,000 fem Le workers now ldle be c use o: t ostn of xport
factories.
Regarding Japan's railways, it is stated that ireight
clogs all of the railway stations and lines, particularly the main
lines to Shimonoseki n: the hestern Japan ports. Only foctories on
the most urgent roverment prioritios liso can otein care for
their shipments, and these are r tion d weeks in a ivanee. It is
alleged that freight cars are seluom serviced end, s  resuit are
rapidly deteriorating in efficiency. Breakages are frequent and
it is estimated that from twenty to twenty-two per cent of the
total rolling stock of the Japanese railways is always undergoing
repairs. This clogs the workshops, which in turn are short of
competent labor. It has also been stated that passenger trains
are deteriorating in equipment and that wrecks are becoming more
and more frequent. For at least two years, cusual travel has
been discouraged and it is now restricted because all cars are
needed for the transportation oi troops and those servicing the
armed forces. Transport of essential goods is definitely delayed
at all times. However, in & war emergency there seem: to be little
reason for doubting the ability of the Japanese railways to continue
transporting essential materials vitnout many delays and actual
breakages in the railway systems.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
894.60
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Industrial oondititions by H.U.
Pearoe, General Eleotric Representative
in Tokyo, 1924-1941:
Enoloses report on the,-
894.60/25
5
vib
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
(Despatoh, telegram, lmstruction, letter, eto.)
From Carter, J. F.
Dated....Jan...8...1942.
740.0011 P.W./1694
File No.
PS/MCD

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.90)
DOR
FE
Daa
Prd States Depariment of Justire
7
R.hahington. D. .
251942
February 0, 1
COMMUNIA
BY POAL
JSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Department of State
INTERNAIUNAL FCUNOMIC AHAIRS
Washington, D. C.
MAR-41942
My dear Mr.  rie:
N
As a matter of possible interest to you there
is transmitted herewith a copy of a memorandum concern-
ing industrial production in Japan which was received by
this Bureau from an outside confidential and reliable
894.60/26
source.
Sincerely yours,
Aoover
894.60
Enclosure
cc - Rear Admiral T. S. Wilkinson
Director
Office of Naval in elli ence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Brigadier General Itaymond E. Lee
Assistant Chief of Staff
DIVISION OF
,War Department
J.
0
8-1942
Washington, D. C.
cg
1942
of Btate
23 1942
MAR  1942
26
DEOL
Juonie Dsuantmout Souidelines
1-24-1954
By reTG
NARS, Date 5-16-1954

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
February 20, 1942
It has oeen reported tmat ne Japanese have decentral sed
the production or aireraft parts, nd their present plan s to h ve
the various parts manuractrred in wiuel seartereu urys Pinaliy be
ing assembled in olants of Nagoya, Kobe an Yokohama. In Yokohama
they have constructed a 1 rge unuergrounu hanyar on the water front
road at a place knowm as Mikado Beach halfway between Yokohama and
Hommoku. This base allegedly has machine shops, hangars and all
facilities necessary for the maintenance of all types oi airplanes.
It is also believed that large quantities of aviation gasoline are
stored near this point.
Although the Japanese have assertedly replaced postal boxes
and iron telegraph and light poles with concrete poles reinforced
with bamboo and the manhole covers have been replaced with wooden
covers, it is believed that there are still large reserves of scrap
iron stored in various industrial cities. It is supposedly of the
consensus that production has been reduced approximaiely forty-five
per cent since July 194l, because of acute shortage of all metals
and from conversation allegeuly had with various Japanese manu-
facturers, it was learned that this shortage was working to a distinct
disadvantage in the production of military and civilian supplies.
The Japanese, reportedly, had been attempting to build up
industrial sections in Manchukuo, having purchased a great deal of
equipment and laid out plens for industrial building, but as yet
they have had little success because of the difficulty in obtaining
material for their plants either to build or run them. Those wnich
have been completed are running at approximately forty per cent of
capacity, which is due largely to the lack of coal.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
894.60/27

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
Dvien of
FAR EASTFRN AFFAIRD
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
AFK241942
No. 4311
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
ON OF
CouMomal, Canada, April 20, 1942.
1P
SUBJECT:
Information regarding copper mines and electrolytic
refinery and smelter in Japan.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
THE HONORABLE
894.60/27
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTOI
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a memorandum in
duplicate submitted to me today by Mr. W. A. Higgins of the
Aluminum Company of Canada. As there is a possibility that
Mr. Higgins may be sent to Japan again after the war he is
MAY 4 1942
desirous that his name should not be mentioned in connection
FILD
with the information supplied.
Respectfully yours,
PS/RV
MeByington,
American Consul (Genera)
V
Enclosure:
Memoranduy, in duplicate.
HMB/10'g
711/863.5

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
20th Apr11 1942.
The writer having spent nearly two years in Japan up to the year 1927,
thought it might be of interest in the war effort if he passed along certain
information in connection vith industry of which he had personal knowledge.
I had the opportunity of visiting the copper minos, electrolytic refinery
and smelter owned and operated by the Sumitomo Copper Company, head office in
Osaka. The mines and the electrolytic refinery aro located on the island of
Shikoku, the mines are near a little towm called Besshi, about six miles from
the north side of the island; the rofinery is in a towm called Niihama on
the south shore of the inland sea. The smelter is located on a small island
about four miles off-shore and about equi-distant between Shikoku and the
mainland (Honshu).
The smelter at that ti e was plainly marked as th re was a brick stack to
disperse the fumes which originated in the smelting process.
The location of these plants is anproximately at the point of a triangle
with the base line runnin: hetween Okayama and the Kure Haval Base, and I would
estimate the distance between either of the two places mentioned above at about
forty miles each.
My recol:ection as to the output of copper from this company is not very
clear, but fro.. the size of the plant would estimate that the output of ingot
copper was at least l00,000 tons per year.
Judging frcm the actions of the Japanese police when I finished my visit
to the copper mines and en route to a seaside resort near Shiminoseki, I have
roason to believe that I am one of few foreigners who had a chance to see much

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
of that part of Japan, and from the actions of the police they did not appear to
like the idea of my having a view of the Kure Naval Base, even from the deck of
a ship. The Japanese who accompanicd me on the trip was questioned a great deal
as to who I was, and where I was going, and so forth.
On account of certain business reasons, the writer would prefer to make this
report anonymously, but I am passing it along through the Honorable Homer Byington,
U.S. Consul in Montreal, and I, of course, have disclosed my name and business
connection to me.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
7
SECEIVEN
ECEIVED
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Istanbul, Turkey, March 9, 1943
10
COFILENTIAL
DOA
3
1- PS
eg
6/19/43
DAPAHTMENTOFSTATE
MAY 22 1943
JAPANESE MALTINE INI USTRY
For Distrilution
Prepared by Roy . I elbourne
ONI
2245
BEW
855
aide
Table of Contents
DIVISIUN OF COMMERCIAL AFT
Page
Summary and Introduction
2
I. Government Control of Industry
3
The Creation of Additional Control
1943
Associations ....
3
Description of the New Control Association
3
Government Plan for Strengthening the
Wartime Industrial Structure
4
II. Basic Industrial Developments
10
Wartime Industrial. Investments
10
Desire for Increased Mass Production
11
Industrial Loans
12
Standardization of Manufacturing Equip-
ment and Steel Products
12
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mobilization
DIVISION

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
1. e
obilizationmalo
Phe Prone
ircraft Industry
14
Need for killed orkers
14
III. Electric ower
16
Government Control of Electric ower
16
The  lectrie o er reblem
16
ower fro
16
ivuluation of leetric
ower
17
IV. Light I etais ..
18
Government oliey wit eard to the
Light Metal Industry
18
Bauxite Gources ...
18
Light etal roduction
18
A Reported ow System of luminum
roduction
19
V. Mining
20
Government Mining olicy
20
Tungsten inin
20
Copner l'iniu
20
Mercury roduction
20
Government Folicy Toward sbestos
roduction.
21
jources of Asbestos
21
VI. Chemicals and Fibres
22
A Reported Nev: Nitric cid Irocess
22
Vegetable Tannin
22
Pulp Substitutes
22
Cellophane Substitute
22
Soda Tlant Construction
22
Vulcanized Fiber
22
Staple Fibers
23
Test Taboratory in " anchoukuo"
23
Synthetic Rubber
23
VII. Fuels
24
Non-Freezing fuel
24
Shale Oil as Motor-Car Fuel
24
Animal Fats and Vegetable Cil for
Tubricants ....
24
Lubricating Oil from Copra
24
The Development of Buthanol
25
Plants for Manufacturing Buthanol
26
Oil Produotion from Rubber
26
VIII. Land Transportation
27
Relation of Transport and Industry
27
Government Railway Policy
27
Report Upon Railway Transportation
27
Government Transportation Priorities
28

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
SUMMARY
Nine additional key industries are vei controiled
by the Government turouch industriul associations.
new national industrial plan is to be ut into effect
starting in the fiscal year 1943-44. Japanese artime
Industrial investments may be considered to include
practically all invested capital in recent years and tnis
type of national invostment has inmeasurably strengthened
the country. Industrialists realize that Japanese industry
requires a tremendous expansion. 3mall companies are being
assisted by the Government. stanaardization measures have
been taken for steel products and e uipment and ull smull
factories are being mobilized for the war effort. dditional
supplies of special steel alloys would naturally be expected
to improve the quality of Japanese steel, but because of
small production Japan must make two tons of iron do the
work of three. Mitsui is expandin its aircraft plant
facilities. Special inducements are being made to secure
skilled workers in the machine tool industry. A shortage
of electric power is a great problem in Japan with the
necessity for increased industrial production. Bauxite
from the South is a main source of aluminum and plants are
being built in Forea and North China. Because of trans-
portation difficulties mineral resources nearby are being
intensively exploited. Tungsten is comin: from Burma,
subsidies are necessary for copper mining, mercury deposits
are being worked in "Manchukuo" and North China and asbestos
is secured from the latter areas, korea and Formosa. New
methods have been announced for producing nitric acid,
vegetable tannin, wood pulp substitutes, synthetic rubber,
and various forms of vulcanized and staple fibers. A new
non-freezing liquid fuel has been announced, "Manchukuo"
shale oil is being processed, animal fats and vegetable
oils are producing lubricating oils, as is copra and
cocoanut oil. Buthanol fram sugar is producing iso-octane
for aviation fuel. Land transport is directly related to
industrial production and quantities of trucks and addi-
tional railroad trackage are considered vital. A report
has suggested the unification of railway control within
the Japanese Empire. There is a long list of commodities
granted rail transport priorities.
INTRODUCTION
The information for this report has been secured from
Mr. Ramon LAVAILE, who was formerly Special Attache at the
Argentine Embassy in Tokyo, Japan. During his stay, from
April 1942 until January 9, 1943, Mr. Lavalle collected
extensive material upon the Japanese industrial system
from all printed sources, which was supplemented by con-
versations with prominent foreigners in Japan and some
Japanese businessmen.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
I. GOVERNMENT CONTROL OF INDUSTRY
The Creation of dditional ont rol  ssociations.
Upon the outoreak of wur witi tre  nit-d states the
Japanese Government or anized a ystem of control associa-
tions for at least 22 key industries in the national eco-
nomy, which were to supervise, under Government direction,
the activities of all companies operating within their
respective provinces. 0n Tuly 28 and July 30, 1942, it
was announced in the TA N TI Es  AnVs TIJER, that the
"second stave" of the commerce and Industry : inistry's
program for control of various key inaustries wus shortly
expected to be enforced by virtue of an impending Govern-
ment ordinance. The newly proposed control associations
would affect the light metal, chemical, rubuer, leather,
fats and oils and textile industries.
Desoription of the Mew Control Associations.
The Government's announcements re arding the 9 control
associations to be formed under the "second stage" program
itemized under each association the types of industrial
manufacture and distribution that each would supervise.
Because of its importance the officially prescribed list,
as published in the JaPAN TIN AD DVERTIJER of July 30,
1942, is given below:
1. Light Metal Control Association.
Production and sale of aluminum, alumina,
magnesium, cryolite and aluminum fluoride;
and also the sale of aluminum scrap, magnesium
scrap, bauxite and alumina rock (including the
similar line of trade in Chosen and Taiwan).
2. Chemical Industry Control Association.
Production and sale of chemical products
(sulphate of ammonia, lime-nitrogen. Super-
phosphate of lime, synthetic fertilizers, nitric
acid, ammonia, of nitric acid, nitrous acid
soda, oxygenic ammonia, sulphuric acid, chloric
soda, ohlorate, bleaching powder, carbide, acety-
lene inducting materials, fermenting butyric
albohol, fermenting acetone, metanol and metanol
inducting materials, gas and neutral oil fractional
ly distilled, tar mediums and synthetic dyestuff),
excluding the sale of sulphate of ammonia, lime-
nitrogen, superphosphate of lime and synthetic
fertilizers.
3. Rubber Control Association.
Sale of rubber, and production and sale of
rubber produots.
4.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
4. Hide and !eather Control Association.
Froduction and anle of hide and leather and also
the uroduction n
ien
rodets
und tannine arus.
5. Cil und Fat Contro: ssoci ition.
"roduction und sule of oil und fat products
(including hardened oil, hardened grease and fatty
acid), and production nd sale of paints (including
the similar line of trude in Chosen).
6. cotton and Stap le fiber Control association.
roduction, finishing and sale of cotton yarn,
staple fiber yarn and yurns of other descriptions
turned out through the process of cotton and staple
fiber spinning production, finishing and sale of
cotton cloth, staple fiber cloth and clothing mate-
rials of other descriptions turned out through the
process of cotton and staple fiber weaving, and sale
of fishing nets made of cotton and sale of raw cotton.
7. 3ilk and Rayon Control ssociation.
Production, finishin: and sale of silk yarn
of other descriptions turned out through the process
of silk weaving; production, finishing and sale of
rayon pulp, staple fiber and rayon yarn; production,
finishing and asked (?) of rayon cloth, silk cloth
and cloths of other descrintions turned out through
the process of rayon weavin, and also sale of the
by-products of raw silk.
8. Wool Control Association.
Froduction, finishin and sale of woollen yarn
and yarns of other description turned out through the
process of wool weaving; production, finishing and sale
of woollen cloth and clothin material of other des-
criptions turned out through the process of wool
weaving; production, finishin and sale of felts;
and also sale of wool itself.
9. Hemp Control Association.
Production and sale of hamp products (excluding
production of yarn turned out through the process of
cotton and staple fiber spinning or through the pro-
cess of wool weaving, and production and sale of
clothing materials turned out through the process
of cotton, staple fiber and rayon or wool weaving);
and also sale of hemp itself.
Government Plan for Strengthening the Wartime Industrial
Struoture.
It was reported by the JAPAN TIMES AND ADVERTISER
of November 8, 1942, that the Commarce and Industry
Ministry

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Ministry had approved a general plan to increase the
country's industrial production nd that this plan would
be put into effect begin ins pril 1, 1943, the start
of the fiseal year. There were four oojectives which
the new nlan would se n to yitain and they ine luded a
reat output expansion of te "more impor tunt branenes
of the mining industry", increusing the efficiency and
precision of important mechinery, reatly expanding the
output of the "more iaportant branches of the chemicul
industry" and lastly, the vigorous continuance of ex-
periments upon materials from the jouth to supplement
Japan's own resources.
Because of its iportance, it is ce med wise to
include verbatim the ien thy statenent of the Com.erce
and Industry Ministry, vhich outlines fully the expected
course of expansion of Japanese industry. This statement
is given below:
1. Item concernin the increase of the pro-
ductive efficiency of principal mining industries.
Policy. A fixed standard of productive efficiency
Is to be established. t the same time various
concrete measures are to be adopted to increase
the nroductive efficiency of individual mines and
factories. The aim of all these steps is to
strengthen the total productive power of the in-
dustries concerned by increasing the productive
efficiency of individual industries. The state
of production of important materials at the
present moment vas taken in view in deciding to
adopt these measures.
Important Points of the Plan.
a. Standards of efficiency are to be estab-
lished for the iron industry, coal industry, and
important machinery industries during the 1943-44
fiscal year.
b. The ratio of the working of equipment,
ratio of the use of principal materials, and labor
efficiency by unit output are to be taken into on-
sideration in fixing the standards of efficiency.
The standards are to be such as will meet the needs
of wartime production.
c. The standards of efficiency are to be fixed
by the Government.
d. The various control associations, the Nippon
Efficfency Institute, and the Association for Service
to the State Through Industry are to be utilized in
conducting investigatioms with regard to the determina-
tion of the standards of efficiency. The representatives
of

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
of these organizations are to fom what is pro-
visionally called the Commission on the Establish-
ment of standards of roductive Efficiency to
facilitate the way in whict the or anizations will
be utilized in e :tter.
e. The work vr ins eetin the efficieney rate
of the mines one f cteries w ien ere to ooserve the
standerds of efficiency und guidin: the work of these
mines and factories is to be undertaken by the various
control associations with the cooperation of the
Nippon Efficiency Institute and the ssociation for
service to the itute rurou  ndustry. In this work
the control ssccintions vi'l e under the sunervision
of officials in c r e of on ineerin", minin and labor
affairs.
f. A system is to be established for granting
rewards to companies, factories and paces of work
which have made a contribution toward the increase
of productive efficiency and to officials and enployees
of companies, factories and laces of work who have
promoted such a contributicn.
2. Item concernin- the heiitenin of the accuracy
of important macLinery.
Folicy. There is a need of increasin the efficiency
of machine tools of particularly urgent necessity and
of improving the quality of cast metal for use in the
manufacture of bigh class machinery in order to raise
the level of the machinery industry of our country.
In order to meet this need, the system of inspection
of machine tools is to be strengthened. This would
stimulate the production of superior grades of machine
tools. With regard to cast metel for use in the manu-
facture of machinery, the inspection system and the
arrangements for technical guidance are to be made
adoquate. The motive of these measures is to realize
a speedy increase in the rate of precision of the more
important machinery.
Key points of the Plan.
I. A system for the recognition by the Govern-
ment of superior machine tools is to be effected. At
the same time, the system for the inspection of machine
tools is to be strengthened. The results of the
working of the system of recognition is to be consider-
ed in deciding which industrialists will be permitted
to operate under the Machine Tool Industry Law and
which factories should be permitted to take steps to
expand their produotion under the same law.
a. The products of those engaged in the machine
tools industry throughout the c∞untry are to be ema-
mined by the National Machinery Inspection Institut
and

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
and the machine tool inpsection institutes in
the principal prefectures.
b. The Comnerce and Industry Minister is
to recognize the cspacity of superior redes of
machine tools produced by surerior mukers under
the re ulations overnin the reco mition of
machinery. In coing so, the  inister will oe
suided by tme rosultst ined y tne inspection
institutes.
c. The Notional  achinery Inspection Insti-
tute is to unaertuve the examination of the pro-
ducts of principal mekers. It also is to uide
the machine tool ins ection institutes in the
principal prefectires in t. eir work of inspection.
d. In inspectin tlhe products of makers, the
National Machinery Inspection Institute and the
machine tool inspection institutes in the principal
prefectures are to sive tecrnical guidance to the
makers.
II. - The quality of high-class cast metal is
to be improved.
a. The Important chinery Ind ustry Law is to
be applied to enterprises engaged in the manufacture
of cast metal for use in the manufacture of high-
class machinery. The motive of the measure is to
establish these enterprises on a firmer foot ing.
b. Technical guidance by itinerant officia ls
is to be given to factories turning out cast metal
for high-class machinery.
c. Institutes for inspection of metallic
material is to be established in the princ ipal pre-
fectures. These institutes are to undertake the
inspection of high-class cast metal and other im-
portant metallic material. The National Machinery
Inspection Institute is to give guidance to these
institutes.
3. Item concerning the expansion and strength-
ening of the production of important industrial
chemicals.
Policy. Steps are to be taken to increase the pro-
duction of the more important of industrial che-
micals needed by the munitions industry. They will
include measures to bring about a speedy extension
and adjustment of produotion facilities, and promote
the study of the manufacturing methods.
Key Points of the Plan.
a. Various measures are to be adopted to
increase the produotion of principal materials for
explosives

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
ex: losives like ummoniun nitrate, nitric ucie,
alycerine, benzol ane toluol unc of important
catalyzers. they ineluce te secur ine of the
supplies of necessary facilities, an? the ivin
of technicul guidance in ntlic to manuf cturers
of these materiuls.
b. s a step toward increusin the production
of aluminum, the Institute of Industrial Research
is to be mede to in uire i t te roform of tne
method of refinine aluminw. by electrolysis und
investigate the improvement of the method of manu-
facturing cryolites and electrodes.
c. As a step toward increasing the production
of isobutanol and other high-class aviation fuel,
the Institute of Industrial Research is to be made
to study the ecuipment for the manufacture of these
materials and to take stens to bring about an im-
provement in the method of manufacturing the materials.
d. As a step toward achieving a phonomenal in-
crease in the roduction of chemiculs of high decrees
in purity for use in experiments, the Institute of
Industrial Research is to be made to investigate and
to undertake the manufacture of the chemicals.
4. Iten concernin: the promotion of the study
of the method of utilizin materials in the jouthern
Area.
Policy. Steps are to be taken to promote on a planned
basis the experimental study of the utilization of
materials in the Southern Area. The underlying idea
is to make pod the shortage of materials in Tapan
with materials in the Southern Area.
Key Points of the Plan.
a. Experimental studies are to be conducted to
see how to replenish the supplies of important products
of the mining industry in Japan with materials in the
Southern Area.
b. The Chemical Board and other Government offices
upon consultation with other Government organizations
concerned is to determine what materials in the South-
ern Area are needed in Japan.
c. The experimental studies are to be conducted
by the various governmental institutes of researoh
under the jurisdiction of various Ministries and
oivilian

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
-9-
civilian companies, or anizations, and research
institutes.
d. re lovernment is te runt suusicies
to civilian con miss,r mizutions 
institutes whiel re te conduct the stuc ies. ie
rechnical roure, uron consultution with tne vurious
Government offices concerned, will distribute the
subsidies. The Ponrd end the various linistries
concerned are to ive guidance to institutes in the
conduct of their enerimental studies.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
II. BASIC INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
Wartime Industrial Investrents.
n ineein
ap eared in tue t
eoft
1942,10
try1
terms of e: ital investment sinee the ne innin of the
China war in l937. The article furnisnes some tatis-
tical figures whien are of inter st, alt ough naturally
their accuracy is unknown. Tt is cleimed that tne fol-
lowing amounts were inv te. i.
urin
t.
vear
Yen
1937
3,527,000,000
1938
3,976,000,000
1939
5,308,000,000
1940
4,469,000,000
1941
5,468,000,000
1942
4,384,000,000 (for the
five Lonths endin in I ay).
The fi ures iven cbove tutal 7,s,000, oc0 yen,
the total of all  lanned cn ital in Jupanese wartime
industries. aditionally, the article re ortedly states
that tnere are 15,000,000 yen invested by anks ana Trust
Companies for the expansion of inaustril productivity,
which would thus represent for Ta un & totul inaustrial
investment expansion of 43,000,C00,000 yen in five and
a half years.
Another table given in the NI l KOgYo article is
given below:
Year
Planned Capital
Wartime Industry
ercent
1937
3,627,000,000
2,157,000,000
59.4
1938
3,976,000,000
2,985,000,000
75.0
1939
5,308,000,000
4,264,000,000
80.3
1940
4,496,000,000
3,317,000,000
73.7
1941
5,468,000,000
4,051,000,000
74.0
1942(up 3,795,000,000
3,171,000,000
83.6
to the end of April).
out of the total mobilized capital, 26,850,000,000
yen, or 74.3 percent, has been invested in wartime
industries. A table showing the method of industrial
investment in Japan is given by the NIKKAN KOGYO article
in the following form:
Year

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
vear
New Companies
Capital Increase
Debentures
1937
1,908,000,000
1,582,000,000
135,000,000
1938
1,54,000,000
1,7:0,000,000
561,000,000
1939
2,825,000,000
1,039,000,00
1,84,000,000
1940
864,00,000
,
1,:87,000,000
1941
1,333,000,000
,456,000,000
1,698,000,000
1942
2,436,000,000
880,000,000
1,03,000,000
(up to the end
of Nay)
From the above fiures it will be seen tnt the greatest
capital increases have come witnin the existin inaustrial
concerns, whie mave peen su pent in their c i'  ince the
outbreak of the China incident, in orde: to enltre tneir
production. One explanation offered for the rise in the
amount of debentures since 1937 is stateu to be the low
rates of interest they bear, which renders the issuance
of new debentures more profitable than the issuance of
new shares, since the latter would be accompanied by the
payment of dividends at a higher rate. one reason for the
increase in investments in new compunies is stated to be
based upon the formation of state policy companies upon
national lines for the control of various industries,
such as electric nower distribution.
The great increuse in -a unese industrial producti-
vity has immeusurably stren thened the country and this
office's informant, fron is contacts with prominent
foreigners in Tapan and some Ta anese industrial leaders,
emphasizes ti.ut tis industrial plant cannot be under-
estimated. Even with the southern areas cut off from
the sphere of Tapan, "Manchoukuo" and North China,
the latter areas, in the belief of foreign residents in
Japan and Jananese, would be able to continue industrial
production upon a respectable scale based upon the organ-
ization in operation within tnis area.
Desire for Increased Mass roduction.
Despite the great Japanese industrial expansion
mentioned in the previous section, it is reported that
there are some sections of Japanese opinion which hold
that, after all, Japan's progress is actually small in
comparison with its real wartime industrial requirements.
At a round table conference of industrialists, which was
reported by the TOKYO NICHI NICHI at the end of Septem-
ber 1942, the president of the Hokushin Electric Machi-
nery Company claimed that certain industries needed as
much as a tenfold expansion and that "on the average
Japan's industries require a general five to sevenfold
expansion of their produotive capacities." He reportedly
concluded his part of the disoussion by stating that "to
produce an epooh-making renovation for enhancement of
productive efficienoy is the problem left to the Govern-
ment, as well as to the industrial leaders."
Industrial

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
-12-
Industrial Loans.
A Government snonsored bunk msinly to ertend
faci lities to si nurursto rs w
were forcet
ownir etories teres
in view overalieyreers ne fheruse
control, is stute  be  tt eonleehabilita-
tionank, founeu  he  ita of tnis nk
was stated to iave incronsed to 20, 00o, 0oo yen by uly
194l and, early in l942 after a revision of its articles,
this is stated to have increased to 50, 0o0, 000 yen. the
loans advanced are n e u on tie security of industrial
euuipment fci li, lueledly is esti-
meted by or anizations inucture. st tisties
iven to this of fice clai t ut out of 45,0c, o00 yen
advanced, 37,000,C00 yen were loaned upon idle facili-
ties as security, with an additional 6,850,000 yen
assigned to the relief of small manufacturers and
traders.
Standardization of. anufacturing quipment and steel
Products.
To assist in industrial expansion, the Iron and
Steel Control ssociation Wus reported by the ChUGaI
SiOgYo of jeptember 8, 194: to ave decided upon the
standardization of steel ranufacturing e uipment and
steel products.  uipment reportedly has been class-
ified into five items, under the eneral headings of
steel making, iron manufacturin , rolling, processing
and auxiliary ecuipment. In connection with such a
contemplated reorganization it is stated that one
form will be standarization of "rules for the des-
cription of manufacturing equipment by the parties
engaged in the production of key connodities."
Further information unon the subject of machi-
nery standardization was reported by OI on Dec-
ember 23, 1942 to the effect that it had been offi-
cially decided to "define specifications for diffe-
rent parts of larger machinery, as well as small
machine tools, in order to facilitate the develop-
ment of natural resources through the standardization
of parts and acce sories of important machinery and
tools." The new specifications allegedly would take
into consideration the varying climatic cond itions
where they were to be used, in order not to impair
the efficiency of tools and machines manufactured
under the required specifications.
Mobilization of Small Factories.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry was reported
by the NIPPON KOGYO of October 8, 1942, to be evolving
a mobilization plant to include all small factories
within

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
-13-
within the scope of cirect vur roduction, "in view
of the urrent nera
in
of mirlanes, tanks,ns,is,is
and oti er e uirment."
to tre full every bit  i e inats r equipment.
However, it is srie tht et  itiroco nize ut
it is just as important to avoia  decline in the pro-
duction efficiency of tools ne m cnines for civilian
use, as well as for use in the war. It is "roposed
additionally that factories roducin wor equinment
now will be converted to ot ur more r ent we ro-
duction usesn
rtier inotion
ives ingenious transformations of in' ustril fuctory
plants from one type of war production to anotler. It
is stated, for example, that some maciine tools and
industrial plants may be partially adapted to pro-
ducing shelis and acartridges and fuctories producing
motor vehicles may be partially converted to shell
production, to makin tank parts, nd into motor vehicle
repair shops.
The Iron and Steel Industry.
Based upon the fact ti it Japan is consiuered now
able to obtain sunplies of riv materiuls from the
southern regions ne ded in makin s ecial steel a loys
entailin the use of tun "sten, vanadium and molybdenum,
an optimistic article anneared in the "Ill YOGYD of
July 30, 1942 unon the subject of the "revolutionary
change" that these new factors meant for thhe Tunanese
iron and steel industry. The reat vulue of these spe-
cial steels in wartime industrial manufacturin was
pointed out end it vas emphasized that now Tanan could
count upon large supplies of these needed materials.
There was a DoMEI report from "Manchoukuo" on October
15, 1942 stating that the Tung Pien Tao Development
Company had succeeded in manufecturing a special steel
whose quality might be considered superior to that of
imported Swedish steel. Indoubtedly this iter means
that the Japanese are using the raw materials now avail-
able to them in the south in the manufacture of herd
steel alloys.
Another DOMEI report of December 15, 1942 from
Peking claimed that the Japanese Government had decided
to form the North China Steel Manufacturing Company to
include all companies operating in this area, and that
it was estimated the combine would possess a capital of
100 million yen. Re-organization and enlargement of
existing productive facilities were said to be envisaged,
which was to include the installation of a number of
blast furnaces. It was expected that by the end of l942
this enterprise would be fully integrated and operating,
according to the article.
An

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
An announcement has been reported of a plan for
developing pig iron production unon the Island of
Formosa, which would enable that locality to export
iron and steel materials to the outh. The Taiwan
Fower Comm any Ileredly i onstruct steel mi 1
on the islune r ie t uti iize voer su liec y
raikokei powrtie se
t. e upan meltin Som umy
lumnin new werkst
iitaka,  Formosan vort.
Japanese iron ana steel production, accoruin: to
this office's informant, is severely suffering along
with the rest of the ananese economy because of the
grave shortage of searnsport.is necesoarily
slows down roduction, sinetea orn
portec under inereasin ly  i icult con.itions. This
und oubtedly will have un dverse effect u on the uality
of Japanese steel production, when : remark is again
reneated as having been made by a prominent Japanese
official and given in t is of fice's recent report,
"Japanese Wartime Shippin: une 1942 - January 1943",
that Japan necessarily "must nuke  tons of iron do the
work formerly done by 3 tons."
Aircraft Industry:
There is little definite information re ardin tie
state of present Tupanese ireruft production. The
inocious statement hus been re orted as made by the
president of the Ja anese hipbuilding ssociation in
an srticle written in the fall of 1y42, that "the air-
craft manufacturing industry is now functioning satis-
factorily."
There was one report that apoeared about July 1942,
which states that the Mitsui interests had bought the
Showa Airoraft Works and planned to include its plant
with another aircraft factory to be established, "by
mobilizing the capital and technicians of the Janan
Steel Works and several other minor industries belonging
to Mitsui." In connection with increased aircraft pro-
duction, it was claimed that the supply of bauxite would
be obtained from the South Sea Aluminum Company, that
this bauxite would be manufactured into alumina at the
Miike factory of the Toyo Light Metal Industry Company,
and that alumina produced at the Toyo Company's refinery
would be made into duraluminum at the Showa Works and
then sent to the assembly plant.
Need for Skilled Workers:
The Commerce and Industry Ministry declared to the
press at the end of September 1942 that a plan was being
continued, which had started 3 months before, for seouring
skilled workers in the machine tool and oil drilling machine
industries.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
industries. It was stated that the Cabinet Planning
Board had been trying to increase the volume of labor
for these industries by expediting distribution of
daily necessities to workers in these industries, by
giving them better rations and wages, and expediting
the flow of construction materials to build boarding
houses for them.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
-16-
III. ETECTRIC OTER
Government Control of eetl le  ewer.
The Tanonese ress of venber:, La, stuted
that the overnment s inteninmo:tntro
system for the supply of eiectric oer "or the enerl
adjustment of ull electricul en ineerin works in Jupan.
NIPPON SANGYO outlined four reasures the Govern ent in-
tended to follow under this ro re., hici. included co-
ordinating ll electricnl en ineerin enternrises rom
e vocation l view oint, ovoivin
teri
distribution system, mobilizins e ectrie l en ineers unt
artisans, and re-educating t em in accoruance wit: the
latest technical developments in ten.
potential
control association was being studied by the Conmerce and
Industry and the Co.  unications : inistries to supervise
all matters of public en ineerin, as, running water,
electrical engineering  orks, nd to coordinate the ir
activities with similur bocies orcratin wit the wart ime
Ministries.
The Electric ower roblem.
one of the reat indrinc to  nese ineutril
productivity is the shorta e of electric power. hen
sea transport difficuities ar: overcome unu tne raw
materials finally reach Jaoan, then t.ere is nother
bottleneck in the power slortae, icr is stated by
this office's informant to be unrelieved. Observers
were aware of this power shortage before the outbreak
of the war with the United states and it is stated that
power plants were ordered to be constructed at several
places throughout the country in l94l, and again in May
1942 when directions were given by the Electric Power
Generation and istribution Company.
Power plants in the course of construction in l941
are said to have been completed, but progress of addi-
tional work reportedly has been slow because of the
shortage of building materials and thus orders for new
plants allegedly have been impossible to be translated
from blue prints to actual construction. It is now
reported that present plans call for at least l0 new
power plants capable of generating from 10,000 to
30,O00 kilowatts each. Any further expansion beyond
this point is unknown upon the basis of reports
available.
Power from Lake Biwa.
Because coal is so necessary in Japan for electric
power generation and coal is increasingly difficult to
transport by sea, other alternatives within the country
have been sought. Lake Biwa and Lake Chuzenji have been
turned into potential electric power generators and on
December

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
December 9, 1942, the Cabinet allegedly approved projects
submitted by the planning Board for the utilization of
the waters of Lake Biwa to increase the output of electri-
city. This operation reportedly would mean opening the
dam at seta, formerly closed during the winter months and
to let the released waters run into the Ujikawa river to
be used by the power plants at Uji, Shizukawa and Ohmine.
It is estimated that this will lower the level of Lake
Biwa by about 60 centimeters from December 20, 1942 to
the end of February l943, but the saving in coal is held
to make this necessary.
The Lake Chuzenji power project reportedly was in-
augurated on December 20, 1942, with a new waterway
being built to carry lake water, said to have been dammed
since November 1942, to Hannya and Hoto Falls, where it
would be used by the Hosu and Betsukura power plants.
Suoh power reportedly would supply industrial plants
in Toohigi prefecture. Power thus generated allegedly
would be only one tenth of that gained from lake Biwa.
Evaluation of Electric rower Plants.
The Communications Ministry held a meeting of dectric
power companies at the end of 3eptember 1942 for the
purpose of securing a basic schedule for electric power
valuation. This reportedly was made necessary in connect-
ion with the adjustment of power transmission territories
formerly occupied by the Tokyo Electric Company to the
west of the Fujikawe river in Shizuoka as well as terri-
tories in Hyogo prefecture formerly controlled by the
Sanyo Company. Frices in connection with ownership
transfers were disoussed for these territories, as well
as those reported to effect some 17 eleotric enterprises
in Ibaraki and other prefectures. The valuation of the
total electric power enterprises to be generally adjusted
amounted to 87 million yen.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
-18-
IV. LIGHT METALS
covernment olicy wit
i nt t
ndustry.
there is te.
ent s onsorit
Fetal Control asscciation t s seenin to iner se
the fonufecture of aluminum, lw.ine, manesiun, cryolite,
and other li tht metals hich mu be obtained fro the
occunied southern re ions. e ov rnment policy with
regard to aluminun product ion is I orted in the Torvo
IMBUN for ovember l, Ie, wi states tht since
aluminum procuction  i tensive  ectriee
it is tnou t more cesirtt uninumlants nd
the necessary power source s.. ule ve ueveloped outside
of the count ry in : orea unc Formosa, "where lenty of
power is available." in interestin comnentary on the
light metal industry is r norted as having been made
by Tr. Wataro  anno, a  iet member, who on November 19,
1942, returned from an extensive trip ti rou h the occu-
pied territories. is renurks ure guoted as follows:
"I have been tole thet projects are being
made in Tapan to transfer light metal plants
to the southern re ions tnd this scheme has been
warmly aporoved by the . ilitary dministrations
down there. Phere is reuson to anticipate a
concrete proram bein introduced by the rmy
so as to accelerate the realization of tne scheme."
Additional confimation of this plan to include
Korea, Formosa and "anchoukuo" was given by the Ioy
KOGYo on November 25, 1942, when it stated that "a
second 5-year plan was bein: carried out for the expan-
sion of Janan's aluninum industry."
Bauxite Sources.
An article upon the future of Japan's aluminum
industry in the magazine YOGYO YOKUSAkU reportedly was
written by the General Manager of the Showa lectric
Works. He stated that Janan's sources of bauxite from
the South were in Johore, Bintan Island of the Rhio
Archipelago and Bataan in the Philiprines. It was
claimed in the article that the South has bauxite stocks
that "can be considered as inexhaustible." This access-
ion of national economic power to Japan was claimed to
be of the greatest importance in further strengthening
the country's economy, in view of what the nation had
done previously without possessing high grade bauxite
within its own territories.
Light Metal Produotion.
It is claimed in an article published in September
1942 that the Japan Nitrio Company is cooperating with
the Sumitomo Company in the establishment of an aluminum
plant in northern Korea, which will be operated by hydro-
olectrio power from the Yalu River.
Also

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
Also in conneotion with the expansion of light
motal production it reportedly was announced that
the Kobe Steel Company in cooperation with the Japan
Nitric Company is working to increase its magnesium
output.
A Reported New System of Aluminum Production.
This office's informant states that in January,
just prior to his departure from Japan, he received
infommation from a reliable source that the Nipnon
Nitrogen Fertilizer Company had begun operating
aluminum plants somewhere in North China us ing "the
newly invented sodalime system." This report states
that the mills later shifted the alumina shale refining
process from the electric furnace system to the soda-
lime one," thereby attaining a remarkable increase in
the quality of the product." The electric furnace
system allegedly produces aluminum of 90 percent
purity, while the newly introduced process reportedly
attains 99.3 percent purity. The Imperial Light Metal
Control Company, states the same reponer, allegedly
adopted the Beyer system last year, considering it to
be the best one for alumina shale refineries. However,
the new system seid to be in use in 'orth China is now
claimed to be more hihly considered not only because
of increased quality but allegedly because it is
possible to convert the refineries "to the bauxite
refining process in case of need."

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
- 20 -
Mining:
Government Mining Folicy. The Greater East Asia
Ministry, really the Coloniul Deurt ent of Japun, is
reportedly devot
to erort to
the exploitation of
e
regione such 
This is consiuere tot,
increase its heed
eerials.
an interesting commentury upon the need for Japan
to intensify its home mi ine racilities in view of
trans ort difriculties pro. the south was iven by
Japunese prese re: orts  0 1 : 1 42, wich includec
a stutement uy tbureau.
He allegedly said that the conntry low ussessed im-
mense mineral resources in t.e Scuti. and that there is
a common belief in Japun that it is not necessary to
develop mineral resources neur at hole. he stated that
one of the great obstacles to the use of the southern
mineral resources Was the roblem of trans ortation and
that "it was a . larin mistake to tnink that Japan can
disregard the minerul roducts ut home on account of its
mineral sources in the southern areas."
Tunesten Mining. Tne oRI I T.L EcC: C IsT of un unknown
month published an rticle by a inin e ineer uion
Japan's tungsten Ios: tion. I. the rticle the writer
allegedly stated thut the ores mined in Korea have been
mostly of the wolf-ramite tyie, but that a fuirly large
deposit of good quulity scheelite was discovered in the
southern part of Korea in 1941. With regard to the
southern regions, the writer claimed tnat there was a
good production of tungsten cre in indo-China, but that
the most attractive mines fro. the Jupanese roint of
view were those located in Burma." These Burmese de-
posits allegedly have been split between two Japanese
concerns, with the Kobayashi Mining Company working
the Northern Burmese tungsten deposits, while the Mit-
subishi concern operutes those in southern Burma.
Copper Mining. The Japanese Government reportedly
has awarded a 12 million yen subsidy through the Mining
Control Association to several copper mining concerns
for their operation of poor quality copper ores. It is
stressed that these ores are considered important in
increasing copper production and is one of the Government
measures used to increase its supply of this metal.
Additional measures are the reclamation of scrap copper,
heavy restrictions on copperware manufacture and the
encouragement of the use of substitutes.
Mercury Production. Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, according
to an October 7, 1942 report of the CHUGAI, is planning
to develop a branch company in "Manchoukuo" with a
capital

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
-21 -
pital of 9 million yen to work mercury deposits there.
large mercury mining plant allegedly will be established
at Chouchangtzu, Jehol, and another mercury suelting works
at Suichung, Chinchow ( resunably Tingchowfu prefecture of
Fukien province).
Government polley Momare pbupstes pcoduetton. The
Ministry of Conmerce ane Thoustry in the midule of ove ver
1942 promuigated asbestos distriuution una supply control
regulations, und also fixed oificiul :rices ror the material.
It was decided that the distribution and sunily of asbestos
would be in the hands of the Japan asbestos Control Company
and that it would handle all of the  uterial coming from
abroad. On Decenber id, 1?, the I.IC . Yo contained
an articie to the tetor that r  urt were teim e
in Japan, Korea, Forlnosa, "Lancnoukuo" a d ortn Cnina to
increase asbestos prouuction in view of the wartime demend.
The article stated that Japan for erly ned been almost en-
tirely dependent upon importations from abroad, but that
the last shipment reached Japan uion a Canaditn vessel in
July 194l. All asvestos conunies in Jupan allegedly met
to discuss measures to increase tieir sup lies by utilizing
reconditioned fibre, developing new resources, encouraging
the use of substitutes, and imy roving manuracturing methods.
lHowever, it is stated by tne IIllON S GYO that Japan re-
quires at the present ti e nin rade fibre, which cannot
be replaced by substitutes or low rude material.
Sources of asbestos. ithin Japan the article in the
NIIHON S NGYO clains that asbestos is found in powdered
form in Saitama, Gunma, Ibaraki, Shizuoka and wakayama
prefectures, while a se i-fibrous asbestos is found in
Fukushima, Lagano, Snizuoka, Fukuoka, and Kumamoto pre-
fectures, but that almost without excertion the delosits
are scanty and of poor quality. asoestos deposits in
Hokkaido "seemed to be ruther substantial," but production
is small. Likewise in Foruosa the quality and production
of asbestos is stated to be low, with the main mine al-
legedly at Shimo Toyoda-. ura in Karenko sub-prefecture.
Within Korea, "Manchoukuo" and North China there are
asbestos deposits and it is stated since September 1941
that the Korean deposits, formerly abandoned, are now
being worked under government auspices. sbestos deposits
are claimed to be found in "Manchoukuo" andaalong the
Korean boundary, althouch "production is not considered
substantial." There are said to be deposits in longolia
that are being worked "but poor communication facilities
are handicapping production to a creut extent." Within
North China the mines are said to be southwest of Wuchuan.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
-22 -
I -
Chomicals and Fibres:
a Reported New  itric pel preeess. laae by
the Japanese p ress of Toverhamp Tk, that Tonoku J perial
University evlve"ae extiric
acin fron the ir." t etoe le sttea to be superior
to the  rocess curretlp ses in catal.  e che leal
reactien is re, orted to ot tne ixin or one jurt of ny-
drogen to two parts of oxy en, then to add a trace of
"Fluorine" of about one ter thousandth or one hundred
thousandth rart to act as a catalyzer, with a syark
discharge then rocucin vitroven dioxide. Siu ly dis-
solvinr the latter in wate i then saie to produee
nitric acid. The rej ort o1 tnis so-called new methoo
emphasizes its reat savin or lectric power over the
ammonia method, wnich alle euly recuires the temperature
to be raised to un excccdin ly hih figure.
Vegetable Tannin. The hide-Leather Control ssocia-
tion reportedly announced a ethod of securing lurge
quantities of tannin fro. raw ve etalle aterials, wiich
it expects to utilize iro... the "abandoned raw veretable
materials, available in the southern areas."
Pulp Substitutes. after a yeur of experimentation it
is stated that the Japanese have discovereu substitutes
for the wood rulp that rormerly cume from the United
States and Canada. Tnese substitutes are said to be four
types of "acerose trees na nely Taiwan red pine, Loochoo
red pine, Wide Leaf red wood, and Manita Cebae and
Carabayan."
Cellophane Substitute. According to an announcement,
one of the Imperial Universities allegedly discovered a
new process for manufacturing a rubber "paper," which is
said to have better moisture proof qualities than cello-
phane. This product has been called "hydrochloric rubber"
and the chemical process involved in its manufacture al-
legedly consists "in running hydrochloric acid gas through
a natural rubber solution of chloride carbon." Optimistic-
ally it is expected that large quantities of the new pro-
dust will be produced in 1943.
Soda Plant Construction. The CHUGAI SHOGYO of an un-
known date reports that the Kanegafuchi Industrial Com-
pany, allegedly capitalized at ten million Yen, has been
constructing a plant in Formosa since July 1942 for bro-
mine and stic soda. Upon the completion of this plant
the company expects to cooperate with other plants of the
Kanegafuchi Cotton Spinning Company in producing salt,
synthetic chlorine and bleaching powder.
Vulcanized Fiber. It is claimed that Japan is now
manufacturing through a chemical process a vulcanized
fiber from raw materials taken from cotton rags found in
cotton spinning mills. This fiber is claimed to be used
as

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
-23-
as an insulator in certain ca, acities, because of its
reported resitnee
P electrjcity.
T.e rihioninee,
le Jupanese ress,
is un obstaev
Staple Fivers:
Before the war, us is well known, Jaran experimented
and froduced many varieties of staple fiber products,
but their poor quality muce them very unpopular with the
public as substitutes for cottor u. woollen poods.
However th is or: iee's ror ant stat.s thet the overn-
ment has been conauet in its pesearen to ip rove the
qualities of tnese ruuric suustitutes una has developed
several new forms of staple fiber that meet, at least
partially, the objections raisej to the old vurieties.
The new forms of stuple fiber ure termed "highly poly-
merized stable fiber, hollow staple fiber, casein staple
fiber and dyed-in-stock staple fibor." Compressed
staple fiber reyortedly has a "resemblance to wool"
fro the point of view of warmth and elasticity and
therefore is suitable for clothing, uslin substitutes
and stockings. ollow staple fiber alle edly is less
elastic than the ior er, tut resembles weol more closely
and is suitable for uslin aress substitutes. Cusein
staple fiber has no elasticity ct ull, put may be eusily
colored with oxygenous ave-stuff unu is suitable for or-
dinary clothing und nosiery pur, oses. irhly polymer-
ized fiber is claimed to ue lar less uuraple than cotton,
but its softness akes it suitable as a cotton cloth
substitute. Tne stated !rincipal merit of dyed-in-stock
fiber is that it can be easily colored before weaving.
Test Laboratory in "ianchoukuo":
The Institute of Scinetiric Research allegedly or-
ganized by the South  Manchurian Railway, is claimed to
have finished a "Low Temperature Test Laboratory" which
seeks to study the uffects of the intense "Ilanchoukuo"
cold upon food, fuel, automobiles and various types of
construction.
Synthetic Rubber:
About the middle of July, 1942, the NIFFON KOGYO
allegedly stated that by the end of the year Japan's
synthetic rubber industry would be really started.
The Kurozaki factory allegedly had started operations
with a production goal of one ton of synthetic rubber
a day. The Mitsui and Sumitomo interests also were
said to be expecting to start production by the end
of the year. In view of the question naturelly arising
why synthetic rubber should be needed in Japan when
natural rubber resources in the South were available,
the article states that "synthetic rubber was going
to be manufactured for special purposes."

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
Fuolg:
Non-freezing fuel:
A report of the Tokyo NICHI-NICHI of an unknown
date claims that a research institute in "Manchoukuo"
has disoovered aliquid fuel that will not freeze until
temperatures far below zero are reeched. The only
detail contained in the article regarding the fuel is
that "it is obtained through the utilization of yeast."
The report adds that the new fuel would make sub-zero
winter fighting conditions possible and that plans
were being drawn to produce this fuel on a large scale.
Shale Oil as Motor-Car Fuel:
The end of July the NIFFON KOGYO claimed that oil
shale deposits have been discovered in Kirin,
"Manchoukuo" which will be useful for motor-cars.
The Inaba Works at Fushun allegedly has been awarded
the contract for the processing of this oil-shale, in
order that it may be used in preference to charcoal in
motor-cars. The deposits allegedly contain at least
20 percent oil and are found close to tne surface.
Animal Fats and Vegetable Oil for Lutricants:
The NIKKAN KOGYO of October 25, 1942, states that
the Japan Oil and Fats Company is constantly engaged
in producing high grade lubricating oils from animal
fats and vegetable oils by a "synthetic and hydro-
gonating process." The company is now said to be
seeking permission to erect a plant to expand this
production and allegedly the concern is to be merged
with the Japan Marine Froducts Company, from which it
will secure shark and whale oil. Oil from copra and
coconut brought up from the South are expected to be
used also by the company.
Lubricating Oil from Copra:
SANGYO KEIZAI of November 10, 1942, allegedly
carried a report that the Miyoshi Chemical Development
Company has developed a simple method for producing
lubricating oils from copra and coconut oil. The
difriculty in using coconut oil in the past, according
to the erticle, is that it contains such a "large
peroentage of low grade fatty acid." However, the
Japanese concern reportedly has overcome this handicap
and has been awarded a patent for producing lubricating
oils by the new process "from high grade alcohol."
An official of the company expressed his belief that
"a good many refineries could be readily built in the
Southern areas, in conformity with Japan's policy of
productivity

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
productivity expansion."
The Development of Buthanol:
The first indication of "Buthanol" production was
contained in the JAPANESE TIMES AND ADVERTISER for
June 18, 1942, wherein a news item stated that the
Taiwan Sugar Manufacturing Company had succeeded in
its experiments for the manufacture of buthanol by
utilizing the waste juices of molasses. This expe-
riment, claimed to have been carried out for several
years, allegedly had as an object the production of
buthanol "as raw material for iso-octane, which is
indispensable for the manufacture of high grade syn-
thetio fuel for aircraft."
The ORIENTAL ECONOMIC WEEKLY of October 15, 1942,
(perhaps the ORIENTAL ECONOMIST) is reported to have
had an optimistic article based upon the fact that
the larg quantities of sugar in Southern areas were
now causing the Japanese euthorities greatly lessened
concern. The article pointed out that previously it
had been the Government's policy to turn large amounts
of sugar acreage into cotton or rice fields, because
of the over-production of sugar in the Japenese con-
trolled areas. However, measures for the use of sugar
in industrial enterprise were said to have enabled the
Government to revise its estimates. The article ap-
parently stated thet "the reduction of sugar plantations
in the Southern sphere will be limited to a portion of
the Philippines and the plan originally studied for a
decided curtailment in the sugar industry as a whole
no longer has any claim upon the situation." The an-
nounced industrial use for which over-suprly of sugar
was claimed by the article to be taken up in the li-
quid fuel industry, and "with Buthanol as the main
produot." Summing up its argument, the Japanese
publication states that "considered as food, sugar
stocks are overabundant, but when it is considered
as a compound of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, its
utility becomes diverse."
Incidentally, the use of sugar is stated to have
been followed by sugar manufacturers in Formosa in
the production of alcohol prior to the outbreak of
the present war. This industrial use of sugar is
assuming importance with the production of buthanol
to be used in making quantities of aircraft fuel and
also as a paint solvent. The Japanese article
claims:
"Japanese ingonuity has overthrown the
established theory that production of buthanol
from sugar is impossible. The discovery of the
new process is a manifestation of the high
standard

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.95)
-26 -
standard of Japunese scientiric technique.
This technical success o ro re is-
covery  iture or pee. bacteria,
the put hur el be eteria whoseot
suear is eecomp oseu nto thanol ea s i
amounts of ucetone  ydrogen as. ron.
this crude butnanol ni f-crade iso-octune
is manufactured. For this reason, the sugar
industry now becomes tne parent industry of
the aircraft fuel inaustry, wnich is indis-
pensable not only in wur ti e but in eace
tine .s well."
Plants for Manufacturing Butnanol:
The last information about the buthanol industry
was received by tiis office's informant in November
1942, when it was announcec thut tne Japan Breweries,
allegedly capitalized at 95,000,00o Yen,intended to
establish a new plant which, "with the one establisled
by the Taiwan Sugar Con any would form the nucleus of
Japan's buthanol industry."  new company would be
formed to ojerate this rew lant und alleredly would
be cupitalized at 35,000,00o Yen, witn the shares not
for public sale, but to be owred oy tre Daiichi
Mutual Insurance Co guny ane the Suzuki irovision
Company. Instead of builaing a new fuctory, tle re-
port cleimed that worr wovld e curried on in the
plant of the Kurashiki Silk Comuny or the island of
Shikoku. The alteration of the fctory for buthanol
production was "sclheduleu to be finished by December
1943 and the fuctory would start operation in 1944."
Sugar and corn fro the occupied territories would
be the raw materials utilized.
Oil Production from Rubber:
A report of an official of the Japanese Military
Administration in Malaya was rublicized in the press
upon his arrival in Japan on July 1, 1942 in which
this official allegedly stated that technicians in
the South "have discovered a Irocess for the iro-
duction of gasoline and neavy oil from rubber."

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
VIII. LAND TRANSPORTATION
Relation of Transport and Industry.
an interestin crtiole ppeared in Yormr I of an
unknown uate that emphasized the necesslty for lhcreas-
ine  available rirms  ns ort hon, no erely
that of shippine, for "rellin steex ne ruens were
as important in theenerll criew
ese economy as merenant ves els." ot only were  uto-
mobiles, airplanes and machine tools as important as
ships, but it was necessary for the truck and railway
systems to be vastly improved for the snooth transporta-
tion of raw materials fron pro nein istricts to ports
from whicn they could be shipe te  m. on  is sub-
ject the article mentions that "the  unese tonp ile
industry is far behind these retuirements, totwithstunuing
the fact that Japan must supply the Southern areas wi th
automobiles and rollin stock."
Government Railway Policy.
The Railway Minister, r. atta, when speaking before
a Council of the Imperial Rule assistence Association on
September 27, 1942, allegedly outlined the Government's
railroad policy since the start of the war and the measures
taken to intensify transportation capt city. In the course
of the speech he reportedly said tiat "official re ulations
were proclaimed in May in accordance with mich Central and
Provisional Cooperative Councils were organized, so tat
production and trunsportation schemes could pe adjusted to
one another." In addition to improvin and increasing the
existing rollin: stock, the inister claimed that the
State was conducting its efforts to cons truct railway lines
with relation to the location of important natural resources
and "the improvement of other railroad facilities." Ad-
ditionally, to adjust truck transport, ie Government was
considering a Motor-Car Traffic Enterprise Ordinance.
With reference to the Kanmon tunnel between Shimonoseki
and Moji the Minister stated that freight transportation
commenced on July 1, 1942 and thet passenger traffic was
expected to start before very long." The second stage in
the development of the tunnel, allegedly its double track-
ing, was expected to be completed in 1944-1945. At the be-
ginning of October newspapers announced that with the full
operation of the underground tunnel now a fact "the new
24-hour system was enforced simultaneously for railways
throughout the country."
Report Upon Railway Transportation.
A report by the Imperial Railway Association was said
to have been filed with the Railway Ministry on September
29, 1942, recommending that all railways in Japan and in
the countries Overseas Territories be pladed under that
Ministry's

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
-28-
 control. In brief the association outlined
all railway construction and transportation matters
orea, Formosa and Karafuto be placed under the control
the Railways Ministry in order that the greatest ef-
Teienoy might be secured; that railway transport in the
colonies might be accelerated; that this might increase
the productive power of the country and that the movement
of important materials miht 
Government Pransportation pri ri ies.
The Railway Pransporta i  Court, ue rim to a
report of October 2, 1942, decided to udd ter items to
those already granted transportation priority on the
Government railways, which would be effective from October
to December 1942 and would include such items as oils und
fats, raw meteriels for manufueturin vils ni fats, sake,
alcohol, light metuls, li e, idustriul chenicals, tobucco,
sand and ravel. Semi priority llegedly was iven to some
articles of daily consumption such as live stock, bean paste,
soya sauce, eggs, milk, condensed milk, copper and other
non-ferrous metais, agricultural chemicals, seedlings, drum
tins, packing materials and camphor oil.
A report of the commodities accorded transport priority
in Japan is given as follows:
Wheat and barley, sweet potatoes, sugar, ferti-
lizers, straw manufactures, saki, ores, machinery
and tools (including rollin: stock), paper and pulp,
lime, industrial chemicals, rice, vegetables, timber,
fodder, coal, oils and fates and raw meterials for
their manufacture, petroleum, alcohol, salt, soya
beans, fish and fish shells, charcoal, wheat flour,
coke, iron and steel, cement, light metals, tobacco,
sand and gravel.
Approved:
Roym Mellourve
Burton Y. Berry
Roy M. Melbourne
Ame rican Consul
Ame rican Vice Consul
To Department in original and hectograph.
in
880.02
RM:mc:mv
Hecto sent to Dom

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.91)
J818143
n. 4/
894.60/29
To the
Officer in charge of the American Mission,
Now Dolhi.
DCA?
Fild in DEAP
ne
The Searetary of State refers to reperts ne. 7, 8,
894.60/29
and 11, prepared by the American Comaulate General at
Istambal under dates of Marah 9, 31, and April 7, respes-
tively, on the subjeots of Japanese wartime imdustry,
wartime eeomemy, and administration and fimance in the
occupied territories. Copies of these reperts are
enclosed for the Nissiods files and it is requested that
they alse be made available to the appropriate representa-
tivs of the Beard of Bconomio Warfare at New Delhi.
894.60
Enolosures:
Cop1es of reports no. 7, 8, and 1l.
PS/JTS
R.
JON 
 17 1943
DCA:PTM:JH
6/15/43
NE
CAU
A( )

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.94)
DCA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
U-2
7E
RICANATIUNAC ERUNOMIC AFFAIRS
7,1943
EA
JUNS 6 943 2 7 1943APF1
CONFIDENTIAL
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Reference ug. made to despatch no. 7,
DM
Maroh 9, 1943, Trom the Consulate General
at Istambul, Turkey (file no. 894.60/29).
E5
Mr. Ramon Lavalle, who was formerly
PS
Special Attaché at the Argentine Embassy
in Tokyo, Japan, whence he departed on
7E
January 9 of this year, and who supplied
the information upon which Istambul's des-
ACR
patoh was based, has requested that the
attached items be added to Istambai's
report.
71
ASION
DEPART
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
u
ECONOMIC STUDIES
APR 8 1943
MAY 11 1943
DIVISION OF
NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
4/8/43
ple. /1
JUN 2 6 1943
CLPARIMEN
F1.4m
894.60/29
mwB
FE:BiahopiALM

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
To be added to Istambul's despatch no. 7, March 9, 1943,
Japanese Wartime Industry".
Evaluation of Assets of Persons Changing or Discon-
tinuing their Occupation.
On September 22, 1942 the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry announced its decision to prefectural governors
and other provincial authorities to establish a standard
evaluation for the protection of assets of persons
changing or discontinuing their occupations. This
standard was decided upon by a "committee of experts"
which had been appointed by the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
894.60/29
The Japanese newspaper icni Nicni announced the fol-
lowing rules as governing standerd evaluations:
(1) Raw materials, finished products and stocks of
merchandise to be valued on the basis of their current
worth (retail selling price). All goods bearing "official
price", "agreement price" or "pegged price" to be purchased
at the stated prices.
Local price councils to determine "reasonable selling
prices for all slightly damaged or loose articles".
(2) Real estate and buildings to be valued in accord-
ance with the basic regulution of the "People's .elfare
Bank" on the basis of their current value or in accordance
with "general standards used for all real estate and
buildings".
(3) The following articles or similar articles likely
to bring fair prices in the open market to be evaluated
at their "current worth": telephones, cash registers,
safes, bioycles, motor trucks and other vehicles, measuring
devices, refrigerators, wax figures for display purposes,
industrial sewing machines, bicycle repair tools, eyeglass
finishing instruments, other optical instruments, and radio
testing machines.
(4) Furniture and equipment used in the business in
question shall be evaluated in accordance with the average
volume of sales for the three previous years: this applies
to such furniture and equipment. as may not be removed
elsewhere, such as "show windows, chairs for customers,
etc.".
(5) The total sum acceptable to the "People's Welfare
Bank" shall conform with the total assessment made in con-
formity with the foregoing articles. Any retail merchant
NT OF STATE
deriving the larger part of his living expenses out of his
PS/MM
retail business shall be entitled to a minimum evaluation
300 yen in the event the total evaluation of his goods is
less than 300 yen. All retail merohants who have changed
or discontinued their occupations are to receive a sum
equal to the total valuation, made on the basis of their
ourrent worth, of "raw materials, stooks of merohandise,
land and buildings, furniture used in the business in
In addition they are to receive a "basic amount
soots". In this connection the Hiehi Michi published

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the following list giving the "basic amount of assessments"
for average retailers realizing annual proceeds ranging
from 1,000 to 20,J00 yen each:
Classification of
nual
sasie sun of
retaiiers
froceeds
assess.ent
Dry goods store
¥20,000
¥2,080
Foreign cloth tailor
7,000
1,156
Ladies' and children's
cloth tailor
20,000
2,273
Ready-made foreign
cloth dealer
20,000
2,720
Bed-cloth dealer
5,000
725
Foreig goods store
20,000
2,733
Household metal goods
dealer
5,000
683
Precious article, watch
and eyeglass dealer
3,000
560
Camera dealer
5,000
764
Radio, elec. machine
dealer
5,000
720
Bicycle dealer
3,000
435
Porcelain dealer
7,000
968
Glazier
5,000
720
Shoe dealer
5,000
775
Leather goods dealer
10,000
2,720
Toilet goods dealer
20,000
2,720
Drug and toilet goods
7,000
617
Paper and stationery dealer3,000
378
Book-seller
7,000
840
Toy seller
5,000
695
Furniture dealer
20,000
2,720
Clog and sandal seller
10,000
1,260
Kitohen ware and sundry
goods dealer
7,000
700
Candy shop
3,000
360
Dried fish dealer
10,000
960
Alcoholic drink dealer
10,000
960
Fish dealer
10,000
816
Meat dealer
10,000
960
Vegetable and fruit
dealer
10,000
766
Sundry goods retailer
5,000
490
Inoreased Dividends Declared by Industrial Bank of
Japan.
At a regular meeting of the stockholders of the
Industrial Bank of Japan held on August 15, 1942, 1t was
decided to increase the former dividend rate of from 6 to
7 percent. Aocording to newspaper reports, the Industrial
Bank of Japan decided in l927 to reduce its customary
dividend of 8 pereent by 2 peroent in order to liquidate
loans during the "financial panio" at that time. At the
meeting on August 15, 1942, the bank manager reportedly stated
that  was finally in a position to increase the dividend
theark
rate

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
rate. On September 2 the Japan Times published an article
reportedly taken from the Toyo Keizai Shimpo (Oriental
Eoonomic News) which traces the developments enabling the
bank to increase its dividends.
"around 1930-1 when the money narnet was visited
by depression, Toyotaro Yuki, the then Governor of the
Industrial Bank of Japan, wit. a view to relieving our
financial circles which had been placed in a tight
place, financed in a positive way various industrial
conoerns. On the return of prosperity through re-
imposition of the gold embargo, all these loans proved
advantageous debts, which contributed in a great
measure toward expansioi. f te bank's business.
"The condition of business f the bank since the
opening of the China Affair has, of course, been very
satisfactory. As one of the central banking agencies
in wartime, remarkable expansions nave been registered
in its loans account, term after term. While the total
of time loans, overdrafts and discounted bills amounted
to only 391,000,000 as at the end of the first term of
1937, it was octupled to ¥3,001,000,000 by the end of
the first term of 1942. The increase in discounted bills
was particularly noticeable showing an expansion of
thirteen times from ¥166,000,000 to ¥2,201,000,000 during
the same period. In the one year from the first half of
1941 to the first half of 1942 the loans registered a
further increase of ¥1,000,000,000, bringing the total up
to two and a half times the amount at the end of the
first half of 1937.
"Investment in Securities
"The proportion of investment in securities is
rather small against various loans. However, the amount
of securities held by the bank which was only ¥99,000,000
as at the end of the first half of 1937 increased to
¥714,000,000 by the end of the first half of 1942. The
holding of municipal bonds has become nil, and while
shares and foreign securities have shown a slight
increase, debentures and national debts have increased
by three and twenty times respectively. The increase
in debentures being held by the bank can be regarded as
natural and reasonable, but the increase in national
loan holdings may appear a little queer when we know
that on the funds raised by means of the industrial
debentures, which constitute the main portion of the
working funds of the bank, the bank pays an interest
of 4.2 per cent and, therefore, to hold publio loans
means backwardation. The bank's management explains
that these national loans represent rainy day funds
against mergenoies. By making use of the national
bonds, the bank olaims, they can adjust industrial
monetary circulation.
"This, however, is not the only reason for the big
amount of national loans held by the bank. It is the
usual praotice of the bank to appropriate temporary
surplus funds made available when the money market is
easy toward investment in public loans.
"Basis

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
"Basis for Working Fund
"In te first half of l941 the Industrial Bank
of Japan increased its capital stocn to ¥200, o0, Jo0.
The amount vaid up, nowever, is v87, 500, O00, nd even
if reserves of various deseri tis: are added, the bank's
own fund is no more than $127,J0o,oo0. It is cuite
negligible in comparison with the total amount o loans
advanced and securities neld by the bank, namely
¥3,700,000,000.
"These are issued either under the Industrial
Bank Law or the Special Financin: Remulation act.
Under the former, the maximun ount of issue is ten
times tne paid-up capital (¥875,000,000) and under the
latter ¥5,000,000.000. he larger portion of the indus-
trial debentures issued so far were of course, issued
by virtue of the Special Financing Regulation Act,
which provide Government guarantees for payment of
principal and interest. It is worthy of note that the
Industrial Bank of Japan is thus supported by national
confidence in point of the absorption of funds.
"Business Fast Expanding
"We have seen that the remarkable developnent in
the business of the bank is based on the support of
great national trust. Let us now see how the bank's
business has expanded.
"As regards business profits, while they stood
at ¥3,446,000 for the first half of 1937, an increase
of 2.3 times materialized, yielding ¥8,036,00 for the
first half of 1942. Of course, when the increase in
capital seen in the first term of 1939 is taken into
acoount, the increase in profits is not proportionately
large, and yet the rate of increase is 3.2 per cent over
the former 13.8 per cent to 17 per cent, which, to all
intents and purposes, may justify the present dividend
increase by i per cent, the more so because the fund
required for the increased dividend in question is no
more than ¥437,500, which is no big sum from the stand-
"However, it may be that the dividend increase
puts the bank in a position where it must lower the
oxisting rates of loan interest. The bank's management
assures that it is making strenuous efforts in this
regard.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.86)
Cajpy for
April 7, 1943
O LFIDEN TIL
heference is ade  der ate no. 7,
-aro. 193, fr te nsul onr
t taul.e(rle 29).
s. anon zavalle, whs was frlerly
-peoial tteche t the re tine baesy
in Tokys, Japan, whence he departed on
January 9 of this year, and whs s upplied
the information upon whion Istanbul's des-
patc.. was based, has reyuested lhat the
ttaohed itens be dded t  tunbul's
report.
894.60/2)
FE: B1 ahop: AL

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
be added to Istambul's despatch no. 7, Mareh 9, 1943,
Japanese Wartime Industry".
Rvaluation of Assets of Persons Changing or Disoon-
sinuing their Occupation.
On Septamber 22, 1942 the  1 1stry of Som eree and
Industry announced its deoision to prefeotural governora
and other proviucial uuthorities to establish a stancrd
evaluation for the protection of assets of pereons
changing or discontinuing their occupations. This
standard was decided upon by e "committeo of experts"
whien had been appointed by the Ministry of Commeroe and
Industry.
The Japanese newspaper Hicli Nioh1 ennounced the fol-
lowing rules as governing standard evaluations:
(1) Raw materials, finished products and stocks of
meronandise to be valued on the basis of their current
worth (retail selling price). All goods bearing "orricial
price", "agreement price" or "pegged price" to be purohased
at the stated prices.
Local price councils to deter ine "reasonable selling
prioes for all alightly danaged or loose artioles".
(2) Roal estato and buildings to be valued in acoord-
ance with the baaie regul tion of the "leople's elfare
Bank" on the basis of their current value or in accordance
with "general standardo used for ll real estate end
buildings".
(3) The following urticies or aiailar articles likely
to bring fair prices in the open merket to be evalueted
at their "ourrent worth": telephones, cast registers,
safes, bieyoles, motor trucks snd ther venioles, measuring
deviees, sefrigerators, wax figures for display purposes,
industrial sewing maohines, bicyole repair tools, oyeglass
finiening instruments, other opticel instrumonts, and radio
testing machines.
(4) Furnisure and equipment used in the business in
question shall be evaluated in accordance wi th the average
volume of sales for the three previous years: this applies
to sueh furniture and equipment as may not be removed
elsewhere, suoh as "show windows, ohairs for oustomers,
●to.".
(5) The total sum aseeptable to the "People's Welfare
Beak" mhall ceaferm with the total aasessment made in con-
fermity with the foregeins artieles. Aay retail merehent
desiving the larger part or his living expenses out of his
retail basimess skall be eatitled to a minimum evaluatien
j00 yen ia the event the tetel evaluation of his soods is

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
the following list giving the "basie amount of assessments"
fer average retailers realizing annual proceeds ranging
from 1,000 to 20,000 yen each:
Classificatior
anual
3sic sn of
retailere
roceeds
Basess nent
Dry goods atore
¥20,000
￥2.080
Foreign cloth tailor
7,000
1,156
Ladies' and children's
oloth tailor
20,000
2,273
Ready-made foreign
cloth dealer
20,000
2,720
Bod-oloth dealer
5,000
725
Foreig goods store
20,000
2,733
Housohold metal soods
dealer
5,000
683
Precious article, watch
and eyeglass dealer
3,000
560
Camera dealer
5,000
764
Radio, alec. mechine
dealer
5,000
720
Bioycle dealer
3,000
435
Poroelain dealer
7,000
968
Glazier
5,000
720
Shoe dealer
5,000
775
Leather goode dealer
10,000
2,720
Tollet goods dealer
20,000
2,720
Drug and toilet goods
7,000
617
Paper and stationery dealer3,000
378
Book-seller
7,000
840
Toy seller
5,000
695
Furniture dealer
20:000
2,720
Clog and sandal seller
10,000
1,260
Kitehen ware and sundry
goods dealer
7,000
700
Candy shop
3,000
360
Dried fish dealer
10,000
960
Alooholic drink dealer
10:000
960
Fish dealer
10,000
816
Meat dealer
10,000
960
Vegetable and fruit
dealer
10,000
766
Sundry goods retailer
5,000
490
Inareaced Dividende Deelared by Industrial Bank of
Lans.
At a regular meeting of the stoekholders of the
Indastrial Baak of Japan held on August 15, 1942, 1t was
desiéed to inerease the former dividend rate of from 6 to
7 persent. Assording to newapaper reports, the Induatrial
Lomns during the "finanelal panie" at that time. At the
ng ea Anguat 15, 1942, the bank manager repertodly atated
rase

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
zate. Oa September 2 the Japan Times published an artiale
repertedly taken from the Aoye Lalzal Shimpo (Oriental
Beonomie News) which traces the developments onabling the
bank to inerease its dividends.
"Around 1930-1 when the money market was v1s1ted
by depression, Toyotaro Yuki, the then Governor of the
Industrial Bank of Japan, with a view to relieving our
finanoial ciroles which had been plaoed in a tight
plaee, finanoed in a positive way various industrial
coneerns. On the return of prosperity througn re-
imposition of the gold embargo, all these loans proved
advantageous debts, whion oontributed in a reat
meamure toward expansion of te bank's business.
"The condition of business of the bank since the
opening of the China Affair has, or course, been very
satisfactory. As one of the central banking agencies
in wartime, remarkable expansions have been registered
in its loans account, term after term. While the total
of time leans, overdrarts und disoounted bills amounted
to only 39l, 000,000 as at the end of the first term of
1937, 1t was ootupled to ¥3,001,000,000 by the end of
the firat term of 1942. The inorease in discounted bills
was partioularly noticeable showing an expansion of
th1rteen times from 166,000,000 to ¥2,201,000,000 during
the same period. In the one year from the first half of
1941 to the first half of 1942 the loans registered a
further 1nerease of 1,000,000,000, bringing the total up
to two and a half times the amount at the and of the
first half of 1937.
"Investnent in Seourities
"The proportion of investment in securities is
rasher mall against various loans. However, the mount
of seeurisies held by the bank whion was only 99,000,000
as at the end of the first halr of l937 inereased to
714,000,000 by the end of the first half of 1942. The
helding of munioipal bonds has beeome nil, and while
shares and foreign seeurities have shown a slight
inerease, debentures and national debts have insreased
by three and twenty times reapeotively. The inerease
in debentures being held by the bank can be regarded as
matural and reasonable, but the inerease in national
Lean heldings may appear a little queer when we know
that on the funds raised by means of the industrial
debentures, whieh sonstitute the main portion of the
working funds of the bank, the bank pays an interest
of 4.2 per eent and, therofore, to hold publio loans
means beekwardatien. The bank's management explains
that these national loans represent rainy day funds
agminst emergeneies. Ey making use of the national
beads, the bank alaims, they san ad just industrial
monetary eireulasiss.
usual prastice of the bank to appropriate temperary

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
"Basis for Working Fund
"In the first half of 1941 the Industrial Bank
of Japan inoreased 1ts capital stool to ¥200,000,000.
The amount paid ur, nowever, 1s we7,500,000, nd oven
if reserves or various description are added, tne bank's
own fund 1s no more than 127.000.000. It 1s uite
negligible in comparison with the total anount loans
advanoed and securities held by the bank, nanely
3,700,000,000.
"These ere issued either under the Industrial
Bank Law or the Special Financing Regulation ot.
Under the former, tee maximum amount of issue is ten
timos the paid-up capital (¥875,000,000) and under the
latter 5,000,000,000. The larger port1on of the 1ndus-
trial debentures isaued so far were of course, issued
by virtue of the Speoial Finanoing Regulation Aot,
whieh provide Government guarantees for payment of
prinoipal and interost. It is worthy of note that the
Industrial Bank or Japen is thus supported by national
confidence in point of the absorption of funds.
"Business Faat Expanding
"We have seen that the remarhable development in
the business of the bank is based on the support of
groat national trust. Let us now see how the bank's
business has expanded.
"As regards business prorits, while they stood
at 3,446,000 for the first half of 1937, an inorease
of 2.3 times material1zed, yielding 8,036, 00 for the
first half of l942. of course, when the inorease in
eapital seen in the first tera of l939 is taken into
ascount, the inorease in prorits is not proportionately
large, and yet the rate of inorease is 3.2 per cent over
the former 13.8 per cent to 17 per oent, whion, to all
intents and purposes, may juetify the present dividend
Inerease by 1 per cent, the more so because the fund
regaired for the inoreased dividend in question is no
more than 437,500, whion 1s no big sum from the stand-
point of the bank's business.
"However, it may be that the dividend inorease
puss the bank in a position where it must lower the
existing rates of loan interest. The bank's management
assures that it is making strenuous efforts in this
regasd."

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
WAR DEPARTMENT
ence Service
Di ision of
MAY 241943
MAY3 8 1943
FAR ESTENN AFFAIRS
May 18, 1943.
リIVISION
Depa tmenthof State
TRANSLATIONS OF IMPORTANT SECTIONS OF "ZENKOK KOJO TSURAN"
1. Inquiry has been made whether any agency has undertaken the
translation of the 1939 edition of Zenkoku Kojo Tsuran (Nation-Wide
Factory Guide of Japan), a compilation by the Japanese Department of
Commerce and Industry published by the Nikkan Kojo Shimbun (Industrial
Daily), Tokyo.
2. Zenkoku Kojo Tsuran is an official directory of factories
employing five or more persons. Firms are classified by industry,
and are further grouped by location. The name, address, date of
founding, and the chief product of each factory are given. This
894.60/30
directory is of value primarily to those seeking to determine the
location, by areas, of factories of a certain type, regardless of
size or importance. The lack of an alphabetic arrangement of names,
and the absence of details upon which to base evaluations of indivi-
894.60
dual factories are definite handicaps in the use of this book.
3. Attention is drawn to the fact that, in the 1939 edition of
Zenkoku Kojo Tsuran, there is no section listing firms devoted to the
manufacture of aircraft and parts. It has beenreported that there
was such a section in the 1933 edition of the same publication. This
wo uld seem to indicate that some important information has been
omitted from the 1939 edition.
4. The Far Eastern Unit, M.I.S., obtained a photographic repro-
duction of an original volume of the l939 edition in the possession
of the New York Branch Office, M.I.S., and from time to'time since
December 1942 has been translating the following sections, comprisin
327 of the tota1 1911 pages:
Machinery and Tools.
U - LIAISON OPTIC
(1) Machine Tools, 20 pages.
8
(2) Shipbuilding, 12 pages.
MAY 2 0 194
MAY41943
(3) Boilers, 5 pages.
DEPARTHE
(4) Gears, Bearings, etc:, 7 pagee.
(5) Engineering and Construction Machinery 3
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
(6) Optical Instruments, 2 pages.
(7) Mining, Ore Dressing, and Refining Machinery,
3 pages.
(8) Agricultural Tools and Machines, 9 pages.
(9) Textile Machinery, 46 pages.
b.
Propellants (Explosives), 2 pages.
Government and Public Enterprises, 5 pages.
Metallic Industry, 197 pages.
Engines·(Steam Engines and Turbines, Internal
Combustion Engines, and Water-Wheels), 16 pages.
With the: exception of five pages on Engines all the foregoing sections
have boon translated. The section on Machine Tools is befng typed
on mimeograph steneils, and wi ll be ready for distribution about May
25 1943. The other sections listed above will be mimeographed and
distributed as soon as practicable. Sections which have been or are
being translated in this office will be listed on each copy distri-
buted in order to avoid possible duplication of work by other agencies.
5 It is proposed to include the following agencies in the
distribution of the seotions of'Zenkoku Kojo Tsuran translated in
this office:
War Office, London.
Office·of Naval Intelligence.
New York Branch Offide, M.I.9
San Francioco Branch Office, M.I.S.
·Operational Intelligence, A-2.
Gi2, Soullmést Pacific Area.
Department.
ay Forces in China, Burma, and India.
pry Observeń, New Delhi.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
J. M/A, Wellington.
M/A, Melbourne.
M/A, Chungking.
m.
M/A, London.
n.
Board of Economic Warfare.
o.
Ministry of Economic Warfare, London.
p.
Office of Strategic Services.
q.
Department of Commerce.
r.
Department of State.
s. Economic Warfare Unit, Department of Justice.
t. U. S. Tariff Commission.
6. Shortage of personnel and the pressure of more urgent work
prevents this office from continuing the translation of Zenkoku Kojo
Tsuran on any other than a low priority basis. In view of the great
Importance ascribed by certain intelligence personnel to this publi-
cation, it is suggested that some agency such as the Board of
Economic Warfare may desire to take over the work initiated in this
office and continue it as a high priority project.
N. W. PETTIGREW,
Colonel, G. S. C.,
Chief, Far Eastern Unit.
Distribution:
As listed in paragraph 5.
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.93)
1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 15, 1943
DCR
leage Angex the underlyin
report refardint Japanese
industridis duted Septapber
1943 and hatifyFw Johanseh
nunber.
FE: Johanben: ALM

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
COPY
STATE
DIVISION OF
LUROPEAN AFFAIRS
SEP111943
F·ENGL
RECETVED
Economic Warfare Did
London, England
September, 7, 1943
Confidential
ASTIN AARS
Mr. N. H. Gates,
Chief, Eeonomie Intelligenoe Division,
Offiee of Economio Warfare,
Washington, D.C.,
894.60/31
Dear Gates,
I am enclosing copies of translations from the Asahi Shimbun
on four of the five great primary industries of Japan; iron and
steel, eeal, light metals, and shipbuilding. The artiole on the
fifth industry, aireraft, has been sent you previously.
These have all been obtained from the Ministry of Beonomic
Warfare, who, in turn, have received them from their Ministry of
Information in Now Delhi.
Sincerely yours,
John M. Allison
PS/LC
94.60
LIAISON OFFICE
C612-1943
CSPARTIENT OF STATÉ

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
Japanese Translation Series Mo. 45
Translation from Asahi Shimbun
(Wostern Bdition published at Kokura)
of 1.3.43
"The Five Great Primery Industries
2. Shipbuilding
Shipbuilding calls for iron and steel, and to make iron and steel
calls for iron ore and coal. This iron ore and coal must be transported
by ships. Aireraft, light metals, ships, 1ron and steel, and coal, all of
them priority industries, are all inter-related, and it is impossible to
detach one from the rest.
The fruit of a colleotive industry.
If shipe are the fruit of a colleotive industry, the mterials to
make them mst largely be obtained from other industries. In short, the
shipbuilding imdustry, in addition to its own peouliarities, ineludes, as
subsidiary industries, almost every modern industry. Aocordingly, their
preduets play a very important part in shipbuilding capacity and in
partieuler sueh things as the supply of steel play a decisive role.
The prineipal materials of a ship are iron and steel, non-ferrous
metals, timber, textiles, paint, cement, asbestos, pottery products, etc.,
and if you count them you will find that they are conneoted with nearly
every indastry. If we now study these in conneetion with the priee of a
ship, we find that for an 8.500 ton cargo vessel, the price of the materials
is 79.87, or say 80%. of these mmaterial costs just under 46% are taken up
by seft stoel.
So it can be said that the other priority industries also play their
part, and without their co-operation it is diffioult to seeure a sharp inerease
in ship preduetien. Frem this can be understoed the meaning of the establiskmmt
of the Iaereesed Produetion Promotion Cooperative Assosiation "whose purpese is
te realise the imereased preduetion ef the priority industries by ensuring an
orgamie ce-eperative strusture centred on the mest impertant industries" as the
eestral plam ef the Esssential Industries Coeperative Asseciatien. In short,
it is diffieult te expeet porfestion in inereased preduetion of shipe by the
ummided offerts of the shipbuilding imdustry aleme. The Shiphuilding Control
Cempamy is the central orgam direeting the centrel cempamies of the imdustrial
werld, and a eemsultative asscciatiem has been formed ineluding the releted
industrial eemtrel cempasies. It assists in the supply ef mterials under a
prieriy system. Afriliated to the centrel shipbuilding Contrel Cempamy are
é regiemal shiphuilding eemsultative assesiatiene mde up of the medium and
amall seale mmmnfaeturere. The head of the cempany is the reeegaised
antherity Keskire Shibe (fermerly heed ef Miteabishi Heavy Industries) and
the mmmaging direeter ie Viee Adairal (meserve) shigoharu Dummhare, who
dirests the imtustrialists.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
Warm Assistanse of the Serviees
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries is the unquestioned leader of the
Japanese shipbuilding industry. It hes the largest equipment for construoting
warships and merehant vessels, and it is one of the leading companies in the
world. Its teohnieal standard is high. In 1937 the total new Japanese
gross tonnege launehed was 456,000 tons, whioh was 2nd in the world to
Great Britain's 920,000 tons, and far ahead of America's 239,000 tons.
(Figures frem Maritime Year Book). Thus Japan is in the first rank in
the werld for shipbuilding capacity, and also ocoupies a leading place
teehmtcally. On that world stage, the Pacifie run, there were mere than
thirty of our first line 8,000 to 10,000 ton olass diesel engine oargo
ships, with an average speed of over 18 knots. This splendid fleet
completely surpassed those of the leading sea-transport countries of Europe
and Ameriea, and it is olear that it even became the object of envy of the
great powers. Our shipbuilding industry, because of its primary military
impertanee, advansed under the warm eneouragement of the navy and was
preteeted as if it were on a par with government enterprises. Considering
the spesial eharaeter of swoh a shipbuilding industry, what sort of bargain
has it made for itself in the present oiroumstances? On Pebruary Sth, 1942,
the Gevernment promulgated the Imperial Ordinance "relating to the special
waetime ease of jurisdietion with regard to the business of shipbuilding".
Thie
(1) limited authority to regulate the supply and
demand of important aterials used for ships
(11) transferred to the jurisdietion of Minister
for the Mavy, for the duration of the war
only, jurisdiotion (hitherto in the hands of
the Mimister of Comunieations) over construetion
and repair of merehant vessels in Naval yards.
This, besides ensuring elastieity as between mterials fer warship
cemstrestiem and mmterials fer merekant shipping construetien, mde a single
system fer the direstioms arising out of the 2 plens of warship cemstruetion and
merehant shipping construetion, and from e gemeral peint of view centrived a
wide eensideration of the regulation of beth. This puts the construetion of
warships and merehant vessels fumdamentally en the same feeting. Again, it
is ebvieus that mval and merehant shipping eenstruetiom in wartime is met
confined to the eapacity of yards under military cantrel, and that sonstruction
plans extend to eivil yards. It is desirable that the question of what
pereentege of mmval craft and what pereentage of merehant craft shall be cen-
strueted shall be suitably and effieiemtly gevermed by the cemplete unifieation
of direetiems for beth accerding te mterials, building facilities, and the
requirements of the minute.
Umifieatiom of blue prints for shipbuilding.
If the supply of mterials is regulated, then the preblem arises of
the waifieatiom of shipbuilding blue prints as a peliey fer imereased preductiem.
In ether werds, the standard wartime pattern ship mst be deeided upen. This
Ls mething mow. In the Greet War a standard pattern ship was decided en,

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
3,000 tem vessel which it had hitherto taken at least 7 or 8 months
build was in l9l6 being built in 2 months approximately. Nowadays in
pam we have a wmrtime pattern ship and it is being mass-produced. Again
interdepemdent with the creation of a wartime pattern ship, construction is alse
going on under & system of one set type per yard; e.g. type ships are built
at X yard, while B type ships are built at Y yard, and produotive capacity is
inereased because the same yard goes on repeating exactly the same pattern.
Under this type of specification of shipyards and unification of designs,
ordering of ships by a single source is inescapable, and the mchinery thet
plays the part of this single ordering authority is the Industrial Bquipment
Mamagememt corporatien. In other words, this Corporation simply takes over
eempletely the mamufaeture of wartime standard pattern ships, on the basis of
the gevermment's shipping construotion plans, and gives contracts to all
the shipping yards. The question is, is there or is there not a purohaser
for the finished ships? At any rate, as long as the country needs them the
necessary number of ships will be assured. Again when the Corporation shall
have eeeasion to sell them to oivilians, it has been deoided that "the
gevermment shall pay cempensation for losses ineurred by the Corporation" and
*the stamdard priee for construeting ships and for transferring them shall be
decided by the government".
The gevermment thus on the ono hand makes a part of the cost of
building new ships a mationml burden and on the other, by supplying floating
capital for shipbuilding and by revising the ordinanse coneerning compensation
of legses, has raised the limit or the fleating capital it will supply - tr.
from 3 to  of the capital value of any one shipyard - tr.7.
By lowering the sphero of application of these provisions from the
4,000 ton slass, it has extended them to all ships classified as small wartime
standard pattern ships. It has also mmde compensation for loss of capital by
the monetary organ consistent.
The foregoing praetiees, besides being financial poliey have mmde the
Industrial Equipmest Management Cerperation responsible for the positive expan-
siem of shipbuilding and mmehime-making equipment. The seouring of the two
extremes of the seheme, mmely simplifieation of patterns and unitary
comstreetien ome yard, eme type will herearter play the largest single part
in the sharp Inereese of shipbullding eapaeity.
Translated by Mr. H. C. Haimworth

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.94)
TRANSLATION FROM "ASAHI SHIMBUN"
(Wostern Editien published at KOwRA)
of 2.3.43
Japaness Translation Series No. 44
"THE FIVE GREAT PRIMARY INDUSTRIES"
3. Light Motalo
In the present war it is imperative to send every extre plane possible
to the front lim, by a prodigious inorease in the production of aluminium and
magmesium the indispensible primary raw materials of the airoraft industry.
In partioular, in l94s-44, the most important year, the year that will decide
the outeeme of the Greater East Asia War, we must totally sweep away the count-
less difrieulties in the way of inereasing produstion of these metals. What,
then, is the strusture and seale of the Japamese light metal industry which
oeeupies oe of the eentral positions of our wartime industry? The raw materials
frem whieh aluminium is obtained as is well known, are aluminous shale of which
there ave large quantities in Manohu and North Chime, and alunite in Korea, both
matiomal reseurees, ete., and bauxite from the Duteh Indies, Malaya, and other
territeries im the Seuth seas. As the aluminium content of the matiomal
resourees is lew and as impurities are plentiful compared with bauxite they are
inferier beth teehnieally and commeroially. Therefore the so-called five
greet priority eempamies of this industry, i.e. Showm Electric Industries,
Sumitemo Aluminium, Mippon Alumimium, Nippon Light Metals, and Nippon Soda,
areeall mmking aluminium from bauxite as their rew material. However, as
the impert of vital bauxite wmas completely stepped at the time of the freesing
of assets by England and Holland before the outbreak of the present war, it
became unaveidable to turm to matiemal rescurees, and there was a heroic
strengtheming of determimmtion. As a result of the Greater East Asia war
the werld's highest quality beuxite, that ef the East Indies and Malaye, was
seeured. It wes just as if the alumimium imdustry, met at first blessed with
beuxite, had feund an casis in the desert. Although there is net the slightest
doubt about the preseeutios of the Greater Bast Asia war, as far as bauxite is
censermed, we ean say it has been put en an invincible foundation. Japamese
alumimius-mamfacturing cempamies (exsluding Manekuria) are at present a
certain mamber, and the Imporial Light Metals Cemtrel Cempazy used to be solely
in cemtrel of distributien fer them. But as the impertamee of alumimium
grew with the pregress of the Greater East Asis war, it beeame meeessary fer
them to have a higher degree of cemntrel than that based en the prineiple of
the leaderakip by the ehief men of the industry. Cemsequently, en Septomber
lst los2 the Light Matals Centrel Cempany was set up, ia accerdanee with the
Essential Indastries Mamagement Ordimanes. Representatives ef all the prierity
Gempamies, Samiteme Aluminiam, Shesm Electrical Imdustries, Nippun Alumimium,
Mppom Light Matals, ete., comstitute the effieials ef this centrel company,
while the Imperial Light Metals Contrel Company makes up fer the weakmess that
the centrel Company eaanet carry cut ccenemie transactiens; alse, in crder to
aekieve erganie unity with the centrel eompaxy, its President Mr. Ataushi Oye,

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
 three of the direeters alse retain their pesitions. This persenne)
strueture eontsives a perfect and single control in the spheres both of
mmfasture and distribution.
Control of the aluminium industry is thus in the hands of the Control
Company set up in accordance with the ordinance we have quoted. But supervision
of the partieularly important work has been in the hands of the Department of
Cemmeree and Industry itself, since June 1942, in accordence with the Factories
Supervision Ordinanee. This makes the Minister of Commeroe absolute supervisor
of the alumimium industry. Superintendents are sent to the factories and works
comeermed. They examine in detail the way in whioh labour, material, motive
pewer ete., are mamaged, and co-operate with the head of the factory in making
the mmmagement rum smeethly. If they discover diffioulties or accidents, they
immediately consult with the Control Cempany and the Department of Commeroe and
contrive a suitable poliey for dealing with them.
Amoriee has set her airoraft construotion plans this year at 10,000
plames per menth, and has enormously expanded her aluminium industry. What
sert of plans has Japam made to inorease her produetion to accord with the
deeisive battles of this year?
As we have stated abeve, there are rich resouroes of bauxite in the
Seutherm regiems, but at present, for reasons of ecenemy of shipping, it is
esseatial te imerease predustion of aluminium, if only to the extent of one
tem, by mmking use of even techmieally and commereially unprefitable raw
mterials.
For some time the Japan-Manohurian Aluminium Company, Korea Riken Metals,
Mitehitsu (Mippen Mitrogen), ete., have been making aluminium from aluminous
shele, but the reeemt mamufacture of aluminium by Asata (?Asada) Chemieals
frem alunite from the foet of the Tienehieng mountains is attracting attention
as a fresh appearanse of mational resourees on the soene.
The seeond thing is the maximam use of existing equipment. As the
extemsiem of equipment and the installatien of mew equipment requires time
and maberials, it dees met aecord with the present stage ef a decisive war.
Se the mest predeetive use of existing equipmeat is the first consideration,
and mhes sapplemeatary er repair mterials are required, idle mterials mest
be ebtaimed quiekly frem the Industrial Equipment Mamagement Corporatien.
Farther, the resteratiem ef the belamse between aluminium mamufacturing
eapecity and the eapacity of alumimium eleetrelysis equipmsat is urgent.
Polieies fer dealing with these points are being perfeeted.
The third thing is the exehange of teehai eal infermati on. A high dogree
ef parity is ealled fer in alumimium facteries and imprevement in the quality
of preducts, whick depends em exehange of teehsieal infermation, is impertant.
Teekmieal ressarek is being earefally earried eut by the Techaieal Coeperative
Committee of the Cemtrel Compamy, compesed of the first-lime teakmicians of
the imdustry. The men-smelting methed of treating bauxite used by Shomm
Eleetrieal Imastries im their Yekeham fastery is reeegnised as the best,
and ite use by all companies is being adveeated. Nippem Sode is already
using ese part of this presess, and Mippem Aluminium is paaking en ite
prepasatiome to use it in the moar ature. It is considered that there
weuld be a remmrkable imerease ia predmctien of alumdaium if the ether
festerles using the pyre (?pyar) mthed would eanvert, and se it is greetly
hoped they will.
/rmlly

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
-8
Pimally, a metewerthy tendeney of the alwmimium industry is the plans of
all the eempamies for advamee into Kores. As the alumimium industry requires
a very great quantity of electrieity, it is metural that future expansion should
take plaee in Koree and Manchuria. Showe Electrical Industries and Sumitomo
Aluminium having come to an understanding with the authorities concerned, plans
for advanee into Koree have been drawn up, and they are going ahead with their
preparations. This, with Nippon Aluminium's plans for advance in Formosa, is
the seeond stage of productive expansion in a far-sighted national polioy, and
may be maid to accord with the urgent requirements of the times. In fact it is
an indispemsable feature for the mmintenance of a Greater East Asia national
defenee strueture.
Next comes magnesium. It's importance is small compared with that of
alumimium, but es magnesium alloys have a high resistance to shook it is an
abselutely essential material for miroreft landing wheels, as well ss for
incendiary bombs and flare bombs (or shells), and so an inerease in its
produetiom with the progress of the war has been oalled for.
The present Japamese mgnesium-predueing eompanies are Nippon Magnesium,
Mppem Magmesium Metals, Toyo Metals, Okura Mimeral Industries, Asahi Elestrifi-
catiem, Emamto Eleetrifieation, Tee Light Metals, Mitsubishi Magnesium Shinetsu
Chemieals, and Rikem Metal Industries, 10 cempanies, whieh use as their raw
mterial either brime, which is a by-preduet of selt mnufaeture, er mgnesite
ore ef whieh there are large quantities in Koree and Manehu. As the seale of
operatiems is emparatively small and as every country in the world keeps its
presesses seeret, it is about 10 years behind the aluminium industry. Production
cests ere high. For these reasons the contrel eempamy reeently applied a level
peel priee as a poliey for inoreasing produotion and at the same time revised
the buying and selling prices to e suitable figure. It has also been decided
to inerease the seale of operations suitably, in order to seeure bigger pro-
duetiem, and as a first step, it has been decided to amlgamate the mgmesium
brameh of Okure Light Metals with Tom Light Metals to form the Imperial (Teikoku)
Magmesiwm Cempany. Preparations for the formation of the new company are
at preeemt going en. It is comsidered that the planned organisation of the
magmesium industry will take plaee in the future.
Dhe method of mamufaeture to be used by this new eompany is to make
mgmesiwm kydrexide by mixing limesteme with see wmater, and to extrast mgnesium
frem this. This is Japan's primry mthed, for theugh mgnesite ore be (sie)
abumdant in Keree and Manehuria, present traaspert shortages eanmot be got
round, and it is therefore a eempletely prefitable poliey for inereased preduetion
to make use of readily acsessible sea water as a raw material. And so the centrol
sompaxy is at present advecating the use ef this methed by the magmesium eempesies
in Japam Preper, and probably it should be wateked from the point of view ef
equipping a wartime straeture in the magmesium industry.
Tr. by H. C. Heinworth
26/6/43

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
Japanese Translatiom Series No.46
Forn Bareeu:
July 18th, 1943
sh Ministry of Information,
.Bew We. 11o, Now Delhi
Translation from "Asahi Shimbun"
(Western Edition published at Kokure)
of 3.3.43.
"The Five Great Primery Industries"
Translated by H.C. Hainworth
4. Coal
Coal is extremely importast because it is the fuel and souroe of
metive pewer of every kind of industry and method of communication, and
therefere their indispensable feundatien, and also the raw material of the
symthetie ehemieal industry. Therefore, demand for it and for inereased
predmetien ef it as a military commedity for inereasing war petential, comes,
in the first plaee, frem the heavy imdustries, next from the syathetio
shemieal industry, and thereafter from the railways, electrieity, gas and
eeke werks. Imereased cosl preduetien and smoothness of distribution are
therefere meeded in present eireumstanees, and the supply of coal has
imereased emermously sinee the outbreek of the Chine Ineident. In response
te wartime demand there has been a great inerease from the 1936 production of
47,900,000 tens (Japan Proper 41,800,000 tons; Sakhalion 2,080,000 tons;
Keree 2,280,000 tons; Formosa 1,740,000 tons), while Manohuria and North China
have reeemtly inereased their output by leaps and bounds.
Coalfields are riehly soattered throughout the C.P.S. In Japan
Proper, the prineipal ones are in Kyushu. The Chikuho, Miike, and Karatsu
fields all preduee goed quality eoal, primcipally bituminous ooal, and with
the Ube cealfield, acceunt for an undiselesed percentage of Japan's total
preduetien. Wext eeme the Mekkmide eeelfields, that have a goed future, and
where alse the quality of the eeal is goed; the biggest of these is the
Ishikmri cealfield. In the Jeban eealfield in the Taira distriet of
Palmshime Prefeeture, lignite predeminates, and the output is smll, but as
it is elese to the arees ef comsumptiem, the field is regarded as impertant
frem the standpeint of tremspert.
Mext comes Mamekmria. In 198s the output was 12,000,000 tons, but
of course there has been a tremendeus advanse in recent years cempered with
this figure. The priasipel mimes are:
belenging to the 8. Mamehurian milway, at
Paskan
Yemtai
mfangtion
Wenhe
Laetonkow ete.
belenging to the Mamehuria Coalmining Co., at
/belenging
mahan etc

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
belemging te ether Companies, at
Penhsihu
Tungpintao etc.
Horth Chine is noteworthy, as a source of supply of coal for Japan,
as being the biggest souree in the world, and in addition, one of high-class
ceal. The prineipal mimes are these recently released from military control,
at
Chunshing
Tsuhsion
raiwenkow
Yangehman
Taingsing
Tatung
Kailuan, eto.
In ether regiens, we ean mentien Bmiman in Central Chine, and in
P.I.C. the high quality eeal of Mengay and the aathracite of Ke Bao, ete.
At present, with a desisive mer going on, and because of questions of
eee traaspert, it has been decided to lay prinsipal emphasis en Xyushu coal,
Yamagueki eeal and Jebam eoal, and to devote energy to Hokkaido coal as a
rew mterial (fer shemieel industries - tr.) and for use in gas-preduoing
armees.
The big ecal-mining eompanies in Japan Proper, are, in the prineipal
Yamguehi miming distriet of Kyushu, after the greet firms of Mitsui and Mitsubishi
mishim (? Dmijim) Coal Mining,
mifi Mining,
Sumiteme Mining.
Eittetou Mining,
Nissan Chemieal Industries,
Purakma Mining.
Ube Kwsan,
Aso Mining,
Tohe Ceal Mining,
Témiha (?) Coal Mining,
Kimeshima Ceal Mining,
Taishe Mining,
Dake Mining, ete,
in Bakaide and Jeban, arter the three great eempanies of Mitaui, Mitsubishi
and the Hokkaide Ceal Mining Company come
Cuake Ceal Mining,
Taiseiy6 Ceal Mmning.
Tmmshire Ceal Mining,
Iriyam Geal Mixing,
Shomm Bleetrieal Industries,
pai Mippem Ceal Miming, ete.
The pregeing 22 eempemies, as preducere cach of mere than a certain
/reamage

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.94)
-8
of eeal yearly, are all individual members of the Coal Contrel
. In additian there are the medium and amall ceale coneerms, and
are divided inte 7 sentrel assesiations spread over the whele sountry.
by are mest mmeress in Eyushm.
Hemever, as regards the results of large and small companies alike,
their eosts of produstion rose enormously with the increase in wages, cost of
mterials, and costs of management, for the most part reaching a peak in the
secend half of l9ss, sinee when there has been a tendenoy for them to fall.
In l942 there were even some showing a loss, while some were making money.
In general, a comparison of ton-output per hour shows a slight decline.
Im erder to earry out the low price policy smoothly, the price of
ceal bas been kept at that to which it was lowered in l9ss, and in order to
deal with the deterioration in production we have noted above, the government
has adepted an emergenoy poliey of subsidising the price at which transactions
are carried out.
That is to say, the Mippen Coal Company, which exolusively buys and
sells eoal, when it buys frem a mining eeneern, buys at a priee in which
predustiem eests eesssary for inereased production and a fair rate of interest
are subsidised, for all mines; when it sells the coal it has beught, it fixes
a reasenable and fair priee, suited to the quality of the seal, by making an
everall peel-priee ealoulation ineluding the priee at whieh it bought and
tramspert eosts. It avoids passing on inereases in the priee at which it
parehasss to its sustemers, and the losses whieh it suffers by se doing are
made good from the government's sale price subsidy fund.
fhis sale priee subsidy fund, allowing a profit in the mature of 2 yen
per tem, disbursed in 1940 appreximately 20, 630,000 yen, and the amount has
gremm larger eaeh year as eeal eutput has inereased. with the subsidy rising
every year, as preduction costs centimued to advamee, and output (rate) deteriorated;
in erder to assure the miming coneerns a reasonable rate of interest in l94s, the
emermeas figure of 116,900,000 yen has been budgeted for and the subsidy pelioy
strengthemed.
The wartime strueture of the eeal busimess, under the directien of the
Ceal Department of the Peel Bareau of the Ministry of Commeree, has developed
strengly, with the Ceal Cemtrel Cempany as the sontral peint. This cempany
centrels all ceal-miming seneerms in the country as its members, and while
premeting sivilian imventiens and plans, is cemplotely unified with the
gevermmsat. As headquarters of the struggle for inereased predustien of seal,
its respemsibility is very great. The president of the eempany is Mr. Renjire
Mateemete, fermer head ef the Meiji Mining Cempany, whe frem actual experienee
of eeal-mindng em the spet has a bent for direeting: fer the sake of the
elesest liaisem with the distributiem side, he is alse head of the Wippem Ceal
Compamy.
The factetum and memaging directer is Kegere Demara, fermer Viee-.
President af the Planning Beard, while the remmining direetere and the heads
af the basinmee seeti ome are men of knowlodge and experienee from the big
for expamsiem of predactien, plamming fer supply, planaing for investigatien
ef liaisem with centrel ergans in the ealemdes and abread, and unifieatien and
ergasisatien of the imtustry, asd apervisiem of predusties, labour, mterials,
/distributiom

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.94)
4
We turm mew to the exeoution of the produetion plans adopted. The
produetion quota allotted to each company; great endeavours have been made,
by making the production of its quota the duty of each oompany, to put
produotion control on a firm basis. and to ensure the supply of labour and
materials, and thereby that a just distribution is carried out. The labour
poliey is for the labour section of the Control Company to cooperate in the
exeeution of the labour mobilisation plans of the Welfare Ministry, and to
distribute quetas of labourers equitably to the mines with a high 'rate of
preduetiem, frem the three labour sourees, namely, ordinary men in the prime
of life, Kerean labourers, and the Patriotic Labour Corps.
Again, the mmintemance of the distribution of coal mining materials,
of which there are 170-180 kinds, food for the labourers, and essential living
commodities, is entirely carried out by the materials seotion of the company.
As regards the distributien of seal itself, Mr. Köichi Arai, whe is
head of beth the distributiem sestiom of the Contrel Company and the distribution
sectiem of the Mippem Ceal Cempaxy, decides distributien plans and even carries
eut the direetiom of the contrel of leading and transpertation. Through the
single comtrol of the Wippon Ceal Cempany, cooperative buying and selling is
earried out respestively by desigmted wholesale and retail groups.
It has been desided that the "Patriotio Coal-Mmintenanee Movement"
shall only remmin in existenee anether month, but through the cooperation and
cemplete agreement ef civilians and officials, the weaknesses of laek of
labeur and materials, and the inereasing cost of living have been overeome,
and good results shewn, while the ultimate production inorease to pass the
predmstiem figure aimed at has been maintained. However, in order te inerease
eeal preduetiom in the present cireumstances of a decisive war, the twe major
pelieies of a streng prierity system, and amalgamation and reorganisation of
the miming arees, have beeeme tepieal questions.
In erder te earry eut a suprem priority poliey with regard to those
limited esseatials te productiem, labour, materials, and capital, and with
regard to mritime tramepert, the gevermment will shertly, by the enfereement
ef a mrtime Administrative Pewers Special Cases and a Wartime Administrative
Spesial Casss Law revise the existing system of the independenee of Govermment
orfiees ef the Cemtral Geversment, and, by istreduding elastieity inte the
eemtrel ef bereemeraey, place a prierity uaificstiem en the administratien
of predestien, thereby epexing up the marrew reed of imereased predustion.
Alse prierity predaetiem will be eemeestrated by areas, aecerding to the
mtare of the eeal, and frem the peimt of view of effieiesey of mime mmagement.
The reerganisatien and amlgamtias of miaes is related te the
enfereement af a préerity syaten, and has been a pending question for a leng
time. Owing to the adreumstamess and isterests af all the cempanies, it has
made me pregress hitherte. The plamming seeti on of the Coal Contrel Cempany
has, sinse ite formation, been advesating the researeh for and drarting of a
Law fer the reerganisatéen and ammlgamatien of cellseries and istertangled
miming areas. Pimally, in the l9ss-4s fiseal year, to moet present sireum-
stasses, the Govermment has obtaimed the funds for a subeidy to amlgamatéon
and reerganise mines, and will de se. the ratiemal amlgamtiem of the big
/10d1010001

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
Mmividsal eempaxies, has been a preblem for a long time, but the amalgaatien
 reergamisstiem of the 700 edd medium and small companies is the biggest
problem.
As was stated frequently at the last meeting of the Diet, both by
Commeree Minister Kishi and by mombers of the Government, the reorganisation
and ammlgammtion of collieries will achieve increased production by supplying
limited labour, mmterials, eto. to the mines which heve a good rate of
produetion and geod future prospeots.
As far as reorganisation goes, apart from efficiency and goed future
prespeets, mere attemtiom will be paid to special coal usable as a raw material
(for ehemieal industry) and for gas produetion, than to ordinary coal. Again
from the standpeint of shipping, due oonsideration is being given to giving
precedense te mines remote from the ares where the coal is used over those
near to swsh areas.
In eemelusien, the quiekness and smoothness with which the reorganisatie
and amelgamatieme and the priority system are earried out will be a measure of
the imsrease of sur seal preduetion, and therefore of the inerease in our
national war potential.
B.M.
12.7.43
bo

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
Japamese Translatien Series No. 50
n mresu,
July 16th, 1943
of Infermation
PE 80/3/16/z
110, Now Bolhd
Translation from the "Asahi Shimbun"
(Western Edition published at Kokura)
of 4.3.1943
Translated by H.C. Hainworth
"The Five Great Primary Industries"
5. Irem and steel
With the development of the Chine Inoident the I.S.A. adopted the
poliey of oppressing Japan, and above all reached the point of intimidation
when in Deeember 1940 she completely prohibited the export of ores, pig iron,
and steel material. Up till then the dependence of the Japanese iron and
steel werld  fereigm supplies of sorap iron and steel materials had been
great, and there is no demying that the U.S.A.'s intimidatory prohibition was
a eemsiderable blew. Fertumtely, hewever, this had the effeot of abolishing
the previeus depemdemee ef Japan's iren and steel industry on foreign supplies
and gave a stimalus to self-supply in iron and steel. The Iren and steel
Cemtrel Cempaay was bern in the iron and steel situation sreated, without
wmiting fer the publieetion of the Importent Industries Ordimnee. Reviewing
the sireumstamees of the foundation of this company, it made its first objective
the umified mamagement of the iron and steel industry, in order to establish an
indepemdemt irom and steel industry within the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity
Sphere, and by making the iron and steel industry bodies and concerns in both
Mmmchuria and Japan its members, it aimed at the execution of a natiomal
defemee strueture. Thereafter it wes reformed, upon the enforeement of the
Impertant Imdustries Ordimmmse, but ever sinoe, it has always promoted the great
objestive of self-supply, and taken measures to deal with the ohanging situation
beth befere and after the outbreak of the Great East Asie war, invariably
eesapying a leading pesitien in industrial eiroles.
At present there are 49 mombers of the Iron and Steel Contrel Cempany.
made up ef as mamfacturing cempanies, 4 raw material er marketing eempanies, and
7 empamies frem Mameharia. of the mamfacturing companies, five, memely,
Mipem Irem (EITTETsU). Nippen Steel and Tubes (NIPPON KOKA), Nakayamm Steel
earry eut the whele presess of mmefaeture frem pig to steel. Apart frem them,
SHOel (AMALAKI SKIKO), Sami teme Metal ImDUStRieS (SUMI TOMO KINZOKU KOGYO), Azumm
Mitaabshd Steel (MITSUBIsHI SEIKo), Mppen Speeial Steel and Tabes (MIPPON
TOsam mkaN), Ketebaki Neavy Indastries (mOtosUXI JUko), ete., as they have
met the sereless (1) farmece equipmeat fer mmking pig iren eut of iren ere,
mmnfeekare steel mterials er special steels in open heerth furmaces. Ameng
all the preel-predacing campaaies, the pesitiens cceupied by Nippem Iren and
repressatative eempamies ef the Japanese steel iadustry. In partieular, Nippen
Irem, whiah is half a matiomal poliey company, is equipped am a hage ceale, and
prodaees more than half Japam's iren and steel, while Mippem Steel and Tabes is
the emly esmpaxy in the country which uses the Thomas methed of steel predactien.
/Mowever

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
-8-
as this is an exeeedingly prefitable methed of mking use of lew
wee, in Besember 1962 Wippem Iron began to use it, and the teehnienl
hs were made pablie. Among the mariketing and raw material eempanies, the
m and Steel aw Material Cemtrol Cempany and the Iron and Steel Marketing
Semtrel Gompasy are a complete immer ergan, their entire capital being fimaneed
by the Irem and steel Control Company and their presidents being officials of
thie same company. That is to say, the Tron and Steel Raw Materials Control
Company is the organ whioh alone buys up pig iron, helf manufactured goods,
iron ore, iron serap, and coal for use in iron manufacture, and distributes
it to the iron and steel concerns by quotas fixed by the Iron and Steel Control
Company. Likewise the Iron and Steel Marketing Control Company is the organ
which alome buys up manufactured iron and steel and sells it to the consumers,
im aceerdamee with the direetioms of the Iron and steel Control Company, through
the emissiom firms, factors, and special agents. Thus the iron and steel
industry is plammed right through, from produotion, through distribution, to
consumption.
The six Manchurian manufacturing companies which are mmmbers are
Showe Steel (sHOWA SEIKO), Ponshihu Coal and IROn (HONKEIKO BAITETSU KOSHI),
Amsan Steel Materials (ANSAN KOZAI), Manchu Rehr (MAMSHU RONU), Manchurian
Samiteme Metal Imdastries (MAMHU SUMI TOMO KINZOKU KOGYO), and Japam-Manchuria
Steel and Tabes (WICHIMAN KOKAN). Of these Sheme Steel oarries cut eomplete
operatiems frem pig to steel. It wes founded in l989, and was at first under
the mamagement of the South Manehurian Railway, but has sinee been taken under
the wing of the Manehurie Heavy Industries Company, and is the mext biggest
eempaxy beth for equipent and output after eur Mippon Iron. Every year it
preduees a large quamtity of pig iren and steel materials and experts them to
Jepam. Im the 1942-43 fiseal year it exported pig iron to Japan to the full
amount planmed and is said to have attained the planned amount of steel materials,
which is truly reassuring.
Again, the new North Chine Iron Company (HOXWSHI SEITETSU KAISHA) held
its rirst general meeting in December l942, its factery equipment is still being
ereeted, but when it starts production it will be a step forward to the realisation
of the upreme objest of sur iren and steel industry, namely eomplete self-
suffielemey in iron and steel throughout Japan, Manehurie, and Chimm, end from
the peint ef view of its loeation, expeetations from it and Showm Steel will
imsrease mere and more in the future.
If the seope of military operations is widemed, the demand fer iren
just as a meterial fer munitions will imerease; if the aree of eperatiems is
enlarged, the larger it grows the greater will be the diffioulties aeeempasying
irem predactiem, for transpert and other reasens, and aeserdingly it is the
respomsibdlity of these eharged with the mamafasture of iren to evereeme these
difrieulties semehew er cther and mintain preduetiem. At the cemsultetive
meeting ef the Irem and steel Centrel Cempany in Decomber loáz, it was suggested
that measares te be mest emergetieally fellewed to attain the quetes for the
sesend half ef the fimameis: year were, abmermal imereese is the preductiem
of irem ere in Japan preper; imprevement in the quality ef ere; akvermml
ef the mse or iren sandsteme in Japan preper; ehangeover to self-sufrieieney
by eeel-prodseing areas, and imprevement in the low quality of coke; imerease in
the rate af transpert te and tranefer to the arny ef mw materials and maafaetured
inerease in the quamtity ef iren and steel imperted frem manekaria.
1

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
Bat if the supply of Japamese iren ore is imoreased, a fall in iron
steel predustion is to be feared beoause of the low quality of the ore.
The way te mke up for this is by inereasing the proportion of sorap iron. To
de this it is absolutely essential to make the collection of sorap thorough.
In Jume 1942 the Mippon Sorap Iron Control Company amelgamated with the late
Copper Comtrel Company and absorbed the Wartime Commodities Utilisation Association
to form the Metal Collection Control Company, a complete and unified organ. It
eelleets from factories, business concerns, and ordinary households, and already
great hepes are set by it to produc∞ large quantities of sorap this year, through
the famdemental reorganisation of the peace time industries. Moreover the
govermmsmt deelared in the recent diet that the machinery of collection was to
be freely erganised, and it is shewing great determination. As regards the
tramspert preblem, sonsideration is being given to the idea of advancing the
mammfeeturing equipmont to the mining districts by erecting coreless (?)
furmeees and small-seale blast furnaces there; in partioular the erection of
small-seale blast furmces is a topical question, for they only require convenient
materials and de mot take long toerect. Already Nippon Iron, Nippon Steel and
Tabes, and Kotebuki Heavy Industries are disoussing the matter; the distriets
fer smeh eemstruetion are widespread, in Japan, Manchuria, North Chinm, and
Formoea.
Great progress has been made in dealing with suoh a pressing situation
in the preduetion of iron and steel and in their control by the putting into
foree by the govermment on January 27th 1943 of the Factories and Works Super-
visien Ordinanee and by the aceompamying complete revision of the Iron and Steel
Cemtrel Ordimanee. Government eontrol of facteries is exercised at the important
iren werks throughout the country, and its purpose is the removal of all weaknesses
in preduetien and its maintenance at the necessary level. Three points in
partisuler must be emphasised in the significance of Govermment centrol of facteries:
(1) Pull and general recognition of the importanee of factories that are under
natiemal supervision, and therefore the enecuragement of willingness to cooperate
with them, (2) The ability of supervised factories to consoript labour, and, at
the same time the faet that 1ren manufaeture labour problems have been solved by
mmking the former supervisi&h/labour consistent; (s) The exhaustive planning of
prodmotion.
The last has partioular meaning as a stage in the exeeution of conerete
predmetion plans, based en the mterials mebilisation plans, for it is to be
regretted that the gauge and measurements of mmafastured goeds did not always
agree with the speeifieatiens; but with geverment supervision of faetories,
cemplete aseerd is ebtaimed between preduetien and geverament demands, as regards
beth grade and time of produetiom.
Dader gevermment control of irem werks, a superviser frem the Ministry
of Commeree and Imdustry is sent te the plaee eemeerned. The resident effieial
fermmrly somt by the Centrel Cempasy is suberdimate to him and cooperates with
the direetéene he gives ae the apet, the twe, working as eme, ain at the cemplete
esccuttom of production plans.
In Deesmber 1942 Machisabure Hiree, the first President of the Cemtrel
the President af Mippem Iren, and Yeshiouke atammbe, the President ef Narth
Ghame Irem, were respeetively appeinted to take their plases. Teyeda's appeint-
mout as President while retaining the presideney of Wippen Iren breke the
/primsiplo

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
Imsiple that presidemey of the Cemtrel Compaxy is a full-time jeb, and
te am emeeptiem. The time of the establishmemt of the Iren and steel Control
Gempemy, whiek headed the list in the exeeution of the Important Industrial
Cerperatiems Ordimamee, mas e great turning-point in self-support in iron
and steel in Japan, Manchuria, and Chine. It was essential that the Control
Compemy should occupy a strong directing position over industrial cirolus,
and already our iron and steel industry has reauhed another turning point.
where one ton of iron now must be regarded as more important than ten tons
in the future. Accordingly it is required of the man in charge of control
that he shall review the produetion situation and apply the necessary measures
ome after the other. It is for this reason that the President of the Control
Compamy is alse President of Nippon Iron.
Teyeda, as soon as he took office as President of the Control
Company, beldly revised the mechanism of the Control Company, convinced that
the main poliey of management should be changed from respeot for plans to
their praetical execution. He ineluded the plaming department in the
preduetien department, thereby unifying planning and production, and devoted
all his efferts to practical exeoution of plans by conoentrating in this
emlarged preduetion department a display of the future faculties of the
Cemtrel Compamy.
PIM
16.7.43

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Divistono
FAR FASTERN FFAIRS
1943
FROM
PLAIN
NOV 251943
Bern
Dated November 15, Y943
LIAISON
INFORMATION
File
Rec'a 12: 36 p.m
NOV 2 6 1943
BLOCKADE AND SUPPLY
DIVISION
ro'd nw
Washington
NOV 16 1943.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
7152, Fifteenth
FOR SUPPLY AND BLOCKADE DIVISION FROM PRESS
三
BOURCES.
Dr. Walter Sohieber, Department Chief of German
Armaments Ministry told journalists; Japan has brought
steEl production up from. threE mill1on tons yEarly
prE-war to Eight mill1on. Aluminum from 17,000
soobo0. öAs. Motor fuel production now two
43
million tons yearly.
Reprated to London.
HARRIBON

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING
COMMUNICATO
TELEGRAM
AND RECORO
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
PLAIN
LL-861
201944
DEPOTY PIRETTOR
BErn
Deparhoerd of State
Dated July 19, 1944
894.60/7-1944
REc'd 4:02 p.m.
1944
Secretary of State,
Washingtc
4620, NinE teEnth.
GErman press 12th statcs JapanEsE Transport Ministry
announced transportation plan first quarter current fiscal
year only 96% fulfillEd corresponding to l05% same period
last yEar. Transportation schedulE sEcond quarter
ASAHI SHIMBUN cited as declaring first querter witnessed
inoreased production airplanes ships and light mtels with
overaverage rainfall giving Extra Electric power
facilitating production light metals, New Electric power
plants alirgedly will permit construction additional
alumimum plants. All around favorable situation expected
sult in over-fulfillment 1ight m tal production plan
during first q. arter new fiscal year. Production special
2
steel drelared aubstantially above last year. Whils
situntion difricult mw agresmnt wim Core
d contribute solusion tu

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
DCR
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
Anited States Department of Justice
Mashington, D.C.
PERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASK REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
60/9-1844
Date:
September'1 8 1944
go
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
JeFrom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
SubJect: JAPANESE IIDUSTRY
As of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto a memorandum
OMM
setting forth information contained in the Japanese Yearbook known as "Toyo-Nikki
published in 1939. This information was obtained pursuant to a request for
information on this subject by the Foreign Economic Auministration and a copy of
the attached memorandum is bein; furnishel that Agency, as well as the Department
of Commerce.
894.60/9-1844
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Office of
0919
Navy Depar tment, Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP271944
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
oRyictoRY
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
War Department, Washington, D. C.
BUY
Department of State
Attention: Colonel L. R. Forney
Enclosure JA
Justree Dupartmewt Gundelimes, 1-27-1984
RTG
5-16-1984

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
MuttadStates Department of Justice
SEP 2 9 1944
Mashington,D.C.
DIVISION OF
IN REPLY, PLEASE R
ERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
Date:
Sc: tember
PAR ASTR
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
OCT4
FILED
894.60/9-2544
Assistant Secretary of State
Department
grt
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
1011
Subject:
JAPANESE INDUSTRY
KOBE, JAPAN
There is furnished you herewith a report based upon information
obtained from a confidential, reliable source in Brazil who spent several
years in Japan in an official capacity prior to the middle of 1942.
It will be noted that the informant furnished information concerning
the location of piers, warehouses, and the important Kawasaki shipyards in
Kobe, Japan.
Thereae transmitted herewith two aerial views of the city of Kobe
which set forth the pier area, the Kawasaki shipyards, the most important
public building in Kobe, the Prefeitura, and the elevated railroad running the
OMM
longth of Kobe which connects Tokyo and Shimonoseki.
This information is also being furnished to the Foreign Economic
Administration.
oc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
Navy Department
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure
EP 8614
894.60
DECLASSIFIED
dice D.partment Qilelines, 1-2719
y
NARS, Date S-16-d384

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
September 6, 1944.
Re:
JAPANESE INDUSTRY,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The following invostigation was conducted at São Salvador, Bahia,
mazil.
A confidential reliable source, who spent several years in Japan
in an ofricial capacity prior to the middle part of l942, recently gave
the following information of a general nature concerning Japanese in-
dustry and the location of strategic facilities in and around Kobe, Japen:
Kobe, at the time souree left Japan, was the most important port
in Japan, serving as the port of Osaka, then the most important in-
@ustrial center in Japan. Kobe, a city of about 1,000,000 inhabitants,
its bask side by a high mountain range, according to souree's deseription.
Meaghly in the eenter of Kobe were located 1tn many long plers. Near
these piers were many large concrete warehouses which at the time souree
left Japan were being utilized as barracks for troops embarking for China
and elsewhere, and for other military purposes. A short distanee to the
west of the pier area and on the waterfront, of course, were situated
the KAwasAkI shipyards, described by source as Japan's most important
shipbuilding coneern, these snipyards having been the target of the
first American bembing raid over Japan in Apr1l, 1942. (Source's informa-
tiem soneerning the damage caused by this raid had come from Japanese
sourees and was to the effect that little or no damage had been done.)
Aecording to source, the most importent public building in Kobe
was the Prefeitura. He could describe this building only as a two-story
Freneh-style structure loeated near the conter of the commercial area ef
surround it.
Although souree was unable to give any details, he stated there
b aleng the railread rumning between Kobe and Osaka. Kobe's
-1-

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.86)
Foad conneets rokyo and shimonoseki, n inter edlete terminals being
hama, Nagoya, Kyoto, and Osakm.
According to spurce, the most i portant industrial centers in Japen
wre rospectively Osaks, Tokyo, ani poya.
20

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.88)
Noverber 21,
oseferto
Dear Septain Pearse:
The Gommedities Division of the State Department
has been assigmed the preparatlon of the Civil Affairs
stedy, lafermatien is being complled on the consentration
894.00/1
ef swmerahip in important industries of whish ship-
buiising is, of course, one.
Par its work on the Japamese shipbuilding ladustry
the Semmedities Division wishes to obtaim data on mer-
chant and naval somstreetion on a yard by yard basís
fer the major shipbuilding yards of the coaatry. This
la mesded in order te gain an estimate of the sigaifi-
samse ef variems sorporate combimes in the shipbailding
indastry.
144
It would be greatly appreclated 1f onI ceuld furaish
the Sammodities Divisien with this information.
simeerely yours,
1
Bebert P. Terrill
Asting Assistamt Chief
Commodities Division
894.6
Saptain L. B. Pearee.
1/0m
Duroem of Operations,
244P.M.
Departmeet of the Navy,
MOV 90
Washington 25, D.0.
CD1 ENN: MO
11/18/44
DCR - ECA Unit
2
Annl. Wa
stcte

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.95)
ECTERE
DCR
PERSONALA
JA
DIVISION OF
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMER 110-3
1944
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Date:
December 2 1944
To:
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal ureau of Investigation
Subject: Location of Japanese Industries
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted herewith a
copy of a memorandum dated September 25, 1944, at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
containing limited information regarding the location of Japanese industries
in Yokahama, Japan.
This information was obtained from a reliable, confidential source
and is being made available to the American Embassy at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil,
as well as to the Foreign Economic Administration.
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
assistant Chief of Staff
Navy Department
OF JAPANESE
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Hashington, D. C.
PORVICTORY
6ー2
BUY
Enclosure
DEC-81944
tention: Colonel Carter W. ark
2.3
Justiss Depantucal Gunkclives, 1.24-19sy
ByRTG
NARS. Date 5-46.1984

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
september 2., 1944
：
Rio de Janeiro, Mazil
un September 20, 194s, Source A advised that he
had arrived in Yokohama, Japan, in August, 1941, and was
interned by the Japanese on December 8, 1941, and hat
during the brief interim travel id information was so
limited to foreimers that he was mable to obtaln my
information that was not considered conmon knowledge about
the oity of Yokohama.
He stated, however, that Yokohama was co sidered
the second most important seaport in Japan, thic first being
Osaka. Yokohame 1s located about twenty- Ive miles South
of Tokdo on the sea and is linked w: th thhe capital by a
modom four track electrio railroad. In tiis conection
Bouroe A stated ti at there is a sizcable mnitiuns plent
looated about midway between the two citles wnd a short
distance to the sust oi the railroud. T 1s plant, accordin
to Source A was one of the objectives in General Duull TLas
raid on Tokio, a this souroe nad reard chat damare
and casualties liad resulted at chis place.
Source A stated that considerable menuiacturing
is looated in Yokolama including te tiles, lass, silk, and
chemieals, however, lhe was wmable to ide itify any important
industrial concentratiuns for te writer. He did state,
hewever, that he was able to observe many smoke stacks and
a great deal of industrial activity across the harbor to the
Northeast of the city p'oper at a distance of about eight miles
from the dock seetion. He was urable to say what was being
produeed in this place but mentioned that he was able to
observe many different colored fires against the sky
whieh led him to believe that ahemicais were being made there.
He suggested that a good land mark in Yokohama is the wide
avemme that borders on the harbor itself. Following this
avemme North one can easily locate the principle docks on
the Morth side of the harbor.
-1-

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
December
6,1908
Dear Mr. Gooch:
Mr. Walter M. Rudolph and Miss Kleanor M. Hadley
of this Depertment have informed me of their meeting
with you and Dr. Taube on November 28 to discuss in-
formally the preparation of a bibliography, based on
89
Germen sourees, relating to industrial organization in
Japan. This project will be particularly useful to the
94.60/12-644
Department in preparing a Civil Affairs Guide on the
Japamese eartel system. The Department will therefore
greatly appreeiate the undertaking of this bibliography
by the Library of Congress.
You and Dr. Faube will doubtless wiah to discuss
further with Mr. Rudolph such matters as the scope and
form of the project, and he will be available to assist
in any way possible to expedite the work. The Depart-
mont does not wish to discommode the Library's scheduled
program; however, it would like to have access to the
bibliography at the earliest convenient date.
2
May I take this opportunity to thank you for the
courtesy extended to Mr. Rudolph and Miss Hadley.
一
Sincerely yours,
S
DOR - ECA Unt
Anal.
K. P. Terrill
Jat.
Acting Assistant Chier
Dist.
Commodities Division
Mr. Robort P. Gooch, Chief,
General Reference and Bibliography Division,
Library of Congress,
Washington 25, D.C.
644
OUWMR:MC
12/1/44

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
PEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFALRS
EMBASSY OF THE
11915/
UNITED STATES R AMERICA
Santiago,
o.1179
Subjoot:
Tramming a Copy of the Iggal Attach' Report
dated Deoember 4, 1944 Coneerning Conditions 1n Japan
as Reported by Armando LAßRA Carvajal, Former Shilean
Minister in Tokyo, and Bugenio and Miguel SISIKIN,
White Russians.
IVED
CONFIPENTEAL
FE2
RECEI
The Honorable
The Seeretary of State,
JAN 41945
Washington, D.C.
sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of the Logal Attaché'
report of December 4, l944, covering interviews had by informents
of the Legal Attaché with Armando LABRA Carvajal, Former Chilean
Minister to Japan, and with Bugenio and Miguel SISIKIN, white
Russians who reportodly left Japan on October 2, 1940 and in
July 194l, respectively.
It is suggested that the substance of this report be made
available to the Foreign Economic Administration in viow of its
interest in obtaining all possible iaformation on conditions in
Japan.
Respectfully yours,
u
CLAUDE G. BOWERS
Enclosure:
Report of Legel Attaché
dated D9cember 4, 1944.
Copies to Military, Navel and
Legal Attaché of this Rmbassy.
GDA: aws
File No. 30o Japan

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.91)
13, 1060.
COPY
Report of Legal Attaché
Santiago, Chile
December 4, 1944.
Re: JAPANEBE DNDOSTRY.
CARLOS PORRAS (CACERES), First Secretary of the Peruvien Eabassy
in sastiage, was interviewed and he advised he had previously beem
the First Seoretary of the Peruvian Babassy in Tokyo but had returned
to Peru in October, 1940. He said that he had spen 3 years in Japan
but that he had no Japanese friends and that he was umable to give
any pote-date information on Japanese industrial facilities since he
had lert well befere the outhreek of war with the United states.
masie corps wise repatriated from Japan in September, 194s:
AMANDO LABBA (CARBAJAL); wife and two children;
fesmse Gaileam Minister in Tokyo.
MAUL GUADROS (CERDA) and wife; former Commercial
Astesbé in the Chilean Legation in Tokyo, who returmed
to 1le in Mareh, 1945.
JEAN MARDN, femer Ghilean Consul General in Shanghai
whe returmed toe cile semetime in l94s and was later
ssst as a diplematic represeatative to San Salvader.
 has recemtly been meminated for a post in Chine.
is preJagemese in sympetay and returned to caile 
December 29, 1945.
GUILLmme de la JARA, fermer Chilean Consul is Eebe,
Japes. Ee is reperted to heve returned to Caile in
September, 1945.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.92)
- 8 
fam industrial areas. Ne stated, homover, that mmoh of Japan's
predctien mas beins handled cn a piece basis in e manner approximat-
Ang "mweet shop" methcds wnion have been nsed ia certain iadustries
s the States. Ia this sommeetien, he stated that Japanese families
wase siven variess units to manatasture in their own homes and that
these were colleeted weekly by meens of trueks and taken to a oentral
smsbling plant. E stated that this methed of mamafasture was com
mem threughout Japam and that, altheugh it was inefficient, it made
far smeet diversificatiem of industrial areas. He stated that the
feek mhertage at the time he had left was acute and, in this cennection,
stated that a friemd of his in the Japasese Govermment had told him that
the feod whioh was rationed to his femily mas sufficiemt oaly for the
two shildrem and that be was fereed to depend upen black market purahases
to seeure feed for himself and his wife. He aiso stated that upom his
departare a Japasese diplomat had approached him and endeavored to buy
whatever alothing and food LABka might wish to leave in Japan. Also in
cemmectiom with the food problem, Limma added that the provisions on
the Japenese exohange ship were extremely meagre.
MI0 ADskIN, aged 23, a White Russian, was interviewed by
Seuree A in cemmeetien with this case, at Baneague, Chile, where he is
ampleyed by the Breden Copper Company as seeretary to the Saperintemdente
de Bienestar. SIsIkIN advised he had left Japen on Ootober 2, l960, but
that his brother, MIoUXL, had stayed on until July, l94l, befere coming
to Chile. sIsikin was able to give very little specifie iafermation;
homever, he advised that there was an eirplane plant near the mountain
of segits, a suburt of Yokohame. He stated he had also neted new com-
straetiens near the town of Lamate. He likewise stated that fust befere
his departure he had noted new factories being comstrueted in Taurumi.
MIGUEL SIgIKIN was interviewed by Source A and be advised he had
Lert Japan in July, 194l, to come to Chile. He arrived in Japam in 1927
frem Mrbin, China. He stated he could speak but ceald mot reed er write
Japanese asd that he had gone to sohool in Japan from 19s7 to 19ss, whem
he sredeated from St. Joseph's Schoel. From l9ss to l9ss he was employed
as a travelins salemen, selling readymade clothes fer his fathber whe
had a mall alothing stere in Japan. He advised that from l9ss be had
some to Manekako to stndy engineering but failed to finish the somrse be
emee of the fact that the college he was attending was elosed by the
Japasess. In l94o he returmed to Sakalim Ialasd, Japan, to comtinwe in
his werk as a clothing saleman. He cemtimed in this employmemt fer one
year watil July, l94l, when he decided to leave Japan and oome to Chile,
Be was able to give the following specific information in regard to
Japamese industrial facilities:
The Darson automobile factory is located at Tsurumi, a suburb of
Takyo. The Asamo shipbuilding plant is leoated at Seising, whieh is a
pest at the merthern end of the Koree Peminsula.
Ee zoted that subterrenean hangare fer plases were being cosstracted
meer the tewm of Konume, whioh is alese to the eity of Toyohare, on the
Island of Sakalin.
A synthetic oil plant wms bailt in l94o in Maihero, Sakalin.
/A8
