894.542 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Patents. ** Country In (File 1819)
ID: 894.542-1819   Pages: 267   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.542-intellectual-and-industrial-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
CES
ACTION
is assigned to
C
LAWRENCE LANGNER
DIVISION OF
ITP
JOHN PARRY
TELEPHONE MURRAY HILL 9-634
HERBERT LANGNER
CO
GEORGE VON-GEHR
LEONARD J. ROBBINS
()
WASHINGTON OFFICE
STEPHEN P. LADAS
S. DELVALLE GOLOSMITH
900 F. ST. N.W.
SIDNEY DESCHAMPS
SOLICITORS AND AGENTS
LONDON OFFICE
F. H. LOGAN
120 EAST 418T STREET
DEPARTMEBIT OF STATE
5 QUALITY COURY
A. C. GODDARD
NEW YORK 17, N.Y.
CHANCERY LANE, W. C.Z
M.DESCHAMPS
R. E. BUCKNAM
DIVIS'ON OF OCCUPIÉD AR AS
E. C. STREETER, JR.
E. G. SACHS
ELO O∵IC AFFAIRS
J. L. HERNANDEZ
H. P. PECK
E. BOWDEN
OCT 12 1948
DeR
L.C. BARRETT
R.W DE MARINIS
DEPARTMLAI OF
STATE
September 9, 1948
LEGAL ADVISER
Hon. Secretary of State
894.542/9-948
56-e
Department of State
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
10/1/48 RCN
Washington, D. C.
SEP 15 1948 zile
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1.
We have been advised of a memorandum issued by SCAP
in Japan under date of April 22, 1948 concerning the restoration
of property owned by nationals of the United Nations which was
located in Japan prior to the outbreak of the war and which has been
the subject of confiscation, dispossession, spoilation and other
measures taken on the part of the Japanese Government or Japanese.
2.
We assume that these provisions include rights of
industrial property, such as patents and trade-marks which were re-
corded in the Patent Office in the name of American nationals before
the war and which have been acted against by the Japanese Government.
3.
In this connection, we understand that the so-called
War-Time Law of Industrial Property was promulgated early in 1942
by Japan under which the Patent Office proceeded to cancel all patents
and trade-marks of record in the name of American nationals.
4.
We respectfully submit that, instead of requiring
American nationals, owmers of such rights of industrial property
in Japan, to apply for restoration of their property and then wait
upon action of the Japanese Government for the restoration of such
rights, it would be more equitable, expedient and simple if the
CS/V
1948
OPASE SAE
Japanese Government should pass a law repealing the so-called War-
Time Law of Industrial Property of 1942 as to all its effects, and
OFFIE OF
providing that all patents and trade-marks in the name of American
12
nationals and also nationals of the United Nations be deemed to have
never been cancelled and to be in full force and effect as if such
D
Law of 1942 had never been passed. If such a new law is passed and
15
communicated to the Patent Office, the said patents and trade-marks
would be deemed to remain on the records of the Patent Office in Japan.
The Office will be required to remove from the records the entry of
cancellation of American trade-marks and patents, thereby restoring
the pre-war situation.
6
-5.
It is, of course, evident that there should also be
smaderprovision in due course to the effect that the period as between
the outbreak of the war and the restoration of normal relations between
m
Li1.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
LANGNER,PARRY,CARD & LANGNER
PAGE
2
the United Nations and Japan should not be taken into account so that
any rights that may have lapsed in the meantime by reason of non-renewal
of registrations, expiration of legal periods for opposition or cancella-
tion, payment of annuities, etc. may be completely restored.
Respectfully
LANGNER PARRY CARD & LANGNER
By thy V. hoe
STEPHEN P. LADAS
SPL CL
392

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
OCT 81948
In reply refer to
IR 894.542/9-948
19.948
My dear Mr. Ledas:
I refer to your letter of September 9, 1948, in
which you raise gueries with respect to a SCAP memorandum
of April 22, 1948, dealing with restoration of property
in Janan to United Nations nationals. The memorandum
to which you refer is not concerned with the problem of
the restoration of industrial nronerty rights, which,
894.542/9-948
because of its comnlexity, is being handled separately
in other ocuments.
As I informed you orally last weelk, a program has
been worked out for the restoration in Japan of industrial
oronerty rights of foreign nationals, and this program
is now before the Far Eastern Comaission for its approval.
Although considerable time is involved in obtaining this
annroval, it appears to the Department to be highly
desirable th: t this sten be taken prior to action by SCAP,
in view of the equally valid interest of other nations
in the progre. It is particularly importent in view of
the fact that substantiel agreement among interested
countries may now forestall a later reopening of the
issue in connection with the drafting of a peace treaty
with Janan. e expect that SCAP will be ble to implement
this program before the end of the year.
7
The program, with respect to patents, as presently
constituted, calis for the revalidation and restoration of
all foreign-owned rights vhich were cequestered during the
war or which lansed for non-vayment of fees. It provides
for
894.54
Mr. Stenhen P. Ladas,
Langner, Parry, Card & Langner,
120 East Forty-First Street,
New York 17, New York.
800
2
C
A
6

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
for the election by the foreign owner of the receipt of
accrued royalties and other payments or an extension of
the effective period of the patent as recompense for the
period of loss during the war. It also calis for extension
of the convention period of priority to permit foreign
nationals to file in Japan on the basis of first filings
abroad made less than a year before the start of the war
with Japan.
With respect to trade-marks, the program is less well
advanced, but we anticipate that it wiil contain similar
provisions for restoration and revalidation of foreign-
owned rights and will contain measures designed to prevent
the use of decentive practices by Japanese nationals,
which is in line with the recommendations which you for-
warded to the Department in your letter of October 17,
1947.
We fully recognize the a dvantages which would be
involved in effecting restoration of foreign rights simply
by revocation of the wartime Law of Industrial Property.
However, it will probably be necessary for a number of
technical reasons to require that foreign owners make
application for restoration of their rights.
We aporeciete very much the receipt of your views
on this subject and will keeo them in mind as the program
develops.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting $ecretary of State:
W
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
uat
yom
Red
ITP:IR:RCDixon:sl
JTP
EP
L/E
0
10-1-48
OCT
OCT
948 PM.
1948 P.M.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
ACT
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
No. 598
Tokyo, September 11, 1948.
DIVISION OF
RESTRICTED (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY)
NORTHIDST ASUN AFFAIRS
Subject: Suspension of SCAPT' 1923, CoDEPARTMENTr 0SIAks,
etc.
OEPAREN   AIE
RANCH
542/8-1948
RECVE
894
HONORAPLE
R.894542
THESGRETARY F STATE,
1948$EP 17
PASHDICTON.
ACI
FE OFDL
St
la
I have the honor to refer to this : ission's despatch No. 534
of August 12, 1943.entitled mransmittal of SCAP Memorandum for the
Japanese Governnent concerning Trademarks, etc., dated July 29,
1948".
It wi 1l le rocalled that ScAPIN 1923, which was enclosed with
that despatch, required the Japanese Government to enact legislation
providing that exclusive use of certain holding company and monopoly
ACTION
tralemarks by subsidiaries or successor companies to the original
users co ld be prohibited at the discretion of the Holding Company
00P1ES
Liquidation Commission, and that free use of such trademarks by any
TO:
and all manufacturers should be allowed in the future.
It is now reported by officials in the Anti-Trust and Cartels
Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of this Headquarters
that the implementing of SCAPIN 1923 has been suspended pending fur-
ther study and determination of policy, apparently on the basis of a
complaint received by the Deconcentration Review Foard from the
Westinghouse Electric Jompany.
The Westinghouse complaint dwelt in general terms on the ques-
tion of the reorganization of the Mitsubishi Electric Company, in
which Westinghouse was before the war a minor stockholder, and
recommended strongly that Mitsuhishi Electric be left as one opera
ting unit, considerable diversity leing required in the type of pro
duction in which !itsubishi and .estinghouse are jointly engaged.
The Anti-Trust and Cartels Division states that, though plans for
organization of litsubishi Electric have not been completed, the
company will probahly still be larger after reorganization than it
as before the war.
With regarl to the SCAPIN concerning trademarks, Westinghouse
Contidential
pointed out that consideralle injustice would result in the case of
 company, specifically the itsubishi Pencil Company, which used
the Mitsubishi trademark without being a part of the combine. Though
the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division insists that a careful reading of
the SCAPIN
RESTRICTED

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 598
September 11, 1948
RESTRICTED (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY) -2-
the SCAPIN shows that Mitsubishi Pencil could contimue to exercise
its exclusive rig ts, there is some validity in the Westinghouse
claim as it is difficult to see how the litsubishi Pencil Company
could escape being injured by the degradation of the Mitsubishi mark
contemplated in the SCAP order.
It is interesting to note with regard to the Westinghouse pro-
test that it was addressed to the Deconcentration Review Board, which
is theoretically an advisory and not an administrative agency of this
Headquarters, and w ich, according to established practice, takes
cognizance of a case only after the designated company has received
a preliminary order for reorganization. In the case of Mitsubishi
Electric, no such order, so far as this Mission is aware, has been
dispatched.
Respectfully yours,
VW. J. Sebald.
Original and hectorgraph to Department
one copy
854
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:mis
fou DCR
contial copy
RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.88)
EU
m
2
toras
atettion
542/9-2148
 CLA PLS ACK POR S203 AND 6301T
55
WUP161 DL PD
CD NEWYORK NY SEPT 21 1948 256P
CHARLES E SALTMAN
ASSISTANT SECRFTARY DEPT OF STATES
THANKS FOR YOUR LETTER OF SEPTEMBER 2O RE MEETING ON JAPANESE
MEISEM
PATENTS. CAN APPOINTMENT DE MADE FOR MR.BRADLEY THIS FRIDAY,
CS/A
SEPTEMBER 247
ROBERT F LOPEE NATLONAL FCRHIGN TRADE COUNCIL
th
20 24
4M)
435P.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
OUTGOING TELEGRAM
INDICATE
Collect
UNOLASBEI
Department of State
Charge Department
WashingPLAIN
Charge to
4753
SEP 22 194
Robert F. Loree
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
l11 Broadway,
New York, N. Y.
Have arranged meeting  Japanese patents for eleven am Friday
48
September 24 Room forty-two thirteen New State Bldg. Suggest you confirm
with xotify my assistant Lewis extension two two three five,tooponfdom
CS/A
Charles E. Saltzman
(CON)
chared:
gwh
8
1R
L P
CAD,ARMY
01709
DISTRIBUTION
O:GLewis:mds
Dixn smith
sterenon
DESIRED
894.542/9-2148
(OFFICES ONLY)
None
PLAIN
CR CLEARANCE
1709
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE - 1B47 7B6SSB

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
ACTION COP
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
148
TELEGRAPH SECTION
9/24
INCOMING TELEGRAM
12CD JS DL Pd
CD NewYork NY 145PM Sept 23 1948
Goeffrey Lewis
894.542/9-2348
Office Of Asst Secy Of State For Occupied Ares
Washn
Re Japanese paents understand scap issued directive
September 7 to Japanese government, also public relations
office GHQ issued statement of Sept 14 and memorandum by
Scap civil property custodian issued to Japanese government.
Will copies of these aocuments be available tomorrow?/
E L Behr jr National Foreign Trade Council
305PM
CSN
794.542
Cat.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
七五
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, September 23, 1948.
No. 627
6
UNCLASSIFIED
PM
DUR
Subject: Japanese Registration of Foreign Patents.
100 876
894.542/9-2348
S
1.11
D
M
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
2
copies of a directive issued by this Headquarters to the Japanese
Government (SCAPIN 5981-A, September 7, 1948) authorizing the Board
of Patents and Standards of the Japanese Government to register ap-
plications for patents by persons outside of Japan in accordance
with the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial
2
Property. Also enclosed is a copy of a press release dated Septem-
ber 14, 1948, issued by this Headquarters in explanation of SCAPIN
5981-A.
Prior to the issuance of SCAPIN 598l-A, the Japanese Government
had been instructed by this Headquarters not to register foreign-
1÷%00℃
owned patent s. SCAPIN 598l-A was is sued largely at the instance of
representatives in Japan of neutral industrial interests who wished
to be assured that their interests in Japan receive equal treatment
TO:
with those of Far Eastern Commission and Allied nations, and hence
OFDC
requested that measures be taken to protect their patents in Japan.
FE
Although SCAPIN 598l-A permits registration of foreign patents
in Japan, licensing of these patents remains prohibited by SCAPIN
DEPARTME
OLI
45 of September 22, 1945.
130ST 4 PM
71
Enclosures:
OC/R
1.
Five copies SCAPIN
ONA RESOURGES QIVISION
2
5981-A, September 7,
et
1948, GHQ, SCAP.
1948
2.
Press release dated
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
September 14, 1948,
Rc1)
190 696
PIO, GHQ, SCAP.
854
844.542/9-2348
OCT 13 1948
RBFinn:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Department
ap
UNCLASSIFIED
K
hirs

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
Enelosure No. 1 to Degpatã No. 627 dated 8
from the Office of the United States Politioal
on the subject of: "Japanese Registration of Feradga
GLNLRAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 072 (23 Dec 47)CPC/FF
7 September 1948
SCAPIN 5981-A
MEHORANDUN FOR: JAFANESE GOVERNKENT
SUBJECT:
Registration of Fatent Properties
1. Reference is made to the following:
a. Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file AG 130 (22 Sep 45)
ESS, SCAPIN 45, 22 September 1,45, subject, "Control of Financial Trans-
actions," from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
b. Memoranda for Director General, Board of Patents and Standards,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Japanese Government, 'rom Genoral Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Illied Fowers, Civil Property Custodian:
(1) Fi1e 072 (23 Dec 47)CFC/PP, 23 December 1947, subject,
"Filing of Applications 1or Patents, etc., by Foreigners"
(2)
File 072 (25 Dec 47)CPC/PF, 29 December 1947, subject,
"Registration of Patent Iropertios"
(3)
File 072 (14 Jan 48)CFC/FP, 14 January 1948, subject,
"Registration of Fatent Properties."
2. Momoranda to Director Goneral, Board of Fatents and Standards,
Ministry of Commerce and Irdustry, Japanese Government, references 1b (1),
(2) an) (3) above are hereby rescinded.
3. Effective 1 September 1 48, and notwithstanding the terms of ref-
erence la above, the Board of Fatents nnd Standards is authorizod to accept
and process under existing Japanese patent lavs, applic tions for patents,
utility models, and designs by any persons outside of Japan, with such
priority rights as are provided by the International Convention for the
Protection of Industrial Property.
4. The Japancse Government is directed to repeal the provisions of
articlas 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 of the Wartime Law of Industrial Froperty.
FOR THE SUFREME COMM ANDER:
rtery
R. M. LEVY.
Colonel, AGD,
Ad jutant General.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 627
dated September 23, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political Adviser
at Tokyo, on the subject of: "Japanese
Registration of Foreign Patents."
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
1330
Press Release
14 September 1948.
TO ACCEPT FOREIGN APPLICATIONS FOR PATENT RIGHTS
Foreign applications for the registration of patent property
rights may now be accepted by the Japanese Patent Office and
processed under the Japanese law, it was announced today by SCAP's
Civil Property Custodian.
Heretofore, the acceptance of applications for patent rights
from persons outside of Japan has been prohibited. A SCAP direc-
tive issued today to the Japanese Government removes all restric-
tions on the filing of such applications and permits the Board of
Patents and Standards to register patents, utility models, and
designs in the names of foreign applicants under the provisions of
the Japanese law and the International Convention for the Protec-
tion of Industrial Property. At the same time, a change is being
made in the censorship regulations to permit sending of patent
specifications through the mails. This will permit foreign appli-
cants to send descriptions of their inventions into Japan in con-
nection with their applications for property protection under the
law.
Col. E. C. Miller, Deputy Civil Property Custodian, today pointed
out that, as a result of the new directive, a foreign applicant for
patent property registration in Japan will get the benefits of the
priority provisions of the International Convention. These provide,
in effect, that an applicant for a patent who has filed application
in another member country within twelve months preceding shall have
priority rights over a Japanese user of the invention who may have
filed application during that period. Since most of the leading
industrial countries are members of the International Convention,
this means that inventors in those countries may obtain the protec-
tion of a Japanese patent on inventions filed for registration else-
where within the past twelve months.
As a result of this important forward step in property adminis-
tration, recently patented inventions may now be introduced into
Japan, Colonel Miller pointed out, to the benefit of the nation's
economy and with full protection to the foreign inventor. It is
axpected that many such inventors will seek this protection now in
order that they may later enter into licensing agreements with
Japaneso manufacturers.
The Deputy Civil Property Custodian, however, stated that under
existing Japanese law no priority rights can be granted to appli-
cants who filed in their home countries more than twelve months
prior to filing in Japan, nor can such applicants be granted reg-
istration under this law if a foreign patent was issued and
published

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Tokyo's 627,
September 23, 1948.
- 2 -
published more than 12 months prior to application in Japan. No
change in these rules has been made by SCAP's new patent property
directive. Officials of the Japanese Patent Office expressed
their enthusiastic approval of SCAP's action and announced their
intention to resume exchange of official publications with the
patent offices of other countries throughout the world.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
AMERIGAN CHEYIGAL PAINT COMPANT
is assigned to
GENERAL OFFICES AND FACTORY
RECEIVED
6335 PALMER AVE.,EAST
CANADA
DETROITH, MICH.
AMBLER,PA.
OCT261948
RE
SHP 30 1948
DEPI.  SEATE
September 29, 1948
D/R
U. S.Department of State
894.542/9-2948
Washington (25),
D. C.
Attention: Commercial Division
Dear Sirs:
We have been informed that it is now possible to apply for pat-
ents in Japan and would appreciate your having this fact confirmed.
We have also been informed that the Deputy Civil Property Cus-
todian has stated that under existing Japanese laws no priorty rights can
be granted to applicants who filed in their home country more than twelve
months prior to filing in Japan. Additionally, applicants cannot be granted
registration of a patent if a foreign patent was issued and published more
than twelve prior to the application in Japan. If this is true, it would
place American business interest in Japan in a position to sustain consid-
erable loss on inventions made during the war years. In view of this, we
would greatly appreciate any information that you can give us concerning
patents and patent rights in Japan atthe present time and also the proper
channels to be followed in applying for Japanese patent protection.
Very truly yours,
AMERICAN CHEMICAL PAINT COMPANY
INTERNATIONAL RESOURRES DIVISION
007 1948
R.WGANNON
894,542/9-2948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RWG:AC
S
OFFICE OF
INTEGRATIUAL  PLIGY
IRTEGNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
LA
Anal.
1948
00T31948
X
Rev.
DEPARTNT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Cot.
Dist.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
3038
OCT2619
In reply refer to
IR 894.542/9-2948
894.
My dear Mr. Gannon:
.542/9-2948
I refer to your letter of September 29, 1948 request-
ing certain information concerning the present status of
natent applications for foreigners in Japan.
In confirmation of your understending that it is
now possible for you to apply for petent protection in
Japan, I am attaching a cony of a press release on the
subject r cently issued by the occupation authorities
in Tokyo.
This document also confirms your information that
at the nresent time no Convention nriority rights can
be granted to aplicants who have filed in other countries
more than twelve months prior to filing in Japan. A
program is now before the Far Eastern Commission for its
approval which would permit restoration to foreign owners
of patents that were seized or otherwise invalidated
CS/A
curing the war and would permit foreign nationals to
file in Japan on the basis of first filings abroad made
less than a year before the start of the wer with Japan.
It is anticipated that implementation of this program by
the occupation authorities will be possible by the end
of the year.
With respect to your ststement that a patent cannot
f
be granted to a foreign anplicant if a foreign patent
1542
was issued and published more than twelve months prior
to the anplication in Japan, this would of course be true
ODH
at
b
Mr. R. . Gannon,
294
American Chemical Paint Company,
Ambler,Pennsylvania.
8
217

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
at present, under the provisions of the Japanese Patent
Law, if the publication had become available in Japan.
However, it is inevitable that some length of time will
elapse after an application for patent is filed in Japan
before the Patent Office, in its consideration of the
application, would raise this question. It will in all
probability be possible prior to that time for a foreign
applicant to apply for the extension of priority described
above.
I have delayed this reply, hoping to receive the
answer to your question as to the proper channels to be
followed in making patent applications. As of the present
time, however, the Denartment of the Army has not received
the pertinent information from the occupation authorities.
As soon as we have heard from them, I shall write you
further.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
Enclosure:
Press Release 1330,
14 Sentember 1948.
iTPRoy
Am
R<1)
JWA
ITP:IR:ReDixon:s1
L/E
0
10-19-48
OR
OCT 26 1948 P.M.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
Thirty-Fiftb NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE-CONVENTION, New York City, November &, 9. 10—1948
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
111 BROADWAY • NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
Telephone: Digby 9.2720
Cable Address. NAPTRAC
October 13, 1948
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary for Occupied Areas
Department of State
New State Building
Room 4033
Washington, D. C.
Subject: The Industrial Property
Situation in Japan
814
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
894.542/10-1348
Subsequent to your letter of September 20, representatives
of the Council met with representatives of the Department of State in
xx
Washington on September 24. The Council delegation headed by W. E. F.
Bradley, Chairman of the Industrial Property Committee, NFTC, included
Messrs. A. T. Brown of the Japan Committee, NFTC, and E. L. Behr, Jr.,
NFTC. Representatives of the Department were Messrs. Geoffrey W. Lewis,
890
Roger C. Dixon and R. Burr Smith. There is attached a statement con-
firming the recommendations presented verbally at the meeting.
Our representatives were given to understand that the Far
East Commission is now actively considering the question of Japanese
industrial property and the impression was gained that any action beyond
that authorized by SCAP's directive of September 7 may not be expected
pending the decisions of the Far East Commission and the issuance by the
Commission of a directive to SCAP.
The directive of September 7 meets only one of the recom- 
mendations advanced by our Committee, namely, that patent applications of
foreign nationals are now to be accepted and processed. In the judgment
S
of our Committee the other recommendations could be carried out by SCAP
without the delay which we fear will result through action to reach unani-
mous agreement within the Commission. It is the opinion of our Committee
B
that its recommendations are fair and reasonable to the nationals of all
member nations of the Far East Commission and, therefore, present no
ground for dissent within the Commission. We are not informed as to what
other issues relating to patents and trademarks are on the agenda of the
Commission and it is possible that subjectsof a controversial nature may
894.542/10-1348
postpone for some months any further clarification in the Japanese
situation. If such be the case we suggest that, in the interest of the
United States economic policy toward Japan, SCAP be authorized to act
along the line of our recommendations to clarify the Japanese industrial
property situation. This is one of the major considerations associated
with the return of American industry to its prewar status in Japan.
We will be very glad to have your reaction to this proposal.
NOV 12 1948
INTERNATIONAL RES
Sincerely yours,
FILED
00T
Robert F. Loree
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
Chairman of the Board
22439

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
ÑATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
111 BROADWAY • NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
Telephone: Digby 9.2720
Coble Address. NAPTRAC
Ostober 7, 1948
Ref. No. M-1014
JAPANESE PATENTS. TRADEMARKS AND MARKS OF ORIGIN
Recommendations submitted to Representatives of the Depertment of
State by Representatives of the Industrial Property Committee. HFTC,
At a Meeting in Washington on September 24. 1948
Patents
The following recommendations were made in connection with patents:
1. That the Japanese Patent Office be reestablished to accept and process
applications from foreigners as well as from Japanese nationals.
2. That the term of all patents in force on December 7, 194l be extended
for a period of approximately 7 years.
3. That priority rights in effect December 7, 194l be extended for 7 years
plus an additional period of approximately 9 months.
4. That all patents cancelled by Japanese war legislation be reinstated.
5. That all taxes for the period December 7, 194l to December 1, 1948 be
waived.
6. That no compulsory licensing or any other plan for diminishing the value
of the right "to exclude" be enacted.
7. That foreigners have restored to them the right to enter into licensing
agreements and technical service agreements with Japanese nationals or
to resume or modify agreements existing on December 7, 1941.
8. On the assumption that there is no intent to carry out any fundamental
changes in the Japanese Patent Law, that the existing law be modified in
the following respects:
a. The unusually severe penalties should be made less stringent.
b. Provisions for opposition proceeding, tending to encourage
litigation, should be eliminated.
c. The requirement for payment of annual taxes, which frequently
imposes hardships on investors of limited resources, should
be eliminated.
d. The provisions for working patents should be eliminated from

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
the law. In addition to the general trend away from such
requirements, the practical reason for their deletion may
be found in the time lag between invention and production
on any given product.
Country of Origin Markings on Goods Exported from Japan
On February 20, 1947 SCAP issued instructions to the Japanese govern-
ment as follows:
1. The Imperial Japanese Government is hereby directed to take
immediate steps to insure that every article prepared for ex-
port after 15 days of receipt of this Directive, the imediate
container thereof and the outside package will be marked, stamped,
branded or labeled in legible English with the words "Made in
Occupied Japan."
2. All marking, stamping, branding or labeling shall be made in a
conspicuous place and shall be as nearly indelible and permanent
as the nature of the Article will permit.
In view of informal reports from Japan that there is an apparent loop-
hole which permits a foreign buyer to request the omission of country of origin
markings, the Committee recommended strict enforcement of the above instructions.
Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical Information in Japan
The Committee expressed its disapproval of the principle as well as
the procedure in carrying out the Far East Commission directive permitting
technical representatives of member governments of the Far East Commission to
take copies of technical and scientific processes which are of Japanese origin
and ownership and which were developed prior to December 31, 1945. The Committee
argued that the principle involved is highly inconsistent with the announced
policy to restore Japan to a self-supporting basis. The committee also pointed
out that the beneficial interests of United States nationals in Japanese techniques
and patents as well as exchange of scientific information agreements are in jeopardy.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.90)
STANCAHD FORM NO. 4
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE:
10/15/48
TO
IR - Mr. Dinen
th toMm.
FROM :
O - G. W. Lewis
Face
SUBJECT :
Enclesed Letter.
Enclesed is a letter dated Ostober 13 frem the
Matienal Foreign Trade Coumeil, Ime., whieh sums up
the reeesmendatiems that kr. Bradley of that bedy
made at the meeting we had with them en September 24.
Weuld you please propare an apprepriate reply
for the sigmature of Mr. Saltaman. If a substartive
reply should take some time to be develeped Mr.
Saltsman would like to have an interim reply prepared
so that the Hrrt would have some word from the state
Department within a few days, however ineenelnsive
that word might be.
Enclesure:
Letter as stated above.
10/27- Itr drafted %, Debaged. W.il
or ch me thithy
"/2 Feany has it
O:GWLewis mds
0-2743
13- One charge  ade.
tenma in dork t up
11
4224
4442

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.93)
NOV 51919
My dear Mr. Loree:
I refer to your letter of Ootober 13, 1948, eoneerming
894.542/10-1348
the meeting on September 24 between representatives of the
National Foreign Trade Counoil and ofricers of the Bepart-
ment on the subjest of United States-owned industrial
property rights in Japan.
Thank you for forwarding to us the statement of views
of the Couneil which were orally advaneed at the meeting.
I believe these points were fully discussed at the eting.
and it is accordingly not necessary for me to take them up
in detail at this time. The construetive spirit in uhich
the Council's suggestions are offered is appreclated.
For your information, it is antieipated that the Far
Eastern Commission will reaoh a decision on the U.s. Goverm-
ment's policy proposals on Japanese patents in the near
future.
Sincerely yours,
C
S
1
B
61948
Charles E. Saltzman
01.0
Assistant Seeretary
a
68
A true copy of
Chairman of the Board,
the signed orig-
V 3 1948PM National Foreign Trade Counc1l, Inc.
Inal
5
CR NOV 6 1948
111 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1
BAY
FE:NA:RAFearey:pm
ITP
EP
OFD
11/2/48
(Aee ttoched carlir draft for poveons dearager.
PAr
2708

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Loree:
I refer to your letter of October 13, 1948 concerning
the meeting on September 24 between representetives of
the Netional Foreign Trade Council and officers of the
Denartment on the subject of United Stetes-owned industrial
nroperty rights in Japan.
Thank you for forwarding to us the statement of
views of the Council hich vere orally advanced at the
meeting. I believe these points were fully discussed
at the meeting, and it is accordingly not necessary for
me to take them up in detail at this time. Concerning
your recommendation that SCAP be authorized to act In
acvance of agreement within the Far Eastern Commission,
I should li e to call to your attention the fact that,
since the treatment of foreign-owned patent rights in
Janan is a matter which falls within the terms of reference
of the Commission, the existing international commit-
FW8
ments of this Government require it to obtain  policy
decision by the Cormission on this subject before any
action can be taken by the occupation authorities in
Tokyo. However, we now anticipate that the Commission's
decision will be forthcoming in the near future.
Sincerely yours,
1. Comili octiont
licgetel that the For
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
tuliure
Mr. Robert F. Loree,
Chairman of the Board,
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
111 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
R(1)
AF
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1
10-21-48

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
iDlgby 9-2720
TO MEMBERS OF
:NAFTRAC
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL,
111 BROADWAY · NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
October 4, 1948
JAPANESE PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND MARKS OF ORIGIN
Progress Report By Industrial Property Committee, NFTC
Background of Committee Action
Early in 1948 the NFTC Industrial Property Committee began discussions with the
Department of State with the object of clarifying the patent and trademark situation in
Japan. In addition to seeking protection of United States interests, the Committee urged
early resumption of the acceptance and processing of patent applications of foreign nation-
als, a privilege denied by the Japanese War Time Law on Industrial Property. (See Attach-
ment A)
In the course of a conference with the Under Secretary of the Army and the Assis-
tant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas, late in July, arrangements were made for further
detailed discussion and presentation of the Committee's views.
Recent Developments
On August 3l recommendations of the Committee were submitted formally to the De-
partment of State and on September 24 representatives of the Committee met in Washington
with the Officers of the State Department and discussed these recommendations which were
as follows:
1. That the Japanese Patent Office be reestablished to accept and process
applications from foreigners as well as from Japanese nationals.
2. That the terms of all patents in force on December 7, 1941 be extended
for a period of approximately 7 years.
3. That priority rights in effect December 7, 1941 be extended for 7 years
plus an additional period of approximately 9 months.
4. That all patents cancelled by Japanese war legislation be reinstated.
5. That all taxes for the period December 7, 1941 to December 1, 1948 be
waived.
6.
That no compulsory licensing or any other plan for diminishing the value
of the right "to exclude."
7. That foreigners have restored to them the right to enter into licensing
agreements and technical service agreements with Japanese nationals or
to resume or modify agreements existing on December 7, l941.
While it is understood that there is no intention in government circles
to carry out any fundamental changes in the Japanese Patent Law, the
Committee has recommended that the law be modified in the following
respects:
480
NOTE: This bulletin to members is not for publication or redistribution.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
a. The unusually severe penalties should be made less stringent.
b.
Provisions for opposition proceeding, tending to encourage
litigation, should be eliminated.
C.
The requirement for payment of annual taxes, which frequently
imposes hardships on investors of limited resources, should
be eliminated.
a.
The provisions for working patents should be eliminated from
the law. In addition to the general trend away from such
requirements, the practical reason for their deletion may
be found in the time lag between invention and production
on any given product.
The day before the September 24 meeting word reached the Committee
from J pan that SCAP (Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers) had issued a
directive to the Japanese government on September 7 changing the Japanese
patent and trademark situation. Copy of this directive has since been re-
ceived and is attached hereto. (See Attachment B). Copy of SCAP press release
of September 14 is also attached. (See Attachment C).
Future Program
The SCAP directive of September 7, while representing some progress,
does not meet all of the conditions set forth in the eight-point program out-
lined above end it is the intention of the Committee to continue its negoti-
ations with the Tepartment of State in the hopes of achieving its aims. The
Committee's opinion is that the action it has recommended does not present
serioue complications nor ground for dissent within the Far East Commission
and could be carried out in a relatively simple manner. However, it is under-
stood that the whole problem of the rights of foreigners in Japanese patents
and trademarks, including highly technical considerstions with respect to in-
fringements, misuse, claims, etc. is now being discussed in the Fer East Com-
mission and for that reason the Committee gained the impression that no further
action in broadening or extending SCAP directive of September 7 may be expected
pending a directive from the Far East Commission several months hence. It is
the opinion of the Committee that this delay is rather serious and an effort
will be made to bring about direct action on the part of SCAP.
Other Matters Before the Committee
Country of Origin Markings on Goods Exported from Japan
On February 20, 1947 SCAP issued instructions to the Japanese govern-
ment as follows:
The Imperial Japanese Government is hereby directed to take
immediate steps to insure that every article prepared for ex-
port after 15 days of receipt of this Directive, the immediate
container thereof and the outside package will be marked, stamped,
branded or labeled in legible English with the words "Made in
Occupied Japan."
2.
All marking, stamping, branding or labeling shall be made in a
conspicuous place and shall be as nearly indelible and permanent as
the nature of the Article will permit.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
In view of informal reports from Japan that there is an apparent loop-
hole which permits a foreign buyer to request the omission of country of origin
markings, the Committee has taken this up with the Department of State urging
strict enforcement of the above instructions and the State Department has agreed
to investigate the situation.
Access to Japanese Scientific and Technical Information in Japan
The Committee has expressed its disapproval of the principle as well as
the procedure in carrying out the Far East Commission directive permitting tech-
nical representatives of member governments of the Far East Commission to take
copies of technical and scientific processes which are of Japanese origin and
ownership and which were developed prior to December 31, 1945. The Committee has
argued that the principle involved is highly inconsistent with the announced
policy to restore Japan to a self-supporting basis and that the beneficial in-
terests of United States nationals in Japanese techniques and patents as well
as exchange of scientific information agreements are in jeopardy.
#/////#

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
(Unofficial Translation)
Attachment A to Bulletin No. 1543
THE WARTIME LAW OF INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY
(Law No. 21 of Year 1917)
Article I. Patents or registration of industrial properties applied for
or requested by an enemy person shall be suspended during the war-time.
In case an invention, model or design under application or
requisition as provided for in the previous paragraph comes to fall under
any one of the following cases, no patent or registration shall be per-
mitted for such application or requisition:
1. Known openly or used openly in the domain of the Japanese Empire:
2. Described to such an extent as to be easily applied in a publication
circulated in the domain of the Japanese Empire.
Article 2. No enemy person may claim for a hearing or a complaint hearing, or
bring a suit against a complaint.
Article 3. No enemy person may claim the priority right as provided for the
Article 4 of the International Convention for Protection of Industrial
Properties for the right of patent originated during the war-time.
Article 4. The patent or the registration of trade mark belonging to an
enemy person may be cancelled according to the provisions of the or-
dinances, in case it is required on account of the military or public
necessity due to the situation.
Article 5. A person, who has been so licensed, may use exclusively a patent
or an invention which belongs to an enemy person. This applies also to
such patents or inventions which have been cancelled in accordance with
the provision of the preceding article.
The duration of the right of exclusive use as provided for in the
preceding paragraph shall be for the period fixed within the remaining
period of the right of patent concerned.
Necessary matters pertaining to the right of exclusive use shall
be provided for by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 6. No trade mark, which is the same with or similar to the trade mark
the registration of which has been cancelled according to the provisions
of Article 4 and is to be used for the same commodity, shall be registered.
Article 7. Provisions in the preceding six articles shall apply with necessary
modifications to an application, a requisition, a suit, a right of patent
or a right of trade mark of a person other than that of an enemy, should
the interests thereof be enjoyed mainly by an enemy person.
Article 8. Matters necessary at the termination of the war shall be provided
for by an Imperial ordinance.
Article 9. Any person who has tresspassed on the right of exclusive use under
this law shall be punished with penal servitude not longer than five years
or with a fine not more than one thousand yen.
----End----

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Attachment B to Bulletin No. 1543
AGO72 (23pec47) CPC/FP
7 September 1948
SCAPIN 5981-A
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Registration of Patent Properties.
1. Reference is made to the following:
a) Memorandum for the Japanese Government, file AGl30(22 Sep 45)
ESS, SCAPIN45, 22 September 1945, subject, "Contro1 of Financial
Transaction from GHQ, SCAP.
b)
Memoranda for Director General, Board of Patents and Standards,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Japanese Government, from
GHQ, SCAP, CPC:
(1) File 072(23 Dec. 47)CPC/PP, 23 December 1947, subject, "Fil-
ing of Applications for Patents, etc., by Foreigners."
(2) File 072(29 Dec. 47)CPC/PP, 29 December 1947, subject, "Reg-
istration of Patent Properties."
(3) File 072(14 Jan 48)CPC/PP, 14 January 1948, subject, "Reg-
istration of Patent Properties."
2. Memoranda to Director General, Board of Patents and Standards, 1b (1),
(2), and (3) above are hereby rescinded.
3.
Effective 1 September 1948, and notwithstanding the terms of reference
la above, the Board of Patents and Standards is authorized to accept
and process under existing Japanese patent laws, applications for
patents, utility models, and designs by persons outside of Japan, with
such priority rights as are provided by the International Convention
for the protection of industrial property.
4。
The Japanese Government is directed to repeal the provisions of Art-
icles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 of the Wartime Law of Industrial Property.
FOr THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
Attachment C to Bulletin 1543
Statement issued September 14, 1948
By Public Relations Office, G.H.Q. Toyko
Applications Accepted Here For Foreign Patent Rights
Foreign applications for the registration of patent property rights may
now be accepted by the Japanese Patent Office and processed under the Jap-
anese law, it was announced yesterday by SCAP's Civil Property Custodian.
Heretofore, the acceptance of applications for patent rights from per-
sons outside of Japan has been prohibited. A SCAP directive issued Tuesday
to the Japanese Government removes all restrictions on the filing of such
applications and permits the Board of Patents and Standards to register
patents, utility models and designs in the names of foreign applicants under
the provisions of the Japanese law and the International Convention for the
Protection of Industrial Property. At the same time a change is being made
in the censorship regulations to permit sending of patent specification:
through the mails. This will permit foreign applicants to send descriptions
of their inventions into Japan in connection with their applications for
property protection under the law.
Col. E. C. Miller, Deputy Civil property custodian, pointed out that,
as a result of the new directive, a foreign applicant for patent property
registration in Japan will get the benefits of the priority provisions of
the International Convention. These provide, in effect, that an applicant
for a patent who has filed application in another member country within 12
months preceding shall have priority rights over a Japanese user of the in-
vention who may have filed application during the period. Since most of the
leading industrial countries are members of the International Convention, this
means that inventors in those countries may obtain the protection of a Jap-
anese patent on inventions filed for registration elsewhere within the past
12months.
As a result of this important forward step in property administration,
recently patented inventions may now be introduced into Japan, Colonel Miller
pointed out, to the benefit of the nation's economy and with full protection
to the foreign inventor. It is expected that many such inventors will seek
this protection now in order that they may later enter into licensing agree-
ments with Japanese manufacturers.
The Deputy Civil Property Custodian, however, stated that under existing
Japanese law no priority rights can be granted to applicants who filed in
their home countries more than 12 months prior to filing in Japan, nor can
such applicants be granted registration under this law if a foreign patent
was issued and published more than 12 months prior to application in Japan.
No change in these rules han been made by SCAp's new patent property dir-
ective. Officials of the Japanese Patent Office expressed their enthusiastic
approval of SCAP's action and announced their intention to resume exchange
of official publications with the patent offices of other countries through-
out the world.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
NFTC Ref. No. M-1215
December 28, 1948
NFTC Memorandum
on
Comments by SCAP
Relative to Japanese Patents
A conference attended by members of the staff of SCAP and others,
Brigadier General J. W. O'Brien, U.S.A., presiding, was held in Tokyo on
October 19, 1948 to consider recommendations concerning Japanese patents, trade
marks, and marks of origin, set forth in NFTC Bulletin No. 1543, a copy of which
is attached.
Certain points were raised by SCAP representatives on which NFTC has
been requested to comment further. Following are the points raised by SCAP, and
NFTC replies to these questions and comments.
SCAP'S COMMENT CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #2
In regard to Recommendation #2 under "Recent Development" of the Bulle-
tin, it was stated that some of the patents in force on 7 December l941 had been
maintained in force during the war. It was explained that some Japanese patents
owned by foreign nationals had been cancelled, some had lapsed due to non-pay-
ment of fees, etc., but there were cases where annual fees had either been paid
in lump sum before the war or had been paid by Japanese attorneys and others dur-
ing the war. SCAP representative asked if the recommendation was intended to in-
clude the still existing patents.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
Yes, the recommendation is intended to include still existing patents.
A period from December 7, 194l until the present time, (or approximately 7 years)
should be excluded from the normal term of rights in industrial property which
were in force in Japan on December 7, 1941, or which are recognized or establish-
ed under Recommendation #3 of NFTC Bulletin 1543 and belong to any of the allied
or associated powers or their nationals. The normal duration of such rights shall
be deemed to be automatically extended in Japan for a further term of 7 years.
The term "belong to" as used above, includes patents in which allied or associated
powers or their nationals had a legal, equitable, or reversionary interest.
SCAP'S COMMENTS CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #6
With regard to Recommendation #6, it was asked if it were intended to
oppose the introduction of any extension of the existing compulsory licensing
system in Japan or whether it was intended that this existing system should be
eliminated. A SCAP representative explained that many countries have compulsory
licensing provisions similar to those which appear in Japanese law and that it

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
was assumed that the recommendation related to any extension beyond this system,
such as providing for mandatory non-exclusive licensing.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
Provisions for compulsory licensing of a patent, if the patent is not
worked within three years after grant, appear in the patent laws of several for-
eign countries. Results in these countries show that very few compulsory licen-
ses have been granted. Any form of compulsory licensing is believed undesirable
particularly for individual inventors or small manufacturers. For example, an in-
ventor attempting to negotiate the sale of an important invention which he is un-
able to finance conceivably can be forced to grant a license on terms established
by the government.
******
Several points were raised concerning the modification of Japanese
Patent Law as set forth in Recommendation #8 a, b, c, and d. NFTC representatives
have emphasized, in conference with representatives of the Departments of State,
and the Army, that these recommendations were made in the hope that Japanese
Patent Law might be modified to conform with the U. S. patent system, which is
believed to be the most satisfactory system yet developed.
SCAP'S COMMENT CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #8a.
In regard to Recommendation #8a, this seemed to SCAP representatives to
be rather surprising. It had been assumed that American manufacturers would de-
sire even more stringent penalties as a means of discouraging copying of the in-
ventions which they introduced into Japan and patented here.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
The criminal proceedings carrying penalties of fine and imprisonment
seem unnecessary and undesirable in patent law. Recovery of damages, and the se-
curing of injunctions are adequate remedies for breaches of law relating to in-
dustrial property.
a) The severe penalties, including imprisonment for a term of 5 years,
are hardly warranted under present status of world-wide technological progress.
Frequently, an infringer whose technical knowledge is limited, an experience pri-
marily commercial, may not be aware of an adversely held patent. Even an exten-
sive patent search would not insure immunity since it is well know among patent
experts that final determination of whether or not a patent is infringed fre-
quently will depend on the final determination of a court.
SCAP'S COMMENT CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #8b.
In regard to #8b, a SCAP representative suggested that, if opposition
proceedings are eliminated, it would necessitate Japan following the American
practice of making very thorough novelty examination prior to registration. He
said that there is no doubt in his mind that the American practice is very bene-
ficial but at present the Japanese Patent Office neither has the facilities nor
could it afford to follow this practice. If opposition proceedings were elimin-
ated, there would be even less surety than at present that a Japanese patent

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
would withstand attack upon its validity. The spokesman said he did not under-
stand the contention that these proceedings tended to encourage litigation. He
suggested that, in the absence of such proceedings, the more complex and expensive
litigation before the courts would have to be resorted to to replace the present
provision whereby opponents could contest granting of a patent prior to registra-
tion. At present, these cases are heard initially by the Patent Offices itself.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
Prior to the war, the Japanese Patent Office conducted complete, thorough
and efficient, novelty examinations. This procedure should be resumed as soon as
possible and opposition proceedings eliminated from the law. Publication of appli-
cations would be unnecessary except for the purpose of opposition so that with no
provision for opposition proceedings, this expense is avoided. As to the opposi-
tion proceedings themselves, they may readily become extensive, protracted and the
subject of unscrupulous practices. For example, in a number of countries it has
been usual for certain concerns to oppose practically every application in their
line of business, and to obtain free licenses in return for their withdrawal from
the opposition. Under opposition proceedings as opposed to the United States system
of examination for novelty, there is a considerable tendency for examiners to base
their judgment on the recommendation of interested persons rather than making in-
dependent searches and decisions.
The term "litigation" as used in NFTC Recommendation #8b was meant to
include litigation in the Patent Office as well as in the courts.
SCAP'S COMMENT CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #8C.
In regard to Recommendation #8c, it was said that if the annual taxes are
eliminated, it would mean that the initial application and registration fees would
have to be raised very considerably to compensate the loss of revenue. This would
have the effect of discouraging inventors of limited resources from applying for
patents in the first instance. The annual taxes are designed to assist such in-
ventors. A SCAP representative pointed out that they could be regarded as pay-
ment, on an installment system, of those fees necessary to maintain the patent of-
fice. There is no necessity for a patentee to continue payment of these taxes
if his invention is not a success whereas, if the invention is put to use, the
payment of the fees do not entail any great hardship. Taxes also have the benefit
of helping to maintain a pure register of patents.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
The requirement for the payment of annual fees is considered undesirable.
Generally, the amount of revenue produced is comparatively small, and such a tax
works to the disadvantage of the poor inventor and manufacturer.
The maintenance of a "pure register" of patents does not seem to be suf-
ficiently important to compensate for the harm which may result to a patentee who
through lack of funds allows a patent to lapse. In any event, it is difficult
to determine in what respect the payment of annual taxes helps to maintain a
"Pure Register" of patents. Patents receive consecutive numbers upon issuance,
and it would seem that such a register can be more easily checked than one from
which patent numbers are continuously removed or cancelled as soon as a yearly
tax remains unpaid.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Reference was made by SCAP representative to the necessity for such
fees for the maintenance of the Patent Office. It may be pointed out that the
United States Patent Office is not self-sustaining and there would seem to be no.
particular reason for requiring the Patent Office of Japan to be self-sustaining.
SCAP'S COMMENT CONCERNING RECOMMENDATION #8d.
With regard to Recommendation #8d, a SCAP spokesman said that he be-
lieved that the Japanese law provided that penalty for non-working would not be
exercised in the event that a patentee could prove he had made serious attempts
to work the invention but had been barred from doing so for good reason. He said
that he would investigate this matter further to insure that is the case. If it
is, it would be an adequate defense to an application for compulsory license,
based on the working requirements, that there was, in fact, a time lag existing
between invention and production on any given product.
NFTC'S COMMENT:
At the present, there is a world-wide trend toward the elimination of
working provisions. The London Conference of l934, adopted the provision that the
non-working of a patent should not be a cause for cancellation during the first
3 years of registration. It is expected that complete elimination of working pro-
visions at the next international convention will be advocated. Frequently, im-
portant inventions require a considerable period of time to be developed commer-
cially; the average being about 8 years.
MARK OF ORIGIN MARKINGS.
With reference to the country of origin markings on goods exported from
Japan, SCAP representatives stated that it appeared that a request for the omis-
sion of such markings on goods exported would only be approved in the event that
the goods were destined for a country which did not require such markings by vir-
tue of its internal legislation; and, that while it was recognized that goods
might be trans-shipped from such a country to another where the requirement ex-
isted, the laws of the latter should take care of the situation and that it was
impossible for SCAP to control any such trans-shipments.
NFTC COMMENT:
It is believed that goods exported from Japan should be marked with
Japan as the country of origin whether or not the laws of the importing country
require such markings.
ACCESS TO TECHNICAL INFORMATION:
With reference to the comments under the heading, "Access to Scientific
and Technical Information", SCAP representative stated that precaution is being
taken to insure that access is limited to information of Japanese right of origin
and ownership.
NFTC COMMENT.
Because of the vast amount of Japanese technical information originating
in the U. S. and the great difficulty of determining the source of such information,
the implementation of this policy is opposed in principle. In any event, there
should be no extension of the period for such access.and the utmost care should be
exercised in its administration.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
is assigned to
CAESAR&RIVISE
+T
HR
A. D. CAEBAR
1321 ARCH STREET
TELEPHONE
CHARLES W. RIVISE
PHILADELPHIA 7, PA.
LOGUST 7-2010
RECEIVED
OCT 28 1948
DEPT. OF STATE
DC/R
NOV 41948
October 27, 1948.
DaR
State Department of U.S.
Washington, D. C.
894.542/10-2748
Gentlemen:
Kindly inform us whether it is now possible to file
×R
applications for patents and trade-marks in Japan.
894.543
We understand that there has been a new SCAP directive
in this matter and would like to have a copy if that is possible.
Cordially yours,
CAESAR & RIVISE
By
CWR-AL
C. W. Rivise
NOV 4 1948
FILED
CS/A
INTERNATIONAL RESOUBRES DIVISION
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
kepy 1/4 πCD
OFFICE
NOV 1 1948 il
NOV 1 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
844.542
caims
v.v2
10-2748

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
DEC 1100
In reply refer to
IR 894.542/10-2748
894.542/10-2748
My dear Mr. Rivise:
I refer further to your letter of October 27, 1948
inquiring whether it is possible to file applications
for patents and trade-marks in Japan.
There is enclosed a copy of a press release issued
by the occupation authorities concerning applications
by foreigners for new trade-marks which was received
after I wrote you on November 4.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Tu
Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief, International
Resources Division
Enclosure:
Press Release 1330,
12 October 1948
Mr. C. W. Rivise,
894.542/10-2748
Caesar & Rivise
1321 Arch Street,
ODH
Philadelphia 7, Pennsylvania.
DEC
fy
119
RCD
ITP: IR:RODiton:sl
CS/B
11-30-48

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, October 30, 1948.
No. 700
GDASIONE
NORTHEAST ASIAN ALFAIRS
RESTRICTED
(FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
NTERNATIONAL RESOU0GES I NOV - 9 1948
Enc.ath.titr
DEPARTMEAROFSTATE
894.542/10-3048
DEPART F
. SUBJECT: Swiss Request for License Agreement Covering Manufacture
of DDT Products in Japan.
ERNATIONAL TRASE
OFRICE
NOV 17 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose for the information of the Department
copies of correspondence between the Swiss Diplomatic Mission in Japan
A/EJH
and this Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic Sestion of General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, concerning a
proposed license agreement for the manufacture of DDT in Japan.
11
The Swiss Mission, in its note of June 30, 1947, requested
consideration of an enclosed license agreement proposed by J. R. Gigy,
Ltd., Basle, Switzerland, a Swiss firm said to be the owner of a
Japanese patent covering the manufacture of DDT insecticides, and
indicated that the Department had communicated with the Swiss Legation
at Washington concerning the matter in a note of November 4 1946.
(The Rnglish text of Japanese Patent No. 169665, received as enclosure
No. 4 to the Mission's note, is a lengthy document, dated November 21.
FILED
1942, describing the technical details of DDT production and chemical
reactions, and is not included as an enclosure to this despatch.)
21
This Mission replied by memorandum dated August 13, 1947, statf
that this Headquarters did not have authority to approve a license 
agreement of the type proposed. This reply was made at the request
of the Office of the Civil Property Custodian of this Headguarters,
which also stated that by such approval a national of a neutral nation
would be permitted to perform transactions forbidden to United Nations
D 
nationals, and that the lack of such an agreement did not impede the
production of DDT concentrate, which was already being carried on by
Japanese manufacturers.
3
The Swiss Mission, in a note of December 8, 1947, requested
reconsideration of the matter and enclosed a letter from the Far East
representative
63
14
RESTRICTED
ai

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
ESTRICTED
Tokyo's Despatch Mo. 700
October 30, 1948
representative of the Swiss firm, requesting information on the imports,
distribution and manufacture of DDr concentrates and insecticides in
4/
Japan. This Mission, in its reply by memorandum of August 3, 1948,
furnished information on the quantity of DDT concentrates imported
into Japan and the quantity of DDT products manufactured therefrom
from January 1, 1947, when the responsibility of accepting imports of
DDT concentrates and of storing and distributing DDT products was
transferred from the Occupation Forces to the Japanese Government,
to March 31, 1948, and informed the Mission thet the matter of
licensing Japanese manufacturers and the question of payment of
royalties must be held in abeyance for the present. This information
was furnished by the Public Health and Welfare Section and the Economic
and Scientific Section of General Headquarters, and the statement
relative to the proposed licensing agreement was based on the
recommendations of the Office of the Civil Property Custodian.
In accordance with a request of the Civil Property Custodian,
no reply was made to the statement in the enclosure to the Swiss
Mission's note of December 8, 1947 that royalties had not been paid
in the United States on DDT concentrates imported into Japan and that
manufacturing in Japan of DDT insecticides "is therefore also subject
to the agreement of the patent owner of Japanese Patent No. 169665".
This Mission has been informed by the Public Health and Welfare
Section that royalties on finished DDT products issued by the
Department of the Army are covered by separate agreements and that it
therefore appears that the Japanese Government is not responsible for
the payment of royalties on DDT imported before January 1, 1947, prior
to which date manufacturing was performed under procurement demands
issued by the United States Eighth Army, DDT concentrates being
furnished from United States Army stocks and finished products
returned to military depots for distribution.
The Office of the Civil Property Custodian has informed this
Mission that, as of this date, there has been no change in the policy
prohibiting such license agreements, that Japanese manufacturers are
using processes covered by patents held by other foreign owners, or
processes not registered in Japan, without the permission cr agreement
of the patent owners, and that in no case has the General Headquarters
approved a license agreement between Japanese manufacturers and a
foreign patent owner.
It is the opinion of this Mission that early consideration should
be given to the formulation of a policy regarding the use of foreign-
owned patents and processes, particularly in view of the recent
opening of the Japanese patent office to the registration of foreign
patents (this Mission's unclassified despatch No. 627 of September 23,
1948) and in view of provisions now being made for the payment of patent
royalties under pre-war license agreements.
894.5
Respectfully yours,
W.Beorex
W. J. Sebald
(Enclosures listed on following page)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
NSTBLON
Tokyo's Despatch No. 700
October 30, 1948
-3-
at
att
Enclosures:
1. Copy of Swiss Note No.
F.9.3.2.3.-De of June 30,
1947, with three sub-
enclosures.
2.
Copy of Diplomatic Section's
memorandum of August 13,
1947.
3.
Copy of Swiss Note No.
F.9.3.2.3.-De of December 8,
1947, with sub-enclosure.
4.
Copy of Diplomatic Section's
memorandum of August 3, 1948.
701
TBarfin/bk
Original and hectograph to Department
ictoo
RESTRICTED

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch Ne.
dated October 30, 194e from th
United States Political éviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Suiss
Request for License Agreement Covering
Manufacture of DDT prodacts in Japam".
(COPY)
THE SWISS DIPLOMATIC MISSION
IN JAPAN
F.9.3.2.3.- Do.
The Swiss diplomatic Mission presents its ∞ mpliments to the
Diplomatic Section of the General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, and with reference to the latter's note of
May 23rd, 1947, granting an entry permit for Japan to Mr. Bruno
Britt has the honor to submit herewith, on behalf of the Swiss
firm J. R. Geigy, Ltd., the following documents concerning DDT
production in Japan:
1. Letter from Mr. Britt to Public Health & Welfare
Section, Supply Division, Production Branch.
2.
Memorandum from Mr. Britt to Public Health & Wolfare
Section, Supply Division, Production Branch.
3. Patent license agreement for Patent 169665. (Draft)
4. Copy of English text of Patent 169665.
The Swiss Mission would appreciate it if the Diplomatic
Section could transmit the enclosed documents to the competent
authorities and ask them to consider the request expressed by
the representative of Messrs. Geigy in a way favorable to the
said Swiss firm, in consideration of the merits of this
invention for the Allied Forces during the war.
The Swiss Mission would like to add that the same matter
was submitted by the Swiss Legation in Washington to the Department
of State which suggested, in a note dated November 4th, 1946, that
this Mission should request the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers to arrange that appropriate inquiry be made.
Tokyo, June 30th, 1947.
Enclosures:
The General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Diplomatic Section,
Tok yo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
Sub-Enclesure No. 1 to Enclesure No. 1
to Despatch No. 700 dated Octeber 30, 1948
frem the United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Swiss Reguest
for License Agreement Covering Manufacture of
DDT Products in Japan".
(COPY)
Tokyo, June 30th, 1947.
B. B r i t t
c/o. Swiss Diplomatic Mission
The
Public Health & Welfare Section
Supply Division - Production Branch
SCAP - GBQ - Tokyo
Re: DDT insecticide manufacture Japan License agreement for
Goigy's Japan Patent No, 169665.
Sirs:
With reference to recent conversations on above subject and to
the proposal of ESS - Legal Division, I am enclosing herewith a
memorandum covering the issue as well as a proposed draft of the
license agreement.
Since it has been proposed that your Section initiates a
so-called check-sheet addressed to the Legal Division of ESS in
order to clarify matters and to obtain approval of the license
agreement by SCAP, I kindly request your good offices to undertake
the necessary steps and to communicate issues relating to it to the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission who will kindly forward them to our agents
in Japan, Messrs. Nichizui Trading Co. Ltd.
Thanking you, I remain, Sirs,
Yours faithfully,
B. Britt,
Far Eastern Representative of J. R. Geigy S. A.
Annex:
1 Memorandum
1 draft of license agreement
1 copy of Geigy Patent Japan No. 169665.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
(COPY)
MENORANDUM
DDT - manufacture in Japan - License agreement Geigy Patent Japan
No. 169665.
During August 1946, Messrs. Nichizui Trading Co. Ltd., Swiss owned fimm
at Osaka, acting as agents in Japan for Messrs. J. R. Geigy S.A., Basle
(Switserland), discovered infringements of Geigy's Japan Patent No. 169665
on the manufacture of DDT insecticides by Japanese manufacturers.
Japanese manufacturess were warned in November 1946 by Geigy's patent
Attorney. It then appeared from investigations, that SCAP's PHW Supply
Division-Production Branch had sponsored already in May 1946 Japanese
self-supply in conditioning DDT insecticides in order to reduce bulky
imports.
Conditioning started in various plants for 10% DDT dust and 5% DDT
liquid sprays which were produced with imported lo0% teohmical DDT
active ingredient. Later, when distribution and control of DDT
insecticides were handed to the Japanese Welfare Ministry, mamufacturer
began to produce also active DDT ingredient thus following SCaP's
suggestion to arrive at self-supply.
At present the Japanese Government plans production of approximately
300 metric tons and import from USA of approx. l00 metric tons of active
DDT ingredient per year to be conditioned to 10% DDT dust and/or 5% DDT
liquid spray as per requirement.
Messrs. J. R. Geigy S.A., Basle. Switzerland, who discovered DDT
insecticides in 1939 and who are holders of valid Patents in all
civilised countries, possess als: Patent Rights in Japan. Such rights
are covered with Japanese Patent No. 169665 issued on January 30th, 1945.
Japanese manufacturers of DDT insecticides, producing active DDT
ingredient or conditioning DDT insecticides number nine:
Nippon Soda Kabushiki Kaisha
Dainippon Seiyaku K. K.
Mitsubishi Kasei Kogyo K. K.
Ajinomoto Kaisha Tokyo
Teikoku Rokagaku Kogyo K. K.
Hodogaya Kagaku Kogyo K. K.
Kureba Spinning Mill
Mitui Kagaku Kogyo K. K.
Nippon Kayaku K. K.
Japanese Government officials of the Welfare Ministry had already in
October 1946 broached the question of purchasing the patent rights of
J. R. Geigy S.A. for the manufacture of DDT insecticides. Japanese
manufacturers too, knew of the rights of patentholder No. 169665.
However, commercial transactions and contracts between Japanese and
foreign individuals being subject to approcal of SCAP, negotiations for
license agreements for Patent No. 169665 were in abeyance until SCAP
granted clearance for entry into Japan of Geigy's Far Eastern
Representative, see note No. M.4.12.4-De of May 2nd, 1947 from the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission to SCAP's Diplomatic Section and their reply
of May
RESTRICTED

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTER
Sub-Faclosure to Enclosure
No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 700
October 30, 1948
- 2
of May 23rd, 1947.
Since manufacture of DDT insecticides has been done in Japan on a
commercial basis, i.e., Japanese manufacturers sold DDT products in
respectable quantities to their Government and probably also in the
open market, those menufacturers are bound to pay royalties for the
patent rights of Messrs. J. R. Geigy S.A.
As it is the intention of SCAP to protect allied and others Patent
Rights it is requested that Geigy's rights are protected and manu-
facturers who produce DDT insecticides be held responsible to enter
license agreements with patentholder of Patent No. 169665, thus
enabling Geigy to obtain their rightful benefits from their invention.
Inventions which are covered by patents, represent intellectual property,
and coming from outside Japan, should be classified as imports. It is,
therefore, but logical that proceeds from them, in form of royalties, be
allowed to be remitted to the patentowner, either in hard cash or by
means which in no way will be to the disadvantage of the Patentee.
The Patentee should be entitled to realize the full value of his claimed
rights as it is enjoyed at the time of the transaction by the manufacturer
who makes use of the Patent. This is the practice in all civilised
countries adhering to the International Convention.
For the case at issue it is requested to have royalties to be paid
retroactively to the time when DDT insecticides manufacture started on
a commercial basis in Japan, i.e., May 1946. Such royalties in Jen be
permitted in free account and earmarked for transfer to Switserland.
Royalties forthcoming from the date of signature of SCap approved agree-
ments to be freely transferable in cash or in kind to Switserland.
The royalty to be five percent of the wholesale price of the finished
DDT insecticides, i.e., conditioned l0% DDT dust and 5% DDT sprays or
any concentration of DDT insecticides which is admitted for the
distribution to the public and as delivered by manufacturers ex their
works to official or public distributors.
The license on Patent No. 169665 is to be limited for the manufacture
of DDT insecticides for Japans domestic consumption only.
Licensees will be bound to keep proper records of manufacture and sale
and to periodical payments of royalties. The patentowner to be entitled
to control books and manufacturing plants of Licensees through Chartered
Accountants or the Patentee's own representative.
The duration of the license agreement to cover the same period as the
validity of the Patent, i.e., till 30th January 1960.
Differences of litigious character to be brought for decision to the
Arbitration Court of the International Chamber of Commerce only.
Tokyo, June 30th, 1947.
Far Eastern Representative
of
J. R. Geigy S. A. Basle.
To
B. Britt
SCAP - Public Health & Welfare Section
Supply Division - Production Branch
GHQ - Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
MERLCTED
Sub-Enclesare No. 3 to Enclesure No, 1 te
Despateh No. 700 dated October 30, 194e frem
the Umited States Pelitical Adviser for Japas,
Tokyo, on the subject "Swiss Request for Licease
Agreegent Covering Manufacture of DDr Products in
Japan".
(COPY)
Draft
PATENTLICENSEAGREEMENT
for the use of
the process for killing damaging insects or their inter-
mediate development stage
using products generally known as
"DDT INSECTICIDES"
as covered with Japanese Patent No. 169665, 30th Jan. 1945.
1.) Messrs. J. R. Geigy S.A. Basle, (Switzerland), rightful holders
and owmers of Japanese Patent No. 169665, hereinafter called
"Patentee", agree to grant the license rights on Patent No.
169665 for the mamfacture and sale in Japan of DDT insecticides to
Messrs.
in
(Japan), hereinafter called "Licensee", at the following conditions:
2.) That this agreement be subject to SCAP approval for the period of
enforced regulations governing commercial acts between Japanese
and alien nationals, that it be in any case lawfully bimding the
"Licensee" according to the rules as set out by the Internatiomal
Convention for Patents.
3.) That the "Licensee" will recognise all Patents of the "Patentee"
relating to insecticides in general.
4.)
That the license rights granted are nonexclusive and do not include
technical support from the part of the "Patentee".
5.) That products manufactured under this license cannot be used and
sold for the treatment of fure and wools in the processing stage.
6.)
That the "Licensee" will not use the name nor the trademarke of
the "Patentee".
8。)
That the manufacture and sale of DDT insecticides be for Japanese
domestic consumption only and no exportation to other countries be
made.
8.) That the royalty for the license right be five percent on the whole-
sale price of the finished DDT insecticides, i.e., on l0% DDT dust
and 5% DDT spray or any concentration of DDT insecticide which is
admitted for distribution to the public.
9.) That the wholesale price be the ex work selling price at whish the
"Licensee" delivers DDT insecticides to official or public distri-
butors.
10.) That the royalties be paid monthly in cash but in observation of
prevailing regulations on financial transactions as issued by SCAP
and that the "Licensee" agrees to transfer such royalties to
Switserland for the account of the "Patentee" whenever fimancial
regulations will permit it.
1l.) That the royalties be paid on wholesale proceeds of mamufactured
DDT insecticides
RESTRICTER

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
Sub-malosure No. 3 to
molosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 700
October 30, 1948
-2-
DDT insecticides sold by the "Licensee" prior to this agreement
and that the stipulations as stated under para 10.) will alse
apply to such retroactive committment of the "Licensee".
12.)
That the "Licensee" will keep monthly records of mamafacture and
sale of DDt insecticides and that such records and books be
periodically controlled through the "Patentee's" Chartered
Accountants and inspection be permitted to cheek on records to
the "Patentee's" representative of the "Licensee's" DDT
insecticide manufacturing plants and warehouses whenever found
necessary.
13.)
That the duration of this agreement be the same as the validity
of Patent No. 169665, Le., till 30th January 1960.
14.)
That the English text of this agreement be binding and that
English language shall be used too for commanicating records
to the "Patentee".
15.)
That the "Licensee" agrees not to transfer the license rights to
any third party without written consent of the "Patentee" in case
the manufacture of DDT insecticides should be relinquished by the
"Licensee" before expiry of this agreement.
16.)
That differences of litigious character between the parties of
this agreement be brought for decision to the Arbitratiom Court
of the International Chamber of Commerce emly.
Dated: Tokyo,
the "Licensee"
the "Patentee"
J. R. Geigy S.A. Basle (Switserland),
p.p.a.
B. Britt.
in witness thereof signed and sealed
before me:
C. A. Dubois,
Chief, Swics Diplomatic Mission, Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
mclosure No. 2 to Dsepatch No.
dated October 30, 1948 from the
United States Political Adviser fer
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Suiss
Rsquest for License Agreement Gevering
Manufacture of DDr Products in Japan".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
MEMORANDUM
Tokyo, August 13, 1947.
Reference is made to memorandum No. F.9.3.2.3.-De of July 30, 1947
from the Swiss Diplomatic Mission, tranamitting four enclosures
regarding a proposed license agreement for the manufacture of DDT.
Under current Allied directives, this Headquarters does not
have requisite authority to approve a license agreement of the kind
envisaged and it is therefore regretted that this matter must remain
in abeyance until such time as license agreements between foreign
private individuals or firms and Japanese are practicable.
The four enclosures to the Mission's memorandum under
acknowledgment are returned herewith.
Enclosures:
1. Letter from Mr. Britt to Public
Fealth and Welfare Section,
June 30, 1947.
2.
Memorandum from Mr. Britt to
Public Health and Welfare Section.
3.
Patent License Agreement for
Patent No. 169665, (draft).
4.
Copy of English text of Patent
No. 169665.
To the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission,
Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
Emclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 700
dated Octeber 30, 1968 frem sho
United States Political Adviser for
Japar, Tokyo, on the subject "Sriss
Request for License Agreement Covering
Manufacture of DDT products in Japam".
(COPY)
SWISS DIPLOMATIC MISSION
IN JAPAN
F.9.3.2.3.- De.
The Swiss diplomatic Mission presents its compliments to the
Diplomatic Section of the General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, and has the honour to refer to the latter's
memorandum of August 13th, 1947, concerning license agredments for
the manufacture of DDT products in Japan.
The Swiss Mission is submitting herewith a new memorandum
prepared by Mr. B. Britt, representative of the Swiss firm, J. R.
Geigy, Ltd., and would be grateful if the matter could be
reconsidered in a favourable way in view of the information given
in this memorandum.
It would also be appreciated if the figures and value asked
for at the ond of thia memorandum could be communicated to this Mission.
Tokyo, December 8th, 1947.
Enclosure:
1 memorandum.
The General Headquarters,
Bapreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Diplomtic Section,
T_O_k_Y_O_.__
RESTRICTED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Sub-Enclosure to Enclosure No. 3 to
Despatch No. 700 dated Üetober 50, 1948
from the United Staten Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Swiss
Request for License Agreement Covering
Manufacture of DDT Products in Japam".
(COPY)
Memorandum
Geigy Patent Japan No. 169665.
SCAP sponsored manufacture of DDT insecticides in Japan with
imported DDT concentrate.
J. R. Geigy S.A., Basle, Switzerland, represented in Japan by
NICHIZUI TRADING CO. LTD., are holders of Japanese patent No. 169665
covering the manufacture of DDT insecticides.
Any kind of insecticide containing DDT active ingredient (DDT
concentrate-Dichloro-Diphenyl-Trichloraothane or related compounds)
is covered by the above mentioned patent.
Manufacture of DDT insecticide in Japan is subject to the agreement
of the owner of patent No. 169665. Such agreement provides for the
payment of royalties for patent rights.
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Public Health and Welfare Section, Supply Division, first imported
into Japan DDT insecticides and later also DDT concentrate. Whilst
DDT insecticides imported by Public Health and Welfare Section, G.H.Q..
SCAP, Supply Division, from the United States of America were covered
by royalties in the country of manufacture and on the strength of
existing licence agreements, no royalties had been paid in the country
of origin (USA) on imported DDT concentrate. Manufacturing in Japan
of DDT insecticides with DDT concentrate imported by Public Health and
Welfare Section, G.H.Q., SCAP, or other sources is, therefore, also
subject to the agreement of the patent owner of Japanese patent
No.169665。
Manufacturers of DDT insecticides in Japan using imported DDT
concentrate, as for instance distributed by Public Health and Welfare
Section, Gm. SCAP, Supply Division, believe to be exempted from
obtaining agreement from the patent holder of Japanese patent
No. 169665 because Public Health and Welfare Section, G. H., SCaP,
had authorized as well as supervised such manufacture.
General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Public Health and Welfare Section, Supply Division Production Branch,
already during 1946 entrusted two Japanese manufacturers with the
production of DDT insecticides from DDT concentrate, namely:
Messrs. Ajinomoto Company Inc., Tokyo, and
Messrs. Teikoku Rikagaku Kogyo K.K., Magoya.
Imports of American DDT concentrate were made in sisable quantities
and the distribution program of DDT products as sponsored by Public
Health and Welfare Section, G. H. Q., SCAP, induced the Japanese Govern-
ment's Ministry of Welfare to appoint additional manufacturers of DDT
insecticides. The manufacturers not only produce DDT insecticides from
imported American but also from domestic DDT concentrate.
Reference is made to the memorandum attached to the note
F.9.3.2.3.-De of June 30th, 1947, of the Swiss Diplomatic Mission to
RESTRICTED

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
Sab-Emclesure to Daclosure
Lo. 3 to Tokyo's Despatch No. 700
October 30, 1948
- 2-
the Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, relating to a proposed licence agreement for
production rights on patent No. 169665 and it is requested that
quantity figures and value be disclosed by SCaP in imported DDT
concentrate, direction of distribution and manufacture of insecticides
thereof.
Tokyo, December 6th, 1947.
B. Britt
Far Eastern Representative of
J. R. Geigy S.A., Basle.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No, 700
dated October 30, 1948 frem the
United States Political Adviser fer
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Swiss
Request for License Agreement Cevering
Manufacture of DDT Products in Japan".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section
MEMORANDUM
Tokyo, August 3, 1948.
Reference is made to the Swiss Diplomatic Mission's notes
Nos. F.9.3.2.3.-De. of December 8, 1947 and F.9.3.2.3.-Dk. of
February 1l, 1948, requesting, on behalf of the Swiss firm
J. R. Geigy, Ltd., statistics on the import and manufacture of
DDT concentrates and insecticides in Japan and further requesting
reconsideration of a proposed licensing agreement for DDT production.
and to previous correspondence concerning this matter.
The Mission is advised that prior to January 1, 1947 all DDT
imported to Japan for civilian use was delivered to Occupation Forces
depots and distributed through Occupation Forces channels, with actual
release to the Japanese authorities accomplished at the prefectural
level under the supervision of the Military Government authorities.
At the time of release receipts were secured fron the responsible
Japanese officials to be used as a charge against the Japanese
Government.
The distribution of DDT through the Occupation Forces was
necessitated by the absence in the Japanese Government of an agency
qualified to carry out efficient distribution. However, on
January 1, 1947, the Japanese Government was charged wit h the
responsibility of accepting imports of DDT through the Japanese
Board of Trade and of storing and distributing DDT products required
for civilian uss.
With reference to the statement by J. R. Geigy, Ltd., in the
letter enclosed with the Mission's memorandum of December 8, 1947,
that the Public Health and Welfare Section of this Headquarters
entrusted Japanese manufacturers with the production of DDf during
1946, it should be stated that the manufacture of DDT products in
Japan prior to January 1, 1947 was performed under procurement demands
issued by the Commanding General, United States Eighth Army. DDT
concentrate was furnished from United States Army stocks and the
finished products were returned to military depots for distribution.
Although mamufacturing under procuremont demand was primarily for the
purpose of meeting civilian requirements, there was no segregation of
civilian and military stocks in military depots and the finished
products were available for military or civilian use as required.
According
To the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission,
Tokyo.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
Eaclosure No. 4
to Tokyo's Despatch Ko. 700
October 30, 1948
- 2
Aocording to figures furnished this Headqmrters by the Japansse
Ministry of Welfare, during the period January 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948.
1.257,861 pounds of DDT concentrate valued at $814,339.21 were received,
and from this concentrate 6,228,866 pounds of 10% dusting powder and
1.241,835 gallons of 5 rosidual spray were produced.
The United States Eighth Army records of Japanese imports and
exports show that 1,042, 705 pounds of "Larvacide DDT Powder, dissolving"
were imported into Japan during l947 and none was imported during
January, February and March 1948. The difference between this figure
and the amount of concentrate reported as received by the Japanese
Ministry of Welfare may be accounted for by a possible misuse of
nomenclature for miscellaneous DDT products, considerable quantities
of which were imported during 1947.
With regard to the Mission's request for reconsideration of
the proposed licensing egreement, it is regretted that, inasmuch as
present policy prohibits transactions between persons in Japan and
persons outside of Japan involving patent property, the matter of
licensing Japanose manufacturers and the question of payment of
royalties must be held in abeyance for the present.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
rec/R
November 1, 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE ON THE
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
894.542/11-148
Subject: FEC 284/6.
The Department authorizes you to approve FEC 284/6,
Policy Towards Patents, Utility Models and Designs in
Japan, on behalf of the United States Government when
it comes to a vote in the Commission.
Charles E. Saltzman
AssistaritSecrdteny
CS/A
894.542
CE
W
3793
11-148
RC
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1
PTP
EP
L/E(Metzger)
10-25-48
RCD

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
Ac/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: NoV. 4, 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Production of Railroad Stokers
PARTICIPANTS:
r. Charles J. Surdy, Vice-Fresident, Standard
894.542/11-448
Stoker Company, New York City
Mr. Vernon, IR
COPIES TO:
E - Mr. Barnett
Mr. Edwards, FTC
ITP - Mr. Martin
lir. Gorman, Justice
1—1408
Mr. Surdy visited me at his request to state the following
case: A year ago, an official of SCAP wrote him requesting
a copy of his company's catalog relating to mechanized stokers
for locomotives. Recently, a Japanese minister in a public
statement indicated that the Japanese were installing a
stoker similar to the type manufactured by Mr. Surdy's
company in their coal-burning locomotives. Mr. Surdy said
that he wished to assure himself that his company received
adequate protection--protection in the sense of compensation
for production in Japan based upon his company's designs
and safeguards a ainst the possibility of competitive Japanese
C
exports to third couniry markets, particularly China. On
being asked whether any features of the stoker were patented,
Mr. Surdy stated that his company never bothered to take out
patents in Japan because they could not be effectively enforced.
He stated also that his company had agreements all over the
891.542/11-848
world--he mentioned in particular an agreement with a French
firm covering the continent of Europe--pursuant to which
companies were allotted territories for the manufacture and
sale of his stoker. The foreign firms, he said, pay his
company a royalty and receive both patent licenses and un-
patented information. On being asked whether the limitations
with respect to sales territories applied to unpatented as
well as patented products, Mr. surdy stated that the con-
tracts'did so provide.
I stated
1
2793

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
I stated to Mr. Surdy that the Department upon
request woula take every reasonable measure to protect
the interests of his company in Japan, China and else-
where, including assistance in assuring that his patent
rights were respected. I added, however, that the
Department did not consider that those rights extended
to unpatented technology and, indeed, that divisions
of markets based upon unpatented information were in
conflict with the Department's general policies.
Mr. Surdy evidenced a distinct understanding of this
fact and concluded with the observation that he
considered competition to be a good thing and necessary
to keep companies like his on their toes. He stated
that the general purpose of his meeting had been to
acquaint the Department with the situation in the
event that he should ask for assistance in the future.
ITP:IR:RVernon:osm
11-4-48

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNJCATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
AIRGRAM
151948
PARTMENT OF STATE
nen
Jile
1
Z
RESTRICTED
FROM
USFOLAD, Tokyo
ACTION:IT?
INFO
Date of
DC/R
lailing
November 9.1948
L
1948-NOV 15 PM 12
MESSAGE LENTER
7
0
ilec'd
NOV
22:1PM
EUR
NATIONAL THADE
FE
POLICY
DC元
Secretary of State,
oLÍ
CDEPARTMENT OF STATE ash: neton.
894.542/
22
4-220, November 6, 1948.
DC/L
LIAISON OFFICE
The Hconomic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, has requested the assist-
ance of this Mission in identifying a reference made by the United
Kingdom momber of Committee No. 1, Reparations, of the Far Eastern
Comnission at the Comittee's 170th meeting on Septenber 24, 1948.
The United Kingdom member's remark appears on page 3 of the
1
-648
Comittee's minutcs for the meeting of Septenber 24, where he is
quoted as stating that: "The whole roblen of patents in Japan
had been implified by the decision reached on German patents."
Lconomic nd Scientific Section desires identification of this
R
ACTION
decision nd inforaation concerning it if this decision is not
the London Accord for the disposition of German patents. Such
MATION
information would be helpful to EsS in its present considerations
of patent problens.
The Depertment's assistance would he appreciated.
SEBALD
854
DEC10
ReFinn:cg
RLSTRICTED
169
H
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of acdon taken.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
FEC-RESTRICTED
but if there were no more amendments to be presented, then the
sooner it went to & higher level.the better. He understood, for
example, that the U. K. Member might move an amendment to the
peper at a higher level. He could not see thet anything more
could be accomplished in the Committee.
The U. K. Member seid that this paper was based on the supposi-
tion of o certein kind of agreement on division of industrial
reperations from Japan. It seemed to him unwise to pass the peper
on before n decision was reached. He was in favor of seeing poli-
cies passed by the Commission as soon as possible, but he thought
no good would come of passing this paper without reaching an agree-
ment on its basic ssumption, since in that case no action could
be token. The Indian Member said that if no useful purpose could
be served in passing the poper on, he fevored keeping it in
suspension. The Chnirm:n said that he agreed with the U. K. and
Indinn Members that it was a guestion of whether a purpose could
be served by passing the paper to the Steering Committee He would
like to have the opinion of other Members. He himself tended to
agree that there wns no purpose in forwarding the peper. A few
months ago he hod felt that some of the difficulties experienced
by the RTAC in Tokyo could be resolved by passing this paper.
However, he no longer felt that the work of the RTAC depended
upon passage of this poper.
The N. Z. Member said that he had stated in the 163rd meeting
of Committee No. 1 that this peper did not apply to the Advance
Transfers progrem nd that cction should not be deleyed. He now
believed with the U. K. Member that it was unwise to adopt the
paper in a vacuum.
The Secretary pointed out thot there was a special section
reserved in the Weekly Summ:ry of Commission Business for items
not on the current ogends, but still pending Committee ction.
He ndded that items dropped tentatively from the agenda of Committee
No. 1 at present re:
1.
Reporations Claims of Non-FEC Countries
2.
Reprations from Jepanese Merchant Shipping
3.
Reparotions from Japonese Current Production
4.
Settlement of Amounts Due Repatrinted Japanese
The Indien Member suggested dropping the item temporarily
and providing for periodic reappearance on the agenda. The French
Member seid he did not think the item should be dropped, but
should be retrined s the last item on the agend-. He said that
the French delegation was in general agreement with the paper.
The U. K. Member then moved that the item be dropped from the
genda and reinstated at the end of one month's time. Since there
was no objection, the motion was carried.
There wns no further discussion. The item will be dropped
from the agend for one month.
ITEM 4 - POLICY TOWARDS PATENTS AND UTILITY MODELS IN JAPAN,
C1-284/3, /4, /5; FEC-284
The Netherlonds Member asked if any of the Members had received
instructions on C1-284/5. The U. K. Member said that he had no
instructions, but felt there was no need to wait for instructions
in order to refer the prper to the Subcommittee. The whole problem
of patents in Japan had been simplified by the decision reached
on German patents, and he thought that involvement in details should
be avcided. He suggested immediate reference to the Subcommittee.
The Philippine Member supported the U. K. sugges

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
but if there were no more amendments to be presented, then'the
sooner it went to a higher level the better. He understood, for
exemple, that the U. K. Member might move an amendment to the
peper at a higher level. He could not see thet anything more
could be accomplished in the Committee.
The U. K. Member said that this paper was based on the supposi-
tion of o certein kind of agreement on division of industrial
reperations from Japan. It seemed to him unwise to pass the peper
on before a decision was renched. He was in favor of seeing poli-
cies passed by the Commission as soon as possible, but he thought
no good would come of passing this paper without reaching an agree-
ment on its basic ssumption, since in that case no action could
be token. The Indian Member snid that if no useful purpose could
be served in passing the paper on, he fevored keeping it in
suspension. The Chairm:n said that he agreed with the U. K. and
Indinn Members that it was a guestion of whether a purpose could
be served by passing the paper to the Steering Committee He would
like to heve the opinion of other Members. He himself tended to
ogree that there was no purpose in forwarding the peper. A few
months ago he hed felt that some of the difficulties experienced
by the RTAC in Tokyo could be resolved by passing this paper.
However, he no longer felt that the work of the RTAC depended
upon passage of this poper.
The N. Z. Member said that he had stated in the 163rd meeting
of Committee No. 1 that this peper did not apply to the Advance
Transfers progrem nd that cction should not be deleyed. He now
believed with the U. K. Member that it was unwise to adopt the
paper in a vacuum.
The Secretary pointed out thot there was a special section
reserved in the Weekly Summ?ry of Commission Business for items
not on the current ogends, but still pending Committee nction.
He ndded that items dropped tentatively from the agenda of Committee
No. 1 at present re:
1. Reparations Clnims of Non-FEC Countries
2.
Reporations from Jepanese Merchant Shipping
3.
Reparotions from Japanese Current Production
4.
Settlement of Amounts Due Repatrinted Japanese
The Indien Member suggested dropping the item temporarily
and providing for periodic reappearance on the agenda. The French
Member said he did not think the item should be dropped, but
should be retrined s the last item on the agend~. He said that
the French delegation wos in general agreement with the paper.
The U. K. Member then moved that the item be dropped from the
agenda and reinstated at the end of one month's time. Since there
wos no objection, the motion was carried.
There was no further discussion. The item will be dropped
from the agend for one month.
ITEM 4 - POLICY TOWARDS PATENTS AND UTILITY MODELS IN JAPAN,
C1-284/3, /4, /5; FEC-284
The Netherlands Member asked if any of the Members had received
instructions on C1-284/5. The U. K. Member said that he had no
instructions, but felt there was no need to wait for instructions
in order to refer the pper to the Subcommittee. The whole problem
of patents in Japan had been simplified by the decision reached
on German patents, and he thought that involvement in details should
be avcided. He suggested immediate reference to the Subcommittee.
The Philippine Member supported the U. K. suggestion. The N. Z.
Member asked if the U. K. Member intended that Items 5 and 6 also be
referred to the Subcommittee. The U. K. Member said his suggestion
3
Minutes - Com. No
170th Mtg.-

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.95)
FEC-RESTRICTED
FEC-284/10
FEC-284/10
14 December 1948
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
POLICY TOWARD PATENTS, UTILITY MODELS, AND DESIGNS IN JAPAN
As Forwarded by the Steering Committee
(Reference:
284 series)
Note by the Secretary Genercl
1. The enclosure, a proposed policy towerd petents,
utility models, and designs in Japan, was approved by the
Steering Committee at its 128th meeting, 14 December 1948,
and is forwarded herewith for the considerction of the
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION.
2. The vote to approve the enclosure wes 7 (Australie,
Canada, Indic, New Zealend, Philippines, United Kingdom, United
894.542/12-1448
States) in favor to 1 (USSR) opposed, with 3 abstentions (China,
Frence, Netherlends).
3. Attention is called to the fact that in discussing
the enclosure the Steering Committee did not consider the
question of a press release.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
14305
Secretary General
S5
B
aP
29m
844
FEC-28410

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
ENCLOSURE
POLICY TOWARD PATENTS, UTILITY MODELS AND DESIGNS IN JAPAN
As Forwarded by the Steering Committee
The Far Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
the following:
1. The Japanese Patent Office
The Japanese Fatent Office should continue to exercise
its functions, in such menner es will fulfill the previsions
in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 below. The Japanese Patent Law should
contain explicit provisions requiring disclosure in the speci-
fications or drawings of all information necessary to the
working of a patented invention, and such provisions should be
strictly enforced. The Patent Cffice should resume the publi-
cation of officiel gazettes and petent specifications.
2. Patent Rights in Japan
No action should be taken to interfere with patent
rights in Japan which now exist, or which ere restored, or
which are newly ecquired during the period of occupation,
except
2. where the continued protection of such rights
is in conflict with policies established or to be established
in &ccordance with the terms of reference of the Far Eastern
Commission.
b. where such rights interfere with such produc-
tion, use, sale or importstion of products as are necessary to
carry out the purposes of the occupation. In such cases the
Supreme Commander should request the Japanese Government to in-
voke appropriate provisions of the Jepanese Patent Law to the
extent that such action may provide a remedy.
The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to
German-owned or former German-owned patents in Japan.
3. Secret Patents in Japen
The future meintenance in secrecy of any patent in
Japan should be prohibited, existing secret petents should be
published end treated in the seme manner as all other patents,
and pending applications heretofore treated as secret sheuld be
removed from such classification and treated in the same menner
as all other εpplications.
4. Patents in Japan Owned by Allied Nationals
(For the purposes of this peragraph: (1) An Allied
netional is one whose property was treated as enemy property by
the Japanese Government, or whose property rights lapsed owing
to the existence of hostilities hetween Jpan and the country
of that mationel.
Cl
(2) The "effective date of loss" appliceble to the
patents er applicetions therefor of Allied nationals should be
the date of entry of the country of that nationel inte war with
Japon. When the dete of entry into war is clearly inappliceble
to the case of a particular Allied national, as defined above,
the "effective date of loss" should be the actuel date of
sequestration of his petent, or the date on which his patent
rights lapsed).
7

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
a. Patents existing in Japan on the effectived
of loss or granted thereafter on applicetions filed before tiat
date, which were owned or had been applied for by Allied
nationels and which have since lapsed, or have been invalidated
or sequestered or otherwise teken away from such owners without
their free consent should be subject to reyalidation and restora-
tion upon request therefor made by the Allied national owners
within a reasonable period and in a manner as may be provided
by the Supreme Commender. To such cases the following provisions
should apply:
time within which to perform all legally
required acts in connection with restorc-
tion, revalidation, working and/or mainten-
ance of his rights which have not been per-
formed since the effective date of loss.
(2)
The owner of a patent so restored or reveli-
dated should be entitled to cll the rights
and privileges to which any national of
eny country is entitled under the Japanese
potent lrw existing at the time of such
restoration.
(3)
The owner to whom such patent is restored
shoula refund to the Japanese Government eny
sums paid or credited to him that are the
proceeds from sale of the patent by the
Japenese Government during the war.
(4)
Pryment of any special or regular fees that
may heve accrued to the Japanese Government
with respect to such ptents from the
effective date of loss to date of such
restoration should not be required.
b.
Extension
At the request of the Allied nctional owner made
within a recsonrble time (in such form and prior to such date
as may be prescribed by the Supreme Commander), the period of
duretion of eny Japanese patent owned by him on the effective
date of loss or grented thereafter on an application filed before
that dete should be extended beyond its normeal expiration drte.
Such extension should be for a period egual to that from the
effective date of loss to the effective date of restoration or
to the normal expiration date of the patent, whichever is ecrlier,
provided that such owner waives all cleim to royalties for use of
the patent from the effective date of loss to the date so fixed,
and remits any funds received by him or credited to him in a
blocked eccount as royelties for such use.
C.
Royalties
The Supreme Commander should not be responsible
for obteining, or ettempting to obtain, on behalf of Allied
nationals compensation for eny use made of their patents prior
to date of restoration. However, the Supreme Commender should
make available to Allied national owners information as to funds
credited to their eccounts which constitute royalties for use
of their rights from the effective date of loss to date of res-
toration. If the Allied national owner elects to receive such
funds in lieu of an extension of term as provided in pare. b
cbove, he should be entitled to do so on the same basis as other
funds are restored to Allied nationel property owners in Japen.
2
FEC-284/10

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
FEC-RESTRICTED
d. Applications Pending an Effective Date of Loss
Applications filed by Allied nationals for patents
in Japan which were pending on the effective date of loss and
on which patents were not issued should, upen request of the
Allied netional applicant within a reasonable time and in a
manner prescribed by the Supreme Commander, be reinstated as
pending applications in the Japanese Patent Office end be res-
tored to the Allied national applicant. Any patents thereafter
issued on such pplications should be treated in a manner which
conforms generally with applicable provisions of subperagrcph
4 bove.
Priority Through the Internationel Convention
Nationals of countries at war with Japan who had duly
filed in any country which is & member of the Union for the
Protection of Industrial Property the first cpplication for a
petent not earlier then twelve months before the effective date
of loss should be entitled, within twelve months after the date,
as determined by the Supreme Commander, on which such govorn-
ments and natipnals are egain permitted to apply for patents
directly to the Jepanese Patent Office and to obtain legal
services necessary for this purpose, to apply for corresponding
rights in Japan with a right of priority besed upon the previous
first filing of the epplication. Third parties who have bana
fide manufactured, used, sold or leased the subject matter of
eny Japanese patent obtained with this priority should not be
liable for infringement on account of such use but should be
enabled to continue such use efter the filing of the applica-
tion only under the terms of a non-exclusive license which the
patent owner should be required to grent on terms providing for
reasonable royclties as fixed by an agency to be authorized
to make such determinstions. fayment of such royalties should
be subject to cirliceble financiel regulations in effect in
Japan at the time they are paid.
6. Applicction to Registered Utility Models end Desigas
This policy pplies also to those patents designeted
es "registered utility models" and, to the extent applicable,
to "registered designs".

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
FEC-RESTRICTED
FEC-284/11
FEC-284/11
17 December 1948
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
POLICY TOWARD PATENTS, UTILITY MODELS, AND DESIGNS
IN JAPAN
Proposed Soviet Amendments
(Reference: 284 series)
Note by the Secretary General
At the 133rd meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, 16
December 1948, the Soviet Representative submitted the following
amendments to FEC-284/10, Policy Toward Patents, Utility Models,
and Designs in Japan, for the consideration of the Commission:
2. Substitute the following for paragreph 4:
"4.
Patents in Japan Owned by Allied Netionels
(For the purposes of this paragraph: An Allied national
is one whose property was treated as enemy property by the
Japenese Government, or whose property rights lapsed owing to
the existence of hostilities between Japan and the country of
that national.
For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this
paragraph: The 'effective date of loss' eppliceble to the
patents or applications therefor of Allicd nationals should be
the date of entry of the country of that national into war with
Japan. When the date of entry into war is clearly inapplicable
to the case of a particular Allied nationel, es defined above,
the 'effective date of loss' should be the actual date of
sequestration of his patent, or the date on which his patent
rights lapsed.)
2. Patents existing in Japan on the effective date of
loss or grented thereafter on applications filed before
that date, which were owned or had been applied for by
Allicd nationals and which have since lapsed, or have been
invalidated or sequestered or otherwise taken away from
such owners without their free conscnt and without reeson-
able compensation to them, should be subject to revelidation
and restoration upon request therefor made by the Allied
national owners within a reasonable period and in a manner
as may be provided by the Supreme Commander. To such cases
the following provisions should apply:
(1) The owner to whom such patent is restored
shouid remit to the Japanese Government any funds paid
to him or credited to his account which are proceeds
from sale of the patent right.
(2) Payment of any special or regular fees that
DCR ITP Undt
may have accrued to the Japanese Government with re-
A
spect to such patents from the effective date of loss
.tl.
to…date of such restoration should not be required.
9n
FEC-284/11
ist.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
(3) Such owner should be afforded a reesonable
time within which to perform all legally required acts
in connection with restoration, revalidation, and/or
maintenence of his rights which could not be performed
because of the existence of hostilities or of similar
restrictive conditions obtaining from the effective
date of loss to the date of restoration.
(4) The owner of a patent so restored or revalida-
ted should be entitled to all the rights and privi-
lcges to which any national of any country is entitled
under the Jepanese patent law existing at the time of
such restoration.
b. Extension
At the request of the Allied national owner made
within a reasonable time (in such form and prior to such
date as may be prescribed by the Supreme Commander), the
period of duration of any Japenese patent owned by him on
the cffective date of loss or granted thereafter on an ap-
plication filed before that date should be extended beyond
its normal expiration date. Such extension should be for
2. period equel to that from the effective date of loss to
a suitable date fixed by the Supreme Commander, provided
that such owner waives all claim to royalties for use of
the patent from the effcctive date of loss to the date so
fixed, and remits any funds received by him or credited to
him in a blocked account as royalties for such use.
c. Royalties
The Supreme Commander should not be responsible for
obtaining, or attempting to obtain, on behalf of Allied
nationals compensation for any use made of their patents
prior to date of restoration. However, the Supreme Comman-
der should moke available to Allied national owners infor-
mation as to funds credited to their accounts which con-
stitute royalties for use of their rights from the effec-
tive date of loss to date of restoration. If the Allied
national owner elects to receive such funds in lieu of an
extension of term as provided in para. b above, he should
be cntitled to do so on the same basis as other funds are
restored to Allied national property owners in Japan.
d. Applications Pending an Effective Date of Loss
Applications filed by Allied nationals for patents
in Japan which were pending on the effective date of loss
and on which patents were not issued should, upon request
of the Allied national applicant within a reasonable time
and in a manner proscribed by the Supreme Commander, be
reinstated as pending spplications in the Japanese Patent
Office and be reacored to the Aliied national applicant.
Any patents thereafter issued on such applicctions should
be treated in a manner whicn conforms generally with appli-
cable provisions of subparagraph 4  above."
It will be noted that the above wording is the same as
that of paragraph 4 of C1-284/3.7
b. Delete paragraph 5 and change the number of parc.-
graph 6 accordingly.
NELSON T. JOHNSON
Secretary General
- 11 -
FEC-284/11

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
RESTRICTED
A2161
NO.
Washington
Nov. 22, 1948
2288
2288
USPOLAD
894.542/11-648
TOKYO
Reference is made to your A-220 of November 6 con-
894.542/11-648
cerning a statement made in the Far Eastern Commission
X
by the UK member of Committee 1 at the Committee's
P
170th meeting on Septembor 24, 1948.
The reference to a decision on German patents made
by the UK member as quoted in the Minutes was merely a
tactical one intended to expedite action in the Committee
on the Japanese natent paper. He did not have in mind
any particuler action recently taken with respect to
German patents. The Department does not know of any
decisions or other develonments on the parallel problem
in Germany which would be helpful to ESs at the present
time.
Acting
RESTRICTED
CS/A
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
894.542/11-648
SS
Juk
RCD
RBg
ITP:IR:RCDixop:1
EP
auchincloee
11-18-48
CR CLEARANCE
2253
CR
NOV 22 194B AM.
U. S. GOVERRMENT PRINTING OFPICE: 194B 7B27B1

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
: EP - Mr. Rufus B. Smith
DAT: December 21, 1948
SUBJECT:
Japanese Patent Papers, FEC 284/10 and 311/2.
CONFIDENTIAL
Puragranh 5 of Ftc 284/10, Priority through the International
Convention.
It has been nointed out to re that the parallel pro-
visiors of the Italian anc satellite peace treaties, to
vhich the Russians edhered, male no mention of the Inter-
national Convention and that the Russian objection to
paragraph 5 woulc le at least partially met by the deletion
F
of the reference to the Convention. I helieve this would
W
be a desirelle change not only because of the Russian
rosition, lut also in vie of the fact that China, the
8
Philinpines, anc India are not members of the Corvention.
6
4
I recomrend, therefore, that ve support deletion of
the "orcs "w ich is a merber of the Union for the Protection
of Industrial Froperty", starting in the second line of
542/1
the peragranh, ant suistitutior of the words "at war with
Japan". Although the exact wording to he substituted is
rot important surstantively, the wores suggested above
"oulc make the para rarh entirely parallel with the pro-
12-1448
visior in the peace tresties. The title of paragraph 5
should also re changed. "Extension of Priority Rights"
would be apnropriate.
Thresher sees no difficulties with this proposal
and feels it car be introduced in the Commission at the
C
appropricte time.
S
PEC 311/2.
B
I have attempted to craft sore wording to meet the
Chinece position th:t paragraph 4 should be set apart and
the reconmendation concerning it weakened, but have been un- 
able to hit on any wording wi ich would not compromise
our own position, as strongly exnre sed by the Army, that
the grenting of nev rights to foreigners in Japan should be
S
accomnanied by equal trestrent of Japanese abroad.
X
2
In addition, I have talked the problem over with
Thresher in goneral terrs. He feels that  e should go
aload in the Commission  ith the present dreft, at last
14304
until
CONFITENTIAL
48

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
until we get an expression of the Russian view. He thinks
it probable, in view of their past attitude on Japanese
external assets, that they wili onpose the whole paper as
being beyond the competence of the FEC. If this situation
develops, he believes we will have to deal with the paper
outside the formal FEC setup with a view to reaching some
sort of an accord vit! the other countries represented on
the Comrission. At that time we can decide whether and
to what extent we must compromise with the Chinese.
I think Thresher's position is a sound one and
relieve we should supnort him on it, especially in view
of the fact that this is a British and not a United States
paper.
CONFIDENTIAL
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO : FEC - Gen. McCoy
DATE: December 29, 1948
FROM : O - Mr. Saltzman.
donr
SUBJECT: Japanese Patent Policy Proposals, FEC 284/10 and 311/2.
1. FEC 284/10.
The Soviet Delegation has objected to the inclusion of paragraph 5 of
this paper, and has recommended its deletion. It is our understanding that
the substance of the Soviet Delegation's objection goes to the reference in
the paragraph to members of "the Union for the Protection of Industrial
Property," an international convention to which the Soviet Union is not a
signatory. The Soviet Union has, however, agreed to the essential polioy
provisions of this paragraph in the Satellite Peace Treaties. To make
paragraph 5 entirely consistent with these peace treaties and attempt to
FW
remove the basis of Soviet opposition to FEC 284/10, you may therefore propose
the deletion of the words "which is a member of the Union for the Proteetion
of Industrial Property, starting in the secand line of paragraph 5, FEC 284/10,
8
and the substitution therefore of the words "at war with Japan."
394.542
2. FEC 311/2.
The Chinese Delegation has objected to paragraph 4 of FEC 31l/2 and
has suggested either that it be deleted or given a value less strong than
an EEc "recommendation." The U.S. Delegation has discussed this problem
2
with the Chinese, and could, perhaps, adopt some compromise if passage of
the paper were thereby assured. We have disoussed such a compromise with
the British Delegation which originally drafted FEc 3ll/2 and find them
2
-1448
proposal to modify paragraph 4. It is reodmended that, in the event of
the proposal ofaformal Chinese amendment, you abstain from expressing any
view.
CS/B
RPS
BBe
OFD:EP:RBSmith:bcb
NA
IR
OFD
12/29/48
(Da~)
60
JAN 17 1949
14303
FILED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIENTIAL
JAN 7 1949
MEMORA
UNITED STATES MEMBER, FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
Patents, Utility Models and Deaigns in
ies)
1448
The Soviet delegation has introduced two amendments (FEC 28h/11)
to the proposed policy decision FEC 284/10 which is on the agenda
of the Commission.
You are authorized to oppose the first of these amendsents,
which proposes a rewording of paragraph 4 of the basic paper.
With respect to the second amendment, which proposes the
deletion of paragraph 5 of the basic paper, it is our understanding
that the substance of the Soviet Delegation's objection goss to the
894.542/12-1448
reference in the paragraph to members of *the Union for the Pro-
tection of Industrial Property," an international convention to
which the Soviet Union is not a signatory. The Soviet Union has,
however, agreed to the essential policy provisions of this paragraph
in the Satellite Peace Treaties. To make paragraph 5 entirely cen-
sistent with these peace treaties and attempt to remove the basis
of Soviet opposition to FEC 284/10, you may therefore propose the
deletion of the words "which is a member of the Union for the Pro-
tection of Industrial Property," starting in the second line of
paragraph 5, FEC 284/10, and the substitution therefore of the
C
words "at war with Japan."
S
1
B
w 8ith
Charles Virtulich
494.542/
Assistant Secretary
CR
JAN 7 1549
@E.
220
.
Nid
CONFIDENTIAL
go
Cleared in draft with
NA
0: JFRay, Jr:mwc
12/29/43
OFD - Smith, IR - Dixon
4769
m?

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC
111 BROADWAY · NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
Telephone: Dlgby 9-2720
Cable Address. NAPTRAC
December 28, 1948
1949 JAN 3 AM 9 52
MENT OF STATE
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman,
Assistant Secretary for Occupied Areas
Department of State
New State Building
Room 4033
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
Your attention is invited to our letter of October 13, and
your reply of November 5 concerning Japanese patents and trademarks.
894.542/12-2848
You may recall that enclosed with our October 13 letter was
a statement confirming several recommendutions presented verbally at a meeting
between representatives of the National Foreign Trade Council and representatives
of the Department of State in Washington on September 24, 1948. These same re-
commendations were reported to NFTC members in a bulletin; a copy of which is
attached. (NFTC Bulletin No. 1543). A representative (stationed in Japan) of
one of NFTC's member companies informally forwarded this last document to SCAP,
and on October 19 discussed the reco mendations set forth therein. In this
meeting, SCAP representatives raised a number of points on which further comment
was requested by NFTC.
The attached memorandum setting forth comments made by SCAP,
and NFTC replies thereto is submitted to you for the dual purpose of acquainting
your staff members interested in these problems, and enlisting your good offices
to see that our comments reach SCAP representatives through appropriate channels.
While it is highly probable that copies of this memorandum will reach SCAP on an
informal basis through one or more of our representatives in Japan, it is our
desire to adhere to our policy of dealing through the Department.
C
894.542/12-2848
You will recall that in several instances we have urged that
SCAP be permitted to act unilaterally in carrying out certain of our recommenda-
C
tions which might have the support of the Department. While the October 19 meet-
ing gave evidence of SCAP's keen interest in the recommendations submitted by NFTC,
it was made clear that further action must be based on directives from Washington.
In this connection your attention is invited to a statement of Mr. Frank McCoy on
December 9 concerning United States policy towards FEC 230. We would construe
Hr. McCoy's remarks to mean that SCAP has the power to issue instructions of its
own and without specific directions from Washington on measures designed to make
possible the early development of democratic and peacefully-inclined institutions
in Japan.
ONH
TF RNA-IONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
FEB 16 1949
22017
1/14 R
FILED
JAN 1 41949
8
ade
IEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
4801

=== Page 68 === (confidence 1.00)
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
-2-
December 28, 1948
It is submitted that the early revision of the Japanese Patent
Law would likewise assist in the development of democratic and peacefully-inclined
institutions and that unilateral action to that end by SCAP would be consistent
with our Government's policy as we interpreted it from Mr. McCoy's statements. We
should appreciate advice as to the correctness of our interpretation.
Sincerely yours,
Robert F. Loree
Chairman
4801

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.97)
30400.
FEB 31949
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Loree:
Reference is made to your letter of December 28,
1948, concerning the Japanese patent situation.
The Department thoroughly appreciates the need for
early action to restore normal patent relations between
Japan and other countries. To this end, the Depart-
ment has, as we have previously informed you, been
urging expedition of a policy decision by the Far Bastern
894.542/12-28
Commission. Owing to the complexity of the issues in-
volved, FEC action has taken longer than we had anti-
cipated, but the policy paper on the subject is now
in its final stages at the Commission.
SCAP is correct in stating that further action on
this matter must await a directive from Washington.
The parallel which you draw with General McCoy's state-
ment is incorrect in that the program to which he re-
ferred is being carried out by SCAP under a pre-existing
directive based upon a policy decision by the FEC and
not as a unilateral United States action.
2848
The memoranda which you attach setting forth comments
made by SCAP and the NFTC replies thereto are, in ac-
cordance with your request, being forwarded to SCAP. I
appreciate very much your also making these documents
available to the Department.
Sincerely yours,
0.0H
C
S
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
C
Mr. Robert F. Loree,
Chairman of the Board,
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
CR
FEB
111 Broadway,
New York'6, New York.
RC1)
bmy
ITP: VR:RODixon:s1
ITP
1-14-49

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
Executive Office, Civil Affairs Division,
Department of the Army
January 17, 1949
Office of the Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied
Areas (0)
Japanese Patents and Trade-marks.
The National Foreign Trade Council has requested
that the attached documents be transmitted to SCAP for
its information. I would appreciate your transmitting
these documents to SCAP along with the information con-
tained in this memorandum.
We believe it should be made clear to SCAP, however,
that the Department of State does not underwrite the views
contained in these papers which are those of a purely
private organization. In a number of instances the Depart-
ment's policy relating to Japanese patents differs somewhat
from these recommendations.  It might be worthwhile to
point out, for instance, that with respect to the recommen-
dations for changes in the Japanese patent law, the Depart-
ment has consistently felt that the Japanese law is a
basically sound one, patterned on those of most European
countries. We do not feel that changes in the law should
be imposed upon the Japanese simply to bring the law in
line with standards of the American law.
C. V. Hulick
Executive Assistant to the
Assistant Secretary for
Occupied Areas
Enclosure:
Documents to be trans-
mitted to SCAP.
RCD
ITP:IR:RCDixon:s1
ITP
NA
0
4801

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
S1ATF
9
No.
8
ACTION
is assigned to
UNGLASSIFIED
ITP
EN
000
AcIIES
121
JN 12
DEARI
Transmittal of Letters from the Japanese Board of Patents.
894.542/1-449
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose twenty
letters received by General Headquarters from the Japanese Board
of Patents ortlining the newly established procedure to be followed
by individuals and firms abroad in registering patents, models, designs
and trade marks in Japan. The Board of Patents also ofrers copies of
its various 194l-l948 official publications and requests similar
publications from foreign countries. The Japanese Government has
requested the assistance of this Headquarters in forwarding these
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
letters to the Patent Offices of the following countries:
14 JAN 12 PM 1 43
 Austria
Irish Free State
RECEIVED
Brazil
Lebanon
ACTION
ITC
Bulgaria
Luxembourg
8
Cuba
Mexico
COPTES
Czechoslovakia
Poland
To:
Dominican Republic
Rumania
FE
Finland
Syria
Germany
Tangiers
5
Greece
Turkey
Hungary
Yugoslavia.
O// This Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of
General Headquarters, has transmitted similar letters dated December 28,
7n
Commander for the Allied Powers, addressed by the Japanese Government
to the Patent Offices of the various countries they represent. This
Mission requested that these letters be forwarded to the Patent Offices
of Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, England, France (Including
anisia and Morocco), Italy, the Netherlands and Indonesia, New Zealand,
rway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.
If the Depa rtment perceives no objection it is requested that the
nclosed letters be transmitted to the various governments concerted.
A
Enclosures:
Twenty letters, as stated.
NTERNA ONA RESOURCES DIVISION
2
5
8
enc att
riginal and hectogaph to Department
J1+1049
03
JEPARIMENI OF STATE
WAdams/bk
2ile
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
FEB 1 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 20
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Rio de Janeiro.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents outlining the newly established
procedure to be followed by individuals and firms abroad
in registering patents, models, designs and trade-marks
in Japan.
894.543
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it 1s re-
quested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to the
Brazilian Patent Office.
894.542/1-449
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
(Similar instructions also sent to:
VIENNA
Austria-15
Luxembourg-2
SoFIA Bulgaria-6
Mexico 44
AahanCubz 26
WARSAN PolanA-/3
CUDADTRutRAHA CZechoSlovakia-7
BUCHARESTRumania-18
Dominican Republic /3
DAMAsCUSSyria-5
HELSINKI
FinYand-8
TANGIER Tangiers-4
ATHENS
Greece-19
ANkARa Turkey-12
CS/C
BUDAPEST
Hungary-41
BELGRADEYuggslavia-9
Irish Free State-6
DUBLIN
Lebanon-7
BEIRUT
894.
UNCLASSIFIED
AN 28 1949 P.M
010H
Rco goy
ITP:IR:JAreenwald:s1

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.94)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
111 BROADWAY • NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
DeR
Telophons: Digby 9.2720
Cable Addres. NAPTRAC
January 4, 1949
1949 JAN 5 PM 5 03
FOR COOUPIED AREAS
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
894.542/1-449
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman,
Assistant Secretary for Occupied Areas
CF STATE
Department of State
New State Building
Room 4033
Washington, D. C.
d
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
SUBJECT: JAPANESE PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
e
Following our meeting with representatives of your
543
office in Washington on September 24, 1948, and our subsequent
894.
letter of October 13, 1948, our Committee on Industrial Property
has developed a number of questions on which we are seeking the
answers through your good offices.
We attach hereto a list of these questions and look
forward to advice from you in this regard. (NFTC Memorandum No.1219).
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
EnBrem'r
APR1 31949
FILHD
15951
E. L. Behr, Jr.
Vice President
ELB:VB
Enclosure
at
at
auR
INTERNATIONAL RESOUDRES DIVISION

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC.
111 BROADWAY • NEW YORK 6, N. Y.
Telephone: Dlgby 9.2720
Cable Address. NAPTRAC
Ref. No. M-1219
December 30, 1948
SUBJECT: PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS--JAPAN
1. What, if any, Japanese patent law is in effect at the present time:
Is Law No. 96, promulgated April 29, 1921, amended by Law No. 3 of
March 1937 the effective patent law?
2. Can applications for patents, with a power of attorney, be sent directly
to Japanese nationals for filing in Japan, or can such powers of attorney
be sent only to U. S. nationals?
3. What is the procedure for formalizing powers of attorney to be used in
connection with patent applications?
4. Is it required that powers of attorney, and other papers designating
agents for the purpose of obtaining and protecting patents be forwarded
to SCAP through the special Projects Division of the Department of State?
5. Is the Japanese Patent Office, at the present time, making examinations
of applications of patents as to novelty?
6. Approximately,how long after applications have been filed are patents
issued?
7. Can U. S. nationals enter into licensing agreements with Japanese nationals?
8. Are all patents which were cancelled by the Japanese War Legislation being
renewed?
9. Can trade marks which lapsed during the war be renewed?
10. Are provisions being made for the terms of all patents owned by United
Nations nationals and in force at the beginning of the war to be extended
for a period of 7 years?
ll. Are priority rights of United Nations nationals, which were in effect
December 7, 1941, to be extended for a period of 7 years?

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
SUBJECT: PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS JAPAN
Deoember 30, 1948
12. Will taxes on patents owned by U. S. nationals be waived for the period
from December 7, 1941 to December 1, 1948?
13. Will compulsory licensing, and other plans which have the effect of
diminishing the value of the right "to exclude" be eliminated from
Japanese patent law?
14. Are provisions being made to modify the Japanese patent law in the
following manner:
a. Amelioration of the unusually severe penalties.
b. Elimination of provisions for opposition proceedings.
c. Elimination of the requirement for payment of annual taxes.
d. Elimination of the provisions for working patents.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
JAN191949
In reply refer to
IR
894.542/1-449
My dear Mr. Behr:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
January 4, 1949 in which you transmit a number of
questions on Japanese patents and trade-marks developed
by your Committee on Industrial Property.
In consultation with the Department of the Army,
we are attempting to obtain the answers to these questions
and you will be informed when the information has been
received.
Sincerely yours,
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
hp
CS/A
avR
Mr. E. L. Behr, Jr.,
Vice President,
CR
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
JAN 17 1949
111 Broadway,
New York 6, New York.
RCD
0
ITP:IR:J..GTeenvalc:s1
J-14-49
JWA
4801

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
31751
APR 20 1949
In reply refer to
IR 894.542/1-449
My dear Mr. Behr:
Reference is made to your letter of January 4, 1949
transmitting a number of questions on Japanese patents
and trade-marks, and to our letter of January 19, 1949,
acknowledging its receipt.
8
ce.
6
With regard to your first question, the Japanese
Patent Law in effect at the present time was promulgated
on April 29, 1921 as Law No. 96 of that year and enforced
542/1-449
as of January 11, 1922. It was subsequently amended by
the following laws of the years noted:
Law No. 47 of 1929
11
3 of 1938
11
5 of 1938
11
" 105 of 1947
11
" 172 of 1948
Information which you have requested under questions 2,
3 and 4, regarding the procedure for filing applications
and formalizing powers of attorney is contained in Press
Release No. 532 (attached) issued by the State Department
on June 27, 1947. Except for the fact that the Special
Projects Division is now known as the Division of Pro-
tective Services, the procedure outlined in the attached
894.542
Press Release is still in effect.
Also attached for your information is Press Release
No. 52 issued by the Far Eastern Commission on March 28,
1949, entitled Policy Towards Patents, Utility Models,
and
Mr. E. L. Behr, Jr.,
Vice President
1
National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.,
H
111 Broadway,
ODH
New York 6, New York.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
and Designs in Japan, and Press Release No. 198 1ssued
by the State Department on March 29, 1949, entitled
Extension of Time for Exercising Right of Priority for
Patent Applications in Japan. These latter releases
cover the answers to your questions 8, 10, 11. and 12.
With regard to your other questions, the answers
are as follows:
No. 5 - At the present time, the Japanese Patent
Office is making examinations of patent applications as
to novelty.
No. 6 - No information is as yet available concern-
ing the time interval between application for and final
issuance of a patent. Furthermore, this interval would
undoubtedly vary with the type of patent application
involved.
No. 7 - There is attached Circular No. 2 entitled
Foreign Business and Investment Activities in Japan,
1ssued by SCAP on Janu ry 14, 1949. It 1s our under-
standing that, under the terms of paragraph 5(d) of the
circular, United States nationals (and other non-Japanese
nationals) desirous of entering into license agreements
With Japanese nationals may apnly to SCAP for permission
to engage in the specific business ectivity of issuing
licenses under Japanese patents.
No. 9 - The question of the restoration of trade-
mark rights in Janan which lapsed during the war is still
under consideration.
Nos. 13 and 14 - No major changes in the Japanese
Patent Law, on the basis which has been indicated, are
contemplated at the present time.
Sincerely yours,
Mex . Bishop
Chief, Division of
Northeast Asian Affairs
xxxattQnxRutterwerth
Enclosures:
xDiraetorxfoyxRarxEaskernxaffairsx
1. Press Release No. 532.
88
11
52.
—3.
11
11
198.
/4. Circular No. 2.
AP
RCD
EP
LE
NA
4-7-49
fee anzepes
4-8-49
blue

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
and Designs in Janan, and Press Release No. 198 issued
by the State Department on March 29, 1949, entitled
Extension of Time for Exercising Right of Prfority for
Patent Annlications in Janan. These latter releases
cover the answers to your questions 8, 10, 11 and 12.
With regard to your other questions, the answers
are as follows:
No. 5 - At the present time, the Japanese Patent
Office is making examinations of patent applications as
to novelty.
No. 6 - No information is as yet available concern-
ing the time interval between application for and final
issuance of a patent. Furthermore, this interval would
undoubtedly vary with the type of patent application
involved.
No. 7 - There is attached Circular No. 2 entitled
Foreign Business and Investment Actiyities in Japan,
1ssued by SCAP on January 14, 1949. (It is our under-
circular, United States nationalsdesirous of ertering
into 7icense agreements with Japanese nationals may-do
so by making applyeation-to SCapto engage in the specific
business activity of issuing licenses under Japanese patents.)
No. 9 - The question of the restoration of trade-
mark rights in Japan which lapsed during the war is still
under consideration:
Nos. 13 and 14 - No major changes in the Japanese
Patent Law, on the basis which has been indicated, are
contemplated at the present time.
Sincerely yours,
W. Walton Butterworth
Enclosures:
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
1. Press Release No. 532
2.
88
18
11
"198
APR 19 1949 P4M C1rcular No. 2.
SGK
EP
ITP:IR:JmLightman:urg
OFO
L/E
NA
4-7-49

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
iassigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ITP
United States Political Mériser
for Japan
DO/R
Tokyo, January 7, 1949
No. 8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1949
SUBJECT:
Collection of Royalties by Foreign Owners of Japanese
Patents.
STATE
24 M 1 3
E C
2
C
E0
DC/M
The
Henorable
ÉEPA
The Secrgtary of State,
894.542/1-749
Washington, D. C.
894.542/102048
Sir:
1TP
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 700
ACTION
of October 20, 1948,. and to FEC-321 of October 5, 1948, on the above
ITP
subject, and to enclose for the information of the Department copies
COPIES
of additional correspondence concerning the protection of patent
I0:
rights involved in the manufacture of DDT insecticides in Japan.
FEy
The Swiss Diplomatic Mission, in a note dated December 18, 1948,
OFD
referred to this Mission's memorandum of August 3. 1948 (Enclosure
No. 4 to despatch No. 700) and requested favorable consideration of
DE'lK
an application (enclosed to its note) by the Nithizui Trading Co., Ltd.,
as agents in Japan for the Swiss firm J. R. Geigy S.A., the owner of
Japanese patent No. 169665, to collect and preserve in a restricted
account royalties realized from that patent when used in manufacturing
CS/B
DDT insecticides in Japan.
This Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of
General Headquarters, forwarded the Swiss Mission's note and enclosure
to the Economic and Scientific Section and the Civil Property Custodian
2/
of this Headquarters, by intra-Headquarters memorandum of January 6,
APR 15 1949
1948, with the recommendation that the application be favorably
considered as a reasonable interim solution to the problem of the
unlicensed Japanese use of processes covered by the Geigy patent.
In a somewhat similar case this Headquarters has aathorized, also
without a licensing agreement, the limited use of an American and
British-owned Japanese patent by certain specified Japanese manufacturers
in producing equipment for police radio networks in Japan, and has
established procedures for the payment of royalties into the Custody
Account of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. There are
enclosed five copies of this Headquarters' memorandum of November 23,
1948 to the Japanese Government, SCAPIN 6192-A, concerning this
DECLASSIFIED
authorization
NND780069
By H NARS. Date L0Seet 79

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 8,
January 7, 1949.
authorization.
This Mission feels that to continue indefinitely to prohibit
foreign patent holders from entering into licensing agreements with
Japanese manufacturers, while permitting and encouraging the
Japanese use of such patents, unreasonably denies to foreign patent
owners the protection of their property rights to which they are
entitled. The officials concerned with the question, in the Office
of the Civil Property Custodian of this Headquarters, although
recognizing that this problem exists, have taken the position that
this Headquarters can take no remedial action, in regard to author
izing such licensing agreements, until directed to do so by the
Department of the Army.
In view of the trend toward the recognition of foreign patent
and copyright property rights, as evidenced by the opening of the
Japanese patent office to the registration of foreign patents and
authorization to Japanese publishers to enter into agreements for
publication rights for foreign books, this Mission suggests that
the Department may consider the present time appropriate to discuss
with the Department of the Army the question of directing this
Headquarters to permit licensing agreements between foreign patent
owners and Japanese manufacturers.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
at
Enclosures:
1.
Copy of Swiss Note No.
F.9.3.2.3.-Du/e of
December 18, 1948, with
sub-enclosure.
2.
Copy of Diplomatic Section
check sheet (intra-Head-
quarters memorandum) of
January 6, 1949.
3.
Five copies of SCAPIN
6192-A of November 23,
1948.
503
THMurfin/bk
Original and ozalid to Department
d.B.B

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despateh He. 8
STRIOTAD
dated January 7, 1949 frem the Umited
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Cellection of
Royalties by Foreign Owmers of Japanese
Patents".
(COPY)
SWISS DIPLOMATIC MISSION
IN JAPAN
F.9.3.2.3.- Du/e.
The Swiss Diplomatic Mission presents its compliments to
the Diplomatic Section of the General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, and has the honor to refer to
the latter's memorandum of August 3rd, 1948, concerning the
manufacture of DDT products in Japan.
The Swiss Mission is enclosing herewith an application to
collect and preserve in a restricted account royalties due to
J. R. Geigy and Co. (Switzerland), owners of the DDT patent.
This application is submitted by the Nichizui Trading Co., Ltd.,
which is acting as agents of Geigy and Co. in Japan.
The Swiss Mission hopes that a favorable answer will be
given to this request as an agreement of the same nature was
allowed recently in a similar case (manufacture in Japan of two-
way radios on a patent belonging to an American firm).
Tokyo, December 18th, 1948.
Enclosure:
Application in
quadruplicate.
The General Headquartere,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Diplomatie Section,
Toky o.
RESTRIGTED

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Sub-enclosure to Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 8 dated January 7, 1949
from the United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Colleetien
of Royalties by Foreign Owners of Japanese
Patents".
(COPY)
NICHIZUI TRADING CO., LTD.
PAGE
Osaka, November 27th, 1948.
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Tokyo.
Subject: Application to collect and preserve in a restricted
account royalties due J. R. Geigy, S.A. (Swiss).
Applicant:
Nichizui Trading Co., Ltd.,
1 Sose-cho, Kitaku, Osaka.
Dear Sirs,
We hereby submit application as agent for J. R. Geigy S.A. Basle,
Switzerland to collect ro yalties accumulated and due for the use of
Geigy's Japanese Patent No. l69665 covering the manufacture of DDT
insecticides.
1) Resident abroad:
: J. R. Geigy, S.A. Basle, Switzerland.
Manufacturer of Chemical goods.
2) Japanese firm as agents: Same as applicant. The applicant,
as agent of J. R. Geigy, S.A. had been attending since its
ostablishment of August, l918, to the sale of their products
in Japan before the war and have also been working, after the war,
to intermediate transactions with Boekicho as agent. This intimate
relation between J. R. Geigy and the applicant can be confirmed by
the business done, correspondence and or reports which the applicant
made to its principal.
3) Royalties to be collected by the applicant as agent:
(A) J. R. Geigy, S.A. are owners of Japanese patent No. 169665
for DDT insecticides as published on 30th of January, 1945 by
Japanese Patent Office and production and sale of DDT insecticides
using the patent No. 169665 has been carried out in Japan since
1946 by order of the Ministry of Welfare and Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry.
(B) Regarding productior and sale of DDT insecticides in Japan,
the Ministry of Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and
the respective manufacturess are all willing to respect the
patent No. 169665 owned by J. R. Geigy S.A. and also agreed to
put aside reasonable royalties, i.e., the equivalent of 5% of the
wholesale price of DDT insecticides, and are nowreserving such
royalties.
4) Amount
RESTRIOTED

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
Sab-enclosure to Enclosure No. 1
To Tokyo's Despatch No. 8,
Jammary 7, 1949
NICHIZUI TRADING CO., LTD.
-2-
4) Amount of accumulated royalties:
(A) From January 1st, 1947 to September 30th, 1948
Manufacturers
Products
Amount of Sale
Boyalty
Nihon Soda
10% Dust &
￥102,019,743.20
2 5,100,987.16
5% Spray
Mitsubishi
n
8,545,540.-
n
427,277.-
Dainihon Seiyaku
Sundry
48,645.-
2,432.75
Tokio Noyaku
20% Emulsion
17,763,977.50
n
785,563.25
Nissan Kagaku
Sundry
30,782,682.-
"1,311,394.90
Toa Noyaku
n
29,125,319.-
"1,271,802.70
Nihon Noyaku
n
n
30,883,754.30
1,324,557.37
Yashima Kagaku
n
n
16,118,582.-
n
694,698.84
Sankyo
n
n
33,164,418.07
1,498,045.90
Takasago Kagaku
n
9,496,350.-
403,965.-
Nihon Koryo
20% mulsion
n
7,182,204.-
305,523.60
Nagaoka Kuchuzai
2,245,000.-
95,500.-
King Qochuzai
n
3,143,000.-
n
133,700.-
Osaka Noyaku
3,255,250.-
138,475.-
Summei Kagaku
4,599,556.-
188,687.92
Dainihon Jochugiku
x
3,583,000.-
150,500.-
301.957.021.07
¥13,833.111.39
(B) The above royalties are all due after the termination of the
war and nothing before the termination of the war.
5) Time for collecting royalties:
(A) As soon as permitted for royalties due.
(B) For royalties coming due in future, the applicant will
collect periodically at the end of every month. The applicant
will report to the Ministry of Finance for every and all collections
mentioned in the above items.
6) The reason why the ap plicant wants to collect royelties as agent:
It is natural that the applicant in relation with J. R. Geigy S.A.
as stated in item No. 2 should endeavour to protect the interest in
Japan of its principals, J. R. Geigy, S.A., The risks involved in
leaving the ever increasing and accumulating royalties month by month
in the hands of the respective manufacturers under the present financial
circumstances and unstabilized conditions are very considerable.
Therefore the applicant wishes to collect the royalty after getting
your permission.
7) Disposition of the collected royalty:
(A) The royalty collected by the applicant is put in the restricted
account especially established by the applicant and reported to the
Ministry of Finance.
(B) Any and all withdrawals by the applicant from the said
restricted account will be made subject to the permit of the Ministry
of Finance.
8) Other matters

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Sab-emclosure No Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 8,
January 7, 1949
NICHIZUI TRADING CO., LTD.
-3-
8) Other matters of reference:
(A) Manufacturers of DDT insecticides are receiving allocations
of the necessary raw materials of manufacturing DDT insecticides
according to the production plan made by the Ministry of Welfare as
well as the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. As for their
production, the Ministry of Welfare is buying the whole quantity of
the products from the pharmaceutical circles, but as for DDT
insecticides for agricultural purposes, the products are distributed
among the local Association of Agriculture under coupon system.
No free sale is permitted for both.
(B) Besides the manufacturers mentioned under item No. 4 the
following firms are authorized by the Ministry of Welfare to
manufacture DDT insecticides. These are now preparing the necessary
factory equipments and will soon start manufacture of DDT insecticides:
Kureha Kagaku Kogyo K.K.
Tekkosha K.K.
Sanko K.K.
Ajinomoto Company, Ltd.
Teikoku Rikagaku K.K.
Nihon Kayaku K.K.
Hodogaya Kagaku Kogyo K. K.
Yours faithfully,
NICHIZUI TRADING CO., LTD.
A. O. Keller
A. O. Keller
Acting Director.
BESTRIOTED

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 8
dated Jammary 7, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Collectiem of
Royalties by Foreign Owners of Japanese
Patents".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
CHECK SHEET
Mr. Murfin 26-5443
S 503
Subject:
Swiss Mission's Request for Royalty
Payments for DDT Manufacture.
From: DS
To: CPC/FP/PP
Date: 6 January 1949
THRU:
ESS/FC
INFO:
PHW
ESS/ST
(1)
1. Reference is made to the following:
a.
DS memo of 3 August 1948 to the Swiss Diplomatic Mission
(copy attached for info ESS/FC).
b.
ESS memo to the Danish Diplomatic Mission,
130(3 Aug 48)ESS/FC, subject, "Patent Royalties Due
Burmeister & Wain Co." (copy attached for info CPC).
c.
Memo of 23 November 1948 to Japanese Government, SCAPIN
6192-A, subject, "Use of United Nations Patents in the
Manufacture of VHF/FM Radio Equipment".
2. Reference "a" informed the Swiss Mission, on the basis of
CPC/PP check note of 31 January 1948, subject, "Swiss Mission's Request
for Information on DDT Production", that, inasmuch as present policy
prohibits transactions between persons in Japan and persons outside of
Japan involving patent property, the matter of licensing Japanese
manufacturers of DDT and the question of payment of royalties must be
held in abeyance for the present.
3. Reference "b" informed the Danish Mission that "present policy
governing foreign exchange transactions does not prohibit payment of
royalties for foreign patents used in Japan during the period of
occupation" and that the type of payment is dependent upon the terms of
the contract between the patent right holder and the user.
4. Reference "c" authorized certain listed Japanese manufacturers
of communications equipment to utilize American and British owned patents
in manufacturing Japanese police radio equipment, and established
procedures for the payment of royalties into the SCAP Custody Account
in the Bank of Japan.
5. There is now forwarded a copy of the Swiss Mission's note No.
F.9.3.2.3.-Du/e of 18 December 1948, requesting favorable consideration
of an inclosed application by the Nichizui Trading Co., Ltd. to collect
and preserve in a restricted account royalties accumulated and due for
the use of Japanese patent No. 169665, held by the Swiss firm J. R. Geigy
& Co., covering the manufadture of DDT insecticides, and mentioning as a
precedent
RESTRICTED

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclesure No. 2
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 8,
January 7, 1949
-2-
precedent the authorization given in reference "o".
6. The inclosed application states that the Japanese Ministry of
Welfare, Hinistry of Agriculture and Forestry, and respective manu-
facturers are willing to set aside reasonable royalties, equal to 5%
of the wholesale price of DDT insecticides manufactured, and are now
reserving such royalties. The Nichizui Trading Co., as agents for
J. R. Geigy & Co., proposes to place these accumulated royalties, and
future royalties monthly as they accumulate, in a restricted account
under the surveillance of the Japanese Ministry of Finance, and to
make withdrawals subject to the permission of the Ministry of Finance.
7. DS considers that, in view of Headquarters action in permitting
and encouraging the Japanese use of DDT processes without the agreement
of the patent owner, and in view of the undoubted value to the Occupation
of the products manufactured by those processes, every effort should be
made to permit the Geigy company to protect its interest in the matter.
Inasmuch as the payment of royalties for foreign patents is not
absolutely prohibited (Ref. "b"), and has in fact been authorised
without the existence of a licensing agreement in another case in which
manufacture was considered necessary in the interests of the Occupation
(Ref. "c"), DS considers the instant proposal in the absence of a
favorable decision by Headquarters permitting licensing agreements
between foreign patent holders and Japanese manufacturers, a reasonable
interim solution of this long-standing problem in connection with DDT
production.
8. DS therefore recommends that, inasmuch as royalties are already
being set aside by manufacturers, and the question of authorizing
licensing agreements is not involved, ESS and CPC take necessary action
to authorize the Nichizui Trading Co. to collect royalties and deposit
them in a restricted account, as requested.
9. DS further recommends that early consideration be given to
authorizing licensing agreements between Japanese manufacturers and
foreign patent holders.
3 Incls:
1. Copy of Note No. F.9.3.2.3.-Du/e,
with sub-inclosed application.
2.
Copy of memo 130(3 Aug 48)SS/FC
(for info CPC).
3.
Copy of DS memo of 3 Aug 48 (for
info ESS).
-W.J.S.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
GEiERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRELE COM ANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 413.44 ( 17 May 40 )CCS
23 November 1948
SCAPIN
6192-
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNLENT
SUBJECT:
Use of United Nations Patents in the Manufacture of
VHF/Fi Radio Equipment
1. Authorization is granted the Japanese Communications Equipment
Manufacturing Companies, listed in paragraph 3 below, to utilize patents
owned by United Nations Nationals in the manufacture of VHF/FM radio equipment
to be used in establishing the following Japanese Police Radio Networks.
a. 144 VHF/Fi sets to establish a regional-prefectural radio net-
work comprised of National Rural Police Regional headquarters, prefectural
headquarters, and relay stations, in the six National Rural Police Regions.
b. 752 VHF/Fii sets to establish autonomous unicipal Police radio
networks in cities having two or more police stations.
c. 1,452 VHF/Fii sets to establish prefectural National Rural Police
radio networks between National Rural Police prefectural headquarters and
rural stations in the forty-six prefectures.
d. 359 VHF/Fi sets to establish a close in-shore Maritime Safety
Board radio network.
2. United Nations patents authorized for use in the manufacture of the
equipment listed in paragraph 1 above are as follows:
Japanese Patent No. 99854
Name of Patent: A System for Wireless Telephony
Owned by: Edwin H. Armstrong (USA)
b。
Japanese Patent No. 120283
Name of Patent:. Improvement of Discharge Device
Ovmed by: Electric and Musical Industries, Ltd. (UK)
3.  a. The following companies are authorized to use Japanese Patent
No. 99854, reference paragraph. 2 .a. above:

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 413-44 (:17 May 48)CCS
SCAPIN 6192-A
Matsushita Denki K.K.
Dengen Kogyo K.K.
Kawanishi Kikai Seisakusho (Co., Ltd.)
Yao Lusen Denki K.K.
Nippon Columbia K.K.
Toyo Tsushinki.K.K.
Hitachi Seisakusho K.K.
Mitsubishi Denki K.K.
Tokyo Shibaura Denki K.K.
Nippon Musen K.K.
Teikoku Tsushin K.K.
Anritsu Denki K.K.
Nippon Denki K.K.
Oki Denki K.K.
Tokyo Musen K.K.
Yama Naka Denki K.K.
Nanao Musen Denki K.K.
Tonemusen K.K.
Nippon Victor K.K.
Hayakawa Denki Kogyo K.K:
b. The following companies are authorized to use Japanese Patent
No. 120283, reference paragraph 2 b. above:
Matsushita Denki K.K.
Kawanishi Kikai Seisakusho.(Co., Ltd.)
Hitachi Seisalkusho K.K.
Mitsubishi Denki K.K.
Tokyo Shibaura Denki K.K.
Nippon Musen K.K.
Nippon Denki K.K.
Oki Denki K.K.
4. The following royalties shall be paid by the manufacturers utilizing
the subject patents:
a. Japanese Patent No. 99854, reference paragraph 2 a. above:
Royalties in the amount of 2% of the manufacturer's selling price in yen
(non-inclusive of sales and excise taxes) for each VHF/Fi set sold, either
mobile, relay, or fixed station, shall be deposited quarterly in the Custody
Account of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in the Bank of Japan
to the credit of and in the name of Edwin H. Armstrong, USA.
b. Japanese Patent No. 120283, reference paragraph 2 b. above:
Royalties in the amount of 1% of the manufacturer's selling price in yen
(non-inclusive of sales and excise taxes) for each tube sold for use in
2

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
AG: 413.44 (I7 May 48 )CCS
SCAPIN 6192-A
VHF/Fii equipments shall be deposited quarterly in the Custody Account of the
Supreme Conmander for the Allied Powers in the Bank of Japan to the credit
of and in the name of the Electric and Musical Industries, Ltd., UK.
5. a. Proper evidence of the deposits of royalty payments, listed in
4 a. and 4 b. above, accompanied by reports in triplicate, shall be
furnished to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
Civil Property Custodian, within ten (1o) days after deposits are made.
These reports shall include the following information:
(1) Name and address of company
(2) Hame and Japanese registry number of patent
(3)
) Name of patent owner
(4)
Period covered by the report
(5)
Numbe: of sets and/or tubes sold during the period
(6)
Manufacturer's selling price (non-inclusive of sales and/or
excise taxes)
(7) Total amount of deposit
(8) Hame of purchaser
b. An additional copy of this report shall be submitted to General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, attention Civil
Communications Section, at the time the deposit is made in the Bank of Japan.
6. a. These deposits shall constitute tentative payient only and
shall not preclude the patent owners from filing claims against the Japanose
Government through such channels as may be established now or hereafter.
b. Suprene Commander for the Allied Povers authorization, for the
use of the subject patents referred to above, covers only the manufacture
of ViF/Fi sets and vacuum tubes for the purposes listed in paragraph 1 of
this memorandum.
c. Roqucst for pormission to utilize the United Nations patents
listed in paragraph 2 a. and b. above, by companies other than those listed
in paragraph 3 a. and b., will be submitted to General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
3

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 413.44 (17 May 48)CCS
SCAPIN 6192-A
d. Request for permission to utilize United Nations patents
other than those listed in paragraph 2a and b above, the use of which is
determined necessary in the manufacture of VHF/FM equipment. wi1l be
forwarded to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
7. Direct communication between interested sections of General
Head uarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, and agencies of
the Japanese Government/within the soope of this memorandum is
authorized.
FOR THE SUPREE COMMIANDER:
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Ad,jutant General.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM TO THE UHITED STATES MEMBER, FAR EASTERN
Japan (311 Series)
The Chinese Delegation has objected to paragraph à
FEC 311/2 and has suggested either that it be deleted ow gly
a value Less strong than an FEC "recommendation. The U.
Delegation has discussed this problem with the Chinses
could, perhaps, adopt some compromise if passage et t
were thereby assured. Such a compromise has been da
the British Delegation which criginally drafted mEg 3llyae
strongly opposed to the Chinese proposals. It does not
therefore, at this time, that a useful purpose wanld be
by acceptance of a Chinese proposal to modify pare
4.542
is requested that, in the ovent of the proposal of a farm
Chinese amendment, you should abstain from expressing e
271-1349
I vttilice
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
DCR - ITP Un
nd.
CS/B
ist.
ND:EP:RBSmith
Cleared in draft with
mora
NA
0
:FRay,Jr:mwc
12/29/48
OFD - Smith, IR - Dixon
CONFIDENTIAL
4770

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum · UNITED STATEs GOVErNMENT
CONFIDENTIAL
DATE: 1/12/49
TO
FROM
NA
SUBJECT:
NA believes that FEC 3ll/2 calls
for action by the FEC which is not
provided for in the terms of reference
for that body; and that the U.S.
should not support a paper calling
for a "recommendat1on" by the FEC
to governments. This is a matter
of principle and goes far beyond the
scope of this paper.
NA, however, has initialled
the attached memorandum with the
foregoing reservation regarding
the FEC paper as a whole.
SCRETARY
A.S
54
3
PM
CONFIDENTIAL
FE!NA!MWB1shop/pm
4770

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
JAN 311949
UNCLASSIFIED
E94.542/1-3149
No. 47
To the
United States Political Adviser on German Affairs,
Berlin.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents outlining the newly established
procedure to be followed by individuals and firms abroad
in registering patents, models, designs and trade-marks
in Japan.
The enclosed letter is apparently addressed to the
old German Patent Office in Berlin. If the Political
Adviser perceives no objection, it is requested that the
enclosed letter be transmitted to the appropriate patent
agency for the Bizonal area.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
CSE
al
894.542
VR
JAN 28 1949 P.M.
UNCLASSIFIED
1-31.49
RC1)
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
1-28-49

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.95)
Nocard
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
b
Unite
Tokyo, Februar
NC
No. 73
m
SECRET (For Department L.se only)
Subjeet: Permission for Japanese to Apply for
Fereign Countries
XR
A  
ECE
800
de Secretary of State,
4.542
EB
Washington.
800.54269
894.
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a starf studye
Decmber 15, 1948, prepared by the Beomom
ef this Meadqarters in regard to authoriging Japanese nstionals
to apply for and obtain patents in other ceuntries. The recom-
mendatfons made in the enolosed study have not yet been submitte
to the Chief of Staff for approval.
The enclosed study recommends that, although the Far East
Commission is considering this matter in docment SC 3ll/1, this
Headquarters should permit Japanese to file applications for patent
42
in countries which will receive them in order to proteot and give
incentive to Japanese inventors and in order to provide dollars for
the SCAP commercial account from royalties received as a result of
licensing to foreign manufacturers.
This Mission, acting in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section
of this Headquarters, has concurred in the recommendations of the
enclosed staff study.
-449
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Sopy of Staff Study
SECRET FILE
dated December 15, 1948.
503
RBFinn:hh
In triplicat'e po-Dopantment.
RM/R
SECHET
Anai-19
Rev.
6958

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosare to Despatch No. 73 dated
SECRET
February 4, 1949 from the Uaited
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subjeet: "Permission for
Japanese to Apply for Patents in
Foreign Countries."
COPY
Economic and Scientific Section
APO 500
072(15 Dec 48)ESS/ST
15 December 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Staff
SUBJECT:
Permission for Japanese to Apply for Patents in
Foreign Countries
THE PROBLEM
1. To determine the desirability of permitting Japanose
nationals to apply for and obtain patents in other countries.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. Some countries which were at war with Japan have internal
legislation which would prohibit new patents being granted in those
countries to Japanese applicants. Other countries, including the
United States, wdll allow Japanese to obtain new patents at present.
3. In the United States, Public Law No. 320 of August 6, 1947
specifically provides for the granting of patents to Japanese; how-
ever, it also pruvides that any such patents will be subject to any
conditions and limitations which may be imposed in accordanee with
the terms of the Peace conference.
4. FEC document SC 3ll/1 recommends that each individual member
nation of U.N. should adopt a suggested policy with regard to
Japanese patents in its own country. Paragraph 4 of this suggested
policy recommends that Japanese nationals should now be able to ob-
tain patents in all the U.N. countries in respect of inventions made
after January 1946.
5. Radio W87091 of 6 August 1948 sets out the agreed position
of State and Army Departments concorning patents. Paragraph 7B of
that radio is attached.
6. SCAP imposed restrictions in respect of this matter are:
a. CAPIN 802 which prohibits applications by Japanese in
countries other than Japan, except with SCAP approval.
b. SCAPIN 45 prohibits any transactions in the way of
transfers, etc., in connection with Japanese owmed foreign property,
except with SCAP approval.
7. Japanese commodities entering other countries are not at
present protected by patents and are thus subject to unrestricted
duplication in the importing country.
8. There
SECRET

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of
February 4, 1949.
-2
8. There is evidence that many Japanese presently desire to
protect their new inventions in other countries.
DISCUSSION
9. The discussions in FEC on FEC SC-3ll/1 will not develop
into a policy decision for implementation by SCAP. The paper recom-
mends that those U.N. member countries which have not already pro-
vided for the receipt and registration of new Japanese patents,
should do so now. There appears to be no reason why the diseussions
on that paper should cause deferment of a practice in Japan whereby
Japanese can send applications to those U.N. countries which will
aceppt them, e.g. U.S.; neutral nations, etc.
10. Although an announcement of permission to allow some ap-
plications to be sent abroad would not anticipate an FEC policy
decision, it would appear to be advisable at least to notify State
Department that such an announcement is proposed.
11. SCAPIN 802 and SCAPIN 45 contain prohibitions which will
apply except with SCAP approval. As it would be necessary to retain
control over the applications being sent abroad and cver the patents
granted thereon, there would be no need for withdrawal or amendment
of existing directives. A memorandum to the Japanese Government on
procedures to be followed would be sufficient to set the program in
motion.
12. There need be no great work load imposed on GHQ to implement
the project. The Japanese Board of Patents could be required to make
the initial check as to the potentialities of the inventions involved.
Control over the criteria used by that Board could be maintained.
13. Radio W 8709l proposes that any application for patent filed
abroad by Japanese should be assigned to SCAP for a period. Whem this
proposed policy was formulated in the United States and subsequently
discussed in this Headquarters, communication between Japanese and
foreign nationals was not possible. Furthermore, at that time, Jap-
anese could not obtain patents in the United States due to the then
existing domestic law and neither could they acquire any foreign
assets. It was considered that there might be cases where new Japa-
nese inventions would have definite dollar earning potentialities
and, in order to allow these potentialities to become realities, it
was provided that the rights in the invention should be assigned to
SCAP so that all transactions could be effected in his name. As the
abovementioned restrictions are not now applicable, there appears to
be no need for the assignment of the rights.
CONCLUSIONS
14. That no absolute pronibitfon axists against patent appli-
cations being sent to the United States and certain other countries
by Japanese nationals in Japan.
15. That there is no valid reason why such applications should
not now be sent to the United States and other countries whose internal
legislation allows the receipt and processing of such applications.
SECRET
16. That

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of
February 4, 1949.
-3
16. That Japan's foreign trade may benefit from a positive
permission to file applications in those countries which will
receive them. Positive permission to file applications abroad
appears desirable for the following reasons:
a. It will give some measure of protection to Japanese
manufacturers who are proposing to export original products.
b. Dollars for SCAP commercial account will accrue
from royalties paid on any of these patents licensed to foreign
manufacturers.
c. The proposal will give some added incentive to
Japanese inventors and designers.
RECOMMENDATIONS
17. That the attached draft radio be forwarded to the De-
partment of the Army.
18. That on 15 January 1949, the attached memorandum to the
Japanese Government be issued, in the absence of objection from
the Departmat of the Army.
19. Concurrenees: LS
DS
CPC
W. F. MARQUAT
Major General, U.S. Army
Chief, Economic and Scientific Section
SECRET

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Eaelosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of.
February 4, 1949.
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
OUTGOING MESSAGE
ESS/ST
DRAFT
DATE:
16 Doc. 48
UNCLASSIFIED
FROM: SCAP
TO:
DEPT OF ARMY
) For CSCAD
1. FEC document SC 3ll/1 is interpreted as an attempt to get
UN member nations to act in concert on their internal policies re-
garding Japanese pat ents. It is not regarded as pending policy for
execution here. Therefore, there appears no valid reason why patent
applications by Japanese should not be allowed to go to countries
whose internal legislation already allows Japanese Nationals to obtain
and hold patent rights: eg. U.S. Public Law No. 380 of 6 August 1947.
2. In the absence of advice to the contrary, propose to notify
Japanese Government on 15 January 1949 that applications on inventions
developed after 1 January 1946 may be forwarded to countries which
will grant patents thereon.
3. Propose to exereise controls over applications to be sent and
also over any transactions between Japanese and foreign nationals re-
lating to the patents granted or to be granted on these applications.
Such controls to be in accordance with paragraph Tb of urad Aug  87091;
however, believe that assignment of rights to SCAP no longer necessary.
OFFICIAL:
Approved by:
R.M. LEVY
W.F. MARQUAT
Colonel, AGD
Major General, U.S. Army
Adjutant General
Chief, ÉSS
SECRET

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of
February 4, 1949.
-5
COPY
EXCERPT FROM RADIO W 87O91, DATED 6 AUGUST 1948:
"7B. On inventions made by Japanese natls subsequent to
Dec 31, 45 and filed for patent in Japan, SCAP may permit such
natls to file applications for patent in foreign jurisdictions
in any cases in which SCAP determines that such action will
ensure access to foreign markets for certain permitted exports
or provide foreign exchange in the form of RODNINWZS to an ex-
tent sufficient to benefit the Japanese economy, provided that:
"(1). Such natls will agree to assign any foreign
patents issued on such applications to SCAP or an auth agency
of the Japanese Govt for & temp period to be determined by SCAP.
"(2). The filing of subj to the consent of the countries
in whose jurisdiction the patents are to be applied for, during this
period, SCAP or the auth agency shall receive and dispose of all
foreign exchange recd as royalties and small make suitable arrange-
ments for the compensation of the inventor. At the end of this
period, the patents shal be asgd back to the inventor or the party
originally entitled to ownership."
SECRET

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of
February 4, 1949.
-6-
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPHEME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 072(22 Sep 45)ESS/ST
DRAFT
SCAPIN
13 Dec 48
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Patent Applications
1. Reference the following memoranda for the Japanese Govern-
ment from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers;
a. AG 130(22 Sep 45)ESS, SCAPIN 45, 22 September 1945,
subject: Control of Financial Transactions.
b. AG 072(8 Mar 46)ESS/LE, SCAPIN 802, 8 March 1946,
subject: Patent Rights and Restrictions Concerning Patent Rights.
2. The Japanese Government is advised that applications may
be submitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers request-
ing approval for designated Japanese nationals to file patent ap-
plications in those foreign countries, the domestic laws of which
allow Japenese Nationals to obtain and hold patent rights therein.
3. The Japanese Government will not submit any applications
for approval unless the invention concerned was developed subsequent
to 1 January 1946 and is one which it recommends as having definite
potentialities of useful implementation in the country to which the
patent application is to be sent. Provided that, if the applicant
can establish that a person, legally entitled to hold the appropriate
currency of payment, will pay the necessary fees and charges for
obtaining the patent, then the potential value of the subject in-
vention need not be taken into consideration.
4. On written
SECRET

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 73 of
February 4, 1949.
-7-
4. On written approval baing given by the Supreme Cemmander
for the Allied Powers to the forwarding of a patent application
to a foreign country, such approval may be presented to a SCAP
licensed bank together with a request to remit the necessary fees
in dollars or sterling to a designated addressee in the country in
which the application is to be filed.
5. Requests for remittances of fees or charges payable sub-
sequent to the initial remittance will be accompanied by accounts
from the foreign attorney or agent.
6. All requests for remittances in dollars or sterling as
in paragraph 3 and 4 above, will be accompanied by an amount in
yen equivalent to the dollars or sterling to be remitted, at the
rate of 270 to 1 or 1090 to 1 as the case may be.
7. The Japanese Government is notified that any transactions,
by way of assignment, licomse or otherwise, concerning the patent
granted or to be granted on an application filed in a foreign country
in the name of a Japanese national, must be approved by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers prior to finalization and the in-
struaant must be filed with the Foreign Trade Commission in accord-
ance with the terms of Article 6 of the Law relating to the Pro-
hibition of Private Monopoly and Methods of preserving Fair Trade.
8. The Japanese Government is further notified that approval
will be given to the finalization of such transaction only if the
instrument contains a provision that any foreign currency considera-
tion to be paid will be remitted for the account of SCAP to a
SCAP licensee bank which will pay the equivalent amount in yen to
the patentee or applicant through a SCAP licensed bank.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
SECRET

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.85)
INÇOMING AIRGRAM
DEPÁRTMENT OF STATEDIVISION OF COMITINICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
HR
EEB 251949
of
FiC
TIONAL RFSITJIN-S DIVISION
FC5 231949
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
894.542/2-1749
XR
914 4036
841.4036
ite
sthpe
tagr
Labon
ECA
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.93)
FEB171949
HEMORANDUM FOR THE U.S. MEMBER, FAR EASTERN CO
Subjeet: Voting on Faliey Tomard Patents, Utility
Models and Designs in Japan, Feć-aas Serims
It is regarded as a matter of urgenay that this paper, or at
least a major portion thereof, be given to SGaP as a direstive.
You are therefore requested to take sush actien as U.S. fember as
soems appropriate to obtain Commission agreement to the desumest.
It is suggested that you put the antire paper to a vote at the
earliest meeting of the Ft, bafore whieh you bave indiestiems
that ten members other than the U.S.S.R. Member are prepared to
vote in favor of the paper. If the paper is vetoed iy the U.S.s.R.
Hember it is suggested that as U.s. esber you seek to have è wate
taken at once on paragraphs 1-4 and 6 on the ground that prier
expressions of position have indicated Soviet opposition to pase-
graph 5.
For your information it is contemplated that if the Commimsion
is able to adopt paragraphe 1-4 and 6, the U.S. will immediataly
re-introduce the substance of peragraph 5 as a separate paper fer
Cormission discussion and will intend to issue its substanse as an
interin directive if a short period of diseussion indieates that
agreament is impossible.
If the Commission is unable to adopt parugraphe 1-4 and 6,
CS/A
you should not propose or consent to the adoption of any smaller
number of paragraphs.
Charles t. Stitsman
Assistant Secretary
22
0:PPClaxton:br
IIF
Fea7kr
FE
2
2/16/49
CFL
R
pix
0-6422

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.92)
MEMORANDUM FOR THE U. 3. HEMBER, VAR EASTEAN COMMIBAION
Subject: Voting on Policy Toward Patenta, Utility Medale
and Designs in Jaßan, FEC-284 Series.
2nt mo ption the
It is regarded as a matter of urgeney that as mmch as poesible
to obtain Coosission agreement to as much of the deemment as is
poper
possible at once. It is suggested that you put the entire te a
vote at the earliest meeting of the F&C, before whieh you have
indications that ten members other than the U.S.S.R. Member are
prepared to vote in favor of the paper. If the paper is vateed
by the U.S.S.R. Mamber it is suggested that as U.S. Member yos
seek to have a vote taken at once on paragraphs 1-4 and 6 an the
ground that prior expressions of position have indicated Soviet
opposition to paragraph 5.
for your information it is contemplated that if the Commimsiom
is able to adopt paragraphe 1-4 and 6, the U.S. will immediataly
re-introduce the substance of paragraph 5 as & separate paper for
Comsission discusaion and will intend to issue its subatanee as an
interim directive if a short period of discussion indieates that
agreament is impossible.
If the Commission is unable to adopt paragraphs 1-4 and 6,
you are instrueted as U.5. liember to sssk to avoid further astion
by the Commismion at thie time.
you shonld inst progarie the adoption of ony smaller nowher
porsrghe.
or count 
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Seoretary
0:PPClaxton:br
2-16-49
ITP
NA
FE
L
O
manid
0-6422

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.91)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRA
RRA0E
CC
PH
P9 MAR 3
UNCLASSIFDED
513
ADRCRAM
Frozl:
Amorican Lagation
1
Tangier, Morocco
A
ACTION:IP
Dato: February 23, 1949
INFO
DÜR
Rec'd.:
March 3, 1949, 10.:
L
EUR
NEA
Date of riailing: unknown
894.542/2-2349
FE
SECSTARCE,
DCL
WASHTNGON
CIA
L-37
Vob. 23, 1949.
Reforencu Department's inetruction no. 4 of ebruary 1.
19:9, oacloei g a lettey from the Japanese Eoard of Patents, the
inotiuetion atates that the lotter is for the wMoroccan patent
Of?ine" wherocs the lot sor is addreased to the Buroau de Brovets,
Teugloc. The Burceu de Srsxe ts, Tungier, sesves only for the
Interrationai Zone of Tangior. The letter vas sent to the Tangier
Admiaistration and an caditionsl copy for the Residonoy Goneral
of thc Franeh Zone is requested it the lettor wap meant for that
Zono.
INFORMATION
PLITT
TP
503
CP
Fs/nh
MAR 7 1949
ILH
IVISION
FILDD
IR
PED
MAR 3-19494.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be reburmnd-ts DCERCcentral files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, March 3, 1949.
MAR 9 1949
No。132
TRNA IONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
RESTRICTED
MAR 0-1949
gais
DEPARTMENT OF STATH
SUBJECT:
Collection of Royalties by Foreign Owners of Japanese
Patents.
894.542/3-349
Roe'd
Mar 7
ACTION
IIP
INFO
The Honorable
FR
The Secretary of State,
DOR
Washington.
FE
C2D
Sir
411249
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 8
of January 7 1949, on the above subject; despatch no. 48 of
COM
January 24. 1949, entitled "Foreign Business and Investment
Activities in Japan"; and despatch no. 700 of October 20, 1948.
entitled "Swiss Request for License Agreement Covering Manufacture
of DDT Products in Japan", and to state that, in accordance with
800.503194
the changes in foreign business and investment policy reported
in despatch no. 48. General Headquartere, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers, has now authorized the Swiss firm J. R. Geigy
S. A., to collect royaltiee in yen agreed upon between the firm
and Japanese manufacturers in connection with the production of
DDT insecticides in Japan.
This Mission, in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of
11
General Headquarters, has informed the Swiss Diplomatic Mission of
the above-mentioned authorization by a note of this date, which
stated that should the Swiss firm still desire to enter into license
agreements with Japanese producers of DDT insecticides it may make
application for authorization to engage in the specific business
activity of issuing licenses under Japanese patent no. 169665.
This decision by General Headquarters to permit the collection
of royalties for DDT production and to consider an application for
license agreements marks a complete reversal of the previous
position (taken by the Office of the Civil Property Custodian.
which has until recently held staff responsibility for all patent
matters in Japan). 1.e.. that General Heauquarters did not have
APR 8 1949
requisite
FLND
RESTRICTED
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyos Despatch No. 132,
March 3, 1949.
- 2 -
reguisite authority to epprove license agreements for the use of
foreign-owned Japanese patents. The Office of Civil Property
Custodian has maintained that such license agreements were pro-
hibited by SCAPIN 45 of September 22, 1945. entitled Control of
Financial Transactions*.
SCAPIN 45 prohibits, without the prior permission of the
Ministry of Finance, all transactions involving "property in Japan
which is ... owned or controlled ... by any person outside of Japan".
defines the term transaction as including any payment, disposition,
dealing in or exercising any right, power, or privilege with respect
to any property, and defines the term property as including
royalties, patents. trademarks, copyrights, and contracts or
licenses affecting or involving patents, trademarks or copyrights.
The SCAPIN also prohibits. without the prior approval of the
Ministry of Finance. "any transaction involving any obligation owed
by any person in Japan to any person outside of Japan". It has been
the opinion of this Mission that, as evidenced by authorization to
Japanese publishers to enter into agreements for publication rights
for foreign books, SCAPIN 45 is regulatory, not prohibitory, in
nature, and that the Ministry of Finance could properly authorize.
with the approval of General Headquarters. the type of license
agreement and royalty payments requested by the Swiss Mission on
benalf of J. R. Geigy S.A.
While the new business and investment policy reported in this
Mission's despatch no. 48 liberalizes the treatment of foreign
business concerns, a more important factor behind the approval
given in the instant case is the transfer of responsibility for
patent matters from the Civil Property Custodian to the Scientific
and Technical Division of the Economic and Scientific Section.
As reported in this Mission's despatch no. 8. the position of
the Civil Property Custodian in the matte: was previcusly weakened
by the action of the Civil Communications Section im authorizing.
ox November 23, 1948, the limited manufacture of radio equipment
using British and American-owned patents and establishing pro-
cedures for royalty payments, and by the action of the Funds Control
Divisiom of the Economic and Sciemtific Sectiom in informing the
Danish Missiom. on August 3. l948, that present policy governing
foreign exchange transactions does mot prohibit the payment of
royalties for foreigm patents used in Japan during the period of
the Occupation.
In both those cases. however, the patents in questiom had
been registered im Japan prior to the war, and the royalty
payments in the Danish case wore in accordance with license
agreements of longstanding, while the DDT patent was registered
in Japan during the war and mo licease agreements had been made
between the patent owmer and Japanese mamufacturers.
It is anticipated that, in view of the Swiss Mission's
previous
RESTRICTED

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 132,
March 3, 1949.
- 3 -
previous requests for reconsideration by General Headquarters
of the matter of licensing Japanese manufacturers of DDT
insecticides, the Swiss firm will take immediate advantage of
the instant invitation to submit a new application for author-
ization to enter into license agreements.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Diplomatic Section's note
of March 3. 1949 (Less
enclosure, copies of which
were forwarded to the
Department as enclosure no.
7 to this Mission's
despatch no. 48 of January
24, 1949)。
503
THMurfin/bk
RESTRICTED

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure to Despatch No. 132 dated
March 3, 1949 from the United States
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
on the subject "Collection of Royalties
by Foreign Owners of Japanese Patents".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREIE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatis Section
The Diplomatic Section presents its compliments to the
Swiss Diplomatic Mission and has the honor to refer to the
latter's ncte No. F.9.3.2.3. Du/e. cf December 18, 1948, and
to previoua corraspondence concerning the payment of royalties
for the production of DDT insecticides in Japan.
The Mission is advised that this Headquarters has no
cojection to the collection by the Swiss firm, or its
authorized agent, of royalties in yen agreed pon between the
firm and Japanese manufacturers in connection with the production
of DD insecticides in Japan.
The Mission is further advised that the Swiss firm may.
if it still desires to enter into license egreements with
Japanese producers of DDT insecticides, make application to
engage in the specific business activity of iasuing licenses
under Japanese patent No. 169665, under the terms of paragraph
5(d) of this Headquarters: Circular No. 2. dated January 14, 1949.
entitled "Foreign Business and Investmert Activities in Japan".
In this connection there is enclosed a copy of a memorandum by
the Foreign Investment Board ef this Headquartere. entitled
"Application for Permission to Engage in Business Activity".
dated January 21, 1949.
Enclosure?
Copy of Foreign Investment
Board's memorandum of
January 21, 1949.
Tokyo, March 3. 1949.
To tho
Swiss Diplomatic Mission.
Tokyc.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.96)
Auchivel
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
RmIR
SPECIAL STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
AS
CSCAD 072
1949 MAR 9 PM712a0gh 1949
SETOESTATE
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. HULICK, EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO ASSISTANT SECRETARY
FOR OCCUPIED AREAS, DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
SUBJECT: Patents in Japan - MC IN 53422, 31 January 1949
814.542
Files
Central
RM/R
his Document Must Be Returned to
1. On 8 February 1949 cable MC IN 53422 from SCAP requesting
interpretation of certain words which appear in FEC 284/7 was referred
894.542/3-749
to the Department of State requesting information upon which to base
reply. I believe this request was transmitted to the International
Resources Division, attention Mr. Roger C. Dixon.
2. I assure you I would appreciate it very much if you would be
so kind as to furnish the information requested to the end that proper
instructions may be transmitted to SCAP.
F.. Sypuch
G. P. LYNCH
Colonel,GSC
Executive
Civil Affairs Division
CSBM
894.542/3-749
63

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
15 March 1949
Col. Lynch, Civil Affaire Div.,
Dept. of the Army, Room 3B925, Pentagon
John W. Auchincloss, Office of the Assistant
Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
DRAFT cable - Patents in Japan
Files
Central
FM/R
This Decument Must Be Returned to
There is attached a proposed cable, prepared
in the State Department as a reply toMCIN 53422.
This is the matter referred to in your memoran-
dum of March 7 to Mr. Hulick.
894.542/3-1549
Could you let me know on State, ext. 2235,
that Army conourrence has been obtained?
Attachment -
Drft cable
Ac l a WAR86333
mar
CS/E
O:JWAuchinclosssomo
4
894.542
6883

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTAD
RESTRICTED
SCAP, TOXTO
State Department
Astion
FROM CS/CAD CON
Reurtel 233246 for CSCAD requesting intorpretation of words bona fide, second
sentence, para 5 F&C 284/7. The right of a bona fide third party user is
generally interpreted as the right of one who in good faith has begun working
an invention or hap taken the neoessary steps for its working before the filing
of an application by the person to whom a patent is subsequently granted. m
connection with bona fide use as expressed in FEC 284/7, reference is made to
the rights of parties in Jacan who during the war had independently invented
or discovered subject matter similar to that involved in applications filed
with a right of priority granted under FE0 284/7 para 5.
End
ITP:IR:JLightman:prg
3/10/49
LE
NA
FE
O:JWAuchincloss:cmc
29144
3/15/49
6883

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
DRAFT CABLF TO SCAP
RESTRICTED
Reurtel Z38246 for CSCAD requesting interpretation of
words bona fide, second sentence, para 5 FFC 284/7. The right
of a bona fide third party user is generally interpreted as
the right of one who in good faith has begun working an
invention or has taken the necessary steps for its working
before the filing of an application by the person to whom a
patent is subsequently granted. In connection with bona fide
use as expressed in FFC 284/7, reference is made to the rights
of parties in Japan who during the war had independently in-
vented or discoverei subject matter similar to that involved
in applications filed with a right of priority granted under
FC 284/7 para 5.
RFSTRICTED
som nar
Rin dor
ITPrIn:JMLAghtman:prg
OLE
NA
FF
3-10-49

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.90)
2on4205
SAD
RETORN TO "O" REOORDS
D326
Rm
ACTIO22
M IN NO.52?
HU4
AUB25
RR UEPC
PL UAPBG 22C/SCAP 310225Z
TO
DEPT OF ARMY
WD GRIIC
3
PAREN ZEBRA THREE EIGHT TO FOUR SIX PAREN FOR CSCAD PAR REFERENCE
E
IS FOX EASY CHARLIE DOCULENT TWO EIGHT POUR SLASH SEVEN ENTITLED
POLICY TO AND PATENTS CUA UTILITY HODELS AND DESIGNS IN JAPAH PD
SECOND SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH FIVE OF REFERENCED DOCUENT COLMENCES
QUOTE THIRD PARTIES WHO HAVE BONAFIDE MANUFACTURED ET CETERA UNQUOTE
PD WOULD APPRECIATE INTERPRETATION OF WORDS QUOTE XONA FIDE UNQUOTE
IN THAT CONTEXT
31/02052
53K2L
(Jan 47)
2914-A
MC ±N 53 422

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
Rm/k
RESTRICTED
DRAFT CABLE TO SCAP
人。
Urads C 68318 and Z 38846.
Part 1A C 68318. Final action on patent policy besn
Central
RM/R
expedited.
Part 1D C 68318. Also Z 38246 requesting interprb-
tation bona fide in para 5 FEC paper. The right of a
bona fide third party user is generally interpreted as
the right of one who in good faith has begun working an
invention or has taken the necessary steps for its working
before the filing of an application by the person to whom
a patent is subsequently granted. In conneotion with
-1649
bona fide use as expressed in FEC paper, reference is made
to the rights of parties in Japan who during the war had
independently invented or discovered subject matter similar
to that involved in applications filed with a right of
priority granted under para 5.
In our view, this interpretation substantially moets
your position contained in C 62528 para 4 and permits
CJC
infringement proceedings by recipients rights under para 5
FEC paper against copyers described in your cables.
Part 2 C 68318. No plans here for compulsory licensing
provisions. Final policy will be substantially same as
FEC 284/10.
894.542
RESTRICTED
T
Rcn
WOFD
ITP:IR:RCDixon:bw
ITP
NA
13-1649
3/16/49
11

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTEP
CLASSIFIED
JNCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
RES TRIC TED
From:
SCAP Tokyo Japan
To 8
Dept of Army for CSCAD Wash DC
5 Mar 49
C 68318
Nr :
This radio in two parts.
Part 1. A. Introduction of investment policy has
accentuated need for early policy decision on FEC 284/10,
particularly Paragraphe". 5, and 6 thereof. Foreign firms
established here prewur have indicated concern regarding
conditions under which their prewar patents will be restored.
Prewar as well as prospective new investors have requested
information as to how they can protect their inventions
developed and patented during the war as these petents will
form basis of most licence agreements and technical exchange
agreements.
B. Further instances have occurred in addition to
such as cited in ourad C 62528 where Japanese have copied
devices and processes which have been legitimately intro-
duced here by occupation forces. Example is 2.4.D. weed
killer a product of American Paint Company. Experiments
were conducted here to determine efficacy and Japanese
manufacturers subsequently commenced manufac ture of bad
imitations. American Chemical Paint Company owners of
patent in United States have inguired how such unauthorized
production may be stopped and advise they desire to grant
exclusive licence to a reputable Japanese firm at such time
as they can apply for and obtain a valid patent.
C. Terms of FEC 284/10 and urad August W 87091 on
subject of third party rights are classified and threfore
cannot be disclosed in replying to above. American Paint
Comepany and others have indicated desire for policy which
would prevent local manufacture of bad imitations when and
if they eventually obtain their patents.
D. If third party rights 1n Paragraph 5 of FEC
BITERNATIONAL BESOURBES BIVISISN
(6 Mar 49)
CM IN 8010
MAR 10 1949
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
3154A
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
JNCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 2
Nr
C 68318
284/10 not to be 11mited as suggested in ourad C 62528.
request comment on feasibility of rendering the words
'bona fide manufacture et certera" subject to local
interpretation. Reference 1s made to ourad Z 38246 in this
connection:
Part 2. A. ith reference to compulsory non-
exclusive licencing, numerous inguiriès have been received
from prospective foreign investors concerning the opssibility
of such & prevision being introduced into Japanese patent law
as e general measure applicable to all patents registered
in Japan.
B. In view of importance of this matter on foreign
investrent reguest advice earliest whether policy instructions
will ssue frou Washington reguiring introduction here of
compulsory non-exclusive licencing system.
0 62528 not identified in SMC
Z 38246 1s MC IN 53422 (31 Jan 49) CAD
ACTION: CAD
INFO : ID, OUS, CSA
CM IN 8010
(6 Mar 49)
DTG 050930Z
mcs/3
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1849
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1948-O-811947

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: Mr. Butterworth
DATE:3/16/49
FROM : Mr. Barnett -D
sUBJECT: Interim Directive on Patents in Japan.
In aceordve wi the sense of the FEc Steering Group at its meeting in
r. Bishop pice on Maroh l0rI have completae
ry for
issuance or an inter directive to ScAP. on the subjeet of
It was agread by the Stessing Group that the directive would be
Contral
issuance after the arer 17 meetingiof the Commission, the oontent to depen
on the action taken by the Commission on the two papers on this subjeot whin
will be before It at that meeting. There are, therefore, attached for your
signature three papers as follows;
A memorandum to General McCoy containing a statement to be read
by him to the Commission on Manch 24 or to be circulated to members at the
time the interim directive is filed, whichever is the earlier It is my recom-
mendation that this memoramdum be held until Thursday afternooni. March 17th,
and that until that time the FEc document number be left blank, to be approp-
riately filled in depending on whether the interin directive described in b
or c below is bent
b. A memorandum for the Secretary, SAnACC, transmitting a draf
interim diregtive embodying the complete text of FEC-284/14, with the Chirse
February 24. It 1s intended that this directive should be sent if FEC 284/17,
which consists of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of FEC-284/14, is not formally
CSBM
approved by the Comnission at its meeting on March 17. You will recall that
after the adverse Soviet vote on February 24, the US submitted these paragraphs
of Fc 284/14 to the Comnission for further consideration and submitted the
controversial paragraph 5 to Conmnitteel.
c. Another memo randun for the Secretary, SA..ACC, transmitting an
alteraative interim directive containing the text of Fmc-333, which consists
only of paragraph 5 of FEC-284/14, as amended. It is intended that this
interim directive should be sent, as a lecessary supplement, if the Commission
on March 17 formally approves Fc-284/17. Favorable action by the Comnission
on FEC-333 is not contemplated due to the strong stand which the Soviet delega-
tion has taken against it. You may recollect that the Comnission on January
14 referred the patents paper to Comnittee 1 in a vain attenpt to meet Soviet
objections, as then stuted, to paragraph 5. It has now become plear that the
Soviet delegation is in principle opposed to the extension of priority for
patent applications in Japan, and that unanimity on FEC-333 cannot be obtained.
As noted in the attached statement propared for General McCoy's use, the
inatter of patents has been under consideration in the Comrission since December
1947. The US has repeatedly made cl ear to the Com ission the urgent need for
action on this matter. This position is now reinforced by a cable from SCAP
4
An
dated
Rev.
CONFIDENTIAL
cat_

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
dated March 5, 1949 (C-68318) in which he states that introduction of investment
policy in Japan has accentuated the need for an early policy decision on this
matter. Foreign firms established in Japan before the war have indicated concern
regarding the conditions under which their prewar patents will be restored. Pre-
war as well as prospective new investors have requested information as to how
they can protect their inventions developed and patented during the war, as these
patents will form the basis of most license agreements and technical exchange
agreements. In addition numerous instances have occurred in which Japanese have
copied pateuted devices and processes which have been legitimately introduced
by the occupation forces.
The two policy papers on pitents in Japan now before the Commission contain
the provisions needed by SCAP to protect patent rights in Japan of Allied
Nationals, whose interests are inadequately safeguarded in the absence of a
policy, and in general to regularize the operation of the Japanese Patent
Office. These papers have been explicitly approved by SCAP. It is therefore
requested that you approve and sign the attached memoranda to SANACC and the
memorandun for General McCoy in order that a suitable interim directive may
be promptly despatched after the arch 17th meeting of the Commission.
You may recall thut Sucretary arshall had requested that all such interim
directives be s bmitted to him for approval before being issued by the US under
Paragraph III, 3, of the Terms of Reference of the FEC. It was the sense of the
FEC Steering Grouping at its meeting on arch 15 that the circumstances of
the present interim directive do not warrant bringing it to the attention of
Secretary Acheson.
CONFIDENTIAL
SGK
NA
OFD: EP:SGKallis:mcmc
IR
2
3/16/49
mnn2

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.90)
Petent, file
DATE: March 17,
159
Central
RM/R
TO
: NA - Mr. Bishop
les
suject: SCAP's Staff Study on Permission for Japanese to Apply for Patents
in Foreign Countries (PCLAD's Lespatch #73).
 Must De Returned to
The attached staff study which wes concurred in by POLAD as the diplo-
matic section of SCAP recommends that a radio be sent to the Department
of the Army with reference to FEC 3ll/1 stating that unless advised to
the contrary SCAP proposes to notify the Japanese Government that appli-
cations on inventions developed after January 1, 1946 may be forwarded
to countries that will grant patents thereon. So far as I can learn, this
cable has not yet been received by Army. The action contemplated by SCAP
is entirely consistent with the policy of FEC 3ll(which was vetoed in the
FEC this morning) and there is no reason why an affirmative reply can not
894.542/3-17
be given to the cable if actually sent by SCAP.
I have sent a copy of this staff study to Ir. Dixon in IR for his
comment. Unless he as some further recommendation which recuires 
consideretion, it is recommended that no action be taken on Despatch #73.
We mijhit drapt
mstinction migeny Hor E
puilore te act ou the
rmelulutis t lust
should
, se, 077
2li
SECRET FILE
go t 
4
PE7.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
IC
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: March 18, 1949
SUBJECT:
Issuance of Interim Directive on Policy Toward Priority for Patent
Applications in Japan.
Facts Bearing on the Problem
On March 17, 1949, the Far Eastern Commission approved FEC 284/17, Policy
Toward Patents, Utility .odels and Designs in Japan by a vote of 1o in favor
and one abstention (USSR). This paper contained the substance of FEC 284/14
with paragraph 5 deleted. There is attached for your signature a memorandum
for the Secretary of SANACC enclosing a draft directive prepared on the basis
of FEC 284/17, under the provisions of Paragraph II, A, 1, of the Terms of
Reference of the FEC requesting that this draft directive be forwarded to the
Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmission to SCAP.
At the same meeting the FEC, by virtue only of the Soviet veto, failed to
approve FEC 333/2, riority for Patent Applications in Japan (FEC 333/2) - a
proposed policy decision containing the substance of paragraph 5 of FEC 284/14.
The Terms of Reference of the EC provide that "the US Govt may issue
interim directives to the supreme Conmander pending action by the Commission
whenever urgent matters arise not covered by policies already formulated by
the Commission. . ."
Discussion
It is proposed that FEC 333/2 be issued as an interim directive to SCAP as
a necessary supplement to FEC 284/17. The US has made repeatedly clear to the
Commission the urgent need for action on the specific matter of priorities and
has led other delegutions to believe that were FEC 284/17 approved as a policy
Fw894
decision by the FEC and FEC 353/2 not approved, the US Govt woulå issue an
interim directive on the subject. The urgency of the matter has been re-inforced
by a cable from SCAP, dated I.arch 5, 1949 (C 68318) in which he states that
introduction of investment policy in Japan has accentuated the need for an early
policy decision on this matter. Pre-war as well as prospective new investors
have reguested information as to how they can protect their inventions developed
and patented during the war, as these patents will form the basis of most
MAR 23
license agreements and technical exchange agreements. In addition numerous
instances have occurred in which Japanese have copied patented devices and
processes which have been legitimately introduced by the occupation forces.
1949
FEC 333/2 contains the additional provisions needed by SCAP to protect
the rights of Allied Nationals, whose interests are inadequately safe-guarded
in the abgence of a policy on priorities. This provision has been explicitly
377v9
approveafby SCAP. Therefore a memorandum for the Secretary, SANACc, enclosing
a draft interim directive on Policy for Patent Applications in Japan has been
prepared for your signature.
You may
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
You may recall that Secretary Marshall had requested that all such interim
directives be submitted to him for approval before being issued by the US under
Paragraph III, 3 of the Terms of Reference of the FEC. It was the sense of the
FEC Steering Group at its meeting on March 15 that the circumstances of the
present interin directive do not warrant bringing it to the attention of Secretary
Acheson.
Recommendations:
It is recommended that
(1) you approve and sign the attached memorandum for the Secretary,
SANACC enclosing a draft directive prepared on the basis of FEC 284/17,
Policy Toward Patents, Utility Models and Designs in Japan; and
(2) you approve and sign the attached memorandum for the Secretary,
SAvACC enclosing a draft interim directive on Policy for Patent Applications
in Japan.
Concurrences:
The concurrences of OFD, IR, P and L/P have been received to the attached
memoranda.
eD
FE:NA:AIDunning:lk

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PION OF
NOPTH ASIAN AFFAIRS
17 March 1949
71949
TATE
My dear Mr. Secretary:
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission provide
that one of the funotions of the Commission should be to "formulate
the policies, principles and standards in conformity with which the
fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the Terms of Surrender
may be accomplished."
It is further provided that when such decisions are mede by
the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall prepare
directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the Commission
and shall transmit them to the Supreme Commander through the appropriate
894
At the one hundred and forty-fifth meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission held at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D.C.
on 17 March 1949, the enclosed policy decision entitled "Policy
542/3-1749
toward Patents, Utility Models, and Designs in Japan" was approved.
The Soviet representative abstained from voting on the enclosure.
As Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I have
been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of the
Commission in order that an appropriate directive may be prepared
and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance with the
Terms of Reference.
The Commission agreed that the text of the enclosed polioy
should be released to the press after the appropriate directive has
been received
ao
894.5421
alll
CS/H
The Honorable
Dean Aoheson,
Secretary of State,
MAR 301949
Washington, D. C.
FILED
131749
034885

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
been received by the Supreme Commander. In order that we may make
our arrangements for release as expeditiously as possible, it would
be appreciated if you could notify me when the United States direotive
has reached Tokyo.
Sincerely yours,
Nelerm Truslug hnem
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary Generaf
Enclosure:
Certified Copy of
Polioy No. 56.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.89)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE NW.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of a dooument adopted at the one hundred
and forty-fifth meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held at
2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Viashington, D. C. on 17 March
1949, has been compared with the original text and is hereby
certified to be correct.
Kelom Tpmaluhuem
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Fw894.
Washington, D. C.
17 March 1949
N
0
ap

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.83)
PLNX TAND BASTES TLITL KEEIS A ESG I JANE
The Per Eastera Comission desides as a matter of patiey the
folleing:
1. Dh dae Paet in
The Japamese Patamt Ofrice should eostimme to emssie
its frmetioms, in sueh mamer as will fulrill the proviaieme im
patested sventiem, and such previsioss should be strietly one
fereed. The Patent Gffice should resume the publicaticta af
afficial gasettes and patent specifications.
2. Ratnt Rihta in Jamn
No estion should be taken to istertare with patest rights
in Japan whick new exist, or whish are restered, er whick are mesly
FW894.
asquired during the peried af cscupation, erept
acccrdanse with the tasme of referenee of the Par Eastern
Commissions
b. mhare smch righte interfore with sush pmedueticm,
use, sale or impestation of produsts as are neesssasy te esesy
cut the purpeses of the cesmpetien. In such cases the Sapeeme
542
appropriate provisiens of the Japamess Patent Lem to the
extant that such astion may provide a remedy.
The provisiems of thie paragreph do not apply te Gesmam
onmed or former German-oumed patents in Japan.
4
3. Searet Patenta in Jaen
The future mmintesanse in sseresy of any patent im Japan
should be prohibited, existing seeret pateats ahonld be pukliaked
applications heretafcre treated as seeret shoald be removed from
2
ar

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.84)
-2-
smsh clessificstion and treeted in the seme mmmer a all stiee
applicstiems.
4. t i da d  Alied aa
(For the purposes of this paregraphs
(1) An "Allied matioals is me mhase proparty es
natioml.
(2) The "affestive date of lose" applienkle to the
pateste or appliostions therafer of allied matiomals
of soqumstrstion of his petent, or the date on whick
his patent righsts lapsed.)
. atanta acdeting in Japan n the effaetive date of
Loss or granted thereafter on appliestions filed befare that
dats, which were oonsd or had bean applied fer ky Allied
To such cases the fallewing provisioms should applys
(1) Bush cmer should be affanded a reasemekle time
mintenanse of his rights whish have not boen performeé
sinse the effestive dats of loss.
(2) The cmmer of a patent se restored or revalidated
Japanose patent law existing at the time of sush mestorm»
tioe.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.87)
-3-
(3) The  to     red
should refand to the Japesese Goneesment any sems
the.
(4) Paymeat of any spesdal or seguler fees thst
respest to sush pateate from the affoetive date et
lose to date of suah restoration sbould not be sequired.
At the request of the Allied mationel meer ade
mithin a reasomable time (in sush form and prder to mach
pariod of duration of any Japanese patent cemed by him 
normal expiration date. Sueh extension ahomld be fer a
period equnl to that from the affective date of lose to the
effective date of restoration or to the nermal expiration
caner waives all slai to rogalties for use of the patast
from the effoctive date of lone to the date so fimd snd
resite any funde reesived by him or credited to him ln a
blosked acoomt as ragalties for such use.
The Supreme Commander should not be sespensibße for
obtaining, or attempting to obtain, on behalf of Allied
natioals compensetiom for any use made of their patasks
royaltise for use of their righte from the effestive dats
of loss to date of resteration. If the Allied mationml amse
elests to receive sueh funds in lien of an sxtension of tase
as provided in para. b above, he should be entitled to do me
on the came hmsis as other funds are restored to allied
mational preperty cunere in Japan.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.88)
-4-
Applicetiome filed ty allied ationale far
comforme semerally with epplissble provisioms of sky
graph 4 & sbeve.
Tde palisy applice also to these patente dessgnated
as "registesed utility modals" and, to the axtent applieakle,
to kegistered desigus".
56
380-284/18
17 March 1949

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
Se
March 1, 1949
Im reply refer to
XA
RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SEORETARY. SANACO
Subject: Draft Direotive regarding Poliey Towards Patents,
Utility Models and Designs in Japan
749
There is enclosed a draft direotive prepared on the basis
of a policy decision approved at the 155th meeting of the Par
894.542/
Eastern Commission on Maroh 17, 1949, under the provisions of
Paragraph II, A, 1, of its Terms of Reference.
It is requested that the enolosed draft direotive be
forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for transmissiom to
General MacArthur for hie guidance in accordance with Para-
graph III, 1, of the Terms of Referenoe of the Far Eastern
Commission. It is assumed that if the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CN
have any question regarding the draft direotive they will refer !
the matter to the Department of State for clarifioatiom before
1749
transmitting a direotive on the subjeot.
The Seoretary General of the Far Eastern Commission has
informed the Seoretary of State that the Commission, in
adopting the policy decision regarding Polioy Toward Patents,
Utility Models, and Designs in Japan, agreed that it should be
released to the press after the appropriate directive had been
A/AFf94.542
received by the Supreme Commander. Therefore, in accordance
with normal procedure, acknowledgment of the receipt of the
directive by SCAP is requested.
Srigned
at
W. Walton Butterworth
las made of
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
3
Enclosure:
Draft Directive.
QMBOID
Cleaned will
FE:NA:ALDunning:pm:lk:clh
OFDAID
IR
FE
EP
3/18/49
ain
RESTRICTED
ald

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
oCp
March 21, 1949
In reply refer to
OFD
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY. SANACC
Subject: Draft Interim Directive Regarding
Policy Toward Priority for Patent
Applications in Japan.
(19
894.542/3-1749
3-17
There is enolosed a draft interim direstive prepared in
accordance with paragraph III, 3 of the Terms of Reference of
the Far Eastern Commission which provides that: "The United
States Government may issue interim directives to the Supreme
Commander pending action by the Commission whenever urgent
mtters arise not covered by policies already formulated by
the Commission, provided that any directives dealing with
fundamental changes in the Japanese constitutional structure
or in the regime of control, or dealing with a change in the
Japanese Government as a whole will be issued only following
consultation and following the attainment of agreement in
the Far Eastern Commission."
It is requested that the enolosed draft interim direetive
be forwarded to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for tranamission to
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. It is assumed
that if the Joint Chiefs of Staff have any questions regarding
A/AP
the draft interim directive they will refer the mtter to the
Department of State for clarification before transmitting an
interim directive on the subject.
Legried
i8
894.5.42
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Bnolooure: cluss. Mide A
Draft Interim Direotive.
3-1749
.
SEK
命
OFD:RWBarnett:mck
NA
ETP
EP
L
3/14/49
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.90)
PRANT DNTERIM DIREORIVE RES
PREORITY POR PATEST APTLIGATICIS TH JAPA
Nationels of countries at mar with Jepen whe ked daly siled
in eay country the first applicatiom for e patemt met earlier the
twelve monthe before the effective date of less of rigks to file
apply for patents direetly to the Japenese Pateat offiee and to
obtain legal services nesessary for this perpose, to spply fer
corresponding rights in Japan with & right of prierity based upen
the previous first filing of the applieation. Third pmrsies whe
have bona fide manafectured, used, sold or lessed she sabjes
matter of any Japasese petent obtsined with this prierity aheald
not be liable for infringsmsnt en ssosunt of sueh use but shsulé
be enabled to comtimme such use efter the filing of the eppliostiom
only under the tonms of a non-exalusive licemse whick the patems
owner should be required to grent en terms providing fer reesemakle
royalties as fixed by an ageney to be authorised to make swek deter-
mimation. Payment of suoh royalties should be subjeet to applieable
fimensial rogule tions in effect in Japes at the time they are paid.
2
1749

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.90)
SCHP
ARVANCED ACTION
4 43529
A & C6ARCE
080
1606592
S. C.
CAD
11182
TRT
CLD
894.542
ACT
HUB81
No action
ADM
EX
AUD40
DIVISION OF
BMP
ECN
RA
RR UEPC
MAR181949 3/02/49
S
IDC
DEPARTMENT OF STATE H/e
MPB
FM UAPBG 42B/SCAP 1606592
RO
SEC
TKL
TO DEPT OF ARMY
WD GRNC
ZH36
ZEBRA FOUR THREE FIVE TWO NINE FOR CSCAD PD PAR ONE PD REFERENCE IS
FEC 321,
DOCUMENT FOX EASY CHARLIE THREE TWO ONE PD PAR TWO PD AS LICENCE
AGREEMENTS AND COLLECTION OF ROYALTIES THEREUNDER ARE NOW BEING PERMITTED
CMA SWISS MISSION IN TOKYO HAS BEEN ADVISED IN REPLY TO COMMUNICATION
P
CS
A/1
RECEIVED FROM THEM RECENTLY THAT VEIGY MAY NOW COLDECT ROYAETIES
6
D△T
ON MANUFACTURE OF DOG PD DOG PD TARE PD HERE AND MAY APPLYDFOR
PERMISSION TO ENTER INTO LICENCE AGREEMTNS PD PLEASE ADVISE
v
5
UNITED STATES MEMBER OF FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
16/86432
1
NED SOIO
140515
525

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.91)
COUPIDXETTAL
March 24,1949
MAMORANDUN FOR TIE UNITAD STATES HE BER YAR KASTARN GOE
Sub JOot: PRIORITY FOR PTMT APLICATIONS IN JAPA.
The State-Anay-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Commistee bas requested
tho Joint Chiefe of Steff to 1ssue FE0-Ss3/2 in direetive fom to the
Supreme Camander for the Allied Powers as a matter of urgemey. Yes
aro uuthorized to notify membors of the Far Lastern Commissiom thet
this action is bein; tuken and that the interim direetive will, in
the neur future, be filed ith the ecroturiat end oiroulated to the
Cormismion. You may roed to the Fur lastern Commission at its meetins
of arch 24, or you may ciroulate to tho Cormimsion in written fom
ut the timo of the filing of tho interim direetive, whiehever is
carlier, the following statement:
"Turing the an onthe in which the far sasterm
Colssion hd undor considerution e polioy proposal on
xitonts, utility modclo une dosigne in Jupan, tho United
tates overnmont ropeutedly mede clear to the Coaminsion
894.542/3-2449
tivt uction on this matter. including tho propomel re-
prding priority ror patent pplicutione in Japan, was
a vaitter of urgoncy. The action of tho Caalssion at its
145th meotin on  roh 17, 1949, in approving fLc-884/19.
pluces in th ands of tho supree Con ander for the
Allied rowers policy ducision of the Commimsion on this
subjeot which, howover, does not cover the iaportent issue
of priority for patent upplications in Japan.
"Yor a poriod of many wooks, it has boen cloar that
cost of tuc uo: iseion mabers ware ready to mprove the
provision rogarding priorities, oither eu a pert of the
generul polioy proposal on potents, utility models and
dosigns, or us a soperate policy papur. Patient and pro-
longed eriorts were pade to foimulate this provision in
sucs tems timt it could recoive unanimous support. s
you all Im w tho Com ission wus, howover, unablo to net.
Thererore in uccortence with tho uuthority which has been
(Panted in para raph IlI, 3, of the Torms of Referenee
of tho For ustern Cominaion. the United States Govermment
kas beon i pelled to insue a dirootive ambodying the contents
of Fx-Sss/a au o rattor of urgenoy to tho Suprame Caamnder
9
for the Allied oors.
5
S4
"This
11
COONIAL
#

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.87)
"This intesim direstive is beins filed
due course, be eirsulated fer the infomee
Commission members.
Sigaed
W. Walton Butterworth
Direetor for Far Festemm Affaire
Cestifced
NAIP.neK.
Claared mlt M. Bamell
OFD:RWBarnett:mck
5mr. Kall
anedye ll Iened
theen
OFD:EP:SGKallis
thee
FE:NA:ALDunning:lk
Cleaned will Pasa
IR
aen
NA
3/24/49 alD
MB
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: MrCh 31, 1949
TO
FE - Mr. Butterworth
SUBJECT :
Interim
Directive, Serial Number loo, Regarding Policy
Toward Priority for Patent Applications in Japan
and Directive Serial Number l0l, Regarding Policy
for Patents, Utility Models and Designs in Japan.
There are attached for your signature two pro-forma
memoranda for the Secretary General, FEC, containing
certified copies of an Interm Directive, Serial Number
l00 regarding Policy Toward Priority for Patent Applica-
tions in Japan and Directive, Serial Number lOl, regarding
Policy Toward Patents, Utility Models and Designs in
Japan to be filed with the Far Eastern Commission under
the provisions of paragraph III, 4 of its Terms of
Reference.
NA:ALDunning:lk
3/31/49

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
Caafidectial
Fele
TO
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: 3/23/49
FROM : NA - Mr. B1shop
suject: Statement for General McCoy Rcgarding Issuance by U.S. Gov-
ernment of Interim Directive on Priority for Patent Applica-
tions in Japan.
Diecussion
An interim directive on the subject of priority for
natent annlications in Japan 1s being transmitted by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff to SCAP. In view of the interest
of all the other members of the Commission, except the
USSR in this paper (FEC-333/2, Priority for Patent Appli-
F1
cations in Japan, was defeated only by virtue of the
Soviet veto), it appears advisable to inform the other
members of the Commission at the earliest possible time
of the action wnich the U.S. Government has taken.
894154
Recommendation
It is recommended that you approve and sign the
attached memorandum for the U.S. member.
Concurrences
The concurrences of OFD, IR and L have been obtained
to the attached memorandum.
u
Attachment
MAR 3 1 1949
FILED
CS/H
a~D
FE:NA:ALDunning: Jh
Sarfidertial

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
FEC
STATE-ARMY-NAVY-AIR FORCE COORDINATING COMMIPTEE
Washington, D.C.
QIVISION OP
NORTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
894.542/3-3049
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mrs. A. L. Dunning - NA)
Subject: Directives Transmitted to SCAP by the
Joint Chiefs of Staff
References:
: a. SANA-6350 (21 Mar 49)
b. SANA-6351 (22 Mar 49)
Enclosed are four copies of Interim Directive, Serial
No. l00, and four copies of Directive, Serial No. Io1,
transmitted to SCAP by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copies No.
1 are for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commission and
Copies No. 2, 3, and 4 are for the files of the State Depart-
ment.
For the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee:
Penge H. Haselto
GEORGE H. HASELTON,
Executive Secretary
Enclosures:
Serial No. 100,
Copies No. 1, 2, 3, & 4
APR 2 2 1949
Serial No. 101,
FILED
Copies No. 1, 2, 3, & 4
CS/H
142293
c3

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.94)
Tle
al
In reply refer to
NA
APR 5 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
MEMORANDUM POR THE SECHETARY GENERAL
894.542/3-3049
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
There is enclosed a certified copy of an Interim
Directive, Serial No. 100, which wad dispatched as a matter
of urgenoy by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, under date of March 23, 1949, regarding
policy toward Priority for Patent Applications in Japen. This
copy is to be filed with the Far Eastern Commission under the
provisions of paregraph III, 4, of its Terms of Referenee.
W. Welton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affeirs
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (certified)
of Interim Direetive to SCAP,
Serial No. 100
ald
894.542/3-3049
HE:NA:ALDunning:ikb 3/30/49
e4y
CS/H
UNCLASSIFIED
A 
APR. 5 1943
the signed orty-
nal.
CR/21

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.90)
DC/02
Tele
aiD
In reply refer to
nA
UNCLASSIFIED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR FASTERN COMMISSION
In accordance with a momorandum dated Maroh 30, 1949,
from the State-Army-Navy-Air Force Coordinating Committee,
894.542/3-3049
there is enclosed a certified copy of a directive, Serial
No. lOl to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers regard-
ing polioy toward Patents, Utility Models and Designs in
Japan to be filed with the Far Eastern Commission under the
provisions of paragraph III, 4, of its Terms of Reference.
W. Walton Butterworth
Director for Far Eastern Affairs
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (Certified)
of Inbertm Directive to SCAP,
Serial No. 101.
OD
C4
FE:NA:ALDunning/ikb 3/30/49
CK
5949
4
UNCLASSIFIED
2
CS/H
-30
A
the sig
H
CR/21K
f

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
1π
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF
InTERNAAL TRADE POLICY
nited Stetes Political Adviser
APR 1 501949
for Japan
Tokyo, April 1, 1949.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
REC 'D
No。 194
APRIL 1.1
NTERNA ONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
UNCLASSIFIED
luc.alt.
AC TION
APR151919
ITP ENC
DEPARTMENT OF SMTE
INFO
FR
DCR
Subject
Revalidation and Restoration of Patents in Japan
L ENC
Owned by Foreign Nationals
FE ENC
894.542/4-149
OLI ENC
OFD ENC
COM ENC
The Acting Politicel Adviser for Jepen has the honor to
refer to the Far Eastern Commission's recently issued policy
directive to the Supreme Commender for the Allied Powers
(SCAP) regarding the rovalidation and restoration by the
Japenese Government of patent property rights in Japan owned
by Allied nationals and cancelled or sequeetered during World
War II.
1/
There is now enclosed e cony of a press release on this
M
subject 1ssued March 28. 1949, by the Public Information
Office, General Headquarters. (U. S. ) Far East Command, Tokyo,
end entitled "Patent Rignts to be Revalidated." It is under
stood that a similar press release mas scheduled to have been
issued simultaneously at Washington.
The detailed provisions for the Jananese Government's
700.54294
implementation of the FEC policy directive are expected to be
released in the near future in the form of a ScAP instruction
to thet Government. Copies of this instruction will be trans-
mitted to the Department for its records.
2/
Also enclosed are seven copies of a pamphlet dated
October 1o48 and entitled "Industrial Pronerty". This pamphlet,
prepared by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Tokyo, contains
information regarding the protection of foreign-owned industrial
property in Japen. the meesures taken by the Japanese Govern-
ment during the war. the status of foreigu-owned industrial pro-
perty in Jepan under the Occupation, and comments on future
problems with respect to such property.
According
APR 2 6 1949
FTLED
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 194,
April 1, 1949.
- 2 -
According to a responsible official of the Office of Civil
Property Custodian of this Headquarters, the material presented
in this pamphlet eppeers to be factually correct.
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of press release
dated March 28, 1949,
entitled "Patent
Rights to be Revelidated",
and
2/ Copy of pamphlet dated
October 1948 and entitled
"Industrial Property".
(Transmitted in septuplicate).
Parchment mat to Department
503
CHBoehringerims
UNCLASSIFIED
lw

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch
No. 194 dated April 1, 1949
from the United States
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Re-
UNCLASSIFIED
validation and Restoration
of Patents in Japan Owned
by Foreign Nationals."
( COPY )
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
1330
28 March 1949
PATENT RIGHTS TO BE REVALIDATED
Patent pronerty rights in Janen owned b" Allied nationals
and which were cancelled or s equestered during the war will be
revalidated end restored to their cwners under a policy directive
of the Far Eastern Commission, it was announced yesterday by
General Headquarters SCAP
This long awaited directive, which covers registered patents,
utility models, and designs, elso provides for recovery of any
funds which have been set aside as royalties, by an Allied national
whose patent pronerties were used without his authority during the
war or, at his option, to have his patent proverty rights extended
into the future to comnensate him for loss of those rights during
the war.
Revalidation and restoration of Allied owned patents will be
at the request of the owners thereof, who will te afforded a
reasorable time within whtch to make such requests through SCAP.
They will, thereafter, be entitled to all the rights end privileges
afforded by the Japanese patent laws end will he excused from pay-
ment of any special or remilar fees thet may have accrued to the
Japanese Government during the war neriod.
Extension of patent pronerty rights of Allied owmers, et
their ontion, will be for a pericd equel to that from the dete of
loss to the date of restoration or to the normal expiretion date
of the patent. whichever is eerlier, provided that such cwner
waives all cleim for the use of the patent during thet period and
remits any funds received by him or credited to him in a blocked
account as rovalties for such use. The Allied owner, however,
may elect to receive rovelties for the uee of his patent property
rights during the wer period in lieu of an extension of those
rights mentioned above.
The Supreme Commander is not responsible for obtaining, or
attempting to obtain, on behalf of Allied nationels. compensation
for any
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 194,
April 1, 1949.
-2
for any use made of the patents/prior to the date of restoration.
SCAP will, however, upon requejt, make available to Allied
patent owners information as,to funds credited to their accounts
which constitute royalties fir unauthorized use of patent rights.
An Allied national or purposes of this policy directive,
is one whose property was treated as enemy property by the Japanese
Government, or shose pronerty rights lapsed owing to the existence
of hostilities between Japen and the country of that national. An
Allied national is deemed to have lost control of his patent pro-
perty rignts in Janan on the date of entry of the country of that
national into war with Jenan.
It was stated that nearly 5.000 petents, utility models, and
designs in Janan owned by Allied netionals are subject to revalida-
tion and restoration under the terms of this directive, end that the
Office of the Civil Proverty Custodian is prenared to receive re-
quests from Allied patentees for approrriate action.
In e senarate directive SCAP was also authorized to require
the Jananes Patent Oifice to accent anplicetions from nationals of
countries et war with Jenen who had filed in any country applications
for patents w thin twelve months before the outbreak of hostilities
and to register such patents in Japen mith a right of priority based
upon the previous first filing of the apolication.
In effect, this will allow persons outside of Japan who filed
applications for neterts in their own countries as eerly as 194l to
obtain Jamenese natent rignts even though patents have been issued
to other persons in Jevan on similar inventions during the war.
The long priority provision of this directive is expected to
encourage foreign ratentees to send their latest inventions into
Japen end thereby contribute to the modernization of its industry.
Assurance that such ner technolory will be protected under Japanese
law has been held as a necess ry fector in the re-entry of many
foreign business concerns who formerly operated here.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.92)
INDUSIKIAL PRUPERIY
Fw
894.542
FOREIGN OFFICE
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
1+9
OCTOBER 1948

=== Page 147 === (confidence 1.00)
CONTENTS
Page
I. Preface
1
II. Protection of Foreign-owned Industrial Property in Japan...
1
III. Measures taken during the War..
2
IV. Foreign-owned Industrial Property under Allied Occupation..
3
(a) Allied Memoranda and Japanese Government Measures...
3
(b) The Present Use of Foreign-owned Industrial Property.
6
V. Future Problems
6
Annex
I. War-Time Law of Industrial Property
11
II. List of Industrial Property registered in the Names of
Foreign Nationals as of December 7, 1941
13

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
I. PREFACE
Industrial property has an important bearing upon the demilitarization
of Japan which is one of the cardinal objectives of Allied occupation, and
at the same time it is vitally involved in the economic reconstruction of
the country.
Especially the use, in the past and in the future, of such rights owned
by foreign nationals is a matter that touches the very root of Japan's in-
dustrial economy.
The following pages give a sketch of the condition of industrial
property in Japan before the war, the measures taken during the war
relating thereto and their current status under the Allied occupation, and
also a brief exposition of the various difficulties now confronting Japán and
the problems that remain yet to be solved.
II. PROTECTION OF FOREIGN-OWNED INDUSTRIAL
PROPERTY IN JAPAN
In Japan industrial property is classified into the rights of patent,
utility model, design, and trade mark. It was in 1870 that a patent system
was first established in Japan, which has since undergone revision several
times. The present Patent Law was enacted in 1921. Article 32 of this
Patent Law (applicable equally to the Utility Model, Design, and Trade
Mark Laws). distinguishes foreign nationals who have residence or business
office in Japan from those who have not, and provides that (a) those who
have shall enjoy patent rights equally with the Japanese; and (b) those
who have not shall enjoy the rights only in the cases where there exists
an arrangement by treaty between Japan and their countries.
As regards the nationals of a country having a treaty with Japan
relating to protection of industrial property, the said nationals, regardless
of whether or not they have residence or business office in Japan, may
acquire the rights and receive protection equally with the Japanese by
going through the necessary procedure under Japanese laws. These steps
may be taken through a representative having residence or business office
in Japan.
C 1 )

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
The countries having treaty with Japan include the parties to the
International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and those
having individual bilateral treaties or agreements with Japan. The Inter-
national Convention was concluded in 1883 at Paris. It was revised in
1900 at Brussels; in 1911 at Washington; in 1925 at the Hague; and in
1934 at London. Japan has adhered to the above successive conventions
since 1899.
The following are the Allied countries, which are parties to the Con-
vention :
The United States of America, Argentine, Australia, Czechoslovakia,
Dominica, France, Luxemburg, Sweden, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cuba,
Denmark, England, Greece, Mexico, Norway, New Zealand, Holland, Poland,
Turkey, Yugoslavia, Syria and Lebanon.
As for individual treaties, Japan concluded in 1911 a bilateral agree-
ment with Russia relating to mutual protection of industrial property, by
which the contracting parties mutually recognized the ability of the nationals
of either one of the parties to enjoy industrial property in the territories
of the other.
China and Siam are the countries whose respective treaty of commerce
and navigation with Japan contains special provisions relating to mutual
protection of industrial property—namely, Article 5 of the Supplementary
Sino-Japanese Treaty of 1903, and Article 16 of Japan-Siam Treaty of 1937.
It should be added that the Sino-Japanese treaty provides only for the
protectien of trade marks.
III. MEASURES TAKEN DURING THE WAR
According to prevailing view among authorities on international law
concerning the effect of a war on the treaties between the belligerent Powers,
multilateral treaties, especially those of administrative and technical char-
acter, relating to private rights are suspended during the period of hostilities.
In the case of Japan, it is believed that the International Convention
for the Protection of Industrial Property was suspended with respect to
her former enemies—namely, the Allied Powers, but it has continued to be
in effect as far as the neutral countries are concerned.
During the Pacific War the Japanese Government invoked the War-
Time Law of Industrial Property of 1917. (See Annex I.)
( 2 )

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
The Law, providing respective measures, especially against enemy
nationals, was drawn up during the First World War on the basis of the
principles that had been agreed upon by the then Allied Powers at the
Economic Conference at Paris. The principal measures which were taken
under the law during the last war are as follows:
1. Patents and registrations were stayed concerning applications
or demands made by United Nations nationals.
2. Some patents owned hy United Nations nationals were tan-
celled (Note 1).
B. With regard to certain patents owned by United Nations
natiovals, the rights of exelusive use under War-Time Law were grant-
ed to specially licenced Japanese (Note 2).
4. A few of the trade marks belonging to United Nations nationals
were cancelled (Note ).
IV. FOREIGN-OWNED INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY UNDER
ALLIED OCCUPATION
in Allied Memora da and Japanese Government Measures
Following the Allied occupation of Japan, the General Headquarters of
the Supreme Commander issued a memorandum on “ Protection of Allied
and Axis Property " dated September 13, 1945, and another on " Control
of Financial Transactions" under the date of September 22 of the same
year.
In compliance with the first of these directives the Japanese Govern-
ment promulgated Finance Ministry Ordinances, No. 78, September 20, 1945
and No. 0, September 26, 1945, suspending acquisition, disposal, mutation
or transference of all properties belonging to Allied and Axis nationals.
Under the second directive Finance Ministry Ordinance No. 88, October 15,
Note 1 Patent rights cancelled
1,394
Those actually used ...
92
Note 2 Patents the exelusive use of which was permitted under War-
Time Law
92
Those actually used ... ...
42
Rights of exclusive use under War-Time Law
244
Those actually used ... ... ...
53
Holders of the rights of exclusive use under War-Time Law
53
Those who actually used such rights...
23
. Note 3 Trade mark rights caneelled
54
Those actually used ... ...
none
( 3 )

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
1945 was issued, which forbade all transactions relating to the property
located within Japan, and owned by persons residing outside Japan, which
of course was applicable to all incorporeal property such as patents.
Various SCAP directives were issued thereafter for the compilation of
the necessary data for the postwar disposition of foreign-owned industrial
property, and the Government has taken appropriate measures to meet the
Allied demand by issuing, if necessary, cabinet or ministrial ordinances.
(1) Memorandum on "Dissolution of Holding Companies," November
6,1945.
This memorandum is related mostly on the dissolution and suppression
of the 4 zaibatsu and other monopolistic bodies. Paragraph 7 prohibits
Japanese from participating in international cartels and private international
contracts of a similar nature and directs the Japanese Government to take
the necessary measures to that end.
Accordingly, Imperial Ordinance, No. 33, January 23, 1946 was pro-
mulgated. Investigations were conducted into the existing private inter-
national contracts. There were 231 such contracts reported, of which a
majority numbering 185 have to do with industrial property rights.
(2) Memorandum on "Restrictions on Patents and Patent Rights,"
March 8, 1946.
This Memorandum directed the Japanese Government to do the follow-
ing:
(i) To submit to the Allied Headquarters a report on all the
patents held by the Government or its subordinate organs or agencies,
and those which were declared " secret patents" after January 1, 1930,
and the inventions for which patents were then being applied (Note 4).
(ii) To take the necessary action for the prohibition of, all con-
tracts for transfers or assigaments involving the above-mentioned patents
and the applications thereof, and also to prohibit the registration in
any other country of any Japanese owned patents unless approved by
the General Headquarters for the Allied Powers (Note 5).
The memorandum was intended to find out what patents the Govern-
Note 4 By the memorandum dated July 31, 1918, it was decided that all the " seeret patents"
will be treated as ordinary patents.
Note 5
The Government was authorized to grant licenses on government owned patents and
utility models, under the 6-June-1948 Memorandum on "Licensing of Government-
owned Patents."
( 4 )

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
ment had, and to restrict their disposal, pending a future decision. Ac-
cording to the reports filed by the various government organs, the patents
numbered about 5,000 and applications for patent about 400.
By way of carrying out the latter (ii) measure, Commerce and Industry
Ministry Ordinance, No. 20, May 31, 1946 on " Restrictions on the Disposal
of Patent Rights," was issued.
(3) Memorandum on "Patents, Utility Models, Desigos and Trade
Marks," July 13, 1946.
This memorandum called for a complete list of all patents, utility
models and trade marks registered. in the names of foreign nationals on
December 7, 111, the day the Pacific War started. Patents then applied
for, and registered later, had to be reported also. The Board of Patents
posted a nation-wide " Notice to Contract Holders for the Use of Patented
Inventions, . owned by Foreign Nationals" and proceeded to carry out
the Allied directive.
The results of the investigation, as reported to G.H.Q., showed that
there were registered 8,580 patents, 1,944 utility models, 95 designs, and
15,6s! trade marks (Note 6). (For details, see Annex I.)
(4) Memorandum on " Patents, Utility Models, Desigrs, Trade Marks
and Copyrights of United Nations Nationals," December 17, 1946.
The memoragduen directed the Government to submit a full report on
the use made of all the patents, utility models, desigos, trade marks and
copyrights which were registered, or of which registration was applied for,
in the names of United Nations nationals on or after December 7, 1941
and also of those registered in the name of individuals or firms other than
United Nations nationals under agrement with a United Nations national.
Accordingly. Ibmperial Ordina ce No. 36, January 0, 1916 was issued,
and investigatiores were made on the uses made of on the Uoited Nations
industrial property rights between June 1, 19:1 and December 1, 1946.
The rights involved numbered as follows:
Note 6. Applicat es outstandirg at th, time of war deci ration, and those filed during
the war were:
Patents:
4395 (1,921)
Udlity models:
723 (314)
Trate marks:
783 347
Total
5,901 .2,982
Figures in parentheses indicate those of which registrations have
since been compieted.
( 5 )

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Patents:
404
3
Utility models:
91
Trade marks:
23
Total :
518
(5) Memorandum on "Industrial Property Rights Registered in the
Names of Specially Designated Foreign Nationals," August 28, 1947.
The memorandum ordered the Government to investigate and report
on the industrial property rights owned by nationals of specially designated
countries (members of the United Nations). The Board of Patents conduct-
ed the required investigations, the results of which, as were reported to the
Allied Headquarters, are given in detail in Annex II.
(6) Memorandum on " Report on the Production under the Licenses
for Exclusive Use," December 5, 1947.
The memorandum ordered investigations in the production through the
use of United Nations patents licensed under the War-Time Law of In-
dustrial Property and the royalties paid thereon. It was discovered that
from the time the licenses under War-Time Law were issued to the end of
the fiscal year of 1947 the royalties amounting to Y112,302.88 had been
paid.
(b) The Present Use of Foreign-owned Industrial Property
Some of (1) those rights that were cancelled under the War-Time
Law, (2) those whose terms expired during the war, (3) those which have
lapsed through non-payment of registration fees, or (4) those for which the
licenses for exclusive use under War-Time Law were granted, as well as
all those under valid contracts from prewar days, are being used by Japa-
nese, at present.
The adjustment of the rights and contracts which have been affected
by the War-Time measures, is to be made under the peace treaty, of which
the prospect is yet dim. Under such a circumstance the foreigners who
own industrial property in Japan are placed in a very uncertain position.
V. FUTURE PROBLEMS
More recently there has been much talk about the necessity of bring-
ing into Japan foreign capital for the economic and industrial rehabilitation,
C 6 )

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
and concrete steps are to be taken to that end. And for the induction of
foreign capital, it has been strongly desired that the system be re-instituted
for the application for and registration of foreign-owned patents, and the
way be opened for Japanese manufacturers to make use of foreign techniques
under contract with the owners of those patents.
Two Allied Memorauda dated successively September 7, 1948 and
October 5, 19 1s have removed the ban on the application for and registra-
tion of new industrial property rights by persons residing abroad. By these
Memoranda the Director General of the Board of Patents was authorized
as from September 1, 194, to accept and process under existing Japanese
ind istrial property laws concerned, applications for patents, utility models,
desigas and trade marks by a y person outside of Japan, with such priority
rights as are provided by the Interoational Convention for the Protection
of Industrial Property.
At the sume time the Japaiese Government is directed to repeal the
pro isios of Articles i. . S. 1 asd 7 of the War-Time Law of Industrial
Property. The, the charmels of communication with foreign countries have
reopened conceraing these industrial property rights.
This is an epochai measure for Japan still under military occupation,
permitting her to import new inventions and techniques of the West, and
as such it is highly appreciated by the Government and industrial circles of
the country. The Government is taking the necessary steps to repeal a
part of the War-Time Industria! Property Law in compliance with the
above-mentioned directive.
What was desired by Japan concerning industrial property has now
been largely realized. The directive covers all new inventions and utility
models that have been applied in a certain country member of the Inter-
national Convention since September 1, 1947 and also trade marks and
designs duly applied since March 1, 1948. However, the present measure
does not extend the priority rights to the applications submitted in foreign
countries before those dates. It is confidently hoped that this matter will
be also disposed of speedily and with understanding. We take the liberty
of stating hereunder the major problems of industrial property that con-
front Japan in the future.
(a) Restoration of Industrial Property to Allied Nationals
During the war some of the rights owned by United Nations nationals
. （ 7 )

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
were nullified owing to: (1) cancellation under the War-Time Law; (2)
expiration of the terms; (3) non-payment of patent or registration fees.
For the restoration of these rights it will be necessary to promulgate de-
tailed rules to provide the criteria for such restoration. According to pre-
cedents, such rules are stipulated by the peace treaty. But if the matter
is to be solved without waiting for the conclusion of the treaty, the criteria
to take the place of treaty provisions will have to be set up.
. With the repeal of the War-Time Law and the restoration of foreign-
owned industrial property, those Japanese, who have been using those rights
nullified for the above-mentioned reasons, (1), (2) and (3), and those specially
designated Japanese, firms which have operated under the licenses for ex-
clusive use under War-Time Law will be deprived of the basis for their
operation rights, which would mean sometimes serious losses not only to
themselves alone but also to the country itself now on its way to economic
reconstruction. Inasmuch as these firms have been operating properly under
domestic law, it is hoped their position will receive special consideration.
As regards the rights the Japanese industrialists had obtained by con-
tract before the war with regard to foreign-owned industrial property, it
is not clear what effect the war might have had on the validity of the
contracts. But it is also desired that an arrangement will be made so as
to permit the continued exercise of these rights.
(b) Protection of Foreign-owned Industrial Property
Japan is, of course, committed to strict observance of the International
Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, to which she has been
a signatory ever since 1899. Criticism is frequently voiced against Japan
on the score of scant regard for industrial property. Discussions on the
subject have been held with Allied authorities, and the conclusion is that
it is essential to cultivate among the people the sense of respect for in-
corporeal rights. ' The Japanese Government is determined to do everything
for guiding the nation in the right direction with respect to this point.
The following are some of the questions now under study.
(i) In Japan, as in other countries, infringement of patent rights
is prosecutable only on complaints of the injured party, while that of
trade marks is liable to prosecution by the public prosecutor. In any
case, Japan has been criticized for the slowness of her court procedure.
In view of the vital interests of the parties concerned it is a problem
C 8 )

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
how far the procedure can be simplified or expedited. It is the inten-
tion of the Japanese Government to investigate the points of revision
as part of the general question of legal proceedings by taking into
consideration the examples in other countries.  For one thing, it is
considered advisable to assign to courts officials who are versed on the
subject of industrial property.
(ii) The penalties under the Japanese Patent Law and Trade
Mark Law are not believed to be so light as compared with other
countries. But as a means of deepening the sense of respect for in-
corporeal rights it may be expedient and effective to make the penalties
heavier. There is the Unfair Competition Prevention Law (Law No.
14, 1914: which is based on the provisions of the International Con-
vention for the Protection of Industrial Property (Article 10, Paragraph
2). But this law does not fully achieve the purposes of prevention
and control of violations of industrial property rights. Investigations
are being carried on into the matter of setting up more detailed pro-
visions and heavier penalties.
(c) Application in Foreign Countries for Registration of Industrial
Property owned by Japanese.
It is not known how many Japanese industrial property rights have
 been applied for and registered in foreign countries. But there is no doubt
that the actual royalties on such rights have amounted to a considerable
sum.
The advent of inventions by Japanese capable of contributing to the
promotion of peace industries and the welfare of maikind is desirable not
only for Japan but also for the entire world.
It is expected that there will be many Japanese who would wish to
apply for patents, including those who want to patent the inventions they
made during the war years. Of course, the question of the foreign-owned
rights in Japan will have to be first settled. But at the same time, it is
hoped that this matter of Japanese patent applications in foreign countries
will be considered in due course.
C 9 )

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
ANNEX I.
War-Time Law of Industrial Property
(Promulgated on July 21st, 1917, as
Law No. 21 of the year 1917 and en-
forced as from September 15th 1917.)
Ar/icl 1. In respect of an application or a demand relating to an
industrial property made by an enemy national, a patent or registration
thereof shall be stayed during the war-time.
When an invention, a design or a device under application or demand
mentioned in the preceding paragraph has come to fall under any one of
the following items during the war-time, a patent or registration shall not
be granted in respect to its application or demand :
1. Those have been publicly known or publicly used within the
Empire.
2. Those have been described in publications cireulated in the
Empire in such a manner that it can be easily put in use.
Articl 2. An enemy national may not demand a trial, an appeal trial
or take an action against a judgment in an appea! trial during the war-
time, relating to industrial property.
Articl 3. No enemy national may claim a right of priority under
the provisions of Art. 1 of the International Convention for the Protection
of Industrial Property, against a patent right that comes into existence
during the war-time.
Article I. If it is necessary either for military purpose or the public
interests in view of the present conditions, a patent right or registration
of trade mark belonging to an enemy national, may be cancelled by order.
Artich . A person who is granted to use a patented inyention belong-
ing to an enemy national may use it exclusively. The same shall apply to
a patented invention which has been cancelled under the provisions of the
precedingArticle.
The duration of a right of exclusive use referred to in the foregoing
paragraph shall be the period prescribed within the limits of the remainder
of the term of the said patent right. Provisions relating to necessary
( 11 )

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
matters in respect of the right of exclusive use shall be made by Imperial
Ordinance.
Article 6. A trade mark, identical with, or similar to any trade mark
of which registration has been cancelled under the provísion of Art. 4,
and intended to be used for the same merchandise, shall not be registered.
Article 7. The provisions of the preceding 6 Articles apply mutatis
mutandis to an application, a demand, an action, a patent right of a trade
mark right belonging to other than an enemy national, of which the in-
terests are dominantly attributable to an enemy national.
Article 8. Provisions relating to the necessary matters at the end of
war shall be made by Imperial Ordinance.
Article 9. Any person who has infringed the right of exclusive use
specified in this Law shall be punished with penal servitude for a period
not exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding one thousand yen.
Supplementary Provision
The date of enforcement of this Law shall be fixed by Imperial Ordi-
nance.
C12)

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
5,
ANNEX II.
List of Industrial Property registered in the Names of Foreign Nationals
as of December 7, 1941 (Submitted to G.H.Q. in compliance with
13-July-1946 and 28-August-1947 Directives)
Nationality
Patents
Utility
.Designs
Trade
Total
models
marks
冰
Argentine
9
1
3
13
Armenia
2
2
Australia
9
16
25
Austria
30
2
1
70
103
Belgium
18
5
38
61
Brazil
1
1
Canada
30
2
50
82
China
11
3
10
86
110
Cuba
1
8
9
Czechoslovakia
43
3
131
177
Denmark
63
5
38
106
Esthonia
2
2
Finland
2
1
3
France
244
22
2
972
1,240
England
477
81
26
3,445
4,029
Greece
4
4
Germany
4,522
1,173
26
4,291
10,012
Holland
162
6
4
512
684
Hungary
7
2
10
19
*
India
1
33
34
Iraque
1
1
Iran
1
2
3
Italy
104
13
1
119
237
Latvia
1
3
4
Liechtenstein
2
2
Luxemburg
5
2
2
9

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
Mexico
1
1
2
*
New Zealand
8
8
Norway
32
3
19
54
Poland
10
3
13
Portugal
1
1
Philippines
4
4
Rumania
2
2
1
5
Spain
5
3
1
39
48
Sweden
188
24
151
363
Switzerland
561
30
2
864
1,457
Syria
8
8
Trinidad
2
2
*
Turkey
1
1
U. S. A.
1,982
562
20
4,730
7,294
Soviet Union
5
1
6
*
Yugoslavia
2
2
Total
8,530
1,944
95
15,671
26,240
(* United Nations member)
i
( 14 )

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
sc/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: April 12, 1949
SUBJECT:
Disoosition of Jauanese-owned patents outside Japan.
894.542/4-1249
PARTICIPANTS: L/E - Mr. Stanle/ Metzger
EP - Mrs. Selma G. Ka lis
IR - Hr. Rover C. Dixon
IR - Mr. Joseph A. Greenvald
IR - Mr. Sigmund Goloblatt
COPIES TO:
NA - Mr. Hemmendinger
L/E - Mr. Metzger
uP - Mrs. Kaljis
ITP - Mr. Schaetzel
1-1603
The meeting was called to diseuss the problem of working
out an greement concerning the disoosition of Jacanese-owned
patents outsice Jaran, in viow of the Russian rejection of
Fuc 3ll, dealing with this subject.
The follo ing methoos for rriving at a solution to this
problem Were considered:
I. To aroroach a selected number of governments through
CS
our missions in orcer to arrive at a multilateral agreement
by an exchange of notes. It was uecided that this would be
jmoractical.
A
2. To negotiate a formal accord siniler to the London
Patent Accord.  This was believed to be unduly comelicated in
view of the small number of Japanese n tents involved.
894.542
3. It was agreed that the best a pproach would be to
obtain final OaP concurrence in the substance of FEc 3ll/7 as
firm United States nolicy. hen anoroved by the OaP, the paper
would be subiitted to the Embassies in Washington of the ten
FEC members who anproved Füc 3i1. hen agreed unon by these
foreign governments, the policy woulo then be submitted to the
APR191949
Washington Embassies of non-FsC countries, Fiving them an
FILL
力
opportu ity to adhere to the agreement.
-1249
010H
R10
md
ITP:IR:SGo1oblatt:s1
sy
140848

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.95)
RCD
Action Assigned'to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
Action Thren
Enc.attl
4-25-49
211949
Date of Action
United States Political Adviser
DEPARTMENT OF SPATE
Action Office Sybel LTf-/R for Japan
Rep
Name of Officer
Tokyo, Aprid thb ok949
No. 223
Fiw
Direction to DC/R
ITE TRADE POLICY
APR 2 0 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject:
Transmission of Memorandum for Japanese Governient
on Procedures for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals
D
19
STLION
894.542/4-1349
The Acting Political Adviser for Japan has the honor to
refer to this Mission's despatch No. 194 dated April 1, 1949,
regarding the revalidation and restoration of patents in Japan
owned by foreign nationals.
1/
There is now enclosed a copy of a memorandum (SCAPIN 1990)
dated April 8, 1949, sent to the Japanese Government by General
1
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers (SCAP),
211
Tokyo, and entitled "Procedures for Restoration of Patents,
aiD
2/
Utility Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals." Also enclosed
COM
is a copy of a press release on this subject issued April 1l,
1949, by the Public Information Office, General Headquarters,
Far Last Command, Tokyo.
XR
4
As stated in the press release, Brigadier General Patrick
H. TANSEY, Civil Property Custodian, SCAP, considers SCAPIN 1990
as being one of the most important directives issued to the Jap-
anese Government with respect to restitution of Allied proper-
ties. The order will affect approximately 5,000 patents, util-
800.5429
ity models, and designs which had been registered in Japan prior
to the war.
SCAPIN 1990 is also important because it removes an important
obstacle to foreign investment in Japan by permitting foreign
nationals to register patents, et cetera, developed abroad as
early as 1940, and to have such patents accorded the same pro-
tection by the Japanese Government as those now subject to re-
validation and restoration. As procedures have already been
developed whereby foreign patentees may enter into licensing
agreements with Japanese manufacturers, "it is expected that there
will be a substantial renewal of business relations between Jap-
anese concerns and those in Allied countries," according to the
press statement.
Enclosures:
1.
Copy of SCAPIN 1990 dated
April 8, 1949, entitled
"Procedures
APR 28 1949
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NQTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo' s Despatch No. 223,
April 13, 1949.
-2-
"Procedures for Restoration of
Patents, Utility Models, and De-
signs to Allied Nationals.
/2.
Copy of Press Release dated April 11,
1949.
Parchment Mat to Department
Copy to American Embassy, Nanking
Copy to American Embassy, London
Copy to American Coneulate General, Shanghai
Copy to American Consulate General, Hong Kong
503
CHBoehringer:rc
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 164 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Jespatch No. 223
dated April 13, 1949, /rom United States
Political Adviser to Japan, Tokyo, on
UNCLASSIFIED
the subject "Transmission of Memorandum
for Japanese Government on Procedures
for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG O72 (8 Apr 49) CPC/FP
8 April 1949
SCAPIN 1990
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Procedures for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals
1. The Japanese Government is directed to provide the neces-
sary procedures to implement the provisions of this memorandum
relative to patents or patent applications previously owned or
applied for by Allied nationals and to certain new applications
for patents to be filed by Allied nationals in the future.
2. In this memorandum the following definitions and expla-
nations are applicable:
a. "Allied national" means a person whose property was
treated as enemy property by the Japanese Government, or whose
property rights lapsed owing to the existence of hostilities be-
tween Japan and the country of that national.
b. "Effective date of loss" applicable to the patents or
applications therefor of Allied nationals means the date of entry
of the country of that national into war with Japan. When the
date of entry into war is clearly inapplicable to the case of a
particular Allied national, as defined above, the "effective date
of loss" shall be interpreted to mean the actual date of sequestra-
tion of his patent or the date on which his patent rights lapsed.
c. In paragraph 5 hereof the phrase in which the term,
"bona fide manufactured, used, sold, or leased," is used, is de-
fined to mean:
(1) Manufacture, use, sale, or lease of
an invention which was made independently
of the applicant for the patent or the
person from whom he derived title, or,
(2)
Manufacture, use, or sale which com-
menced before the first filing of an
application by the person to whom a
patent is subsequently granted.
3. a. Patents
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
EnclosureNo. l to
Despatch No. 223,
April 13, 1949.
-2 -
3. a. Patents existing in Japan on the effettive date of
loss or granted thereafter on applications filed before that
date, which were owned, or had been applied for, by Allied natio-
nals and which have since lapsed, or have been invalidated or se-
questrated or otherwise taken away from such owners without their
free consent, shall be revalidated and restored upon request there-
for made by the Allied national owners. With respect to such re-
quests the following provisions shall apply:
(1) The owner of a patent so revalidated
and restored shall be entitled to all
the rights and privileges to which any
national of any country is entitled
under the Japanese patent law existing
at the time of such restoration.
(2)
Payment of any special or regular fees
that may have accrued to the Japanese
Government with respect to such patents
from the effective date of loss to date
of such restoration shall not be re-
quired.
b. At the request of the Allied national owner, a period
of duration of any Japanese patent owned by him on the effective
date of loss or granted thereafter on application filed before
that date, shall be extended beyond its normal expiration date
for a period equal to that from the effective date of loss to
the effective date of restoration or to the normal expiration
date of the patent, whichever is the earlier. Such extension will
only be granted, however, provided such owner waives all claims
to royalties for use of the patent from the effective date of loss
to the effective date of restoration and remits to the Japanese
Government any funds received by him or credited to him in a blocked
account as royalties for such use.
c. If an Allied national requests restoration of his pa-
tent under paragraph 3a above, hs may elect to receive royalties
for use of the patent during the period from the effective date of
loss to the effective date of restoration or to the normal date
of expiration, whichever is the earlier, in lieu of an extension
of term as provided in paragraph 3b above.
d. Applications filed by Allied nationals for patents
in Japan whioh were pending on the effective date of loss and on
which patents were not issued shall, upon request of the Allied
national applicant, be reinstated as pending applications in the
Japanese Patent Office, and shall be processed in acccrdance with
law. Any patents thereafter registered on such applications shall
be treated in a manner which conforms generally with applicable
provisions of 3a above.
4. Nationals of countries at war with Japan who had duly
filed
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Despatch No. 223,
April 13, 1949.
-3-
filed in any country the first application for patent not earlier
than twelve (12) months before the effective date of loss shall
be entitled to apply for corresponding rights in Japan with rights
of priority based upon the previous first filing of the applica-
tion.
5. Third parties who had bona fide manufactured, used, sold,
or leased the subject matter of any Japanese patent obtained under
the provisions of paragraph 4 hereof shall not be liable for in-
fringement on account of such use, but should be enabled to continue
such use after the publication of the application under the terms
of a non-exclusive license which the Allied owner shall be required
to grant on terms providing for reasonable royalties.
6. The Allied patent owner will be afforded a period of one
(1) year, conmencing 1 May 1949, within which to make his request
for revalidation and restoration, and for acquiring such priority
rights as defined in paragraph 4 above, and a reasonable time there-
after to perform all legally required acts in connection with re-
storation, revalidation, working, and/or maintenance of his rights
which have not been performed since the effective date of loss.
7. The provisions set out above with respect to patents will
be applied insofar as applicable to utility models and to designs.
8. The Japanese Government will take necessary steps effectively
to implement the above instructions.
9. The Japanese Government is further directed as follows:
a. To provide adequately for the full disclosure of the
invention which is the subject of a patent or patent application,
without regard to intent of the patentee or applicant.
b. To take positive steps for prohibiting the maintenance
in seerecy of any invention which is the subject of a patent or
patent application.
10. The Japanese Government is further directed to invalidate
all provisions of the "Wartime Law of Industrial Property" and sup-
plementary legislation pertaining thereto, which are now in force.
1l. The Japanese Government will submit to General Headquar-
ters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers for approval, not
later than twenty-one (21) days from the date hereof, proposed
legislation, Cabinet orders, and/or Ministerial orders setting out
the laws, procedures, and practices intended to carry out the pro-
visions of this memorandum.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R.M.LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
UNCLASSIFIED
Adjutant General.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Enelesure No. 2 to Despatch No. 223
dated April 13, 1949 from United States
Political Adviser,for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Transmission of Memorandum
UNCLASSIFIED
for Japanese Government on Procedures
for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
FAR EAST COMMAND
Public Information Office
April 11, 1949
Press Release:
ALLIED NATIONALS PATENT RIGHTS TO BE RESTORED
Patent properties in Japan owned by Allied nationals will
be revalidated and restored to their owners upon request, under
the terms of a SCAP directive issued today to the Japanese govern-
ment.
One of the most important directives relating to restitution
of Allied properties, according to Brig. Gen. Patrick H. Tansey,
Civil Property Custodian, the order will affect approximately 5,000
patents, utility models, and designs which had been registered in
Japan prior to the war.
Most of the patent property rights involved had been terminated
by the Japanese government under the terms of the Wartime Law of
Industrial Property, or had been cancelled for non-payment of re-
quired annual fees, or had lapsed by passage of the 15 year period
of duration.
Revalidation at the request of the owmers will put these pa-
tent property rights back into a state of validity, and their life
terms may be extended upon request for a period equivalent to that
during which the owners had lost control.
Extension of the term of a patent, however, will be at the
option of the owner who may otherwise elect to recover in lieu of
extension any funds which have been deposited or set aside as roy-
alties by the Japanese manufacturer for use of the invention with-
out authority during the war.
Extension of the terms of Allied patents when chosen by their
owners as an alternative to the recovery of royalties for wartime
use will be the basis for new contractual agreements with Japanese
manufacturers for use of Allied inventions in the future.
A number of American, British, and French concerns have in-
dicated readiness to invest capital in Japanese industry and to
assist Japanese manufacturers with foreign patents but have hesi-
tated to do so because of the lack of protection of their patented
inventions in Japan up to the present time.
As protection
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclesure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 223,
April 13, 1949.
- 2 -
As protection of foreign patent property rights must apply
not only to prewar inventions but to those patented developments
made abroad during the war, the Japanese government has also been
ordered to accept and process applications for patents with a right
of priority based on applications filed in other countries as early
as 1940 and ultimately registered. In case patents were issued
to Japanese during this period covering similar inventions, the
Board of Patents has been ordered to grant a priority to the Al-
lied inventors.
SCAP's patent property director, J. E. Jackson, pointed out
that the new directive provides wide protection to Allied patentees
as it covers the revalidation, restoration, and extension of pre-
war patents in Japan and further, priority filing of more recent
inventions patented in Allied countries.
To effectuate the patent property program which has been sent
to the Japanese government it was ordered that the Wartime Law of
Industrial Property be repealed in all its parts and further, that
the Board of Patents eliminate all possibility of secrecy in con-
nection with patent property registered in Japan. Full disclosure
of all details essential to the operation of a patented invention
is also required in all future patent property registrations.
One of the most serious obstacles to foreign investment in
Japan has been removed by the restoration of Allied patentees'
rights under this directive, which will be administered by the
Civil Property Custodian. As procedures have already been de-
veloped whereby patentees may enter into licensing agreements with
Japanese manufacturers it is expected that there will be a sub-
stantial renewal of business relations between Japanese concerns
and those in Allied countries.
The Japanese government is now engaged in affectuating the
patent property policy directive through appropriate procedures.
Patent property owners in Allied countries desiring informa-
tion concerning procedures to be followed in recovering and es-
tablishing patent property rights under the new program should
communicate with their diplomatic missions in Japan.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
Pot
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES
2
ORARIES
1949 18 Apr11 199
051
FESTAFE
RCD
No. 61
Action Taken
11949
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Patent Properties in Japan
Date of Action
LEGAL ADVISERa aff1o0 symbol
IR
The Honorable
Name of Officer
Washington
for
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
AUC 3 1949
I have the honor to transmit Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers Press Release dated 12 April 1949,
"Patent Property Program", and Memorandum for the Jap-
of State
anese Government dated 8 April 1949 concerning "Proce-
dures for Restoration of Patents, Utility Models, and
Designs to Allied Nationals." Also enclosed is copy
of unclassified cable No. 53 to the Department from
this Delegation dated 18 April 1949 regarding proce-
94.542/4-1849
duree instituted by the Civil Property Custodian for
the restoration of patent property rignts in Japan.
In view of the time limitation for initiating restora-
tion procedures, the Office of the Civil Property Custo-
1920
dian stresses the need for widest publicity on this
policy which affecte the American owners of approximately
3,lo0 patents registered in Japan at the outbreak of the
war.
Respectfully yours,
Sharlee L. Hodge
INTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
Charles L. Hodge
erc.att.
Chief
MAY 3 5 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
08/H
894.542
Enclosures:
AUG1 1949
FILED
1.
SCAP Press Release, 12 Apr 49 "Patent Property
Program"
2.
Memo for Japanese Gov., 8 Apr 49 AG O72, CPC/FP
SCAPIN 1990
4-1849
161666

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
RCD
ÂCTION CO
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
IMCOMING TELEGRAM
4
PLAIN
A
LIL-IR
Action: ITP
Datetion
Info
Action Ofrice
E
FE
Name of Officer
L
OLI
Direction to DC/R
10:13 a.m.
CIA
OFD
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
53, April 18 (Army Message)
FROM OUSPRD, PASS TO DEPT OF STATE SIGNED HODGES.
Reference FLc policy directive restcra:ion of patent
properry righte in Japan.
Civil Propercy Custedian has established folloving
894.542/4-1849
procedure: Fatent csrer to make direct inquiry to
Cre regarding revalidation of paten's or titie to
accumulated oyalties. CPC to reply direct to patent
owner giving sufficient informatlon to initiate appro-
priate action to protect his rights and instruetion
to file demend for reatoration with this deiega lcn.
Ail correspondence after initial incuiry and reply to
be through this delegation.
In view time limivation for initiating restoratlon, CPC
reques's widest publicity be given this subject with
Instruction to make early inquiry to C?C regarding
patent property. Approximately 31oo American-ovned
ITP/L
patents affected
respatch follows vith ScAP press
release and memcrurdum to Japanese Government.
/RACT
INFORMATIO:
ITP
1949 APR 18
C
WMH: ECV
INTERNATION
I
PED
AP
P
OFFICE OF
H
PR 26 1949
PM 4
RADE
3
ESA TER
PLAIN
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16-52018-1

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.96)
RCD
PLANTS: MARCUS HOOK, PA.• ROANOKE, VA.- LEWISTOWN, PA.
OFFICES: PHILADELPHIA·CHARLOTTE·CLEVELAND
PARKERSBURG, W. VA.- NITRO,W. VA.· MEADVILLE, PA.
NEW YORK - PROVIDENCE -WASHINGTON
FRONT ROYAL, VA.- FREDERICKSBURG, VA.
Date of Action
AMERICAN VISCOSE CORPORATTOR
JAC
INTERNATI TRAE PO
File: M 44.20
Mr. Edwin M. Martin,
APR 20 1949
19 April 1949
Office of International Trade Policy,
Department of State,
State Department Annex #7,
2lst & C Streets, N. W.,
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Martin:
Re: Your IR
894.542/4-1949
I wish to thank you for your letter or 13 April 1949, answering
the question on the status of Japanese patents. I appreciate the information
you have given me and am glad to know how the subject stands.
There is one element of the question, however, which is not answer-
ed. With regard to question #3, you say "it is assumed that you are referring
either to Japanese-owned patents in the United States which have been vested,
or patents in Japen formerly owned by American nationals."
I am glad to have the information on these two points, but I.wo uld
like to know also the status of the general bulk of Japanese patents issued
pre-war regardless of American interest or connection. The patent system, as
you know, is of tremendous value in affording classified disclosures of in-
vention. Other nations are combing our technology for everything they can
obtain from us. At the same time, I learned, on the Textile Mission to Japan,
that the Japanese had contributed many interesting inventions in the textile
field. One channel of normal intercourse between our two countries would be
CS/FK
free access to patents in Japan which, of course, in normal times are public.
During the war, the Japanese patents were seized. and when I tried to look up
specific patents about which I had learned in the industry in Japan, I found
that they could not be obtained in Tokyo for they had been moved to Washington.
I found in Washington that they were in Central Intelligence, and while I
succeeded in obtaining photostat copies of the specific ones I sought, it was
only after considerable difficulty. Here was the situation where we seized
FILED
public property and put it under a vail of secrecy.
0
I hope that by this time anyone can obtain a copy of any Japanese
patent under the normal operation of the patent system, and I would appreciated
your advising on this point, in addition to the information which you so kindly
have furnished.
With best wishes, I am
INTERNATIONAL RESAURUES DIVISION
Oyte D Robed Jr.
Sincerely yourg,
kuRots
APR 00 1040
174647
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
HWR/a
H. Wickliffe Rose

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
131949
ly dear r. ose:
heference is made to your 1etter of 4pril 19, 1949
regarding the status of Ja anese pre-war patents. In your
letter you requested further information concerning the
availability of copies of Japanese patents.
Under normal pre-war exchange arrangements between the
United  tates and Ja anese ratent Uffices, Japanese patents
were made available in this country for puolic disserination.
Photostatic copies of thesc prewar Japanese patents can be
obtained by ccmmunicating with the Scientific Library, U. S.
ratent ffice, ashin ton 25, D. C., Altention: r. . . Chapin.
Some of thesc patents have been indexed in the publications of
894.542/4-1949
the Ifice of Technical  ervices, Department of Commerce.
The wartime Japanese patents have now, for the most part,
bee. transferred fron the Central Intelligence Agency to the
Scientific Library, U. . atent Office. Photostatic copies
0.
of these patents can c obtained by comaunicating with that
office.
You will note that aragraph 1 of Far Jastern Commission
Press :clease o. 52, enclosed with my letter of April 13,
provides for the resumption of the publication of Japanese
atents. In this comection, the U. . Patent Office is taking
the necessar steps to resume the normal peacetime exchane with
the Javanese Patent uffice.
C8/FL
Please do not hesitate to call upon me if I can be of further
assistance to you.
Sincerely yours,
894.542/4-1949
EM.
Cya  Phals J
dwand.artin
Deputy Director
MAY 13 1949 P.M.
Office of Internationtrade Policy
r. . ic liffe ose,
American Viscose Corporation,
1617 Pennsylvania Boulevard,
RLDgML.
Philadelphia 3, Pennsylvania.
ITP: IR:JMLightman:prg
5-9-49

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
Form DS.10
Department of
Date
6-1-45
State
REFERENCE SLIP
To:
Advise
Note & Return
Approse & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Telephone Talk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Recommend Action
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Recurn to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
Hold
Signature Required
Initials Needed
See M
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
we fird that this
wwos answered l
8of
Signn yeebltt
I 0n3/30. His
eftension is 5913.
From
MICHAEL H. CAHDOZO
This Form Printed on Salvaged Stock

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY171949
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Kingsland:
At the request of the Japanese Government, I am
transmitting herewith a letter from the Japanese Board
of Patents requesting information concerning applications
for patents, designs and trace-marks in the United
States by Japanese nationals.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of States
was
894.542/4-2649
Winthrop G. Brown
Direetor, Office of
Internationai Trade Poliey.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
—wK
894.542
Es
lust
Mr. Lawrence C. Kingsland,
CS/H
Commissioner of Patents,
Department of Commerce.
NA
4-2649
MAY 10 1949 P
1ir:IR:JAGreenwald:sl
5-9-49

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.92)
MAY 17 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
No.34
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Bucharest.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Rumania.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Rumanian Patent Office.
Enclosure:
Lotter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
894.542/4-2649
2人.
55
UNCLASSIFIED
A true essy of
tihe sgmed crie
MAY 10 1949P M.
MAY 18 1999
Lae
Rec
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:sl
NA
5-9-49
4-2649

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
71949
UNCLASSIFIED
No.19
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Sofia.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Bulgaria.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Bulgarian Patent Office.
894.542/4-2549
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
Enn
S
UNCLASSIFIED
t
894.542/4-264
MAY 10 1949P..
MAY 16 1949
lut
CS/H
pes
NA
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
5-9-49

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.93)
MAY 171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No.45
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Warsaw.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Poland.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Polish Patent Office.
Enclosure:
894.542/4-2649
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
—24
Exa
UNCLASSIFIED
the angeret cnte-
MAY 10 1949P. M.
894.542/4-264
MAY 16 1949
CS/H
wo
294
Ries
NA
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
5-9-49

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 33
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Praha.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Czechoslovakia.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Czech Patent Office.
Enclosure:
894.542/4-2649
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542/4-26
dnac
MAY 10 1949P M.
CS/H
ut
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
NA
5-9-49

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 109
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Habana.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patent:, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Cuba.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Cuban Patent Office.
Enclosure:
894.542/4-2649
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
UNCLASSIFIED
171949
A tras eupy of
the aed are
894.542/4.2649
CS/H
MAY 10 1949P. M.
Ren
NA
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:sl
5-9-49
7

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.93)
MAY 17 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
No.101
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Budapest.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Hungary.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Hungarian Patent Office.
Enclosure:
894.542/4-2649
Letter fror Japanese
Board of Patents.
35
UNCLASSIFIED
à tree eopy of
the s erie
894.542
MAY 10 1949P. M.
ut
L6 1G40
1o8
CS/H
RCD
NA
ITP:IR:J/Greenwald:sl
4-264
5-9-49

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY 171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 22
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Dublin.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Ireland.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Irish Patent Office.
Enclosure:
894.542/4-2649
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
55
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542/4-2649
CS/H
MAY 10 1949P. M.
ur.
RcD
NA
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
59-49

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY 171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 23
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Beirut.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Lebanon.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Lebanese Patent Office.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
894.542/4-2649
Board of Patents.
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542
MAY 10 1940P. M.
MAY 16 1949
wt
ReD
NA
CS/H
ITP:IR:JACFeenwald:s1
5-9-49
4-264

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY 171949
UNCLASSIFIED
21
No.
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Damascus.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Syria.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
894.542/4-2549
the Syrian Patent Office.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542/4-2649
CS/H
MAY 10 1949P.M.
wit
04
pen
NA
ITP:IR:JACreenwald:s1
5-9-49

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
MAY 17 1949
No. 51
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Ankara.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Turkey.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
894.542/4-2649
the Turkish Patent Office.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
Eih
s3
Ae
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542
MAY 10 1949 P. M.
MAY 16 1949
t
Reo 
NA
CS/H
ITP:IR:JAgreenwald:s1
4.2649
5-9-49

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY 1 7 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
38
No.
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Belgrade.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requ sting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Yugoslavia.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Yugoslav Patent Office.
894.542/4-2649
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
2
Ein
UNCLASSIFIED
894.542/4-2649
10 1949P.M.
MAY
MAY 16 19
CS/H
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
NA
5-9-49
7P

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.95)
MAY171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No.184
To the
Berlin.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Western Germany.
The enclosed letter is apparently addressed to the
old German Patent Office in Berlin. If the Political
Adviser perceives no objection, it is requested that the
894.542/4-2649
enclosed letter be transmitted to the appropriate patent
agency for the Bizonal area.
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
—MC
Edn
E S
UNCLASSIFIED
894.5421
CS/H
MAY 10 1949R M.
MAY
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
NA
5-9-49

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
MAY171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 62
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Vienna.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Board of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
by Japanese nationals in Austria.
If the Legation perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Austrian Patent Office.
894.542/4-2649
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
Eaa
55
UNCLASSIFIED
89
CS/H
MAY 10 19491. M.
4.542/4-26
MAI 16 1949
ITP:IR:JAGteenwald:s1
5-9-49
NA

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY 171949
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 48
To the
Officer in Charge of the American Mission,
Ciudad Trujillo.
The Secretary of State encloses a letter from the
Japanese Bo rd of Patents requesting information concern-
ing applications for patents, designs and trade-marks
hy Japanese nationals in the Dominican Republic.
If the Embassy perceives no objection, it is
requested that the enclosed letter be transmitted to
the Patent Office of the Dominican Republic.
894.542/4-2649
Enclosure:
Letter from Japanese
Board of Patents.
Ena
UNCLASSIFIED
the 
894.542/
MAY 10 1949P. M.
CS/H
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
5-9-49
MA171949
NA

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
for Japan
Tokyo, App  26, 1949.
594.52/
RCD
No. 258
Action A.
149 ten
UNCLASSIFIED
Action To
ans d comspatet
REC'D
MAY 2
5/9/49
106100
ACTION
SUBJECT:
ITP
Board of Patents.
file
894.542/4-2649
INFO
FR
DCR
FE
L
The Acting Political Adyiser has the bonor to transmit at the
request of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers, fifteen letters from the Japanese Government's Board of
Patents regarding foreign patents in Japan and requesting information
on future Japanese patent applications abroad.
m
If no objection is perceived by the Department, it is requested
that these letters be forwarded to the appropriate authorities for
delivery to the addressees indicated on each individual envelope.
One of these is addressed to the Commissioner of Patents, Washington.
There are also letters for the patent offices of each of the following
countries: Germany, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Austria, Syria, Lebanon,
Dominican Republic. Cuba, Turkey, Bulgaria, Eire, Poland, Rumania
and Czechoslovakia.
This Mission, in its capacity as Diplomatic Section, General
Headquarters. Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, has already
forwarded twenty-three similar letters to the foreign Missions
accredited to this Headquarters for onward transmittal to the patent
offices of Great Britain, New Zealand, France, Tunis, Morocco, Tangier.
the Netherlands, Indonesia, Sweden, Mexico, Finland, Greece,
Switzerland, Australia, Portugal, Brazil, Denmark, Canada, Belgium,
Luxembourg, Italy, Spain and Norway.
 NATIONAL TRADE PULICY
OFFICE CF
ENT OF STATE
VAY 5 1949
Enclosures:
Fifteen letters addressed
to Patent Offices listed
in paragraph two.
File
NTERNATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
enc.att
503
MAY 5 1949
RWAdams/bk
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Parchment Mat to the Department
FILED
UNCLASSIFIED
DMR
ACTION COPY

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.95)
271949
In reply refer to
IR
RESTRICTED
My dear Mr. Bazelon:
There is enclosed a paper entitled "Poliey on the
Treatment of Japanese Patents Outside Japan", which
constitutes the Department's position on this subject.
This policy vas acceptable to nine members of the
Far Eastern Commission, but was not passed because of
the dissent of the Soviet delegate. The Department
hopes to discuss the paper with the interested countries
with a view to obtaining an international agreement, and
would appreciate your views in the light of your poliey
894.542/4-2749
regarding this matter.
In order that the adoption of a final policy on this
subject may be expedited, we would appreciate receiving
an early reply from you.
Sincerely yours,
Willard L. Thorp
ar
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Policy on the Treatment
of Japanese Patents
Outside Japan.
894.542
The Honoreble
David L. Bazelon,
Assistant Attorney General
CS/H
Director, Office of Alien Property,
Department of Justice.
PR 21 1949 P.M.
RESTRICTED
Elened
Reancd
Clened
RCD
mphone
ITP:IR:SGoldblatt:s1
ITP
OFD
L/Ege
NA
4-20-49
By
Mr.iAmatt
y
Mr, He—iger

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTI
JUN
LAW OFFICES OF
HARVEY M. GILLESPIE
CABLE ADDRESS
PATENTS
SUITE 3I2O
IOB VEST ADAMS STREET
TRADE MARKS
CHICAGO 3
Aotion Taken
ltx
1 1949
May 27, 1949
Date of Action_6/
Name of officer
Department of St=te
Washington 25, D. C.
Direction to DC/R Fil
Sir:
It is my understanding that the Department of State, under
date of March 29, 1949, issued a Directive to the Supreme
Commander of the Allied Powers regarding the revival and
extension of Japanese patents owned by citizens of the
894.542/5-2749
United States.
I represent a client who owned several Japanese patents
which have evidently lapsed during hostilities. I am
quite anxious to receive information regarding the pro-
cedure necessary to revive and revalidate these patents.
I will appreciate it, therefore, if you can give me any
additional information in regard to the procedure. I
understand that the Japanese Patent Office is not yet
functioning. To whom do I address my Petition or other
form of anplication to obtain formal consideration?
Yours very truly,
Harrey M Millepis
HMG: BS
163592
5
ITERNATIONAL RESOURAES DIVISION
F
2
JUN 1 1949
DEPARTMENT OP STATE
JUN 9 1949
FILED
t。
X
6

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
JUN*8190
In reply refer to
IR 894.542/5-2749
My dear Mr. Gillespie:
894.542/5-2749
The receipt is ac nowledged of your letter of
May 27, 1949 concerning the restoration of patents in
Japan owned by citizens of the United States.
The basic policy concerning the restoration of
patent rights in Japan is contained in the enclosed press
releases. With respect to the procedure for the revalida-
tion or revival of the Japanese patent rights of United
States citizens, I am enclosing an advanced copy of a
notice which will be published shortly in the Official
Gazette of the United States Patent Office. This notice
contains the information you have requested concerning
the address of the office which has been designated to
receive applications for the restoration of patent rights
in Japan. For your information, the Japanese Patent Office
was reopened in September, 1948 and has been receiving
aoplications for new petents since that time.
If there is any further information which you require,
please do not hesitate to communicate with me.
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
For the Acting Secretary of State:
pip
0AH
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
International Resources Division
894.542/5-2749
Enclosures:
1. Press Release No. 198.
2. FEC Press Release
No. 52.
3. Notice re Restoration of
Patent Rights in Japan.
CR
Mr. Harvey M. Gillespie,
Suite 3120,
JUN 8 1949P. M
105 West Adams Street,
14 Chicago 3, Illinois.
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1 6-7-49

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
may 31, 1949
894.547/5-3149g
Patent Bureau
8, 2-chome, Shiba
The Department of Commerce, U.S. Government
Tamura-cho, Minato-ku,
Washington, D.C.
894.542/5-3149
Tokyo
0
U.S.A.
AS/H
Dear Sirs:
NC/R
We refer to the Modern Plastics, No.23 of November, 1945, wherein
AG 241949
this company published a very suggestive article entitled "New Synthesis of
Acrylic Acid". At the end of an article, they put a notation that "The Depart-
ment of Commerce is merely distributing this technical information which has
come into its hands from captured German territcry." "This information should
be made available to all United States citizens interested in it but use of it
by anyone must be and is at one's own risk insofar as the United States or fcreign
patent violations are concerned."
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PRO
We, as a chemical company, are very much interested in the develop-
ment of plastic industry in Japan, but at the same time, wish to take every
precaution not to violate patent right, especially of your country and the allied
countries. We consulted with the American competent officers of General
JUL 5 1949
POLICY
MacArthur's Headcuarters, SCAP, Tokyo and was advised to write to you direct in
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
order to ascertain whether or not this is patented in the United States or any
of the allied countries. They also stated that insofar as German patent problems
are concerned we do not need to afraid very much of using them. The Japanese
authorities reported that all patent rights in the captured Cerman territory are
now possessed by the United States Government. Is it correct? If so, what
procedure shall we have to take to utilize the new synthesis of acrylic acid?
If the royelty problem is involved, to whom shall we have to pay and in what way?
We should be very much obliged if you would kindly enlighten us on
the above respects.
Yours very truly,
For Toa Gosei Chemical Industry Co., Ltd.
. Nagatahi
191932
President
m

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
AUG241948
UNCLASSIFIED
no.199
To the
Office of the Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the enolosed copy of a
letter to the United States Patent Office from Mr. Nagataki,
President of the Toa Gosei Chemical Industry Company, Limited,
8, 2-chome, Shiba, Tamura-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, which was
referred to the Department for reply. Mr. Nagataki requests
information concerning the patent situation with respect to a
"New Synthesis of Acrylio Acid".
The Department would appreciate the Acting Political Adviser's
replying to Mr. Nagataki along the following lines. From the
information supplied by  Mr. Nagataki it is not possible to
transmit any specific information concerning the availability of
894.542/5-3149
the patents covering the "New Synthesis of Aorylic Acid". Certain
technology and patents were obtained ta in Germany during the war
and are now available upon request to the Office of Technical
Services, Department of Commerce. However, as stated in the
article referred to by Mr. Nagataki, the use of this information
must be subject to any patent rights which are still valid.
German patents in Allied countries which were seized during
the war have been made generally available to nationals of
signatory countries under the terms of the London Patent Accord
862.542
on the disposition of German-owned Patents Outside Germany.
Since Japan is, of course, hot a signatory of this Accord, the
5
right to license under these German patents would not be avail-
able to nationals of Japan. However, many countries have placed
German-owned patents in the public domain. In these cases there
would be no bar to importation of goods which were produced under
the German-owned patent. In the United States the German-owned
patents have not been placed in the public domain, and under the
present policies of the Office of Alien Property (in accordance
with the London Patent Accord), licenses to German-owned patents
in the United States would not be available to Japanese nationals.
With respect to German-owned patents in Japan, it should be
pointed out that these patents are presently in the custody of
SCAP pending the ultimate disposition of German external assets.
C
In the event that licenses should be granted in the future under
S
German-owned patents in Japan, it is assumed that SCAP will issue
H
the appropriate press release. Finally, it should be emphasised
that
ap
ap
UNCLASSIFIED
mn

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.94)
33727
that on the basls of the information submitted by Mr. Magatakk,
it is not possible to determine what spesifie patents are
involved and, therefore, it is impossible to answer his
question as to whether or not the prosess is pateated in the
United States or any other Allied country.
Enclosure:
Letter from Toa Gosei
Chemical Industry Company.
 tru nny
FCR
the sind crig
AUG 2319
Inal
UNCLASSIFIED
80m
lus
ITP:TRJAGreahwald:osm
L/E
NA
8-16-49
(Dux)

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
REC'D
JONY 15
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
Action Assigned to
Tokyo, June 6, 1949
Action Taken
OFFICE OF
No. 361
INTERNATIONAL TRADE POLICY
0/27/41
Date of Action
JUN 20 1949
Actlou urrice Symbols
UNCLASSIFIED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Name of Officer
Direction to DC/R Zll
Subject:
Supplementary Information on Procedures
for Restoration of Patent Property in
Japan to Allied Nationals.
94.542349
8
394.542/6-649
1T1
The Chargé d Affaires ad interim has the honor to refer to
this Mission's despatch no. 223 dated April 13, 1949, tranamitting
a copy of a memorandum (SCAPIN 1990) dated April 8, 1949, sent to
the Japanese Government by General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers (SCAP), Tokyo, regarding procedures for re-
storation of patents, utility models, and designs to Allied
nationals.
1/
There is now enclosed a copy of a supplementary memorandum on
the same subject (SCAPIN 1990/1) dated l1ay 16, 1949, and also sent
by SCAP to the Japanese Government, Although the title of this
SCAPIN refers to patent property, the text of the memorandum in-
dicates that the SCAPIN applios also to utility models and designs.
The present SCAPIN directs the Japanese Government to provide
the necessary procedures for rcvalidation and restoration, at the
request of owners, of patents, utility models, and designs existing
in Japan on the effective dato of loss or granted thereafter on
applications filed before thal date, which were owned or had been
applied for by Allied nationals and whieh have since lapsed, or
have been sequestrated, or otherwise taken away from such owners with-
out their free consent. Detailed procedures for restoration of such
properties are included.
INTC RNAFIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
JUN 2 0 1949
Enclosure:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1/ Copy of SCAPIN 1990/1 dated May 16,
1949, on subject "Procedures for Re-
storation of Patent Property in Japan
to Allied Nationals."
Copies to: American Embassy, London
JUN 2 9.194
American Embassy, Nanking
American Consulate General, Shanghai
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
RRm
Parchment Mat to the Department.
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS. WITH A NOTATION OF ACTIGD TAKEN.
503
CHBoehri

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 361
dated June 6, 1949 from the office of
the U. S. Political Adviser ror Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Supplementary
UNCLASSIFIED
Information on Procedures for Re-
storation of Patent Property in Japan
to Allied Nationals."
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 072 (8 Apr 49)CPC/FP
16 May 1949
SCAPIN 1990/1
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Procedures for Restoration of Patent Property in
Japan to Allied Nationals
1. Reference is made to memorandum for the Japanese Govern-
ment, file AG 072 (8 Apr 49)CPC/FP. SCAPIN 1990, 8 Apr11 1949, sub-
ject, "Procedures for Restoration of Patents, Utility Models, and
Designs to Allied Nationals," from General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers
2. The Japanese Govermment is hereby directed to provide the
necessary procedures for revalidation and restoration, at the re-
quest of owners, of patents, utility models, and designs existing
in Japan on the effective date of loss or granted thereafter on
applications filed before that date, which were owned or had been
applied for by Allied nationals and which have since lapsed, or
have been sequestrated, or otherwise taken away from such owners
without their free consent.
3. Patent properties will be rostored in accordance with the
following procedures:
a. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers will forwerd to the Board of Patents a signed "Request for
Information." The Board of Patents will conduct the necessary in-
vestigation to determine the status of the patent property listed
on above-mentioned form. its use in Japan during the period since
effective date of loss, and the amount of any funds deposited or
credited to the name of the owner as royalties. Names and addresses
of all users, and names and locations of all depositories or cre-
ditors will be included in this report, as well as the date of and
reason for termination of the rights of the owner. Reports will be
submitted to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers in conformity with the following:
(1) "Request for Information"
(2)
"Official Report of Status and Use of Allied-
Owned Patent Property" together with
"Certification"
(3) "Royalties
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 361,
June 6, 1949。
-2-
(3) "Royalties Report"
b. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers will subsequently forward to the Board of Patents
a "Demand for Restoration of Patent Property." The Board of
Patents will make necessary changes in its records to indicate
revalidation of property rights and restoration thereof to the
owner.
c. General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers will in some cases forward to the Board of Patents,
in connection with above "Demand for Restoration of Patent Property,"
a "Demand for Extension of Patent Property Rights." Upon receipt
of such demand, the Board of Patents will make necessary changes
in its records to indicate extension of such rights beyond the nor-
mal expiration date.
d. The Board of Patents will forward to General Head-
quarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers a "Certificate
of Restoration" setting forth actions taken under paragraphs b and
c above. Such certificate shall indicate the normal date of ex-
piration, the extended date of expiration, if any, and shall bear
official witness of the fact of restoration of patent property to
its owner. In order to maintain validity after restoration, the
Board of Patents will state on this certificate amount of annual
fees due from the owner and the date payable, for the first year
following restoration.
4. Copies of the above-mentioned forms are enclosed.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M.LEVY
Colonel, AGD
Ad jutant General
6 Incls (For addressee only)
1. "Request for Information" form
2。
"Official Report of Status and
Use of Allied-Owned Patent
Property" form w/"Certification"
form
3。
"Royalties Report" form
4。
"Demand for Restoration of
Patent Property" form
5。
"Demand for Extension of Patent
Property Rights" form
6.
"Certificate of Restoration"
form
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.96)
ReD
Act ion Assigned to
lelter
Action Faken
IA RE
IN REPLY. PLEASE REFER
OFFICE OF ALIEN PROPERTY
HGH:PEL:ON:ER
DEPARTMENT OFUSTICE
JUN 24 1940
019-217
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
I7P:IR
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
1622
June 21, 1949.
EMr. Thorp
Assistant Seoretary
OFEICE OF
Mir. Willard L. Thorp
for Economio Affairs
TRADE POLIGY
Assistant Secretary
JUN 2 3 1949
Department of State
JUN 2 3 1949
Washington 25, D. C.
Department of Stato
DESENT OF STATE
Dear Mr. Thorp:
894.542/4.2749
Consideration has been iven to your letter of April 27, 1949,
and to the draft of the policy on the treatment of Japanese patents
outside Japan.
The general principles of the policy seem to be in line with
those of the London Accord with respect to German patents, and to this
894.542/6-2149
extent are acceptahle to this Office.
There are, however, certain deviations from the London Patent
Accord which should be noted, and which would be contrary to the pres-
ent policy of this Office. These are as follows:
1. In Paragraph 1 is set out a means of making
former Japanese-owmed patents available to
the public by "continuously offering for
an
licensing without royalty, in each case,
without charges or restrictions,".
An administrative charge for licensing formerly enemy-owned patents has
been unifornly required by this Office. It is a nominal charge of
$15.00 for each patent licensed, but the charge has been made over a
long period of time, and we would not desire to change the policy now to
make licenses under Japanese patents available with no charge.
AUG 18 1949
2. An exception to the theory that there shall be
894.542/
FILED
no restriction on licenses says: "except so
far as restriction is necessary to protect
rights which have been lawfully ranted to or
OAH
acquired by any national of a country at war
with Japan".
The hanguage of this exception greatly limits the rights which may be
protected. Many neutral countries were not at war with Japan, and'it
has been the policy of this Office to protect not only the rights of
C
neutral countries, but the rights of nationals of countries which were
not at war with the United States, regardless of whether they were at
U
f
war with the eneny power concerned. We would be opposed to the adoption
H
188583

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Willard L. Thorp
-2-
June 21, 1949.
of any policy which would make it necessary for this Office to disre-
gard the rights of a non-enemy licensee of a Japanese patent simply
because his country did not declare war upon Japan. Paragraph 3 of the
policy makes this discrimination even more pointed suggesting that only
the rights in former Japanese-cwmed patents of nationals of countries
at war with Japan should be protected. Nowhere in the proposed policy
is any provision made for protection of rights of non-enemy nationals
and nationels of countries which were neutral during the war, and for
this reason, it is objectionable to this Office.
In this connection, we believe that the language of the London
Accord might well be applied to Japanese property insofar as the rights
of others than Japanese and eneny nationals are concerned. As an ex-
ample, it is felt that it would be preferable to define the property to
be controlled as "all former, wholly Japanese-owned patents, issued by
a country and in its possession or control under the general law and
regulations relating to Japanese-ovned property", instead of the present
language of Section 1.
We believe that the language providing for licensing "in each
case without char es or restrictions" should be deleted, and such words
as "on the same terms as to the nationals of the licensing country"
substituted.
In place of the exception now in the Article 1 with respect
to restricticns in licenscs, the language of Article 4 of the London
Accord might be substituted, as follows: "except that these provi-
sions shall be subject to the right of each government to take appro-
priate measures to protect and preserve proprietary, license, or other
rights or interests, in such patents which have been lawfully granted
to or acquired by any non-Japanese prior to June 30, 1949."
With respect to Article 4 of the proposed policy, this matter
has already been provided for by the passage of Public Law 380 and the
Regulations of this Office, revised in accordance therewith, 8 CFR
507.26 published at 13 Fed. Reg., page 9511, December 31, 1948.
Very truly yours,
Lavid &. Laydon
David L. Bazelon
Ascistant Attorney Ceneral
Director, Office of Alien Property

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
G.P.C.17
FINAL ACT OF THE CONFERENCE HELD IN
LONDON OF REPRESENTATIVES OF CERTAIN
GOVERNMENTS MEBERS OF I.A.R.A. TO
CONSIDER THE QUESTION OF THE TREATENT
OF GERMAN-OWNED PATENTS.
The Conforonco, vhich vas convoned on the invitation of the Govornmonts
of thc French Republic, tho Unitod Kingdom, and tho United Statos of Ameria,
hold mootings in London betweon tho 15th and 27th July, 1946.
The folloving Dologations participated in tho Conforonoo:-
Delogatos
Advisors
GOVERIREIT OF AUSTRALLA
Mr. H.F.E. Whitlam
Lir. L.B. Davios
GOVERIRENT OF BELCIUM
H. J. Hamels
Earon dc Lettenhovo
GOVERNNINT OF C.NAD.
Dr. E.H. Colcman
Mr. K.J. Burbridgo
Mr. P.H. Russoll
GOVERGENT OF CZECHOSLOVAKIA
M. Culostin Simr
. Frank Kafka
M. V. Sodlacok
. B. Stuchly
H. J. Riogor
ii. F. Vohryzek
M. J. Vojaook
GOVERIMENT OF DERLRK
Lr. Ehronreich-Hanson
Iirs. Janson Simonson
Ifiss Julio Olson
GOVERNEIT OF THE FRENCH
M. R. Monmayou
REPUBLIC
I. E. Mathon
M. P. Droyfus
M. O. Pichot
GOVERNENT OF LUXEMBOURG
M. A. do Muysor
GOVERNENT OF THE
Dr. H. Gelisson
NETHERLINDS
Mr. J. Dyckmcoster
Mr. J. 
Dr. J.M. Fohmors
Dr. h. Koorts
Dr. H. Jonkor
GOVERNENT OF NORWY
lir. Brodo Stabell
Dr. Harald arflot
Mr. Jacquos Raoder
Mr. Johan Holgeland
GOVERNMENT OF TIE UNION
Mr. G.D. Louw
OF SOUTH AFRICA
Mr. E. Swart
or
Mr. D.B. Solo
-1-

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.96)
Delegates
COVERNIENT OF THE
Sir Harold Saundors
UNITED KINGDOM
Hr. B. G. Crewe
Mir. J.L. Blako
GOVERNNT OF TIE UITED
Mr. Caspor . Ooms
STLITES OF ERICN
Hr. Bonnett Boskoy
lir. Francis Browm
lir. John Groen
Kr. Howland H. Sargoant
Mr. Jamos Simsarian
Ir. Robort Torrill.
Sir Harold Saunders (United Kingdom) vas clected Prosidont of tho
Conference, and r. H.. Clarke and Ir. T.H. Hobbs, Secrctarios.
The Conferenee drew up an ccord of which the toxt is set forth in the
nnexe to this inal ct. This iccord was signed on behalf of the Governments
of the French Rupublio, the Notherlands, the United Kingdom and the United
States of  merica. The .ccord remains open for signature until the 31st
December, 1946, on buhalf of all other Governments reprosented at the
Conferenee. Th: Governments of any cther members of the United Nations or of
Noutral Countrius may also become partios to this Accurd. The Delegations of
the Commonwealth of Australia, Canada, Csechoslovakia, and the Union of South
Africa will recommend to their respective Governments that the Accord should
bo signed on their behalf.
The following hesolutions were adopted at the Conferenee:-
Resolution No. 1.
To render possible the fulfilment of the Accord set forth in the Annexe,
cach Goverrment whose Delegation has signed this Final Aet undertakes that,
after tho 1st August, 1946, and until it has decided vhether it will sign
this Accord, it will not soll or transfer, oncumber or restriet its rights
to grant liconses under, or to tako any other action vith regard to, the
patonts reforred to therein, which would interfere vith its ability to carry
out the t.rms of the Accord.
Any Goverrment which decides not to sign the Accord will immediately
communicate its decision to the Government of the United Kingdom, which will
transmit this information to all other Governments represented at the
Conference.
-2-

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.96)
2
The Delegation of Australia vished to record that, while fully in
favour of this Resolution, it vas not ablo to commit tho Governmont of
Australia.
Rosolution No. 2.
Each Delegation will recommend to its Government that tho Delegates of
that Government to the Inter-Allied Reparation Agoncy should be instruoted
to support proposale: (a) that the reparation share of any Governmont, party
to the Accord, cet forth in tho Annexe should not be charged under the
Paris Roparations Agrooment with the value of Gorman rights or interests in
patonte i mued by that Government and made available, vithout royalty, as
provided in Article: 1 and 2 of the Accord and: (b) that, in cases whoro
royalties and ther uns have been or will be received by any Government,
rarty to the lesord, in respeet of German rights or interests in these
patonte, the Inter-illied Reparation igeney should consider whether any, and
if so what, charge should be made against the repara tion share of that
Goverrment.
The Delegations of Belgium, Denmark, Luxombourg and Norway dosired to
record that they coneidored this Rosolution to be so closely connected with
the hccord thit the view of their Governments vith regard to this Rosolution
would depend on the question whether they were prepared to sign the Accord.
The Conference also deeided to record the following:-
1. Subjeet to the statoment of the position of the French and United
Kingdom Delegations as set forth below, it is the view of all Delogations to
the Conference that the programme now in operation for obtaining, analysing
and publiely disseminating Gornan technology and "know-how" has proved of
great common benerit and should be continued. At the suggostion of other
Delogationa, the Delogates of France and the United States vill urge their
Government: to request the military occupation authorities in Germany to give
early consideration to utilising in thic programme, so far as practicable,
trained technical personnel and physical equipment which any other country
represented at the Conference is able to furnish.
-3-

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
2. The Delegation of the United Kingdom, while sharing the view that
the programme now in oporation has proved of great common benefit, and
declaring that the Government of the United Kingdom would continue its
practicc of publishing all information of this character reccived from
Germany, vas unable to participato in any recommondation on this matter
because inere had been no time for tho consultation with tho occupying
authoritios in Germany which the Government of the United Kingdom considorod
to bo necessary.
3. The French Delegation, while associating themsclves wholly with
overything that is stated in paragraph 1 above, added that in this matter
questions of rociprocity should, of course, bo taken into consideration .
IN WITITESS WEREOF the undersigned have signed this Pinal Act.
Done at London this 27th day of July, 1946, in English and French, both
toxts being cqunlly muthentie, in a single copy which vill remain deposited
in the a hives of the United Kingdom.
The Government of the United Kingdom will tranamit to all Governments
reprosented at the Conference cortified copica of this Final Act.
POR AUSTRALLA:
FOR BELGIUM:
FOR CALADA:
FOR CZECHOSLOVAKIA:
-4-

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
FOR DENBLLRK:
FOR THE FRENCH REPUBLIC:
FOR LUXEMBOURG:
FOR THE NETHERLANDS:
FOR NORLLY:
FOR THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA:
FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM:
FOR TIE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:
-5-

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
ANNEXE
ACCORD
The Governments on whose behalf the present Accord is signed:
Desiring to make arrangements with regard to former German-owned
patents in their possession or control:
Have agrecd as follows:
Article 1
Subject to the provisions of the following Articles, each Government,
party to this Accord, undertakes that all former wholly German-ovned patents,
issued by it and in its possession or control under the general law and
regulations relating to German-owned property, which have not ceased or
been dedicated to the public, shall be dedicated to the public or placed
in the public domain or continuously offered for licensing without royalty
to the nationals of all Governments, parties to this Accord.
Articlo 2
In cases where a Government, party to this Accord, makes available
by the grant of licences or otherwise to its cwm nationals rights under
patents in which there was formerly & German interest (other than the
patents specified in Articlc 1), such rights sh ll be made available to
the nationals of all Governments, perties to this Accord, on the same
terms as to the nationals of that Government.
Artiale 3
Subject to the provisions of Article 4, all licences granted in
accordance with article 1 and, in cases where the Government is not
prevented by the terms of the patent, licence or other right which it
acquires, all licences granted in accordance with Article 2 shall include
the right to practice and exerciso the inventions claimed in the patents,
and to make, use and sell the products of the inventions regardless of
where such products are manufactured.
-6-

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
irticle 4
Tho provisions of rticles 1 and 2 shall bc subject to the right of
cach Government to take appropriato mcasures to protect and preserve
proprictary, licence or other rights or interests in such patents which
have been beforc the 1st ugust, 1946, lawfully granted to or aoquired by
any non-German. An exclusive licence granted before the 1st August, 1946,
may be protected by declining to grant any now licence during the period of
such exclusivo liccnce, and a non-exclusive licence may be protected by
imposing on nevw licensees the seme terms as those imposed on the existing
licensec.
irticle 5
For the purposes of this Accord, cach Government may treat as non-
German-owned those patonts, or interosts in patonts, belonging to persons
in special classes (such as Gernans residing outsido Germany, German refugees
etc.) whose property that Government has exempted or may in the future exempt
from its goneral law and regulations relating to German-owned property.
Article 6
In order to carry out the purposcs of this Accord and to provide for
the interchange of informetion through a centrel office, the Government of
the French Republic will provido facilities for receiving and disseminating
reports from Governmonts, partics to this accord, and for nctifying these
Governments of matters of common interest under this Accord.
Article 7
Each Government, party to this Accord, shall furnish as soon as possiblo
to the central office roferred to in Article 6, for transmission to the other
Governments, partics to this Accord, a list of oll former wholly or partly
German-owned patents which are not available to the na tionals of these
Governmonts by wy of dedication or royalty-free licences, together vith a
schedule of the licences and of non-Genman interests existing under or in
those patents. In addition, the Governments, which cen conveniently do so,
shall furnish a list of all such patents still in force which are licensable
on a royalty-free basis and of all such patents as have ceased or been
dedicated to tho public.
-7-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.96)
Article 8
The presont Accord shall romain open for signature in London on behalf
of any Government represented at the Conforence in London until the
31st December, 1946. The Government of the United Kingdom shall notify to
all other Goverrments represented at the Conference the names of the
Governients en vhose behalf the Accord has been signed.
articlc 9
The G vernront of any other momber of the United Nations, or of any
country which romained neutrel during the second World War, may become a
party to his ceord by notifying the Government of the United Kingdem of
its accept nee thereof terore the 1st January, 1947. The Gevernment of
the United Kingdom shal:. inform all Governments represented at the
Conferenee in: Londen on Geran-owned patents, or which have accepted this
Accord under this rtiele, of sll accoptances so netified.
Article 10
Any Goverr ent, porty to this Accord, may oxtend the Accord to any of
its colonies, overcea. territorics, cr to any territories under its
protection or jurisdiction or which it dministers under mandate, by a
notifie tien adaressed to the Government of the United Kingdom.
The G verment of the Umited Kingdom shall inform all other Governments,
party to  is Accord, of any notifiention which it receiven under this Article.
Article 11
This lccord shall come into force as soon as it has been signed or
accepted . the Governments of the French Republic, the United Kingdem, the
United 3t es of Americe and of four ether countries.
IN WI STESS WHEREOF the undersigned duly authorised thereto have signed
the presour Accord.
Lone in London this 27th day of July, 1946, in English and French.
both toxt : being cqually authentic, in a single copy which shall remain
deposited in the rchives of the Government of the United Kingdom.
The Govermment of th: United Kingdom chall transmit certified copies of this
-8-

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Accord to all Governments represented at tho Conference in London on German-
owned patonts and to all Governments entitled to become a party to this
Accord under the provisions of Article 9.
For the Government of Australia
For the Government of Belgium
For the Government of Canada
For the Government of Czechoslovakia
For the Government of Denmark
For the Government of the French Republic

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
For the Government of Luxembourg
For the Government of the Notherlands
For the Govornment of Norway
For the Government of the Union of South Africa
For the Government of the United Kingdom
For. the Government of the United States of America
-10-

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
AUG*11943
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Bazelons
In Mr. Thorp's absence, I have received
x&hexxopoedxdx xixxxaxodxnxxbexxgecxxxfx your letter of
June 21, 1949 in which you give your views on the draft
olicy on the tre tment of Japanese patents outside
Janan.
The Departhent is gratified th t the general principles
of te policy re acce table to the Office of Alien Property
894.542/6-2149
and your specific comments cre appreciated. The draft
nolicy will be revised in accorcance with your suggestions
before it is prerented to representatives of other
interested countries.
Sincerely yours,
was
xilizríxłxxThorp
xxxxxxextxxexrexeryx
Winthrop G. Brown
Director, Office of
International Trade Policy
00H
y
894.542/6
Te Honorable
David L. Bazelon,
Axxxxxxxxxxxtxxnexxxexxxxxx
Director, Office of Alien Property
Department of Justice.
-2149
ITP:IR:JAGFeenwald:sl
L/E
NA
RA
7-7-49
sm
(72849)

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
is assigned to
OFFICE OF
INTERNATIAL TRADE POLICY
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
P
1e
JUN 2 8 1949
lile
DEO TMENT OF STATE
The Minister of Switzerland presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of State, and on instruc-
tions from his Government has the honor to submit the fol-
DC/R
lowing matter to his attention.
From a decision concerning policy toward patent uti-
st 11,1949
lity models and designs in Japan approved by the Far Eas-
894.542/6-2449
tern Commission on March 17, 1949, it was learned that spe-
cial provisions have been established with regard to patent
rights in Japan of allied nationals. If those rights were
lost during the course of the war, the allied patent holder
may remedy his situation and in some measure be compensated
HO
for losses sustained. A further provision requires that An
2
applications for patents in Japan, which were filed by al-
tied nationals, and which were pending on the effective date
of loss, but on which no patents were issued, should upon
894.542
CS/
/H
request of the original applicant be reinstated as pending
ame 
applications in the Japanese Patent Office and restored to
the
174712
INTERNATIONAL RESOUROES DIVISION
JUN 28 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
original applicant.
The Swiss Auhorities are of the opinion that these spe-
cial measures in favor of allied nationals might in fact be
of a discriminatory nature as regards Swiss interests involv-
ed. As a matter of fact, Swiss holders of Japanese patents
or Swiss nationals who filed applications before the outbreak
of the war and who, during the war, had lost control of these
rights may find themselves in virtually the same situation
as the respective allied patent holders. The Swiss Govern-
ment trusts, therefore, that Swiss citizens will not be ex-
cluded from the benefit of these particular provisions.
Washington, D.C.
June 24, 1949.
W

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Minister of Switzerland and has the
honor to refer to his note of June 24, 1949 concerning
the polioy toward patents, utility models and designs in
Japan approved by the Far Eastern Commission on Maroh 17,
1949.
894.542/6-2449
The policy decision referred to in the Legation's
note deals in part with patents in Japan owned by Allied
nationals, who are defined therein as those "whose pro-
perty was treated as enemy property by the Japanese Gov-
ernment, or whose property rights lapsed owing to the
existence of hostilities between Japan and the country
of that national". It appears that nationals of
Switzerland could not have suffered losses due to the
specific causes set forth in the definition quoted above,
and it 1s consequently clear that no disorimination
against Swiss interests was intended in the Commission's
CS/H
—2
polioy decision.
If

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2-
If there are in faot Swiss nationals whe have
suffered losses of the type dealt with in the afopesaid
Far Eastern Commission polioy decision by reasen of
actions taken in Japan during the war, such persons
might avail themselves of the usual recourse to Japanese
courts. If, in the opinion of the Government of
Switzerland, it is demonstrated that adequate remedy is
not afforded to suoh persons under Japanese law as
applied by those courts, the Government of Switzerland
may desire to disouss the matter with the General Head-
quarters of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
through its Mission in Tokyo.
Department of State,
Washington,
August 11,1949
894.542/6-2449
(attarded).
2oe clanaen on canlir verion hew verawn Iened
with lors Taths ond hn. Rannett. ) 9s
OFD:EP:SGKallis:mck:aw
OFD
IR
NA
M
7/21/49
RAY
aw:8/9/49
L
AUG 11 148
1949
Claved with
10
lus. Snow.
0

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
The Seorstary of State presents his compliments to the
Monorable the Mnister of Switserland and has the honeer to redew
to his note of Jume 24, 1949 concerning the poliey tomart p
utility models and designs in Japan approved by the Par Basters
Commission on Mroh 17, 1949.
The policy decision referred to in the Legatiem's mete demls
in part with patents in Japan omed by Allied mationals, who are
defined thersin as those "whose property was treated as enemy
property by the Japanese Government, or whose preperty rights
lapsed owing to the existence of hostilitiss between Japan and
the country of that national". It appears that mationals of
Switserland could not have suffered losses due to the specifle
causss set forth in the definition quoted above, and it is cemse-
quently clear that no discrimination against Swiss interests was
intended in the Commissien's polioy decision. The Legation of
Suitserlend may wish to offer to the Far Eastern Gommission
detailed informatin relating to losses of Japanese patent rigte
suffred...

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.86)
the vien of noeiabing the Par mpteen Gommiaate
utat stepe it mmy be neoesary fer the Supresed
Allid Po to take to corest grieve of i 
in Japan.
In the meantime, it is meggested that saise atile 
my have suffered sach losses due to ntiame takem in Japan
during the mr vould have the wal rerse to p sr
i h ere.
Department of State,
Washington,
894.542/6-2449
Grennald
SGK
OFD:EP:SGKallis:mck
IR
NA
7/21/49
FEO)

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT. OF STATE
FOR THE PRESS
MARCH 29, 1949
NO. 198
FOR RELEASE AT 7: 00 P.M., E.S.T., TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1949.
NOT TO BE PREVIOUSLY PUBLISHED, QUOTED FROM OR
USED IN ANY WAY.
EXTENSION OF TIME FOR EXERCISING RIGHT OF
PRIORITY FOR PATENT APPLICATIONS IN JAPAN
The Department of State today announced the issuance by
the United States Government of an interim directive to the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers regarding the exten-
sion of time for exercising the right of priority for patent
applications in Japan. The Department pointed out that this
interim directive is complementary to a recent policy decision
of the Far Eastern Commission regarding patents, utility
models and designs in Japan. Because the Commission did not
take action on the urgent matter of extension of priority
rights, this Government has acted in accordance with the
authority granted it in paragraph III, 3 of the Terms of
Reference of the Far Eastern Commission which provides: "The
United States Government may issue interim directives to the
Supreme Commander pending action by the Commission. whenever
urgent matters arise not covered by policies already formulated
by the Commission; provided that any directives dealing with
fundamental changes in the Japanese constitutional structure
or in the regime of control, or dealing with a change in the
Japanese Government as a whole will be issued only following
consultation and following the attainment of agreement in
the Far Eastern Commission."
The Department explained that the urgency for a policy on
priority for patent applications in Japan is accentuated by
the long period which has elapsed since it was last possible
for nationals f countries at war with Japan to file patent
applications in Japan. Under normal circumstances persons who
had filed in any country a first application for a patent and
wished to have comparable protection in Japan would have filed
an application there within a year in order to take advantage
of the priority right derived from the previous first filing.
By extending the priority period, the interim directive af-
fords protection to persons who have not been able to exer-
cise their priority rights in Japan because of the war. The
interim directive also provides that third parties who have,
before the filing of the application in Japan, bona fide
manufactured, used, sold or leased the subject matter of any
Japanese patent obtained with such priorities shall be given
the usual protection from liability for infringement.
The text of the interim directive, which has been issued
to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and will be
filed with the Far Eastern Commission, is as follows:
"Nationals

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
"Nationals of countries at war with Japan who had
duly filed in any country the first application for a
patent not earlier than twelve months before the ef-
fective date of loss of right to file patent applica-
tions in Japan should be entitled, within twelve months
after the date, as determined by the Supreme Commander,
on which such Governments and nations are again permitted
to apply for patents directly to the Japanese Patent
Office and to obtain legal services necessary for this
purpose, to apply for corresponding rights in Japan
with a right of priority based upon the previous first
filing of the application. Third parties who have bona
fide manufactured, used, sold or leased the subject
matter of any Japanese patent obtained with this priority
should not be liable for infringement on account of such
use but should be enabled to continue such use after the
filing of the application only under the terms of a non-
exclusive license which the patent owner should be re-
quired to grant on terms providing for reasonable royal-
ties as fixed by an agency to be authorized to make such
determinations. Payment of such royalties should be
subject to applicable financial regulations in effect in
Japan at the time they are paid."
X
*
*

=== Page 220 === (confidence 1.00)
28 March 1949
PRESS RELEASE
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
OFFICIAL PRESS RELEASE
One-Hundred Forty-fifth Meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
For Release 1n A.M. Newspapers, 30 March 1949
I. The Far Eastern Commission on 17 March 1949 approved a
policy decision relating to patents, utility models, and designs
in Japan. (text below)*
II. Pursuant to the Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern
Commission a directive based upon this policy decision has been
forwarded by the United States Government to the Supreme Comman-
der for the Allied Powers for implementation.
POLICY TOWARD PATENTS, UTILITY MODELS, AND DESIGNS IN JAPAN
The Fer Eastern Commission decides as a matter of policy
the following:
1. The Japanese Patent Office
The Japanese Patent Office should continue to exercise
its functions, in such manner as will fulfill the provisions in
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 below. The Japanese Patent Law should con-
tain explicit provisions requiring disclosure in the specifica-
tions or drawings of all information necessary to the working of
a patented invention, and such provisions should be strictly en-
forced. The Patent Office should resume the puolication of
official gazettes and patent specifications.
2.
Patent Rights in Japan
No action should be taken to interfere with patent rights
in Japan which now exist, or which are restored, or which are
newly acquired during the period of occupation, except
a. where the continued protection of such rights is in
conflict with policies established or to be established in
accordance with the terms of reference of the Far Eastern
Commission;
b. where such rights interfere with such production,
use, sale or importation of products as are necessary to
carry out the purposes of the occupation. In such cases the
Supreme Commander should request the Japanese Government to
invoke appropriate provisions of the Japanese Patent Law to
the extent that such action may provide a remedy.
The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to German-
owned or former German-owned patents in Japan.
Press Release No. 52
-1-
145th FEC Mtg.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
3. Secret Patents in Japan
The future maintenance in secrecy of any patent in Jepan
should be prohibited, existing secret patents should be published
and treated in the same manner as all other patents, and pending
applications heretofore treated as secret should be removed from
such classification and treated in the same manner as all other
applications.
4. Patents in Japan Owned by Allied Nationals
(For the purposes of this paragraph:
(1) An "Allied national" is one whose property was
treated as enemy property by the Japanese Government,
or whose property rights lapsed owing to the existence
of hostilities between Japan and the country of that
national.
(2) The "effective date of loss" applicable to the
patents or applications therefor of Allied nationals
should be the date of entry of the country of that
national into war with Japan. When the date of entry
into war is clearly inapplicable to the case of a
particular Allied national, as defined above, the
"effective date of loss" should be the actual date
of sequestration of his patent, or the date on which
his patent rights lapsed.)
a. Patents existing in Japan on the effective date of
loss or granted thereafter on applications filed before that
date, which were owned or had been applied for by Allied
nationals and which have since lapsed, or have been invali-
dated or sequestered or otherwise taken away from such
owners without their free consent should be subject to
revalidation and restoration upon request therefor made
by the Allied national owners within a reasonable period
and in a manner as may be provided by the Supreme Commander.
To such cases the following provisions should apply:
(1) Such owner should be afforded a reasonable time
within which to perform all legally reguired acts in
connection with restoration, revalidation, working and/or
maintenance of his rights which have not been performed
since the effective date of loss.
(2) The owner of a patent so restored or revalidated
shouid be entitled to all the rights and privileges to
which any national of any country is entitled under the
Jopanese patent law existing at the time of such restora-
tion.
(3) The owner to whom such patent is restored
shouid refund to the Japanese Government any sums
paid or credited to him that are the proceeds from
sale of the patent by the Japanese Government during
the war.
(4) Payment of any special or regular fees that
may have accrued to the Japanese Government with
respect to such petents from the effective date of
loss to date of such restoration should not be required.
b. Extension
At the request of the Allied national owner made
within & reasonable time (in such form and prior to such
date as may be prescribed by the Supreme Commander), the
Press Release No. 52

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
period of duration of any Japenese patent owned by him on
the effective date of loss or granted thereafter on an ap-
plication filed before that date should be extended beyond
its normal expiration date. Such extension should be for a
period equal to that from the effective date of loss to the
effective date of restoration or to the normal expiration
dete of the patent, whichever is earlier, provided that such
owner waives all claim to royalties for use of the patent
from the effective date of loss to the date so fixed, and
remits any funds received by him or credited to him in a
blocked eccount as royelties for such use.
C.
Royelties
The Supreme Commander should not be responsible for
obtaining, or attempting to obtain, on behalf of Allied
nationals compensation for any use made of their patents
prior to date of restoration. However, the Supreme Commander
should make availeble to Allied national owners information
as tc funds credited to their accounts which constitute
royalties for uso of their rights from the effective date
of loss to date of restoration. If the Allied national owner
elects to receive such funds in lieu of an extension of term
as provided in para. b above, he should be entitled to do so
on thc same basis as other funds are restored to Allied
national property owners in Japen.
d. Applications Pending on Effective Date of Loss
Applicetions filed by Allied nationals for
patents in Japan which were pending on the effective date
of loss and on which patents were not issued should, upon
request of the Allied national applicant within a reasonable
time end in a manner prescribed by the Supreme Commander,
be reinstated as pending applications in the Japanese Patent
Office and be restorcd to the Allied national applicant.
Any patents thercafter issued on such applicetions should
be treated in a manner which conforms generally with
applicable provisions of subparagraph 4 a above.
5. Application to Registered Utility Models and Designs
This policy applies also to those patonts designated
as
"registered utility modols" and, to the extent epplicable,
to "registered designs".
Press Release No. 52
145th FFC Mtg. - END.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
A D D I T I O N A L I N F O R M A T I O N
(For use in connection with Press Release on Far Eastern
Commission Decision regarding Policy Toward Patents
Utility Models, and Designs in Japan)
For Release in A.M. Newspapers, 30 March 1949
The Far Eastern Commission at 1ts 145th meeting on 17 March
approved a decision setting forth the policy that will re-
establiah an effective patent system in Japan, assure full
publication of all patents in Japan, and provide for the restora-
tion of Allied-owned patent rights which were lost as a result
of the war.
This policy decision, the 56th approved by the Far Eastern
Comm ssion in its three years of continuous session in Washingtn,
falls logically into two parts: (1) general provisions govern-
ing all patents in Japan (paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 of the policy
decision); (2) special provisions applicable to Allied owners
of petent rights whose rights were lost during the war (para-
graph 4 of the policy decision).
GENERAL PROVISIONS
The Jepanese patent office, while already operating under
the guidance of the Occupat on authoritles, will now expand
its functions to approximately its pre-war standards, including
the publication of offic al gazettes and patent specifications
as in the past. Furthermore, under this policy decision the
Japanese patent law must contain explicit provisions requiring
the disclosure of specifications or drawings "of all information
necessary to the working of a patented invention." The policy
decision further reguires that those provisions "should be
strictly enforced."
In general, protection will be given under the policy to
all holders of patent rights in Japan, whether those rights
derive from patents now honored in Japan, from rights restored
under the policy, or fron rights newly acquired during the
period of occupation. However, certain qualifications are
placed upon the exercise of such rights. For example, the
protective provisions do not apply to German-owned or former
German-owned patents in Japan. Similarly, in any case where
the continued protection of patent rights conflicts with present
or future policies of the Far Eastern Commission, Commission
policies must be given precedence. Furthermore, in cases where
the continued protection of patent rights interferes with the
production, use, sale or importation of products "necessary to
carry out the purposes of the occupation," the usual protection
need not be granted. In such cases the Supreme Commander is
empowered to reguest the Japanese Government "to invoke appro-
priate provisions of the Japanese patent law" with a view to
protecting the interests of the Occupation. The Policy also
contains a provision preventing the maintenance in secrecy of
any patents in Japan, and requiring that existing secret patents
"should be published and treated in the same manner as ali other
patents." A further provision requires that pending applications
heretofore treated as secret "should be removed from such.classi-
fication and treated in the same manner as all other applications"
Press Release No. 52
- 1 -

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR ALLIED OWNERS OF PATENT RIGHTS
The new policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
contains special provisions whereby those Allied nationals
whose patent rights were lost during the course of the war
may remedy their situation and in some measure be compensated
for losses sustained. Under the policy any Allied nationals
who lost their normal patent rights may request, within a
reasonable period of time and in accordance with procedures
to be established by the Supreme Commander, the revalidation
and restoration of their patent rights. Upon restoration or
revalidation, such patent-holders are entitled to "all the
rights and privileges to which any national of any country is
entitled under the Japanese patent law existing at the time
of such restoration.
In requesting revalidation or restorat on, the Allied
patent-holder has a choice under the policy of either accepting
such funds as would normally have accrued to him during the
period in which he did not enjoy his full rights, or accepting
an extension of the duration of his patent for the same period
of time. Should he prefer to accept the extension of the
period of duration of his patent, he is required to remit any
funds received by him or credited to him from the effective
date of the loss of his rights to the date of restoration.
Similarly, he must waive all claim to royalties for use of
the patent during the period of loss. In this connection the
Supreme Commander, while not responsible under the policy for
attempting to obtain compensation for Allied nationals for
any use which may have been made of their patents during the
period of loss, is, however, responsible for making available
to such persons information regarding any funds credited to
their accounts in the form of royalties during that period.
A further provision in the new policy requires that
applications for patents in Japan which were filed by Allied
nat onals and which were pending on the effective date of loss
but cn which no patents were issued, should, upon request of
the original applicant, be reinstated as pending applications
in the Japanese patent office and restored to the original
applicant.
A final provision makes the policy applicable not only to
patents as generally understood but also to "registered utility
models" and "registered designs."
Summarizing, the patent policy adopted by the Far Eastern
Commission means the return to norinal operation of the Japanese
patent office, full publication of all patents in Japan, and
the restoration to Ailied nationals of patent rights lost
during the war.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN VICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
Date c:
1/IP:
for Japan
Actic
Tokyos June 25, 1949.
RECD
Nene or 
E
No. 474
ECY
TION
JUL 81949
UNCLASSIFIED
TNFO:
3
STATE
CR
FF
Subjeate
Japanese National Permicted to File Applications
for Patents in Forsign Countries.
OLT
OFE
894.542/6-2549
COM
The Chargé d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose a
"opy of a memorandum dated May 27. 1949, on the subject (f "Patent
Appli:ations,' sent to the Japanese Government by General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. Tokye. Thia memorandum, de-
signated as SCAPIN 20lc, advises the Japanese Government that Japanese
nationals may new file applications fcr patents in foreign sountries.
Detailed provisions ars included regarding the procedures which must
be complied with lesally in this regard.
According to statements made June 24, 1949, by the shief of the
Foreign Department of the Patent Agency. Ministry of International
Trade and Industry, to a representative cf this Mission, thus far
only two applicants for five patents have been recommended by the Jap
anese Government, and approved by the Economic and Scientific Section,
General Headquarters, to file patent applications in the United States
under SCAPIN 2010. The products or processes for which patents are being
sought inelude (1) a turn table for phenographsy (2) and (3) twe pre-
cesses for metal plating electris non-cenductive materials, (4) process
for metal plating aluminum wires, and (s) process for metal plating
synthelis ompcunds. Under cansideration by the Patent Agenay is an
application fer a patent covering a pheumothorax apparatus to be p
plied for in the United States.
The chief of the Foreign Department of the Patent Agency stated
further that his  ffice. since issuance May 27, 1949, of SCAPIN 2010,
has received twc or three inqulries daily from Japanese nationals in-
terested in filing applications abroad for patents. Practically with-
cut excspticn he said, these individuals expressed a desire to file
applications only in the United States.
The Patent Ageney official went on to state that the prosisions
paragraph three of SCAPIN 20l0, which he indicated were severely
Special mention was made of the SCAPIN's provision excluding inven
JUL-81949
tions made prior tc January 1. 1946. In the case of Japanese desiring
to file applications in the United States, he said, added restrictions
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
were contained in the United States Patent Law which assertedly rules
out the possibility of filing applisations for patents registered in
Japan more than 12 months ago.
The
2
DMR
UNCLASSIFIED
2
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.
69

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 414,
June 25. 1949.
-2-
The official added that it was also difficult for the Patent
Agency tc re ommend a given inventicn "as having definite pctentiali-
ties of being worked cr impcrted inte the ccuntry to which the patent
application is to be sent," especially since travel cf Japanese abroad
is highly restricted. The questicn of payment f fees was also men-
tioned as a deterrent, in the ase of an applicant having a friend
or agent abroad in psition to advan e the fees, and alse to handle the
details of filing the application, then the pre edure is much simpler,
he pointed out adding that the two applicants mentiored in the second
paragraph of this despatch were in pesition to have all fees for regis-
tration of their patents in the United States paid by asscriates re-
sident in Hawaii
H
Enclosures
Copy of SCAPIN 201C dated May 27.
1949. subject: Patent Applications'.
Copy to American Embassy. Lender
Parchment Mat to the Department
503
CHBoehringer:lee
UNCLASSIFIED
lus

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 414,
of June 25, 1949, from the Office of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, on the subject "Japanese Nationals
Permitted to File Applications for Pa-
tents in Foreign Countriest.
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG C72(22 Sep 45)ESS/ST
27 May 1949
SCAPIN 2010
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Patent Applications
1. Reference the following memoranda for the Japanese Guvern-
ment from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Pewerse
a. AG 130(22 Sep 45)ESS. SCAPIN 45. 22 September 1945. sub-
jecta Contrel cf Financial Transartions.
b. AG C72(8 Mar 46)ESS/LE, SCAPIN 802, 8 March 2546. subgecte
Patent Rights and Restrictions Conserning Patent Rights.
The Japanese Government is advised that applications may be
submitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers requesting ap-
proval for designated Japanese nationals to file patent appli ations
in those foreign countries, the demestic laws ef which ellow Japaness
nationals to cbtain and hold patent rights therein.
3. The Japanese Government will not submit any appli:ations for
approval unless the invention concerned was made subsequent t 1 Janu
ary 1946 and is cne which it recommends as having definite potensiali-
ties of being worked or imported int: the ccuntry to which the patent
application is to be sent. Provided that if the applicant can estas-
lish that a person legally entitled to hold the apprepriate purrency
of payment, will pay the necessary fees and charges fer cbtaining the
patent then the potential value of the subjec: inventien need not be
taken into consideration.
4. On written approval being given by the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers to the forwarding of a patent application to a for-
eign country, such approval may be presented to a bank licensed by the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, together with a request to
remit the necessary fees in dollars or sterling to a designated ad.
dressee in the country in which the application is to be filed. After
the Foreign Exchange Control. Board has conmenced operaticn, the request
for remittance will be accompanied by certification by the Board as to
arailability of the nesessary foreign exchange.
5. The term "necessary fees" in paragraph 4 abeve means reason
able fees and charges payable in respect of the acquirement of a pa-
tent when no substantial ex parte dispute or third-party hearing is
involved.
6. Actions
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure Nc, 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 414,
June 25, 1949.
-2-
6. Actions likely to involve scsts or charges cther than "neces-
sary fees" as defined in paragraph 5 above, must be approved by the
Japanese Government and by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
before such actions are instigated.
7. Remittances to pay reascnabie costs and charges for such ac-
tions as have been approved by the Japanese Government and by General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers may be obtained
in the same manner as remittances to pay necessary feea.
8. All requests for remittances in dollars or sterling as in
paragraphs 4 and 7 above will be accompanied by an amount in yen, equi-
valent to the dellars or pounds sterling to be remitted, at the cffi-
sial foreign exchange rate.
9. The Japanese Government is notified tnat any transactions,
by way of assignment, license or otherwise, oncerning the patent
granted or tc be granted on an application filed in a foreign country
in the name of a Japanese National, must be approved by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers prior to finalization. Alse, the in-
strument must be filed with the Fair Trade Commission in accordance
with the terms of article 5 of the Law relating to the Prohitition of
Private Monopoly and Methods of Preserving Fair Trade.
10. The Japanese Government is further notified that ppproval
will be given to the finalization of such transactions cnly if the in-
strument contains a provision that any foreign currency to be paid as
consideration, will be remitted, for the account of the Supreme Com-
mander fcr the Allied Powers to a bank licensed by the Supreme Cemmander
for the Allied Pewers which will pay the patentee or applicant in yen.
11. Any patents obtained in foreign countries by Japansse will
be subject to the domestic laws of those foreign countries.
12. Direct conmunication between the Japanese Patent Ageney and
the interested agencies of Ceneral Headquarters, Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers is authcrized.
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
AC/R
ADDRESS ONLY
THE COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS
WASHINGTON Is, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE
WASHINGTON
Your reference:
IR
July 121949
JUL2119A
Mr. Winthrop G. Brown
Director, Office of
International Trade Policy
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Brown:
Forwarded herewith is a letter for transmittal
to the Director General of the Board of Patents, Tokyo,
894.542/7-1249
Japan. This letter is in reply to a communication from
him, dated February 15, 1949, requesting information
concerning applications for patents, designs and trade-
D
marks in the United States by Japanese nationals, which
you sent to this office on May 17, 1949.
Sincerely
La 6, 
Commissioner.
Enclosure:
Reply to letter from
Japanese Board of Patents
INTERRATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
FILED
JUI 191949
251949
OFFICE OF
INTERNA TRADE POLIY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
181885
J0.191949
DEPESTRENT OF  TE
ap
S
ab
2

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
JUL 211949
UNCLASSIFIED
14-2649
0.173
To the Office of the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
49
Tokyo.
712
The Secretary of State refers to the Acting Politieal Adviser's
despatch No. 258, dated April 26, 1949 tranamitting fiftsen
letters from the Japanese Government's Board of Pateats regarding
foreign patents in Japan and requesting information on future
Japanese patent applications abroad.
In reply to the letter addressed to the Commissioner of
Patents, Washington, D.C., the Secretary of State encloses a
894.542/7-1249
letter from the United States Patent Uffice addressed to the
Board of Patents, together with two copies of United States
patent laws and rules of practice. If no objection is perceived
by the Acting Political Adviser, it is requested that the letter
and enclosures thereto be forwarded accordingly.
Enclosure:
Material from the
United States Patent Office.
ap
894.542
Cleane witsh
pcg
ITP:IR:JMLighoman:osm
NA
7-20-49
Iteramending
CS/H
7-1249
CR
UNCLASSIFIED
JUL 21 1949
RC1

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.94)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ATIONALRESOURCES DIVISION
UNITED STATES OFI AMERICA
Enc,alt
AUG 9-1949
No. 353
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.512/7-2749
American Legation,
UNCLASSIFIED
Vienna, Austria, July 27, 1949.
SUBJECT: Letter for Transmittal to Japanese Board
of Patents.
AJG 2
Action Taten tharemtt
epd
ACTION
2-hx0
ITF (all Enc's)
INFO
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim rcfers to the
DCR
Department'a Inatruction No. 62 of May 17, 1949,
2.1TP:/R
FE
and has the honor to enclose herewith for trunsmittal
GA
-JA6
L
OLI
lntter dated July 18, 1949, with enolosures, from the
E
Auatrian Federal. Minintry for Commerce and Roconetruc-
tion.
c
894.542/7-2749
Enclosure:
Letter dated July 18, 1949,
with enclosures, addressed to
Boerd of Patents of the Japanese
Ministry of Commerce, and Industry.
SFP131949
503
CWRenchard: eeb
1949 AUG 9 PM 3
UNCLASSIFIED
5
2
BB
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.93)
PAA
STANDARD PORM-O. 64
Office Memorandum · UNITSOOF
TO
DATE: 8 August 1949
Files
Central
RM/R
This Document Must Be Returned
FROM
R. W. Barnett - OFD
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Patop?
SUBJECT:
1. On page 2l0 of SCAP Summation of Non-Military Activities in
Japan, December 1946, it is reported that the Japanese Government finds
that amongst patents which were registered in Japan on December 7, 1941,
08
there is one case of a Swiss patent which was cancelled subsequently
394.542/8-849
on grounds of non-payment of fee.
This may be the basis for the Swiss note protesting their exelusion
from the terms of the FEC policy on patents, etc.
CS/W
cc: Mrs. Kallis - EP
894.542/8-849
Mr. Greenwalt - IR
FEC:RWBarnett:eve
MAY15073
FILED
DC/R
Anal.
Rew.
Cat.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.93)
po)J
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
+
OF THE
JAG
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Jurt. to Jaty
20194
COPY
No. 486
iles
DUR
American Ambassy
Praha, Czechoslotakra, August 9, 1949
17h
UNCLASSIFIED
Dc/k
SUBJEOT:
Information concerning applications for patents,
designs and trade-marks by Japanese nationals in
Czechoslovakia.
894.542/426×4
TO NA
894.542/8-949
The Ambassador has the honor to refer to Department's
instruction Number 33 of May 17, 1949, enclosing a letter to
be transmitted to the Czechoslovak Patent Office, and to for-
ward three copies of a note of the Czechoslovak Ministry of
Foreign Affairs dated July 15, 1949, in which the Ministry
states to the Embassy the attitude of the Czechoslovak Govem
HATIONAL RESOURCES DIVISION
X
ment toward patent applications of Japanese citizens and the
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 231949
protection of Japanese trade-marks and samples.
894.543
S
J. E. J.
Enclosure: 
894.542
Three copies of Foreign Office
Notes dated July 13, 1949.
0.0H.
A.
W
FILED
CS/H
8-949
1949
JAArmitage/ak
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosjre
Despatch 486
August 9, 194?
Transletien.
MINISTRY OP PORBIOH APPAIRS
Ho.123.899/49-A/VI-40
The Hinistry of Yoreign Affairs presemts iss
complimunts to the abassy of the United States 
America, and hos e onor to acknowledge wth
thanks receipt of the -abaucy's lote of 24th M
1) and at regard vhe atter in question to state
as follows:
An re ards putents the standpoint of the Gmeche
slovak sovernilelnt ls bused on the fact that a state
of wer stiil exists betweon thle Szuchoslovak Republle
and the mpire of Jupan. According to a Note of the
izechoulovak ovornment of th Aprii 1944 ciroulated
to all e allied overments, a state of wr hed
axisted etwuen the Ssechoalovak Republic and Japen
frou the lóth ecember 19l. Fron that day the Parlo
Convention wam regarded as being in suspense betwoem
the zochoslovak upublic and Japan in viow of the
fact that up to now no troaty of peace has been
concluded, this state of aifairs still exists at this
prosont :xocent. As a consequence applications
submit od in Szechoslovaicia by Japanese Nationals
for rants of patonts have in the meantime not beem
dealt with /lust as in the case of applications from
Gemana.
To the iabassy of the United States of America
irague.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.97)
一2
As to the protection of trade-marks and samples
the situation is similar. The Czechoslovak Republie
does not recognize the right of Japanese subjects to
tho protection of trade-marks and samples as long as
no peace treaty has been concluded with Japan. The
regulations appiying in Czechoslovakia in the sector
of the protection of trade-marks and samples dating
from war time and the post-war period have all been
published in French in the official organ of the
aris Union for the Protection of Trade Rights
"La Propriété industrielle'.
The inistry of Foreign Affairs avails itself
of this opportunity so renew to the Embassy of the
United states of America the assurance of its
highest consideration.
ra ue, July 1, 1949.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
TRANSLATION
MINISTRY OF FORFIGN AFFAIRS
No. 125.899/49-A/VI-4.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its compliments to
the Embassy of the United Stat s of America, and has the honor to
acknowledge with thanks receipt of the mbassy's Note of 24th May, 1949
and as regard the matter in question to state as follows:
As regards patents the stanipoint of the Czechoslovak Gover ment
is basei on the fact that a state of war still exists between the
zechoslovak Republic and the Fmpire of Japan. According to a Note of the
Czechoslovak overnment of 28th April 1944 circulated to all the Allied
Governments, a state of war had existed between the Czechoslovak
Republic and Japan fro the 16th December 1941. From that day the Paris
Convention was regarded as being in suspense between the Czechoslovak Repub
lic and Japan. In view of the fact that up to now no treaty of peace
has been concluded, this state of affairs still exists at this present
moment. As a consequence applications submitted in Czechoslovakia by
Japanese Nationals for rants of patents havein the meantime not been
dealt with/just as in the case of applications from Germans/.
As to the protection of trade-marks and samples the situation is
similar. The Czechoslovak hepublic does not recognize the right of Japanese
subjects to the protection of trade-marks and samples as long as no peace
treaty has been concluded with Japan. The regulations applying in
Czechoslovakia in the sector of the protection of trade-marks and samples
dating from war time and the post-wer period have all been published in
French in the official organ of the''; Union for the Protection of Trade
Rights "La Propriete industrielle".
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs avails itself of this
opportunity to renew to the Embassy of the nited States of America the
assurance of its ighest considerat:on.
Prague, July 13, 1949
To the Fmbassy of the United tates of Arerica
Prague.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
SEP 201949
UNCLASSIFIFD
No. 215
To the
Office of the Acting United tates Political Adviser for Japan,
894.542/4-2449
Tokyo.
894.
The Secretary of tate refers to the Acting Political
Adviser's despatch No. 258, dated April 26, 1949 transmitting
5
542/8-949
15 letters fron the Japanese Government's Board of Patents
regarding foreign patents in Japan and requesting information
on future Japanese patent applications abroad.
at Proha
The Secretary of State encloses a copy of despatch No. 486
dated August 9, 1949, fromt 1mbassy, Prague with a note dated
July 13, 1949 from the Czechoslovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
If no objection is perceived by the Acting Political Adviser,
it is requester that the note be forwarded to the Japanese
Government.
Enclosures:
1. Despatch No. 486.
2.r Note fro Czechoslovak
A true copy of
inistry.
the aigned srig-
Inal
DCR ITP Unt
0.0.14
UNCLASSIFIED
CS/H
Ema
ITP:IR: JMNightman:prg
9-15-49

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.92)
 August 17,19
To : FE - Mr. Allison
0151001
: NA - R. Fedy RAg
FAR EASTER AFFAIRS
AUG49
swaymcr: Attached Memorandum
of State
Deg
The attached seems O.. to me.
I have attached a proposed concurring
memo from you to Dixon at the bottom
of the rile.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.94)
VSION OF
HEAST ASIAN AEFATE: August 12, 1949
: FE - Mr. John M. Allison
TO
Dc/R
151949
FROM : IR - Mr. Roger C. Dixon
suBject: Disposition of Japanese-owned patents butside Japan.
7ile
As you know, the proposed FEC "Policy on the Treat-
ment of Japanese Patents Outside Japan" (FEC 3ll Series)
was accepted by nine members of the FEC but not passed
because of the dissent of the Soviet delegate. Às a
result of this action, it was decided to seek agreement
on this subject outside the FEC. Before initiating inter-
governmental discussions, we presented the paper to the
OAP for its comments and concurrence. A number of sug-
gestions were made by the OAP to bring the paper in line
with the London Accord on German Patents Outside Germany.
The attached is a revision made in accordance with these
suggestions.
.ntral
If you have no objection, it is now proposed to call
5
an informal meeting of the members of Committee One of th
Document Must Be Retusuou Lo
FEC who were responsible for developing this policy and
whose governments approved the policy in the FEC. It is
8
felt that this will be the most expeditious way of handlin
94
the matter, since they are all familiar with the subject.
The purpose of the proposed meeting is to develop a pro-
cedure to be followed in obtaining international agreement
to the proposed plan for the disposition of Japanese patents
outside Japan. We have discussed the matter informally
with Mr. Thresher of the British delegation, who agrees
with this approach.
8
Assuming that agreement is reached among the FEC
countries attending the proposed meeting, it is our
249
intention to present the proposal to other governments
in order to achieve a very simple international accord on
Japanese patents outside Japan.
Attachment
cc: OFD - Mr. Barnett
L/E - Mr. Metzger
CS/
FILED
DC/R
55
19
工
AA
8
52
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:sl

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
Policy on the Treatment of Japanese Patants Outaide Janan
1. All former wholly Japanese-owned patents, isamed
country and in its possession or control under the general j
and regulations relating to Japanese-owned property, which
have not ceased or been dedicated to the public, should be
dedicated to the public or placed in the public domain es com-
tinuously offered for licensing without royalty except thet
these provisions should be subject to the right of each geverm-
ment to take appropriate measures to protect and preserve
proprietary, license, or other rights or interests, in such
patents which have been lawfully granted to or acquired by
any non-enemy national prior to June 30, 1949.
2. Unpublished applications for patents abandoned or
E
refused during the war should be published or otherwise made
available to the public.
3. All existing rights of non-enemy nationals in former
Japanese-owned patents should be protected.
4. The provisions of international conventions relating
to patents to which Japan was a party on the 6th December 1941,
should be applied to Japan, and applications for protection
should be entertained in respect of inventions made by Japanese
after the 1st January 1946, except for inventions relating to
articles, the manufacture, ownership or operation of which or
to processes, the ownership or operation of which, is forbidden
to the Japanese by policies established in accordance with the
Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission.
5. This policy applies also to those patents designated
as "registered utility models" and, to the extent applicable, to
"registered designs".

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
LEGATION OF SWITZERLAND
050
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
DIVISION OF
FE
SGK
POLICY
Kallis
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PROPERTY
NAR
AUG 1 91949
OEPARTMENT DF STATE
DC/R
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
his compliments to the Honorable the Seeretary of State and
has the honor to acknowledge receipt of the Secretary's
note of August 11, 1949, concerning the policy toward pa-
tents, utility models and designs in Japan approved by the
Far Eastern Commission on March 17, 1949.
The contents of the note have been transmitted to the
894.542/8-1749
appropriate authorities in Switzerland for their considera-
tion.
OFFICE
40
AUG 20 1949
心
DFMENT OF
Cr
Washington, D.C.
SEP 15 1949
August 17, 1949.
FILED
180150
894.542
4ew
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
CS/H
AUG 29 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.86)
Aotion Assigued ta
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
Instit Dokyo
Date or sutio
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
02051056
xaction to pom Zile
UHOT ASS
DEE1CE OF
S13, 1049.
SEP 2 6 1949
DEFF
894.542/9-1349
 approp
trans-
XR
FAP
1:1949
FILED
UUCLASSIPEED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.75)
UILASSIFIED
-1-- Encloqure to Doapetch Ho. 1oo of Sept embec
from Beirut, Lobano.
0 0F 
1000
présente
eique
Sos
De net  afrrr P s sucio cte
s p      atls
'e D  
onsidérati on
LEGATION DES EATS US D AR
BEROUT
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
-2- Enolosure to Despatch No. 160 of Septa
from Beirut, Lebanon.
TRANSLATION
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Linistry of Foreign Affairs
No. 4011/E
Beirut, August 19, 1049.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presents its
compliments to tho Legation of the United States of
America and, referring to its Note. No. O4 of June
2, 1049, has the honor to communicato to it the
following:
The Office of Protection of Corsmereial and
Industrial Prbperty in the Lebanon perceives no
objection to grant protection to Japanece sorinercial
and industrial property.
The Binistry of Foreign Affairs avails itself
of this opportunity to renew to tho Logation of the
United States of America the assurances of its high
consideration.
Legation of the United States of America,
Beirut.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
OCT 41945
UNCLASSIFIED
No. α
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State refers to the Acting Political
894.542/9-1349
Adviser's despatch No. 258, dated April 26, 1949 trans-
mitting fifteen letters from the Japanese Government's
Board of Patents regarding foreign patents in Japan and
requesting information on future Japanese patent applica-
tions abroad.
The Secretary of State encloses a copy of despatch
No. 160 dated September 13, 1949, from the Legation at
Beirut with a copy and translation of a letter from the
Lebanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs in reply. If no
objection is perceived by the Acting Political A dviser,
it is requested that the note be forwarded to the Japanese
Government.
Enclosure:
Despatch No. 160 with
copy and translation
of ltr. from Lebanese
Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
CS/A
UNCLASSIFIED
SEP 301949
0C 4 1949
894.542/
A true oopy df
the sigaed orig.
imel
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1
NE
NA
9-28-49

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
Similar letters sent to:
Mr. Ralph Collins, Canadian Embassy
Mr. Y,C.Yang, Chinese Embassy
Mr. A.Fequant, French Embassy
Mr. S.N. Banerji, Indian Embassy
Mr. G.J. Jobsis, Netherlands Embassy
Mr. F.H. Corner, Emb. of N. Zealand
Mr. F. Lozada, Philippine Emb.
Mr. M.B. Thresher, British Embassy
SEP141949
In reply refer to
IR
My dear Mr. Bullock:
As you nor, the nronosed Far Hastern Commission
"Policy on the Treat ent of Janenese Patents Outside
Janan" (F c 311 series) was accepted by nine members of
the F C but as ot nassed bec: u e of the dissent of
one monber. The U ited States Government feels that it
wo ld be (esirable to rcuch agreement on this subject.
Accor ingly. it is ronosed that an informal meeting of
the embers of Co mittee 1 of the c whose governments
ammrovee the nolicy in the e be hel in Room 2180,
Ner State Jepartmont Bi 7ding, on October 5, 1949 at
894.542/9-1449
2:30 p.m., to ciscuss the possibility of obtaining
internetio al afreement to the pronosed plan for the
is osition  Jananese pe tents outside Japen.
I an srelosin a co y of e pronosed "Policy on the
Treatmont of Jananese rater ts Outside Janan". This paper
is b ced umor th rigine1 C  liey (rac 31l series).
Lo ever, cert in oci ie tio s lave been  ade to bring
it in confor ance  ith the nccore on Germen Patents
Out-ice Ger any (sicnec  t London J 1y 27, 1946),
which ha been accented ty many o the  C countries.
I wo 1 onpreci: te e re ly eith r by telephone or
letter indicatirs whether vou or one of your associates
will be bie to tte the ronosed meeting.
noe ely yours,
Ren
Roger C. Dixon
Act ng assistant Chief
SEP 14
Enclosure:
International Resources Division
894.542
"Policy on the
CS/
Trestment of Junanese
Patents Outsice Jaren".
工
2
Mr. Harry . Bullock,
australian Erbassy,
Vasl ington. D. c.
in subatauce
ITP:IR:JAGreenwald:s1 Cleared with:
EP
L/E
FE
9-12-49

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.91)
Mation Assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA-
HR
Dat
894242/9 2049
Aot(b err ive syabol.
Name of Officer
United States Folitical Adviser
DSDcIapato DC/R
PECID
Tolyept ember 17 1949
OFFICE OF
AOTION
No 646
TT
SEP 271949
TIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
UNGLASSTFIED
SEP 271949
FR
DEPASTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F2
OL
CFD
894.542/9
1.
Subpeet
Amendment to SCAPIN regarding Procedures for
COM
Restoration of Patents Utility Models. and
Designs to Allied Nationals
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer  this
Mission s despatches ne. 223 of April 13. 1949. entitled "Tran-.
mission of Memorandun for Japanese Government on Frecaduree fo
Resscration of Patents. Utility Models. and Designs to Al''ed
-1749
Har onals " and no. B6i of Juns 6 1949, coltaining supplementemy
afermet ion on this subjeet
There is new enelosed a copy of a memorardur for th" aganese
Governnent dated August 27 1949, sent by General lHeadguar
SeAP ana designated SCAPIN 1990/2. Thts supplementary SCaPm
sme ds paragraph 6 of S0AP1N 1990 dated April e 1949  copy
wh. h wae transmitted as enelosure to thas thseien s a me
ks f App s 1949 by ehangng the dete srecfes ee
 May 1949 to 1 September 1949
the amended pare re
aceordingly now reade as follows:
"6 The Aillted patent owmer will be affrrded a
perved of one (2) yoar commeneing 1 Septembar 1940
wi th'n which to make bis reguest for peval datier ana
restcration. and for acquiring such priority pights es
derined n paragraph 4 above, and a reasonable time
thereafter to perform all legally required acts in .on
rection with restoration revalidetion. werking and/or
manatenance of his rights which have not been performed
since the effective date of loss "
21
Also enelosed is a copy of a presa release dated August l?
1949 ssued by the Public Information Office, General Headqtarvers
FAPFILED
Far East Command. Tokyo. and entitled "Cabinet Order on Restitutten
OCT4-1949
of Patent Property." This report states that ths Japaness Sopern.
ment in response to SCAPIN 1990, has promulgated a Cabiuet Order
to provide for restoration and revalidation of patent rights owned
ap
by Allied nationals at the outbreak of the war. An English trans-
lation of this Cabinet Order will be transmitted to the Department
upon publication
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 646.
September 17 1949.
-2
upon publication in the English-language version of the Crricial
Gszette issuance of which is ordinarily delayed some three or
four weeks following publication of the original Japanese version
thereof
i/
Copy of SCAPIN 1990/2 dated Aigust
27 1949. on subject "Procedures for
Restoration of Patents. Utility
Modela and Designa to Allied
Nat:onals"
2/
Copy of press release entitled
"Cabinet Order on Restitution of
Patent Property." Lssued August 19.
1949 by Public Information Of ice.
Far East Command, Tokye
Parchment mat to the Department
Coples to. American Embassy. London
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
503
CHBoehringer:pf
UNCLASSIFIED
GB1

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 646
dated September 17,, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan. Tokyo. on the subject "Amend..
ment to SCAPIN regarding Procedures
UNCLASSIFIED
for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals"
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPRENE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLTED POWERS
APO 500
AG 072 (8 Apr 49)CPC/FP
27 August 1949
SCAPIN 990/2
MEMORANDUM FOR: THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT3
Procedures for Restoration of Patents, Utility
Models, and Designs to Allied Naticnals
1. Reference is made to memorandum for Japanese Goverrment
f11e AG 072 (8 Apr 49) CPC/FP SCAPIN 1990. 8 April 1949, subject
as above. from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander or the
Allied Powers
2 The date in paragraph 6 of memorandum refererced 
paragraph 1 above shall be amended tc read as follows:
"] September 1949 "
FOR THE SUPREME COLMANDER
/B/ A. J. REE
for
R. M. LEVY
Colonel. AGD
Adjutent General
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 646
dated Septamber 17, 1949, from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan. Tokyo. on the subject "Ameri-
ment to SCAPIN regarding Prosedutes
UNCLASSIFIED
for Restcration of Patents, Utility
Mcdels. and Designs to Allied
Nationals"
(Copy cf press release issued August 19, 1949. by
General Headquarters Far Hest Command Tckyo!
CABINET ORDER ON RESTITUTION OF PATENT PROPERPY
Japanese patents owned by Allied rationals at the outbreak of
the wer and which lapsed or were cencelled by the Japanese government
may now be revalidated and restored upon request of their cners
The validity of such patents and of those which exrirei juring
the war may also be extended to compsnsate their cwrers for less of
rights during the war pericd.
These provisions were written inte Japanese law toduy by a
Cabinet Oraer premulgated in response to a Soar Dire tice o the
Japanese government Most of the Allied-owned patears worl y vodels
and designe in Japan were terminated during tes war any wo th
property rights lapsed because of failure to pay tre peapipe? aastal
fees end others were caneelled by the government uuder the prorisicne
of the Wartime Law of Industrial Property.
The new Cab net Order reguires the Jananese Pat ent Cr to se.
validate such patent rights upon reguest and to pestore thom po their
owners withoet paycent of ans pegcler or spcetel Fess Sec, parer
cwners, furthermore. may elect to have their rights extendel into he
future Por a perlod equivalent to thas of the war provided eit claime
for damages or poyalties fer wr-tive use are waived.
All:ed owners or Fapaneee patents whier e pired caring the wer may
request exterelon or their rights for a period eauivslent  trut
between the outbreak of the war wud the date of espiratton
A furthey provision of the Cabinet Orier of paterest ts Allied
nationals all as owners of patents regietered in their ovn countries
diring the war to apply for regietretion de Japan with prierity
rights extended back to the date of firet filing of the eppliestien
in another country Sueh first filing, however must have beer not
earlier than l2 months before the outbreak of the war.
Full infermation about procedures and ferms for use in cbtaiuing
restoration and extension of patent rights may be obtained frer the
Orfice of the Civil Property Custodian, General Headquartere Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers.
Allied nationals seeking patent protection in Japan for their wer-
time inventions. however, should apply for patents through Japenese
patent attorneys, just as they did before the war. Such applications
should be accompanied by documents attesting the name of the country
of first filing and the date of that filing.
.0-
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.96)
THE PORIDGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
0
DIVISION
enc,ath
United States Politicabrudviser
894.542/10-749
241949
for Japan
S
S
1000
INATIONAL TRADE
TTP
POLICY
Tokyo, October 7, 1949. 6
CENTER
PM
No..699
894.542/10-749
REC'D
24
OCT 14
UNCLASSIFTED
20
ACTION
ITP-encs
INFO
FR
Subject:
Translation of Cabinet Order concerning Post-War
DCR
Dispositions of Industrial Property Rights Owned
FE
by Allied Nationals.
OLI-enc
OFD
Lènc
COM-enc
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
Mission's despatch no. 646 dated September 17, 1949, entitled
"Amendment to SCAPIN regarding Procedures for Restoration of Patents,
Utility Models, and Designs to Allied Nationals."
In this despatch mention was made of a Japanese Government
Cabinet Order issued to implement the terms of SCAPIN 1990, and the
supplements thereto, regarding procedures for restoration of patents,
utility models, and designs to Allied nationals. There is now en-
closed a copy of a translation of Cabinet Order no. 309, made
effective as from September 1, 1949, and entitled Cabinet Order
concerning Post-War Dispositions of Industrial Property Rights Owned
by Allied Nationals. This translation was prepared by Mr. K. YUASA,
a Japanese lawyer, and was issued under date of September 21, 1949,
by the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, Tokyo, to members of
the Chamber.
While it is assumed that Mr. Yuasa's translation is reasonably
correct, this Mission wili expect to transmit to the Department a
copy of the official translation of this Cabinet Order which pre-
sumably will be published soon by the Japanese Government in the
English version of its Official Gazette.
Action Assigned to D
att
Enclosure:
Action Taken 
Copy of translation of Cabinet Order
concerning:Post-War Dispositions of
Industrial Property Rights Owned by
Date ct Autm/03
Allied Nationals. (5 copies to Department)
Aot 100 01100 Syab02/: B
Parchment mat to the Department
Mame of officer
8
Copies to: American Embassy,: London
American Consulate General, Hong Kong
503
CHBoehringer:pf
ACTION
ENGLASSIFIED
RETURNITO DO/R PILES WTTHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A. NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.97)
NOV22194
UNCLASSIFIED
260
No.
To the
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo.
894.542/10-749
The Secretary of State refers to despatck No. 699 dated
October 7, 1949 from the Acting United States Political Adviser
enclosing an unofficial English translation of Cabinet Order No. 309
concerning Postwar Dispositions of Industrial Property Rights Owned
by Allied Nationals.
Although the Acting Political Adviser states that an offieial
translation will be transmitted to the Department in the near future,
it is felt that on the basis of the unofficial translation, certain
discrepancies may exist between the Cabinet Order and the Policy
Towards Patents, Utility Models and Designs in Japan, promulgated
by the Far Eastern Commission in  arch, 1949.
The present definition of "Allied Nationals" in Artiele 2 of
the Order does not conform to the definition set forth in the Fac
Policy statement. The definition in the Order appears to give the
Minister of International Trade and Industry arbitrary power in
7
designating the persons to whom the Order shall apply.
Under Article 3, paragraph (1), line 9 of the Order, the worde
"at the time of lapse or cancellation" appear to be out of place.
Clerification. would be appreciated.
Article 8, paragraph (4) of the Order provides for payment of
certain patent fees in connection with resporation of patents. It is
not clear whether this provision is consistent with Paragraph 4 (4)
of the Patent Policy which provides that payment of fees from date of
loss to effective date of restoration should not be required.
Article 10 of the Order, providing for the rights of a third
party, states that such a person "may continue to use that patented
invention
47

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
invention in the same form in whish he has been waing is.
the patent policy set forth in an interim direstive issued
and filed with the FEC, March, 1949, it is provided that
user shall be granted & non-exclusive liesnse. Sinee Arstel
does not specifically provide for the granting of a non-emala
license under the patented invention, it may be possible under
terms of this article to grant an exclusive license to a therd
party, inconsistent with the above directive.
Article 20 stipulates that the provisions of Artiale 9 to
Article l4 shall apply toutility models and designs. It is 
clear whether Article 1 through Article 8 also pertains to utilit
models and designs t the extent applicable,in accordance mith
paragraph five of the Fvc policy statement.
The Department feels that these inoonsistensies may be due
to translation difficulties and would appreciate any informatiom
which would clarify the matter.
A true sepy of
NOV 22 1949
894.542/10-749
ReD
ITPTBP: JLightmansprg
10-31-49

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.94)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
1826
UNCLASSIFIED
CLASSIFICATION
1826
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-238, December 16, 1949
Re Instr No. 260 November 22. Department would
appreciate curly reply.
Department also desirous info as to whether any
legislation has been adopted designed to prevent future
maintenance in secrecy of patents in Japan. If so,
Adentification such legislation desired,
 t0IAD Despatch Ho. 647, September 17. Department
would appreciate idontification and copy, if possible, of
894.542/10-749
Jap laws, decrees, regulations, etc. promulgated to carry
out SCAPIII 2042, Trade Marks.
cheson
S
Acheson
ACHESON
(EWD
JMLaySoK
Cos
274
ITP:LF: JMLightman:prg:mJP
NA - Mr. Hemmendinger
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICEB ONLY)
CS
BK
H
-7dg
CR
UNCLASSIFTED
CLASSIFICATION
copies before delivery to Airgram Section, Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.94)
1R
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLEAR MESSAGE
Files
Central
RM/R
Document Must Be Returned to
From
SCAP Tokyo Japan
Dept of Arny for JCS Wash DC
N
2-26952
22 Oct 49
This radis in 2 perts.
Part 1 Reurmag W-86030, 24 March 1949. Clar1rication
 Par eastern comnieaion peliey toward patente, utility
m de: s, and designs is requested.
A Re paragraph 4 (1), not clear whether it is
intenced to extend benefits of this pregram to Japanese
894.5
rpcration oumed wholly or in part by allled Nationals
woi h was treated as enemy, and whose patents of allied
rigan were a Iov d to apee (for non-payment of annual fees)
 ustcclane instarled by apanese dovermment.
542/10-2249
a. Otne: patents of allied origin registered in
nane or sane Jeparest corporatfon expired during period of
euet clanship.) Should sueh patents be revrlidated, restored,
and coxt nwded upon demand by the owner?
Parl 2. Reurmsg W-92834, 14 Auguet 1949. Clarifi-
ce un for eastern commisvion policy toward trade-marks and
tred names is requested. Re paragraph , rot clear whether
in it int nded to provide for restoration ci trade-marks
registered in names  Japanece corporations owned wholly
 ir pert by ellied necicnals which porporations were
atcd es enory and pur under eustedianship by rapanese
 voroment
ACTION: JCS
CS/M
INFO
AF, OUS, OUSFE, OUSEU, CSA, ID, NAVAIDE, NAVY, PO,
SDLO
NO 1N 67812
(22 0st 49)
DTG :20715Z JwW/B
894.542
1829
1.h
6
UNCLASSIFIED
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1947-O-750854

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLEAR MESSAGE
#2998
C
SAOUS (OUSFE) DA WBBh DC
Maj Lieding
71748
RCD
To:
SCAP
JAG
NI
WCL 21023
27 Oct 49
JML
From 3AOUS cite CUSPE. Reurmsg Oct Z 26952.
State Dept is prepz Interpretation of FEc policy on
patents utility models and designs with re to gues raised by you.
Rpt will be compld about 5 Nov.
Nite
3 26952 1s M0 IN 67812 (22 0ct).
0+111
OUS(OUSFE)
PISIR :
AF, ID(STATE), NAVAIDE, NAVY, PO, SDLO, OUS, CSA
MC CUT
21023
(Oot 49) DTG: 291730z
bjs
TD.J
103 0012999
2
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.96)
DRAFT CABLE TO SCAP
Reurad 2 26952 Oct. 22.
Re Part 1 Para (A). Applicability rEC patent policy not governed
by extent allied ownership. Test of policy's application is whether
or not patent was treated as enemy property by Japanese Government.
If patents in Japan of any companies organized under law of Japan were
permitted to lapse by government intervention in such companies because
of either direct or indirect enemy interest, patents should be restored.
re Part 1 Para(B). 1f patents treated as enemy property by
Japanese Government, provisions of FEC policy apply regardless of
expiration of patents during sequestration. Restoration will, of
course, be only for unexpired period of patent at time of seques-
tration or loss of rights.
re Part 2. rolicy principles re trademarks same as for patent
in rart 1, rara (A) above.
51
86
on 1n 11//09
me
lut
L/E
NA
ITP:BP:JMTightman:prg
(Maurer)
(Hemmindinger)
11-4-49

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
CHADBOURNE, WALLACE, PARKE & WHITESIDE
25 BROADWAY, NEW YORK 4, N.Y.
November 9, 1949
DIVISION OF ECONOMIC PROPERTY
Division of Economic and
POLICY
Teonsfa
Property Policy,Reparations
Ac5um
and Property Branch
NOV 1 01949
TNARA
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
fete
Gentlemen:
11/29/41
We have been asked by our Aient, The Sperry
Corporation (successor by merger to Sperry Gyroscope
Company, Inc.) to investigate the status of its patents
in Japan and of royalties due from Japanese nationals on
894.54211
such patents.
Our client has had correspondence with the State
Department and with the United States Reparations and Resti-
tution Delegation in Tokyo in regard to its claims, the
most recent of which was a letter signed by Charles L. Hodge,
Chief of the United States Reparations and Restitution Dele-
gation, dated January 13, 1949, which contains the following
paragraph:
"Policies and procedures governing the
6
handling of monetary claims against the
4
8
Japanese Government for damages sustained
6
6
during the war have not as yet been es-
tablished and at the present time nothing
can be done with claims such as yours.
54
However, you may file your claim now with
the Department of State at Washington, D.C.,
2
234537
and action will be taken when the necessary
policies and procedures have been established.
We would very much appreciate word from youn
FILED
regard to the following two questions raised by the above
quoted portion of Mr. Hodge's letter:
6
f
1.
Have the policies and procedures referred
to
6
by Mr. Hodge now been established?
C14
2.
Does the Department of State require that
claims of this sort be filed on any parti-
cular forms? If so, we would appreciate
CS/H
receiving copies of these forms.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
Division of Economic and
2
Property Policy Reparations
and Property Branch
Please direct your answer to this letter to Mr.
Thibaut de Saint-Phalle of this office.
Very truly yours,
Chalhoums, Wallac, Parle & Whitende

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.95)
DEC191945
In reply refer to
A/B
Chadbourne, Wallacs, Parke & Whiteside,
25 Broadway,
New York 4, Ne York.
Sirs:
Your letter of Movember 9, 1949 to the Division of Seonomis
Property Poliey has been referred to this Office fer reply.
89
It is noted that your client, The Sperry Cerporation, is
94.542/11-949
interested in obtaining information as to the status of its patents
For your information and that of your client, there is atteehed a
copy of the poliey decision of the Far Eastern Commission on the sub-
ject of patents, utility models and designs in Japan. This poliey
provides that Allied nationals who lost their normal patent rights
during the course of the war may request the revalidation and rester-
ation oi their patent rights within a reasonable period of time and
in accerdance with procedures to be established by the Supreme Cem-
mander. The "reasonable period" for making applioations has beem
established by the Supreme Commander as being one year baginning
September 1, 1949.
Iou will also note that the policy provides that an Allied na-
tional may request extension of the period of duration of hie Japa-
nese patents for a period equivalent to that in whiah he did not
enjoy his full rights. If he accepts suah extension he is required,
however, to waive all claim to royalties for use of the patents dur-
ing the period of loss. While the Supreme Commander is not respon-
sible under the polioy for attempting to obtain compensation for
Allied nationals for any use which may have been made of their pat-
ents during the peried of loss, he is, hewever, responsible for mak-
ing available to suoh persons information regarding any funds credited
to their accounts in the form of royalties during that poriod.
With referenee to the paragraph which you quote from a letter of
Jamuary 13, 1949 to your client from Mr. Charles L. Hodge, Chief of
the United States Reparation and Restitution Delegation, polieies
C
S
00H
and
H
6

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
and procedures governing the handling of monetary slaims against the
Japanese Government for damages sustained during the war have not yet
been established. It is furthermore doubted that the cellection of a
debt owed by a national of an enery country is to be regarded as a war
claim against the enemy country and the Department of State is mot pre-
pared to accept a claim of this type for processing. Tou will reeogmime,
however, that the Far Eastern Commission policy contains provisiens
whereby those Allied owners whose patent rights were lost during the
course of the war may remedy their situation and in some measure be com-
pensated for losses sustained.
It is suggested that you write directly to the Civil Property Cus-
todian, GHQ, SCAP, APO 500, c/e Postmaster, San Francisco, California,
regarding details of procedures to be followed by Allied nationals in
making application for the remedies available under the FEC policy on
patents.
Very truly yours, ,
For the Secretary of State:
EwD
Edward W. Doherty
Officer in Charge
Economic Affairs
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Enclosure:
FEC Press Release, 30 March 1949: Policy towards
Patents, Utility Models and Designs in Japan.
2k
DEC 19
eari
Fraleigh
lwot
SEK
11/29/49
FE:NA/E:SGKallis:ch

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
NORTHERN EQUIPMENT
COMPANY
COPES SYSTEM OF
BOILER FEED CONTROL
in fusl Setttement is. Jop. Sa.
November 16, 1949
The Secretary bf State
vas
Washington 25, D. C.
11/25749
1949
RE: SPD 894.542/6-247
894.542/
Gentlemen:
Enclosed with your letter of June 27, 1947 was a statement
of Special Property Administration Account. This statement
certified that we had Yen 71,278.00 on deposit with the
Yokohama Specie Bank as of July 31, 19l46.
Will you please check into this account for us and determine
if this balance can now be transferred to us in dollars.
Very truly yours,
649
NORTHERN EQUIPMENT COMPANY
En. Deanlitt
CS/M
BY:
EWScarlett/tmp
DEC 4 1949
FILED
FACA L
894.542/11
223058

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
DS 894.542/11-1649
My dear Mr. Scarlett:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter dated
November 16, 1949, inquiring whether funds in the
amount of Yen 71,278.00 which the Northern Equipment
Con pany has on deposit in the Special Property Admini-
stration Account in Japan may be transferred into United
States dollars at the present time.
894.542/11-1649
Your designated agent in Japan may withdraw avail-
able funds from the Special Property Administration
Account upon the condition that an agreement be signed
at the time of withdrawal, whereby it is agreed that
any money withdrawn will be accounted for in the final
settlerent of the claim against the Japanese Government.
Funds obtained under this procedure may not be converted
into dollars or other foreign exchange at this time and
such money can not be transferred outside of Japan under
existing regulations.
The Japanese Government has been directed, however,
to preserve and protect the property of United Nations
nationals until such time as the property is restored
to the owner or his represontative.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Hawley L. Smith
Acting Assistant Chief
Division of Protective Services
C
NUV
Mr. E. W. Scarlett,
S
Northern Equipment Company,
1945 Grove Drive,
H
5
eas
Erie, Pennsylvania.
8
11-1649
CON:DS:VASmith:aec
11/25/49

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.93)
DEC. 9
OTICE01
INTERNATIC
DEC C 189
MBASSY OF INDIA
DEPARTMINI OF STATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
5th December, 1949
.172/17/49
894.042/10-749
My dear Mr. Dixon,
Please refer to my letter of even mumber dated
7th October 1949, on the "Treatment of Japanese Patents
Outside Japan".
I have now received instructions from my Government,
approving the draft proposal we prepared on the above subject
894.542/12-549
at a meeting held in the State Department on 5th October,
1949.
I would like to know what further action you are
going to take on the subject.
Yours sincerely,
P. aidyanahian.
P. Vaidyanathan
Mr. Roger C. Dixon
Acting Assistant Chief
FILED
International Resources Division
281949
894.542
U.S. Department of State
Washington, D.C.
action Assigned to
BP
Action Office Syapol
JML
Name of officer
CS/
filu
Dirsetlon to DC/R
S5
工
232796

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.95)
DEC.919
In any refer to:
BP-1.172/17/49
y dear Mr. Vaidyanathan:
Reference is made to your letter of December 5, 1949,
stating that your Government has approved the draft proposal
on "Treatment of Japanese Patents Cutside Japan" prepared at
5
a meeting in the State Department on October 5, 1949. We
are pleased to learn that the Government of India has approved
894.542/12-549
this document.
We have not as yet received all of the replies. When
we have done so, we will inform you as to what further action
needs to be taken which will depend on the nature of the
replies.
Sincerely yours,
Roger C. Dixon
Acting Chief, International
Business Practices Policy Staff
894.542
Mr. P. Vaidyanathan,
Embassy of India,
Washington, D. C.
An.h.
ITP:BP:JhLightman:pra
12-8-49
CS/H
DEC 9 1949 P.N

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
DCRFite
CuA
OFFICE C:
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
JAN 31
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BPRCO
No. 421
American Embassy;
Belgrade, Yugoslavia
25
UNCLASSIFIED
December 20, 1949.
REC'D
JAN 2
Subject:
Information Received from
the Yugoslav Ministry of
AC TION
Foreign Affairs for trans-
EUR
mittal to the Japanese
Board of Patents.
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP
OLI
artios
FE
FF
THE HONORABLE
894.542/12-2049
L
DS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
COM
TAR
WASHINGTON.
894.542/1-441
scm
SIR:
TPLC
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instructions Number 9 of February 1, 1949, transmitting
a letter from the Japanese Board of Patents for forward-
ing to the Yugoslav Patent Office, and Number 38 of
May 17, 1949, transmitting another communication from
the Japanese Board of Patents for forwarding to the
Yugoslav Patent Oice.
These communications were transmitted to the Yugoslav
Mihistry of Foreign Affairs under cover of Embassy motes
dated February 11 and May 31, 1949. On December 15, 1949,
the Embassy received a note from the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in reply, advising that all information concern-
ing Yugoslav legislation on the subject of paterts and
property rights may be found in the official pu ication
of the International Bureau for the Protection of Industrial
Property entitled "Propriete Industrielle". The Ministry's
note further stated that the question of recognition of
Japanese patent and property rights in Yugoslavia was
closely related to the conclusion of a treaty of peace
with Japan.
The Department may wish to transmit this information
to the appropriate Japanese authorities.
Respectfully yours,
For the Charge d'Affaires, a.i.,
duat to Tokyo dr
FAP
1-17-50
Jc
William A. Fowler
FILED
First Secretary
co
1950
WAFriedman:pe
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
This letter was turned over to me by
Miss Hadley when she left the Department.
It is regretted that the attached interim
renly has been delayed.
IR:WMRudolnh
