894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., December 7, 1949 - December 30, 1949 (File 1836)
ID: 894.50-1836   Pages: 98   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-18
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
12-28-49
OF THE
P
UNT STATEB OF AMERICA
FE
BOID
Office of the U. S. Political aviser
200 13
voacfon
for Japan
Po:yo, December 7, 1249
d.C
OFFICE OF 1O
JC
NA
INTERNATIONAL TRADE PY
No. 859
DEC161943
acle
UECLASSIFIEO
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subjoct: Financial and Economic Recomendations
Made by the Japan Management Association.
THRAS B9C
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to a
tologram dated November 22, 1949, sent by the Department of the
Ay to General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied
894.50/12-749
LARIG
Powers, transmitting, in part, the following surmary of a news
380 E80
dospatch fro Tokyo dated November 20, 1949, ubli shed y the
Noy York Times:
"Because of measures taken at the Occu-
pation's insistence, trade is stagnating, stock-
piles are mounting, employers are failin to
meet payrolls and panic is waitin just 
the corner, according to a docunent forwarded
to General Douglas MacARTHUR and the Japanese
Government Coday by the Japan Management Asso-
ciation. Th: body demands among other thins:
sweepin re isions in the Tax Reforn Plan pre-
pared by C rl S. SHOUP; virtual reversal of
Joseh E. ODE's policies for equipment loan
credit; release of export stockpiles to the
domestic market for the dual purpose of check-
ing the black market and providin industrial
funds, and, in defanlt of these and other eces-
sary measures, the immediate devaluation of the
yen."
It ll be moted that the Tolyo correspondent of the Times
basd his despatch upon statements contained in two papers re-
Leased in mid-Novemter by the Japan Management Association
(Koisai Doyu Kai), an organization in Tokyo comprised of key
JAN 25 1950
ttladals of Japanese banks, manufacturing and trading concerns.
The papars in question are entitled "Recent Conditions of Japan's
FILED
Deomony," and Proposals concerning the Enforcement of Tax Reforn
eed by the Shoup Nission." Cight copies of each paper
are transitted barewith.
The Association's demands include: (1) larger and wider tax
odctions; (2) easy and substantial credit extension; (3) re-
leas of stockpiles of goods to the donestic market; (4) devalua-
tiom of the yen; (5) and increased Government spending and return
to daficit financing.
110
POTLASSIFTED
H
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch iio. 859,
December 7, 1949.
-2-
No attempt is being made to analyze the Association's tv
papers, which are so obviously biased that the informed reader
is not misled. However, it may be noted that certain Japanese
Government circles, especially the Econonic Stabilization Board,
apparently welcome and publicize docunents of this type in order
to justify deviation fron econonic stabilization objectives.
In reading these papers, it should be remembered that the
viewpoints expressed by the Association's members are those of
bankers, traders and industrialists who benefited directly from
the pre-stabilization policy of virtually unlinited Government
subsidies and easy provision of credit. They have been consis-
tent in opposing a balanced budget and creation of a sound fin-
ancial econory.
att.
Enclosures:
Eight copies of memorandun entitled
"Recent Conditions of Japan's Lronomy";
Eight copies of memorandun entitled
"Proposals concerning the Enforcement
of Tax Reform Recomunended by the Shoup
Mission".
Parchment Mat to the Department.
501/500
WWDiehl:lee
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
Keiza1 Degu s
(The Japan Managemomù Sssde
I. The Devaluation of Pound Sterllag and the Exonange Mate of Tom
1. The Devs uation of Pound Sterling and ite effect upon Japam
The effect of the recent devaluation of Pound sterling must be ponste
Berlons when the devaluntlon by 30. was far greater than sver expee
and when more than twenty countrles ineludin: many of our export marbo
followed Great ritein almost simulteneously by devaluating their respoo
ourreneies. whether or not our economy mny survive under the newly or
unfevornble circumstances should be atudied in respeot not only to the
amount of pressure to be exerted by the develuation of Pound Sterling ene
other currencler but to th enduring etrenzth of Japen'e economy that mey
be left over tf withatand such preseure. In other words the burden of th
devoluntion in guestion must be considered egainet whatever reserves our
pconomy way atill ove 1n  der to  rouee the subject intell1 ontly:
The econory o Jeoen, morp t il te export industry, nae for past
few monthe heer plnced under serious burdens of more then one kind. The
fixing of a singlv exchange rate for our currency at Y360 to a dollar, the
rreession of the world's economy and drastic measures, such as the abo i
or curteilmert or overnment cubsidies ano hikes in frei ht cherges, toom
to ot our economy out.its "stlited" stete heve all served towarde the
strbilization of our economy but hove et the same time been severe burdene
upon our industry. In order to over come unfavoreble conditione erloime
out the noove ciroumstances the Jr, nese industry has been exerting ith
utmost efforte to retionalize its uperstion. For ex-mple, the retrenoh-
ment of personnel hss been enforoed ny many enterprises. In many ongeo
efflctency of operation has noticeably been inoreased end produotion
hre pr dually denlined. In othere the poroontage 'of aperation. to eapndl
hes been rnised.
t our industry had approaohed to  point 

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
operation or even in the red. The difftoulty has beon found
in the unrealistic evaluation of fixed essets that has limited
ment of deprecietion within one tenth of the necessary and logfoml
On the beets of the fixed nsset-re-valurtion, recommended by Dr.
our. industry still continues 1ts deficit operation end cannot be called
to hov recovered normalcy.
The f et thot our eoonomy is at the preeent confronted with the forth-
coming and inevitable eituntion where the price of rice, electrio power
chorges, frelght costs and such hraic costs of operabion and living will
soon be raised suhstrntielly eh uld not be neglected in coneidering the
efrect of the P und d valuntin.
The ab ve 1 aumatance hed exieted when Pound St-rling wae develuated.
The dev uetlon wan  nor rnd additionel factor to exert its unfavorable
Influenees upon our eronomy. The blow tnet our induetry h cuatr Ined by
pderr poue rovere the t looke on
the Poun' devalun
pdiate retlonalization
the aurface.
There ie Tir
of industry to offset the ill effect coming from the new outeide pressure.
A decigive fall in our export trade epcears inevitable. Furthermore, the
devaluation of Pound Sterl inx has brought a out the following effeots to
our industry which had tern criticelly oporessed by an accute shortage in
the supply of induetrisl funde.(Re: III On Finance)
(1) The stoc: of export 1tems 18 p1ling up due to hish prices of our
goode efter the Pound adveluetion.
(2) Deapite the stotment Lesued by General MacArthur and repeated
dentels by the  nese Government it apperre to e a common opinion amon
forelun buyere that it will be impossiole for the weak and exhausted
Jepanese economy to maintain the present yen rate ageinet the Pound
tion. The ill effect or such sttitudes on the part of buyers upon our
foreign trate neede no elrboration.
(3) The effect of inoresmee in the stook-pile of

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
lon'or even in the red. The dirrioulty hes bed
the unrealistic evaluation of fized earete that has limie
ent of deprecietion within one tenth of the neceseary ana log
On the bests of the fixed assetore-valustion, recommended by Dr.
our industry etill continues its deficit operation and cannot be osll
to heve recovered normalcy.
The fret thet our economy is at the present confronted with the fort
coming and inevitable situation where the price of rice, electrio power
cherges, freight coste and such besic costs of operation and living will
soon be raised substentielly should not be neglected in considering the
effect of the Pound devaluation.
The abcve circumatances. had existed when Pound Sterling was devaluated
The develuetion was a new and additionel factor to exert its unfavorable
influences upon our economy. The blow thet our industry hne custalned by
the Pound devaluation should be regorded fer more severe then it looke on
There 1s little room left in the immediate rationalization
the surface.
of industry to offset thell effect coming from the new outside pressure.
A decisive fall in our export trade epoears inevitable. Furthermore, the
devaluation of Pound Sterling has brought ahout the following effects to
our industry which hed been critically oppressed by an accute shortage in
the supply of industrial funds.(Re: III On Finance)
(1) The stoc: of export 1tems is piling up due to high prices of our
goods efter the Pound develuetion.
(2) Despite the statment 1ssued by General MacArthur and repeated
deniels by the Japanese Government it appeers to be a common opinion among
forelgn buyers that it will be impossiole for the weak end exhausted
Jepanese economy to maintain the present yen rate ageinst the Pound develun-
tion. The ill effect of such sttitudes on the part of buyers upon our
foreign brate needs no elaboration.
(3) The effect of increases in the stock-pile of export items has
been an acute shortage of working funds in the export induatry and a more
end more fevorable merket for buyers.
(4) Any cut in produotion in .the fece of inoremsing stock-piles
inevitably raise production cost, making export still more difrioult

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
2. Th: Devoluetion of Pound Sterling and the Exchange Rete of Yen.
It is our unenimous opin1on thet under the ebove deecribed ciroumstence
it is ipossible to counteract the effect of the Pound develuation with thep
Yen exch nre retf only by m ns of e furtner rationelization of our industry.
In n prent me ority of ceses it would be quite impossible to reduce cost of
production by more then l0  by rationalizif: the wave sstem and such (wagee
in most enterprises ere considered to have renched their low-ri lizits) end
even when considered possible, 1 would require severel months to do so.
It has, therefore been stronl advoceted fron the stendpoint of the export
trede that our currency should be i edintely devalurted. ut when the effeot
of such develustion is considered frem the import side endrother factore to b
taken int~ account, it 1s regarded most desirahle to ma'ntain the prerent
exchange rate for Yen, 1f there 1s some effective meane to offset the influ
of the Pound devaluation and pubsequent 'changes in the world market. If o
limitetione now placed upon our activities in the world trade are lirted,
is not altogether impossible to mantain the Yen rate as it is. 
on the mainalainance of the present value of Yen against the Poum

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) In coder to maintain the present exchange rate of Yen in the face of
the Pound devaluation it is absolutely necessary immediately to realize such
conditions as described below. Unless those conditions are sntisfied in time
our export industry will be exposed to an extreme danger of felling into. a
criticel condition where a develuation of the Yen currency will be the only
means left to save it from  totel collapse.
(2) The preoedent set by the recent develuation of Pound Sterling that
ceme out after the repested denialr by Chancellor of Exohequer Cripps hos
mede it extremely difficult to convince buyers thst the pres-nt rete of ex-
phenge will be maintained for Yen, opoerently leas stable currenoy then Pound
Sterling. It is regarded, thorefore, vit-lly neceseery to hrve a strong end
proper authority to issue a statement to the fffect that the pr sent value of
Yen will be meinteined and will be πainteined by the immediate applicetion of
necessery end effective measures to support the Yen currency.
(3) Amon the externel conditions indiepensable to the mnintainance of
the preeent Yen rete are:

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
(e) wider freedom for Japanese traders to travel end stey abroad.
1
(b) wider freedon for Japanese merchantmarine to nevigate on
foreign sens.
(c) Adoptionoof C.I.F. export and F.O.B import transaction.
(d) Resumption of Most Favored Nation treatment.
(e) R sumption of private 1mport trade and decontrol of as many
trade restrictions es possible.
(f) Freest possible use of U. S. Aid Funds in payment of imports
from countries other than U. S. in order to utilize the Funde
utomost for a sppeedy recovery of Japen.
(4) Amon: the internal conditions mecessary for the same purpose are:
(a) The import of fuodstuffs, oils and fats, rubber, raw hide end
such should be increased in order to eliminate black markets with
a view to lower the living cost end oompleting the groundwork for
a further rationelization of the wage system.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
(b) The ebolition o curteilment of price difference subsidies should
be cerried out graduelly ns the acquisition of raw materials is nor-
malizad nd increreed nd operation rete is relsed.
The above mer suree ere considered necessery es the room for immediate
retionalization of industry 1f too limited to meet successfully with drnstic
effecte of the Pound develurtion.
(5) As & tronsitionel measu'e to meet with the situation created by the
Pound dev:lu tion, it is recommended.
(a) Thet scme speciel action should be adopted to extend low-intereet-
rate credits in crder to relieve the burdens of export commoditiee
piled in etook.
(b) Thet stork-piles of export commodities should be released for
domeetic salee as much ns feasable in order to relieve the undue
pressure of suoh stoch-pils on the export trede and to leseen the
burden of a stringent monay market for export industry and alec to
lower the living cost for the rationalizetion of our economy.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
II. On "Dodge Policy"
There has been no dcubt that the "Dodge Poliey's since it was applied
last Spring has been most effective in stemming the tide of inflation.
Meverthless, the application of the "Dodge Policy" was a big operation
en the Japanese eoonomy for which certain measures must have been employed
to adjust and counteract possible ill effects of suoh a drastic polloy.. .
The remson for several unsatiefactory results arising from the effect of
the "Dodge Polioy" on our economy may be found in the lack of proper measures
to carry out the Policy after it was applied.
(1. Basio changes in the Dodge premises.
The Doge Policy, calling a strict suppression of domestio consumpttme
emised a corresponding increase in our export trade in order to maiatat
ometson level. Great changes that have ocourred in the we 
aseee heve mede it impossible to expand our export trade easily.
asqueotly, the suppresston of domestic consumption has come to

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Vulnerable phases of "Dodge Policy"
There were such vulnerable phases in the Dodge Policy as given below
when it wes first established.
(1) The resisting power of reserve strength of Japan's economy was
overestimated to face successfully the "bleeding", resulting from
the policy of disinflation.
(2) According to the policy of disinflation the contraction and .
expaneion of currency were to be balanced, but the measure taken
immediately to check inflation and establiehment of a single
exchange rate for Yen were bound to be attended by a severe con-
traction of credits.
(3) The Japanese industry had been under Governmental aids and
planned control in reoovering from 1ts war losses, when the
"Dodge Policy" established a principle of free financial opera-
tion on strictly commercial basis, causing much sonfusion to the

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.87)
-6-
#econstreotion.progaan.
7
(4) The "Dodge Polley" abruptly stopped activities of the Recon-
structien Finance Bank and the use of deficit budget on publle
work without formulating cemcrete tramsltional measures to neet
with ohanges and confusions expected to arise from such a drastic
départare from the extsting poliay.
3. Poor operation of the "Dodge Polioy"
She opevation of the "Doage Poliey" on the part of the Gaverement has
bem mueh to be critieised. . Gortain results of the Polley som detissty
rtrery te . Sodge's intention or expestation.
(1) the most importent taing abous dlevet deane to hmdustrbes out

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
mmeh expected supply of industrial funde from this saurce, eausing
otherwise unmooesary confusions.
(2) mergeney measures to meet with drastic changes in the worl
trade market and to relieve unfavorable pressures on our expert 
been extremely inadequate.
4. Under the above ciroumatances in spite of Mr. Dodge's aim at the
pelicy of disinglation to obeok inflation severe dofiationary tendencies
have resulted out of his policy. Economic activitles have been paralysed
and the recenstruetion of Japanese eoonomy, it is feardd, has been halted.
(1) Tremendous inereases in stock-plles of commodities ander sub-
standerd industrial operation and considerable desreases in the
amount of geods transported by rall and ship cloarly show the
suffoeating state of business transactions.
(2) The decrease of produotion that has been cameuflaged by in-
creases in stock-piles has become apparent and inevitable.
(3) The accute shortage of industrial fuads has resuited under

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
-7 -
the above ciroumstanoes. Outstanding accounts reseivable are
increasing Tupraly in amount and diahonered bills sre also in-
oreasing in amount and number. An inereesing amount of raw
materials, allocated by the Government under the coypon system,
1s refused by the allocated dwe to the lack of funds. Finanelal
difficulties have brought about dumping of goods, causing abmormal
drops in commodity prices. The recent stock market ocnditiome
have been semi-pan1cky. All thesc tend to show the sertems ee
of our economy today.
(4) Unemployment has become a serlous soota3 preh
with an inoresstng aiffteutty

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
III. On Finance
The monetery stringency in the industrial oircles has been so serious
that some immediate measures are urgently needed to elleviate the situa-
tion. The matter is taken up below from a general point of view as well
as from the standpoint of industry in particular.
1. General observations.
The fundamental idea composed into Minister Dodge's Plan wae to.
restrict entirely the supply of any amount of funds in addition and in
excess to the normal incomes of the Government that might lead into
inflationary tendencies by Government expenditures out it was not in-
tended to cause any financial deflation. But as desoribed in II On "Dodge
Policy" deflationary tendencies have been apparent"in various respeots,
chief eausds of which may be summarized as follows:
(1) Mr. Dodge's plan to offset the doflationary effeets arising
out of his policies by the use of the U. S. Aid Counter-part Funds
has been realized only to a very disappointing extent because of the
following two reasons.
a

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
(a) The amount of credits.directly extended to industry out
of the Funds has been inadquately small.
The key-point as well as generating power of our present economic
activities may well be found in the supply of equipment funds to
our basic industries. Such equipment or construction funds thnt
by nature are supplied on long term credit basio conrot bc ex-
peoted to be supplied by ordinary commercial t. .nder the ab-
normal post-war conditione in Japan. They must, therefore be
supplied by some special means. With the Reconstruction Finance
Bank out of picture dir ct loans out of the Counter-part Funds
are the only source of such funds now available to industry.
Too small an amount supplied from this source has immediately
caused an aeute shortage of industrial funds and in. turn invited
a sutden deerease in the demand for produetion goode, ceusing a
atustrial funés.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
(b) Furthermore, procedures required for the accomodation of
credits out of the Counter-part Funds have beer altogether in-
adequate, holding up results of the much expucted policy.
About 860,0c0,000,000 have been made ave1lable out of the
Counter-part Funde, wh1le only Y18,300,C00,C00 have been
ut1lized, leaving an astounding eum of about Y48,00c,00c,000
still out of the financial market untouched.
(2) The prinoipals ard interests collected by the Feconst ustion
Finance Bank and a conaiderable portion of the fund. of the
Depos1t Bureau, Finance Min1stry, totalling about Y40,000,000,000
have been withdrawn from the money market end heve not been mede
avallable to industrial uses. A tighter money market is a na-
tural consequence under euch circumstances. It is difficult to
understand why funds of the Deposit Bureau, which originally
came from induetries through postal savings mhould not be con-
verted into industrial funde. It 1s, therefore, earneetly depirrd
to convert the neposit Bureau funds back into industrial funds.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
~9.
(3) As a result of the above two, some 890,c0c, c00,r 0 hive been
out of the money market, causing definitely dcfinticnary tenden-
cies. The expansien of credits by the Bank of Japan to commerolal
banks hes been a netural consequence despite the polioy of the
Bank to minimize it. Credits thus acconmodated by the Bank of
Japen have not, of course, been sufficient to setisfy the general
demand for funds and an ecute shortage of industrinl funds still
remains to be satisfied. One of the most important financial
problems todey 1s how to relieve the pressure centered upon the
Bank of Japen for accommodating funds.
(4) The shortage of monetary supplies appears to be intensified
towards the year end. While the rise in the index-number of com-
modity prices for the past one year wae 12 to 13 per cent that of
production was computed at some 46 per cent over the previous year.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
The amount of monetary ciroulation showed en increase of only 24.7
per cent as of the month of September last over the period of one
year. From this fact alone it mey be seen easily that the morrtory
supplies have been inadequately small. At the seme tine the stock-
piles of goods have enormouely inoreased and ars ti ated to
be well over YB0,O00,000,000 and the rate of currency turn-over
has definitely slowed down.
Under the above circumetences the present amount of money in
oirculation is already too small to meet with legitimete demends
for it. Furthermore, even under the stringent policy on the
monetary cisculetion, as described above, the currency circula-
tion as of last September showed an increase of 25 per cent es
compared with the same month of last year. Just et this time and
under such circumstences we hear of the policy of the authorities
concerned to limit the maximum amount of money in circulation et
the end of this year at ¥355,000,000,000 or the same amount allowed
for the end of last year. It has been a customary phenomenon of

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
our economy to find the money circulation increase over the year
end by some 40 percent only to shrink back to the normal figure
during the months of January anld Feburary. When with the in-
crease of 25 per en i in the monetary circulation the shortage
of funds is keenly felt ac it is, if the maximum issuance of money
over this coning year end is limited to the same amount as last
year, deflationary effects of such an arbitrary policy may most
likely prove fatal to our economy. The logicel and realistic
adjustment of the year-end monetary situetion 1s, therefore,
regarded as the most important and urgent financial problem.
(5) Another financial problem of the present day Japan 1s how
to supply funds where most needed and when needed for the re-
construction of its eccnomy. Our industry, especially basic
industries, suffered a greet loss during the war and have in
many ways been placed at the mercy of the economic stabiliza-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
tion policy. It has not yet recuperated, so to speak, from the
serious sickness of the war. As found in many countries after
the war, under such circumetances some special financirl measures
must be employed to get the industry beck on 1ts fers. When our
economy is confronted witn the situation where such speciel
measures are most effective and most needed, nothing adequate
has been done to fill up the vecency creeted by the abrupt
abolition of the Reconstruction F'ranc: Benk activitiee. It is
only natural, therefore, finencial supplies have been extremely
short to our industry especially key end basic industries.
The rectificetion of this situetion is urgently requested.
2. Results of the stringent monetary policy in the industry.
(1) As n result of the extreme finencial stringency it has been
found in many instences necessary to abondon or postpone plans
for the reconversion, exoeneion or repair of industrial facill-
ties so vitally needed for the reoonstruction of our econ ay.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 11 -
Thus effective demends are decreasing while stockpiles ar in-
creasing when tre industry is operating fer below its normal rete
of operation. A: the same time the monetary situation is forcing
the already low rate of operation still further down and is re-
sulting in an alarming increase in the amount of accounts receivable
outstanding. The shortage of industrial funds is nothing but seri-
ous and critical.
(2) Furthermor-, the situation arising from the devaluation of
Pound Sterling, as fully described in I Dhe Develuation of Pound
Sterling and the Exchange Rate of Yen, has affected our export
industry to no small extent, intensifying the tendencies given
above.
(3) There are many companies of fame that are behind 'in the pay-
ment of wages. Others are dumping their products in an effort
to get cash necessary day to day. . Still others are relying upon

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
black market loane at interest rates ever 10 per cent a month or
are tryine to increase capitel under obvious difficulties, throw-
ing the stock merket into a semi-panicky confusion. These cir-
cumetances must be celled in whatever way they may be looked at
"Penic Around the Corner."
(4) Measures urgently demanded by tre industry to Jele effect
1mmedietely are:
(a) Supply of necessary funds for the reconversion, expansion
and repair of industriel facilities vital to the reconstruotion
of our economy and to increasing effective demande.
(b) Easy nooommodatione of loane at & low interest rate for the
dispoeition of eccumulated stockpil:s.
(c) Emergency mepsure on the part of the Government to gurantee
part of the riek involved in euch loane as pbove by the effective
use of funds made available from the Counter-part Funds and funds
withdrawn by the Reconstruction Finance Bank.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
-12 -
(5) The 1mmediate application of the above measures 1s regarded
more important than the question of how much funds fiould be
made avaflable by them. It is no exaggeration to say unless
some effective measures are taken to relieve the situation, 1t
may develop into a serious financial panic. Early symptoms of
the orisis seem already apparent in the recent beheviops of the
stock market.
IV. On Interests Rates
.'High interest rates, a burden on industry.
As a rule, when inflation is advaneing, interest rates are bound to
go up but as soon as inflationary tendencles are checked, they are exgootes
to go besk to their nermal standard, In this reepoot interest gatps

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
nature that high interest rates of today may be regarded netural from the
stand point of demand-and-supply. It is, however, quite another problem
how high interest should be under the present conditions. As long as the
interest payment 1s a burden on the industry, the prevailin- rates are
regarded too high. For instance, the official figure: for the cost of
proceseing a bale of 20-count cotton yarn include over Y2, c00 to be pa1d
as interest against the total cost set at Y7, coc for the prccess. This
shows cloarly the burden of paying interest is tco much for the industry.
Under such circumatances there 1e little doubt that intereets rates shculd
be lcwered as much es possible.
2. Rrem frr lowering interoat ratee.
Before the war the ratio f expenditurer and intereste paid by com-
meroial banks against deposits averaged around 1 per cent whils it is sald
to be over 5 per cent now. This advance may be attributed partly to the
more complicated operation requiredfor banking business since after the
wer. But the chief reason for the rise in deposit-expenditure ratio is
found in the expanded banking business when activities of our economy are
..

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
far below tre pre-war level and financial treneactions er bein uch lim-
ited. It 1s, therefore, necersery to rationclize bankin operation, mrk-
ing room for lowering interest retes. A few suggestions are given beloc:
(1) A minimum requirement should be get for the amount of deposits
and loans for bank brenches and all branches not meeting with the
requirement should be closed
(2) The rationalization of banking operation cur  personnel
retrenchment should be accelerated.
(3) Thé 1spuanc- of Y1,000 notes, s1-pler tax procedure on small
deposits and such ceasure: should bo considered to sirplify bank-
ing operation.
V. On the Shoup Recommendations
We do not hesitate a minute to accept the fundamental ideas and
prinoiples contained in the Shoup Recommendations with profound reppent

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
Recommerdations most successfully it must be pointed out that there are
some serious defects in the concrete program presented to reform our tax
eyetem.
1. Actual conditons in Jalar ar not fully grasped.
(1) The abolition of consumption tax on silk ard wcolen febrics
and surar, es re^ommended, seems to reflect the lack of informa-
tion on the livin. standard and rorditions in Jeunn which are
unbelievably low as compared with thoer 1n U. S. A.
(2) Though the hi-h rate of 55% on persoral incomes would etimu-
lat the accumuletlon of ontitl, 1ts applic tion on annual incomes
of Y300,c00 does not appear log1cal when such ineomee are con-
sidered not sufficlent to support middle-class frmilies.
(3) The 1mposition of ret-worth tax on property of Y5,000,000
or more in value se ms to come from the same misconception of
the value of Yen. ¥5,000,000 1s only 14,000. It 1s deff1cult
to understend why men with such small properties should be olrssed
among the well-to-do and tnxed on their belonginge. Moreover,

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
if effected as proposed, there would be too many objects for
taxation, involvinz much technical difficulties. At least
x10,000,000 should be the lowest level for the impos1tion of
this tax.
(4) The Recommendations show an excellent tax system to be
applied parmanently but lack necessary conoideration to meet
with the present emergancy period. Some transiticnal .asures
must be employed before a parmanent system is esteblished
under a stebilized state of economy. Fabrics, sugar, shoes
and such may well be necessities of living under e normal
economic condition but when 60-70 per cent of incomes is being
spent on food these items should be classed as sem1-luxuries.
A ppecial considerstion is neceesary on personal inoome tax
especially on small incomes.
(5) When the ability of our loeel gowernmente

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
and colleoting taxes 1s so poor as it 1s, the new and com-
plioated added-value tax should not be created.
(6) Taxes on added-velue and fixed aseets would be too much
of a burden on our already critically weokened industry.
(7) One of the aims of the Recommendations is found in the
prevention of tex evesions. The chief reason for the preve-
lent tax-dodging today is that taxes are too heavy. This 1s
the cauge to be eliminated before reforming the tax system.
2. Pointe to be re-consid red.
(1) Until our economy ie restored to normaloy, indirect taxes,
renounced by the Recommendations, should be continued so as to
lessen personal tax and 1ts supplementary tax burdens.
(2) The enforcement of added-value and fixed asset taxes should
●
be pcstponed at least a year and be carefully studied.
(3) should not be abolished nor should shereholders' blank power
of ettorney be limited in order to avoid unmessary eonfusion
and ill-effects from such actions mder the present conditions.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
1. No. 2 to Desp
859, 12/7/49, 
LAD, Tokyo, on
ancial & Economt
Proposals concerning the Enforcement 
mdendations madey
Japan Management
Tax Reform Recommended by the Shoup Mise
ciacion."
-- In Particular Reference to Corporation
Ke1za1 Doyu Ka1
(The Japan Management Association
while we do not hesitate to accept the general ideas underlying the
recommendations for a tax reform made by the Shoup Mission, it is con-
sidered that the suggestions in their concrete details do contain --
presumably because of the difficulty to grasp the actual conditions in
this country during the Misslon's brief stay -- a few problems which sholld
be carefully re-examined from a basic and comprehensive viewpoint. We
believe that it is incumbent upon us, who are best acquainted with the
current conditions of this country, to carry out such re-examination in
earnest in order to absorb the cream of the great work of Dr. Shoup, and
that such a step is the best may to pay respects to his reoommenlati
However, for wne reason or anotl

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
to make a basic re-examination of the recommendations and are confronted
with the possibility of having to accept a tax reform immediately along
the lineg aa suggested by the Mission at all events. In view of such a
possibility, we submit hereunder our proposals, giving expression to our
desires in particular reference to taxes imposed on corporations.
1. Reappraisal of Fixed Assets.
(1) Measure Preparatory to Enforcement of Reappraisal.
A. As e measure preparatory to enforcement of reappraisal of
fixed assets, tho fundamental principles should be established
1mmediately in regard to the stabilized price structure in the
post-war economy of the nation.
A proper revaluation of fixed assets depends to a large extent on
how their standard earnin? power should be estimated in each line of busi-
ness under the changed conditions after the termination of the war. How-
ever, at the moment the prices and charges are fraught with unnatural un-
evennesses created by government controls and other artificial measures,

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
1
- 2 -
a es!des so far nohod" can tell in what altered relations those prices
a. herges would be stabilized in the future. In the circumetances, it
'li e extremely difficult to estimate a fair and reliable earning power
of te respective fixed assets. Thus one of the mein objectives of the
Issi'n in recommendin: the reappraleal of fixed assets, 1.e. the objective
 the enterprises throuzhout the country to start on a uniform foot-
' ference to their assets, will be seriously Jeopardized. It 1s
, therefore, that in directing reappraisal of the assets, a price
rrjeture consistent with the reappraisal value of the mssete will be
' iately set up, as en inseparable measure.
B. In enforcing revaluation of fixed assets, the depreciation
cost on the basis of the reappraigal value should duly be
incorporated in the relative official prices.
iundorstood that one of the chief obfectims 

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
 lustion of fixed assets 1s to establish a Bound basie for enabline a
reascnable depreciation accountin: to be made in each line of businese.
 card to such commodities and services es are officially priced,
rosures should duly be taken to include the depreciation cost in the prices
 the hasls of the reappraisal value of the relative assote. In other worde,
the tax poliey and the price policy should be executed ir close rrlationship
vith each other.
(2)
Method of Reappraieal cf Fixed Assets.
A. In makirs reappraisel of aesets not yet in operation or in
determinir= the degref of moral deterioration of assets, a
special arranzement should be made, givine a certain propor-
tion cf allowance to their reappralsal values and enabling
tre final reveluation to ce made within five yeare there-
efter.
That proportion of the equipments, not yet operative, can be brought
t effective operation? To wht extent are the production facilities
1: in operation to be regarded as outmoded from the international point
(I view? The answere to those queations largely depends on the existing

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
outlook on how our national economy is to be finally linked with them.
At the moment, however, not only the overseas conditions are unknown
to us, but there are also numerous indefinable factors in regard to the
prospective trades with the pound bloc area and Communist China, so that
a stage has not as yet been reached in which the business at its own
responsibility 1s able to work out reasonable reappraisal values of its
assets. Therefore, it is desired the following provisional measures be .
adopted'for the present.
a. Reappraisel value of fixed assets will be determined pro-
visionally by a certain prescribed date, but a certain pro-
portion thereof (say 30 per cent). will be allowed as an
undetermined portion, which may finally be dtermined some
time within five years (the time-limit for dispositiom 
1).

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
b. In regard to all hhe assets not yet in operation and to that
portion of the reappraisel value, given as allowance, of the
assets in operation, the time-limit for payment of the tax
on revaluation write-ups will be deferred until such time as
their values are finally determined, (Namely: they will be
treated in the same way as the production facilities designat-
ed for reparations.) During such interim por: d tn: relative
assets will be required to be depreciated or trr bisis  their
former book-values.
B. In the case of specirl assets such es wartime standard ships
and the like, which have to be quickly written off, the re-
appraisal value should. be reduced to the minimum, and a high
rate of depreciation should be specially prescribed for them.
Many of the assets may possess considerable earning powers in the
existing conditions and be made the objects of revaluation acoordingly, bt
they are dietined to be scrapped in the near future, on aocount of the
expected recovery of normal world economy or otherwise. It is necessary,
therefore, to fix a special high rate of deoreclation for those assets, 

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
the objeotive of depreciation accounting is unattainable by taking only
their moral deterioration into consideration.
(3) Reappraisal Gains Tax and Method of Payment.
Theoretically speaking, a tax on gains should be levicd only on profit
surpluses; and the capital surplus such as the reappraisal gains should b
exempted therefrom. This is a principle actrally confirmed in the U. S.
taxation system. Therefore, should it be the cese that the proposed tax
on revaluation gains is to be levied on the underetending that such gaine
are regarded as acquired profits, we are diametrically opposed to it.
It 1s understood, however, that the tax recommended by Dr. Shoup
1s simply a "reappraisal gains tax," without any inference of a "profit
margins tax," and that it has been suggested as a kind of temporary pro-
perty tax, as the only alternative under the existing cireumstanoes, tth
a vtew to equalization of tax burdens, and also in order, to meet the
financlal requirements to make up for the expected sharp deoline in the

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
a senee, can we recognize the recessity of introducing the reappraisal gains
tax as suggested.
As at present the business in general is suffering from serious shortage
of money supply, it may readily be admitted that the irp -'' lon of the tax
will create heavy burdens on business, and thet it wil? le exuremely dif-
fioult to raise the necessary fund for ite payment. Since the tax is consi-
dered to possess the nature of a temporary property tax, it is desired the
undermentioned special measures be adopted in regard to its payment.
A. No time-limit should be prescribed for the payment of reappraisal
gains tax. Instead, the payment will be made in every acrounting
period in the amount of the difference by which the burden of cor-
porate tax on each operating unit is reduced, on aocount of the
revaluation of its assets, below what it has borne in the form
of corporate tax under the current regulations, until such time
as the full amount is paid up.
It is understood the main finanoial objective of the reappraieaß
gains tax is to cover the expected decrease in the oorporate 

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
receipts, resulting from revlauation of assets.
If so, such an objective mey be mostly achieved through the
abovementioned formule、of peyment. Besides, the formule will
work in keeping with the ability of the business to pey, end
eccordingly will ensure satisfactory tax coolections. For
instance, business units with a lerge earnin: capacity will
automatically make tax payment in the full amount at one
time, while others with inferior earning cepacity will take
longer time in making fuil payment.
We belleve the abovementioned meth:od is mest reasonable and
practical. But if for some cverriding reasons it is diffi-
cult to adopt, such a formula, we desire that the measures as
Geperibed next be taken as the second best policy.
Mission's repont

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
the period of five years as a reneral rule to issue additional
stocks by way of an increase in "speciol capital fund," an
exception will be recognized to permit the corporetion concerned
to raise the fund for the payment of the reappraisal gains tax,
by issuing additional stocks through. allotment to the stock-
holders, only up to the required amount.
In the ebove connection, if the current stock price of, the cor-
poration concerned is below a certain amount, sey Yloc, issuance
et & discount will re recounized ac ording to a certain reeson-
eble schedule.
C. In regard to such types of businesr s electricity, electric
railwey, shipping, etc., where lerge emounts of esets with
compratively long service life are fixed and the rates of profit
ere generally low, measures will be taken:
e. To reduce the rate of tax from 6 per cent to say 4 per cent.
b. Or to extend the time for payment of tax-from 3 years to sey
6 years end to aliow instelment payment eccordingly, 1f
the adoption of the meesure as mentioned in a. above 1s

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
difficult.
D. As the measure as proposed in A. above cannot reasonably be
arplied to small-scale business, special financial Jacilities
will be extended to the entrepreneurs of such business to raise
fund, equivalent to the amount of the reappraisal gains tax, on
the security of their fixed assets.
E. In caso the Minister in charge recognized the actual state of
the assets is such as to render the payment of the prescribed,
tax on reappraisal gains impossible, he will approve special
deferred and/or instalment payment, reducing the daily inter-
est for arreage and rescinding additional levies. However,
nntil the tax is paid, the entrepreneurs concerned will be
precluded fromdepreciating the relative assets on the basis
of the full reappraisal values.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Enterprise Tax on Value-Added Rasis.
The value-added tax 1s literally without precedent throughout the
world. It happens the first experiment of this new tax 1s now going to
be made in this country still exhausted after the Jar's endin. Roth
theoretically and technically or in relation to the capacity of the tax-
payers, the proposed tax poses numeroue problems. To make the situatlon
apparently more difficult, it 1s proposed to plase such an entirely rew
tax in the hands of tho local governments, whose tax-coll s: tions
are decidedly inferior and inadequate as compared w'th se or re
national government. Therefore, no small measure of difficulties are
pooted in impssin the proposed tax. Frankiy speaking, we cre of the
opinion that the imposition of the tax had better be deferred for the
present, 1f possible, antil such time as the local taxes.us a whole are
subjeoted to a thorough and careful re-exasination.
 But if the value-added tax must be enforced forthwith at all, the
tax should be simplified, for reasons given above, in order to facill-
tate lts application, taking the ability or the local governments Into

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
all account. If this point 1s not only considered, we are afraid the
uposition of the tax is likely to lead to frequent confusions in the
isiness of tax collection, corruption of taxation officials taking advan-
ge of such confuslons, and to other evils of immeasurable gravity.
Besides, the tax 1s experted to have such far-reaahing effeots on
re business that as a result the nation's economy itself might be crip-
.ed in the long run. The main subjects of importance, which require
-examination from our standpoint, along with our counter-proposale,
are es enumerated below.
(1) In consideration of the administrative ability of the local
governments, the objeots of the value-added tax should be
confined as far as practioable to those whioh can be clearly
and unegitrooally defined.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
Acoordin to the Miselon's report, the objecte on which the. imposi-
tion of the value-added tax is recommended ere considerably multifarious.
Many of them cannot easily be defined. The collectin of such e tax 1s
expeoted to involve a plenty of work, give rise to disputes and necessi-
tate disoretionary considerations, inevitably leading to corruptions.
It 1s therefore proposed to simplify the tax as follows.
A. The objeots of the value-added tax will be limited to profit
and wage.
B. Instead of applving a uniform rate, differentiel rates will
一
be established, for instence, in the ratio of 5 on profit and
3 on wage.
(2) The stendard rate of the tax should be determined only after
 thorough examination of the nctual conditione.
It is stated in the Mission'a report: " It is likely. that an
average rate of somewhere around 4 per cent to 6 per cent will be needed
to mssure the prefectures a yield of 44 brilion yen." However, accord
ing to our tentative calculation, the tax is considered to yield a f
greater amount than what was estimeted by Dr. Shoup, even if it is

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
一8一
levied at the rate of 4 per cent. Therefore, in fixing the rate, it is
strongly desired that the objects of taxation be thoroughly examined and
defined, in order to establish a fair and equitable standard. fIn this.
connection, it should be pointed out that thelocal governments at the mo-
ment are not equipped with an adequate ability to carry out the required
inquiries.)
(3) The rates as mentioned in (1) above will be made to vary with
each section of industry in conformity with the actual oonditions,
instead of being applicable on e uniform basis.
Presumably, the idea of the value-added tax is supported by at least
two conditions. The one is the anticipation that the major portion of the
tax may be transferable to consumers, and the other le the neeeamity to
moderaize the produotion equinments of

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
But as a matter of fact, those two conditions have not thelr full validity
in this country in connection with some important types of business.
Therefore, it is considered advisable that the rate of tix in te made
flexible under speoial arrangements to meet the actual conditioms. For.
instance:
A. In the casé of charges forelectricity, gas, etc. and fares for
electric railways and busses, it is almost impossible, in the
nature of things, to shift the value-added tax to the consumers.
So is the case also with international commodities. Further,
the possibility of shifting the tax to consumers may vary with
whether the business is conducted on a local scale or on á
nation-wide scale. It would be most desirable to establishe
schedule of equitable rates for respective fields of business,
taking the above into full account. In our opinion, that is
exactly what the Mission's report has in mind.
B. To be sure, as pointed out in the Mission's report, our in-
dustrial equipmente have to be urgently modernized. But that.
1s not the whole of the requirements of our national esofomy

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
at the moment. Japan, with her surplus of population, has to
foster also.such types of industry as in their nature employ
a lerge number of workers. Such types of business, however,
are et present in a more difficult situetion than ere other
types. If the velue-added tax would be enforced exactly as
suggested, it will hit them the hardest. Therefore, a set
of moderate rates of taxation, with graduation according to
"types of business, should be formulated in regard to those
lines with large payrolls.
(4) In introduci-g the value-added tax, transitional measures should
be formulated, giving due allowance to the past capitel.invest-
ments. (The measures naturally become superfluous, if the sim-
plification as preposed in (1) above 1s carried out.)
In the Mission's report it 1s suggested in reference to

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
zents 1n business thet the so-called "negative value-ndded" should be
carried forward to be offset against velue-added amounts in succe-din
years. Applyinp the sane principle, some transitiongl measures should
be taken, in introducin the new tax, also 'n recard to past investments,
permittin the tax applireble to them to be offset in accordance with a
certain schedule against value-added amount:, for instance, over a suc-
ceeding period of five to ten yeers.
(This propossl becomes sucerfluous, if thoroush exemination
of the actual conditions 1s satisfactorily cerried out and
fa'r and equitable rates ars established as mentioned in (1)
above.)
The merit of the proposed value-added tax is to eliminate dunl taxa-
-lon. But if interest payable on money borrowed by bueiness concerns in
ron ral is taxed as shown in the Miesion's report, it will constitute an
evident onse of duel taxation, es the relative amount is gain subjected

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
-10 -
to the value-added tax in the banking business. In the circumstances,
of the amount payabl: as interest by entrepreneurs, the interest on
loans borrowed from financial institutions should properly be exempted
from the value-added tax. Such e step is also necescary for the sound c.v
development of the nation's economy.
3. Tax on Land and Depreciable Assets.
A tex of such a high rate es suggested by the Mission 1mposed on
all fixed assets, that are depreciable, in eddition to land and house, 1s
expected to weigh heavily on the business in general. Besides, the
burden borne by the business is likely to wary to a considerable extent
from one locality to enother, giving rise to no small measure of dif-
ficulties. Therefore, we are basically of the opinion for the reasons
as stated in connection with the value-added tax that the imposition

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
the expanded real estate tax had also better be postponed for the time
being, and that a fundamental and comprehensive re-exam'nation be care-
fully carried out in the first place.
But if the tax must be enforced forthwith, we strongly proposi the
adoption of the undermentioned measures.
(1) The objects of the new real estat- tax should t sinplified.
The undermentioned measures will be taken to si. lify ths taxable
objects for the same purposes as already statea in r=ference to the value-
added tax.
A. For the sake of simplification, 'the valuation of fixed assets
for tax purposes will be based on their book-values, although
some measure of unfairness may result in certain cases.
B. In case the tax is levied on a valuation reached otherwife
than the method as mentioned in A. above, the yalue of the
tools, implements and furnitures will be exempted from taxation.
(2) The rate of the tax for the first year should be made lower than
the recommended rate.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
It 1s proposed in the Mission's report that the tax rate for the first
mar should be 1.75 per cent of the real estate value and that the rete mey
be ncreased to a maximum of 3 per cent thereafter. However, according to
our rough calculation, even the rate of 1.75 per cent in the first fisc
vear is expected to yield a revenue far in excess of the amount as est!m: 
by Dr. Shoup, and is likely to lead to reckless spending by local goveir-
ments. Moreover, the rate of 1.75 per cent in the first year already weishs
on the business as heavily as does the tax on reveluation write-ups, end
besides the tax, unlike the latter, has to be paid every year. If account
is teken of the fact that, even in regard to payment of the reappraisal
gains tax, special meesures es steted before have to be asked for to re-
lieve its effects on the business, it may be eaey to aseess the magnitude
of the preseure the new real estate tax would bring to bear on the nation's
economy.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Assuming that in so far as the tax rate for the first year is concerned
the suggestion of the Mission 1s merely a tentative one based on certain
hypothetical conditions, it 1s desired that in enforcing the tax the objects
of taxation be thoroughly defined and a reasonable rate be esterlisred w:th
care, so that any collection over the required amount may be forestalled.
(3) On fixed assete, other than land and house, the new reel estate
tax should be levied at special moderate rates, with variations
with each line of business.
The new reel estate tax on production facilities such as machine?,
railway lines, vessols, etc., effeots the business far more seriouely thun
the tax on land and house. Besides, different types of business will he or-
fected differently. For inatance: The ffects may vary with electric rail-
way bueiness and electricity supply business; iron-manufscturing and chemi-
cal industry of high dezree; and other light industry in general. The new
real estate tex accordingly should be veried in its rete eccording to each -
type of businese, and the equipmente directly employed in production, un-

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
- 12 -
like lend and house, hould be taxed at moderate rates.
In view of the intention of the Mieeion's report in providing epecial
measures for farm land by exempting it from the enterprise tax,we believe
our proposal as stated above may be quite Justifiable.
(4) Dual taxation resuiting from the imposition of the new real es-
tate tax should be eliminated.
Among the local taxos there are railway line tax, automobile tax,
electric pole tax, etc., which with the introduction of the new real estate
tax will constitute dual taxation. It is desired that measures be mdepte
eimer to abolieh the formar or abandon the latter, to do uway with
y.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
4. Anonymous Ownership of securities.
It 1s desirabl- the present practice of anonymous ownership of bonds
be continued and the proposed restrictions on the transfer of stocks be
eased.
The Misslon's report recommends for the purpose of preventing tax
evasion that bearer bonds should be barred. But it is understood the report
does not deny the anonymous ownerehip of public loan bonds, If so, those
who want to evade taxes may attain their aim by means of owning the latter.
Thus the objeotive of the proposal in denyin the anonymous ownership of
seourities in general and isposing restrictions on the transfer of stocks
1s easily defeated. To sa: the least, the proposed restrictions are like-
ly to bring about larger evils oy eliminating smaller inequities.
However, as the unreetricted transaction in stocke under blank letters
of attorney, as at present, is not without ite undesirable effects, some
measures mey properly be taken to check the abuses, f.1. ty : ktng it com
pulsory to mak- formal transfer of stocks in eech business pericd of the
oorporations ooncerned.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
jovisional Measuree Attendont on the Froposed
iscontinuance of Percer tage-wise Undervaluation
Inventory Assets, Seccrities, etc.
The valuetion of inventory assets, securities, etc. owned by bua1-
ss units at present should be made in accordance with the new method
of inventory accounting.
The Mission's report recommends immediate discontinuance of the
practice as permitted by the Ministry of Finanee in the past to make
valuation of inventory assets for tax purposes on the basis of actual
purchase prices less certain percentages (5 per cent fer land, 1f include
Inveatory, and seourities, and 10 per cent for other asrets).
For the interim period of alteration in the practice, it is des

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
A. In ro fer as the relative veluation accounts held uf
business units at present are concerned, it should be cle
established, though more or lesa a matter of self-evid cr,
that when a business unit has elected one
or nother
from among the straight-line method, the first-out meti
last-in first-out method, the normal stork method, etc.
practice of setting up a separate valuation account as 1
past will be discontinued, end the method of depreciatior
elected will be applirable without exception, and that on.
the assets as eveluated are sold or otherwisf disposed of th.
gains reelized will become taxable.
5
B. The veluation accounts held at present by security deelers in
reference to securities, pruchased by them for re-sale, should
also he treated as mentioned in A.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECQRDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
5
1665
DC101949
AIRGRAM
N4
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Uply diyos
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
12/19/e19
Date of
CONFIDENTIAL
meiling: December 9, 1949.
1219/49
NA
Roc d: Dec. 74, 1949 4.24 rm
2
FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY
A
ACTION
file
894.50/12-849
FE
Secretary of State,
INFO
AFFAIRS
DCR
Washington
1949
EURX
ETR
A-347, December 8, 1949.
partment of State
E
DCL
(Thie airgram vupplements this Mission's
ITP
A-333 December 2, 1949, and earlier air-
OFD
grams in this series. Request distribu-
TRC
tion be limited to Department for reasons
OLT
stated in A-21 of January 28, 1949.)
POS
F
Great Northern ncouraged by Communist Feelers. Mr. Lars P.
R
TILLITSE, Danish Diplomatic Representative, Tokyo, stated on Dec. 6, 1949,
to officor of this Mission that he had recently received from Mr. E. C.
POULSEN, representative in Shanghai of (Daniah) Great Northern Telegraph
Company, indications to effect that Chinese Communists at Shanghai had
expressed interest in. opening negotiations for restoration of Great Nor-.
thern's telegraph service out of that city, Mr. Tillitse requested that
this report, which ne waid should be accepted with reservation, be treated
as confidentfal for time being Dept will recall that Great Northern,
(British) Cable & Wireless, and (American) Commercial Pacific Cable Company
had conducted unsuccessful negctiations with Communications Ministry of
Chinese Nationalist Govt for almost two years prior to Nov. 1948. Mr.
Tillitse mentioned receipt of foregoing report at luncheon given by him
and attended, among others, by Mr. Frank FLYNN, President of Commercial
Pacific Cable Company, and by Tokyo representatives of Cable & Wireless
and of Great Northern.
PAR  SI
2. President of Commercial Pacific Optimistic. Mr. Flynn, who Bas
DC/L
is Mission that he was optimistic over prospects for successful nego
ation with Japanese Communications Ministry for restoration of his eo
ny'e service from Tokyo to Guam Details regarding these negotiatione
.1 be reported in due course.
H
3. Status of Trade Accounts with Nationalist China. According to
data mupplied upon request to this Mission by Mr Frank R J. GERARD

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo'e A-347,
December 8, 1949.
- 2 -
(ESS), General "eadquarters, SCAP, total trade between Japan and "ation-
1ist China since the Japanese surrender to date mmounts to '40,407,769.91,
including 21, 633,420 85 for exports and £18, 774,349 06 for 1mports.
Scap'a Chine "A" account, covering govt-to-govt trading, mhovs exports to
China valued at 20.561,626.47 with imports at 15,893,288.89; accord-
Ingly, the amount which Chinese Nationalist Gort owes Japan 1s $4,688,337.58.
ScAP's Chins "B" account, covering private trading, shows exports to China
at 1,071, 794 38 axi inports into Japan of £2,881,060 17, there being thue
a crodit in favor of Chinese merchants of "1, 809,265.79 Hr, Gerard statee
that this crudit. cannot be used as offset to debt owed Japan by Chinese
ationaiis. Govt. Some payments, mainly in form of credits derived from
ale of ininctrial ait from Taiwan, are being made against that debt,
however
4 No Railway Tios Available for Taiwan. out Gon CHU Shih-ming,
Chief, Chinese rission in Japan, under date of lov. 16, 1949, asked Chiof
of Staff, Hu. SAP. an to availability in Japan of 300,000 railway ties
for use in rehabilitation of laiwan railway system. In letter dated Nov.
26, 1949, Chief of  taff replied in part that number of railway ties cur-
rently stockpiled in Japan amounts to only a fraction of requirements of
Japanese railways, that there are no surplus ties available for axport;
that "extromely critical" forest situation in Jipan precludes felling of
trees and prouuction c! sleepers for Taiwan; and that Taiwan might wish
to investigate possibilitles of obtaining ties from Philippines or U.s.
5. Private Imixrt Program Begine to Take Shape. Serious work be-
gan this weck on remulations for return to private im orte, echoduled to
take place on Jan 1. 1950 Although details not yet available, it at-
pears that licenses will be ;ranted throuih banks, which will receive
exchange allocations from Jaganese ovt's Foreign rxchange Control Board;
latter, it in hoped, will grant such allocations on firnt-come-first-
sorred basis within general framework of quarterly import budpet to be
drawm up by special "Council of linistere " Cowicil to have irime
Minister as chairman, with Minister of Pinance, International Trade and
Industry. Agriculture and Forestry, and Tranaportation, and Director
General of cononic Stabilization Board as members. budget as drawn un
will, of course, require Ca: ap, roval Special problem presented by
materials for which iaporter will require allocation; allocated commo-
ditien as specified (liot of such comodities has nol yet been drawn up
by kSs, and will no doubt involve considerable inter divisional fouding
in Ss), must be covered by certificate to be issued by 'inistry of
International Trade and Industry (HitI); it is not contemplated that
additional import license will be required, since Hiti will have control
over exchange buigeted for allocated items. Problem of how to prevent
"avoritim and discriaination in operation of both HITl and Foreign Ex-
inge Control Hoard looms large neanwhile, first shipments under
CONFIUANTIAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo°e A-347,
December 8, 1949
~3
license-free export system have begun to move, with no evidences yet
of serious shortcomings in vystem
6. Detils of xport Controls beins Forwarded. Reference made
to this Hission's despatches no 819 of Nov 25, 1949. "Transittal
of Final Draft of Foreign Ixchange and Foreign Trade Control Law',"
and no 824 of Hov 28, 1949. Transmittal of Copy of Foreign xchange
Control board Establisament Law " According -o telegran sent by Ess
to Dept of Army, 20 cc=plete sete of all regulations, ordinances, et
cetera covering export phase of trade controls have been airnailed
to Washington for distribution to interested agencies Additional
copies being tranamitted by this flission to, ether with despatch sum-
marizing these enectments und giving mucih needed interpretation
7 Application f lountree Steamshap ines ESs Foreign Invest-
ment Board under date lov 21 referred to this Hission for comment ap-
plication by Rountree Steamship Lines ew York, to engage in bisiness
and investment activity in Japan involving creation of  apanese cor-
poration to procure ent operate ocean shippins under Japanese or SCAJA?
flag wath Japanes: craws Proposal envi sages creation of Japanese con-
cern to be called International Steanship Lines, with 60 per cent of
capital held by tountree, remainder by Japanese, International Steam-
ship would charter fleet of 500, 000 tons to ply between Japan and U S
Proposal also asks for guarantee from Japanese Govt of ability o con-
vert yen intc doliars at rave of 16 000 000 per year, to cover amorti.
zation of vessels und overseas expenditures, for perio: of 15 years
In its response to FiD, thia Hission, as Liplomatic Section o' GHe,
SCAP, under date of Nov 29 made following observatlons; (1) 1 Japan
were unable to meet its own ship, ing recuirements for 1s years, this
proposal might merit consideration Hovever, Japan normally suoplied
not only ita maritime neods bu. so developed this econonic act vity
that it became iaportant as a source of invisible foreign receints.
Currently and in the immediate future Japan faces continued and severe
deficits in its balance of payments I must, therefore, guarantee cor-
vertibility only as to such goods and services as it cannot itself supoly.
Shipping does not fall into thin category accordingly, Ds does not
believe that the present propoeal, which calls for an exchange guarantee
of (16 000,000 annually for 15 years should receive favorable con-
sideration; (2) establishent by (enerel leadquarters of this olan
whereby an American steamshtip company establi shes and controls a Japa
nee shipping company would undoubtedly have nfavorable repercussions.
not only in Japan but al so in she United States. In Japan, anti-American
propagandists would very likely be quich to seize upon this plan as
typical of s-cclled Anerican imperiali  ic and capitalistic operations
n the United States it appears fairly certain that American Iibor
CONFIDLNTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's A-347,
December8, 1949.
~4-
interests would make strenuous protest on the ground that an Ameriean
shipping companywas tryingto evade United Stateslabor standards
lawa. On the other hand, while most foreign shipping companies, in-
cluding well-established American concerns, are probably reconciled
to eventual return of Japanese merchant shipping to the high seas, it
seens certain they would not like to have one of their number operating
an controlling a Japanese subsidiary concern, and taking over all the
competitive advantagewhich a Japanese shipping company might be ex-
pected to have; (3) for the reasons stated above, DS recommends that
the application of the Rountree Steanship Lines be rejected." Press
report on this pubject published Dec. 7byNipoon fimes concluded ith
following paragraph: "Transportation Ministry cireles, however, be-
lieve that the plan will not be realized in view of the progress being
made in the fifth ShipouiIding Progran and the remodelling of wartime
reesel3"
8 Possible Trade Arrangement between Denaark and Japan. An out-
come of recent unofficial Denmark-Japan trade encouragement conferences
and public statements on "projected barter plan" by Mr. Tage NIELSEN,
director of Danieh Merchants and Industries Trading Association and
presently in Japan, has been a series of exploratory conferences be-
tween Danish Diplomatic Mission andESs officials on formulation of
Dennark-Japan trade arrangement Danish Mi ssion representative, in-
formed by Ess that barter plan of type publicized by Mr Nielsen cannot
be considered, has stated informally to officer of USPOLAD that he now
awaits instructions from Copenhagen to proceed with trade arrangement
discussions Ess officials interested in development of trade with
Denmark which country reportedly seeking imports ofJapanese textiles,
machinery parts, optical instruments and porcelain.
9 ESS Still Considering Acqui sition of Kailan Coking Coal.
According to statements made Dec 6 to officer of this Mission by Mr.
W. S. VAUGHaN, ESs industrial adviser,ESS has not definitely rejected
offer made two months ago by Mr. Wilfred PRYOR, general manager of
Kailan Mining Administration, Tientsin, for supoly of moderate amount
of Kailan coking coal to Japan, sale tb be made in sterling (see item 1,
A-267, Oct. 14, 1949). Mr. Vaughan said that EsS was sympathetic and
night still authorize purchase by Japan of l00, 000 tone. He added that
question of future use by Japan of Kailan coal was dependent upon price
as opposed to local coal; he indicated also that "coalite" process in
use by Wanishi works of Japan Iron and Steel Company might not prove
financially advantageous were Japan in position to acquire large amounts
of Kailan coal at reasonable price.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo'= A-347,
December 8, 194
-5-
10 txchange Rato for Hyukyus SCAP mission to Okinaw to
examine exchange rate problem, wage levels, domestic and import pric-
ing procedures has returned to Tokyo and is now preparing recommen-
dations for Commanding eneral. Ryukyus Command. There now exdst
such wiur-spread distortions betwoun wages, prices of imports and
domestically-produced goods that any single exchange rate appears
impractical. Morecrer, sharply expanded U.s construction program
utilizing Laports frow Japan, Us and other foreign areas, as well as
indicenous lator and daterlals. will ngravate already serious econo-
mic problems uniens positive action is tasen to stabilise wage and
price levels and estaulialh an effective rate of exchange. Present
rate of .. u equal to 1.  in no degree reflects relative currency
values siw preliminary view of SCap mission is that rate of perhaps
120 yen to dollar would be apuropriate This rate applled to GAtIoA
isports, howover, would require yen payments regarded as beyond cape-
city of yukyus to pay Mission is therefore considering aither 
890.
multipl: rate systeu or one rate with provision for subaidy paymonts
Thert is general agreement that current military rate of conversion
is obsolute and buruensome, and should be abandoned Misaion aember
consider it essential to achieve stability as rapidly as possible to
that contractors may bid on a competitive basis with sone degree of
csrtainty as to thcir costs
SLBALD
500
CHBoehrinker
w.Diolhl
100
bwAdams
sGSeidensticker )
CONPIULNTIAL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.90)
Department af State
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
A-239, Dec. 20, 1949
ith reference to .artgraph 10 of your A-347/of
the
Jecember 8, 1949,/De. artment would like to see a copy of
the reconinondations of the SCAP misslon to Okinawa if it
Is possible for you to obtain one.
894.50/12-849
0
ACHLSON
la
56
11
FE:NA/E:NHermendinger/mjP
12-19-49
uot
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
S
CONFIDE.TIAL
H
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on at
cosies bofere delivery to Airgram Section, Tologreph Braach.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
NCOMING AIRGRAM
EPARTMENT OF STATEDIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCN
POLICY
2
A
1949DC 27 AM 10 57
AIRGRAM
2515
ACTION: ITP
INFO
MESSAUUCHTER BP
DCR
ed to
L
Acti
action
EUR
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
etion Taken
FE
DCL
CONFIDENTIAL
Dato of
mailing:
Docomber 16, 1949.
Dec. 22, 1949 8:03 a.m.
DOA
file
894.50/12-1449
ERENT
XR
Washington.
840.60
Reference Department's airgran no. A-209, Novomber 17, 1949,
and paragreph 4, this Hission'a airgram no. A-333 of Docember 2.
Latter informed Department that Ecenomic and Sciensific Section
(ESS), GHQ, SCAP, definitely assured Mission shat no evidenco
exists poinsiag to cartel or other agresmont between Japanese
BP
and Europoan producers on division of markets for non-ferrous
metals,
I
I.
Eos has attempted unsuccessfully to secure for Mission tan-
CP
giblo proof that Japaneso preducers have made offers on European
ER
market. Unable to secure documentary evidence, Ess still main-
BP
tains that Eurepeans and Japaneso are definitely competitive in
PED
non-ferrous mesals and that lack of Japanese sales in Europe
stems only frem rejoction of offers due to low quality uncompon-
eated by lower prices. Ess feels that apparent limitation to
Asiatic markets is not dus to any division of markets agreement
but rather te acceptance of Japanese non-ferrous expers itoms
by buyers net insistent on high quality, unlike European coneu-
XR
5017
mers, and interested primarily in Japamese quetations at about 20 per
894
949
cens under world prices.
SEBALD
640
DEC 30 1949
FILED
HH
PERMANENTRECoRO COPY?—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
RWAdams;keb

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
NH
INÇOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OP STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OSTERN AFAIHS
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS49
2
AIRGHAM DEC 2 P1949 of Stae
A
ACTION: DSE
of Action -2-22-49
INFO
EPARTMEN! OF STATE
Action Office Symbol
DCR
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
L
Name
EURX
Date of
EUR
Direction to DC/R
mailing:
: December 17, 1949.
E
DCL
Rec'd: Dec. 22, 1949 8:03 a.m.
ITP
OFD
FOR DEPARTHINT USE ONLY
TRC
OLI
Secretary of State,
P
POS
Washington.
894.50/12-1749
A-375. Decamber 17, 1949.
(This eirgram supplements this Hission's
A-347, December 8, 1949, and earlier air-
graas in this series. Request distribu-
tion be limited to Department for reasons
stated in A-21 of January 28, 1949.)
35
FR
1 Payment of Bonus to Government LEmployees. Finance Minister
Hayato IkEDA, in an informal and confidential conversation with an
12
officer of this Mission on Dec 15, stated that he was standing firmly
but alone in opposition to wage concessions which would require a
"reworking" of the national budget. It may be noted that two groups,
namely, the railway workers and Govt amployees, have received official
encouragement in their efforts to obtain increased compensation. Recom-
mendation of Public Enterprise Arbitration board for substantial wage
increases for railway workers has been passed on to Diet by the Cabinet.
Latter also in almost complete agreement, according Ikeda, that wage
increaso for Govt employees is advisable. Ikede feels that he is in
strong position to fight any general wage increase in view of publio
statements made byFinancial Adviser Joseph M. DODGE. However, Ikeda
stated that SCAP had assured 'rime Minister YOSHIDA that there would be
no opposition to wage adjustments within the confines of a balanced
budget. With this leeway, Ikeda feels that it will be impossible tq
resist the granting of certain wage bonuses, notably a year-end payment
of Yen 1, 000 to Govt amployees.
2. Status of Application of Rountree Steamship Lines. Refererte
0
made to iten (7), A-347, Dec. 8, concerning application of Rountree
FILED
DECLASSIFIED
Steamship Lines, New York City, to engage in business and investment
cure and operate ocean shipping under Japanese or SCAJAP flag with 
0 11652. Sec. 3(E) und 5(0) or (0)
nese crewe. Under date of Dec. 6. General Headquarters sent letter 
PERMANENT RECORD COPY. This copy must be retomed to DC/R centrabfifes with notation of action takenortions

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
A-375, Tokyo,
December 17, 1949.
-2
of which given herewith: "Inasmuch as the proposed investment may
reasonably be expected to extend beyond the tenure of the Supreme Com-
mander for the Allied Powers, no assurances can be given by this Head-
quarters beyond such tenure. Validation will be accorded to the pro-
posed inveatment provided: (2) formal application is filed wdth and
validated by the Japanese Govt; (b) the investment complies with
foreign investment regulations presently contained in Circular 2, GHQ,
SCAP, 1 Jan 1949, and minimum standards issued in conformance there-
with; (c) the investment and business activity complies with and is
conducted pursuant to the regulations of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powere and Japanese laws, including, but not limited to, Anti-
Monopoly, orporation, and Fair Trade Laws; (d) requisite authority
is pbtained from the united States Govt to engage in the business acti-
vity dthir Japan; and (e) remittances of foreign exchange are obtained
in conforma co with the foreign exchange control regulations of the
Japanese lovt subject to and dependent upon future events, no objec-
tion :s perceived to the em loyment of Japanese personnel for service
beyond the verritorial limits of Japan provided prior permission for
the entry of Japanese nitionals is secured from the countries where such
vesrele will visit lhe employer will be required to establish and main-
tain adequate safeguards for the welfare of the Japanese employees. You
will be perritted to engage in the business activity on a non-discrimina-
tory basis with Japanese ship ing enterprises. Use of the Japanese flag
is not pormitted on the high seas at this time and probably will not be
authorized unt l after the peace treaty. In the interim you may apply
to use the CAJAP flag pursuant to regulations prescribed by Headquarters,
Supreme Com:ander for the Allied Powers " Most significant feature of
forogoing lotter appears to be condition for validation stating that e-
mittances of foreign exchange be obtained in conformance with foreign
exchange control regulations of Japanese Govt;this serves to reject
proposal made by Rountree Steanship Lines for guarantee from Japanese
Govt of ability to convert yen into dollars at rate of .16,000, 000 per
year.
3. Chase Bank Asked tc Send Luxpert to Ryukyus. Re item (10), A-347,
Dec, 8, on exchange rate for Ryukyus. As result recent discussions here
between Under Secretary of Army VOORHENS and Mr Villiam DRAPER, former
Under Socretary of Army, latter sent personal telegram to chairman of
Chase National Benk, asking whether that Bank'sMr. l'cKITrRIck might be
made available for detail of not over 6c days to work on fiscal and cur-
rency problem Ln Ryukyus It was added that ir Voorhees would be pre-
pared to discuss this matter personally with chairmen of Chase Bank fol-
lowing his ret rn to Washin ton on about Dec 13.
CONFIDLNTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's A-375,
December 17, 1949.
=3
4. Efforts to Reduce Import-Export Stockpiles. Rconomic and
Scientific Section (Ess) now working actively with Ministry of Interna-
tional Trade and Industry (MITI) on plans to release for sale on domes-
tic market accumulated Govt-purchased import items, especially indus-
trial raw materials, long held in stockpiles (see this Mission's A-282,
Oct. 27, item 3). EsS believes that import stockpile can be disposed
of successfully to local consuners if items are sold at prices no higher
then future CIF quotations under projected free import plan scheduled
to go into effect Jan. 1, 1950. Since many import items originally pur-
chased at higher prices, however, Govt inventory losses will result.
Ctockpiles of certain export items, also source of concern to ESs, have
now been released from inventories for local sale, and increased indivi-
dual ration is planned by Japanese Govt, especially for textiles, to per-
uit absorption of stockpiled exports by Japaneso consumers.
5. Army Post lxchange Goods to be Released on Local Market. Ess
has released press statement indicating that negotiations are now in pro-
grese with MITI for release of "slow-moving" goods presently on inventory
of Army Post Exchange for use in "incentive goods program" of Japanese
Govt Said to be valued at 3, 0o0, 000, PX goods to be diverted to Japa-
nese market include such items as large-sized shoes, 100, 00 money belte,
cutdated photographic paper, cookies and perfwne. MITI officials admitted
discuesions were under way but that careful inspection of goods was de-
sired by Japanese authorities. In opinion of this Mission, seems ques-
tionable whether Japanese will agree to take over many of these PX sup-
plies since their economic rehabilitation value appears doubtful.
6. Spain-Japan Trade Discussions. Preliminary discussions have
recently been held between ESS officials and Spanish Diplomatie Repre-
sentative on possible one-year trade agreement between Spain and Japan,
with indications that Spanish Govt, which took initiative in opening
di scussions, would favor open or "swing" account arrangement. Ess in-
formed Spanish Liplomatic Representative, who now awaits further instrue-
tions from hadrid, that greatest interest hers lies in imports of potash,
salt, cork, and olive oil, and has requested indication from Spain as
to availability of these products and interest in specifio Japanese ex-
port items. Prewar trade pattern between Japan and Spain was of about
1,000, 000 annually on each side, compared with 1948 1mportation of
about $2, 500, 000 ofpotash from Spain under U.S aid program.
7. Japan-Netherlands Agreement Still Pending Present draft of
Netherlands-Japan Trade Agreement contains statement that trade will be
conducted in accordance with GATT principles (REDEPTEL 620 ofDec. 1).
EsS officials believe Dutch may be reluctant to accept provision for
blanket clearance and non-discriminatory treatment of Japanese merchant
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo|a A-375,
December 17, 1949.
-4-
vessels. Conferences between ESS and Netherland representatives have
been suspended. pending recsipt of further communications presently ex-
pected from The Hague and Batavia. ESS somewhat pessimistic regarding
early resumption of conferences, believing that present political pro-
blems militate against speedy coordination between The Hague and Indonesia
on trade matters.
8. Other Foreign Trade Notes. (a) Conferences between Swedish
Diplomatic Representative and ESS Foreign Trade and Commerce officials
on Sweden-Japan Trade Plan for 1950 will be resumed late Dec. or early
Jan, present 12-month Trade Understanding of Nov. 2, 1948, being ex-
tended at Sweden's request until 1950 Plan formalized. While ESS of-
ficials state that present "back-to-back letter of credit" system be-
tween Sweden and Japan has operated much better than first expected,
they now believe that 1950 Plan may be based on less cuabersome system,
probably modified open account with low level "swing" ceiling. (b) Not
yet officially released by Ess is outcome of negotiations in Bangkok
bet ween Thai Govt and SCAP Mission headed by Mr. Frank E. PICKELLE, Chief,
EsS Foreign Trade and Commerce Division, on Thai-Japan Trade Agreement
(see item 9, A-323, Nov. 26). Local press, however, has publicized
"finalization" in Bangkok of Trade Agreement involving total exchange of
90,000, 000 worth of goods, balanced at 45, 000, 000 each way, principally
150, 000 tons of rico, as well as mineral ores, rubber and lacquer for
Japan; latter will export principally manufactured goods to Japan.
(c) Notwithstanding recent announcement by P.I. lovt that annual imports
would be reduced by 200, 000,000, wdth luxury and non-essential goods,
including textiles, to be cut to minimum, ESs has been approached by
Philippine business man presently in Japan who asserts he is authorized
to explore possibilities for Japan-PI trade arrangement. Individual is
Mr. Jesus CABARRUS, reportedly president of Samar Hining Co.,Karinduque
Iron Hines, and Philippine Chamber of Hines, who has informed EsS trade
officials that he was instructed by P.I. Finance Minister to discuss
trade plans with SCAP, ESS, interested in formalizing trade agreement
with P.I., has requested Amembassy, Manila, to supply info on Cabarrus
prior to opening discussions with him. (d) ESS has extended invitation
to Israel Trade and Communications Mission, presently in Manila, for
trade conference in Tokyo. ESs feels, however, that in order to avoid
arousing Arab susceptibilities, Israel-Japan trade agreement should not
be formalized until April or May, 1950, when SCAP trade mission expected
to tour Near East.
SEBALD
500
CHBoehringer)
WWDieh1
)lee
RWAdams
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.92)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
SECRET
FAR 重ASTEAN-APFAIRS
DEC011040
To : FE - Mr. Butterybrth
ATB:December 21.1949
DetRlem
SUBJECT:
Japanese Economic Review and NA Economic Summary for
November, 1949.
"Monlhly Econ. Summane
As stated in my memo to you of December 21, NA has been pre-
paring a monthly economic review as well as a monthly political
review. There are attached hereto two documents: (1) a summary
of the work on Japanese economic matters carried out during the
month of November; and (2) a review of the Japanese economic
situation as of November 30. Both of theee papere have a one-page
summary attached so that, unlese you particularly wish, it will
not be necessary for you to read the whole document in elther oase
C/R
68
JUL 1 5 1952
FE:NA:JMAll1son/pm
FILED
S
SECRET
X 100182
工

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
NA ECONOLIC SULMARY FOR NOVEMBER, 1949
JAPAN
Brief Summary
GARIOA FY 195l appropriation. NAC working group inclined to reduce
300 million Army request by $150 - 200 million. Army requested
consideration by NAC Staff Committee be postponed until Mr. Voorhees'
return fron Japan on December 12.
Abolition of floor prices. Department has answered complaints from
British and Dutch Embassies and U.S. businessmen, pointing out that
abolition of floor prices does not imply dumping by Japanese.
Fair Trade Practices. Letter sent to Army, for attention of scAP,
pointing out desirability of impressing Japanese Government with
undesirability of export control associations. General statement on
restrictive practices included in State Department press statement.
Japanese trade agreements. Efforts made to be sure MFN provision
and provision for acceptance Japanese shipping be included in Thai
and Netherlands agreements.
Technical Assistance. Letter to Army pointed out desirability of
liberalizing SCAP's policy on travel of technicians abroad.
Restitution and property matters. Problems of looted gold and
restituted property paid for by earmarked gold worked out with SCAP,
17
removing all obstacles to delivery to Thailand and France. Application
1
of gold restitutable to China to chinese trade deficit under considera-
tion in FE. Recommendation made to SCAP on program for restitution of
diamonds. Conference held with British and Lutch to settle compensation
1.1
for restitutable commodities exported to U.S. Liquidation of German
assets in Japan under agreed principles to commence soon. Korean claims
a
for ships in Japan pursuant Korean vesting dearee still unresolved.
Possibility rohabilitation of Italian S.S. Conte Verde raised informally
with POLAD.
Petroleun Imports for Sterling. Reply made to Senator Downey
pointing out necessity to maximize SCAP's imports for sterling.
IBRD Mission to Far East. Possibility use IBRD loans to countries
in Southeast Asia for purchases in Japan discussed with Bank's mission
to Far East, and visit to Japan suggested.
U.S. Commercial Conference Tokyo. A conference of U.S. Far East
economic reporting officers is being planned for April in Tokyo.
SECRET
FE:lA:Nllemmendinger:1k
12/14/49

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
December 13, 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Economic Summary for November, 1949
JAPAN
1. Peace Treaty: (See political summary).
Fw
Revisions have been made in collaboration with the Legal Division
of many of the Economic Sections of the draft treaty, in particular
Article 39, Annex VII and Article 41, Annex VIII.
2. GARIOA Appropriation for Fiscal Year 1951.
At the request of the Department of the Army, the Department of
State recuested the National Advisory Council to review the Department
of the Army's appropriation request for Japan for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1951. Analysis by an NAC working group on which the
Department was represented indicated that the requested appropriation
might be excessive by as much as $150 million to $200 million if
2
consumption levels established in the Army Department's basic program of
January 1949 (the so-called Blue Book) were to be strictly adhered to.
Questionable items included (a) the so-called investment guarantee fund
for which $25 million is provided in addition to the $25 million already
set aside during the current fiscal yeer; (b) the food grain reserve
established in the current fiscal year at a cost of approximately
$65 million; (c) the projected increase in cotton textile consumption
to 4.21 pounds per capita as compared with the current level of 3.5
pounds; (d) the increase in raw cotton inventories to what appears to be
a 5-months' supply in terms of mill requirements from the current 3-months'
supply.
After the releese of the NAC working group paper the Department of
the Army solicited the State Department's unquelified support in the NAC
of the 3o0 million figure. The Army Department representative was
informed that the Departnent was predisposed to give every possible support
to the Army Department's appropriation request, but that the responsibility
for furnishing detailed justification rested on the Army Department.
Before the matter came to the NAC Staff Committee, Mr. Voorhees recuested
Mr. Snyder to postpone consideretion until the former's return from Japan
on December 12.
3. Abolition of Floor Prices:
Officers of the British and Dutch Embassies called at the Department
to express the perturbation of their Governments at the abolition of
floor
SECRET

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
floor prices; reports of inquiries made in the House of Commons (U.k.)
were also received, and a number of businessmen called at the Department
or wrote letters in this regard. The general tenor of these erpressions
was that Japan was guilty of dumping, and without some type of controls
the Japanese would revert to former practices. "Social" dumping also was
charged, and "cheap" labor in the tertile industry was almost always noted
in this connection.
In reply to these comments, it was pointed out that (1) labor cost
is not the only cost of production, and even low wage rates do not ensure
low labor costs; (2) the establishment of a free labor movement has
tended to remove exploitative labor elements; (3) businesamen tend to fear
competition unduly, and when most allegations of unduly low prices made
by our own businessmen have been investigated they have almost invariably
been found to be unwarranted; (4) there will continue to be surveillance
of prices in Japan in the form of a "post audit" based on the general
principle that export prices should not be less than comparable prices
for like products offered in Japan, and that for items produced solely
for export not less than cost to the manufacturer plus an addition for
handling charges and a reasonable profit; (5) the best method of assuring
fair pricing is to preserve compeitition in export markets; (6) the
Supreme Commander is, of course, desirous of maximizing receipts of
foreign exchange and has no desire to see unduly low export prices, and
(7) there will undoubtedly be some industries which can compete abroad
on a sound econoric basis, and since Japan cannot become a politically
and economically stable and self-supporting country without a restoration
of this type of trade, it is in the interest of all countries that it be
pronoted.
4. Fair Trade Practices:
The status of the progrem for democratization of industry in Japan
was discussed at length by various officers of the Department with Dr. Welsh,
Chief of the Fair Trade Practices Division, ESS, GH, SCAP.
By reeson of repeated reports from Japan that the Japanese were
determined to revive export control associations, a letter was sent to the
Department of the Army, to be brought to the attention of SCAP, urging that
the Japanese Governaent be impressed with the strength of this Government's
opposition to restrictive trede practices and stressing the detrimental
effects which restrictive practices can have on the receptiveness of
other countries to Japanese trade and traders.
The following paragraph was included in a statement given to the
press by the Department primarily on the subject of European cartels:
"In Japan, where economic recovery is also of major importance,
it is cleerly our policy to eliminate, and prevent the reestablish-
ment of restrictive practices and the monopolistic combines with
which
SECRET

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-3-
which you are familiar. Competition, spur to efficiency, is
the catalyst of economic recovery there as in Burope."
A reply to Soviet inquiries in the Far Eastern Commission on the
deconcentration program was submitted on the basis of a cable from SCAP
and details supplied by Dr. Welsh, without awaiting a detailed letter
being prepared by SCAP. The reason for not waiting for the letter was
that the Soviet inquiries were already almost two months old, and it
was believed that if a reply was not made quickly it would not be possible
to state that no shares transferred to the Holding Company Liquidation
Commission had been purchased by foreigners.
5. Japanese Trade Agreements:
Messages were sent to Tokyo end Bangkok urging that the trade agree-
ments being negotiated with Theiland and with the Netherlands include
provisions for reciprocal MFN treatment and for the acceptance of Japanese
ships in the ports of the countries concerned, similar to the provisions
of the Korean Trade Agreement.
6. Technical Assistance:
A letter was sent to the Department of the Army commenting upon the
SCAP directive governing the travel of Japanese technicians abroad, and
suggesting that provisions governing such travel be liberalized further.
In particular, it was suggested that restrictions on travel on the ground
that it may contribute to the development of competing industries abroad
are inconsistent with U.S. foreign economic policy; that limitations in
contracts of employment providing that technicians may work only on
equipment made in their country should not be prescribed; that the
recuirement for payment in acceptable currencies should be liberally
construed; that prescription of detailed conditions of labor may be
unnecessary; and that the approval of the country of destination be
obtained through normal visa procedures.
7. Thai and French Earmarked Gold:
The Department concurred in ScAp's proposal to release the gold
earmarked for Thailand and France pursuant to the U.S. directive with
minor deductions for gold determined to have been looted. With respect
to the provision for the deduction of the value of any property
restituted to France which had been paid for by the earmarking of gold,
the Department concurred in the application by SCAP of a presumption that
the commodity restituted was brought in after the earmarking provided
there is some factual basis for such presumption.
8. Gold Restitutable to China:
The Department has under study SCAP's proposal that gold restitutable
to China be applied to the default in the Chinese trade account or
retained as security for payment of the trade balance. Although sympathetic
to SCAp's objective, the Department is inclined to the view that the
legality
SEC RET

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-4-
legality of a unilateral application of the gold to the trade account
is too doubtful, and that retention of the gold would lead to an indefinite
stalemate.
9. Restitution of Diamonds:
SCAP's proposals for the restitution of diamonds of doubtful owner-
ship were generally approved, vith the following qualifications - that
the matter be fully discussed with the Netherlands Mission before submission
to the Restitution Advisory Committee; that the several alternative
methods of distribution on a percentage basis be submitted to the RAC
without a commitment by SCAP to the support of any particular one; and
that SCAP treat the dianonds as unidentified loot if a unanimous (or
nearly unanimous including the U.K., the Netherlands and Frence) recommen-
dation by the RAc is not made. The Department considered that strictly
speaking the diamonds are unidentified loot, and that the question of
distribution is therefore beyond SCAP's competence under the FEC directive.
It was appreciated, however, that there may be advantages to treating
them as identified loot, if RAC agreement can be obtained, both from the
point of view of GHR, SCAP, which desires an expeditious decision, and
fron the point of view of the principal claimants, who may have more
difficulty getting an equitable decision under the procedures established
for the distribution of the proceeds of unidentified loot. The Comittee
of the seven interested FEC delegations which is now considering the
latter cuestion in Washington is bogged down by the insistence of a number
of delegutions, particularly the Chinese, on principles for distribution
which appear to involve political considerations and considerations of
prestige.
10. Compensation for Looted Property:
Intensive study has been given in collaboration with the Department
of the Ammy and the RFC to the problem of compensation to the British,
Dutch and French for looted tin, rubber, and lead, which was exported
by SCAP to the U.S. Conference has been held with the British and Dutch
in an endeavor to gain their acceptance of proposals, including the
reduction of comissions and certain other adjustnents, which have been
approved by SCAP, and a detailed written statenent is being prepared for
them.
11. German Asseta in Japan:
The British and French have replied officially to the U.S. request
that they approve proposed principles for the licuidation of German assets
in Japan. The French concurred; the British made a number of suggestions
for amendments. An infonnal agreement was made with the British that
SCAP would be requested to proceed to put the principles into effect and
be informed of the proposed amendments while they are considering further.
ScAP's reply to this suggestion is presently awaited. In the meantime,
a draft of the proposed amendments has been prepared and will be sent to
ScAP for comment soon.
12. Korean
S E C R E T

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-5-
12. Korean Claims for Ships under Korean Vesting Decree:
No formal reply has been received by the Departaent to its proposal
to the Korean Embassy, which was approved by SCaP, that the controveray
on this subject be settled by the application of a presumption that ships
of Korean registry were in Korean waters on August 9, 1945, and that
without prejudice to the eventual rights of the parties no action be taken
by SCAP on further Korean claims. The Korean Ambassador has indicated
informally that the proposal is unacceptable and that Korea stands on its
claim for all ships, whether of Korean or Japanese registry that were in
Korean waters on August 9, l945. He has protested a statement reported
to have been made by GHn, SCAP that this principle is no longer in effeot.
13. FEC Decisions on Reparations and Level of Industry:
It has been decided that no formal proposals will be made in the FEC
to tring its previous decisions into line with the U.S. statement of May 12,
l949. Any limitations on Japanese industries such as shipbuilding and
aircraft manufacture considered necessary on security grounds will be
taken up with the interested governments in connection with the treaty of
peace.
14. Imports of Petroleum into Japan.
A reply was made to a letter from Senator Downey based on a complaint
from the American Petroleum Export Company. The Department's reply explained
the need of maximum purchases by Japen for sterling.
A Standard Oil official incuired whether the Japan-Sterling Area trade
arrangement would result, as reported from London, in eliminating American
companies from supplying oil to Japan for sterling. The Department does
not yet have clear information on this point.
15. IBRD Mission to the Far East.
Representatives of the Department have discussed with officers of the
IBRD comprising the Bank's mission to the Far East, the Department's
interest in the possible use of IBRD loan funds (along with other sources
of outside financial assistance) to stimulate expanded production of raw
materials and foodstuffs needed by Japan. The Department also suggested
that some of the members of the mission might usefully visit Tokyo for the
purpose of discussing with SCAP officiels the availabilities in Japan
(a) of equipment needed in connection with any of the projects which the
bank might be interested in financing and (b) of other manufactured goods
for purchase by the borrowing countries in exchange for their expanded
output of foodstuffs and raw materials. In this connection the Bank
indicated that expenditure of loan proceeds in Japan in dollars would
probably present no difficulties and inquired about the possible extension
by Japan of short-term and intermediate-term export credits in conjunction
with possible IBRD loans.
16. Repair
SECRET

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-6-
16. Repair of S.S. Conte Verde.
The Italian Embassy has continued to press the Italian case for repair
of the S.S. Conte Verde to put into condition to move under its owm power,
instead of condition for overseas tow, at the expense of the Japanese
Government. The Department has informally asked USPOLAD whether there is
any use raising the question again with GHR, SCAP.
17. Proposed Conference of US Economic Reporting Officers Stationed
in the Far East.
The Department of Commerce has proposed that a sir-day conference of
Far East reporting officers be held in Tokyo in April. The Department is
in agreament that this is desirable and State and Commerce are now preparing
an agenda. It 1s State's belief that the conference should devote itself
largely to a discussion of sound measures for the promotion of-intra-
regional trade.
10
FE:NA/E:NHemmendinger:lk
FE:NA/E:CTWhite
12/14/49
SECRET

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-7-
THE RYUKYUS
At the instance of the Department of State the Department of the
Army has sent a proposed new directive for the Ryukyus to CINCFk for
comment (WAR 97286, December 3, 1949). The directive is substantially
as originally drafted in the Department of State and is based in large
part on recommendations in the Oliver report.
The Departaent is discussing with the Department of the Army the
recruiting of abler personnel (including the possibility of appointing
a civilian as head of the civil administration), the scope of pay-as-you-
go, and the establishment of a coordinated economic and fiscal plan.
wit
FE:NA/E:NHemmendinger:lk
12/14/49
SECRET

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATERTHDNISIUNOF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
JAN-31950
2
BA
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
AIRGRAM
3264
ACTION: FE
NA
INFO
Act:
DCR
no antin
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
NEA
E
CONFIDENTIAL
Date of
DCL
mailing:
Decaaber 24, 1949.
1/4/50
ITP
OFD
Rec'd:
Dec. 28, 1949.5:01 p.m.
TRC
OLI
FOR DEPAUTAHT USE ONLY
P
Nunc
1949
894.50/12-2449
Washington.
A-387, December 23, 1949.
(This airgran supplements this Mission's
A-375, Decenber 17, 1949, end earlier air-
grams in this series. Request distribu-
tion be limited to Department for reasons
L/ SFICE
stated in A-21 of January 28, 1949.)
J4117 1950
DPAEE
DC/L
1. Payment of Year-Ind Bonus to Government Imployees. Referance
made to item (1), A-375, Dec. 17, on this subject. Fortified with e
SCAP memo specifically author zing payment of provisional year-end bonis
to Japanese Covt enployeea, Prime Minister Shigeru YOSHIDA promptly ar
nounced that a bonuspaymentof Yen 5, 382, 000, 000 to 1, 783, 937nation1
govt employees would be made. Legislative bills for necessary Diet ap
proval vere submitted to that body on Dec 19. Above cited SCAP mem.,
which was dated Dec. 18, stated that investigation by GilQ, SCAP, ini-
cated that bonus payment would not unbalance budget and: was not in viola-
tion of Nine-Point Economic Stabilization Program. It is notable Ihat
Japanese Finance Division, Lconomic and Scientific Section (Ess), pposed
bonus payment and regards Japanese Govt insistence on this issue us a
breach of confidonce. As recently as one month age Govt refused to budget
such a payment, stating that precedent had been established in 1948 for
abandonment of this practice and that hence bonus would not be paid.
Funds for payment of bonus will be garnered from wide variety of sources;
for example, funds will be realized by reduction in maintenance vnd equip-
ment charges and by further reductions in personnel. Interestin; to note
that this issue was settled on political rather than economic grounds,
the real improvement in standard of living being generally admitted.In-
dividual paylaents wdll range from 2, 600 to5, 000 yen and will averar
3,O17 yen, an amount about 700 yen lower than that stipulated by l.he
Public Enterprise rbitration Board (PEAB). Dr. Itsutaro SUiIRO, ixm
of PEAB, pronptly attacked Cabinet decision as a violation of National Pu
lic Service aw in that Cabinet fixed a wage payment when it had nocuth-
Leaders of National lailway Workers Union announcet that
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's A-387,
December 23, 1949.
2
bonus was unsatisfactory and that recently launched hunger strike by
members of that Union would be continued.
2. Disposal of Looted Gold Sought by CPC. Office of Civil Property
Custodian (CPC), General Headquartera, has raised with officer of this
Mission question of disposal of unidentified looted gold and silver now
held by CPC. Involved are 21,313.8 grams of gold, nine-tenths fine;
2,198,066. 8 grams of silver, and bars of mixed gold and silver contain-
ing 784,429.3 grams of old and 7,188,667.4 grams of silver. CPC offi-
cial indicated CPC would like to liquidate these precious metals without
further delay in manner acceptable to United States Govt as well as to
other members of Far astern Comaission but is hesitant to have issue
raised in Fec for fear of prolonged wrangling and probable ultimate
indecision.
3. ESS Official Suspended Because of Press Statement. Reference
made to item (5), A-375, Dec. 17, regarding proposed release by Army
Post xchange of goods to Japanese market. Issuance by EsS of press
statement cited considered by higher echelons of General Headquarters to
have been needlessly critical of proposed PX action. As a result, Major
General .F. KuQUAT, Chief, ES, obliged indefinitely to suspend Mr.
M. H. HALFF, ESS Control Officer, who issued statement. Responsible ESS
officials have indicated to officers of this Mission that they are alto-
gether sympathetic as regards Halff's action, and that proposed PX deal
cannot be considered to be in best interests of Japanese economy. They also
stated that PX probably more concerned with removal of undesired items from
its inventory than in making worth while contribution to Japan's economic
rehabilitation..
4. SCAP Ship Chartering Office in New York. At weekly ESS staff
meeting on Dec. 19, General Harquat referred to recent opening of SCap ship
chartering office in New York, with Mr. R. L. VrkrOFF, representative of
Civil Transportation Section, General Headquarters, in charge. Discussion
brought out fact this action approved in ESS by Mr. P. M. McDERMOTT, Direc-
tor for Trade and Comnerce, and subsequently by Chief of Staff. General
Marquat indicated that he had personally not been consulted in regard to
this matter; that he failed to see why SCAP had to have an office in U.S.
for this purpose, especially since foreign shipping firms have been licensed
by SCAP to do business here; and that he intended to have matter reopened
for further discussion in GeneralHeadquarters.
5. ECA Plans to Open ''rocurement Office in Tokyo. At same meeting,
Ceneral Marquat stated that Dr. Arthur BUNCE, Chief, ECA Korean Mission,
ad recently discussed with him question of opening procurement office
Tokyo. General Marquat stated that ESs was willing to give CA officials
office space in LS3 Foreign Trade and Conmerce Division in order to ex-
pedite sale of Japanese products for ECA account.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's A-387,
December 23, 1949
“3
6 Export Basaar to be Opened in Okinawa. EsS now planning to send
several representatives to Okinawa to open export bazaar there. Mr. Halff
(see item 3) originally alated to make trip, accompanied by rs. Dorothy
EDGiS, formerly in ESS Textile Division and now in Foreign Trade and Com-
merce Division Not known at present who will be picked to replace Halff.
7. Anglo-American Textile Mission to Japan. Reference made Deptel
no. 652, Dec 14, regarding projected visit to Japan of Joint Anglo-American
Mission sponsored by British Textile Institute and American Cotton Manu-
facturers Institute. Dept. of Army, by telegram to GHQ dated Doc. 17,
stated that Deptel had been sent to Tokyo "through misunderstanding" and
that it had not been properly cleared in Dept of Army. Opposition to plan
of having llission visit Japan was voiced by Dept of Army, although views
of General eadquarters were requested. At Ess staff meeting on Dec. 19,
General "arquat stated that he saw no reason why Mission should not come
to Japan and that he intended to make response accordingly to Dept of Army.
3. Private Import Regulations mearing Completion. ESS officials
state that studies and dr ft regulations for private import syatem will
be completed by Dec 22. Although list of commodities requiring allocation
(see item 5, A-347, Dec. 8) not yet completed, ESs believes final regula-
tions and memoranda to private importers may be ready for distribution by
Dec 26. Target date for private import system remains Jan. 1, 1950, with
general framework as reported in A~347 ESS Foreign Trade and Commerce
Division official: pressing for finalization of all pending SCAP-processed
import contracts by Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MIrI)
before Dec 2l, since ESs does not wish to be subjected to criticiam for
over-lapping into private import program MITI presently delaying action
on contracts and negotiations, according to Ess, presumably awaiting estab-
Lishment private import aystem next year.
9. Future of Dollar Retail Outlets Uncertain. In connection with pri-
vate imports and projocted quarterly import budget to be drawn up by "Coun-
cil of Ministers" with SCAP approval, ESS now reviewing draft budget which
includes 1950 firet quarter allocation of 3,600,000 in foreign exchange
for Uverseas Supply Store (OSS) and Overseas Automotive Supply (OAS),
SCaP-organized imported food and drygoods outlet, and automobile agoncy,
respectively, for non-Occupation foreigners, as well as other privete con-
cessionaires selling importec goods for dollar-tacked Military Payment
Certificates (MPCs) and Traders: Certificates. While ESs believes 1950
first quarter exchange allocation for Oss, OAS and private dealers will
be granted, plans are now under way to cut off their dollar budget after
arch 31, 1950 Firms concerned may then be permitted to continue opera-
tions on yen basis but with no guarantee of foreign exchange allocation.
ESS officials, adaitting that some presently authorized dollar-sale stores
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyos A-387,
December 23, 1949.
-4-
may be forced to cloe, point out that present Ess plans call for aboli-
tion of Traders' Certificates by March 31, and that use of MPCs will be
greatly restricted t that time. ESS believes Post Exchanges and other
Army-administered 'nstallations may also sell imported goods for yen,
with MPC dollars eing used for purchases of rationed items such as
cigarettes. This plan admittedlydifficult to institute since opposition
is expected frcm other interested Sections of General leadquarters. EsS
Foreign Trade and Commerce Division officials feel that abolition of
Traders' Certificates and limitation of MPC use is one of most important
single steps, towards return to normalcy of Japanese economy.
10. Offer of Burmese tice to Japan. Mr. Maung Maung TIN, Govt of
Burma representative on Japanese reparations matters, has informed Ess
that turma, recently accepted as member of Far Eastern Commission, has
appointed him official Durmese Trade Representative in Japan as prelude
to possible establishment of full diplomatic mission here. With two
Burmese business men scheduled to arrive in Tokyo shortly, Tin will dis-
cuss with ESs possibility of selling to Japan Burmese goods valued at
about15, 000, 000 including100,000 tons of rice. Quotations for 1atter
reportedly about 20 per cent above world prices, but Tin hopes that SCAP
will accept offer since Burma greatly interested in purchasing equal value
of Japanese light machinery and communications equipment.
1l. Reparations Comaittee Holds Final Heeting. Reparations Tech-
nical Advisory Committee (RTAC), with only seven of 13 mamber nations re-
presented, held ite final meeting on Dec. 20, with Colonel E. C. MILLER, Jr.,
Deputy Chief, Office of Civil Property Custodian, in chair. Colonel Miller
stated that work of RTAC had been completed and that Supreme Commander,
no longer requiring its technical assistance, had ordered Committes's die-
solution as of Dec. 31, 1949. RTAc has done little except of routine
nature since June, 1949, when reparations program suspended, having limited
Itself recently to giving technical advice on dismantling of previously
selected Japanese plants, and actual shipment of reparation items to coun-
tries of destination; latter reportedly will be completed by about Jan. 31,
1950.
SEBALD
500
CHBoehringer)
WWDieh1
)lee
RWAdams
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING AIRGI
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
A
ACTION: FE
INPO:
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
DC/R
L
Date of
E
CONFIDENTIAL
mailing:
Docomber 30, 1949.
DC/L
ITP
(FOR DEPARTMENT USE
Rec'd:
January 11, 1950
10:28 A.M.
CFD
ONLY)
NA
TRC
on Ass.
CLI
Secretary of State
raroat
Washington.
A-399, Decomber 30, 1949
1/12/50
(This cirgrar. cuprlomen s thie Mission's A-387
NA
Decenter  1949 and earlier eargrens in thae.
Nut
89
daries
Receet dictribution be Limited to
pepartmer lor veasone stated in A-21 of Jamudsor
E
E
29 1549.)
4
500
C
5
F
9
F
1. Prutunbataon of ho e to Diot Postponed. Japanose Govt
0/
tlonal budget Tor risa 1os0 st, which Yoshida Alainistration wms to
52
ye progented to the Diet  wee 23. hes been withheld pending deci-
bas on whtch budget wes fo ated was that there would be no inereace
wage lovud of Govt waplop 
Prime Mini ster Shigeru YOSHIDA has made
304
hmutment to Geueal Headguworm sCaP. to hold the line on wagosa
eumatment wnich hes baen opt as guerded seeret Oppoeition partios,
however have seised wxen   lnereases for Sovt euployees" as major
6
1 seue and r Yoehide hes le it bo krown to Ghe, seaP, that he is not.
pertain of complete pupport r on bia own party in opposing any inerease.
2. Statun of Angle Ane  aon Textale Ji aston to Japen. Reference
Leon (7) A-gw bec as pepe 1 my proposed Anglo-American toxtilo mie
clon to sapan
0 peper Sron aenington damed Dee. 29 states that
"Coneral MaoAhribn hes p ent d porat sston for mabere of a joint British-
umertcen testile malseton to viete capen ams no sct the textile industry
. they come es individua o and nst an an cfficxal or quasi offioial
sroup " Dept mny be tat reaoed to note the c) respenre to Deptel 652
Les 14 made pereonally by Majer Generel   ma UAT, Chief, Economde
und Scientifie Sect on (ss) Por purposan or vocord, full tokt of Gene
ral rguat's telegram. sent dee 2s to Dop of Ammy. quoted horewithe
'As trading indimadu dr em lortns poestb mmlee for trade, clearances
wilt be granted on app tont on to thoce pereeas concerned, if they moot
r individuels wiil be oxtended
he tndividual reuaarecente weeclbed
he cane privileges. mad wal to subjece to che came obligatione neither
No official recognition
ore or ee en ra sdr us.
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.This copy must b retomed to DC/R central fles with notation of action taken.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's A-399,
December 30, 1949.
-2-
will be given them as a national or international body, nor will they be
permitted to assume any prerogatives in axcess of thos of any other
traders. Tho group as such can have no quasi-ofricial rating. As indi-
viduals they will be entirely weicome." Dept may note that, although
General Marquat has stat ed in unmistakable terus private character of
Anglo-American misaion, he msy heve ceen prompted to follow that line
as means to combat influonce in Dept of Army of Mr. F. A. HILLIAHS, for-
mer Chief, Ess Textile Division, who bas steadfastly been opposed to
idea of having any such mission visit Japan. Hr Williame, who appar-
ently is still consulted by Dept of Army on Japanese textile mattere,
was quoted in that Depi s Dec 17 talegram (cited in A-387) as ques
tioning need for such mi ssion te viait Japan
3. Japanese Wool Glove Exporte to U S. In confidential telegran
to Dept of Army dated Dec 21 Ess gave following dats on axports of
Japanese knit wool gloves to U. S.: (a) ahipped during period Jan. I
to Dec. 16, 1949, total cr 326. 400 dozen valued at $945,973.30; (b)
schoduled for shipment balance Dec., 10, 700 dozen valued at $31,870
at 360-1 exciiange rate; also 51, 307 donen valued at $100,952.90
against contracts validated prior to establiahment 360-1 rate; (c)
echoduled for shipoont during Jan 1950, approximately 8,600 dosen at
$21, 945 at 360.1 sxcharge rate. At recent ES3 staff meeting, Goneral
Harquat reed letter fran official of Anerican Vool Glove Hanufacturers
Association, who visited Jupan recently expresping appreciation for
opportunity to study Japanese production ani discuss future prospect
for exports to U. S Dept mili recall thet que stion of Japenese kmit
wool glove experls te ( s recet ved nde publicity last spring, matter
being aired in Congresslonal hearing
4. Japan ThaiLand Trade Agreement
SS Foreign Trade and Ceamerce
Division ofricials und Tnei Govt Trade Rapreeentative Suphot IGanINANDA
have completed worh on Taadland- sapan Trude Plan fo: 1950, which, udth
Trade and Finaneial Agreamente, ware submitred by Sss to Chief of Staff,
GHQ S AP, for approval on Dec 28 Trade Agreotent calle for develop
mont of trade betwoen swo co mtr les o largest cxtent prectical, with
initlal entiantes puaced at B45 slilton sach way during 1950 (see 2tem
Sb, A-375. Der ) Principal inpo s fron Thailand to be rice. moy-
beane and raw materrale, end Jap an a expors chiefly textiles. choicale,
relling stocl anxt othe manufartared gocda Moet -favored-nation treat-
ment is rcorded sutlly unrier ageevent ae regerds customs tariffs.
Pinanciel Areemmmd uall fer ir sestte pmaytont on demand of creditor
of any axc ese ovr .st bal ance c 5 00. 00.
COUFIDENTTAL.
(FOH DEPARTNENT USD OBDLE)

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo'. a-399,
Docomber 30, 1949.
-3
5. British and Danieh Objoctions to HarineTransportation Law.
United Kingdom Liaizon Mission and Deniah Diplomatic Mission have mub-
mitted protests to General Headquarters on behalf of Far Rastern Freight
Conference and British and Danish shipping lines against authority over
foreign ahipping by Japanose Covt under provisions of Marine Transporta-
tion Law, made effoctivo on Aug 25, 1949. Both Hissions point out that
shipping conferences were not wubjoct to specific pre-war Japanese logia~
lation, and thet restrictive clauree of present Law will not only place
conferences and non Jepanono shipping sntorprieos under poosible discri-
minatory Japansse authority, but may also permit resurgence of undesirablo
Japanese pre-war maritime practicee Missions request that General Head-
quarters take action to institute new legislation or amend present Law to
exempt foreigu shipping Prom all restrictive provisions of the Law. Offi-
cials of Ess Fair Trade Practices Division. nov drafting replies to Mie
sions. state that enactment of Law was due principally to British and Far
Eastern Freight Conferencs requests for legislation which would authorize
conforence operations. previouely banned under Anti-Monopoly Law ESS
officialu concerned add that replier will be to effect that Japan has
jurisdiction over shipping conferences and that latter must accept re-
strictive clauses ot Merine Transportation Law (which, in large part, is
based on U S. Shipping Act of 1916) the enactment of which Lew firet
legalized their operations in Japan Deepatch on this subject wdll be
prepared upon receipt of Ess replies to Hiosions.
6. Open Account Audits liear dompletion Ess is nearing complotion
of its audits of open accountu under trade arrangements with various coun-
tries, notifying govte concorned of balancee as of Oct. 31, 1949. For ex-
ample, Ess informec Sw di h Diplomatic Misaion that Oct. 31 sudit showod
balance due Sweden of t21 O16. 6? cepresenting excess of imports from
Sweden totalling 41, 199 113 70 cvor Jacanese experts in amount of $1,178,097.17.
during l949* Undelivered por ts or Japanese export contracte wdth Sweden
as of Oet 1 amountea te 30 36, 20 tbe being no outstanding import con-
tracts Sss hee aise pnformss Prenen posion that Oct. 3l audit discloeed
balance in Pavor or Frenct Uaon  526 25e 95 thie sum representing dif-
ference botweer Japan me umpores ontor Trade agreement wath French Union of
$7, 866. 760 39. and export: total1ue  7 270 503 44 ES8 Foreign Exchange
Punde Divieion states Dct 3 audit e final one to be made by Ess, with
future audits to be reeponsibilit/ r Pank of Japan in accordance with pri-
vate amport export srede yutm (yrst o monthe)
COIPTDENTIAL
(POR DEPARTTERT URE ONLY)

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's A-399,
December 30, 1949.
-4-
7. Legialation for Private Import System. Ordinances, regulations
and memoranda prepared by Japanese Govt on private import trade system
to be inotituted Jan. 1, 1950, are now in final drart form but udll not
be released until on or shortly after Jan. 5. Previously reported these
enactments, et cotera, would be released prior to end of 1949; delay
in issuance said due to week-long new year's holiday being observed by
Japanese Govt offices
8. Conferences on New Japan-Sweden Trade Arrangement. Conferences
between Swedish Diplowaatic Representative and Ess foreign trade officials
cheduled to commence Jan. 10 in conmection with new Trade and Finencial
Arrangements and Japan-Sweden Trade Plan for 1950, these to replace pre-
sent egreements which apire Dec. 3l but which will remain in effect un-
til finalization of 1950 Trude Ilan (see item 8a, A-375, Dec. 17).
SEBALD
500
CHBoehringor:
HWDion1
:lee
RwAdams
COMPIDENTIAL
(FOR DEPARTHENT USS ONLY)

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEC
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
894.50/12-3049
for Japan
· Tokyo, December 30, 1949.
REC D
OIVISION
E2 JAN 11
NORTHES
AOTION
No. 911
FE
INFO
CONFIDENTIAL
DCR
neet
OLI
OFD
894.50/12-3049
E
ITP
Subject: Transmission of Report of SCAP Mission to Okinawa.
EUR
The Aiting Politi al Adviser has the honor to refer to the
Department's airgram instruction no. 239, December 20, 1949, re-
guesting a copy of the recommendations of the SCAP mission to
Okinawa mention f which was made in item (10) of this Mission's
A-347 of December 8. 1949.
Enclosed is a  py of the report in que tion, comment upon
which is given in this Missien's A-347
XR
890.50
 Copy of memorandum entitled "Report
of SCAP Mi ssion to Okinawa."
MAR 22 1950
FILED
FAP
Parchment Met to Department
500
WWDiehl:lee
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 9ll, December
30, 1949, from the Office of the U.S.
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
CONFIDENTIAL
the subject "Transmission of Report of
SCAP Mission to Okinawa."
(COPY)
Report of SCAP Mission to Okinawa
This report proposes:
1. An exchange rate of 120-1 to be used for all commercial
trade and for internal purposes.
2. A  onversion ratio of approximately 50-1 for the purpose
of pricing GARIOA aid
3.  minimum wage of 2,000 per month. This ld result in
en avarage wage of about 2,100 at present work hours.
It is hoped that the soale will provide an incentive for
longer vork hours resulting in an average monthly wage of
¥2.400
That the special supply stores be abolished and that pre-
ferential pricing of meals for workers in compounds be
abandoned. Using the 50-1 conversion ratio for GARI0A im-
ports still makes this a low figure.
5.
That domestics and club workers who have meals furnished
al so have deducted a sum equivalent to the dedustions for
cmpound workers
6.
That workers on public works be paid a seale roughly 1o
per cent under the military scale. In outlying areas, how
ever, such work should be at the prevailing rate of the
area.
That OCA provide wages comparable to the "military" the
Enancing of this made possible by increased income taxes
fron "military" workers.
8.
That the reclassification of workers now under considera-
tion be expedited.
9.
Phat the money supply be properly distributed as between
the several geographic areas by proper budgeting and allo-
cations of the RMG budget.
10.
That a separate R. F.C. not be established, but the present
banking system provide "counterpart" loans to private in-
dustry. The report discusses how such loans are to be made
without tying up funds unnecessarily and without creating
inflationary pressures.
11.
That an adequate supply of Japanese consumer goods be pro-
vided even if it means utilizing GARIOA funds and exeluding
other GARIOA items.
12. That
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch Nc. 911,
December 30, 1949.
-2-
12
That the prineiple of reducing GARIOA by dollar earnings
be modified.
13. That every inpediment to inter-island trade and aade with
Japan be eliminated.
14
That every effort be made to improve present manpower
utilization, so as to keep the expansion of the labor force
to a minimua.
15. That budgeting and planning. both U.S. and Rus, te coor-
dinate
16.
That a budget mission from Tokyo be called in as soon as
poasihle te revise the budget and place the Rig budget so
as to cineide with the U.S. budget year as an aid to
budget and planning ccordination.
Ni ssion
This SoaP massien t, Ckinawa is "for the purpose of making te-
conmendations te the Comsanding General Ryukyus Commarr. the 
ternal excharce rate wage levels prices of imperted foods and
financial pre ei res to be established in the Ryukyus Islands."
Statement of the Problem
Widespread distertions as between wages, prices, the exahange
rate and ether factors now are evident throughout the Ryukyuan econo-
my threateniny the exa st ing program in the Ryukyus. The expanded
nstruction p
 m cannet help but ageravate the already serious
soonomis problems. the success of the construction effort is depen-
dent upon achieving stable wage and price levels ani establishing a
satiefactery rete af exchange between the Ryukyuan yen, the dollar,
the Japaness yen, and the Philip  peso. It is essential that
stability to achioved so that contractors can bid with some degree
of certainty as to their costs
Assumptions
That the Ryukyuan yen must continue to be utilized.
2.
Phat the peak laber force will approximate 55, c00 Ryukyuan
workers including additional new service workers for the
expanding American community.
3.
That the present cost of living will be maintained or re
duced
4
That the fiscal policies for the Ryukyus must be lanned
on the basis of the volume of dollar expenditures in the
Ryukyus with due consideration of the expansion of trade.
5. That
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
Encloture to
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 91l,
December 30, 1949.
-3-
5。
That the maximum dollar expenditures to the Ryukyus
(Sl0.3 million) for construction will be made in U.S. Fis-
cal Year 1951.
6.
That the U.S. will provide adequate funds for the we fare
of the people and the rehabilitation of the economy.
That the size of the "military" construction progra pre-
cludes the immediate and full reconstruction of the south
half of Okinawa and that reserves in yen and dolirs must
be set aside against the day when the "military" construc-
tion pre  ied and the reconstruction can be under-
taken.
General Findings
In general it has been very difficult to obtain the data neces-
sary for a fully adequate review of the several problems. It is
necessary, therefore, to base the analysis upon estimated or incom-
lete data. To be sure, estimates have been checkud f.  veral
sources in an effert to obtain the basis for the evaluation of tre
existing situatior, and recommendations. The paucity of data, the
uncertainty of many conditions, and the linitations of time preclude
Long-range recomnendation with regard to the problems. It is the
unenimous cpinion of the group that the success or failure of the
program of recommenlations is contingent upon the proper timing and
coordination of the several segments. The most important single
elenent, however, is the speed with which an ad quate supply of a
variety of consumer goods suited to the Ryukyua needs and testes
an be made available. The economic pressures to be anticipated
from an expanded construction progran are such that the present eco-
nomic distcrtions will be further aggravated unless action is prompt,
direet, and sound.
Recognition should be given to many of the RMT personnel who
see their individual problems clearly, and to many who also under-
stand the overall problems. Much of the present situation arises
from faulty ceordination of effort and lack of delegated authority
to take action.
Exchange Rate
At the present time an internal exchange rate of ¥50 to the dol-
lar is in effect Yen are purchased with dollars and utilized to pay
for labor and supplies furnished to the "military" establishment by
t.he Ryukyuan economy
Imports have been priced, in theory, at ¥50 to the dollar, in
practice there has been considerable variation. Typical rates fol.
Low: medical supplies ($10 rate), fertilizer (¥25 rate), food for
compounds (¥33 rate), P0L (¥40 rate), industrial equipment (¥40 rate),
food through mura stores (¥95 rate), etc., etc. A small quantity of
imports from commercial accounts sold on the free market average
about ¥250 to the dollar, with individual conmodities going as high
as ¥450. The incentive gocds for special trade stores range from ¥40
to ¥60 in their rates.
Exports
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 911,
December 30. 1949..
4 -
Exports (exclusive of phosphate rock) average around 2c0 to
t leliar with wide ranges between individual items. There exists
a black market for Military Payment Certificates at abcut Wi40 to
the dollar. M.P.C.'s circulate freely, though illegally. mong
the Ryukyuans.
The present exchange rate is unrealistic for the purpose of
employing Ryukyuan labor. It is also unrealistic for comercial
imports and exports and military conversion. For purposes of ex-
hauge with the Japanese yen 1 to 1. it is most inequita  e. For
all these purposes the present rate does not reflect the true value
cf the currency
ords.
For American Aid imports to the Ryukyus the problem is not one
of the value ef geods landed ir Okinawa at an exchange rate. These
gonds purchase! primarily from high cost producing areas and carried
to Okinawa with high cost shipping are for the welfare of the people
and the relabilitation of the economy. The maximum limitation on
this exchange rate should be the quantity of yen required to operate
the military gevernment in lieu of a centra? Ryukyuar  roment and
to provide a "counterpart" fund to aid the recerstructior  peha
bilitation of the Rtyukyuan economy through grants-in-aid and/or loans.
Because imperts under GaRIOA have such a high per capita dollar value
asrelated to the per capita dollar value of domestic production.
hey cannot be translated to yen at the exchange rate used for other
purposes without provisicn for accumulating excessive quantities of
yen. An attempt to provide the public with the required purchasing
power at such an exchange rate would create drastic inflationary
pressures. Further, it is essential that the cost of living be main-
tained or lowered to insure the success of the military construction
program. (An analysis of the yen rate as applied to GARIoA imports
and the budget appears later in this report.)
It is recomnendei that the internal exchange rate should be al
tered to some point wathin the range of ¥120 to ¥140 to the dollar
with a distinct preference for the lower rate. Gross rates to the
apanese yen and Philippine peso should be in terms of dellars. x-
port considerations do not warrant the highest rate in the range.
The lowest rate in the range is preferred so as to favor low prices
en incentive goods purchased from Japan with Ryukyuan dollar earn-
ings. Finally. the lower the rate the less the inflationary pres-
sures therefrom
Wage Levels
At present there are approximately 40,000 Ryukyuan workers em-
ployed by the military, its agencies, contractors, and authorized
individuals. Of these from 26, 000 to 27 000 are Category 1 workers
who are paid from yen "purchased" with appropriated funds. The re-
maining 13 O00 are Category 11 workers who render those services which
are considered of a personal nature and are paid from funds collected
from individuals or agencies utilizing these services.
Present
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure to
Tckyo s Despatch No. 911
December 30, 1949.
-5-
Present average cash wage levels for Category 1 and 1l Okina-
wan workers range from ¥650 to ¥700 per month. This represents
13. 00 to $14.00 per month at the 50 to 1 exchange rate. In addi-
tion to cash wages there are hidden wage payments in t erms if auth-
crized (and unauthorized) payments in kind. Goods purchased it
special trade stcres at preferential low prices are genersly re-
sold in the free market and give the workers an estimated average
profit ef 200 per menth. vorkers in compounds have dedueted from
their pay ¥4 per day for three meals provided from food purchased
by using units at prices which are unduly low. In some in tances
workers and their families are provided with living quarters, pro-
vided they work lto hours per menth.
Hany Categery ll workers in homes, clubs, ete. are furnished
ath feod lothing and incidentals Workers in some lecations ob
ain salvage. dunnage, ete. by virtue of their employment. Finally,
thoe is st ealing f supplies from warehouses, stores, docks and
thor facilaties
Yost signific ant in the lew average meney earnings is the high
omcentsatten f werkers empleyed at a ¥3.o +o ¥3.5 (6   cents)
per bour A seaend signifirant facter is the lor average' s per
mont) (l40 to l60) fer a large proportion of Category 1 workers
Thas atsonte sm is due to higher hourly wages fer part time work
in pri vate industry. or on public works, and to temporarily more pre.
Pitasle wor on farms.
It should te puinted out that wages in cash and kind (in dollars)
purr ently eppreach 1? 50 per month. The average monthly wage is
oa oo to shs co the profie from tancentave" goods i spivalent to
worth yi ts value is somewhat higher. These dollar rates at the
preemt tire are so to I exehange rate
Hage vatee for workers in private enterprise range frem tbree
to four tirnes those pait ty the military. its agencies and contracte
lHoues af werk however in private enterprise are reported te be sut
stantaally above the tours presently worked by employees ef the umiln-
tary. Hourly ant daily wage rates en publie worke are peported to be
twe  three times the military" rate. For selected skalls in shert
supply (carpenters, plesterers, ete.) the rate on public works and in
peavate con struction ranges to abeve four times the "military" rate.
Date on the cost of living have been mest difficult to obtain.
Purther ranges presented by various sources are extremely wide for
so important an element of data. Fhe range is from 2, 00o per month
to well over 4, 000 per menth for a family of five. Our best esti-
mate is that : minimum cost of living is approximately ¥2 500 per
month for a family of this size This computatien assumes roughly
that 25 per cent of total calcrfes are obtained fror the free market
The Laber Section of Military Government has made an estimate ef food
for a family of five at official prices. This estimate of 1 C30 per
month with all purchases at official ration prices, if doubled for
non- food
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclesure to
Teky:  Despatch N:. 911,
December 30, 1949.
-6-
non-f a stems, provides a v2 O6o figure. (Internationally accepted
rate of 45% for food; Japan over 60% for food)
It is re ogniced that the range as between these twe rimates
is still wide. However if the practices follcwed are sine  to
those in Japan it is prebable that there are frem 1.3 to   orkers
per family which presuppt ses . larger inccme for a family than is che
tained solely  trough The earrings of the head of the family. The
second werher. however, is usually a chill or wife of the I of the
fanily vorking at a very low wage. It must be assuned fureher that
many of he Powest wage groups are single persons. Furth  pre. in
mary ether nstartes year-rcund small farms supplement famlly income
 terms of ods.
It is ro monded lerefore. thet a mininun wage of approximately
s2 cse por yontt be ostabli shed for Categery1 werkere working 48 hours
por week hi pan l accomplished by settins a new rate of yio per
Lrar fo ti lowest rade Category 1 worker now class fied in R-2 at
a  ate s y so per hour. This approximates the estimated cost of
Lavins r  family of five (on the low side) and is in line with the
La bat mats in private industry. It is eesumed that ch the
Fereese s be were ere werr ve suffi iente anrentive  woek t
Beas a  wrs pr week anstoat ef the present average
this sl otd at ter the neet for seeking supplementary emplayment.
 s re ommondet further thnt in general a straight "across the
 p reas   en to the other lassificetions in eategery 
pebvetent t the frorease froe the present to the new aoa rate.
s shrrue e medified by a shighe widering cf ohe differentials be
pwee. pbe a atler eome-ekalled ekelled and prosessienat groups.
w wde ecin cpreesion s  
It is suggested that the follovany tifferen-
A or fr Frsent
Uuskalled R Grades
7.50 a yer hour
Semi-skilled R Grades
7.70
！'
Skalled a Grades
7.90
Profe ssional R Grodes
3.20
!!
I as est tmated that tb net result of this reccomendation would
be pougly a tbreece i! anr cease (incluaing reclassifcations of obs
new cut f line) ar on average of approximately ¥2,l0e at present
work boure. (40 boars per week).
If longer hours are worked, as is anticipated, it will result
in average eamings of about ¥2,400 per month. ¥2, 400 per month re-
presents a dollar purchasing power of 20 00 at the exchange rate
of 120 to 1.
It is al so reconmended that the job reclassifications under con-
sideration be expedited so as to be effective simultaneously with
ther actions and that at the same time consideration be given to
reducing
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclc sure to
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 91l,
December 30. 1949.
-7 
the time required for "step" rate advances. It now takes a worker
three and one-third years to advance in five steps from the minimum
to the maximum cf an exceedingly narrcw rate range.
Problems may be anticipated in increasing the wages of thly
paid workers in Category ll. The present scale for these woraers
wages was calculated in general on the basis of a 40-hour werk week.
le imitation on hours was specified, other than the overall imita-
mon cf tso hours of werk per month. Te simplify the imnediate pro-
bien and as a matter of equity with werkers in Category 1 shose re-
commended wage pres have been calculated on the a ssumption of a 48-
hour Lasic work w wcommended that the increase to monthly
pai workers i tey  outated  3 hours
per nanth (a6 hours per week) times the hourly yen increases granted
in the co paratle Catecery I classification. It is recommended.
ow  hat these t ifications be reviewed with a view to estab-
ishing a tasir work week wherever possible Fer those classifications
where a basls work week is established at 48 hours, adjustments should
be made in the wace srale for the additional hours over 40. In general
 basis work week can le establ shed for the vast majerty  cleesi-
. e   y d soan
For waroeee in Categery l presently paid on a hourly rate basis.
 is ve mrended that increases be given equivalent to increases in
he comparatle grades af Categery I workers. It is assumed that job
lassitiration standards now under considecation for Category I werkers
will be applled alse to workers in Jategery ll. It is further recom-
m mded that when meals are provided either te monthly or hourly paid
workers in Categery ll deductions be permitted net to exceed the
weure cuth rrred for ded rctaons for meals for workers in wompounds.
(p be dcused later )
Present money wages on Okanawan public weorks projects are fay
above wages paid by the military. its ageneies and contracters. It
Is essential that hourly daily and monthly wages on the public works
progran be belew the "prevailing" wage Because of the preponderance
 "military" workers tn Okinawa, the prevailing wage is the "military"
scale. Care must be exer ised to see that malpractices such as "auto
matic" evertime, "aredit" for time not worked, and superior "elassifi-
atiens" are not resorted to on the public works program in order to
cireunvent the intent of the regulation growing cut of this recommen-
dation. Publie work wages outside of Ckinawa should be at wages pre-
vailing in the areas ef the projects for reasons discussed elsewhere.
Ckinawan civilian administration emplsyees should be paid wages
and salaries comparable to the "military" scale in an effort to im-
prove their quality (reference to finaneing the increases invelved
will be made later) OGA is not following the American and "military"
pattern of paying the worker in accordance with the type of work per-
formed. It is continuing the Japanese practice using sex age. educa-
tion. and experience as criteria for determining the salary to be paid
each employee. Whether OGA provides comparable wages by adopting the
"military" seale and method or adapts the Japanese method to accomplish
this end is not :cnsidered within the purview of this mission.
In view
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyc's Despatch Ne. 911.
December 30, 1949.
-8-
In view of the recommended increases in money wages and other
compelling factors, it is proposed that the proferential treatment
In price and availability of consumer goods now afforded Category 1
and ll workers be discontinued.(Reference to factors other than wages
and distribution problems are made elsewhere.) It is recommended also
that wage deductions for meals for workers housed in compounds be equi-
valent to the cost of food without preferential treatment. I should
also be pointed out that elsewhere where such feeding has been used,
it has been considered a proper charge against military rather than
 elief funds.
This mission recognizes that its recommendations with regard to
wages provide only a miu. prevement in the present low standard
of living for Okinawans employed by the "military". Any reduction in
the recommended wage level would place the United States in the posi-
tion of exploiting the labor of a liberated area. In making these
recommendations the mission was alsc influenced by many other econo
mic considerations principally the danger of inflation involved in a
too drastic increase in wage levels. It is hoped that when consumer
goods in large supply are available and other forms of economic stabi-
lization have been achieved that it wili be possible to grant further
wage increases and to make provision for premiun pay for overtime hours
worked on the basis of international accepted standards.
Prices of Imported Poods and Financing Procedures
The mission directive contained the statement "for the purpose of
making recommendations on
prices of imported foods"
Inter-relationships with other factors required that a review be made
of pricing practices for all GlloA goods to be distributed to the
Ryukyuan peeple.
The financial problem is one of establishing a relationship be
t ween the several elements of the whole. GARIOA goods are imported
without cost to the Ryukyuan pople. Non-GARIOA consumer goods are
purchased with dollar rnings The sum of these goods are sold to
the Ryukyuan people, whe have two sources of yen ineome - work for
Ie "r litary" and werk fer the government, ineluding government
public works. Wages paid by the military and the government (with
some adjustment for non-wage government expenditures) sets the limit
in yen needed by the people to purchase the goods available.
If one assumes that consumer goods purchased with dollar earn-
ings of the Ryukyus should move at the exchange rate and thus balance
the gross wages paid by the military at the exchange rate, then the
problem centers on balaneing government expenditures with revenues
derived from GARIOA goods distributed. A high exchange ratio for
GARIOA goods distributed could generate far more yen than the govern-
ment can possibly spend currently for gocds and services, and carries
a tremendous inflationary potential. Such GARIoA goods distributed
therefcre must be at an conversion ratio which will produce only the
quantity of yen desired. The question then becomes one of determin-
ing the size of the MG budget so as to establish the exchange ratio
This RMG budget should not compete or interfere with the "military"
construction program. A way must be found, then, to determine what
the RMG budget should be. The problem requires a national income
approach,Although the national income is not known, it is possible
to estimate roughly what is to be added to the national income by
virtue of the GAIOA and "military" programs. Dollar earnings or
additions

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclcsure to
Tokyo's Despatch Nc. 91l,
December 30, 1949.
- 9 -
additions to the national income can be removed from consdderatia
because the item is "balanced" by consumer goods purchased at b
proposed exclange rate of 120 to 1..
The value of GiRICA goods entering the economy must then be
directly re ated to the average wage paid by the military". At
*2, 4ce per month the average "military" worker will receive a wage
tquivalent to 20.0 per month at 12c-1. An initial assumption
made in this st dy wes that prires would be maintained or Icwered.
Thns would call for retaining the present averaze conversion ratio
fi ARICk commodicies. This average appears to be somewhere be-
tween 40 and 60  st uld be remembered that much of the good
is. in fart, "purclhas
vernment, ant o ratio for such
 ls hae lit le munnine be ause of the counterbalances. The dis-
tributabi- prtion is le significant part. An impertant corollary
 be point ut. Assuming a fixed dellar wage, an increase in
 id distributrt to the people wonld require automatie lower-
-s af the yrices f jatIoA and gocds.
is is fut tlt te rovenue to be derived from tre present price
 ale cn present distrio ted GaRioa imports will be suffic ent to
sipp rt a g verrrent budget estimated to be in the range r. s
 s million yen f'r tins year. This excl des the value of GaRioA
rts csur y the vernment. The relationship cf these figures
 the U.S. military" expenditure program ie of significance. The
 ter ($1c 3 l n) at 120 t I wall te 1 236 million in 1950.
Fr ris ye: ihe revise! "milltary" expenditure f S4. 0 million will
 8o millior A comparison should be noted. The original 1950
RMG dget wa,  a billicn. as contrasted with a U.s. "military"
program f (.0 million) 20o million at 50 to 1.
fh prch en can be approached in another manner. Assuming a
populatlon of 6O.C0o GA?ICA aid and construction expenditure on
1950 and 1951 represents £35 per capita per year. If the 55 000
military workers were to proluce the tollars to generate sufficient
pu hasing power to -nabl- the islands to mat-h American aid expen-
ditures in dellars (er yen a: any exchange rate) it would require an
annnual wage of 3540 per worker.
The proposed wage scale should previde an average monthly wage
of 2s0 per year with an increase ir the monthly work hours. The re-
iationahip between the 3540 and $240 annual wage indicates that the
import conversion ratic for GhRIOh should be 44 per cent of the ex-
change rate whatever that rate might be, This computation would re
juire a ratio cf 33-1 if the 120-1 axchange rate is accepted. Some
cushion in the ratio wmuld have to te provided for shrinkage, loss,
e!:., and for some provisicn for the accumulation of yen in the
hands of the publin.
It should be noted that by bolding the conversion rh io on GARIoA
ti 50-1 while advancing the wage scale and shifting the exchange
rate to 120-1 is oquivalent to providing a wage with a $540 per annem
purchasing power at a $240 per annum wage rate. When the sources df
upply
CONFIPDNTIAL

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
Maclosure to
Tokyo's Dospatch Nc. 911,
December 30, 1949.
-10-
be available from nearby sources at the exchange rate betweea
and 120-1. Further, also it should be noted that a conversion 
f 50-1 does nct alter the total for all programs in U.8. dollar.
If the 50-1 ratic were nct used, wage expendituree would hava to. be
in'reased te compensate for the total ccst of the GanIOA a:' involved.
It should be pcinted cut that the budget problem has been most
omplex. Differsnres between the U.S. and RG budget year only com
plicate an aiready very difficult problem. It would be well to
develop a new bu iget now which would rin to 30 June 1950, in order
rlinate udgeming.
It is reccgrized, of course, that the 1,242 million RMG 1950
budget 1 fact, has been drastically altered. The pay-ae-you-go
ini;1- introdi ed an important safety slement into the budget.
it introluced the proper relationship between government income and
experdi' pres but inadvertently neglected the problem cf magnitude of
toth  rlat to cther fartors.
In the lis ussion of wages the recommendation has teer made to
apply a wa- sc ale - parable to the "military" pay scale to Okinawe
Civil Aiminis rat ve enplcyees. The increasei income tax receipte
from inireased wage levels of military" personnel are sufficient to
:s he wage level cf CCA empl yees te the military rate (discussion
publir finane arrendix).
It appeare that the MG yen budget for RNG Fiscal Year ending
 March 95c was yet F withelt a translatien of that budget to dol.
Lars at the tlen 50-l exchange rate so as to facilitate compariscn with
the U.S. ccnstruction progran as then evisioned. (This supposition
hae been confirmed )
No dig-ussior of financial problems can be complete without con-
sidering the distribution of the money supply, The money supyly should
be directed and controlled so as to facilitate overall economic re-
cvery to previde the outlying areas with purchasing pewer with which
tc purclase the GA?IOA supplies and to consolidate the geographie area
inveived irto  single economic entity. Virtually all of the "military"
xpenli:ures are on Okinava. Outlying areas, however, need funds with
which to purchase their equltable share of the GaRIOA imports, whatever
their share may be. The cnly device available (in addition to the
limitet trade) is tie G budget wdth its grants-in-aid, public works,
If the r-quirements of the se eral goographic areas are programmed
and distributed properly, the MG budget can schedule expenditures in
ea-h area accordingly. (The trade problems wall be discusded later
in this report.) It should be pointed out that the allocation of funde
for expenditure :an be developed so as to include grant-in-aid, publis
works, and "counterpart" rehabilitation loans to industry.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.85)
Enclomure to
Tolyo's Deepat-h No. 9ll,
Dec ber 30 1949.
-21-
posils are made for loans only after the loan io approved. ard mtili
to the xtent that the borrower is prepared to spend such bor owtagt
The purpose is to provi e private organizations with rehabilitation
funds and to distri ute pchasing power
In Japan he   rr irt fund Ias a different purpose. There it
awe off ex e curreny in cirulation and is then used pr arily to
stu- the rati nal deit only a pirt of the cotal is re i atr luced
in ie e enony te as to rivate cond put lie) enterprise.
e government.
Laroe advancs ymen out  the -en'r treasury should be
 liaiy tort-term roeds shou'd determice the amount of
r-y aade y ilable te outlyirg areas. The Bank cf the yuky
Ta i-poblir ias ution an be utalized as the lending instite
trer for Jong-lorm "counterpart" loons for the rehabilitation of pri-
a rt prese Parrarked governrent deposits an be med nvatl.
t'e fe Lens o posfeed torrowera at Low inteoes rt o ror snd
re et Shall loan shouo lo he dis reti f he b wathin
crarewoc of ti plicy and only large pr geate ard sup lamental
ias shouis rputr i attuntior. Iu arta practice loans could be
ed efere he  marhe gevernment deposits need be made. In
oan  operate e onst rurtion Fnarce E nk (oreratel to a large degree
liti on i:at ns) a no' successul ant a similar insti
on is ! oredre a'yls for th ukys
BDo anurrorhatin is below thoeood r
e a rso tk mier he oondans o is rerrt with
-sper to  pri s et. Becanse no velocit data aro avatlable,
ad tecause tlere is me way re measure othor aspects of the preblem, it
s m seible to pompre low mu coreney wilr be roured. Certainly,
he ch misls n currentl biocked in be Pank of the ukyus could
 lrased crlally d e efres sulied ahcare
Trade une the Stpuly uf so ds
Cther than mait aining pregere or Power pro es cn CanIoA perts
tistributel  the people an alopate siply f reign (apanese)
gods f types desired by the uyuane is the must important elament
in  ntatine inflatien so as to assre to success of ihe U.3. con
stru tion program It is telieved o be so essential that it is felt
that subst antial Ganica expendit res should te made for this purpose,
"ven if it means eliminat ng son- hing else rom the GaRioA program.
Fai lure o prcvide consumer sools for wide distribution will result
on drastic ir ton as the US. rs' cution propram reaches its
peak in 195
The drain of yen Prem utlying areas is bellieved to be cause in
sale  their inrentive rode. The initial problem here is the 
ing behind the special trade stores. The tbility to l ipet
CONTTDDTIL

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclssure to
Tekyo's Despatch Ne. 91l
December 30, 1949.
-12
goods at a profit to an extent that yen are drained from outlying
areas is indicative of the demand for incentive goods in those areas
It is believed that incentive goods (Commercial account and GARI0A
procured) should be distributed in volume to the population et large
et reasonable prices, as represented by the l20-l exchenge rate.
It is believed that the principle of reducing U.S. appropriatione
by the amount of Ryukyuan dollar earnings should be modified, because
U.S. appropriations he : ever been programmed so as to include either
reserves cr reasonable consumer goods requirements of the Ryukyuan
econemy While it is sound with respert to Japan, it is unsound with
respect to the Ryukyus. The immediate need for Japanese produced con-
swrer goods is ec great n the Ryukyus that all current Ryukyuan dol-
I ar earrings plus necessary GaRloA funds should be made available at
the earliest possible date to start the program. Heretofore in this
repert, an attempt has been made to balance wages, prices, budgets,
etc. in terms of yen. Balancing dollar earnings with an inflow of
onsumer goods is just as essential. These dollar earnings are real
sarnings of the Ryukyuan economy, and should accrue to the Ryukyuans
who are desperately short of consumer goods.
Finally, it should be pointed out that trade between the several
islands must be facilitated so as to even out the supply of indigenous
goeds over the area, every impediment to such trade should be abolished,
and every enccuragement should be given to the development of a Ryukyuan
fleet under private cwnership with competitive shipping companies. Loans
should be extended for the construction of such a fleet in the Ryukyus
and dellar earnings should be utilized if required for purchases from
the utside. In view of the limitation (probably of long duration) on
port facilities at Naha, it should be possitle to promote the substitute
use ef cther pcrts. Trade between the islands and Japan should also
be facilitated to the greatest extent possible. With respect to trade
with Japan the simplest pcssible procedures should be instituted so
that traders, rather than government officials, do the trading.
Recapitulation
There is much in the Ryukyuan economy which is best characterized
by the word "artificial." The support of its curreney however, lies
in the long range prospect cf continued dollar earnings resulting from
the presence of the U.S. military on the island. There follows here-
with a presentation showing the inflationary and deflationary elements
in the resommendations made
Inflationary
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.92)
halooure to
Tolgo & Deapatch No. 911,
Decomber 30, 1949.
-13-
Inflationary
Doflationare
Dirert expansion of labor
1. Increased supply of
fore requirements.
goods.
Reduction in prcduction by
2. Reduction in exehange rate
r -moval of workers from
for trade goods.
usual jobs.
Chang  exahan rate from
Holding Public Wrrks wage Lime
20-2 1140-2
to 90.s of "military' wage.
Increise in wa
Hise in rices for "compound"
food u . eimination of
trade goods stores.
Fssure  re tours ef
5. Probable increace of .st bal-
w:rk.
ances in hands f the peoples
srut
Budget rortrol throush deposit
big creas.
o? part of the
cf
total atd.
Satenaton f relabilitation loans. ?. Adjustment of Public works
expenditure to compensate for
rehabilivation loans.
Expansion f curr noy issue.
 should be pointd  that much of the inflationary pressure
resulting frem an  nded coastruetion pregran can be cffset by i
provemen'a in te ctiliz on c t present manpewer so as to keep
the xpansien of the Laber frre to a minimum. Hanpewer managerent
Iss s  role in the public works programs. Proper phasing of
some of ha enployment to coinride with those periods in which indi-
genos food produ.tion is at a minimum should help. Care must be taken
 that lours c? work and wagus paid on su h temporary work aseigrmonts
:annct be onsidered superior to the usual  cupation.
It is difficult to udge the net effect of ali of the above as
tampered ty current trends. It is hoped that the net effect is to e
tablish an equilibrium. It wa: poirted put initially that there ie
tremendous neud for consmer goods at this time. It is reported that
the supply cf su'h goods in the special trade stores is sufficient to
satlsfy the peeds for lees than two payroll perlods, Immediate action
should be taken to satisf the present need and provide a continuous
flow of consrer goode. A pinimum cf $2.C million worth of goode
should be procured immediately from GaRIOA funds, and the machinety
se: in motion for a flcw of goods at least equivalent to the doller
earnings. When this has been accomplished the changes in the wage
: ale and ex hange rate as recommended may be made. This does mat
ne:ssarily prerlude negotiation on construction contracts, sine .
re: ommended wage  le may be developed immediately and converted
doilar value at the proposed exchange rate for use in eost esti
CONPIDEITIAL

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.90)
Enolosure to
Tokyc': Despatch No. 91i,
December 30, 1949.
-24-
There is considerable evidence of a lack of broad vision
dination in the overall planning to date. All programa and budy
maximum of ecoromir freedom and opportunity should be permitted tho
Ryukyuan people
Finally becduse of the lack of public confidence in the uk-
uan yen, it miht be wise to set aside a mall proportion, or pre-
sant dollar earnirgs as : fund to provide backing for the yen. Such
lacking should be t leist equal to and perlaps greater than the ex
g rate vlent  counterpart loans.
Over tine, a:. t
theseuans are 
reia, there w ul: ts ioliar rinis with which to purchase materiale,
ilies. and  rant from ut side the yukyus. The overall effect
w uid le t  extmd in time the foree cf their present dollar carn
s  hat e wu be available after the construction program
as been cpeted.
It is essuntia? that the Rg budget be reruivel an? tret the
s udget yer Le angel so a te oine ide th the  s. tudget
ear as  ai to bulet an! planring oorlinatien
CONFIDENTIAL
