894.001 Political Affairs., Japan, Chief Executive. Sovereign. Visits., August 10, 1945 - February 5, 1948 (File 1613)
ID: 894.001-1613   Pages: 70   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.001-political-affairs-japan-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION G-2
AUG1 31945
WASHINGTON
AUG 1 1 1945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JuB
894,001
Dear Mr. Grew,
Professor Homer Dubs of Columbia University is an outstanding
scholar in the field of Chinese philosophy and religion. He is
the translator of the works and life of Hsün Tzu and of the Dynastio
History of the Han. He sent me, in the course of private manusoript
ciroulation, a paper which I think you may wish to glanoe over and
to refer to the experts, such as Mr. Dooman, in your Department.
Briefly, Professor Dubs takes up the problom of making sure that
Japanese history for ages to come will reveal the gemuine full defeat
of a Shintoist people by a democratic people. He believes that this
can be effeoted by two measures:
894,001
first, the present Emperor should be replaced by a successor
removed by more than four degrees of kinship and older than himself,
so that the faults of the Showa Emperor (in not resisting war against
America) can be proved by Far Eastern religious standards;
second, the Three Sacred Treasures of Japan should be borrowed
by us for display and examination, should be shown under conditions
which make a symbolic demonstration of their inferiority to our
symbols, such as the Tomb of the Unknown soldier, and then returned
intact to the Japanese.
-1045
My own opinion (if you will forgive my expressing it?) is that
the first proposal is too weighty to be considered for the reasons
which Professor Dubs gives, but that the second proposal may be well-
adapted to the psychological climate in which the Japanese live.
Allow me, Mr. Grew, on this happy day, to congratulate you on
the coming of that victory to which your own untiring efforts have
contributed so much. I wish that the public could know, as I myself
know, how patiently you have accepted misunderstanding, ill-founded
criticism, and even public obloquy when the prudence of government
policy required that you expose yourself to attack without defense.
Very sincerely yours,
Paul m.A. Linebarger
Anal
FOPVICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
Cat
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
Angast 11, 1945
Dear Captain Linebarger:
Many thanks for your letter of Angust 10
and for the paper on the Japanese Emperer
and his oult by Professor Homer Dubs, which
will be givem a careful reading in the Depart-
ment. I appresiate more tham I sam tell you
the very generous statement in the fimal
paragraph of your letter.
With kindest regards,
Sincerely yours,
894,00
Joseph C. Grew
Captain Paul M. A. Linebarger,
Military Intelligence Division 0-2,
f-1045
War Department General Staff,
Washington, D. C.
A true copy of
the signed origt
nal.
TN'R
U:JOG:GES

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
sosiried, but not to
O
THE JAPANESE EMPEROR AND HIS CULT
by
Professor Homer H. Dubs
Department of Chinese
Columbia, University
Of the two major enemies with whom the Alliss must deal, Japan may prove
the nore difficult. Germany is a country fundamentally like ourselves. Fascist
movements have existed even in the United States and Britain, so that we kmow
how to devise ways of dealing with them. But Japan is quite different. It is
not merely that the Japanese language is difficult, but that the sort of idees
and feelings current among the Japanese people are in important respects unlike
those in occidental countries. Our real trouble is in understanding Japanese
ideology.
The Japanese state is organized about a set of concepts that have never been
current in Europe and which offer to the average patriotic Japanese a motivation
fundamentally different from ours. Under the guidance of the clever Japanese
ruling class, certain ideas have for a period of several generations been in-
stalled into this people in their schools and by government propaganda until
they have become accepted as axioms by the average person. We cannot deal with
Japan just as with other enemies.
The Japanese emperor or Mikado is not thought of by the Japanese people as
an ordinary human being. He is the direct physical descendant of their highest
god, Amaterasu Omikami, the Sun-goddess. Thus he is not merely a ruler over the
people. He is the natural head of the Japanese family and nation by virtue of
his descent. His person is sacred and inviolable. No one may even look down
upon him, so that high buildings are not allowed near the Imperial Palace and
upstairs blinds ar pulled down wherever he passes. In schools, daily respect
AB

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
is paid to him. Heads of schools are expected to give their lives, if mecesemry.
rather than allow any harm to occur to the picture of the Mikado, befere which
regular reverence is made. More than one school-teacher has lost his life in
attempting to rescue this picture during e fire.
The ancestors of the present emperor have moreover reigned over Japen from
time immemorial. The Japanese imperial dynasty has never been overthrown. Japan
has moreover never been successfully invaded or conquered. It is the only moderm
country, aside from our own, whose soil has never felt the tread of a foreigm
conqueror. By governmental order, every Japanese citizen is furthermore required,
whenever called upon, to attend and show respect at the temples where are onshrined
the Imperial Ancestors, including the first ancestor, the Sun-goddess. These are
the State Shinto shrines. The people stand at attention while a set form of words,
called a porito. is read and certain other reverences are performed by their
leaders.
Whether the ideas underlying these practices are true or false is not im-
portant. The average Japanese has no means of determining their correctness.
He believes them because no one presumes to contradict them. Ordinary, people,
even in our country, do not moreover usually worry about the scientific truth of
their beliefs. providing those beliefs produce results that are desired. The
common American belief in the inferiority of every negro, in spite of outstanding
negro achievements in many fields, shows that Americans and Japanese are funda-
mentally alike in their willingness to accept w at they consider will benefit
them. Religious beliefs are indeed usually accepted, not because of their proof
or lack of proof, but because they work. If they do work, they are often be-
lieved, regardless of their truth or falsity. There is moreover enough truth
in these Japanese beliefs to make them plausible to the average person.
2

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
It is a fact that Japan has never been successfully invaded. The largest
empire the world has ever known was that of the Nongol ruler, Hublai Khan. It
covered practically the whole of Asia sxcept Indie, also including much of
eastern Europe. He was the first foreigner to conquer the whole of China. Non-
gol horeemen defeated European chivalry at the gates of Vienna and were only
prevented from conquering the rest of Europe by the necessity of returning to
Mongolia in order to choose a new Khan. Yet two attempts to invade Japan in
1274 and 1281 were checked by the Japanese until storms destroyed the Mongol
fleet. Japan was the only country that successfully resisted Mongol invasion.
Japanese histories naturally make much of this military feat.
It is also true that the Japanese throne has been continued in the same clan
since-the beginning of Japanese authentic history. Before the ninth century
there were however several usurpations. Since then, until 1868, the imperial
line has been respected. Most of the emperors however did not actually rule.
but merely reigned. Assassinations, exile, and deposition of emperors occurred
at intervals. The country was ruled by another clan, whose head held some title
such as regent, Shogun, etc. The continuity of the Japanese imperial line has
been preserved because that clan was willing to give up the imperial power and
retain only the imperial title. Emperors have been made and unmade by the actual
rulers of the country and civil wars between contestants for this rule have at
intervals laid the country waste. Since l868, the Mikado has ruled direstly and
no individual has emerged to challenge his power. Crucial decisions have however
been made by a small group within the government and the imperial ratification has
nearly always been a mere formality. The Japanese claim of imperial continuity is
correct only with reservations and the imperial person has been far from inviolate.
But violations are ancient, so are easily passed over and neglected.
3

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
As for the divine ancestry of the Mikado, this is no more than was claimed
by many ancient noble houses in Europe and elsewhere in the antique world.
Jepanese authentic history moreover begins only in the fifth century A.D., so
that there can be no disproof for the divine imperial ancestry. Governmentally
approved textbooks teach this dogma. It is accepted by all Japanese exoept a
sophisticated few. Teaching anything else is lese-majesty.
To the average unthinking Japanese, these facts add up to the conclusion
that their emperor is not a mere human being, but an actual living god. This
doctrine has been widely preached by various important Japanese publicists.
The Japanese government is not then a merely human institution, but a real
theocracy, government by a god. The Shinto shrines are places where the ancient
Japanese gods are really present. Attendance and reverence there constitutes
worship of these gods, who are the imperial ancestors. The existence and power
of these divine ancestors is proved, to the average Japanese, by the continued
existence of the Japanese imperial line. This unbroken lineage indicates a
powerful divine guardianship over that line. The failure of all attempts to
invade Japan proves, even more strongly, the actual divine nature and power of
these gods. Then Japan is itself a divine country, under the special protection
of the greatest gods. Its people are a divinely cared for race. They are superior
to all other peoples in the world, because of that supreme divine providence.
Japan is a unique country. No other place has, like it, had such secure divine
protection. The Shinto Sun-goddess, who lights up the world, is the highest of
all gods, the natural ruler, not merely of Japan, but of the world. Hence the
Japanese emperor is the natural ruler of the world. The Japanese are, accordingly,
the god's chosen people to conquer and rule the whole world. These religious
ideas underly Japan's recent attempt at conquest and expansion.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Not all Japanese take the foregoing attitude in the full sense. But the
pressure of Japanese public opinion has in recent decadee been so great that few
persons have been willing to contradict this view. There are atheists in Japan
as in all civilized countries. Buddhist philosophy, when carried to its logical
extreme, is monistic or atheistic, with no place for special gods of special
countries. Confucianism, in the form current in Japan, is also monistic. Pro-
testant and Catholic Christians of course deny the Shinto gods. But the govern-
ment has provided opportunity for equivocation and accomodation to Japanese
nationalistic Shinto ideas. For the benefit of sceptics, the Japanese government
has officially declared that this State Shinto is not a religion. Shinto per-
formances are said not to be worship, but only reverence. This pronouncement
has been accepted by the Catholic Church, by Japanese Protestant Christians.
and even by many American Protestant Christians in Japan.
Shinto has however'been the religion of the Japanese rulers and people from
time immemorial. Shinto shrines and performances were not changed from their
ancient forms when they were declared to be non-religious. The people know that
they are just what they anciently were. The persons who officiate at these
ceremonies hold the same positions as those who anciently officiated, and the
norito read at these performances are the same as the prayers that have always
been used. To the average unsophisticated Japanese, Shinto is a religion. Only
sophisticated persons think differently.
One who understands the differences between various types of religions can
easily understand why so many Buddhists and Christians have accepted the dogma
that Shinto worship is not religious. Shinto is a nature religion and not an
advanced religion. The Shinto gods are personified powers of nature: the sun,
the storm, etc. Such nature gods are thought of as divine rulers, fundamentally
like human beings. They require from their worshippers no more than human rulers
do - outward attitudes of respect, the proper amounts of flattery and adoration.
5

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
and their traditional tribute in the form of sacrifices. Advanced religions smch
as Buddhism or Christianity however require more - for them religion is not merely
an outward ceremony, but also an inward attitude of the heart. To the Christian,
mere standing at attention at a ceremony before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
is not religious. The worship of nature gods consists however in precisely such
outward performances. The ancient Romans, who had a similar nature religion,
demanded that every person must, when required, worship the Roman gods in this
manner. They did not require their people to have any particular inward belief
or feeling towards the gods. Christian martyrs died because they refused to cast
a handful of incense upon the altar of the gods, not because they did not believe
in those gods. Nature gods do not require belief, but only their due worship.
No beliefs are required of State Shinto devotees.
Many Japanese Christians and Buddhists, who know that their own personal
religion is fundamentally inward, accordingly feel thet it is not a religious
performance to attend Shinto shrines and maintain respectful attention while the
traditional formulas are read. Similar performances before the American Tomb of
the Unknown Soldier are indeed non-religious. Such Japanese have grown up in an
advanced religion, and mistakenly think that any religion must be like their
personal faith. But the average Japanese, who has not had such training, recog-
nizes these performances as religion. Thus two different persons, with different
religious training, can consider the same performance differently: one recognizing
it to be religious and the other declaring it is not religious. Consequently sin-
cere Christians, including the present head of the Japanese Protestant Churches.
have agreed with the Japanese gvernment that Shinto is no religion, and have attended
Shinto performances with good consciences, declaring that they have been profoundly
moved thereby.
6

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Japanese militarists, who are interested in unifying their whole peeple
behind the Emperor and the attempt to conquer Asia, have thus taken advantage
of a natural confusion of ideas among religious people. The government deelare-
tion that State Shinto is non-religious has enabled it to require the people all
to attend Shinto patriotic worship. no matter to what religion those people be-
long. Freedom of worship is guaranteed in the Japanese constitution, and is not
theoretically abrogated by such a requirement. The purpose of this requirement
is of course to unify the people, to inculcate implicit obedience to the govern-
ment's commands, to excite a truly religious patriotic fervor, and to secure the
people's support for the government's imperialistic warlike designs. The average
unsophisticated Japanese willingly attends these religious ceremonies. . The enlightoned
devotee of an advanced religion also attends them, believing them to be non-religious.
All are of course affected by the solemnity of these performances and their appeal
to patriotic feelings. Thus State Shinto has been used to further Japanese mili-
tarism. The people are thereby worked into a martial fervor of patriotism, so
that they are willing to be martyred in the service of their country and gods or
to sacrifice their own true interests for the benefit of their government and its
masters.
The Shinto gods are moreover special gods of Japan, who favor that country
rather than other countries. The trouble with advanced religions, for military
purposes, is that the gods of advanced religions are universal gods, who cannot
properly favor any one country over others. This fact has not prevented even
Christians from praying that the God of the whole earth should favor their ewn
country in war and destroy its enemies. But, after the excitement has died down,
peoples' good sense has generally prevailed and Christians have usually realized
their God must love other countries just as much as he loves
that/their own country. Thoughtful persons moreover recognize this fact even
7

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
during a war, So the gods of advanced religions are unreliable for the purpose
of whipping up militaristic fervor. Ludendorff recognized this fact when he
attempted to revive the worship of the old German pagan gods, Wotan, Thor, and
others. A sincere worship of such nature gods, who love their own people and
hate others, would indeed constitute a wonderfully appropriate motivation for
any warlike enterprise. Universal gods however make into pacifists those
devotees who do not accept the war aims of the nation. Fortunately the good
sense of the German people has prevented the wide popularity of a pagan religion.
One important feature of the Christian and Jewish religion has been that
its God is superior to all nations, so that the purposes of all nations must be
criticized by the moral law incarnated in this universal God. Consequently.
occidental rulers have often been checked, when they went too far, by the moral
sense of their own people, because their religion requires criticism of the
government. The power of religious and moral criticism has however depended
upon the vitality and social sensitivity of religion in particular countries.
The advantage of a nature religion, like Shinto, for militaristic activi-
ties, is that its gods are themselves the divine rulers of the state and that
the existing government merely carries out the will of these gods, so that there
is no possibility of criticizing the government by any higher standard. Nature
gods are moral, but mildly so, as every gentleman conforms to the code of his
class, whatever that code is for his time and place. Since the Japanese ruling
class has been warlike and swashbuckling. the Shinto gods are naturally warlike.
At the Yasukuni Shrine, these gods deify even the worst criminal who dies fit
ing for his country. Torture, rape, murder of unresisting prisoners - any deed
whatever in war is approved by these gods. German war criminals can plead only
expediency as a justification for their crimes. The Japanese have in addition
8

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
the consent of their own gods. These deities favor the conquest of alien ne-
tions, because the gods thereby secure greater revenues. Nature religions
induce a people to obey their rulers implicitly, whereas advanced religions
are likely to make a people criticize their rulers.
Japan has, in Shinto, a religion ideally organized to support an attempt
to conquer its neighbors. Because of Buddhism's willingness to appease and
tolerate other gods and because Christianity has arrived in Japan only very
recently, there has been preserved in Japan, as in no other civilized country.
a nature religion, with special gods who care for this country above all other
places. By l868, Shinto had nevertheless been almost completely absorbed by
Buddhism. When, at that time, there was an upsurge of Japanese nationalism,
ancient Shinto was deliberately revived, purged of most of its Buddhist accre-
tions, and strengthened by imperial support. Japanese leaders malized that such
a religion would aid their government against other peoples. Hitler must be
envying greatly his ally's religious advantage. The Japanese die for their
country with a religious zeal that is unmatched in other more rationalistic
countries. No wonder the Japanese warlords believed they could conquer the
world!
The divinity of the Mikado is of a piece with the rest of Shinto. To
understand this phenomenon, we must go far back into occidental history, even
before Greek or Roman times. Although Alexander the Great was deified in Baby-
lonia and Egypt, the Greeks would not admit his divinity, for among them a sharp
distinction had been drawn between the human and the divine. When the Roman
empire tried to deify its emperors, for the same reason the Roman people would
not accept that doctrine, only admitting that the emperor's genius or guardian
spirit was divine. Only orientals and those who held to oriental ideas accepted
9

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
the wormhip of the Roman emperors during their lifetime. The Chinese discarded
the divinity of their emperors about lloo B.C., when their regent declared that
the greatest Chinese god, Heaven, had himself dethroned the preceding dynasty
because of its ruler's wickedness. The Chinese have subsequently made moral
judgments upon their rulers and have considered themselves to be religiously
justified in rebelling against those rulers whom they condemned. In ancient
Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, and neighboring countries, rulers were however regu-
larly made gods during their lifetime. These peoples had religions fundamentally
like modern Shinto. The reason we do not understand Japanese ideology is that
we are not accustomed to think back 2500 years. Japan has moreover a great ad-
vantage over all these western Asian empires -- the Japanese imperial line,
through historical circumstances, has never been changed, whereas these other
nations repeatedly changed their dynasties.
 So Japan is today a modern civilized nation with an antique religion of
great power that is ideally adapted to support aggression. Her leaders have
used this religion to mobilize their nation spiritually as well as physically.
With a religion fundamentally unlike ours, our leaders naturally misunderstand
the nature of the Japanese nation, the Japanese emperor, and Japanese ideology.
If we studied more about ancient Egyptian or Assyrian religion, we would under-
stand Japan better.
*
Today the Allies face two tasks: to defeat Japan and to make her harmless
to the future of the world. The first task is being brilliantly performed by
our military leaders. We need feel no misgivings here. But the remoulding of
Japan will be much more difficult. That remoulding can moreover only be performed
in the last resort by the Japanese themselves. All that we can do is to see that
10

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
the conditions are right and then trust to the good sense of the Japanese them-
selves. A nation that has shown such great abilities, both in war and in other
respects, cannot be devoid of common sense. The trouble has been that this good
sense has been biased by Japanese militaristic ideology.
The most serious warps in Japanese thinking have been produced by the his-
torical invulnerability of Japan to military conquest, the sanctity and in-
violability of the Mikado, and the religious sanctions given both of these by
State Shinto. Each one of these three beliefs has supported the other two.
Japan's invulnerability will be taken care of by Allied military forces. Since
people easily neglect inconvenient facts (as, for example, the achievements of
outstanding negroes), it is possible that the other two beliefs may persist
even after Japan has been invaded by Allied forces. These two beliefs may
later produce another Japanese militaristic debauch, even worse than the present
one. If Americans, with their keen sense of fair play and democracy, are yet
afflicted with racism, how much more will the Japanese racial heritage be clung
to and cherished by that people, smarting under a great military defeat and the
destruction of their cities and wealth! Japan must not only be defeated. It
is also necessary that this people be brought to desire the elimination of the
harmful items in their tradition.
The sacredness and divinity of the Mikado and the cultivation of State Shinto
have and will undoubtedly bring great calamities upon Japan and its people. The
sacredness of the Mikado has induced this people to obey their government blindly.
since criticism of government orders constitutes disobedience to the divine
Mikado. The cultivation of Shintoism, with its compliant gods, has immeasurably
accentuated this tendency. It has prevented popular opposition, on the part of
the Japanese people, to military aggrandizement and military crimes. As a re-
sult, Japan must suffer defeat and the destruction, by bombing and military
11

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
action,'of its fairest cities, its largest factories, and the flower of its
manhood. This nation has not only lost the respect of the civilised world.
It will also be impoverished for a long time to come. But it is futile to ex-
pect the Japanese to recognize and admit openly that their own tradition has
brought them into this terrible condition. The Allies must give them special
reasons for rejecting the sanctity of their emperor and their belief in the
Shinto gods.
For these reasons, it is essential to make plain the violability even of
the Mikado. Hirohito must be dethroned. It makes no difference whether he has
inclined towards peace or war, since he has been either negligent or powerless
to prevent this war. It is the office, not the individual, that is important
in Japanese eyes. The essential matter is to remove from the minds of the
Japanese people their belief in the sanctity of their emperor. That cannot be
done unless the Allies prove to them that they are able to uproot even their
divine ruler. The present American practice of refraining from criticizing or
blaming or touching in any way the Japanese emperor plays into the hands of
nationalistic Japanese. They can declare to their people that even Americans
respect and are awed by the inviolable Mikado.
Such a conclusion does not mean thet we should drop bombs upon the Imperial
Palace and Shinto shrines .or injure Hirohito's person. It would be better for
us to treat him well than to harm him. We are civilized people, and civilized
people do not do such things. If we want the Japanese to apply moral criticism
to their own government, we must ourselves give them a good example of civilized
conduct, different from the barbarities practised by the Japanese armed forces.
We must refrein from harshness and impoliteness as far as feasible, allowing
Hirohito to save his face in unimportant matters, while yet remaining inexorably
firm。
12

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
There is another important reason for requiring, as one of the conditions
for peace, the dethronement of Hirohito. This is the fact that, whatever may be
his personal opinions, he is yet legally responsible for this war. The declara-
tions of war against us were issued in his name. The Japanese government has
mobilized its forces in his name. The Japanese emperor legally is the govern-
ment. Everything done legally by that government is theoretically the act of
the emperor, since the whole bureaucracy is merely his executive arm. He has
not interfered with government action, whether because of his negligence or
otherwise, but he is yet responsible, for the whole Japanese government and
people act for him. No prime minister or government official has the authority
to interfere with the acts of the Mikado. If we punish those leaders who have
brought on this war and yet do not touch the emperor, in whose name and with
whose tacit consent they acted, we will not get to the root of the matter. Such
a failure would be considered by the Japanese a piece of Yankee ignorance that
would cause intelligent Japanese to believe they can continue to outsmart for-
eigners. Future emperors would consider that they could throw all responsibility
for the acts of the government upon others and escape punishment. Hirohito is
plainly guilty of a vast crime in bringing war upon us. He has failed to use
his theoretically absolute power to halt his minions' acts. Whether he actually
could or could not have stopped them makes no difference. The important fact is
that he did not even make a resolute attempt. He has caused us to expend count-
less wealth and sacrifice thousands of our citizens in order to right the wrongs
done by his government. Such a crime against us can be atoned only by his re-
moval.
It is unlikely that the Japanese people will wish to set up a democracy.
They will almost surely desire to continue under an imperial rule. If so, we
13

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
should probably permit them to have their way. Por democracy is not only the
highest form of government, but also the most difficult one to run succesefully.
Democracy requires a degree of good will, of civic righteousness, and of in-
telligence among the common people that is found in few countries today. We
cannot assume that the Japanese people have developed these qualities to the
degree requisite for making a democracy work successfully. Even in our own
country, democracy creaks and groans. If American democracy produces injustice
and inequalities, how can we expect democracy to be successful in every other
country? We cannot control Japan forever. If we impose democracy upon Japan.
and it turns out to be a failure, so that the Japanese eventually enthrone
Hirohito or his descendants, the results will be quite as bad as if he were
continued on the throne. The supernatural sanctions that have produced this
war will reappear in a revulsion against the failure of democracy and a worse
calamity than the present one may easily occur.
Then it is also important to prohibit from occupying the Japanese throne
the descendants of Hirohito, together with anyone who could be adopted as his
son. In Japan, ancestor worship is highly important. The continuation of a
line's honors by its descendants is considered more important than even the life
of an individual. In order to prevent the future exaltation of the Mikado who
has been responsible for this war, it is important that Hirohito be prevented
from being given imperial honors by a descendant who is himself an emperor.
Otherwise it will be possible for Japanese publicists to allege that he volun-
tarily resigned, as indeed several other Japanese emperors have done, and was
succeeded by his proper heir. Then the enormity of the calamity he has brought
upon his people will not be made abundantly plain to his people.
Present Japanese laws concerning adoption are liberal, but, in common with
those of other nations, they prohibit one circumstance - the adoption of someone
who is older than the person making the adoption. Anciently, the Taiho Code
10

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
allowed adoptions only of persons within the fourth degree of kinship. hem
the successor of Hirohito must be some man older than he and preferably ouseide
the fourth degree of kinship. That eliminates his children and his brothers.
It also eliminates all male descendants of the Meiji Emperor, for the male lime
of this emperor is continued only in Hirohito and his younger brothers. In Japen,
descent is reckoned only through natural or adopted sons. There are however some
eleven other princely houses authorized by Japanese law to provide a successor to
the imperial throne, in default of a more closely related heir. If, as seems
likely, the Japanese people wish to continue their ancient imperial line, it
should be possible to find among these dozen princes some suitable person. Suita-
bility may be conditioned upon the willingness of the new emperor to proclaim 
constitution that ends the control of the military over every possible cabinet.
which circumstance is the principal defect in the present Japanese constitution.
The means for making a change in the throne are also available. Art. LIII
of the Imperial House Law provides that any member of the Imperial Family who "acts
in a way tending to the squandering of his property shall be pronounced incapable."
By the time this war is over, Hirohito will be proved to have "squandered" large
parts of the empire he inherited from his ancestors. Just as Japanese admirals
and generals have been dying in unusual numbers because of Japanese military
failures, so Hirohito may be induced to recognize his own fault and voluntarily
for
abdicate/himself, his brothers, and his descendants. The acquiescence, in past
times, of the Japanese Imperial House to domination by other clans indicates its
probable willingness to yield under pressure. Such an act would save Hirohito's
face and would probably be preferred by the proud Japanese people to more drastic
action. It would moreover ease future relations between Japan and America. If
however Hirohito remains recalcitrant, Art. IX of that Law provides that "when any
15

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
other weighty cause exists, the order of succession may be changed, with the.
advice of the Imperial Family Council and with that of the Privy Council."
Action in accordance with Japanese forms would be preferable to us and probably
preferred by the Japanese Imperial House itself to a dethronement by forge
ma1eure.
If it is objected that such action is intervention in the domestic affairs
of another nation, it may be replied that war is itself interference in the
domestic affairs of a nation and that the Mikado, by declaring war, has brought
this situation upon himself. Japan dethroned the Korean royal house. As a re
sult of a complete Japanese defeat, the Japanese Imperial House ought to expect
little less. Even the contimuance of the Japanese throne in another imperial
line would be an act of kindness on the part of the Allies. Indeed, in ending
the present Japanese line and setting up a collateral line, the Allies would be
acting for the benefit of the Japanese people, in order to spare them another
calamity such as the present war.
In addition to taking definite action against Hirohito, the Allies must
also take definite steps against State Shinto, which has provided much of the
motivation for this war. Fortunately, nature religions are not difficult to
overthrow, for they are founded upon empirical considerations, especially upon
the ability of their gods to protect and aid their worshippers. A major defeat
in warfare, together with the successful invasion of the land they protect or
the forced abdication of the divine emperor who is their earthly representative,
with his possible heirs, is quite sufficient to cause the people to doubt such
helpless gods. More than mere doubt is however needed. These gods must them-
selves be made to confess their defeat and powerlessness. Only by some overt act
of submission on their part can their people be shown plainly how futile is their
worship and any reliance upon them.
16

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
The ancient Babylonian, Assyrian, and Egyptian conquerors kmew how te deal
with such mature gods and to make them appear impotent in the eyes of their ewm
people.  Whenever such gods were important, these conquerors brought them, im the
persons of their idols, to the temple of the conqueror's gods, setting these oas
of other peoples in positions where they would be plainly subordinate to the gode
of the conquerors. Once that had been done, there could be no doubt concerning
the power of the conquered god. Such action was not merely superstition. It
was high statecraft, the best means of preventing a rebellion by these conquered
peoples relying upon their gods. Such conquered peoples often thereupon adopted
the gods of the conquerors as their own gods, since these new gods had been
proved to be the more powerful ones. The humiliation and subjection of defeated
gods was in ancient times a regular practise, because of its proved effectiveness.
It was the surest way to discredit these gods completely.
For a Christian people, professing an advanced religion, crudely to perform
such an act, may however seem silly. It would be useless against an advanced
religion. The Hebrew ark, which enshrined their God, and which had already dis-
appeared before the destruction of the First Temple by Nebuchadnezzar, was
probably carried off by Pharoah Necho after he defeated Josiah in 609 B.C. But
its absence did not make the Hebrews cease worshipping their God, for they had
already developed their religion into an advanced one. Against a purely nature
religion, like State Shinto, no act could however be more effective than to re-
move its gods.
The Shinto gods are not enshrined in images. Idols, as the seats or shintai
of gods, were first brought to Japan by Buddhism. Shinto preserved the earlier
practise of locating its gods in aniconic objects. The Three Sacred Treasures of
Japan, the transfer of which is the most essential feature of the imperial coro-
nation, are a mirror, a sword, and a stone necklace. The mirror is the shintai
10

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
or habitation of Amaterasu Omikami, the Sun-goddess. She is supposed to dwell
and be located therein. The other two Treasures also contain deities. These
objects are kept wrapped up and have never been shown to any ordinary person.
State Shinto has been officielly declared by the Japanese government to
be non-religious. Consequently it will not theoretically be any interference
with religion for the Allies to demand that these Three Sacred Treasures be
loaned temporarily to the Allies, for the purpose of displaying these art
treasures at the great museums of the Allies under proper safeguards, where they
can be made accessible, photographed, and examined by experts. They should be
shipped from Japan, not on a battleship, but on an ordinary freighter, to in-
dicete that they are merely art objects. One of the places where they should
be exhibited is at the national American temple, the shrine of the Unknown Sol-
dier at Arlington and the similar shrine at London. These Japanese treasures
should there be photographed unwrapped and in a position lower than the sarco-
phagus of the Unknown Soldier. This photograph should be published widely in
Japan, for the common people to see. If an international center is established.
these Three Sacred Treasures might also be exhibited in appropriate postures
before that center, to indicate the subordination of these deities to inter-
national ideals. Thereafter these objects should be returned to Japan. We do
not want to loot Japan of its indigenous art objects. We merely want to make
them available to the civilized world.
The Japanese prize these objects so much that it is likely an attempt will
be made to hide them and substitute others. Some Japanese will be sure to say
that this has been done, whether or not a substitution is actually made. Unless
we can be reasonably sure that we have the genuine objects, they should not be
displayed at Arlington. A duplicate of the Ise mirror is kept at the shrine in
the Imperial Palace, Tokyo, where the Sun-goddess is also worshipped. This latter

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
mirror soo should be secured. If the Japanese government authoritatively de-
t
clares that/we have are authentic, we should accept its word. Por if that
declaration is made and we return these objects to Japan, even though we have
not actually possessed the genuine objects, yet the ones we return must be
installed in the shrines and worshipped, while the genuine ones mmst disappear
and cease to be worshipped officially, or else be later discovered and turned
over to us. If we can compel the Japanese to act as if we have had the genuine
objects, it makes little difference whether we actually had them or not.
In all this procedure, nothing need be said about religion, for, by
Japanese admission, State Shinto is not a religion. Consequently there is
nothing religious about these Three Sacred Treasures. Nothing derogatory need
be said about or done to these objects. But the Japanese people will quickly
see the point. Their greatest deity, Amaterasu Omikami, has gone to the capitals
of the victorious Allies, and has there acknowledged her subordination to the
power of these countries. In Japan, her divinity and power will be discredited
and her cult, together with the influence of State Shinto, will cease to be
important. The flamboyant chauvinism that has been characteristic of Japan will
thereby be given a mortal blow. Indeed, no greater moral effect could be pro-
duced upon the Japanese masses than by these two measures, the abdication of
Hirohito and his line, together with the temporary removal of the most important
Shinto cult objects and their control by other countries. Japanese ultra-
patriotism can only be dealt with by removing its support in the minds of the
people. Fortunately, in Japan, that support is physically accessible. Ancient
oriental monarchs knew how to treat such cults. We shall not do amiss by follow-
ing their example, but in a civilized manner.
2

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.96)
FORM DS-516
5-13-41
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CHARGE SLIP
CLERK'S
FILE NUMBER
DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT
CHARGE TO-
DATE OF CHARGE
INITIALS
FE-Memo
人
2
894.001/9-2745
by Vincent
Yome
GPO WFSO 8-22-49-25,000-2-068

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
CENTRAL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH SECTION
JA
ACTION: FE
INFO:
INCOMING TELEGRAM
S
RMSS
2789
U
C
PLAIN
A-B
SPA
Moscow via War
SA
Action JP
SA/H
Dated December 8, 1945
DC/L-C
ITP
Rec'd 12:45 p.m.
FC-1
SH
1
OTe
Secretary of State
INI
Washington
PI
11945
894.001/12-845
DC/4
4096, December eighth.
8
FOR ACHESON ACTING POLITICAL ADVISER.
12/10/45
Preas Decembor 8 cerried Tase NY (tem  T( up AP Tokyo
correepondent'o story comcenting negatively on Shidehara's statement
no det.
in Japanese Parliament that Emperor was not responsible for war.
Correspondent is cited to effect that Emperor wae present before war
at at leaet two eecrat conferences regarding plane for war againet
Britain and US At conference of Sept 6 according to story, govt
pereuaded malitrr sts of neceesity of beginning preparation for war
only in mid-October At other conference Emperor did not protest
againat military Story citen General Niston regarding pacond
conference.
ed Chungking 234, Frankfurt and Tokyo
1
C
EC11945
MESSAGE
USIGI
61945
8
LMS
PLAIN

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
OUT
TOP SECRET FIE
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHARGE AND
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
BY WHOM CHARGED
security classification, number of items, etc.)
894-001/6-2446
P//d
MAP 1 0 1960
Fetter o Vincent
Reid
. .
DS-1033 (3-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
16-70099-1
GPO

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
Kndm Bou
pa.
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA. ILLINOIS
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Auc 12 3 09 PM 46
August 10, 1946
DIP OCCUPIED -REAS DIVISION
OFFICE OF
(AD0)
SSISTANT SECRETARY
Mr. William Benton
STATEDEPARTMENT
Assistant Secretary of State
AUG 1119
Washington, D. C.
Dear Bill:
Department of State
On August 6 I received the following message:
"IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD HAS DECIDED ON VINING REPEAT
VINING. MAKING NECESSARY PREPARATIONS THIS END.
REQUEST INFORMATION SOONEST ON VINING ACCEPTANCE.
LETTER FOLLOWS AIRMAIL."
Thereupon I got in touch with Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining,
one of the two I had nominated for the position of tutor
to the Crown Prince Akihito in accordance with the
Emperor's request during the visit of the United States
Mission to Japan, and received her oral acoeptance in
accordance with the arrangements which had been agreed
upon previously. I spent several hours with Mrs. Vining
894.001/8
in Albany and was impressed with her extraordinary
qualities of mind and spirit. Dr. Rufus Jones of
Haverford, Pennsylvania, could tell you about her, and
you will find that leading Quakers regard her highly.
Attached 1s a brief curriculum vitae conoerning her.
On August 8 I received the following message
from Nugent (Colonel D. R. Nugent, Chief, Civil Informa-
/8-1046
tion and Education Section, CHQ, SCAP, APO 5OO, San
Francisco, California):
"SIGNAL SENT WARCAD 11 JULY 2 O7541 ADVISED
DECISION ON VINING LETTER TO YOU FOLLOWED ANOTHER
SIGNAL SENT WARCAD 6 AUGUST 2 12018 SAME MESSAGE
SUGGEST YOU CONTACT WARCAD."
This message is not clear since I do not know the meaning
of the code word waread.
Mrs. Vining's address until August 26 is
Box 251, New London, New Hampshire. Thereafter it 1s
6347 Wayne Avenue, Philadelphia 44, Pennsylvania.
The second candidate I had recommended, with-
out making any choice as between the two, was
Miss Mildred A. Chaplin, a teacher of extraordinary
ability at the University of Hawaii. At present she is
S
工
-1046

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. William Benton - 2
August 10, 1946
on a vacation leave visiting her parents 1n Waterloo,
Iowa, and I am informing her by letter of the desision
to take the other oandidate.
There is no publicity from these sources, and
I have 1nformed Mrs. Vining that she should wait upon
word from Tokyo or through channels.
With personal greetings, I am
Sincerely yours,
George D. Stoddard
Enclosures
President
Airmail Special Delivery

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
Charge to the account of
CLASS OF SERVICE DESIRED
WESTERN
CABLE
1217.
TELEGRAM
ORDINARY
DAY
LETTER
URGENT
RATE
SERIAL
DEFERRED
UNION
OVERNIGHT
NIGHT
TELEGRAM
LETTER
SPECIAL
SERVICC
RADIOGPAM
SHIP
TIME FILED
A N WILLIAMS
J. C. WILLEVER
PHESIDKNT
Send the following telegram, subject to the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to
WANT A REPLY?
C46 GOVT DL PD WUX CHICAGO ILL 6 642A
August 6, 1946
"Amwer by WESTERN UN
included withost chore
DR. GEORGE STOLDARD, PRESIDENT
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA, ILLINOIS
TO WARGA R R QYM GR EST 63CGR BO PAREN PASS TO DOCT GEORGE STODDARD
CVW PRESIDENT CMA UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS CMA URBANA CMA ILLINOIS PD
PAREN /B-12018/ OURAD ZEBRA NAUGHT EVEN FIVE FOUR ONE ONE ONE JULY
STATED IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD H DECIDED ON VINING REPEAT VINING PD
MAKING NECESSARY PREPARATIONS THIS END PD REQUEST INFO SOONEST ON
15
VINING ACCEPTANCE ND EASY TARE DOG PD LETTER FOLLOWS AIRMAIL D
WAR 0610072 CTNCAFPAC 060825.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
COPY
Charge to the account of
WESTERN
tR
CHECK
DOMESTIC
CABLE
1217
TELEGRAM
NAL
DAY
ETTL
HA'L
ACCOUNTING INPORNATION
SER.AL
UNION
OVERNIGHT
TELEGHAM
SPECIAL
SERVICE
RAL…XGHAM
TIME FILED
Patrona
shouid
Send the following telegram, subject to the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to
WANT A REPLYY
C22 INTL-F TOKYO VIA PREWI 38 8 105P
Auguet 8, 1946
"Answer by WESTERN UNION"
or similar phroses may be
included without charge.
VLT DR. GEORGE STODLARD
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA, ILLINOIS
SIGNAL SENT WARCAD 11 JULY 2 O7541 ADVISED DECISION ON VINING
LETTER TO YOU FOLLOWED ANOTHER SIGNAL SENT WARCAD 6 AUGUST 2
12018 SAME MESSAGE SUGGEST YOU CONTACT WARCAD = NUGENT.
WARCAD 11 2 O7541 VINING WARCAD 6 2 12C18 WARCAD.
-1046

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
éonfidential irrmation
MrWilliam Bensen
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA. ILLINOIS
August 10, 1046
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Mre. Elisabeth Gray Vining
Box 251
New London, New Hampshire
Dear Mrs. Vining:
I am glad to have your aote of August 7.
The uneoded portion of the eable whieh I
received from the Commander in Chier AFPAC reads:
•IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD HAS DECIDED ON VINING REPEAT
VINING. MAKING NECESSARY PREPARATIONS THIS END.
REQUEST INFORMATION SOONEST ON VINING AGCEPTANCE.
LETTER FOLLOWS AIRMAIL.
The oable was received here August 6. Arter talking to
you on the telephone, I oabled General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander Aliied Powers, Tokyo, as follows:
"ELIZABETH GRAY VINING ACCEPTS. HER ADDRESS
NEW LONDON NEW HAMPSHIRE UNTIL SEPTEMBER 1.
AIRMAIL FOLLOWS."
I am now sending an airmail letter of confirmation with
address and vital data. Also, I am informing the State
Department although I expect they have the meseages.
I feel that this is a happy oulmination of the
first phase of this dramatio assignment, and I have
every confidence in your ability to oarry through in a
devoted and distinguished manner. As I said over the
8-1046
telephone there will be some publioity attaohed to all
this, but I believe it will be sympathetio and restrained.
In any case, the first break must come from Tokyo.
With greetings and best wishes, I am
Sincerely yours,
15
George D. Stoddard
President
Airmail

=== Page 30 === (confidence 1.00)
Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining
6347 Wayne Avenue
Philadelphia 44, Pennsylvania
Born Germantown, Philadelphia, October 6, 1902
Germantown Friends School, 1919
A.B. Bryn Mawr College, cum laude, 1923
Did private tutoring. Taught English Composition at Ogontz
School for Girls, Rydal, Pennsylvenia.
B.S. In Library Science, Drexel Institute, Philadaphia, 1926
Taught Library Science in Summer School, University of
North Carolina, 1929, 1930
Married Morgan Vining, Associate Director Extension Division,
University of North Carolina, 1929. He was killed in an
automobile accident in 1933.
Under name Elizabeth Janet Gray author of eleven books for
children and young people, including Adam of the Road,
(Newberry Award, 1943), Sandy (Herald Tribune Spring Book
Prize, 1945), Penn, Young Walter Scott, etc.
Associeted with American Friends Service Committee, 1945-46.
Member of Germantown Monthly Meeting of Friends.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.83)
Augast 90, 1000
Dear Goerge:
years to coms.
00
Very sincerely yours,
Ibelinc it
Sine 
William Benten
that you
The ttor o
reopl eust
40
thayhn
Dr. George D. Stoddard,
the opand
President,
University of Illinois,
27 m. V.
Urbana, Illimois.
phh
15
shold also te
made hee.
t
ADO:GTBowles
A-B:MKG

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
DATE:August 15, 1946
TO : A-B - Miss Curran
AuG 16 9 51 AM 46
FROM : ADO - Mr. Bowles
OFFICE OF
SUBJECT: Reply to Letter from Dr. GassrgeaNtsatdardRy
STATE DEPARTMENT
A-B
I would suggest a personal reply from Mr. Benton to
Dr. Stoddard somewhat along the following lines:
"Dear George:
It was good of you to have taken so much
time to select the two candidates for the posi-
tion as tutor to the crown prince. Both of the
candidates appear to have been excellent choices
FW 894.
and I gather from your letter of August 10 that
the Imperial Household in deciding upon Mrs.
Vining accepted your judgment as to their suita-
bility without question.
As you know, I am keenly interested in this
particular matter because undoubtedly the future
Emperor will reflect the influence of his Ameri-
can tutor in the years to come.
As to the meaning of WARCAD, this is a con-
traction of War Civil Affairs Division. I pre-
sume this Division has already been notified of
the decision reached in Japan. As to publicity
8-1046
it seems to me that the usual news channels wili
give adequate prominence to Mrs. Vining's ap-
pointment both here and in Japan."
If you think Mr. Benton will want to give this some
publicity through Department channels, we could prepare
a short press release.
15
8/15/46
ADO:GTBowles:mbv

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
TO
: A-B - Miss Curran
DATE: August 22, 1946
Auc 23 11 39 AM °46
FROM : ADO - Mr. Bowles
OFFICE OF
STATE DEPARTMENT
A-8
In place of the previous, I would suggest:
"Dear George:
It was good of you to have taken so much time to
select the two candidates for the position as tutor to
the crown prince. Both of the candidates appear to have
been excellent choices and I gather from your letter of
August 10 that the Imperial Household in deciding upon
Mrs. Vining accepted your judgment as to their suitabi-
lity without question.
FW 894.
As you know, I am keenly interested in this parti-
cular matter because undoubtedly the future Emperor will
reflect the influence of his American tutor in the years
to come.
As to the meaning of WARCAD, this is a contraction
of War Department, Civil Affairs Division. Since the
financial arrangements and other details will have to be
00
handled through the War Department, I suggest that you
inform the Civil Affairs Division of Mrs. Vining's selec-
tion, in accordance with the proposal from Tokyo, and
request the Division to take the necessary steps to see
that she gets off. I believe this will be sufficient
since we can brief the officers here on the background
of the project.
7-1046
Concerning publicity, I am having a statement issued
immediately in accordance with your desires. It seems to
be appropriate to do this, since the initial release about
the tutor in this country was made while you were in Wash-
ington. I am asking that a copy be sent you in case you
fail to see it in the press.
Sincerely yours,
WilliamBenton"
15
ADO:OTBowles:mbv
8/22/46

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
P.4.
8/21/46
ADO - Mr. Bowles
As requested, I am returning the file
on Mrs. Vining, for further changes.
A地
A. T. Curran
A-B

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
8/20
p.a.
AUGUST 20/46
URGENT
GORDON BOWLES:
I HAVE YOUR SUGGESTED LETTER TO
STODDARD AND AM GETTING IT TYPED FOR WB'S SIGNATURE.
FW 894.
HOWEVER, NOTE THE ATTACHED.
WB WILL WANT SOME
INSTRUCTOON BROM YOU ON WHETHER OR NOT YOU
THINK THE RELEASE SHOULD GO OUT FROM HERE.
IF NOT, WE'D BETTER ADD A LINE TO EETTER TO
STODDARD, DONTCHA THINK?
ATCURRAN
8-1646
DIC OCCUPIED  REAS DIVISIÓN
(A00)
AUG 201
Department of State

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA. ILLINOIS
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
OFFICE OF
ASSISTANT SECRETAPY
DIC OCOUPIED DEAS DIVISION
(409)
AUG 2
Mr. William Benton
Assistant Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
departiment af State
Dear Bill:
The attaoned copy of a letter from
Colonel D. R. Nugent 1s self-explanatory. Also enolosed
is my letter to Mrs. Vining. A short time ago I sent to
894.001/8-1646
you some vital statistics on Mrs. Vining which will be
of interest in any press release.
Will you now take this over and make a suitable
public announcement? I would suggest that everything be
released except the paragraph desoribing the finanoial
arrangements. What they really amount to 1s that
Mrs. Vining will have $2,000 net above all expenses of
travel and living. I would not regard this as an item
as appropriate for public discussion.
If for any reason you prefer not to have the
press announoement oome from your office, please let me
know at onoe. I feel that we cannot hold this any
longer.
With personal greetings, I am
Sincerely yours,
Yeup
George D.Stoddard
President
Enclosures
AIR MAIL SPECIAL DELIVERY
S
15
工

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
FOR YOUR
Mr. Milliam Bente
CONFIDENTIAL ORNATION
G.D.S.
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA. ILLINOIS
August 16, 1946
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining
Box 251
New London, New Hampshire
Dear Mrs. Vining:
Attaohed is a copy of a letter just reeeived
from Colonel D. R. Nugent whioh is self-explanatory. I
note that full arrangements are being made for your
comfort while in Tokyo. Certainly these persons and
facilities will do much to make your stay a pleasant
one. Also, I should not worry about the partioular
ass1gnment of $1,000 for personal expenses and $1,000
for annual salary. This is just a matter of bookkeeping
s1 noe you will receive the sum of $2,000 elear in
accordance with the previous arrangement. Let us hope,
however, that you have little better luek with a
house than Anna hed at Siam upon first arrival!
I am sending this confirmation to Mr. William
Benton, Assistant Seoretary of State, with a suggestion
that he prepare a publio announmement at this time. As
you know, I have been pressed for it but have kept all
this in confidence. It seems to me that it ean soarsely
be kept longer.
with personal greetings and best wiehes, I am
Sinserely yours,
George D. Stoddard
President
Enclosure
15

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
GENERAL HEADGUARTERS
SUPRENE COMIANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Civil Information and Education Section
5 August 1946
Dr. George D. Stoddard
President, University of Illinois
Urbana, Iilinois
Dear Dr. Stoddard:
This letter is to confirm the recent cable to
you from this office indicating the selection of
Mrs. Elizabeth Gray Vining as tutor for the Crown Prince.
This Section has been informed by representatives
of the Imperial Household department that Mrs. Vining
will be a non-staff member of the Imperial Household
Ministry and will be under the superintendencs of the
FW
Minister of that depar tment.
A residence which will provide suitable
facilities for the personal comfort of Mrs. Vining is
894.
being prepared. The Imperial Household department will
be responsible for the furnishing of servants, heat, gas,
electricity, food, and an automobile. A personal secre-
tary will also be provided. with respect to all such
personal arrangements, the Imperial Household Minister
himself will be responsible.
The financial arrangements are as follows:
$500
for travel expense from the
United States to Japan
$1,000
for personal expenses (entirely
personal)
8-1646
$1,000
for annual salary
This office is arranging with the proper SCaP authorities
to make these sums available to Mrs. Vining in dollars.
Mrs. Vining's primary duty will be the education
of the Crown Prince. However, it is also expected that she
will serve as a lecturer at the Peers School which the
Crown Prince attends as an ordinary student in the Middle
School Department. Attendance of the several princesses
as well as the Crown Prince at recreational periods at
15
Mrs. Vining's home and occasional meals taken together

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
will be part of the progrem.
Exact details eonserning
these matters, however, will be deeided after the arrival
of Mps. Vining and with censideretion given te her ideas
on thesemttors.
Mrs. Vining should be informed that a British
educator, Mr. Blythe, and several Japanese sutors will
participate in the education of the Crown Prince, and she
may expect to coordinate her program with the activities
of this group.
We appreciate your interest and your cooperation
in this matter and we hope that you will not hesitate to
ask for any additional information which might be of
assistance.
Sincerely yours,
(S) D. R. Nugent
D. R. NUGENT
Lt. Col., USMC
Chief, C I & E Section

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
STANDARD PORM NO.
DA: August 23,1946
To : A-B - Miss CurranAuc 26 11 55 AM 46
9TB
Rom : ADO -'Mr. Bowles
OFFICE OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
STATE DEPARTMENT
sU: Attached Letters
4-B
In accordance with the letter to
Dr. Stoddard about Mrs/ Vining's appoint-
ment as tutor, I would suggest that it
would not be inapproprlate for A-B to
send the attached letters to Major Sim-
mons of the Civil Affairs Division, who
will be responsible for a number of the
details connected with Mrs. Vining's de-
894.001/8-1646
parture. This might save a few days in
getting Mrs. Vining under way,
15
ADO:GTBowles:mbv
8/23/46

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
GONFIDENTIAL IN RMATION
Mr. Gor Bowles
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS
URBANA. ILLINOIS
Angst 10, 1046
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Mrs. Elisabeth Gray Vining
ox 281
New London, New Hampshire
Dear Mrs. Vining:
I am glad to have your note of August 7.
The uneoded portion of the oable whieh I
received from the Commander in Chief AFpAC reads:
•IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD HAS DECIDED ON VINING HEPEAT
VINING. MAKING NECESSARY PREPARATIONS THIS END.
REQUEST INFORMATION SOONEST ON VINING AGGEPTANCE.
LETTER FOLLOWS AIRMAIL.
The cable was received here August 6. After talking to
you on the telephone, I cabled General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander Aliied Powers, Tokyo, as follows:
"ELIZABETH GRAY VINING ACCEPTS. HER ADDREBS
NEW LONDON NEW HAMPSHIRE UNTIL SEPTEMBER 1.
AIRMAIL FOLLOWS."
I am now sending an airmall letter of confirmation with
address and vital data. Also, I am informing the State
Department although I expect they have the messages.
I feel that this is a mppy oulzination of the
firet phase of this dramatio assignment, and I have
every oonfidenee in your ability to earry through in a
devoted and distinguiahed manner. As I said over the
telophone there will be some publioity attaohed to all
this, but I believe it will be sympathetie and restrained.
In any oase, the first break must come from Tokyo.
With greetings and best wishes, I am
Sincerely yours,
George D. Stoddard
President
Airmail

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OFATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Apr11 7, 1947
Mr. Conger
Attached are geveral mis-
cellaneous papers on my recent
efforts to obtain transportation
for Dr. Rhee and secretary back
to Korea. Since he has left, it
is requested that these be filed.
W.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.94)
Office Memorandum
ULTFED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO
A-H, Mr. Cameron
GENERDURLUGING
DATE: Apr1l 2,
1947.
FROM : FE, Mr. Penfield
SUJECT:
Dr. Rhee's Application to the State Department for ATC
Priority
A-H 201 Phee,
In order that the record may be complete the fol-
lowing is the story regarding Dr. Rhee's application
xR
to the State Department for ATC priority:
895.01
On March 4 Dr. Rhee made application through the
regular Department channels for priority for himself
and secretary for travel from San Francisco to Nanking.
In response to a request from the Transportation Sec-
tion, FE on March 6 informed that section that we did
not consider Dr. Rhee's proposed travel to be in the
national interest. On March 7 Dr. Rhee was informed
by the Transportation Section that, in view of the
demands on Atc travel facilities, priorities for
private civilian travelers could be granted only 1n
cases where the national interest was involved, that
his travel was not considered to be in the national
interest, and that he might, therefore, wish to apply
for regular commercial transportation via Pan American.
lept.
Renfild
FE:JKPeDfield:hst
894.001/
DC.9
19
Cat.
4-247

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
THE NEW YORK TIME
pri1 3, 1947
RHEE GETS PASSAGE
FOR TRIP TO KOREA
State Department Acts After
War Department Refuses
Space on Army Planes
By BERTRAM D. HULEN
Special to Tae New Yoex Tass.
WASHINGTON, April 2—The
State Department today, assisted
Dr. Syngman Rhee, leader of the
South Korean Democratic League,
to obtain passage to return to
Korea by way of China after the
War Department had told him
there was no space for him on
Air Transport Command planes.
I)r. Rhee had planned to leave
todav with an assistant by Army
plane
When this was not avail-
able he appealed to the State De-
partment, which obtained passage
for him and his assistant on a com-
mercial plane. His return to Korea
will follow closely upon that of
Lieut. Gen. John R. Hodge, the
American military commander in
southern Korea, who has conduct-
ed consultations here on Korean
policy in recent weeks.
Dr. Rhee has attacked the Amer-
can administration in Korea,
charged that General Hodge had
favored Leftists, and demanded
that both American and Russian
troops withdraw so that an inde-
pendent Korea could be established.
Recently he predicted that an "In-
terim Independent Government"
would be set up in Korea within
thirty to sixty days and that a
civilian high commissioner would
repdace our military governor.
A vigorous leader in Korean
politics and an anti-Communist.
Dr. Rhee has been here for sorne
time, expressing views often criti-
cal of the United States. However.
the Stato Department decided to
interpose no objection to his re-
turn to horea.
The indications
were that the War Department
felt differently. No one would
comment specifically on the ap-
parent divergence of views be.
tween the two departmente.
Dr. Rhee said that he had as
surances from the War Depart-
ment when he came to this coun-
try that passage would be pro-
vided for his return to Korea at
any time. However, he found early
this weck that ATC pasaage was
rot and would not be available
He then appealed to the State TDe.
partment, where officials at a high
level decided to facilitate his re-
turn.
This represented something of a
change of position from last week
when the War Department took
up the matter at & medium lavel
with the State Department and
was told no objection would be
interposed if the Army felt that
Dr. Rhee should not be accom-
modsted with pansage space. How-
aver, the matter did not reach the
top level of State Department
officiais at that tUme, it was naid
After the State Department had
obtatned the commercial passage.
Howard C. Petersen, Assstant
Secretary of War, issued the fol-
lowing statement:
"Dr. Rhee is  prominent Korean
cllizen wrhn hae been here on »
mission of his own undertaking. In
the judgment of the War Depart-
ment there wes not mufficient
urgency about his return to Korea
to warrant the se of military
transportation
Mltary trans
portation la afforded only rarely
torn

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
Stats Department Acts Afta
War Department Refuses
Space on Army Planes
By BEETBAM D. HULEN
Spardat te Yhm Jaw Yoss Toees.
WASHINCTON. AprHI z-The
State Department today, assisted
Dr. Syngman Rbee, leader of the
South Korean Democratic League,
to obtain passage to return to
Korea by way of China after the
War Department had told him
there was no space for kim on
Air Transport Command planca.
Dr. Rhee had planned to leave
today with an assistant by Army
plane. When this was not avai-
able he appealed to the State De-
partment, which obtained passage
for him and his assistant on a com-
mercial plane. His return to Korea
will follow closely upon that of
Ligut. Gen. John R. Hodgs, the
American military commandar in
southern Korea, who has conduct-
ed consultations here on Korean
policy in recent weeks.
Dr. Rhee has attacked the Amer-
ican administration in Korea,
charged that General Hodge had
favored Leftists. and demanded
that both American and Russian
troops withdraw so that an inde-
pendent Korea could be established.
Recently he predicted that an "In-
terim Independent Government"
would be set up in Korea within
thirty to sixty days and that a
civilian high commissioner would
replace our military governor.
A vigorous leader in Korean
politics and an anti-Communist.
Dr. Rhee has been here for some
time, expressing views often criti-
cal of the United States. However,
the State Department decided to
interpose no objection to his re-
turn to Korea. The indications
were that the War Department
felt differently. No one would
comment specifically on the ap-
parent divergence of views be-
tween the two departments.
Dr. Rhee said that he had as-
surances from the War Depart-
ment when he came to this coun-
try that paasage would be pro-
vided for his return to Korea at
any time. However, he found early
this week that ATC passage was
not and would not be available.
He then appealed to the State De-
partment, where officials at a high
level decided to facilitate his re-
turn.
This represented something of a
change of position from last week
when the War Department took
up the matter at a medium leve!
with the State Department and
was told no objection would be
interposed if the Army felt that
Dr. Rhee should not be accom-
modated with passage space. How-
ever, the matter did not reach the
top leve! of State Department
officials at that time. it was maid.
Artor the State Department had
obtained the commerrial passage.
Howard C. Petersen. Assistant
Secretary of War, issued the fol-
lowing statement:
"Dr. Rhee is a prominent Korean
citizen who has been here on a
mission of his own undertaking. In
the judgment of the War Depart-
ment there was not sufficient
urgency about his return to Korea
to warrant the use of military
transportation.
Military trans
portation is afforded only rarely
for non-United States Govern-
mental use and only under urgent
condition. Moreover. when com
mercial facilities are available it is
War Department policy not to sup
ply military transportation.
I understand that Dr. Rhee is
not returning directly to Korea but
is first going to China. I am not
aware of the nature of his business
in China nor do I have any know!-
edge of War Department interest
in it. Commercial transportation
elther by boat or commercial air-
plane is available for this trip.
"I understand that it is Dr.
Rhea's present intention to return
by avallable commercial air trans-
wortation The initini approvel of
military transportation for Dr.
Rhee was erroneously given. In-
kmmuch as it was contray to our
volicy in much mattars. I revokat it
hen it came to my attention."

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.89)
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Grous
Pma/rarep/ne Div
Lt Celomol Dopw/2ass
1 App11 1969
278
Stale Wirl
Sasmst: Retura of Syagman Rhee te Keree by Geverament Tramepertation
BUST BE
1. During General Hedge's visit to the Umited States frem Keree
the puestieu of the pessible return of Syugean Thee to the Far set by
Gevermmt airplaae was diseussed. General Hodge stated  several
cocasiens and quite emphatically that it would be extremely mfertemate
if Symgmm Rhee were to receive Govermment air traneportatiem beek to
Keree and that it weuld eentain pelisioal implications, and be a mtter
of fase mongst Koreans, out of all proportion to the actual favor
granted hee by giving him mueh transpertatien. General Hedge made this
FW
statement te me and to others in wy precemce. Amongst those te whem
this statement was made wore Mr. Williams of the State Departmemt, and
4
Celomel Munsem, then of the Intelligenee Divisiom, now in the Offiee of
the Assistant Seeretary of Nar. On the basis on these statememte by
Gemeral Hodge, I ealled Lt Colonel Muir of the Pacific Seotiem and re
quested him to take suoh steps as he thought were required to asmure that
ne air priority would be given to Dootor Rhee. I also called Colonel
MeCarthy of Mr. Petersen's ofrice, who assured me that Mr. Petersem's
f
offioe did mot authorise air transportation for Dootor Rhee.
1
2. During the aftermoon of Maroh s1 it was brought to y attention
5
that Dooter Rhee had reeeived an eir priority and mas saheduled te leave
1
Mashingtom on an Air Tramepert Command plane on the morning of 1 April.
Lt Colonel Muir mas informed and steps were taken to soe that Syngman
CONFIDENTIAL FILE
Rhee's air priority was canoelled. I understand chat Lt Colonel Bagstad
of the Operatione Group of PeO madu arrangoments with Lt Colonel Veath
(or scme similar name) of ATC to canoel the reservation. Celgmel Veath
assured Colomol Bagsted, and lator mssured ws that he would see to is
personally that Dostor Khes did not leave by plane on the morning of
1 April.
A

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAI
. Iavestigatien n the aftere of Mar al indicssed ts
beeter Mhee had obtained his reservatien and prierity threngh Majer
simens of ad. I alled Mjer sins whe said that be  ausrity
for Dester Khse's transportation frem the Orrioe of the Assistemt
Seeretary of Far. On olose questioning Majer Simens admitted thet he
had nething in writing from the Offie of the Aasistast Seeretary of War,
aad that he had not personally ohecked with the Ofriee of the Assistemt
Seeretary of mar but had operated on the basis of a nete which his
stenegrapher had left on his desk whioh he had oonetrued as autherity
from Colomel MeCarthy of the Offioe of the Assistant Seeretary of War
to get in teush with a Dostor Oliver regarding air transportation fer
Eymgman Khee. Simmens maid that he called Deoter Oliver and arranged fer
the tranmporsatien of Doeter Rhee and his seeretary to Korea by Atc plame.
It is underatood that Dootor Rhee ms even granted a 85 pound overmeight
alloanee.
6. A call to Colonel Mmson in the Offioe of the Arsistamt Seeretary
of ar rovealed that no one in the Assisteat Beoretery of mar's Offiee
from Mr. Petersem on domm had authorized air transpertation for Symgmem
Rhee. Colensl Mumson stated that he had disoussed this with Majer Suhimkus,
whe is nis Exeeutive and formerly Colenel MoCarthy's Eseeutive in the
Offioe of the Assistant Seeretary of Mar. It appears that Deeter Oliver
oalled Mr. Patersen's ofriee and in the absenee of Colomel MoCarthy, asked
Major Sahimkus to authorise air transportation for Syngman Rhee te Koroa.
It is understoad that Major Sohimkus informed Doctor Oliver tet Mr.
Potersen's office did not handle matters of this sort and referred him
to the appropriato ofrice in the Civil Affaire Division.
5. Later in the afternoon it was determined that Arc had not informed
Dootor Rhee that his transportation had been cancelled, and claimed that
they had no way of gotting in touoh with him. It then being appreximately
la00, and most Wur Department ofrioee being olosed for the day, I dooided
that in order to prevant mbarreeament at the air field on the morning of
!HIAI

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
1 April, and in all fairmess to Deoter hos, that àa stsald be irfesmed
that his trenspartatien had beem caseelled. I salled his reem at the
Carltem Metel, mmé informed his sesratary. I gave me reasem fr tme
eensellatiem, but on her request I pave her my meme ad affiss tolaphame
mamber. At about zo00 1 recoived & call at my heme frem former Lt Colemsl
Presten Geedfellew, who has had a very slese, and somewhat questieeable.
relationship with Dooter Rhee. Colonel Goedrellow inquired why the
transportation had been cancelled. I also gave him & nen-eemmittal answer
ad told him that Dootor Rhee would be informed of the details im the
oraing.
6. Telophone disoussion with Colonel Chard, Exeoutive of CAD, 
the morming of i April indioated that CAD intended to tell Deeter Mhee
that his transportation had been oancelled because of traffss diffioulties.
I informed Colonel Chard that it was my opinion that suah an exeuse sould
be easily refuted and that it should be based on polioy consideratiens.
Celonel Chard then stated that ChD would inform Dootor Rhee of any reaeem
whioh Pao wanted but that Ct must have derinite polioy guidanoe m the
rooord from PeO.
7. Colonel Cambs, Deputy of Php Group, agroed with me that Deotor
Rhee should not be given the exouse of a trarfic diffioulty, but that it
should be based an a poliey basis. It was Colemel Cemb's viow that the
policy whien has been adhered to, and whioh ahould be referred to in this
case, is that foreign politicians sanmot be given Mar Department tremmpert
ation without polioy guidance from the State Department. In this eemmoetiom
I telophoned Hr. Ponfield of the State Department who agreed that this
was apparently the policy whiah the Steto and Nar Departmonts had adhered
to in this regard in the past, and that it would o well to foralise
this poliay both with regard to the case of Dootor Rhee end similar future
cases. Mr. Penfield and I agreed that the pdiey agemeies of the War and
State Dopartments had no desire to prevent Dootor Khee from returning to
Korea, but that in view of the faot that ho has no offioial positlom, and
CONFIDENI
-  

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
that his ease appeared te kave me special urgomey, that mar peparteemt
tramspertatien should mot be tied up by sransing him speetal faver of
alr tremepertasien to Koree. This insormatiom wme givem to Goiosel Gharé.
a. At about this time I roceived a call frem Gelemel Bekmlyer,
Exsoutive to the Chief of air staff, whe said he had ressived a call frem
Destor Cliver regarding the camcellation of Dooter hee's tramsportatiem.
I infermed Colomel Sahulyer of the facte in the oass and suggested that
he have Dootor Oliver call Colonel Chard. A subeequent eall frem Major
Simmons indicated that Colonel Chard had referred Doster Oliver te Majer
Simmans and that ajor Simmons had informed Docter Oliver of the poliey
requiring eoordination with the Stato Department, that the state Deparmet
had not been soordinated with prier to the time the transportation had
been approved, and that the state and Far Departaents now agree that Doster
Thee's return to Koree was mot a matter of sufficient izportanee to tie
u Governaemt air transportasion. It is understood that Dooter Oliver
will call the State Departmont on this mmtter.
CONTIDENTIAL
-  -

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Apr11 1. 1947
The transportation for Dr. Rhee was set up without
proper clearance or coordination with the appropriate
sections within the War Department. It 1e War Department
policy not to give clearance in cases ofthis nature with-
out priority clearance with the State Department.
The War
and State Departments did not feelthat an expeption should
only Service transportatioh to Koreans who are not acting in

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
BEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNCATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAP
2944
FROT
OFFICE
LO. ÉO!
pATED December 11, 1947
U.CLAS.IFILD
RECD.
Dec. 17, 1947
10:02 AM
3
Sucretury of taie
ACTION EUR
INPO
OC./R
2531, 18001001, 2047
A-A
?E
Follouin alostors and alngwere i rggard to
OCD
croy worehip n Japan axel anged in ouse of Commons
CIA
on beuabor 10 29e"
FC
h. Skori mior -Lodge (Labor M.P. for Budford)
ashcd the Sarutery of suate for Fopeian Affairs
Vhiher ho I: wepe that the re is eviderce in Japan
of  mo/are1. o ro-introcuce Enperor worship: and
whother he will inatruot the British representative
on the Far-Ens orr: Corlission to pposs for immediate
action to prohilit activities of thhis ature.
Lr. Icvoi! (linistor of State): "Since the
newer to the  irst pars of the Juention is, No,
sir,' tho eaco d rart would not seon to arise."
Mr Skorf ingtor-Lodge: "Is not m right hon.
Friend awaro t at whon irohito wert to liroshima
recently he va. received with wild aoc lanution by
ut least 5c,0) Japanesa citizens? (s not that 
fost undssireble devalopment?"
Mr. Mole1!: "I think there is a confusion of
thou ht here. Leithar we or anyone el.se can prevent
subjacts payin: what tribute they think fitting to
their crowned isad. It is, however, inportant that
thers should bo no rocurrence of mperor worship in
Japaa, and trere is an ordinance, a regulation, to
take cazo of that."
OF
FILED
"Lould not the i nt hon. Centloman "gree that thian
can only be haialed by long-teru educailon, and thab
it is nc ocd ylng to paas Bills or lawa, or en-
forcing theso hings on a short-term bosis?"
王
DOUGLAS

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.90)
OUT
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS CHARGED
OFFICE AND PERSON
DATE OF CHAPAD T
(Subject, file number or title, type of document, and date,
TO WHOM CHARGED
security classification, number of items, ete.)
heup. 771
4D
4/2/55
frownakng
894.001/5-3147
goodwin
DS-1033 (3-2-54)
USE OTHER SIDE-CANCEL CHARGE OUT WHEN FILES RETURNED
16—70099-1
GPO

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
2ole
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, October 29, 1948.
PERSONAL and/TOP SECRET
Dear Bennie:
Further to my letter of October 26, 1948, I have now had an inter-
esting conversation with General MacArthur on the subject of possible
abdication by the Emperor. When I raised the subject, General MacArthur
immediately stated that he was fully alive to the possibility that the
Emperor might perhaps contemplate abdication, or under strong emotional
strain arising out of the sentences in the major War Crimes Trial,
perhaps even consider committing suicide. I agreed that these are pos-
sibilities, especially as the Emperor is both Oriental and Japanese.
The General said that in his opinion the judgment of the major War
Crimes Trial is like blowing up a ton of dynamite--one cannot possibly
foresee what might happen. He feels that the emotional effect of the
sentences upon the Emperor might perhaps temporarily unbalance the
latter's judgment, with the result that either of the two mentioned pos-
sibilities could happen. On the other hand, however, he said that he
has never had even the slightest indication that the Emperor was contem-
plating abdication, and that comments which have appeared to this effect
in the press and elsewhere are fabrications and have no substance whatso-
ever. The General feels that abdication by the Emperor would be politi-
cally disastrous and that he would therefore do what he can to stop it.
He said that the Emperor intends to call upon him immediately after
the announcement of the major War Crimes judgment and at that time,
should the subject be raised, he would tell him that any thought of
0-2948
abdication is not only ridiculous and preposterous, but that it would
result in a major disservice to the Japanese people.
I told General MacArthur that I was very glad to have his views as
they agree entirely with my own, and that I furthermore feel that they
are also the views of the United States Government. The General said
that there could be no other views, and agreed with me that abdication
by the Emperor would play directly into the hands of communism and chaos
in Japan.
In view of the source and extremely delicate nature of this letter,
I hope that you will keep its contents within the smallest possible circle.
I will, of course, keep you advised of any developments.
Sincerely yours,
Bril
W.J.Sebald
H. Merrell Benninghoff, Esquire,
DeputyDirector, Office of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
Beptember 17,194
Ia reply refer to
JA 894.001 H1roh1to/9-745
My dear Mrs. Ross:
894.001 HiR0H1T0/9-745
This is to ecknowledge the reeeipt of your letter
of September 7, 1945, in whiah you ask when Hirohito
made the visit to the United States that is desoribed
in the newspaper olipping which you enolosed with your
letter.
Hirohito has never visited the United States.
However, two of his brothers, Princes Chiehibu and
Takamatsu,have visited this country and it is possible
that the author of the story contained in your nows-
paper clipping assumed that one of these brothers was
the present Japanese Emperor.
Sincerely yours,
DCR NE Onit
For the
Acting Seeretary of State:
Re m
ERD
Cat
Dist.
Erle R. Diokover
Chief
SEF 17 1945P.M.
OR
Division of Japanese Affairs
Mrs. E. E. Ross,
Harpers Ferry,
West Virginia.
JA:HLory:mls
、あ
9-14-45

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
PAGE EIGHT
HIROHITO POSED
AT HARPERS FERRY
Mrs. John T. Shiriey, Now Resid.
Ing In Cumberland, Md., Took
Mikado's Picture 20 Years
Ago
Today Emperor Hirohito of Ja-
pan is taking his orders from Gen-
eral MacArthur, but not many are
aware that this same Hirohito
stopped in Harpers Ferry while on
his way from the Pacific Coast
two decades ago, when the royal
Japanese took a few minutes to
step down from his passenger
coach and look around.
Just as he descended from the
B. and O. Railroad coach, Mrs.
John T. Shirley, 809 Gephart Drive
Cumberland, Md., who at that tim
was a resident of Harpers Ferr
was watching with her sister. T

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
camora and
for a snapshot
ose prince.
Accompanying guards and mem-
bers of Hirohito's retinue tried to
"shoo" them off but the future
Mikado of Japan said: "Let the
ladies take a picture." He spoke
in fairly good English, according
to Mrs. Shirley.
Hirohito was dressed in a light
summer suit and wore a high col
lar and bow tie. As is typical of
the average Japanese he wore thick
rimmed glasses. Mns. Shirley said
she believed that \the then crown
prince was in his late 'teens or ear-
ly twenties. He seemed triendly
and very democratic, she added,
much more so than some of those
surrounding him. After posing for
the photograph (reproduced above)
he walked along the station pave-
ment and looked about the histo-
ric gorge where John Brown, the
famous abolitionist and his follow-
ers seized the government arsenal
only to be captured by Robert E.
Lee who later led the South in
the Civil War between the States.
Hirohito was presented with a
basket of flowers by the Red Cross
at Harpers Ferry and seemed much
interested in the uniforms worn
by women Red Cross workers who
aided American soldiers in World
War I who travelled through Har-
pers Ferry on the B. and O. Rail-
road.
Mrs. Shirley later moved to Cum-
berland with her husband whom
she married after the foregoing
events. They came here when Mr.
Shirley was transferred by the B.
and O. Railroad. In addition to the
photograph published above, Mrs.
Shirley and her sister obtained
several others.
Also Stopped Here
It is reported that the imperial
train also stopped in Martinsburg
as well as in Cumberland, Md.
A recent issue of the Cumber-
land Times çarries a story rela-
tive to thte emperår's tour, and re-
prints the photograph taken by
Mrs. Shirley at Harpers Ferry.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.85)
万
Mra. E. E. Ro
POCEIVED
Harpere Ferry
CVISIONC
SERVICES
West Virginia
DC/R
Sep7. 7,1945
The ae ,
Sentembe
8
wesning ta, D.C.
Dear Sies:
Q
The euciossd chipping appearnd
O
6
R
10
We would like. rory nuuch, hece,
H
to knos jest whow thes repocted
T
0
riser oHirohits took place, and
594.001 Herahita
you. would you be so kind as
tell nee whewl The now- Fncrter of
C
Trpan risited the Y.5.?
Sin ceveny yours,
1969
口
l
(Mes. E. E,; Mariane Tosa
9.745

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
6
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SEGRET
-TOP SEORET
CRYPTOGRAPHIC SECURITY DOES NOT APPLY. HANDLE AS TOP SECH
CORRESPONDENCE PER PARAS 44 g and 53 a, AR 380-5.
Joint Chiefs of Staff CSP
894.001
2405 WD ext 77500 Co1 C R
Peck Inf
29 November 1945
CTNCAFPAC Advance, Tokyo Jupan
CINCAFPAC Command, Man1ia PI
HIROHITO
Mumber: WARX 85811
TOPSEC to MacArthur from the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
1. The following, received from the State, War and Nevy
Dopartments, refers to the person of Hirohito, and not to
the Emporor Institucion es such.
/11-2945
2. As you know, the subjoct of whether Hirohito is eventual-
ly to be tried as a War Criminal is of great interest to the
United States. The United States Government's position is
that Hirohito ia not immune from arrest, trial and punishment
as a Wer Criminal. It may be assumed that when it appears
that the ocoupetion can proceed satisfactorily without him,
the question of is triel will be raised. It may also be
assumed that if such e propocal will serve a purpose, it may
be raised by one or more of our Allies.
3. It therefore eppears clear that in any event we must not
delay collecting the evidence, working alvays under adeguate
security arrangoments. This evidence would eppear necessary
whether he is eventually to be tried or not, since any de-
cision not to try him should be made in the light of all
availeble facts.
4. The effect which decision in this matter may have on the
accomplishment of your miscion is fully appreciated here.
Hence your comments on any aspect of the question will be
most welcome.
FILED
DECLASSIFIED
3
E.O.11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
CM-OUT-85811
(Nov 45)
NND 750162
1948
By CNARS, Date
TOP SEORET
APR 2 4 1975
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
TOP
SEGRET
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOP SEGRET
Number: WARX 85811
Page 2
29 November 1945
5. Meanwhile, it is desired that the assembly of evidence
be conducted with strict security safeguards to avoid dis-
closure either of the evidence itself or of the fact that
such evidence is being assembled. The evidence will then
be transmitted to the Joint Chiefs of Staff for submission
to the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee. In due course
you will be asked to recommend as to conditions which may
warrant or permit proceedings against Hirohito as a War
Criminal.
End
ORIGINATOR:
JC/S
INFORMATION:
Adm Leahy; Gen Arnold; Gen Hull; Gen Bissell;
Adm King; C of S
CM-OUT-85811
(NOVv 45)
DTG: 291522Z mh
TOP SEGRET
8
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.87)
32
9
FE
SERVICE
OF THE
JA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OPPICE C S ITED STATES POLITIGAL ADVIS
Tokye. Japaa, Jaamery , 1946.
File
CONEIDENTIAL
3.4-16
0。180
SUBJBOT: The Status and Future of the Emperer.
The Honorable
ho ba at
894.001 HIR0HITA/1-746
AS
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
S1r1
I have the henor to en lose copy of y self-explanatory
memorandun of identic date to the Supreme Commander and Chief of
Staff in regard to the status and future of the Bmporor. It will
be noted that the conclusions which I bave drawn are dependent upon
which of two goneral courses, commented upon in the memorandum,
United States policy is to pursue in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
George Atcheson, Jr.
μum
Enclosure:
Memorandun to Supreme
Commander and Chief of Staff
dated January 7, 1946.
1
C
Original and hosto to Dopartment.
E
800.1
GatchesonJrivs
CONFIDLNTIAL
A bobany
5.804
4ey 1012
Riotye n. gidom- Rm/s
y
CECTO
CONEIDENTN

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
33
Enclosure
180 dated January 8, 1946,
from the Unite
wáger, Tokyo, Japan, on
the subject: The St
the Emperor.
OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
Tokyo, Japan, January 7, 1946.
TOP SKCRIT
MEMORANDUM FOR: The Supreme Commander and Chief of Staff.
It is not unlikely that some member, or members,
of the Far Eastern Commission will raise the question of
the status and the future of the Emperor during the
Commission's visit here. I accordingly submit comment on
the subject as follows:
While SWNCC 55/6, October 26, provides that, pending
development of an agreed policy toward the Emperor insti-
tution, HIROHITO is not immune from trial as a war criminal,
it is also mentioned that the treatment of HIROHITo as a
war criminal cannot be divorced from our overall objective
in Japan. To my mind, the question is one which, as a
practical matter, must take into account not only our over-
all objective here but also the strength of our determina-
tion, as evidenced by specific undertakings, to accomplish
that objective over the extended time it wiil undoubtedly
require.
It seems to me that the courses for the future which
are open to the United States (discounting unanticipated
drastic modification or restraint of our policy by the
British, Soviets and Chinese) depend to large extent upon
how much further effort we are prepared to put forth in and
with regard to this country. If we are prepared to maintain
military forces in and around Japan sufficient to ensure our
control for a considerable number of years, if we are pre-
pared to ensure that Japan (in the short run through special
import arrangements and over the long run through the develop-
ment of a well-rounded manufacturing capacity and enjoyment
of reasonable foreign trading opportunities) shall be able
to maintain a standard of living conducive to the develop-
ment of democratic tendencies, if we are prepared (should
that be necessary) to increase effective forces in Japan to
take care of any contingency that might arise--then we can
adopt a strongly aggressive political policy, try the
Emperor as a war criminal and encourage the complete aboli-
tion of the Emperor system. If we are not so prepared, we
may do what we can and continue to proceed cautiously to
give the Japanese the framework within which they may work
out their own destiny wi th the aid, if they desire it, of
the stabilizing force of the Throne.
Decision hinges on the choice between these two,
admittedly oversimplified alternatives. The first is to
my mind the ideal. I believe (and some of our Allies may
insist

=== Page 62 === (confidence 1.00)
34
insist) that the Emperor should be tried as a war oriminal
if at all feasible; even some Japanese argue that if he had
sufficient power to stop the war, he had the authority to
prevent it. And I have not altered my opinion that the
Emperor system must disappear if Japan is ever to be really
democratic.
But a number of circumstances seem to make the second,
more cautious policy the best for us to follow at this time.
In this situation, in which we must continue to
utilize the Japanese Government for the administration of
the country and the carrying out of reforms, there is no
question that the Emperor is most useful. He is obeyed by
officials and the people at large. He manifests sincerity in
wishing to aid in the accomplishment of our general objectives
and is seemingly more anxious to be democratic than some of
the people around him. His New Year's Rescript was en-
couraging.
The second factor making continuation of a cautious
policy advisable for the present is that there is as yet
no certain indication on the part of the United States or
our Allies of a determination to stick with the Japanese
problem, with all the burdens and obligations that this will
entail, until it is completely solved. Until we can be cer-
tain that that determination exists and will endure, it
would seem unwise to take strong steps striking directly at
the Emperor institution.
Adoption of a "cautious" policy should not, however,
mean passivity. I believe it is important that we work for
a satisfactory liberal revision of the Cons titution in the
near future. Under the present Government it does not seem
likely that there will be a purely voluntary revision which
will provide a substantial and enduring framework of a demo-
cratic government. The Government plan, with which the
Progressive and Liberal Parties are in agreement, is to
leave intact in principle the first four Articles of the
present Constitution which form the basis for the Japanese
philosophy of the State: reign and government "by a line of
Emperors unbroken through ages eternal"; the sacredness and
inviolability of the Emperor who is the head of the Empire
and "combines in himself the rights of sovereignty". These
are the foundation stones and the pillars of the "divine"
Japanese State with which we have been at war. Excluding
the Communists, only the Social Democrats, who are still a
minority party, are willing to consider the Emperor and
sovereignty in something approximating our terms.
Our adoption of this policy would, on the other hand,
preclude--certainly for the reasonably near future--any trial
of the Emperor as a war criminal. There is no doubt that at
present the overwhelming majority of the Japanese people wish
to retain the Emperor system in some form. In its simplest
terms, the Japanese regard the relationship as that of a
father to the family. It is a sentimental, deeply-rooted
emotional feeling. Trial of the Emperor would cause such
a wrench that most people who know Japan believe that it
would be impossible to find suitable men to maintain the
Government.
We have

=== Page 63 === (confidence 1.00)
35
We have been reliably informed that the Emperor
is considering abdication at some time in the not distant
future. We can assume that an important element in any
such planning is the fear, stimulated by foreign oriticism
that he may be named a war criminal. Such abdication would
not necessarily produce the chaos which arrest and trial
might bring--a regency is provided for by the Constitution.
It is to be hoped, of course, that he will not abdicate
before the Constitution is appropriately revised in order
that revision may be effected according to legal provisions
therefor contained in the Constitution as it now stands.
And abdication after appropriate revision would ot likely
cause as serious reperoussions as otherwise might be the
case. One of these repercussions would be advantageous to
the eventual democratization of Japan but would be of
immediate concern to the "cautious polioy" if that should
be adopted--weakening of the Throne and elimimtion of the
leader to whom the Japanese are accustomed and to whom,
strangely enough, most of the common people are grateful
for bringing them peace. Thus, if we decide to continue
to use the Emperor indefinitely, he should be given some
indication that we regard his continuing on the Throne
desirable for the carrying out of the surrender conditions.
George Atcheson, Jr.
Minister
U.S. Political Adviser

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
1468ck
36
DATE:
January 30, 1946
To : U - Mr. Acheson
FROM : FE - Mr. Vincent
suec: General MacArthur's Views on Trial of
Hirohito as War Criminal.
Attached is a telegram giving General
MacArthur's views on trial of Hirohito as
a war criminal. They are negative. If you
don't wish to read the whole telegram I
have marked pertinent passages.
Attached also is a telegram (an old
one of last November) which prompted MacArthur's
expression of views.
JcV
Muin Enar
Pleart rotum tilegaams
to 
FE:JCVinecnt:ead

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
1. Please treat this urth the eitmost cave.- dr
attantion o mer Bynen8 mr
woithout debay.
From:
CINCAFPAC Adv Pokyo Japan
To:
attached
4.001 HIROHITO/1-2546
Nr:
25 January 1946
From CINCAFPAC Adv  Arthu to WARCOS Joint Chiefs
of Star1 reference WX 93871 CA 57235.
Since receipt of WX 85811 investigation has been
ondueted here under the limitations set forth with reference
Lo possible criminal actions against the emperor. No specific
and tnngible evidence has been uncovered with regard to his
oxaet activities which might connect him in varying degree
vith the politicel decieions of the Japanese Empire during
the lant decade. I have gained the definite impression
from as complete e research as was possible to me that his
connection with affairs of state up to the time of the end of
the war vas largely ministerial and automatically responsive
to the advice of his counsellors. There are those who
believe that even hihe positive iddas it would have been guite
possible that any errort on his part to thwart the current
of public opinion controlled and represented by the dominant
military clique would have placed him in actual jeopardy.
If he 1s to be tried great changes must be made in
occupational plans and due preparation therefore should be
accomplished in preparedness before actual action is initiated.
Hi- indictment will unguestionably cause a tremendous con-
vulsion smong the Japanese people, the repercussions of
vhich cannot be over estimated. He is a symbol which unites
a1l Japanese. Destroy him and the nation will disintegrate.
CM-IN-5885
(26 Jan 46)
MAY 3 - 1948
FILED
60
SEORET
DECLASSIFIED
FILE
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) gr(E)
8
NND750162
By C&NARS, Date APR 2 4 1975
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
38
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET-TOT
PRIORITY
Page 2
From:
CINC AFPAC Adv Tokyo Japan
Nr:
CA 57235
25 January 1946
Practicnlly all Japanese venerete him as the social head
of the state and believe rightly or wrongly that the Potsdam
Agreements were intended to maintain him as the Emperor of.
o can.They will regard allied action ****
betrayal
i thei hiatory and the hatreds and resentments engendered
 hi thought vill unguestionably last for all measurable
tine
Vendetta for revenge will thereby be initiated
vher lo may vell not be complete for centuries if ever.
The vhole of Jepen can be expected, in my opinion,
 the action either by passive or semi-active means.
They irnrmed and therefore represent no special menace
ed and equipped troops; but is is not inconceivable
ornment gencies will break down, the civilized
xcrlc a vill largely cease, and a condition of underground
hao ens disorder amounting to guerille warfare in the
m oua and ou lying regions result. I believe all
iotrodueing modern democratic methods would disappear
n when military control finally ceased some form of
ragimontetion probably along communistic line
o from the mutilated messes. This would represent
ttreiy dirferent problem of occupation from those
 renlent. It would be absolutely essential to greatly
in esse the occupational forces. It is quite possible that
 mininum of a miilion troops would be required which would
i ve to bo maintained for an indefinite number of years.
In cdacion a complete civil service might have to be re-
oreited ond imported, possibly running into a size of
veral hundred thousand. An overseas supply service
inion   n conditions wonld huve to be set up on practically
 var b sis embracing an ludigent civil population of many
million Many other ment drastic results which I will not
a hempt o digeuas phould be anticipated and complete new
CM-IN-5885
(26 Jan 46)
SEGRET
8
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
39
WAR DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE CENTER
INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
-SEGRET-TOT
PRIORITY
Page 3
From:
CINCAFPAC Adv TokyO Japan
Nr:
CA 57235
25 January 1946
plans should be carefully prepared by the Allied powers
along all lines to meet the new eventualities. Most careful
consideration as to the national forces composing the ocoupe
tion force is essential. Certainly the Us should not be called
upon to bear unilaterally the terrific burden of man power,
economics, and other resultant responsibilities.
The decision as to whether the emperor should be
tried as a wer criminal involves a policy determination
upon such a high level that I would not feel it appropriate
fo, me to make a recommendation; but if the decision by
the heads of states is in the affirmitive, I recommed the
above measures as imperative.
End
AOTION:
JC/s
INFO
Adm Leahy, Gen Arnold, Gen Hull, Gen Vandenberg,
Adm Nimitz, C of S
CM-IN-5885
(26 Jan 46)
DTG 251345Z vp
SEGRET
8
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
/NO
9
DIVISION OF
94
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No actio
FEB F11948
FROM
1779
LOLDOL
D.P KTNENI OF SIATF
DATID February 5, 1948
UICIASSIFDED
RECD.
894.00
Feb. 71, 1948
3
8:14 AM
3
Secretary of State,
nte
ACTION FE
INFO
Washington
15
DC/R
pie.
A-A
A-313, February 5, 1948
A-B
HiROHiTO/2-548
SA/M
Following editorial on sub joct of Japanose Emperor
LE
appeared in Pebruary 4, 1948, edition of Manchester Guardian
EUR
OCD
"On grounds of expedioncy alone the case for
CIA
leaving Emperor Wirohito on the throne of Japan in
FC
1945 was ununswerable. If the Allies had mado his
OIE
romoval a condition of surronder tho Japanese Army
PA
would have refusod to lay down its arms (as some
isolated detachments did) and would have fought on to
tho end at the cost of many thousand lives. There 1s
no doubt too that his rotoi tion made the whole task of
occupation and controi far easier thar. it would other-
wise have boen.
Lut in order to quietan criticism at
tho time the American authoritlos unwisely let it be
suggested that Hirohito was ent ir ly innocent, a help-
less victim of the militarists, whoco plans he did not
even know.
The evidence brought forward at the various
war trials in Japan has proved that this was not true:
the Enperor lo ew all the military plane, inoluding those
for the attack on Pearl Harbour. This revelation has
causod a natural reaction anon many Americans, who
fael that they wero deccived on this matter and that
Rirohito should have been deposed and aven tried es a
war criminal. Goneral iucArthur 's polioy of training
the Emperor as a democratic aud constitutional monaroh,
3
E
which has long beer. oriticised by Austrulia, China, and
x
Russia, has thorofore come under fire in the United
2
4 1548
States--thcu i the same attacks ay have made lirohito
more amenable to discipline.
The dai gers of proserving
tho lmporiel throre are roal orouch, but they jave
little or nothim: te do with mirolhite's cullt or inno-
工
conce, (In any cuse thoro was nothin: in Lie education,
charaoter on corstitution
PERMANENT REGORD COPThis copy mus b runed to DC/R  s     kn.
torlera; Tojo proua y tud the

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 2.
UNCLASSTFIED
A-313
February 5, 1948
from Iondon
truth when he said, during his trial, that at the
meetinge of the Supreme War Council His Majesty was
ploased to listen : . . although not uttering a single
word.') The real issue is whether General MacArthur's
polioy will be successful or whethor the Throne will
be used to start a now imporialiet revival when the
Amerloane have gone. It is only fair to say that
reports from Japan aro not discouraging."
GALLMAN
Copy to U.S. Political
dvisor, SCAr, Tokyo
 boumright/g
2/4/48

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.90)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
1
1-1948
A
USPOLAD, Toky
ACTION: FE
Dapartment of State
INFC
DaLen!
November 18, 1948
DC,/R
Date of
mailing: November 20, 196
Rec'd:
Dec 1, 11
S.EE - FOR DEPAREC T SE CRLY
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DEC=1948
Ser ary ef state,
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
ashin goo
1
 s n i, n syiser to the peror of Jepan, ca
uron v at is re et  ay i formed me for.y privete inrorme
 he peror oup hr onlovembee 12, 1948, written to Gon
I. cihur to the etet hat lis has decid ad definitely net to abdid
nearihstandin, th ur reer imposed upon the mjer war crini helo
t I terns tional lit y T bunal or the Far nst
SEBALD
SECRET FILE
FEB
FILED
() Japan
2
JJebald:1h
1
72
PORET-FOR DEPARTTNTL CNLY
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This cepy must be returned to DC/R eentral es with notatlen ef astlen taken.
