894.0414 Judicial Branch Of Government., National Courts., Japan, Attorneys. Practice Of Law., November 22, 1935 - October 19, 1938 (File 1050)
ID: 894.0414-1050   Pages: 44   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.0414-judicial-branch-of-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.91)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 22, 1935.
NO. 1559
SUBJECT:
LAWYERS' LAW OF JAPAN (LAW NO. 53 OF THE YEAR 1933).
Gile
Division of
894.0414
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC9-1935
STATE
9350E  0 17
COMMUNIJATIONS
Department of State
the
d S
DIVISION OF
0
DEPARIMENT
Yca
NO
For Distribution-Check
111
Grade
in U S A.
For
EA ATE
RECORDING DESK
FILE
894.0414/2
O SAT
A-C/0
Honorable
the Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to enclose a translation of the
MAY 12 1936
PILED
Lawyers' Law of Japan (Law No. 53 of the year 1933)
which the Embassy seems not to have previously reported
to the Department. The law corrects a number of abuses,
but its principal interest from the American point of
view is found in the provisions of Article 2 and Article 6,
which restrict the practice of law to Japanese subjects,
except that the Minister of Justice may permit foreigners
F/FG
to practice upon assurance of reciprocity. As most
States of the Union do not permit aliens to practice law,
there

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
there would seem no possibility of American lawyers being
allowed to practice in Japan after the first of April, 1936.
The Embassy has had several conferences with the three
Americans now engaged in practice here, and at their request
has discussed the matter informally with the Foreign Office.
The lawyers concerned informed the Embassy that they have
never appeared in court in Japan. They said that there
seemed a possibility that the Regulations (which have not
yet been formulated) for putting the law into effect might
be so worded as to permit qualified foreign lawyers to
practice in a purely consulting capacity on a basis of
reciprocity. This possibility also came out in the dis-
cussions with the Foreign Office. It is too early to make
any statement as to the likelihood of such ruling or the
terms of the "reciprocity". There are, as a matter of
fact, alien lawyers in different States of the Union who
confine themselves to giving advice on matters of foreign
law and in regard to contracts drawn up for use in foreign
countries. So far as the Embassy is aware these lawyers
are permitted to carry on their practice without inter-
ference. It is probably some such practice as this that
the regulations may be drawn up to permit, if it proves
feasible under the law.
In any event, in the light of our own requirements
for lawyers, there seems to be no ground for taking up
the question formally wi th the Japanese Government.
Yours respectfully
Elain L.Strill
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated.
804.1
ELN:C

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1559 dated November 22, 1935,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
THE LAWYERS' LAW
(Law No. 53 of the Year 1933).
CHAPTER 1.
Functions and Qualifications of Lawyers.
ART. 1 It is the function of lawyers to do acts relating to
lawsuits and to carry out general legal affairs at the request
of parties concerned or other persons interested, or by virtue
of official appointment.
ART. 2
Persons fulfilling the following conditions are
qualified to be lawyers:
1.
Japanese subjects of legal age.
2.
Those who have completed practical
training as probationary lawyers for
at least one year and a half, and have
been found satisfactory upon examination.
Matters relating to practical training and examina-
tion under No. 2 of the preceding paragraph shall be regulated
by the Minister of Justice.
ART. 3. In order to become probationary lawyers, it shall be
necessary to pass prescribed examinations.
Matters relating to examination under the preceding
paragraph shall be regulated by Imperial Ordinance.
ART. 4 Persons mentioned below, the provisions of the preceding
two Articles to the contrary notwithstanding, are qualified to be
lawyers:-
1.
Those who have the qualifications of
Judges or Procurators..
2.
Those who have been President of the
Court of Administrative Litigation or
Councillors of the said Court exclusively
for not less than three years.
3.
Those who have been military or naval
judicial officers for not less than
three years.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
ART. 5
Persons mentioned below are disqualified to be lawyers:
1.
Those who have been condemned to
imprisonment or a heavier penalty.
2.
Those who have been dismissed or re-
moved from (Government or public)
office by virtue of disciplinary
punishment, those who have been ex-
pelled under this Law, or those who
have been prohibited from practicing
their profession under the Patent
Attorneys' Law or the Accoun tants'
Law, and respecting whom two years
have not elapsed since such dismissal
and/or removal from office, expulsion,
or prohibition from practice.
3. "Incompetent persons"1 or
"quasi-incompetent" persons2.
4. Bankrupts who have not yet obtained
rehabilitation.
ART. 6
Except as they come within the purview of the preceding
Article, aliens who are qualified as lawyers abroad may transact
the matters provided for in Art. 1 relative to foreigners or foreig
law, but this only with the permission of the Minister of Justice
and provided that there is guarantee (assurance) of reciprocity.
The provisions of Art. 18, par. 2, Art. 20,and Arts. 23
to 26 apply mutatis mutandis to those who have obtained permission
under the preceding paragraph.
Should he deem it necessary to do so, the Minister of
Justice may cancel (annul) the permission under par. 1.
CHAPTER 2.
ART. 7
In order to be lawyers, persons must (cause themselves
to) be registered in The Lawyers' Register.
ART. 8
The Lawyers' Register shall be kept in the Department
of Justice.
ART. 9
Persons desiring to be lawyers shall apply to the
Minister of Justice for regis tration through the Bar Association
which they propose to join.
1.
Persons who being in an habitual state of unsound mind have
been adjudged "incompetent" on application of themselves,
their spouses, etc.(CIVIL CODE Art. 7).
2.
Persons of weak mind, deaf, dumb or blind persons or spend-
thrifts who have been adjudged "quasi-incompetent" persons
on the application of themselves, their spouses, etc.
(CIVIL CODE, ArT. 11).

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ART. 10 In case a lawyer desires to. transfer from one Bar
Association to another, he shall apply to the Minister of
Justice for transfer of registration through the (new) Bar
Association which he proposes to join.
On transfer of registration being made in accordance
with the preceding paragraph, the lawyer shall at once notify
the Bar Association from which he has transferred of such
transference.
ART. 1l A lawyer who desires to give up his membership in a
Bar Association shall, through such Bar Association, apply
to the Minister of Justice for cancellation of his registra-
tion.
ART. 12 A Bar Association may refuse to forward an applica-
tion for registration or for the transfer of registration of
any person who it is apprehended may prejudice the order or
reputation of such ASsOCIATION, or it may order such person
to resign from the Association.
ART. 13 Any person, the forwarding of whose application for
registration or transfer of registration has been refused, or
who has been ordered to resign from an Association in accordance
with the provisions of the preceding Article, may lodge a
complaint with the Minister of Justice.
In the case of the preceding paragraph, the Minister
of Justice may, after making inquiry to the investigation Com-
mission, order the application for registration or the transfer
of registration to be forwarded, or may cancel the order for
resignation.
ART. 14 Matters relating to the Investigation Commission shall
be regulated by Imperial Ordinance.
ART. 15 The Minister of Justice shall cancel the registration
of a lawyer from the Lawyers' Register in the following cases:
1. If he loses his (Japanese) nationality.
2. If he comes within the purview of any number of
Art. 5 of this Law.
If an application for cancellation of registra-
tion is made in accordance with the provision of
Art. 11.
4. If he is required to resign from a Bar Association
or is expelled therefrom.
5. Upon the death of the lawyer.
6. If, in accordance with the resolution of a general
meeting, the Bar Association is dissolved.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
ART. 16. The Minister of Justice shall notify the Bar Association
to which the respective lawyers belong of registrations, transfers
of registrations, and cancellation of registrations in the Lawyers'
Register.
ART. 17. Matters relating to registration shall be regulated by
Imperial Ordinance.
CHAPTER 3.
Rights and Duties of Lawyers.
ART. 18 A lawyer's office shall be set up in the district of the.
Bar Association to which he belongs.
Regardless of the name (or names) used, a lawyer may not
use (set up) more than one office, without prejudice, however,
to his practising in another lawyer's office.
ART. 19. On setting up an office, a lawyer shall immediately
notify the Minister of Justice and the Bar Association to which
he belongs of such fact. He shall do likewise when he has re-
moved his office.
ART. 20. Lawyers shall faithfully (and sincerely) discharge
their duties and shall maintain their dignity whe ther perform-
ing such duties or not.
ART. 21. Lawyers or ex-lawyers shall be entitled to, and are
bound to, keep secrets which have come to their knowledge in
the performance of professional duties; but this does not
apply when there are special provisions (to the contrary) in
other laws and/or ordinances.
ART. 22. Lawyers shall observe (obey) the regulations of the
Bar Association to which they belong.
ART. 23. Except for good (lawful) reason, no lawyer may refuse
to transact matters ordered by virtue of laws and/or ordinances
by official (Government) authorities, or matters directed under
the terms of its regulations by the Bar Association to which he
belongs.
ART. 24. No lawyer may take part in:
1.
Cases in which he has been consulted by the
other party and rendered assistance, or has
consented to (accepted) the other party's in-
structions;
2.
Cases in which he has been consulted by the
other party to such an extent and in such a
manner that the consultation is to be deemed
to be on a confidential footing.
3.
Cases which he has dealt with officially as a
public functionary.
4.
Cases which he has dealt with as an arbitrator
in accordance with arbitration procedure.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
ART. 25. No lawyer may have rights in dispute transferred to
himself.
ART. 26. If a lawyer does not agree to accept a case he shall
promptly notify his client (the entrusting party) to that effect.
In default of such notice he shall be liable for any damages
arising therefrom.
ART. 27. No lawyer may occupy a paid public office, provided,
however, that he may become a member of the Imperial Diet or
of a local Assembly, or perform duties specially ordered or
commissioned by a Government or public office.
No lawyer may, except with the permission of the Bar
Association of which he is a member, carry on any commercial
or other business for profit, or become an employee of any person
carrying on such business; nor may he become a managing partner,
director, or employee of a juridical person having profit-making
for its object.
ART. 28. The provisions of the preceding Article apply mutatis
mutandis to probationary lawyers in practical training.
CHAPTER 4.
Bar Associations.
ART. 29. Bar Associations are juridical persons.
The object of Bar Associations is to maintain the
dignity of lawyers, and to plan for (promote) improvement and
progress in their profession (business).
ART. 30. Bar Associations shall be organized in the district
of each District Court, but where 3oo or more lawyers belong
to one Bar Association, loo or more of such members mey organize
a separate Bar Association in the district of the same Dis trict
Court.
ART. 31. When a Bar Association is to be organized, the lawyers
who are to be its members shall draw up its articles of association
(regulations) for approval by the Minister of Justice.
When the Bar Association has been organized, the lawyers
referred to in the preceding paragraph ipso facto give up their
membership in the Bar Association to which they previously belonged
and become members of the newly organized Bar Association.
The provisions of Art. 10 apply mutatis mutandis to the
preceding paragraph.
When a Bar Association desires to amend its articles of
association (regulations), it shall obtain the approval of the
Minister of Justice.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
ART. 32. When the Minister of Justice has approved of the
organization of a Bar Association, he shall give public notice
of its name, the location of its office, and the date of or-
ganization.
When the Minister of Justice has approved of a change
in the name of a Bar Association, or in the location of its
office, he shall give public notice of such change(s).
ART. 33. Each Bar Association shall have one representative,
provided, however, that in the event that such representative
is prevented from so acting, another person may be appointed
by the Bar Association to act in his stead.
ART. 34. Bar Associations are subject to supervision by the
Minister of Justice.
ART. 35. With the exception of the cases provided for in Art. 31,
any person who has obtained registration or transfer of regis-
tration in the Lawyers' Register ipso facto becomes a member of
the Bar Association which he proposes to join; in the case of a
transfer of registration, he ipso facto gives up his membership
in the Bar Association to which he previously belonged.
ART. 36. A lawyer whose registration has been cancelled on
application under the provisions of Art. 1l of this Law, ipso
facto gives up his membership in the Bar Association to which
he belongs.
ART. 37. Bar Associations have charge of the practical training
of probationary lawyers, except as otherwise provided for by the
Minister of Justice.
ART. 38. Bar Associations shal1 submit answers to questions which
have been put to them by official authorities.
Bar Associations may submit suggestions regarding
judicial affairs or matters concerning the interests of lawyers
to the official authorities.
ART. 39. The articles of association (regulations) of each Bar
Association shall contain:
1. The name and the location of its of fice;
2. Provisions relating to the constitution, duties,
and powers of the representative and other parts
(organs) of the association;
3. Provisions relating to meetings;
4. Provisions relating to the practical training of
probationary lawyers;
5. Provisions showing the standards of lawyers' fees;
6. Provisions relating to the maintenance of (moral)
discipline of its members;

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
7. Provisions relating to legal consultation and
aid in litigation for impecunious persons;
8. Provisions relating to resolutions bearing on
repor ts and suggestions (to the authorities).
9. Provisions relating to mediation of disputes
between members and clients;
10. Provisions relating to the forwarding of
applications for registration and transfers
of registration in the Lawyers' Register;
11. Provisions relating to admission and withdrawal
from the Association;
12. Provisions relating to applications for disciplinary
punishment;
13. Provisions relating to the collection of subscriptions;
14. Provisions relating to assets.
ART. 40. Bar Associations shall hold (ordinary) general meet-
ings annually.
Bar Associations may hold extraordinary general meetings
when necessity therefor arises.
ART. 41. Bar Associations shall, in advance, notify the Minister
of Justice of the day, time, place, and agenda of general meet-
ings; and of the day, time, and place where an election of
officers is to take place.
ART. 42. The Minister of Justice may himself attend, or cause
officials under him to attend general meetings of Bar Associa-
tions or elections of officers.
ART. 43. Bar Associations shall, without delay, report to
the Minister of Justice (all) resolutions passed at each
general meeting, and the assumption of office or retirement there-
from by officers of the Association.
ART. 44. The following matters shall be decided by resolution
at general meetings:
1. Amendments to the articles of association
(regulations);
2. The budget and settlement of accounts.
ART. 45. Should a meeting of a Bar Association contravene laws,
ordinances, or its articles of association (regulations), or
prejudice the public welfare, the Minister of Justice may annul
resolutions passed therein, or stop its proceedings.
ART. 46. In the event of a dispute arising between a lawyer
and his client, the Bar Association may, upon the application
of either party, mediate in the matter.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-
ART. 47. A Bar Association may, with the approval of the Minister
of Justice, amalgamate with another Bar Association existing in
the district of the same District Court.
Upon the amalgamation of Bar Associations, lawyers be-
longing to the Bar Association(s) dissolved as a result of such
amalgamation ipso facto give up their membership in such Bar
Association(s) and become members of the Bar Association continuing
in existence after amalgamation or newly organized as a result of
such amalgamation.
The provisions of Art. 10, par. 1 apply mutatis mutandis
to the preceding paragraph.
ART. 48. On approving of the amalgamation of Bar Associations,
the Minister of Justice shall give public notice of such change
with regard to the Bar Association which continues in existence
after amalgamation, public notice of the dissolution with regard
to the Bar Association dissolved by amalgamation, or the public
notice provided for by Art. 32, par. 1 with regard to Bar
Associations formed by amalgamation.
ART. 49. Each Bar Association intending to effect an amalgama-
tion shall notify its creditors to file objections, if any,
within a stipulated time which must be not less than one (i) month.
In the event that creditors have filed objections
within the (stipulated) term mentioned in the preceding para-
graph, the Bar Association may effect the amalgamation only
after paying such creditors or upon furnishing them with
suitable security.
The rights and liabilities of the Bar Association
dissolved by amalgamation continue in existence after amalgamation
or are taken over by the Bar Association formed by amalgamation.
ART. 50. A Bar Association is dissolved by:
1. Resolution of a general meeting;
2. Amalgamation.
The permission of the Minister of Justice shall be ob-
tained for the resolution of a general meeting under No. 1 of the
preceding paragraph.
The provisions1 of the Arts. 73 to 76, 78 to 80, 82,
and 83 of the Civil Code and Arts. 26 and 27 of the Law Concerning
the Application of the Civil Code apply mutatis mutandis to the
liquidation of Bar Associations.
ART. 5l. On approving a resolution for the dissolution of a Bar
Association, the Minister of Justice shall give public notice of
such dissolution.
ART. 52. With the permission of the Minister of Justice, Bar
Associations may, for the purpose of collaborating with regard
to specified matters, make by-laws for and organize a joint
(combined) Association.
1. These provisions relate to the liquidation of juridical
persons.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-
CHAPTER 5.
Disciplinary Punishment.
ART. 53. Should a lawyer contravene this law or the regulations
of his Bar Association, the Chief Procurator* shall, by order of
the Minister of Justice or with his consent, commence disciplinary
proceedings against him.
Bar Associations may apply to the Minister of Justice
or to the Chief Procurator in order to invoke disciplinary punish-
ment provided for by their articles of associati on (regulations).
ART. 54. Disciplinary punishment of a lawyer shall be under the
control of the Disciplinary Court of the Court of Appeal having
jurisdiction over the district of the Ber Association to which
he belongs.
ART. 55. Disciplinary punishment shell be of four kinds:
1. Reprimand;
2. (non-criminal) fine of not more than ¥1,ooo.-;
3. Suspension for a term not exceeding one (1) year;
4. Expulsion (permanent disbarment).
**
The provisions of Art. 208** of the Law of Procedure
in Non-Contentious Matters apply mutatis mutandis to the execu-
tion of the judgment imposing a fine under the preceding para-
graph.
ART. 56. No lawyer against whom action has been brought for
disciplinary punishment may resign from his Bar Association
or apply for a transfer of registration in the Lawyers' Register
until the judgment rendered against him shall have become
irrevocable.
A Bar Association may not permit any lawyer against
whom action has been brought for disciplinary punishment to
resign (during the pendency of the action).
ART. 57. No application for the commencement of disciplinary
proceedings mey be made if three (3) years have elapsed from
the time when the cause for disciplinary punishment has
occurred.
ART. 58. In addition to the provisions of this Law, the Law
for the Disciplinary Punishment of Judges applies mutatis
mutandis to disciplinary punishment hereunder.
*
Attached to the competent Court of Appeal.
**
The Article provides that a judgment imposing a (non-criminal)
fine is executed by order of the Procurator, and that such
order has the same effect as an executory title of debt.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
This Law shall be enforced as from April 1st, 1936.
Persons who are actually qualified as lawyers when
this Law shall come into force, under regulations previously
in force, shall continue to be so qualified after the enforce-
ment of this Law.
Persons condemned (to penalties) for felonies or
imprisonment under the old Criminal Code shall be deemed, in
applying the provisions of Art. 5 hereof, to have been condemned
to imprisonment or a heavier penalty.
Registrations in the Lawyers' Register in accordance
with regulations hitherto in force shall be deemed registra-
tions in the Lawyers' Register under this Law.
The registrations of lawyers who are not actually
members of a Bar Association when this Law comes into force
shall lose their validity unless they join a Bar Association
in accordance with the regulations hitherto in force within
three (3) months from the day of enforcement hereof.
Pending the formation of Bar Associations under
this Law, the regulations hitherto in force shall apply to
Bar Associations; provided, however, that this Law shall
apply with regard to the forwarding of applications for
registrations and to applications for transfer of registra-
tions in this Lawyers' Register.
Bar Associations actually existing at the time when
this Law comes into force shall, within six (6) months from
the date of enforcement hereof, draw up their articles of
association (regulations) for the purpose of organizing Bar
Associations in accordance with this Law, and obtain the
approval of the Minister of Justice. On granting such approval,
the Minister of Justice shall give public notice of the name
of the Bar Association, the location of its office, and the
date of its organization.
Upon the formation of a (new) Bar Association in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph,
the members of the old Bar Association ipso facto become
members of the new Bar Association and the new Bar Association
succeeds to the rights and liabilities of the old Bar Association.
Lawyers actually having two or more offices at the
time when this Law comes into force may continue the same
for not more than six (6) months from the day of enforcement
hereof.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
In Re Control of Handling Legal Affairs.
(Law No. 54 of the Year 1933).
ART. 1. No persons other than lawyers may give expert opinion,
act as attorneys, bring about arbitration or compromise regarding
lawsuits between others and/or disputes in non-contentious matters
between others, or serve as intermediaries in such transactions,
except as an adjunct to a legitimate business.
ART. 2. No person may, as a business, become the assignee of
the rights of others and enforce such rights by lawsuits or
o ther means.
ART. 3. No persons other than lawyers may, for profit-making,
use the words "Lawyer's Office", "Law Office" or similar names
(or words).
ART. 4. Persons contravening the provisions of Arts. 1 or 2
hereof shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one (1) year, or to a fine not exceeding ¥1,Oo0.-. The same
applies to lawyers who have obtained cases through the medium
of such persons.
Persons contravening the provisions of Art. 3 hereof
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding ¥1,000.-.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
This Law shall be enforced as from April 1st, 1936.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
-14..
Kai-shok. According to Demei, tho Premipo clso re ired that the
territorial integrity of China vas a principle wrich Tapan had teen
advocating for the past forty years and hat, urererore, Japan must
prevent foreign powers from taking ugeressive action aainct China.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
LE
M B. SPENCER
45-A YAMASHITA-CHO. NAKA-KU.
YOKOHAMA. JAPAN.
AND
ATENT ATTORNEY
BRAMS-"BOYDSPEN, YOKOHAMA"
ONE -SSOż (HONKYOKU)
June 27, 1938.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
Attention Mr. Ward-Legal Department.
I would like to bring to your attention the following matter
which vitally affects Mr. C. C. Smith of Tokyo, Japan; Mr. Wm. J.
4.1
Sebald of Kobe, Japan, and myself of Yokohama, Japan, all American
lawyers carrying on their business in Japan from the above cities:
In 1933 the Japanese Diet passed Law No. 53 of the year 1933
called the Lawyers' Law and Article 6 of the Law reads as follows:
894.0414/3
"Aliens who are qualified as lawyers abroad
may transact the matters provided for in Art. 1
relative to foreigners or foreign law, but this
only with the permission of the minister of Justice
and provided there is reciprocity."
The above law became effective April 1st, 1936.
Article 1 referred to in Article 6 reads as follows:
FILED
"It is the function of lawyers to do acts
relating to lawsuits and to carry out general
legal affairs at the request of parties con-
cerned or other persons interested, or by virtue
of official appointment."
Prior to April 1st, 1936, the above named persons and myself took
the matter up with the Department of Justice in Tokyo, but were unable
to file our petitions until April lst, l936, which we all did at
that time.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
We are all members of the Bar of our particular states, myself
being a member of the Bar of the District of Columbia. I filed with
my petition the original of a letter attached hereto dated Feb. l9th,
1936, and issued by Mr. John Paul Earnest, Chairman of the Committee
of Admission and Grievances, Bar of the District of Columbia.
So far as the contents of the letter is concerned the Department
of Justice has admitted that the same complies with the reciprocity
clause, but I have been unable to convince them of the power and
authority of this Committee, and they have suggested that I get a
similar certificate or letter from some Government Department which
they would know. They have suggested the United States Department
of Justice, the State Department or the American Ambassador in Japan.
There is also in Tokyo, Japan, a British Barrister at Law, an
Englishman named John Gadsby who also petitioned for a permit under
the above law. He likewise was faced with the same requirement, and
he was able to obtain from the British Ambassador in Japan a certificate
of which the attached is a copy.
The Department of Justice in Tokyo has informed me that so far as
Mr. Gadsby is concerned they are satisfied and are ready to issue to
him his permit, but that as I was going to the United States to endeavor
to obtain a statement or certificate similar thereto, they would hold
up the issuance of his permit until I had been able to supply a similar
document.
I have set forth above the circumstances under which I am applying
to you for assistance and in connection with the same, I would like to
point out the following facts:

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
1. Mr. Smith has been carrying on his business in
Japan for the past 23 years.
2. I have been carrying on my business in Yokohama for
the past 17 years.
3. Mr. Sebald has been carrying on his business for
the past five years.
4. That the three of us represent practically all the
American firms in Japan with regard to legal matters.
5. So far as I am concerned, I represent in Japan, among
other firms, the Universal Pictures Co.,
The Carnation Company, the International Business
Machines Corporation, Dollar Steamship Line and
many American individuals.
6. That so far as we are concerned personally the per-
mission to carry on our business as heretofore
is very vital to all of us individually and we
believe that it is to the benefit of American
interests that we continue to do business in Japan.
I would like to also point out that I am only requesting a
certificate regarding the District of Columbia and not all of the
United States; further that I understand the statement made by
Mr. Earnest in the letter, a copy of which is attached, is in accord-
ance with the true facts, namely, that there is no law prohibiting
a qualified Japanese lawyer advising his people in the District of
Columbia. In other words, what I want is a statement or certificate
to the effect that there is no specific law on the subject. As
Mr. Earnest states in his letter, a Japanese lawyer could act in
legal matters affecting the interest of his countrymen without
violating any law, but could not appear in Court or be a member of the
Bar in the District of Columbia.
I might state that so far as Japan
is concerned only Japanese subjects can become members of the Japanese

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Bar and so far as the American lawyers in Japan are concerned we have
no desire to be members of the Bar in Japan and the permit if given
to us by the Japanese Department of Justice would not include the
right to be members of the Japanese Bar or plead before the Court.
I cannot too much emphasize the importance to us of obtaining a
certificate or statement of some kind which will be acceptable to the
Japanese Department of Justice along the lines of Mr. Earnest's
letter or the British Ambassador's certificate. There is no question
that our ability to continue to do business in Japan is to the benefit
of American interests there.
Therefore I trust that you can see your way clear to issuing to
me such a certificate which I believe would satisfy the Japanese
Department of Justice and they would issue to us the permits which we
have applied for.
Respectfully,
Encls.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMITTEE ON ADMISSIONS AND GRIEVANCES
BAR OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington, D. C. February 19, 1936.
Walliam B. Spencer, Esquire,
45-A, Yamashita cho,
Naka ku, Yokohama.
Dear Sir:
Replying to your inquiry as to the status of a Japanese lawyer
and what he would be permitted to do here in his professional
capacity as a lawyer of Japan, would say that one so situated could
not be admitted to the Bar as that privilege is accorded those only
who are citizens of the United States.
If however, there were Japanese citizens here who sought the
advice of one of their number who was a member of the Bar of Japan,
such a one could act for his people and advise and help them in
all legal matters which affected their interests without in any
way violating any law here, but could not appear in Court to argue
their cases.
Yours very truly,
John Paul Earnest,
Chairman.
JPE-an.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
CERTIFICATE.
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that I am
satisfied that a Japanese "bengoshi" is at liberty to
undertake in England any kind of legal business, English
or foreign, with the exception of advocacy in the English
Courts of Law, the formal conduct of legal proceedings in
the English Courts, and the drafting for reward of a very
few special classes of English documents such as conveyances
of English land in freehold.
▲ Japanese "bengoshi" may therefore give legal
advice on matters of his own law and of English law: may
draft documents to operate under his own law or (save as
above stated) under English law: may conduct business matters
in a legal fashion: and generally may carry out all legal
business which does not involve his own personal advocacy
in the English Courts or the formal conduct of litigation
in those Courts by him.
The above are matters of long established custom
in England and there is no law which deals specially with
them.
There is no Ministry of Justice in England and
I am satisfied that there is no Department of the Government
which can ordinarily be called upon to certify such matters.
IN FAITH AND TESTIMONY WHEREOF I have hereunto
SET MY HAND and AFFIXED BY SEAL OF OFFICE at the British
Embassy in Tekyo this
day of
in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and
thirty eight.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
CERTIFICATE.
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that I am
satisfied that a Japanese "bengoshi" is at liberty to
undertake in England any kind of legal business, English
or foreign, with the exception of advocacy in the English
Courts of Law, the formal conduct of legal proceedings in
the English Courts, and the drafting for reward of a very
few special classes of English documents such as conveyances
of English land in freehold.
▲ Japanese "bengoshi" may therefore give legal
advice on matters of his own law and of English law; may
draft documents to operate under his owm law or (save as
above stated) under English law: may donduct business matters
in a legal fashion: and generally may carry out all legal
business which does not involve his own personal advocacy
in the English Courts or the formal conduct of litigation
in those Courts by him.
The above are matters of long established custom
in England and there is no law which deals specially with
them.
There is no Ministry of Justice in England and
I am satisfied that there is no Department of the Government
which can ordinarily be called upon to certify such matters.
In FAITH AND TESTIMONY WHEREOF I have hereunto
SET MY HAND and AFFIXED BY SEAL OF OFFICE at the British
day of
Embasay in Tokyo this
in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hunder and
thirty eight.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
CERTIFICATE.
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that I am
satisfied that a Japanese "bengoshi" is at liberty to
undertake in England any kind of legal business, English
or foreigm, with the exeeption of advocacy in the English
Courts of Law, the formal conduet of legal proccedings in
the mglish Courts, and the drafting for reward of a very
few spesial classes of English documents such as conveyances
of English land in freehold.
A Japeanese "bengomhi" may therefore give legal
adviee on matters of his own law and of Engliah law; may
draft doeuments to operate under his own law or (save as
above stated) under English law: may donduet business matters
in a legal fashion: and generally may carry out all logal
business which does not involve his own personal advocacy
in the English Courts or the formal conduct of litigation
in those Courts by him.
The above are matters of long established oustom
in England and there is no law which deals specially with
them.
There is no Ministry of Justice in England and
I am satisfied that there is no Department of the Government
which can ordinarily be called upon to oertify such matters.
In FAITH AND TESTIMONY WHEREOF I have hereunto
SET MY HAND and AFFIXED BY SEAL OF OFFICE at the British
Eabassy in Tokyo this
day of
in the year of Our Lerd one thousand nine hunder and
thirty eigat.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
COMMITTEE ON ADMISSIONS AND GRIEVANCES
BAR OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington, D. C. February 19, 1936.
William B. Spencer, Esquire,
#45-A, Yamashita cho,
Naka ku, Yokohama.
Dear Sir:
Replying to your inquiry as to the status of a Japanese lawyer
and what he would be permitted to do here in his professional
capacity as a lawyer of Japan, would say that one ao situated could
mot be admitted to the Bar as that privilege is accorded those only
who are citizens of the United States.
If however, there were Japanese citizens here who sought the
advice of one of their number who was a member of the Bar of Japan,
such a one could act for his people and advise and help them in
all legal matters which affected their interests without in any
way vlolating any law here, but could not appear in Court to argue
their cases.
Yours very truly,
John Paul Earnest,
Chairman.
JPE-an.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
COMMITTEE ON ADMISSIONS AND GRIEVANCES
BAR OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Washington, D. C. February 19, 1936.
Willim B. Speneer, Esquire,
#45-A, Tammshita sho,
Naka ku, Yokohama.
Dear.Sir:
Replying to your inquiry as to the status of a Japanese lawyer
and what he would be permitted to do here in his professional
eapaeity as a lawyer of Japan, would say that one so situated could
mot be admitted to the Bar as that privilege is accorded those only
whe are sitisens of the United States.
If however, there were Japanese citizens here who sought the
adviee of one of their number who was a member of the Bar of Japan,
sueh a one could aet for his people and advise and halp them in
all legal matters which affected their interests without in any
way violating any law here, but could not appear in Court to argue
their eases.
Yours very truly,
John Paul Earnest,
Chairman.
JPE-n.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
LE
45-A YAMASHITA-CHO. NAKA-KU.
SPENCER
YOKOHAMA. JAPAN.
Y-AT-LAW
ATTORNEY
Divinion of
June 27, 1938.
YAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
BOYDSPEN. YOKOHAMA"
S202 (HONKYOKU)
Vu
1-1938
of State
Dear Mr. Ward:
July 6 1938.
My letter addressed to the Secretary of State was written on my
office stationery. However, I am in Washington, D. C. until such
time as we can get in shape the matter I spoke and have written
about.
My present address is care of
Mr.Wm. C. Smith,
5100 - Fifth Street, N. W.
Tel No. Georgia 6135.
Washington, D. C.
Very truly yours,
NON.
894.0414
1938 JUI 6 PM 1 56
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AND RECORDS
RECEIVED
9°
C2
Pr
tlrnset
4710

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.90)
July 14 1938.
894.0414
My dear Mr. Spenoer:
Referenee 1s made to your letter of June 27, 1938
and to your eall at the Department in regard to your
afferte to ebtain a sertificate aoceptable to the
Japanese Departmemt of Justice as to the professional
3
serviees which Japanese lawyers may perform in the
Dastriet of Celumbia, in support of your application
for permissien te centinue the praetiee of law in Japan
口
ts secereamee with the pertinent provisions of the
G
Japanese Law Ne. 53 of 1933.
Goptes of your letter and its enelosures are being
semt to the Ameriean Ambessador at Tokye, together with
the Geouments hereinafter listed which you bresght te the
Depertment en June ss, 1938:
1.
. lm B. Speeer,
Gese of ar. wallsam C. Baith,
ssee Fartm street, Herthweet,
Westhangten, D. 0.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
1. Lettter dated Jume 27, 1938 signed by Jehm Paul
Sarmeat, Chairman, Committee on Admissions and Grievances
triet of Celmmbia. (This letter is identieal with the
Letter ef Fekruary 19, 1936 signed by Mr. Earnest and
submitted by Mr. Spenser to the Japanese Department of
Jwetioe.)
2. Certifieate by the Chief Justice of the Dis-
Srist Court of the United States for the District of
Golmbia, certifying to the official position of
. Earmest and his axthority to make the statements
sontaimed in his letter of June 27, 1938.
3. Authentisatiom of the sertifieate of the Chief
Justise of the Distriet Court of the Uaited States for
the Distrist of Columbia issued in the name of the
Attorney General of the United States and under the
Seal of the Department of Justice of the Umited States.
4. Authentieation of the Seal of the Department
of Justiee of the United States of America issued in
the mame of the Sesretary of State of the United States
and wnder the Seal of the Department of State of the
Umited states.
The Ambassader is being informed that sinee ques-
tieme relating to the right to practiee law in the
Distriet

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
Bistriet of Columbie are the particular coneern of the
Gemmittee on Admissions and Grievanoes of the Distriet
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia
and are not within the provisions of the Department of
Justice or the Department of State, the authority of
Mr. Earnest to make the statements conteined in his
letter of June 27, 1938 have been officlally certified
and the Ambassador has been asked to transmit the four
Geoments listed above to the Japanese Department of
Justiee and to request that the permit for which you
have applied may now be issxed to you.
sinoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Green H. Heekworth
Legal Adviser
A true copy of
the fangd origi-
FE
dom0

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.87)
July 6 1938.
NO.1530
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
sir:
There is transmitted herewith a oopy of a letter
dated Jume 27, 1938, from Mr. william B. Spencer, an
Ameriean attermey at law, who states that he has been
ongaged im the prastise of law in Japan for the last
894.0414/3
seventeem years, requesting the Department's assistance
as forts to obtain a eertirieate acceptable to
e Japamese Department of Justiee as to the profes-
momal serviees which Japenese lawyers may perform in
Bietsies of Columbia. Goples of the twe enelesures
mesened La Mr. Speneer's letter are alse transmitted
ct.
As explaised by Mr. Speneer the certifieate 1s
  1
 Lam me. 8s of l0ss, the trenelassene ef
,
ate 3

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.93)
Artiele 1
"It is the fumation of lawyers to do aots
relating to lawsuits and to carry out general
legal affairs at the request of parties concerned
or other persons interested, or by virtue of of-
ficial appointment."
Art1cle 6
"Aliens who are qualified as lawyers abroad
may tramsact the matters provided for in Art. 1
relative to foreigmers or foreign law, but this
only with the permission of the Mimister of Jus-
siee and previded there is reeiproeity."
It will be observed from Mr. Speneer's letter that
the statements contaimed in the letter dated February 19,
19se sigmed by Mr. John Paul Earmest, Chairman of the
Gommittee en Admissions and Grievances of the Distriet
Gourt of the Umited states for the Distriet of olumbia,
In regare to the status of Japanese lawyers in the Dis-
srist of Celumbia, are regarded by the Japanese Depart-
ment of Justiee as meeting the condition of recipresity
establlsbed by artiele 6 of the law abeve quoted, but
thns the pepartment of Justice is not convineed of the
amtheraty of Mr. Earnest to make the statemente con-
saised in Ms letter and has uggested that a sinilar
etasemens be ebtaimed frem the Departmont of Justiee,
Bepertment of state er the amorleen Ambasseder at
ven os the fest ths eestiene reiating to the

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.91)
-8
mant ef state, the authority of Mr. Earnest to make the
statements contained in his letter has been officially
eertified. This certification includes the following
doouments, whioh are enolosed herewith:
1. Letter dated June 27, 1938 s1gned by John Paul
Earnest, Chairman, Committee on Admisslons and Grievances
of the Distriet Court of the United States for the Dis-
triet of elumbia. (This letter is identical with the
letter ef February 19, 1936 signed by Mr. Barnest and
submitted by Mr. Spencer to the Japanese Department of
sueti.e.)
2. Certifieate by the Chief Justiee of the Dis-
triet Gourt of the United States for the Distriet of
columbia, eertifying to the official position of
Mr. Barmest and his authority to make the statements
comtalmed 1n kis letter of Jume 27, 19s8.
3. Authentieatien of the certifieate of the Chief
Jussiee of the Distriet dourt of the Umited statee fer
the Mstriet of Golumbie issued in the mame of the AS-
termey Gemsral of the United states and under the seal
of the Bepertmems of Justiee of the maited states.
6. asthentiession of the Seal of the Department
of sussiee of the Vaited states of ameriee issued in
the ame of the neeretary of state of the Uaitee statee
ha os the Doperteent of state of the

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
wemal chanmels and to request that the permit for which
Mr. Speneer has applied under the Japanese law may now
be issued to him.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
R. Walton Moor
Eaclesures:
1. Frem Mr. William B. Speneer,
Jume 27, 1988, with endlosures.
2. Frem Mr. John Paul Earmest,
Jume 27, 1938, with three
certifieates affixed thereto.
copy of
nal.
E

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.95)
LE
GEORGE V. PARKHURST
LEGAL ADVISER
ATTORNEY AT LAW
52-55 IGLEHART BUILDING
NAW. COR. ST. PAUL AND
TIMORE, MD.
Cctober 12th, 1938
OCT
Department of State of the United States
Washington, D. C.
1938 0CT 13
oetober 17 1938.
Attention: Mr. Ward
AND RECORDS
28
Suite 262
17th Street
Washington, D.c.
E
Dear Mr. Ward:
2
William d. Setale, sq e the law fimf
DeBecker, DeDecker & Sebald, Meikai uilding, Akashi- achi, Yobe,
Japan, has requested me to secure a letter for hin cuted Cotober
3rd, 1938 from the Yaryland State Foard of Law Txainers and
signed by Alexander Amastrong, Esq., hairman.
894.0414/4
This lotter has been placed in your hands this
day, together with the certifications of Carroll T. ord, Chief
Judge of the Court of ppeals of the State of  aryland, and Jemes
A Young, "lerk of Said Court. Both of these certifications
have been certified to by the Seeretary of Stato of  aryland.
To purpose cf this letter is to estab lish to
the satisfaction of the  inister of Justice of Japan the ect that
reciprocity does exist between the State of Taryland and ouap in
so far as a member o? the Japanese Far, resident ir Haryland, is
concerned.
Mr. Sebeld is a member of t e Marylend Bar and
he has been noticied that it is necessary for him to estetlish the
fact of reciprocity of the aforemertione tpe if he is to continue
to practice law in Kobe.
FILED
The time in which this must be esteblished is
very short. In ir. Sebald's letter to me, dated September 5th, 1938
4
he says:
" I might say that I have been given two months in which to
deterninewhether or not it is possible to obtain the necessery
proof of reciprocity in Maryland, and I am therefore anxious
to know the positicn as seon as possible."
I, of course, have no way of mowing thc exact date on which the
proof must be furnished but I presume the last day is elout the
5th of November, 1938.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.95)
Sheet #2
October 12th, 1938
Department of State of the United States
You will recall the Wir. illiam B. Spencer
requested a similiar service of your department durin: July of
this year and that you forwarded the papers obtained by r.
Spencer. Your file number in this mmlter is: Le 894.0414/3.
The certifications for r. Snencer's letter differed from those
presented for  r. Sebald because ir. Spencer is a mamber of the
Bar of the District of Columbia and r. Sel ald is a memher of the
Bar of the State of Maryland.
In order that I r. Se' ald will know hov to
proceed in securing an extention of time ir which to furnish
the required proof to the  inister of J stice of Japan, I would
su est that a cable be sent to the aerican abassy in Tolgo
advising them of the presont status of the papers now in your
pocsession.
A ca le  ress't the though outlined in the
sample cable below, would, I beliove, clarify the natter.
11
American Embassy, Tokyo Plenre asvice Japenese Minister
of Justico that we have in hand stotenen't a dressed to Tilliam
J. Sebald, Tobe, with proper cerhificotions showing reciprecity
between Japanese lavyer and Laryland lawyers . Statements
similiar to those in case o"  illiem B. Spencer. Criginal
papers being forwarded in reguler ccurse. oti y Sebald, Kobe."
Today I have advised I r. Sebald that we have
placed in your hands the roguired rapers and that you will cable
the American Brbassy in Tokyo. The cable which 1 sent is as follows:
"Sebald, Kobe FI ISHMD CA LE COTFTE ATICN PASSY TOKYO"
The work    a as used here is a special
code, meaning: "The completed docurents have been taken to
the Department of State which wi 1 in due c urse forward them to
the Embassy Tokyo."
All costs and charges which are invelved in
this matter I will gladly pay.
Due to the great urgency of this matter
from Ir. Sebald's standpoint, your immediate cooperation in dis-
patching the cable end forwarcing the cocuments under the great
seal of the Depart ent of utate of the nited States will he
sincerely appreciated.
Your kind consideration and direction of my
efforts in this matter make me very grateful.
Respectfully,
Gerge Bakhms

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
Fil
894.0414
MARYLAND STATE BOARD OF LAW EXAMINERS
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
25OO BALTIMORE TRUST BUILDING
BALTIMORE, MD.
October 3, 1938.
William J. Sebald, Esq.,
DeBecker, DeBecker & Sebald,
Meika1 Building,
32 Akashi-Mach1,
Kobe, Japan.
My dear Mr. Sebald:
Replying to your letter of inquiry as to the status
of a Japanese lawyer and what he would be permitted to
do in Maryland in his professional capacity as a lawyer
of Japan, I would say that one so situated could not be
admitted to the Bar merely on the ground that he had
practiced elsewhere for more than five years, as that
privilege 1s only extended to members of the Bar of other
States of the American Union or of the United States.
If, however, there were Japanese citizens who sought
the advice of one of their number who was a member of the
Bar of Japan, such a one could act for his people and ad-
vise and help them in all legal matters which affected
their interests. He would not be permitted to appear in
Court to argue their cases generaliy, but would probably
have extended to him for the purpose of a single case the
privileges of the Court if he had associated with him in
the case a Maryland lawyer.
Very truly yours,
ALEXANDER ARMSTRONG
Chairman.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
STATE OF MARYLAND
CITY OF ANNAPOLIS, BB:
I, CARROLL T. BOND, Ch1ef Judge of the Court of
Appeals of the State of Maryland, do hereby certify that
the Maryland State Board of Law Examiners 1s a legally
constituted body, duly authorized by the laws of the
State of Maryland (Code of Public General Laws, Article 10,
Seotions 1 through 7 (1924) and amendments); that the
Court of Appeals of this State 1s duly authorized by the
aforementioned law to appoint persons whom they shall
select as members of the Maryland State Board of Law Ex-
aminers; that the said Court has heretofore appointed
Alexander Armstrong, Chairman of the Maryland State Board
of Law Examiners; that the aforesaid law provides that
the Maryland State Board of Law Examiners shall determine
who shall practice as an attorney at law within the State
of Maryland.
And I further certify that Alexander Armstrong,
Chairman of the Maryland State Board of Law Examiners
has the authority to make the statements contained in the
letter from the Maryland State Board of Law Examiners
dated October 3, 1938 to Will1am J. Sebald, Esq.,
DeBecker, DeBecker & Sebald, Meika1 Bu1lding, 32 Akash1-
Mach1, Kobe, Japan, to which letter this certificate 1s
attached; and that the signature of Alexander Armstrong
to the aforementioned letter, is genuine.
In testimony whereof, I hereto set my hand as
Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals of the State of
Maryland, this 11th day of October, 1938.
CARROLL T. BOND
Chief Judge of the
Court of Appeals of
the State of Maryland

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL DODE-
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
October 14, 1938.
Et Cormer, St. Paul
6PM
Fayette Street,
hts cable was sent in confidential Code.
It should be carefully paraphrased before
communicated to anyone. 
AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN).
353
wail instruction/
7.211.
Department's 1530, July 6, re Spencer,
On behalf of, William, J. Sebald, American, attorney,
894.0414/4
Kobe, Department, is, mailing certificates of, competent,
Maryland, efficials, authenticated under, Department's,
seal, establishing that, Japanese,lawyers, in, Maryland,
are accorded,rights, substantially,identical with, those,
available, in,the District of Columbia, as shown by,
documents, submitted in, Spencer, case, Inform, Minister
of Jus tice,and, Sebald.
Shice
(sum)
F/A
708
894.0414/4
ELS
~3.27/1.
Sont by operalef
M.,
19
D. C. R.—No. 0
1-1462
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
Detober 17 1938.
My dear Mr. Parkhurst:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of your letter of
Geteber 12, 1938 in regard to the desire of wil-
L J. Sebald, Esquire, Kobe, Japan, that the
Japanese Ministry of Justice be informed of the
Fights ascerded Japanese lawyers in Maryland as
894.0414/4
asetesed in the decuments whieh accompanied your
letter, namely:
(1) Letter dated Geteber 3, 1938 frem Alexander
Asmetrong, Ghairmam of the Maryland State Beard of
Law Emmmimers, addressed to william J. Sebeld, Esquire,
Sobe, dapen, setsing forth the rights available to
Japenese lawyere La Karyland.
(s) Gertifieate by Memerable Garrell T. Boad,
ge V. Partiaret,
s Gepee st. Pan nd

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
mief Judge of the Gourt of Appeals of the State of
Maryland, certifying as to Mr. Armstrong's official
position and deolaring his authority to make the state-
ments contained in the letter of October 3 to Mr. Se-
bald.
(3) Certiricate of James A. Young, Clerk of the
Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland, certifying
as to the status and authority of Alexander Armstrong.
Esquire and Monorable Carroll T. Bond.
(4) Gertifieate of E. Ray Jones, Seeretary of State
of Maryland, eertifying to the officlal position of
James A. Young.
(5) Certifieate of E. Ray Jones eertifying as to
the offieial position of Honorable Carroll T. Bond.
The purpose of Mr. Sebald in making the request
meatiemed is to establish his right under the laws of
Japem te contimme the prastice of law in that coumtry
 smbmitting evidenee aeceptable to the Japanese
Msmistry of Justiee that the laws of Maryland accord
t Japemese latgers in shat State rights which are
.
 Sesttfleates of the Sesretary of state wader the
s the Sapertent of State heve been affted to

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.89)
-8-
the deeumemts above mentioned and they are being sent
to the Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo for delivery to the
Japanese Ministry of Justice.
In view of your statement as to the urgeney of the
matter and the impossibility of effeoting delivery of the
doouments to the Japanese Ministry of Justice before the
empiresion of the time limit set by that Ministry for
the reseipt of evidence, the Embassy was requested by
telegreph under date of Ootober 14, 1938 to 1nform the
Minister of Justice and Mr. Sebald that the documents
umeer referemee, muthentieated under the seal of the De-
partmemt of state, were being mailed. A paraphrase of
the telegram reads as follows:
"Octeber 14, 1938.
"Inferm Minister of Justice and William J.
Sobald, Amerlean Attormey, Kebe, that Department
is mailing cortiricates ef cempétent efricials
of Maryland establishing that Maryland aecorés
te Japanese lawyere rigats whieh are sebstaatially
caNt
sineerely youre,
For the Seeretary of state:
OUT 17 1938.FM
A
Mrt.cce
nal

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.91)
petober 24 1958.
1598
Jeseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Genfirming the Department's telegram no. 353 of
Oetsber 14, 19se, there are tranamitted herewith a copy
894.0414/4
of a letter frem Mr. George v. Parkhurst, an attorney of
Balsimore, Maryland, and the decuments hereinafter listed
which Mr. Parkhurst requests be sent to the Japanese
Mimtatzy of Justice in support of an application made
 lim J. Sebald, an American attermey at Kobe, for
ssien to eestinue the practice of law in Japan.
me doeuments are wiefly deperibed as follows:
(1) Lester ef Cctober 3, 1938 from Alezander
Beard of Law Examimers, addressed te
Walliam d. Bebeld, Esquire, of the law firm
of Deßesker, Deßecker amd Sebald, Meikai
Building, Akashi-Maehi, Kebe, setting forth
the rignts accorded Japanese lawyers in
Maryland:
Cersificate of Hemorable Garrell T. Bond,
(4) Gartirieate

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
(4) Certifieate of Nenerable Z. Ray Jemes, Beere-
tary of state of Maryland, authentieating the
certifieate of Homerable Carroll T. Bend;
(5)
) Certifieate of the Seeretary of State of the
Umited States under seal of the Department
of state of the United States authenticating
the seal of the Secretary of State of Maryland
affixed to certificate (4) listed above;
(6) Certificate of Honorable E. Ray Jones, Secre-
tary of State of Maryland, authentioating the
ocortifieate of James Young:
(9) Certifieate of the Searetary of state of the
Wnited States under the seal of the Department
of state of the Uaited states authentieating
the seal of the Seeretary of State of Maryland
affixed to certifieate (6) listed above.
The emelesed documents establish that Japanese lawyersh
in Maryland are ascerded rights which are substantially
idemtieal with rights available in the Distriet of Celumbia
as shemm by the decumeats traasmitted with Department's
ma12 1nstruetion no. 1530, July 6, 1938, 1n suppert of a
samilar applleatien made by Mr. william B. Speneer.
Tou are requested to transmit the decumente under
reference to the Ministay of Justice mith a request fer
e Sesuenee of the permit for whieh Mr. sebald hee ap-
Vory traly youre,
For the seeretary of state:
R. WALTON MOORE

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
GEORGE V. PARKHURST
ATTORNEY AT LAW
LEGAL AUVISER
3
52-55 IGLEHART BUILDING
RECEIVED
N. W. COR. ST. PAUL AND FAYETTE STREETS
OCT 20 1938
JEPARTMENT OF STATE
BALTIMORE, MD.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1938 0CT 20 PM 1 38
October 19, 1938
DIY
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Mr. Green H. Hackworth
Dear Mr. Hackworth:
894.0414/5
Thank you for your communication
dated October 17th in the matter of Wm. J.
Sebald, Esq., Kobe, Japan. Your Department
894.0414/5
has been most cooperative and I wish to
extend Mr. Sebald's appreciation for your
invaluable assistance.
Respectfully,
GVP:JNP
F/FG

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
GEORGE V. PARKHURST
ATTORNEY AT LAW
52-55 IGLEHART BUILDING
N. W. COR. ST. PAUL AND
BALTIMORE, MD.
In reply refer to
Le 894.0414/4
RECEIVED
OCT 24 1938
Department of State of the United States
Division of
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Attention: Mr. Ward
OCT21 1938
Suite 262
'epartment of State
State Department Building
894.0414/6
17th Street
Washington, D. C.
Re: Wm. J. Sebald, Esq.
Kobe, Japan
Dear Mr. Ward:
Under date of October 17th, we have
received a communication signed by Green H. Hackworth,
Legal Adviser, in the Department of State, acknowledging
receipt of documents and reciting the issuance of a cable.
Allow me to express the sincere apprecia-
tion of both Mr. Sebald and myself for your very helpful
cooperation in making the communication to the Minister
of Justice in Japan possible.
Respectfully
Gergo NkhonA.
F
A
FILED
GVP:JNP
