894.20234 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Paraguay Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., Januar (File 1486)
ID: 894.20234-1486   Pages: 10   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20234-military-affairs-army
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
JOHN-EDGAR HOOVER DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEIVED
JAN 1 5 1945
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
BUREAU OF NAVAL AND CORRESPONDENCE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
894.202-34/1-545

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
Date: January 15, 1945

To: Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief

as being one of the most active and outstanding of the young Nisei Japanese in Peru. It will be observed that he is a Peruvian citizen and is engaged in the direction of the Escuela Zamudio. Moreover, he is reported to be strictly pro-Japanese and to be serving as an informant to the Spanish Embassy in Lima, Peru, as to Japanese who are not loyal to the Japanese cause.

This information has been made available to the American Embassy as well as to the Military and Naval Attaches at Lima, Peru.

cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General C. W. Clarke

Enclosure

894.202-34/1-545

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
December 9, 1944

Re: JULIO HOSHI, with alias
TERUO HOSHI
Lima, Peru

Source A, a former employee of Subject JULIO HOSHI, advised that Subject had discharged him because he was pro-Allied in his sympathies whereas Subject himself was extremely pro-Japanese.

According to Source A, he had been employed by Subject in connection with a Japanese school maintained by the latter at Calle Zamudio 630, Lima. The source advised that Subject was on the United States Proclaimed List and was also concealing merchandise belonging to Proclaimed Listed firms. The hiding place for this merchandise was said to be Apartment 20, Calle Zamudio 630, Lima.

HOSHI was described by Source A as a Japanese Peruvian, employed as manager by CASA MUROMO. According to Source A, Subject has a brother, ALTO HOSHI, who was employed by ISHII y CIA, and who was also engaged in concealing merchandise belonging to Proclaimed Listed firms.

With reference to the Japanese school mentioned by Source A, Source B, extremely well informed in matters of Japanese activities in Peru, reports that its Japanese name is HOSHI-GAKU-EN and that it was established by Subject's mother, YOSHINO HOSHI, who was deported aboard the SS SEAMANE June 15, 1942, with her three minor children, together with the majority of the Japanese school teachers in Peru. YOSHINO HOSHI was the bearer of Peruvian foreigner's identification carnet #16906. At the present time the school is being administered by the Peruvian authorities with a Peruvian director reported in October of 1943 to be GONZALEZ (GENTENO).

Source E, a half-Japanese who is well acquainted with the Subject, stated that at the present time there are two or three Japanese of Peruvian birth instructing at the school and the remainder of the instructors are Peruvians. All of the students are Japanese. Among the remaining instructors is a sister of JULIO HOSHI. The students at the school range between 4 and 16 years of age. Though the Peruvian security laws which were passed about the time of Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941, make it illegal to teach sources in Japanese, it has been reported by Source C that this is still being done in a clandestine manner at the school which is now known as Escuela Zumedio. According to Source B, prior to the time that the school was taken over by Peruvian authorities it had a student body of 330 odd students and a facility of ten teachers, seven Japanese and three Peruvian.

Source D, a Peruvian with wide acquaintance among the young Japanese of Lima whose information in the past has proved to be reliable, reports that JULIO HOSHI is, in fact, the director of the Escuela Zumedio. He is living

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
at the present time on the premises with his two brothers, ALVENDO and
AGUSTO. According to Source D, there is a young Peruvian at the school
who appears to be the director and there are two other Peruvian employees.
Nevertheless, Subject, who is holding the property in the absence of his
mother, manages the school. According to source D, the school teaches
young Peruvians of Japanese race love of Japan and carries on its teachings
through the Sociedad Ex-Alumnos de la Escuela Japonesa, an alumni association
of which Subject is the head. At the present there are 150 students in the
school. Source D states that HOSHI is manager of N. MURONO y GIA., "Plaza
de Oro", whose store is located at La Virreyma 488, and is assisted in his
work by his brother, AGUSTO. Subject is a partner in the firm. Subject
has served in the Peruvian Army as a volunteer soldier during the Peruvian-
Ecuadorian conflict in 1942. Both Subject and his mother, according to
Source D, have been active in Japanese affairs and have entertained not
only Japanese but also Peruvian politicians. Although Subject was born in
Peru, he is strongly pro-Japanese, and it has been said to Source D that he
has often made the statement that Japan has been preparing for 35 years for
the present war and that victory is sure. Many Okinawan Japanese hate HOSHI
but are afraid to show it because if any Japanese should indicate sentiments
adverse to the ideals of Japan HOSHI would advise Japan through the Spanish
Embassy and the families of these Japanese might suffer reprisals in Japan
proper. This, at least, is what Source D has been told by Okinawans of
his acquaintance. (It should be noted that the Okinawan Japanese do not
come from the main islands of Japan and have not been as thoroughly incul-
cated with Japanese ideals as the others.)

Source C adds the following concerning subject. After graduating
from his parents' school, he entered a Peruvian college, later studying
medicine which he discontinued before his course was completed. As a youth
he was employed by the Japanese Central Society. He is quite athletic,
is one of the best baseball players among the Japanese in Lima and has among
his other activities the job of teaching athletics at the Escuela Hanade.
Eight years ago he served on the reception committee for the Japanese athletes
and swimmers who were sent on a good will tour by the Japanese Government to
Peru. During the time of the anti-Japanese riots which took place in 1940,
Subject served on the committee of assistance to the victims of the riot.
He has served in the Peruvian Army and is a reserve sergeant. For the past
five years, he has been in the employ of N. MURONO y GIA., "Plaza de Oro".
His younger brother ALVENDO, also known as MITSUBO, is 19 years of age and
is presently studying in Colegio Alfonse Ugarte. Of the seven Japanese
teachers that were employed at the school while it was in the hands of
Subject's mother, four had been sent to Peru by the Japanese Government, the
remaining three being Mrs. HOSHI and her two daughters. The Japanese Govern-
ment also lent financial assistance to the school. From time to time reports
have been received that meetings have been held on the school premises.

Source E, a source within the Peruvian police, has reported that
on January 1, 1944, 36 young Japanese who were holding a gathering at the

- 2 -

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
school were arrested. Of these, 11 proved to be Japanese citizens and the remainder Nisei Japanese. SHUKEI KATSURO, who was one of the Japanese in attendance, was deported March 1, 1944, aboard the USAT CUSA as a result of his activities in connection with the gathering. The police found nothing subversive in the gathering, and it has been reported by Source C that its character was purely social. It was, however, in violation of Security laws passed by the Peruvian Government which make it illegal for alien enemies to gather together in large groups.

It has also been reported by an anonymous source of unknown reliability early in 1944 that a group of Japanese were meeting at the school to discuss activities and plans for the Japanese Central Society. These Japanese are as follows: MOROMISHATO, owner of a restaurant at Abascal 190, Lima; the brothers INAMI, owners of a shirt factory, Calle Acobamba; SHEMGIU YAGUI, owner of a coffee factory in the Lince district of Lima; KIMBOKO TERUYA, owner of a restaurant in Viterbo, Lima; the brothers MAKACHI, owners of a cafe in Jiron Colmena, Lima; and UYENA, owner of a restaurant on Calle Veinticuavo, Lince, Lima. It is possible that the YAGUI referred to above is identical with SENTEI YAGI, also known as NOBUSADA YAGI, an officer of the Japanese Central Society in 1927 through 1929 and president in 1928, who has been deported from Peru.

In November of 1944, Source C also reported that Subject is in charge of the Sociedad Ex-Alumnos de la Escuela Central Japonesa, an organization of alumni of the Central Japanese School which was founded in 1930 and reorganized recently by subject.

In December of 1942 it was reported by Source F, regarded as reliable, that JAIME VIDAL (PERALTA), Avenida Francisco Pizarro 673, Lima, requested a credit of the Banco de Credito in Lima, Peru, to import stationery supplies since he was not engaged in the stationery business. Inquiry was instigated by the bank which revealed that he was acting as agent for JULIO HOSHI and the N. MURONO y CIA., "La Pluma de Oro", which deals in stationery and sports goods. Further investigation revealed that Subject and one HARTOR YAMASHITA were attorneys in fact for PERALTA and that PERALTA's checking account in the Banco de Credit was handled exclusively by YAMASHITA. That this cloaking operation had succeeded in evading the sanctions of the Proclaimed List is indicated by the fact that the store "La Pluma de Oro" featured in its window displays such items of manufacture as Carter's Ink.

A composite description of Subject as furnished by Sources C and D is as follows:

|  Age | 29  |
| --- | --- |
|  Height | 5' 5"  |
|  Weight | 150 lbs.  |
|  Sex | Male  |
|  Race | Oriental  |
|  Nationality | Peruvian by birth (Japanese descent)  |
|  Build | Athletic  |

- 3 -

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
- 4 -

Mair
Byes
Occupation
Avesation
Languages
Marital Status

Black
Dark
Merchant, school director
Sports, particularly baseball
Speaks Japanese, Spanish, English
Single

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
AMERICAN REPUBLIC
NOV 27 1946

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NO. 64-3708-B

Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER

Date: November 20, 1945

To: Mr. Frederick J. Igne
Chief

This information is available to the American Embassy at Asuncion, Paraguay.

Enclosure

cc: Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department, Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
October 23, 1945

RE: JAPANESE COLONY AT YBYTYMI, PARAGUAY

Reliable Source of Information C, an official of the Paraguayan Government, explained that by Decree No. 9863, dated August 9, 1945, the juridical persons of the German and Japanese Schools were abolished. A further decree dated August 27, 1945, and numbered 9980 provided for the assets of the German and Japanese Schools to be taken over by the Paraguayan Government.

The latter decree charged the Ministry of Hacienda with the making of an inventory of the property of the schools to be confiscated. The law further provided that when the inventory was terminated any engravings, books, flags, symbols, etc., of a fascist, Nazi, or imperialistic nature should be turned over to the Ministry of Education. The remainder of the assets, including the archives of the schools, was to be taken over by the Director of the National Schools for use in those national schools.

Source of Information C has previously pointed out that the Japanese population of Paraguay has been under effective control and virtual relegation at Colonia La Colmena near Ybytymi. Unlike other nationals of the Axis, the Japanese have been effectively restrained in Paraguay because their colony is under the close scrutiny of an efficient government interventor.

According to Source C, in June of 1945, ENRIQUE SCARONE, the Government Interventor in the colony, advised the Minister of Interior that previously there had been one Japanese and two Paraguayan schools functioning. Because of violations of regulations laid down by the Interventor regarding the type of instructions to be given to the children, he had merged the Japanese School into the official government school and named a Paraguayan director and Paraguayan teachers to replace the Japanese.

Acting under Paraguayan Decree No. 9863 and No. 9980, the Government Interventor at the colony had headed a group of officials who conducted an inventory on September 24, 1945, of the assets

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
belonging to the Japanese School.

Source of Information C reported that the inventory listed real property described as a lot 150 meters by 150 meters fenced by wire. A valuation of 1800 Guaranies ($600) was placed on that property. The school building was listed for 3,457.56 Guaranies ($1,152.52 U.S.). A more detailed inventory was made listing the scant amount of furniture, books, teaching material, and tools present in the building. No value was given to these latter articles. Source C explained that evidently their value had been included in the sum assessed to the building.

On October 8, 1945, the Government Interventor in filing the inventory stated that a representative of the National Schools had taken charge of the furniture, books, tools, and school materials, and all property had now passed to the Paraguayan Government. This source explained that the Ministry of Education receives title to the building and real estate.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.67)
-2-

The first issue which we have in Al has a significant statement from Al Argentina Delijo of February 8, 1961, in the "Identification of the Argentine

[Signature]

[Handwritten note: "Al. Alussey: 2 3"]

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
The telegram must be closely paraphrased before being communicated to anyone.
SECRET
WASHINGTON, SECRET
FEB 1 1944

AMEMBASSY
BUENOS AIRES (ARGENTINA)
139

As one phase of preparations for conference Department, is attempting to gather full information on activities of Japanese diplomats since relations broken. Warner's translation summaries of Japanese press since date of break are missing for the following dates and may contain pertinent information: February 24 to 29, April 18 to 30, July 1 to 15, and August 26 to 31, 1944.

Please summarize by airgram at earliest practicable moment extent to which restrictions upon activities of Japanese Embassy and staff normally attendant upon break in relations have not (repeat not) been enforced as well as any available specific examples of abuses of liberty enjoyed. Any facts bearing upon this subject will be useful but must be specific.

If material is brief please telegraph it.

ACTING

RC

RPA:ES:MC
2/2/45

FC - Cleared by Telephone with Mr. English.
