894.4212 Education. Correspondence Schools., Academic., Japan, Higher., January 20, 1948 - December 17, 1949 (File 1817)
ID: 894.4212-1817   Pages: 59   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.4212-education-correspondence-schools-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
DETR
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION OF
DCIR
No. 43
-21948
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Use of Department Only)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject:
Transmittal of a Memorandum of Conversation
With Mr. NAMBARA, Shigeru, President of Tokyo
University, and Mr. YOSHIŻAWA, Seijiro, Vice
President of the Central Liaison Office.
894.4212/
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1
I have the honor to enclose copy of & memorandum
of conversation, which is summarized below between
certain officers of this Mission and Mr. NAMBARA,
Shigeru, President of the Tokyo University; and Mr.
YOSHIZAWA, Seijiro, Vice President of the Central
Liaison Office, which occurred at a dinner given on
December 27, 1947 in Tokyo. Among the subjects dis-
cussed were the possible use of a Junior College systom
in Japan; decentralization of Japanese universities;
activities of teachers unions; exchange of teachers and
students; reorganization of the Central Liaison Office
and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; need for study
materials for Foreign Services Officers; selection of
Foreign Service Officers; attitude toward the United
Nations.
CS/A
Summary: Mr. Nambara expressed opposition to the
introduction of the Junior College system into Japan,
the over-specialization in Japanese universities, and
the weight given legal training in preparing students
for government service. He decried the proposal that
the seven national universities be decentralized by
transformation into prefectural universities, pointing
out the financial problems involved and the difficulty
894.4212
of obtaining good teachers. In connection with teachers
unions he asserted there have been many excesses, ele-
mentary teachers having had the greatest influence to
date. Mr. Nambara hopes university professors will be
more influential in the future. Mr. Nambara emphasized
his hope that Japan might send students abroad, espe-
cially young professors, and indicated that Japanese
universities would welcome mature foreign students who
have mastered Japanese. He is grateful that foreign
educators are beginning to be sent to Japan.
Mr. Yoshizawa

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 43,
January 20, 1948.
- 2-
Mr. Yoshizawa stated that the Government Section
of this Headquarters requested a plan of reorganization
for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Central Liaison
Office, and other major agencies of the Japanese Govern-
ment. He expressed opposition to decentralization of
the Central Liaison Office and to removing its functions
from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Prime
Minister, because after the peace treaty these functions
must be returned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
However, he expeets the Diet to dissolve the Central
Liaison Office by the middle of February in response
to the suggestion of the Government Section.
Mr. Yoshizawa mentioned that Japanese Foreign
Service Officers are studying for future assignments,
but lack sufficient study materials. He denied that
there is a clique in the Foreign Office favoring selec-
tion of personnel from graduates of Tokyo University.
He seemed pleased by the interest shown at the inaugu-
ral meeting of the Japan United Nations Association.
He characterized as untrue a report that the President
(Naotake SATO, former Foreign Minister) and Secretary-
General (Ken HAkADA, former Minister to the Vatican) of
the Association had expressed opposition to a proposal
made by General MacARTHUR that the United Nations
supervise terms of the peace treaty. End of summary.
In connection with the proposed reorganization of
2/
the Central Liaison Office, there is enclosed a copy of
an excerpt from Daily Bulletin No. 9 of January 12, 1948
issued by this Headquarters outlining a plan for such re-
organization. The need of Foreign Service Officers for
study materials has been previously mentioned in this
Mission's despatch No. 1290 of September 20, 1947,
subject, "Establishment of Japan Foreign Service
Training Institute."
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum of Conver-
sation with Mr. Nambara,
Shigeru and Yoshizawa,
Seijiro, December 27, 1947,
together with two copies
of an article from the Pacific
STARS AND STRIPES, Tokyo,
December 16, 1947.
2.
Copy of an excerpt from Daily
Bulletin No. 9, January 12,
1948 issued by GHQ, SCAP.
800
RHBushner/WHLawrence, Jr.:cgf
Original and ozalid to, the Department
CONFIDENTIAL
netd yNA

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 43 dated January 20,
1948 from the Office of the United States Political
Adviser at Tokyo, on the subject of: "Transmittal of
a Memorandum of Conversation With Mr. NAMBARA, Shigeru,
President of Tokyo University, and Mr. YOSHIZÁWA,
Seijiro, Vice President of the Central Liaison Office."
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department use only)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECTS:
Decentralization of Japanese Universities;
International Exchange of Teachers and
Students; Reorganization of the Central
Liaison Office and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
PLACE:
Dinner given by Foreign Service Officers
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., and Rolland H.
Bushner, on December 27, 1947, at their
residence in Tokyo.
PARTICIPANTS: NAMBARA, Shigeru, President of Tokyo
University,
YOSHIZAWA, Seijiro, Vice President of the
Centrai Liaison Office.
Foreign Service Officers of this Mission:
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., Second Secretary
Rolland H. Bushner, Third Secretary
Mr. Nambara, in an interview with news reporters,
recently expressed the opinion that the Junior College
system is not applicable to Japanese educational insti-
tutions. Questioned with regard to his reasons for that
opinion, he stated that the curricula of Japanese uni-
versities does not lend itself to division. There are
few general subjects, he said, which are studied by all
university students. He pointed out that the Tokyo Uni-
versity (formerly Tokyo Teikoki Daigaku) has faculties
of letters, law, medicine, economics, and others, in
which the courses are all of a specialized nature. He
believes that, although it would be advisable gradually
to introduce courses of a general nature similar to those
studied by a majority of students during their first two
years in universities and colleges in the United States,
nevertheless at present such courses do not exist in
Japanese universities. According to Mr. Nambara, there
is too much specialization in Japanese universities,
and too much weight is given to legal training in prepar-
ing students for governmental positions.
In addition, he pointed out that a very small per-
centage of students fail to complete the full four-year
university course, so that there appears to be no
greater demand for the first two years of university
training than for the last two years. He concluded
that

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 43, January 20, 1948.
that the Junior College system could not be integrated
into the present Japanese university system.
It is understood that consideration is being given
to the decentralization of all Japanese universities
(with the exception of the seven National Universities)
into prefectural units. Under such a program, univer-
sities would be administered and financially supported
by the prefectures wherein they are located. Mr. Nambara
offered several objections to this plan, drawing atten-
tion to the problem of financial support, the difficulty
of obtaining good teachers in universities of outlying
areas, and the national character which some of these
universities already have. With regard to the latter
objection, he pointed out that a number of the univer-
sities which would be affected by the plan draw a major-
ity of their students from outside the local area. He
also explained that under the present organizational
system, good teachers are assigned to a university with-
out regard to its wealth. Mr. Nambara expressed the
opinion that the plan for decentralization of universi-
ties arose, not at the instigation of the Civil Informa-
tion and Education Section of this Headquarters, but as
a result of the zeal of the Government Section to decen-
tralize all agencies of the Japanese Government.
In connection with activities of teachers unions,
Nambara asserted that there have been many excesses.
He insisted that the most dangerous and ill-considered
activity has arisen from among elementary teachers who
have had less educational advantages than teachers in
the middle schools (Chugakko) or universities. He
pointed out that it was they who had started the union
movement and that in his opinion they had had undue in-
fluence ever since. He also submitted that natural
science teachers are more susceptible to Communist
doctrine than social science teachers on account of the
"similarity of the materialistic beliefs held by Com-
munists and natural science teachers." He hopes that
university professors may have greater influence in the
future as a result of the formation of associations of
university professors having a more professional outlook.
Mr. Nambara expressed a fervent hope that Japan be
allowed to send students to England and America, par-
ticularly the young assistant professors who were unable
to pursue their studies properly during the war. He
would also like teachers to come here from abroad, but
recommended caution on account of the language difficul-
ty. He stated that he thought it would be valuable if
they came on vacations during which time they could
travel extensively throughout Japan. However, he
believes that students such as those who learned Japanese
in language schools during the war might gain from coming
to Japan. He thinks that mature students who have
mastered the language would find a great deal of interest
to them both in Japan and in its colleges.
Mr. Nambara
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 43, January 20, 1948.
Mr. Nambara stated that the British Government has
sent to Japan Mr. E. C. Blunden, a British poet. (Mr.
Blunden is attached to the United Kingdom Liaison Mis-
sion as education adviser and first secretary.) He
said that British representatives have pointed out that
their Government is unable to assist, as the United
States is, by giving the Japanese material aid. How-
ever, Blunden has been sent in an effort to furnish
cultural assistance. Nambara also indicated that he
understands that a representative of the Civil Liberties
Union is expected soon. Both the latter and Blunden,
he said, are to lecture at Tokyo University.
Mr. Yoshizawa provided the information that in
mid-November 1947 the Government Section of this Head-
quarters requested plans of reorganization for the
respective major agencies of the Japanese Government.
Reorganization plans for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
are apparently expected to be drastic, and are to be sub-
mitted before January 15, 1948.
He said that at first the Government Section ap-
parently intended to decentralize the Central Liaison
Office, but he believes that plan has not been modified.
According to his information, the mere fact that the
local branches of the Central Liaison Office were under
its organizational jurisdiction is considered by the
Government Section to be a dangerous factor. He argued
that this could scarcely be true since local liaison
officers are former members of the Japanese Foreign
Service who allegedly are completely disinterested in
politics. He asserted that these officers are anxious
to return to diplomatic service as soon as possible.
In Mr. Yoshizawa's view there is no advantage in
decentralization for decentralization's sake. He stated
that he recommended to the Government Section that the
Central Liaison Office be kept in its present form until
conclusion of the peace treaty. The proposed reorgan-
ization, he stated, would result in the functions now
closely connected with the Foreign Office being given
to the Prime Minister. After the signing of the treaty
such functions would have to be shifted back to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs so that it could deal with
whatever type of control mechanism may replace General
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Ailied Powers.
In his opinion, such a change would cause unnecessary
disruption of the work of the Central Liaison Office
even though most of the personnel must, in any event,
be shifted to the Ministry of Foreign Áffairs at a later
date. In that connection he pointed out that this
office was never meant to be more than a temporary agency
to function during the period between the surrender and
the peace treaty.
Mr. Yoshizawa
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 43, January 20, 1948.
Mr. Yoshizawa said, however, that since the Govern-
ment Section desires the Central Liaison Office to be
dissolved, the Diet will act upon the matter as soon as
it convenes. He expects the dissolution of the Central
Liaison Office to occur by the middle of February. It
is expected that an agreement will be made that the
personnel transferred, consisting mostly of former
Foreign Service Officers, will be available when the
need for them arises after conclusion of the peace
treaty.
Mr. Yoshizawa added that a plan was being prepared
for reorganization of the Japanese Foreign Service with
an eye to the changed needs of Japan in the future. In
this connection study is being given to a translation
of the United States Foreign Service Act of 1946, as
well as to appropriate regulations concerning the Foreign
Service of the United Kingdom.
The morale among Foreign Service Officers is good,
he mentioned, because they expect before long to follow
again the profession they have chosen. At present they
are studying and preparing themselves for possible
assignments throughout the world. However, they are
handicapped by lack of source material concerning many
parts of the world because of their isolation during the
war and the Occupation.
In General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, there has been some belief, according to
Mr. Yoshizawa, that there is a clique in the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs which insures that graduates from
Tokyo University get preference in selection of Foreign
Service Officers. In this connection he asserted that
most young men in Japan wish to attend this university
so that it has an opportunity to select the most able
students. Inasmuch as examinations have been prepared
heretofore by professors of Tokyo University, he believes
there may be grounds for the claim that the examinations
have been somewhat less difficult for graduates of that
university.
Mr. Yoshizawa mentioned that he had been present
at the inaugural meeting of the Japan United Nations
Association (this Mission's despatch No. 4 dated January
2, 1948, subject, "Inauguration of Japan United Nations
Association and Request for United Nations Publications"),
and was pleased at the interest shown. He referred to
an article (copies attached) in the STARS AND STRIPES
of December 16, 1947, in which Mr. Russell Brines claimed
that the President, SATO, Naotake (former Foreign Minis-
ter and former Ambassador to Moscow) and Secretary-
General HARADA, Ken (former Minister to the Vatican) of
the new organization, had disapproved General MacArthur's
proposals concerning United Nations supervision of Japan
after
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's
No. 43, January 20, 1948.
- 5 -
after the signing of the peace treaty. Mr. Yoshizawa
insisted that neither of the men whom Mr. Brines had
interviewed disagreed with General MacArthur. He also
stated that there was a rumor that Lieutenant Colonel
D. R. Nugent, Chief of the Civil Information of Educa-
tion Section, who had been scheduled to speak at the
inaugural meeting, did not appear because of the
contents of the article.
Attached:
Two copies of an article from
the Pacific STARS AND STRIPES,
Tokyo, December 16, 1947.
RHBushner/WHLawrence,Jr.:cgf
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Attachment to Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 43, January 20, 1948.
Dec 16, 1947
Nippon Diplomats
Disapprove UN
Japan Trusteeship
By RUSSELL BRINES
Chief of Tokyo AP Bureau
The first direct Japanese disap-
proval of General MacArthur's pro-
posal for United Nations trustee-
ship over Japan was voiced today
by two former diplomats who are
heading this country's campaign
for the speediest possible mem-
bership in the international or-
ganization.
Naotake Sato, former foreign
minister, and Ken Harada, one-
time minister to the Vatican, saia
trusteeship would be "unsuitable."
They added that to the Japanese
UN supervision would be prefer-
able to that of Far Eastern Com-
mission nations if "a control or-
ganization is necessary after the
peace treaty."
Their remarks were made dur-
ing a press conference concerning
the new "United Nations Associa-
tlon of Japan" which will be inau-
gurated Wednesday for the an-
nounced purpose of educating the
Japanese regarding the interna-
tional body, Sato is president and
Harada secretary-general of the as-
sociation, the membership of which
includes other former diplomats
and professors.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatêh No. 43 dated Jamuary 20,
1948 from the Office of the United States Political
Adviser at Tokyo, on the subject of: "Transmittal of
a Memorandum of Conversation With Mr. NAMBARA, Shigeru
President of Tokyo University, and Mr. YOSHIZAwA, Seijiro,
Vice President of the Central Liaison Office."
Source: Daily Bulletin No.9,
January 12, 1948
issued by GHQ, SCAP.
Excerpt:
I. DISSOLUTION OF JAPANESE CENTRAL LIAISON OFFICE.
Effective 1 February 1948, the Central Liaison
Office, operating under the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
will be eliminated in its present form. A unit, great-
ly reduced in size, will be established in the Office
of the Prime Minister. This unit may possibly be named
"Office for Liaison with Occupation Authorities," and
will handle general correspondence and contact matters,
political and governmental matters, and general super-
vision over liaison offices and staffs.
The Repatriation Division will become an integral
part of the Foreign Office. A Reparations Commissioner
will be set up at Cabinet level. The Accommodation
Division will function under the Prime Minister's Office
until its duties are taken over by the Special Procure-
ment Board. The purely liaison sections, which operate
specifically for ministries, will be dropped after 1
February 1948.
A staff memorandum will be issued on this subject
prior to 1 February 1948. AG 300 (9 Jan 48)DCS
0 0 0 0
cgf

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
JAPAN CHRISTIAN
is assigned to
UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION
PoS
214 EAST 21st STREET
OFFICERS
Now York 10, N. Y.
STAPP
FE
RALPH E. DIFFENDORFER
JAMES L. FIESER
President
Executive Director
JOHN COVENTRY SMITH
Vice-President
PUBLIC EFAIRS OVERSEAS PROBRAM STATF
Assistant Executive Director
A. L. SCHAFER
MRS. CHARLES H. SEARS
Japan
MISS RUTH MILLER
Secretary
Branch
Administrative Assistant
PROFESSOR JOHN LANGDON JONES
POS/I
Treasurer
JU11949
MISS HENRIETTA GIBSON
Assistant Treasurer
LEPARTMENT OF STATE
June 29, 1949
Mr. Dean G. Acheson
Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I am herewith submitting for your information and for the considera-
tion of the State Department a brief outline of a project which is being
894.4212/6-2949
undertaken under the auspices of the Federal Council of Churches and the
leading Protestant denominations of the United States to establish a
Christian University of higher education in Japan. This project has
been under consideration and active study in Protestant circles for
more than fifty years. Plans for the new institution are now nearly
completed, a site in Tokyo has been procured, and already a sum of more
than $1,500,000 has been pledged in contributions for the cause. Of
this amount nearly $500,000 (in American dollars) has been contributed
this spring by the people of Japan, whereas the remainder has been con-
tributed by several of the leading denominational boards.
The first unit of the proposed University will be a Graduate School
of Teaching with the purpose of providing in Japan a nucleus of able tea-
chers educated in the principles of democracy and freedom of thought and
inquiry.
Starting this coming fall it is proposed to launch a financial cam-
paign in the United States with an objective of $10,000,000 to finance
the first unit of the new University. A comprehensive survey which has
been gonducted, over the past few months reveals a remarkable degree of
enthusiasm for the project among Christian laymen and clergymen of all
the Protestant denominations. Since the project in question is designed
804.4212
to foster democracy and Christianity in Japan and to improve the rela-
tions between the American and Japanese peoples, it obviously has a very
direct bearing on American foreign policy. Accordingly, we are most
anxious to obtain the reaction of the State Department toward this pro-
DOn
posal andlrof course, are hopeful that the Department will feel that it
can give it its approval.
CS/
nal
ev
心
at.
m
Dist.
1
177711

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. Dean G. Acheson
-2-
June 29, 1949
Dr. Ralph Diffendorfer, the President of the Japan Christian Univer-
sity Foundation, is at present in Japan. In his absence I would be glad
to come to Washington to discuss this matter with you or anyone whom
you might designate in the Department.
Looking forward with keen interest to your reaction to our project,
I am
Very sincerely yours,
John Coventy Smith
ce President
and. need 7/6/49.
P.K.
4/a

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
A Briefing Statement
A CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOR JAPAN

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
A Briefing Statement
A CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FCR JAPAN
With the imminent probability that all China will be taken over by the
Communists, the future of Japan becomes of vastly increasing importance to
Americans. Japan remains the outstanding nation in the Far East which is readily
accessible to Christian democracy and American ideas and ideals. It is the
easternmost bastion of Western friendship and influence in the troubled and un-
certain period upon which Asia is entered. This fact presents an immensely
significant challenge and opportunity to the American people and particularly
to American Christians.
When the United States won its victory over the totalitarian regime
that had led and driven the people of Japan into disastrous war, our country was
confronted with a grave responsibility. The American people and their government
were convinced of three things.
Every possible step must be taken to prevent totalitarianism, which
believes neither in God nor in man, from returning to control in Japan.
Every effort must be made to lead the Japanese nation and people to
the democratic way of life, in which the dignity and the freedom of the individual
are paramount.
Everything possible must be done to save Japan from the insidious in
vasion of that other brand of totalitarianism which is Communism.
The Supreme Command for the Allied Powers, under the leadership of
General Douglas MacArthur, set itself to accomplish these three tasks.
Under General MacArthur's administration, American prestige in Japan has
reached a level much higher than would have seemed possible for conquerors con-
trolling a conquered people. As time goes on, however, with the gradual taking
over of more and more responsibility and self-government by the Japanese people
themselves, the relations between the Japanese people and the United States, and
all the peoples of the West, must come to rest on deeper and firmer foundations
than any which can be laid by a ruling military administration. The only founda-
tions that endure in such a relationship are composed of common spiritual con-
victions.
The ultimate sanctions of democracy are spiritual sanctions. The only
sure way to help the Japanese achieve the democracy which is the objective of
the American administration, the American people, and enlightened leaders among
the Japanese themselves, is through the inculcation of Christian spiritual
principles among an increasing number of Japanese leaders.
-1-

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
General MacArthur has declared his conviction that only the Christian
religion with its emphasis on freedom, because it postulates human dignity and
because it believes in Almighty God as Creator and Sovereign of all, cán make
democracy a reality in Japan.
An urgent responsibility rests in turn, therefore, upon the Christian
churches in America and in Japan. They must strengthen the service of Christian
education rendered to the Japanese people by evangelical Christian institutions,
develop it to higher levels, broaden its scope, and augment its effectiveness.
There is strong evidence that this strengthening of the Christian
agencies of education is desired by clear thinking Japanese. Not only leaders
among the Christians of Japan but many who are not Christians recognize the
value to their country of the kind of education that the Protestant colleges and
schools provide. A group of Japanese, including not only educators, but business
men, have pledged themselves to raise nearly half a million dollars to help found
a Christian university comparable in its standards and educational processes to
American universities.
There are in Japan today 12 evangelical Christian institutions of
college grade. Three of them are classed by Government as universities, although
they have not found it possible to achieve true university stature.
Each of the 12 has junior college and secondary education departments.
There are 52 independent Protestant Christian schools at the secondary
education level.
All of the Christian colleges and school have expanded their student
enrollment since the end of the war with Japan. The available figures for the
past school year show at least 81,336 students in these 64 Protestant institutions
In this framework of Christian education in Japan an important place
would be filled by an institution of real university caliber which should provide
educational leadership of a high quality and serve as a coordinating influence
among all the agencies of Christian education.
The first purpose which such a university should have in view is the
provision of thoroughly trained and enlightened teachers for the Christian
colleges and schools.
The United States Education Mission to Japan, in its report made in 1946
characterized succinctly the educational methods in use under the old regime.
"Teachers have been told exactly what to teach and how to teach it. Teaching has
been, by and large, formal and stereotyped. To prevent any deviation from the
prescribed content and form, inspectors have been charged with the duty of seeing
that printed instructions were followed to the letter. Such a system has the
effect of putting teaching in a strait-jacket."
-2-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
A prominent Japanese scientist and educator has described the situation
in parallel terms. He wrote:
"Japan's education has consisted for a very long time of mere 'teaching',
not educating. That is, pupils have been trained to 'understand and memorize'
(sometimes without understanding) what is taught in the classroom. Even the
university students have been trained to memorize what is read by professors.
This way may be called feudalistic or bureaucratic. Japan's education may be
some one hundred years behind American modern education. Dr. W. D. Coolidge of
the General Electric Company of Schenectady recommended, after a month's study,
'changed educational method designed to develop rather than stifle originality.
To meet this overwhelming and immediate need of educational reform, an
undertaking is under way to create a Japan International Christian University
near Tokyo.
The governing boards of ten evangelical churches in the United States
and Canada, together with the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America,
have developed the plan. The church boards include these of the following churches:
Church of the Brethren
Congregational Christian Churches
Evangelical and Reformed Church
Evangelical United Brethren Church
Methodist Church
National Baptist Convention
Northern Baptist Convention
Presbyterian Church in the U. S. A.
Reformed Church in America
United Church of Canada.
Other church boards are expected to join the group as soon as official decisions
are made.
Representatives of these ten church bodies are members of the Board of
Directors of the Japan Christian University Foundation, which was incorporated
under the laws of the State of New York in March of the present year.
The purpose of the Foundation, as stated in its certificate of incorpo-
ration, is "the advancement of the Japanese people through democratic education
based on Christian principles."
It is the function of the Foundation to secure financial resources in
America for the creation of the university and to exercise broad supervisory
authority over the university organization through its provision of the main
supply of financial support.
Already over one million dollars has been pledged to the university by
church boards in the United States; and in Japan a group of educators, industri-
alists, and social workers have committed themselves to raise 150,000,000 Yen,
which is approximately equivalent to $417,000 at the present rate of exchange.
-3-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
●
The plan for the Japan Christian University in its formative phase,
has the following characteristics:
(1) It will be carried on at the professional and graduate level.
(2) Its control (subject only to the broad supervision of the
Japan Christian University Foundation) will be in the hands of a Governing Board
in Japan, all of whose members will be Christians and a majority of them Japanese
citizens.
(3) The President and faculty of the university will be appoint-
ed by the Governing Board in Japan, and the selection of the President will be
confirmed by the Foundation.
(4) The university will have a physical plant on a 350 acre
campus near Tokyo, the land for which, with several buildings on it, has already
been contracted for and the first payment made.
(5) It is the intention that the first university unit to be
created shall be a professional school of education, to prepare teachers for
service in colleges and secondary schools. The establishment of such a Christian
professional school of teaching is of critical strategic importance in a land
where totalitarian indoctrination has shackled those who teach and has inhibited
the spirit of free inquiry and the search for truth. Japan needs teachers for
its Christian colleges and secondary schools not only who are thoroughly trained
but whose minds and spirits have been released from the "thought control" of the
totalitarian regime and the resulting habits of thinking.
(6) It is the further intention that units for graduate and
professional education in other fields shall be added to the central university
organism at such times as the progress of the university justifies and financial
resources are made available.
(7) It is the hope that the Japan Christian university will be
able to achieve cooperation with the existing Christian colleges in Japan for
the furthering of their common purpose of providing trained Christian leadership
and for the integration of their respective strengths into a more powerful in-
strumentality of mental, moral, and spiritual advancement.
Careful study will be given to the possibilities for such
coordinated effort. One direction in which such possibilities lie is presented
by the interest of certain Christian colleges in the development of graduate
study in specific fields, such as law, medicine, agriculture, and social work,
where beginnings have already been made or plans are under consideration.
(8) The plan for the establishment of the university is
estimated to involve the neeu for $1o, ooo, ooo. This money will be allocated
to construction of the physical plant, furnishing, and equipment, and to en-
dowment, in such proportions as the final plans for the university and for
the first unit - the professional school of euucation - indicate as essential.
-4-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
In an editorial in Collier's for May 7, entitled "Japan, Reborn,
Can Be Our Ally," the concluding paragraph reads as follows:
"Is there any better assurance of peace and good will in the Far East
than that which may be found when Japan is allowed once again to be self-sup-
porting, self-respecting, and responsible?"
The movement to create a Japan Christian University of true university
stature is one important step toward making Japan self-respecting and responsible
through the development of enlightened leaders.
The Japan Christian University Foundation, Inc.
Rev. Ralph E. Diffendorfer, D.D., President
Rev. John Coventry Smith, D.D., Vice President
Mr. James L. Fieser, Executive Director
Address: 214 East 2lst Street
New York 10, N. Y.
Telephone: ORegon 3-2990
-5-

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
P
- Mr. Sargeant
TO
: FE - Mr. Merchant
DATE: August 16, 1949
FROM : ITP - Mr. Schaetzel
suBject: Letter to the Secretay of State with respect to a
Proposal to establish a Graduate School in Japan
You will recall my recent telephone call with refer-
ence to this subject, which was based on information we
had received that the Department had not replied to corre-
spondence on this matter. After checking around, Mr. John
Crosby Brown discovered that the Department had in fact
replied to the letter, and that indeed Mr. Allen's reply
was all that could be asked for. Apparently the confusion
is in part explainable by the fact that the vacation
schedules in New York somewhat interfered with the normal
handling of correspondence.
Mr. Brown was most apologetic about the confusion
created and thanked the Department profusely for its
interest, and said that either Dr. Smith or Mr. Diffen-
dorfer would get in touch with Mr. Frank A. Schuler, POs/J,
soon. I have called Mr. Schuler to give him this infor-
mation.
7
ITP:JRSchaetzel:ejh

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.76)
helter in pos/
Neither OII or DEX have any record of this
letter,
ate. thisns ok fntts h seeais.
Hei litt delfiatn cha
rcta4l a
herkt for it
F.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFILE OF
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
AuG 10 10 17 AH 49
FO
August 9, 1949
PUBLICAFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
My dear Mr. Brown:
In the course of Win's hectic departure from Wash-
ington for his vacation, he left for me a note with
respect to a/letter you recently sent to the Department
regarding a campaign to establish a graduate school in
Japan. We have checked on this letter, which I under-
stand has been in the Department about three weeks
without an answer, and have been unable to unearth it
either in the Office of Far Eastern Affairs or in the
office of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
Also, our mail recording section seems to have no record
of the letter. Occasionally, and unfortunately, corre-
spondence does get lost in the Department. It is pos-
sible that this may have happened to your letter.
From Win's sketch of the program you outlined, I
am sure the Department will be most sympathetic and
indeed anxious to help in any way feasible. I am
writing, therefore, to suggest that a duplicate of
the letter be sent so that appropriate officers can
give it proper attention.
Sincerely yours,
J. Robert Schaetzel
Special Assistant to the Director
Office of International Trade Policy
Copy to:
Howland Sargeant, Livingston Merchant, W. G. Brown
Mr. John Crosley Brown,
Care of Tamblyn and Brown,
31 Madison Avenue,
New York 10, New York.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
JU 21194
My dear Dr. Smith:
The recoipt is acknowledged of your letter of Jume 29, 1949,
together with the mimeographed outline sont under separate cover,
regarding a project kmown as the Japan Christian University
Foundation whi ch is being undertaken under the auspices of the
Federal Council of Churches and the leading Protestant denominations
of the United States. You point out the bearing that this project
has on American foreign policy and ask for the Department's views.
The Department has been observing for some time and has been
discussing with Dr. James L. Fieser, the Executive Director of the
Foundation, from time to time, the development of this project,
which would seem to hold so much promise for the accomplishment of
American aims in Japan. Needless to say, those aims can never be
achieved without the spiritual understanding which this projoet
is designed to foster.
Pursuant to your suggestion contained in your letter under
reference, you may wish to discuss this matter with one of my
assistants, Mr. Frank A. Schuler, Jr., whose offices are located
at 1778 Pennsylvania Avenue, W, room 428. Telephone: Republic
5600, extension 3329.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
George V. Allen
Assistant Secrotary
The Reverend
John C. Smith, D.D.,
Vice President,
Japan Christian University Foundation,
214 East 2lst Street,
New York 10, New York.
7
OII:POS/J:FASchuler, Jr./rk
July 15, 1949
PCS
NA
FE

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.81)
Sorresfondenice from Mr Amith
(June 29,1949) 1 is vi Mr.
Achuler's offii Pos/5 feu 132.5
SA-3, pending arrival of mr. Aomith.
trel be fowarded to Sc/p al a
latu datr. R. helh
Pos

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.90)
JUL211948
My dear r. Suith:
The recsipt is acinoeldged of your lettas of Joe , 
Foandation wid on is being undertaken undor the amapioss et the
has on Assrican foreign palicy and ank for the Dapartmmokte
The Department has bean observing for some time and hem beem
discusaing with Dr. Jemes L. Fieser, the Exeuative Direeter at 
Foundation, from time to time, the dewelepmses of thie prajeck.
894.4212/6-2949
Amsrican sims in Japan. Nosdleas to ssy, those sims em mover be
acitioved without ths spiritual understsnding whd on thie projees
is designed to foster.
Pursuant to your suggestion contained in your lotter moder
referonce, you msy wish to discuse thie matter wish me of y
assistants, Br. Frank A. Schuler, Jr., whose offiese mre losaked
at 1778 Pennaylvania Avomue, , room h28. Telephome: Rapahlie
5600, extonsion 3329.
Sincerely yourss
Fer the Seoretary of Stater
JUL 19194
CR
Ceargo V, Allon
Assistant Sscretary
The Reverend
John C. Soith, D.D..
Vice President,
CS/H
Depen Chrietien Omiversity Foursdationy
24 East 2let Streeb.
New York 10, w York

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
office o!
To : FE - Mr. Butterworth
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
DATE: Oct. 13, 1949
1 3 1949
FROM : NA - Mr. Green
SUBJECT: Attached
The consensus among those in the Department
interested in Jananese educstion is that the International
Christian University in Japan is a thoroughly worthy
project which we should not hesitate to support. At one
time concern was felt lest the new University tend to
monopolize the services of leading US and UK educators
in Japan to the detriment of Rikkyo, Doshisha and other
international religious universities in Japan. This has
not proved to be the case, however, largely due to the
influx of US scholars in Japan under the Army's reorienta-
tion progrem.
In replying to Mr. Grew you may wish to state that
the meterial enclosed in his letter is of decided useful-
ness to the Depactment end that we will bear in mind his
kind suggestion that he be informed of any indications
the Department receives that the project is getting off
the track.
Pi
19-544
PM/R
Cat
FE:NA:MGreen:aw

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
A
JOSEPH C. GREW
(40.)
MANCHESTER
MASSACHUSETTS
G
Dear Walt:
With regard to the project to establish an
International Christian University in Japan, in which
I am deeply interested, there are of course certain
risks involved in questions of policy and personnel
but I have accepted the general chairmanship of the
campaign to raise funds in the United States on the
theory that I can be more helpful in guiding develop-
ments on the inside than outside. The enclosed notes
and excerpts from correspondence will give you a little
idea of my attitude towards the undertaking and I hope
you will let me know in all frankness if at any time
894
you receive indications or if you yourself have any
misgivings that our policy and procedure are in any
respect contrary to our national interests.
42
Sincerely yours,
The Honorable W. Walton Butterworth
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Enclosures:

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.92)
NOTES AND COERESPNDENCE RFLATING TO
THE INTER NAT L NAL CH IST IAN UNIVE ES ITY IN JAPAN
1949
FW 894. 4212
-7449
PM/R

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.97)
Exeerpts from a letter from an American diplomatio officer in Tokyo.
Tokyo, Maroh 21, 1949
"Dear 八mbassedor:
"Douglas verton, who during a part of the time that you were
here was a teecher at : t. Paul's University and is now a Foreign Serviee
Officer serving in the Consulate General at Yokohana, has recently returned
from leave in the United tates and has some thoughts on the subjeet of the
proposed Christian University in Japan in comeotion with whioh he is gathering
p some information to brin to me in a iew days. If it seems of possible
interest to you I shall forward it.
"hen Ir. Fieser was here in Tokyo and brou ht a letter frea you
I saw him several times, discussed the project with him and expressed to Lim a
thought w. ioh I should like now to lay before you. I think that your knowlodg
of he relative standing of edecational instit tions in Japan will give you an
im ediate unders anding of the point that I was driving at with Dr. Fieser.
"! told r. ieser that I think it would be a mistake to have
the vord "christian" a pear in th title of the university and to stress the
christien aspeet of the institution. I fully recognise, on the other hand.
the need of christian connections in the United Stetes for the foundation and
for the reisin of its American runds. I hink that it is much preferable that
the institution be called The Amerioan University in Japan, while the supporting
organiza i n in the Un ted  tutes might we!l be he Christian Foundation for
the American University in Junan.
" hen i sa that the labellin of an educational institution
in Japan as christian puts upon it an immediate connotation of standards
below the hi hest ed cational s uandards, I feel confident that you can confirm
from mcmory the accuraoy of this appraisel. In this country in whioh christians
are a suall inority and in muon tm activities of missionaries have been
concentrated in high degree on proselytizing. it is not surprisin: that the
miasionary educational institutions have been considered by the Japanese as
primarily christian and only secondarily educational. At no level of education
in Japan aro the instit tions of highest academic standin those established by
o ristin orgenizacions. For a new university to be launched with etrong ohristian
emphasis and appellation would inevitebly class it in tho category of institutions
in anan whioh, by reason of being primarily proselytizing bodies, have fallen
snort of tho best scholastio standards in this country.
"I see a very great need, in the present epoch and as a consequence
of the war, for an outetandin A crican university in Japan of entirely non-
denominational standinge The stron thirst among the Japanese for authoritative

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
access to the most authoritative sourees of American educational metheds and
practices is conspicuously immpressive. This country has undergone a deep
change of outlook and is reaching out for help, partioularly in edueatiom.
In education the abandonment of the former emphasis upon e feudal moral oode
has left a vaouum and an urget oraving for a continming stream o! oducatiomel
nutrition from abroad. It would be an easy assumotion to suppose that this
need is christian; but, with all due resnect to the missionaries, I think there
world be agreement amon the  ost cxporienoed observers of this nation with the
assertion at in the next deoaaes tnere is much greater prospest of large sueeess
in the introtuotion of educational methods than in the introduotion of ohristiam
b lief. If this country is to be brought into th acceptanee of ohristian religious
beliefs, the time required will curely be measured in more than decades.
I think o' thc most fr itful funotion of the Amerioan Univeraity in Japan
as bcin primarily a craduate instit tion in education. it is not poseible to
brin eny large proportion of the uni ersity students of Japan, year by year.
inco Amcrican ed cetiona! instit tions; but the Arican University in Japan
mi ht be o tremendos infle ce on the development of the country in the next
ears yason o bein the institution, nar excellence, for the training of
f tre Japanese educe ors in the hi hest traditions of Americen educatione
Teachers  ollege at columbie lmd great effeot on the soholastio system of the
"nited stes. The A ri an 'mivereity in Janan could become. it entirely non-
secte-ien, -recisel- the complement to the nresent very intensive efforts of the
United t tes Government t ide Japan in a cult ral and ed cational way.
wich ef: crts at the pree nt timo are seriously handicanped for the very lack of
on a thori a ive ed cetionel institution in Javan.
In m oninion tre shavin  the A cricon Imi ersity in Japan as an
instit tion primarily concentratin on  ra uate work in education would be
recomm ded also by the existin A  rican clristian institutions here. Their
at it de so far has been confessedly hesi ant and indetcrminate largely because
of th inderinitenes re ardin the probeble scone of oneration of the now
mivercity. I it is simml to be competitive in the christia fields already served
 the existin, instit tions, it is understandable the tieir present coolness
inot t t be overcome.
You are e better judge than I of the practical neede connected with money
raisin in the nited tatos. The christien appeel, of coirse, meets an immediate
an! widesprend resnonse. n the o her hand, I feel confident that tho large
omietions, as for example heocke'ell  undation. w uld be much more inter
ested in assistin a non-cenomin: ional, dicetionel institution of the highest
acadomic sa din tian a crris ian university."

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
Exeerpts from e letter from an American Diplomatic Offieer in Tokyee
Tokyo, Septomber 9. 19l9.
"Dear Ambassedor:
"Somet ing o! the thought which has been in my mind is refleeted in y
satisfaction that rinoeton University was not named Princeton Presbyterien
University and that Yale University was not named Yalc Congregational University.
The shorter titles w: ioh the actually took did not, I believe, alter suoh support
as hir churohes gave them, and at the same time to the broad publie the
institutions stood simply as universities. I quite realize hat the situation
with regard to the proposed university lere has gone so far, and on such grounds,
that the point can not be put aorocs. Put if any o the sponsors beliove that
Jaran is going to become a Christian nation within a matter of decades I disagree
eniiraly."

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
Excerpts from letter from an official in the Department of State
Naroh 31,1949
Dear r. Crews
"re Japan hristian University of wlioh I understand you and
en ral ecArthur serve as Co- hairman of the snonsoring comnittee is in y
opinion a most worthy roject. hen this institution for higher learning
opens its coors for study it should serve as an imoortant channel through which
collece an: uni: ersity cduca ors can transmit their ideals and ideas to Japanese
universitstudents.
I believe that if Asu ricans and Japanese who are fundamentally sound
in their concept of democrac. control and s pport the Japan hristian University
it cen become a powerful force ror good in helping to guide Japan in the right
direotion.
n the other hand, if  is University is controlled by religious
workers  cuucetors wto are apologists tor communism, they and their appointees
may lisseminat octrines that miglt enoourage Japanese students to acoept
Comninism whioh w ld in the end threaten American interests in the Far  ast. Wo
must bear in mind mat the Japanese have had little or no intellectual experienoe
of a sort to protect them from the scintillating dialectics of Communist dootrine
an o enable to penetrate to its actual evil concept and praotisee.....
Amon trose with whom I have talked is r. James Le Fieser.
xeo tive ireotor of he Japan hristian imiversity. It is suggested that you
may vish to alk ith him in tr is conmection and explore possible weye and means
to orevent the Japan Christian ni ersity projeet from becoming e "trojan horse"
out of ich mi ht emerge sunport for economic and political philosophies that
coil undermine ou sec rity in Janan and consequently in Asia. Perhaps such
organizations as the Arerican ouncil or epan can be helpful in this conneetion.
...I vould aopreciate not only your help in averting what I am
certain is a rave d nper but also in  ivin me any sugges ions you may have for
frther aotion.....

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.97)
May 40 1949
)r. Jemes Le Pieser, Executive Direetor of the Japan Christian University
Foundation, called on me in Washington at my request. After a long talk in
which I explored various angles of the proposed University I deeided to support
the rojeot. I brought out my preference for omitting the word "Christiem"
from the title, but it seeme too late to accomplish this even if it had been
wise.
June 17. 1949
Dr. John (oventry Smith, ice President of the Founuation, and Mr. Jom
rosby rown, President of Tamblyn   rown, he firm undertaking the finanoial
campain in the United  tates for the University. came to Manchester. Massaohuset
and spent thc da, with me. e isoussed at length the plans for the Univorsity.
August 16, 1949
r. alph.irfendorfer, President o the Foundation, r. mith and Mr.
frovm, came to anchester and spent the day ith rs. Grew and m self. I
qres cioned Ir. iffendorfer on variais an les of the projoot and plans and both
my wife and I wer satisfied with and inspired by his replies. I raised
espeoially the point that in times past the average academio standing and outlook
of our missionaries in the ar ast ha no been igh, in spite of some notable
excetions such as Dr. Tausler end othrs. Ir. Lisfendorfer and Dr. Smith,
al hough both missionaries themselves, expressed full agreenent and stated their
cetermination that th proposed Umiversity should adopt and maintain the highest
academic standards. Its main purpose would not be to proselytize but to teach
by example.
After hearing r. iifendorfer's presentation and replies to my inquiries,
suprorted by r. S ith and r. rowm, and with rs. rew's entire conourrence.
I accepted the position of cneral Chairman for the financial campaign in the
United States. It was clcarly underetood that my cvties would entail only the
following:
1. To preside at important meetings.
2. To sin important letters.
3. To advise in matters of polioy and procedure.
Perhans I can be of groater help end guidance inside the orgenigation than
otside.
JCG

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
Excerpt from cocument propared by the Japen Christian University Foumdatiom 1ol9
"But the educational leaders and teachers in Japan have been so long under
an authoritarlan ouIturo and military regIme that It Is Indeed diffioult Tor them
to arise fully to their new opportunitles and responsibilities. Leaders are
neoded who in their own preparation have experlenced cooperative demoeratle
processes of learning and living. Nowhere is this more urgent than at the
college Tevel. Even in the "best" universities (the former Imperial Universities)
their faoulty members started their specialization when they entered college.
They have practically no generel education as suoh They are narrowly trained
specialists. Furthermore, they are greatly influenced by a custom that places
he soholar above all kinds of work and thought exoept that whioh pertains to
their field. These college teachers, so out of tune with everyday life, feel
little interest in or responsibility for helping college students thru the kind
of educatione! evperience that enables them to face intelligently those problems
of comunity, national and international life that cut aoross the boundaries of
academic disciplines.
"It is, therefore, planned that, in addition to preparing leadere for
elementar and secondar: sohools, that the Sohool of  ducation develep a program
for the preparation of college teaohers. It will emphasise continued general
eduoation, broad graduate majors in areas such as the sciences, tumanities, or
social science and researoh that will be integrating rather than narrowing in
nat re. Tais program is to exemplify Christian and demooratio philosophy as a
wa: of life.......
"The future of Japan deponds to a large extent on its sohools. At present
teachers are poorly prepared. inadequately paid and held in low esteeme Their
plight mares them a hot-bed for comuniame It is, therefore, important thet the
new umiversity not only select sudents of the ighest quality and prepare them
tor the highest type of leadership. but also that the university then proceed in
an aotive campain to develop populer re ard for the profession and pay appropriate
for he qualit o. service.
"The same opportunities, the same interests on the part of the Japanese
people, and the eame obstacles pertein in government. They need lcaders
trained in demooratic processes end Christian values who seek to give their
lives to service in government. The need for a  raduate Sohool of Citizenship
and ublic Affaire in a nat on newly committed to representative government is
clear....e.
"A prevailing sense of urgenoy for this new university needs special mention.
ven  ith a hi hly oumondable program on the part of the ocoupation and the
utmost cooperation from the Japanese people, there are bound to be disappointments

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
in meeting a multitude of post-war problems. A relatively small, but mevertheless
noisy and potent, group of communists are determimed to miss no opportuaity to
spread dissention and dissatisfaetion, to divide and cenquer. to take comtrel.
With no strong demooratic and Christien traditiom as an aneher for their mew efferts
in government and oducation, the Japanese people need leaders wise in the proeesses
of demcoracy and the Christian way of lifee And their wisdom must be drivem by
foree of conviotion that we either work for the human values of these twe
complimentary (sic) philosophies (i.c. democracy and Christianity) or we lose them.
.... "The Unique purpose of this university is its emphasis on demoeratie and
Christian values. It is a fundamental principle in plaming the university that its
faoulty, program, and equipment shall be of the ighest quality.
.... "Teachers should atudy human needs in the community, the state, the natiom.
and the world, and relate these needs to the purposes of education in order that
they may have an adequate foundation for curriculum development in elementary.
secondary, and college programs."

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
Lotter from Mr. Grow to Mr. Larold B. Allen, Publicity Direetor, Japam Christian
University Foundation.
Manchester, Massachusetts
August 29. 1919
"Dear r. Allens
"I have recoived your letter of August 26 and I am with pleasure
retuming to you the newspaper release of uy appointment as National Chairman of
the fund for the International hristian niversity in Japan on  eptember 7. If
you do not like the few ohanges I have made in the text please inform me md I will
reconsider.
"In considering publicity on behalf of the University I think it should
constantly be made clear that this is to be a non-seotarian organization and I alse
think hat emphesis should be laced on the high ecucational standards we propose to
adopt q:ite as much as on the rcligious craracter of the undertaking. I know that
r. irfendorfer end nr. mith agroe with e t at our (hristian missioneries in
Janan, on  alance over the cars, have not been the highest types from the academio
noint of view. I say this with full deference to the r at work that some of our
missionaries lave done, having in ind svoh outstanding men as fr. Teusler and many
othcrs. y point is that if the impresslon is conve ed to the American people that
the proscl tizing urge is likely to over-shadow he purely academio and educ tional
objec ives of the University we s all e mach less likely to gain the general
intercst of our mublio, indivisually and e erally, hich will be necessary if our
campaign is to be cuccessful.
"I have constantl aien he position, and I have ventured to do so in
the pro osed press announcement, that the development of trie demoeraoy in Japan must
be besed on rislian principles end ethics no matter whether any considerable mumber
of he Jawanese peoplc a opt christianity as neir faith. This is where I think that
the proposed University can acoomplish a great deal of construotive and progressive
work in the li:e of the Japanese people and that the net regult will depend in large
mease on the ed cational sandards we adont and the haracter o the faoulty.
individually and as a whole. his is where I think the aocent should be pleced
rather than on the number o! converts to hris: ianity that the University may aohieve.
in a countr like Je an, so recently energed rom fe alism, both Christianity and
democracy, which arc inseparable, can :er more effectively be taupht by example than
by anthin hat even indireotly savors of regitentation.
"I hope I may feel that you agree with these views and I trust you will
write me freel when I can e o any heln in formulating our publicity polioy. A
discussion o ay of the foregoin points on whicn von may cieagree will. I am sure.
be helpul."

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
Excerpt from letter from Ar. Harold B. Allen.
Publioity Direetor, Japan Christim
University oundation, to Mr. Crow.
New York, eptember 1, 1949
"y dear r. Crew:
"he advice contained in vour letter regarding the emphasis on
the non-sectarian nature of tie institution is very sound. I have taken
the liberty of furnishin a c py of your letter to the members of the
ac inistrative staff :or neir inforation."

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
Excerpt from letter from the Prime Minister of Japan to Dr. James Lo Fioser.
Apr11. 1949.
".....It was indeed a great pleasure to meet you
and hear of your Foun a ion's magnanimous and magnifioent
undertakin , for whioh all Japan - let me assure you - is
most grateful to the people of the United : tates and Canada.
whom you represento......
Shigeru Yoshida.
PrimeMinister
Japanese Covernmont

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
Letter from Princess Chiohibu to Dr. Di: fendorfer.
"July 1, 1919
Dr. Ralph Ed Diffendorfer
Japan Chrietian University Foun ation
New York, N. Y.
Dear Dr. iffendorfers
It gives me reat pleasure to accept your kind invitation
o: June léth to become an honorary member of the University Couneil
of the Internati nal Christian University•
I am especially interested in the international aspeots of the
project and in the new oppo tunities for education of women in Janan.
ay I express nrsonal gratit de, through you, to the people of
anada ana the  ited tates for their generous display of goodwill
toward Japan in making the Int rnational Christian University possible.
espectrullyour
(si ned)
setsuko"

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.97)
Statement by Ceneral Macarthur regarding the International Christian Univereity.
"This Christian University is ome of the most important things
Ameriee and the outside morld oan do to oreate for Japan a future
leadership with a humanitarian viospoint."
"Only a spiritual tasis with its emphasis on freedom, becmuse it
postulates human dignity and because it believes in an Almighty God as
Creator and Sovereign o all, can insure demooracy's permaneney in Japan."
"Japan must move strongly toward spirituality and moral leadership in
order to achieve democracy. eligion, with its emphasis on the value of the
individual and on ethical conduct, is essential to Japan, if she is to advanse
in the world order of the future."
"The (hristian Churoh has an opportunity in Japan today without precedent
anywhere or at any time in the past five hundred years. And it is not only
the hroh hat is on trial. The entire demooratio ideal of western civilisation
is likewise on trial."
"This proposed University with its unique combination of Christianity
and eduostion can not :ail to play an essentially important art in Japan's
future. I igh purmose entitles it to ev ry man's support."

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
Statement by Hr. Grew for uee in the campaige fur funde for the
Internatiomal christiam Univereity
Soptomber 12. 1910
"I have accepted this responsibility with enthisieem and with
high hopes for the suocess of this major effort. Because I firmly
believe that the cause of progress and demooracy in Japan must be
based on fundam ntal Christian principles and ethies and therefore
depends in large measure on the upbuilding and the maintenance of our
Chris:ian sohoo!s and colleges, and that in turn the progress of these
existing institutions is dependent on the development of a strong and
well-administered Christian but non-sectarian university. I am personelly
ommitted to the cense of the Intermational Christian University in Japene
lurthermore, I feel certain that onse the people of the United States
and Canada f lly underetand the need for such a University and appreoiate
e rgency for etrengthening tne e tire educetional program in Japen
on the highest academic standards, they will contricute generously to
this internationsl projeote"

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
Letter to Professor Yasaka Takagi, Tokyo University, from Mr. Greme
Manchester, Massaohusetts
August 16, 1919.
"Lear Professor Takagis
Yesterday Dr. Diffendorfer, President of the
Japan viristian University roundation, ur. :mith and Mr. Brown of
Tamblyn and rown, Ine., who is handling the coming campaign in the
United States for funds for the University, came down to see me here and
they brought me up to date on the resent situation regarding the plans
for the University which seem to be progressing very well. In the course
of our talk I took the liberty of reading to them part of your admirable
letter to me of July 26 regarding the importance of approaohing demooraoy
through the spirit and othics of Christianity and of sending to Japan some
top-level American thinkers or philosophers. Your letter appealed very
much to  ose gentlemen as i: expressed in conorete form the fundamental
objeotives of the niveraity and they asked whether you would permit them
to quote the enclosed excernt from your letter in conneotion with the
campaign programe If you will permit this I think 1: will be very helpful
and 1 hon: you will v thorize me to convey to them your permission.
I have spoken o: your letter to several people who
ar: inte: ested in Janen and its future development. They were very muoh
imnressed with vour observations.
It mey interest you to kmow that I have fust
acce ted the position o! Na ional Cheirman of the comin campaign on
behal: of he intcrnational Christian Unive sity in Japan.
ith corcial re ards, I am
Sincerely yours.
Joseph C. Grew"

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
Letter to Dr. Jamee Lo Fieser, Executive Director, Japan Christian
University Foundation, from Mr. Grew.
"Manchester, Massachusetts
August 24. 1949.
Dear Mr. Fieser:
Thank you very muoh for your letter of August 22 and
for your generous comments on my acceptance of the national chairmanship
for the forthcomin campaign for the International Christian University
in Janan. Your approval me ens a grea: deal to me and I look forward
to our f t re coo eration in this important undertaking. The more I
con-ider the matter thc rcre deenly am I interested in it. My talk with
Dr. iffendorfer definitely laid at rest the doubts whioh I expressed to
you when we first spoke of it. It is clear that those direoting the
proj ct are determined to ensure the hi hest educational standards.
I believe that the University when it is onse in operation will be able
to exert a very helpful and beneficial infl ence in Japan and on our
ow future relations with Janan.
ith corial good vishes, I am
Sincerely ours,
Jeseph C. row
r. Jenes L. ieser
xecutive irector. Japan Christian University oundation
21ast 2lst treet
No rk 10. New York"

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
Exserpt from letter from Dr. Diffendorfer to Mr. Grew.
Now York. August 26. 1949.
"y coar Mr. Crows
I have seen the clinping. "hristians Lose to Japan's Red."
aocording to John Yount. in the dispatoh from Honolulu.
I agree with you tlat this is exactly the sort of a ohallenge
we have rot to meet. I am se ding the clipring over to the University
publioity department and hope that it will holp them in the framing of
the case for our oroject."

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
Excerpt from letter from Dr. James La Fieser, Exesutive Direeter
Japan Christian University Foundation, to Mr. Grom
New York, September 2, 19l9.
"Dear Mr. Grews
Your address over the rodio last night was magnificent.
T+ truched the inner springs of one's sense of demooraoy and humanitariamism.
I feel that the groatest single threat to civilization confronting un is
Communism. The Iron Curtain often "revents our seeing its dangere..."

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.95)
Letter from Mr. Grew to r. John Crosby Brown, President of
Tamblyn and Brown. Now York
151 Buena Vista Drive
Sante Rarbara, Califormia
September 19, 1949
Dear Mr. Browm:
Feplying to your letter of September 16 I return herewith the two draft
Lettere of invitation to become members of our National Sponsoring Committee for
the Japan Christian Univereity oundation csmain, havins made a few suggested
odi ica ions. If you disagree with any o. my suggesticns, please call me on
the tolephone ( anchester 25) after oir ret:rn on the 23rd and wo cm then
discuss them. therwise they may be put in sinal form and I shall sign them
wihen they are ready.
Tre nhrese "a stron- s sten o. Chris ian eduoation" might convey the
impression that the main purpose of the University is to proselytize through
the courses presented. I fecl sure hat t: is is not the intention of the
ounders. The fundamentals of the University are and must be Christian, but
if we convey to our sponsors the impression that this is to be a miesionary
entermrise with the main objeotive of making converts o (hristianity. I feel
sure hat many woul decline to serve. Anything that savors of regimentation
would injure a  ndamentel principle of the kind o demooraoy we wish to teache
ur main pu:nose, as I see it, is o hrin to Japan new standards of education.
an: in doin his we shall be in an exoellent position to teaoh by example, and
to in ulcate tho princinles and ethics of hristianity on whioh true domocraoy
ust be built. I would suppose that any reli ions courses to be presented would
have to be optional to the stude ts. reedom of religion is surely one of the
most iuportant of the several "rreedons".
I ret rn i.erewith also the list of those to be invited, having suggested
a few frther names erel for yor consideration.
Looking orward with leasure to seeing you in Hew York on Jotober 5th.
1 am
incerely yours.
Joseph C. Crew"
P. S. I also enclose a dreft ccmpain s etement.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
D
Hou h Draft of proposed oampaign statement by JCG
(for Mr. rown's consideration and advioe)
"Christian prinoiples, standards and ethics, accompanied by a high moral
code, lurnish thc foundation or any gemuine system of democraey and are
essential for democracy's success. Reinforced by a religious approach to its
problems, the fundamental values of denocracy brcome enhanced. In such a
setting, true democrae: will live and grow.
It is this concent that has insnired the cstablishment of an Intermational
Christian University in Janan. The University is to be non-seetarian. Its
nurpose is not to proselytize but to teach by exemple and by adopting and
maintaining tne nighest acacemic standards.
The enth siastic approval ane s pport of the Japanese people, who have
subsoribed one hundred and fifty million yen to the project, some 90% of the
contributors being non- iristian, is un encoura ing and heart-werming
maniiestation. Now we ar: sciting out to raise ten million dollars in our
country und tanade over a two- ear period. The intensity of my own belief
in the construotive putentlalities of the miversity hes led me to accept the
general chairmanship  he campai, n. I believe this undertaking to be of
vital importanoe to our ovn tional interests as well as to those of Janan.
I heartily share cneral ac rthur's view that the high puroose of this
project entitles it to the widest support.
Joseph C. Grew"

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
Excerpts from letter from Mr. John Crosby Browm to Hr. Gremo
New York, en ember 22. 1949
"Dear ro Crews
"I arrreciate your promnt return of our suggested
letters of invitation to tie list of sponsors and the exoellent
names hut yo have s rested as additione. he are accepting all
of yo:r proposed changes whioh we think are extremely well oonsidered.
e will present the letters for your si nature on the 5the
" inelly, lot me express my keen appreciation for
vour magnificent etatement of endorsement whioh will be of the
itmost value to us thro hout the campaign."

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Fom DS-10
Deparment of
Date
6-1-45
S.ate
12-2-49
REFERENCE
SLIP
To:
DRF
DEC 
1949-11
Advise
Note & Return
Approve & Return
Note & File
As You Requested
Per Telephone Ta lk
Attention
Previous Correspon.
Attach File
Priority Action
Comment & Return
Reconsider
Consider
Recommend Action
Copying
Record
Correct
Reply
File
Return to Sender
Follow-up
Rewrite
Hold
Signature Required
Initials Needed
See Me
Investigate & Report
Take Action
Instruct
Transfer
Justify
Type
Keep Me Advised
Verify
Legal Matter
Reply for Signature of
Memo Required
Not Interested
Note & Destroy
Note & Forward
REMARKS:
Do you have any information
about the institution men-
tioned in the attached let-
ter, which I might send to
the writer?
From
bres
PL - Mrs. Smith, Rm. 2520,
SA-4
This Form Printed on Salvaged Stock

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
FORM DS-10
DEPARTMENT
OF
DATE
2-10-47
STATE
REFERENCE SLIP
12-7-49
TO:
Mrs. Smith - PL
ADVISE
NOTE & FORWARD
APPROVE & RETURN
NOTE & RETURN
AS YOU REQUESTED
PER TELEPHONE TALK
ATTACH FILE
PREVIOUS CORRESPON.
ATTENTION
PRIORITY'ACTION
COMMENT & RETURN
RECONSIDER
CONSIDER
RECOMMEND ACTION
COPYING
RECORD
CORRECT
REPLY
FILE
RETURN TO SENDER
FOLLOW-UP
REWRITF
FOR YOUR INFORMATION
SEE ME
HOLD
SIGNATURE REQUIRED
INITIALS
NEEDED
TAKE ACTION
INSTRUCT
TRANSFER
INVESTIGATE & REPORT
TYPE
JUSTIFY
VERIFY
KEEP ME ADVISED
REPLY FOR SIGNATURE OF
LEGAL MATTER
MEMO REQUIRED
NOT INTEPRESTED
NOTE & DESTROY
NOTE & FILE
REMARKS:
No information in our files re
this college. Mrs. Tarlow might
obtain the information by writing
to:
Religious and Cultural
Resourses Division Civil In-
formation and Education Section
SCAP, G.H.Q, APO 500 c/o PM. S.F
FRUM
William G. Jones
DRF-NEA Economics, Ro. 826A, SA-1

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
3751 N.E.29th Ave
DIV OF PUBLIC LIAISON
Portland 1&,Oregon
PVI
draft 12/8/49
Nov 13,1949
1949 DEC 8 AM I0 25
6es
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sirs:-
The Ibaraki Christian College has requested me
for the permission to transl te into the Japanese lanquage
one of the books written by my late brother Lewis Browne.
Before such a permission can be granted, it is
imperative that I knon the calibrc,status, endowment, and
other important credentials concernin this college.
894.4212/11
The Japanese address is:
Iparaki Christian College
Omika,Kuji machi
⊥baraki Ken,Japan.
any information available in your Department on the subject
matter will be greatly :pprecieted : t our earliest convenience.
Bincerely
Rebecca Broone Jaulow
012078
1349
hebecca Bro me Tarlow
RBT: rot
JAN 16 1950
FILED
894.4212
91 A01 6701
CS/H
11-1349
1

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
DFC291948
In reply refer to
PL
My dear Mrs. Tarlow:
I have received your letter of November 13, 1949
requesting informat1on concerning the Ibaraki Christian
College.
FW
It is regretted that the Department has no information
in its files regarding this college. I would suggest,
however, that you may be able to obtain the information
you wish by writing to the Religious and Cultural Resources
Divislon, Civil Information and Education Section, SCAP,
894.4212
General Headquarters, APO 500, Care of Postmaster,
San Francisco, California.
You may also wish to write to Dr. Wynn C. Fairfield,
Foreign Missions Conference of North America, 156 Fifth
Avenue, New York 10, New York, and to the Missionary
Education Movement of the United States and Canada, 156
Fifth Avenue, New York l0, New York.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Leonard R. Cowles
Chief
Public Views and Inquiries Section
Division of Public Liaison
Mrs. Rebecca Browne Tarlow,
3751 Northeast Twenty-ninth Avenue,
Portland 12, Oregon.
Sues
PA:PL:GRSmith:ETC:md
12/29/49

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
NA
JOSEPH C. GREW
2840 WO0DLAND DRIVE
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
November 28, 1949
Dear alt:
In view of your interest in our project
to establish an International Christian University
in Japan I enclose copies of a self-explanatory
exchange of letters with Dr. halph E. Diffendorfer,
894.4212
President of The Japan International Christian
University Foundation. Vice Admiral Neil Philips
(USN, ret.) has accepted the chairmanship of the
small comittee I have in mind to "screen" all
appointments to tle Faculty and executive staff
of the University, other than Japanese, through the
FbI or other government agencies.
my own position is National Chairman of
the Campaign to raise funds in the United States
and Canada for the University project.
Sincerely yours,
M R
Anal.
Rev
Cat
hon. . alton putterworth
assistant Decretary of state
Department of state
Lachington 25, D. C.
Lnclosures:
Copy of 1ctter dated Lovember 3, 1949
to Dr. Diffendorfer from Mr. Grew.
Copy of 1etter dated November 21, 1949
to Mr. Grew from Dr. Diffendorfer.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
2840 Woodland Drive
Washington, D. C.
November 3, 1949
Dear Dr. Diffendorfer:
Our talk in your office on October 27th was, to me, very
heartening. First of all, I was much impressed with your splendid
lay-out and very glad to be able to visualize the central pivot
around which the activities of the Japan International Christian
University Foundation revolve. I was especially glad to meet the
various members of your staff. My contacts with your immediate
staff and with others closely associated with our current campaign
make me realize the privilege of working with you and them in the
important job that lies before us.
It may be helpful at the start of our active cooperation
to set down concretely the way I visualize our undertaking, both
as to our main objectives and the considerations which I think
pW 894. 4212
should constantly guide us in reaching those objectives. In our
talks I have tried orally to sketch out these thoughts, and it
had given me great satisfaction to have you say that you agree
with these views and that you and I see eye to eye on our main
objectives and the best way of reaching those objectives. Of course
I do not for a moment presune to deal with the multitude of details
which you are so ably handling from day to day. I shall do my very
best to cooperate with you and your associates whenever you or they
feel that I can be helpful. But my main concern at the start is
with the broad aspects of the project and the problem in which you,
with your inspired approach, have enlisted my keen interest and
support. We are aiming at a very important target and we must make
11-3849
sure that our shooting is straight and accurate and not subject to
deflections of any nature.
In broad terms the Japanese have never known our western
system of education - the kind of education that makes a man think
for himself wi th the right kind of background and with the day to
day guidance that helps him to think straight. This is going to
be no easy job. Japanese mentality is very different from ours.
That is where so many foreigners in Japan go astray. They assume
that because many Japanese dress like us and speak English to a
greater or less extent, they think as we do. That is a great
mistake, and it sometimes leads one to misinterpretations. The
members of our Faculty must be not only men of the highest intel-
lectua? calibre, with the ability to project their respective
subjects into' nind's which in some cases may not be fallow ground,
but theyc should be, each in his own right, a philosopher - tolerant,
so Long as he is not tolerant of evil, sympathetic to his fellow man

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Ralph E. Diffendorfer
-2-
November 3, 1949
regardless of the other fellow's predilections, and possessing the
patience of Job. I can almost hear you say that such fruit does not
hang on every tree. Very true, but I think we should be ultra-
careful in selecting those teachers and that we should never allow
ourselves to be pressured by anyone into choosing men who fall short,
in one respect or another, of those criteria.
This brings us to the view I expressed the other day at
our meeting, namely that efforts are bound to be made by left-wing
elements to "infiltrate" and to get "fellow travelers" into positions
of influence in the University, whether on the Faculty or as
executives. In our own country our Universities can afford to engage
professors or others whose political views may be radical, just so
long as they are not outright Communists. Our American students
have a right to learn all they can about Communism whether they
support it or not. That is one of our essential freedoms and we
must scrupulously guard our academic freedom and freedom of thought
and speech just so long as they do not become subversive of our form
of government and all our country stands for. I go along with
President Conant and his committee on education in this respect.
This is our form of democracy and it must be most carefully protected.
But even although we propose to support and to teach these
general principles of democracy in Japan, we face quite a different
situation there than we do in our own country. Here we can control
subversive elements. In Japan, such control is far less sure. Penury,
hardships and a very low standard of living create the soil in which
Communism is easily planted and can grow and flourish. Constant in-
filtration of the Communists into the schools anduniversities in
Japan, no less than into the trade unions and other organizations,
is no secret. Some of the highest Japanese elder statesmen have
written me of this process and its danger.
Those Japanese boys are malleable. They are groping for
something that they have never known and they are going to be largely
guided by what they hear from their teachers in lectures and seminars,
especially from their foreign teachers. Any teacher in our University
who is an apologist for Soviet Russia and the evil which she has
spread and is constantly spreading throughout the world could do an
immense amount of permanent harm. Any teacher who believes that we
can compromise with Comnunism and who preaches such a thesis can
inculcate disastrous thinking in the searching minds of those young
men and women.
As I said at our meeting the other day, and as you said,
Communism is the open enemy of democracy and of Christianity. It
constantly seeks to destroy both. I know how completely you yourself
agree with this patent fact. Compromise with that movement, or
with anything that even indirectly tends to support that movement,
can be disastrous. The surreptitious and sometimes half-veiled
insinuations and innuendos of the fellow travelers can be far more
dangerous than the outright teaching of Communism. As I see it, this
issue is clearly etched in white and black. There can be no gray
area in the problem.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Ralph E. Diffendorfer
-3-
November 3, 1949
I need make no secret of the fact that here and there
apprehensions have been expressed to me, directly or indirectly,
that the pressure to take fellow travelers on the Faculty or staff of our
University is going to be great. Some of these sources fear that there
are elements in the Church, and therefore elements among those who
will play a prominent part in choosing the Faculty and staff of the
University, who interpret Christian philosophy and doctrine in a way
that prevents them from seeing this picture in white and black and
who believe that compromise with Soviet Russia and Communism is
dictated by such philosophy and doctrine. I have been told that some
influential persons will withhold any contribution to our fund until
these apprehensions have been proved unsubstantial.
From every point of view, therefore, it seems to me, as
I said at our meeting, that every appointment to our Faculty and
staff should be screened by an advisory committee whose members would
be completely disassociated from the Foundation and therefore
completely independent in their judgment and findings. Such an
arrangement would, I believe, be in our own interest and a protection
against any unsubstantial criticism from the public. My thought
would be to select a group of, say, five well-known persons, of whom
one would be a churchman, one an educator, one a business man and two
to represent the contributors. This group would no do ubt obtain
clearance from the FBI and Army Intelligence of the names submitted,
just as I believe the Red Cross does, and would make its own
inquiries as to the religious, academic and personal standing of the
appointees. It might be helpful if all the members of such a
committee were residents of one city, preferably Washington, so that
they could occasionally meet. But I should think that the screening
process could be conducted mainly by an able and influential chairman
who could communicate his reports to his associates on the committee
and obtain their respective opinions. Much would depend on finding
the right chairman, and in this respect I would do my best to cooperate
with you in finding such a person. It seems to me important, as I
have said, that the members of such a group should be totally dis-
associated from the Foundation if their findings are to carry full
conviction with our contributors. Their position would of course be
purely advisory.
Since writing the foregoing I have talked this problem
over entirely informally with important authorities. They feel that
the machinery I have suggested is sound and they suggest that the
chairman of such a group could establish contact with official
screening agencies and thus become a sort of pipe-line for the other
members of the group. My friends would facilitate such contacts.
All we would wish to know from such sources would be that nothing
was known to the detriment of such appointees. I will, if you wish,
submit in due course a list of names from which such a group could
be chosen.
So far as the Japanese members of the Faculty and executives
are concerned, I should think that this problem would have to be dealt
with in Japan, perhaps by the same sort of machinery that I have
suggested here.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Dr. Ralph E. Diffendorfer
-4-
November 3, 1949
The only further point I have in mind, a point which you
and I have fully discussed and on which I believe we see eye to eye,
is the importance of preventing the University from becoming simply
a missionary proselytizing enterprise. There is much work for our
missionaries to do in Japan today. MacArthur has said that "The
Christian Churchhas an opportunity in Japan today without precedent
anywhere or at any time in the past five hundred years." The
University can and will make full use of that opportunity, and I have
little doubt that many young Japanese will turn to Christianity as
a result of their contacts and observations in the University. It
is to be hoped that those students will, on their own initiative and
free will, come to realize that true democracy must be built on the
principles of Christianity if it is to be genuine democracy. But
I would like to see these truths taught by example rather than by
any outright efforts at conversion from one faith to another.
Freedom of religion is one of the most important of all the freedoms,
and anything that savored of regimentation would, I believe, be
contrary to what the University is to stand for. You told me that
attendance at church would be optional, and I assume that this would
similarly apply to such religious courses as may be offered.
When you recently suggested that I join the Foundation
it was not quite clear in what capacity you wished me to serve other
than as General Chairman of the financial campaign. If you will let
me know a little more about this I shall of course give the matter
most careful consideration. While I shall be most glad to cooperate
in finding the best men to form a screening committee on appointments,
I definitely do not think that I myself should be a member of that
group. Its strength will lie in its entire independence of and
disassociation from the Foundation. I trust that such a plan will
have the approval of yourself and your associates.
With all my good wishes for success in the important under-
taking you have set your hand to, and with cordial personal regards,
I remain,
Very sincerely yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Dr. Ralph E. Diffendorfer, President
Japan International Christian
University Foundation
44-60 East 23rd Street
New York 10, New York

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
THE JAPAN INTERNATIONAL CHRISTIAN
UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION
44 East 23rd Street
New York 1O, N. I.
November 21, 1949
The Honorable Joseph C. Grew
2840 Woodland Drive
Washington 8, D. C.
Dear Mr. Grew:
Absence from the city has prevented me from formal
answer to your letter of November 3, which, in person, I acknowledged
when I saw you in your home on Wednesday, November 9, in Washington,
D. C.
We here in this office were grateful to you for writing
us so fully with reference to the broad aspects of the University
project which rightly should give us all concern. In replying, may
I say that I am ready to accept, and I am sure that the Foundation
as a group would accept, the point of view expressed by you in the
various paragraphs of your letter. I refer particularly to the
necessity of having faculty members of first-class intellectual
caliber who must possess entire academic freedom, but, at the same
time must be not in the least committed to the communist point of
view. This would bar them at once from becoming teachers who are
free to pursue the truth, as Dr. Troyer has so often said.
May I also express again how completely I think
communism and Christianity are at complete variance with each other.
For the development of democracy and human personality, they are
at the opposite poles. I shall continue to state that point of view
and to set it forth as one of the arguments for the development of
the University project.
As for a small committee to aid us in screening faculty
people, let me report to you that, at a regular meeting of the
Foundation on November ll, in the adoption of the new Constitution
and By-Laws, a provision is made that the Personnel Committee of the
Foundation is at liberty to create sub-committees which it may feel
necessary for the furtherance of its work. This gives us an official
basis for the Personnel Committee to create just the kind of a group
which you have in mind. Dr. John Coventry Smith as Vice President,
and in accordance with our Constitution, is the Chairman of this
Committee. I am sure that he will be interested in your telephone
message regarding Vice Admiral Neil Philips. I shall also discuss
with hin some better name for this sub-committee than the use of
the word "screening." We need to get some peacetime phrase equivalent
to that which was used all through the war; possibly just "Advisory
Comnittee" will do. What do you think?

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
The Honorable Joseph C. Grew - 2
November 21, 1949
You are right in saying that the Japanese members of
the faculty will be taken care of in Japan before they are ever
permitted to accept appointments on the faculty and leave the
country for study here or elsewhere.
As to your possible future relationship to the Foundation,
let us discuss that the next time we have a chance to visit over
these matters. What is involved here is the relationship of the
Foundation to the financial campaign, to Tamblyn and Brown, and to
the University in Japan.
It was good to see you again in your home. Please pay
my respects to Mrs. Grew whom I was glad to see again the other day.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ R. E. Diffendorfer
R. E. Diffendorfer
President
abg

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
is assigned to
POS
ED
3751 NE. 29th Ave
FE
Portland 12,Oregon
Dec 17,1949
3 21 1949
DEPT. OF STATE
DC/R
State Department,
Washington,D.C.
Lear sirs:-
—21C
On Novcmber 13th I inguired from your Lepartment information
regarcing the status etc, of the Ibaraki christian College.
894.4212/12-1749
Lnelosed is a copy of the original letter.
As I have had no reply and the importance of the request
is urgent, I am agein in pursuit of thi: information.
If you cannot su ply me with this dat: inaly inform me
as to another source.
Unless my permission is immediately granted to the Ibaraki
college for the translation of the Graphic Bible, the oppor
tunity for this book being introduced Japanese may be lost.
It is therefore imperative that I have an immediate reply
Irom your Department.
sincerely
Kelbeco (devare Jaeloed
repen dref
to pres eueen
DIV OF PUBLIC LIAISON
CS/M
nebecca urowne Tariow
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
hbT:rbt
12-2149
894.421
8
JAN16 1950
FILED
LA
- 
231826
a

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
3751 NE. 29th ave
rortland 12,UregoN
Nov 13,1949
Lear sire:-
The Ibaraki Christian College nas requested me for the permission
to translate into the Japanese language one of the books
written by my late brother Lewis Drowne.
Delore such a permission can be grantea, it is imperative
that I know the calibre,status,enuovment, ana other important
creuentials concerning this college.
The Japanese adoress is:
Ibaraki christian College
Omika, Kuji machi
Ibaraki Ken, Japan.
Any information available in your epartment on the subject
matter vill be grcatly appreci: ted at your earliest convenience.
incerely
nebecea Brovne Tarlow
rbT:rbt
