894.20245C Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In Burma Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., August 1 (File 1397)
ID: 894.20245C-1397   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20245c-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
Division of
WAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1a1, 10, 1943.
Confidential.
No. 263.
Subject: Afghans' reaction to American propaganda in India and Burma.
INE
IFE
FB. 9/23/43
6 RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF STATE 1943 SEP 20 AM 11 24
DIVISION OF
PRINCIPALS
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.2024SC/2
894.2024SC/2
FILED
Confidential File
10/1943
PS
DIVISION OF
POLITICAL SURVEYS
OCT 1 1943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

I have the honor to state that according to a lawfully reliable source the Afghans Government is not unimpressed by the propaganda efforts of the Japanese directed to India from Singapore and other radio stations.

It is stated that the Department of Publications and Information (equivalent to a Ministry of Propaganda) is giving careful attention to the Singapore side and is providing the leading members of the Government with favorable comment on Japanese political tactics in Burma and the Malay Peninsula. The setting up of a Burmese Government composed of persons known by the Afghans to be sincere nationalists and the manner in which this Government was defeated by the Axis powers as a sovereign state is reported to have impressed the Afghans. A certain dis-ost was likewise said to exist at the manner in which the American radio news from Tehran referred to the new Burmese cabinet as a "Quislin Government" since officials here are quite convinced of the genuine nationalist character of the persons involved, especially as many of them were known to have been imprisoned by the British for nationalist activities. Similarly, it was felt that reports by the U.S.C. on the doings of the Governor of Burma, presently in London, were singularly unfortunate coming as they did at a time when the entire Axis press and radio was hailing the creation of an independent Burmese state. One high Afghan is reported to have said that while the United States is unsuccessfully trying by force to penetrate Japan's outer defenses, the latter is successfully consolidating her gains on a sound political basis.

Although they are not taken in by Japan's constant references to the "Anglo-American forces of occupation" in India, they appear to take considerable delight in Japanese allegations of street fighting and brawling between American and

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

British troops in India.

It would seem, therefore, that Japanese propaganda is having some success here and that American counter efforts are not sufficiently adept to counteract it. The fact is not without importance since the leading Afghans, while fairly well convinced now of the inevitability of Allied victory in the West, are by no means sure that Japan will be driven out of the territories she has recently occupied.

Respectfully yours,

Charles W. Thayer
Charge d'Affaires ad interim

In original and hectograph.
File No. 820.02.
CWT/xwe

Received sent to DCA
