894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., July 10, 1948 - June 30, 1949 (File 1737), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-1737-2   Pages: 470   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-29/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20July%2010%2C%201948%20-%20June%2030%2C%201949%201737-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
RAW HATERIALS
One of the chief obstacles in the way of increased Japanese produotion is lack
of raw naterials. The occupation has naturally stressed stepping up exports as the
chief method of paying for raw material imports. It has made far less progress in
developing Japan's oun raw materials and fostering the exploitation of sources in
non-dollar areas of the Pacific.
Coal, which is as basic to the Japanese economy as it is to any other, is a
good example. At the end of the war, Korean laborers were necessarily released
from Japanese coal mines. Japanese labor at the same time was unionized and given
advanced working conditions and short hours. Little effort has been made to re-
habilitate the run-down mines or install modern machinery, although funds in yen
were made available in the summer of 1947 by the Japanese, while the Export-Import
Bank has indicated it would givo favorable consideration to a loan for this purpose.
S.C.A.P. has suffered from an almost complete lack of coal experts and has only
recently shown enough interest to consider authorizing a very preliminary study of
the problem. The prosent stress has been put on getting maximum production, regard-
less of the fact that working many Japaneso mines in thoir present condition endangers
future output. Furthermore, oxports say that production has been increased only on
paper. Actuelly, the coal produced has been of such a steadily detoriorating quality
that, meagured in terms of energy output, production has declined, not increased.
Recommondations: American rocovery funds, both Governmental and private, should
first ba directed toward a rehabilitation of Japanese coal mines, oven though immediate
production is sacrificed. Arrangements should alsc be made to develop other Pacific
raw material sources. For example, coal mines of high quelity end lerge reserves are
open for development in Dutch Bornco. The Rainan iron ore reserves amount to
80,000,000 tons and can bo mined by open strip oparations. South Malaya has undevel-
oped deposits of bauxite. The closed phoaphete rock deposits in Aaguar Island should
be reoponed. Southern Korea has negleoted minds and other natural resources now boing
surveyed by E.C.A.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
ARY
The army of ocoupation has accomplished its mission of demobilising and dis-
arming the Japanese forces. However, it still performs many funotions such as
helping the Japanese collect taxes and the rice harvest. In some cases--for ex-
ample, recent Communist inspired Korean rioting--only the Army's presence has
enabled the Japanese to maintain civil order. With the perpetual disarmament of
Japan set forth in the new constitution, the U. S. Army is looked upon by the
Japanese as their only defense against aggression.
In the performance of its present easentially civilian functions, the Army is
spread all over Japan. It does not have enough men adequately to guard the thousands
of tunnels and bridges through and over which its communications run. It is encum-
bered by about 26,000 dependents. An estimated $600,000,000 has been spent on
housing for these dependents, and as pointed out previously, this has been a heavy
drain on the Japanese sconomy. The highest officers fear that, if hostilities ahould
develop in the immediate future, the Army in Japan might become a whole series of
Bataans. Whether the Army could even cope with organized civilian resistance from
the Japanese is doubtful in view of the opportunities for sabotage and the fact that
it is dependent upon Japanese labor for operating mucht of its transport and in other
vital ways.
Recommendatione: The Army should be divorced as rapidly as possible from the
oconomic end governmental aspects of the occupation. It should then be reorganized
as soon as possible into combat unito designed to repel., poseible invasion and to
strike enywhere in Japan in case invasion succseds. The number of dependente should
be reduced as quickly as is consonant with the maintanance of morale.
The Japanese should be permitted a well-armed and well-trained constabulary of
at least 150,000 men with a system of control and command such that it could be sn-
trusted with guarding tunnels, bridges and similar installations. Only as a last re-
sort should Japan be permitted otherwise to revive its armed forces, even under a most
rigid American supervision. Language and other difficulties would make the Japanese

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.94)
Army (oontinved)
army far harder to control then, say, a German army, and its revival might compro-
mise the gemuine revulsion tomard war that has ooourred in Japan.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
THE EAPEROR'S POSITION
Esperor Hirohito is a man of moral and personal integrity, considerable pereomal
courage, small intellectual gifts and sometimes irresolute character. His marrow
interprstation of his constitutional prerogatives and the knowledge that he was a
prisoner of the militarists le? to his acquiescence in the attack on the United
States. On the other hand, it was only by his personal intervention, arranged by
Premier Susuki and his associates, that made the surrender possible. The imperial
authority is the chief and almost the only authority that holds Japanese society to-
gether at the present time. Without it Japan could be governed only by force majeur.
The occupation problem was to prevont an emperor from ever again being used as
a channel of authority by a group such as the former militarists. The occupation
approach was to make him a constitutional monarch. This coincided with Hirohito-
own desires and those of his palace advisors. However, this approach has been com-
promized by occupation misunderstanding of tha Emperor's so-called divinity. He is
not regarded as divine in the Western sense of the word. He is Kami, which means
that he is the symbolic link between living Japaneso and the spirits of all dead
Japanese, plus the several million Japanese gods. The ocoupation idea that his
"divinity" would wither away if only he were obliged to show himself in public and
become democratio was thus based on a fallacy. The proof is that never has the
Japanese feeling for the Emperor been more myetic or more deeply rooted than it is
today.
Recommendations: The Japenese should be allowed to work out the Emperor's
future position--within the limits imposed by the new constitution--without inter-
ference from occupation authorities. High pelace officials, who almost &lone among
Japaneso have no iusions about the imperial system, shall then be held accountable
for the roulte.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
POLITICS
In the spring of 1947 General Macarthur publicly stated that demooracy wss
sufficiently firmly rooted in Japan for the period of intensive allied tutelage
to end. What the General p esumably meant mas not that Japan had suddenly turned
democratic in the sense that the State of New Jersey is democratic, but that favor-
able conditiona had been esttblished for the development of a responsible and repre
sentative type of government.
In this evelopment Japar has been both helped and hindered by the occupation.
The new conatitution, although writton by occupation officials, has been generally
accepted by the Japanese, althoigh it is little understood by the masses. The three
general eleotions have given the Japanese valuable experience in the mechanios of
government, although, like the constitution, their purpose has often not bcen under-
stood by the public, and interest in them has steadily decreased. Political parties
have been ridden with corruption, but this was inevitable under post-war Japanese
conditions and has affected confidonce in the new political system far less than
most foreignere isagine. Japanese thought has been constructively directed to the
problems of civil liberties and legil procedure.
These hopeful developmenta se sapromised by the extent to which all politioal
decisions must pass through S.C.A.P: and the consequent involvement of S.C.AsP. of-
ficials in Japanese politics, somotires of the most disreputable kind. It is because
of this that Premier Yoshida has derirod coneiderable political strength from his
refusal to lean on S.C.&.P. advice in overy particular. Censorship of the press
has also often caused the Japanese to loubt the sincerity of S.C.A.P.'s professions
of faith in liberalism.
As in so many other fields, S.C.A.P. has also attempted to impose on the
Japenese the details of the American po:itical system without taking into considera-
tion eithor conditions in Japan or the vary considerable political sophistication
of the Japanese when working in their ow: way. Rightly or wrongly, Japan will
develop dewocracy along Japanese, not Am rican, lines.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Politics (continued)
The "purge" has unfortunately ramoved from the scene many of those best fitted
by character and the axparience of opposition to the militarists to aid Japan to
develop along those lines. The chief effeat of the purge ms originally economio
in that it removed many of the most experienced and pro-American businememen and
has thereby hampered Japanese recovery. Its principal effect nom has become politi-
cal, because dt has smbittered some of the ablest men in Japan and is forcing them
underground. The record proves that business, particularly hig business, plus some
Army and Navy officers and diruumate constituted the only effective opposition to
the militarists. But these often were the very individuals and classes singled out
by the purge. For three years, they hoped for a change in policy, but recent infor-
mation indicates plans at loast have been mooted for forming an opposition to the
occupation that would inolude these once woll-intentioned, but nou embittdred men,
plus unrepentant uationalists and axtremasts of the Left. The seriousness of such
a development cannot be ovorstated. If it went so far as to include a link with the
Communists, American strategy would be obliged to coneider whether Japan would be a
tenable military base in caso of emorgency.
All Japanese political consideratione are affected by the rise of the Communist
Party. It was originally fostered under Washington and occupation directives and has
sinoe then had the indirect but ectivo backing of Moscon. Its 50,000 to 100,000
mombers form & well-kait, woll-financed organization that still dominates the most
important industrial unions. At the same time, the Communists appear to have shifted
their major appeal to school teachors, farmers and particularly to youths. This may
indicato a longer rango poling than maa implied by tho previous emphasis on control
of unions. Ite probable aim would now soen not so much to harase the occupation by
strikos and labor trouble as to build up a mase following that could axert a
decisive influence sometime in the future if the current Japanese disillusionment
with the occupation continues. The Communists have derived considerable strength
from events in China. Thero are also many significant indications that the Japanese

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Politics (continued - 2)
as a whole realize that because of what is happaning in Chins and because of the
cold war in general, they are regaining some bargaining power in their relations
with the United States.
Recommendationa: The Japanese should be allowed to develop their owm political
institutions with the aid of high level edvice and control from the allied powers.
The Government Section of S.C.A.P. should be abolished. Among other occupation
sections, as well as among the Japanese, it has acquired an unenviable reputation
for being arbitrary, wrong-headed, and misinformed. The aan to establish a purge
appeals board, apparently with General MacArthur's approval, should be expedited.
The Japanese should be permitted to deal with the Communists in their own way, since
they profess confidence that they can handle the situation, providing it is not al-
lowed to deteriorate much further.
Sir George Sansom, the greatest living authority on Japan, had this to recom-
mond concerning the political problem as a whole: "We should do well not to fall into
the srror of preaching, prescribing, and dictating, but only to make it clear to
Japan in general torms what kind of behaviour will secure our encouragement and
help. There should be no difficulty in sotting up s small control commission which
would keep an eye upon political and economic trends in Japan and warn the Japanese
Governmont if these showed signs of taking an undesirable course. An elaborate system
of specific controls, with all the paraphernalia of dopartments and sections, and a
great ataff of oxperts, observers, inspectors, and advisers would defeat its own ends
by evoking resentment and passive rosistence. It would oncourage nationaliatic
sentiment and might well lead to underground movoments. It is best to give the
Japanese as much untramnelled rosponsibility as possible in the conduct of their own
affairs and to judgo them by results. Any systomatic controls must sooner or later
come to an end, and their continuance will merely postpone in artificial conditions
the day when the Japanese must stand on thoir own feet. "Remote control" is best,

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
Politics (contimoed - 3)
and that depends not upon machinery but upon the fixity of purpose of the Powers
conoerned.
"In the long run the development of political institutions in Japan will depend
not upon what the Japanese are told or advised to do by othere but upon their es-
timate of what is best suited to their own conditions and temperament. They will
be influenced by example rather than precept, by the successful working of demecracy
in other countries and not by the mere professions of its exponents."

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTIO
is assigned
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Advimor
for Japan
Tokyo, Jantary 4, 1949.
NeC/R
DIVI ION OF
No. 4
NORTHEAST ASINOLATTAIRS
SECRET
(For Department Use Only)
PARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: General Headquarters Intervention in Japanese
Politics.
894.00/1-449
OFFICIAL
COPY
Return to 0.  Alos
The Honorable
when Acilc..  com
The Secretary of State
pleted.
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
despatch No. 813 of December 29, 1948 concerning
left wing political realignments in Japan, and to
1/
transmit herewith a memorandum of conversation between
an officer of this Mission and Mr. ICHIMADA Hisato,
Governor of the Bank of Japan, and Mr. ISHIKAWA Ichiro,
President of the Japan Economic Federation.
Mr. Ichimada expressed considerable concern over
what he believes is unnecessary intervention in Japanese
politics by General Headquarters during the third and
fourth sessions of the National Diet. Mr. Ichimada
said that he is fully aware of the right of General
Headquarters to intervene at any length in Japanese
affairs under the terms of the Instrument of Surrender,
but he expressed the belief that the manner in which
intervention has been carried out in recent months has
been ill-advised and tends to slow down the desirable
development of democratic processes in Japan.
Mr. Ichimada referred particularly to General
Headquarters intervention in connection with the wage
bill, where apparently Headquarters support of the
Cabinet's proposed 5,3o0 yen base wage was suddenly with-
drawn near the end of the last session of the Diet in
favor of a 6,300 yen base advocated by the opposition
parties and favored by the National Personnel Authority.
This action, according to Mr. Ichimada, was taken without
warning and left Prime Minister YOSHIDA in a most untenable
position in which he was compelled to reconsider at the
last
SECRET
R-10
2
1949

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 4,
R
January 4, 1949.
SECRET
-2-
last moment complicated budget estimates in order to
meet the demands of the higher base wage. Mr. Iohimada
cited other examples in which he feels the Cabinet's
position has been adversely affected by intervention in
connection with the drafting and passage of the National
Public Service Law, and the question of the dissolution
of the Diet and the holding of a general election.
In Mr. Ichimada's opinion, democratic, parliamentary
government cannot develop satisfactorily in Japan if
parliamentary processes are frequently subject to outside
interference. If it is necessary to take such extreme
measures because of critical or emergency conditions,
Mr. Ichimada expressed the belief that it might be better
in the long run and certainly more efficient to suspend
temporarily parliamentary processes of government and
govern Japan solely through General Headquarters directives.
Not only does outside intervention retard democratic
development, but Mr. Ichimada also pointed out that such
action tends to discourage able and responsible men from
participation in political activity. Mr. Ichimada
stated tht he is convinced that recent acts of inter-
vention were del iberately intended to weaken Prime
Minister Yoshida's position because of his unpopularity
with some sections of General Headquarters and his allegedly
reactionary views.
r. Ichimada expressed himself with unusual frankness
for an official in his position, which is believed indi-
cative of the degree to which he has become concemed
over this matter. ir. Ishikawa fully shares Ir. Ichimada's
views, and it is believed that most responsible Japanese
leaders in government, finance, and business are equally
concerned over this question. The role of a political
force operating outside the constitutional framework
of the government is not new to Japan. The Japanese
are thoroughly familiar with the operation of extra-
constitutional political pressures, and one of the funda-
mental lessons the Occupation Las attempted to teach the
Japanese is the serious extent to which such outside
pressure jeopardizes the growth of real democracy. While
there can be no denial of the supreme position of General
Headquarters under the terms of surrender, it would seem
desirable that the exercise of this supreme power be
directed in a manner best calculated to promote democratic
government rather than in a manner which appears to many
Japanese to be identical with the undesirable extra-
constitutionel pressures experienced before the surrender.
As Mr. Ichimada emphasized, the situation may be critical
enough to warrant direct intervention, but if this is
necessary, an effort should be made to clarify the need
for such intervention, to regularize its application so
as to
SECRET

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 4,.
January 4, 1949.
SECRET
-3-
as to avoid the confusion which has been oocasioned by
different sections of General Headquarters making con-
flicting demands, and to avoid giving the impression
that we merely desire the form of democratic government
without its actual substance.
It is also believed that another serious aspect
of this question is the manner in which outside inter-
vention has tended to discredit and undermine the posi-
tion of the present government. It appears more than
coincidental that the frequency of such intervention
has increased during the tenure of the Yoshida Cabinet,
for there is little doubt of Lr. Yoshida's unpopularity
among some sections of General Headquarters. The Prime
Minister's conservative attitude, his refusal to partici-
pate in a coalition government with the Social Democratic
Party in l947, his insistent demands for an election,
and his general effort to resist advice and pressure
from General Headquarters have made Mr. Yoshida unpopular
and the subject of criticism. Intervention, however, not
only undermines Mr. Yoshida's position, but in the present
political situation primarily benefits the extreme left.
As discussed at length in this Mission's despatch No. 813,
the broad socialist middle group, from which we believe
it would be desirable for a genuine labor party to emerge,
is at present disintegrating. Much of this disintegration
is represented by an increasingly large movement of left-
wing socialists into the coamunist party. The extreme
left wing in Jepanese politics is therefore gaining
strength at the expense of the more stabilizing middle
element, while the conservative forces are being undermined
by the intervention of General Headquarters.
While discounting certain of the points reflected
in Mr. Ichimada's comments, this Mission does wish to
emphasize its concurrence in the view that Headquarters
action vis-a-vis the Yoshida Government in a number of
instances may well work to our long-term disaiv ntage.
It is our belief that the most desirable and pra ticable
pattern for democratic development in Japanese political
life rests in a change of governments between a conserva-
tive party and a labor party as their majorities fluctuate
in the National Diet, with the communist groupings at the
extreme left remaining always a small minority. At the
present stage of Japanese political development, however,
there appears a tendency toward alignment between the
extreme right and the extreme left. The more conservative
elements are endeavoring to form a single conservative
party, while the communists are exerting formidable leader-
ship to organize an extreme leftist group. The important
middle political aree, from which a future labor party
should develop, is unfortunately in a state of disorgani-
zation and disintegration.
In
SECRET

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 4,
January 4, 1949.
SECRET
-4-
In these circumstances, the intrusions by General
Headquarters into Japanese politics can cause a partioularly
undesirable effect. Without the presence of a strong,
sound labor party to serve as a political balance whoel
to the conservative forces now represented by the Demooratic-
Liberal Party and the Democratic Party, we should avoid
weakening the conservative position at a time when the
only element which can profit by this action is the
extreme left under communist leadership. Such intervention
therefore is thus far having the effect of building up a
communist-organized left as the only effective counter-
weight to the conservative right.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation,
December 21, 1948.
Original and hectograph to Department.
350
CNSpinks:mhp
SECRET

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 
dated January 4, 1949 from
the United States Politieal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "General Headquarters
Intervention in Jepanese Polities
(COPY)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
CF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MENGRANDUM OF CONVERSATION
December 21, 1948.
SECRET
SUBJECT:
General Headquarters Intervention in
Japanese Politics.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. ICHIMaDA Hisato
Mr. ISHIKAVA Ichiro
Mr. HOSHINA Zenshiro
r. NAKAJIMA, Interpreter accompanying
Mr. Ichimada
r. LATSUiOTO, Mr. Ichimada's secretary
SO Charles Nelson SPINKS
The undersigned officer was invited to dinner by
Mr. ICHIMADA Hisato, Governor of the Bank of Japan,
on December 21, 1948, at the Governor's official residence.
Mr. ISHlKawa Ichiro, President of the Japan Economic
Federation (a non-governmental organization for promoting
Japanese economic development) was also present, along
With ex-Admiral HOSHINA Zenshiro, Mr. AT UMOTO, Mr. Ichimada's
private secretary, and Mr. MA Ji, his interpreter.
Ir. Ichimada discussed at some length the Supreme
Commander's letter to Prime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru
of December 19, 1948 concerning the interim directive
from the Government of the United States with respect
to steps to be taken by the Japanese Government to achieve
economic stability. Both Mr. Ichimada and Mr. Ishikawa
relt that Japan's econ mic rehabilitation is closely
connected with developments on the Asictic mainland,
and they expressed fear that the vast communist gains
on the continent may seriously handicap Japan's revival.
Mr. Ishikawa said that business interests in Japan
were wondering what policy the United States will adopt
toward the Chinese Communists. There is some concern felt
that the United States will cut off all its economic
relations
SECRET

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 4, January 4,
1948.
SECRET
-2-
relations with areas of China under communist control and
may prevent Japan from trading with such areas. Mr. Ishikawa
stressed that he has no sympathy for ∞mmunists anywhere,
but he is afraid that Japan's very existence may depend
upon maintaining economic relations with a communist China.
In his view, it is not so much a question of "We can do
business with a communist China" as "We may have to do
business with a communist China".
Mr. Ichimada then referred to the passage in the
Supreme Commander's letter of December 19 which stresses
that an effective recovery program "will cull for increased
austerity in every phase of Japanese life and for the
temporary surrender of some of the privileges and immunities
inherent in a free society." Mr. Ichimada wonders how
far the temporary surrender of privileges and immunities will
be interpreted. Will this mean, he asked, the temporary
suspension of the constitution, or a suspension of parlia-
mentary government whereby Japan would be administered
entirely by directives of the Supreme Commander?
In Mr. Ichimada's view, there can be no doubt of
the gravity of the situation facing Japan. He feels that
it is necessary, however, to arrive at a clear under
standing as to the governmental processes which may be
necessary to overcome this emergency. If the situation
warrants drastic measures which may impose temporary
restrictions on the operation of democratic government,
he would have no objection, provided that the necessity
of such action were made clear and that the methods of
achieving the desired end were set forth in a manner
which will avoid confusion and misunderstanding.
1207
Mr. Ichimada then stated that he wished to express
himself very frankly on a matter which he believes is of
utmost importance for the future of democratic government
in Japan. With a directness and frankness unusual for an
official in his position he criticized what he called
ill-advised intervention of General Headquarters in
Japanese parliamentary politics. He spoke with considerable
feeling of the manner in which the Government Section of
General Headquarters has intervened in the affairs of the
present Cabinet and the Diet. He referred particularly
to steps taken by General Headquarters with respe ct to
the 6,Soo yen base in the wage bill. He suid that the
Yoshida Cabinet's original plan for a 5,300 yen base had,
so far as could be ascertained, met the ap roval of General
Headquarters. The 5,300 yen base became therefore a
fundamental principle of the Jauinet and calculations for
the budget were made upon tiis basis. The Nationa1
Personnel Authority, however, advocated a 6,300 yen base
which was supported by the opposition purties. Near the
end of the Diet session, however, General Headquarters sddnly
switched
SECRET

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 4, January 4,
1948.
SECRET
-3-
switched its position and supported the 6,300 yen base.
Prime Minister Yoshida had no alternative but to accept
this decision and endeavor to revise all budget calsulations
to meet the new demands. Mr. Ichimada also referred to
other cases of direct intervention by General Headquarters
on the matter of the Diet's dissolution and the holding
of a general election, and the direct part played by the
Government Section in the drafting and passage of the
National rublic Service Law.
Mr. Ichimada said that he recognizes fully the
right of General Headquarters to take such action, but
he objects to the manner and the circumstances in which
intervention is carried out. He believes that General
Headquarters should lay down certain broad principles
of policy and support any cabinet which endeavors to
carry out that policy. If the Cabinet or the Diet fails
to carry out a certain policy adequately of if a piece
of legislation does not incorporate necessary provisions,
General Headguarters should point out the errors or
discrepancies. Cn the contrary, Mr. Ichimada declared,
apparent agreement was achieved with respect to the
5,300 yen base. Mr. Ichimada criticized the fact that
the Japanese Government cannot always ascertain just
what is General Headquarters policy on a particular
question because different sections of General Headquarters
have different policies which each section endeavors to
impose upon the Japanese Government. The problem wo uld
be considerably simplified in his view if the sections
of General Headquarters would get together and pursue a
unified program.
Mr. Ichimada believes that General Headquarters
intervention in Cabinet and Diet affairs is fundamentally
wrong in principle. General Headquarters professes the
desire for a democratic, parliamentary process of government,
but then tends to nullify this  rocess by its own acts.
If conditions are so serious as to warrant such interven-
tion, Ir. Ichimada declared thst it would be far better
to close up the Diet and let the country be run by
directives from General Headquarters. Mr. Ichimada feels
that General Heedyuarters is trying to have the best of
two worlds, but that the type of intervention taking place
is only making the Diet a rubber stamp for General Head-
quarters and undermining its prestige. He feels that able,
responsible political leaders will become more and more
reluctant to participate in such a government where they
are deprived of responsibility and are merely called upon
to serve as yes .en.
Mr. Ichimada
SECRET

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
30r 10 1ata
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 4, January 4,
1948.
SECRET
-4-
Mr. Ichimada added that the type of intervention
curried out in the last two sessions of the Diet has
made Prime Minister Yoshida's position a most untenable
and undesirable one. He personally does not see how
Mr. Yoshida is able to face such a situation and continue
to stay in office. His position as Prime Minister has
been completely discredited not only in the eyes of the.
opposition but of his own party and the public generally.
Mr. Ichimada stated that he was reluctant to express such
a view, but he could not help but feel that much of this
recent intervention was deliberately intended to weaken
Mr. Yoshida's position because of his unpopularity with
some sections of General Headquarters and his allegedly
reactionary views.
Charles Helson Spinks

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FE
United States rolitical Advimer
for Japan
Tokyo, January 18, 1949.
No. 30
SECRET
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFTAIRS
(For Department Use Only)
EB-1949
0
3
DEPARIMENT OF SIATE
3
894.00/1-1849
OF
Subject: Hokkaido Independence Movement.
110
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit a memorandum of
conversation of an officer of this Mission with
Mr. MITAMURA Takeo, formerly of the Police Bureau of the
Japanese Home Ministry, conoerning communist activities in
Hokkaido and a Hokkaido independence movement which is
reportedly being supported secretly by the Japamese
communists.
A/MUS
The intensity of communist activity in Hokkaido
has already occasioned considerable conoern to the Japanese
because of the olose proximity of the island to the Soviet-
occupied Kuril islands (this Mission's despatch No. 716
of November 9, 1948). According to Mr. Mitamura, who
recently made a survey trip to Hokkaido, the Hokkaido
independence movement whioh was organized at the end
of the war is at present receiving secret communist support.
Mr. mitamura claims that the Japanese communists are
endeavoring to link independence sentiment with popular
discontent over the postwar economic stagnation of the
MAY 3 - 1949
island, and are ac∞rdingly disseminating propaganda to
FILED
suggest that if the island were to become a "demooratio
people's republio" the Soviet Union wo uld permit the
incorporation of the Kuril islands and Sakhalin with its
territory, and would also grant to Hokkaido extensive
fishing rights in Soviet waters.
It has not been possible to verify this information
or to check upon Mr. Mitamura's reliability as an
informant. Confirmed reports have been received by this
POLICY FLANNNGquarters,
STAFF
SECRET
MAR 14 1949
Department of State

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 30,
Jamuary 18, 1949.
SECRET
-2-
Meadquarters, however, of a Hekkaido imdependesee mevememt
which was organized in l946. Available evidemee indieates
that the movement is not a large one and has met stimalated
much interest emong the Hekkaido pepulatiem gemerally.
Moreover, there are indications that the movement has been
organized by interested groups for ulterier politieal
purposes rather than to achieve the actual independence
of the island. Nevertheless, reports have alse identified
Hokkaido communists with the movement.
Communist propaganda in Hokkaido in recent months
has stressed that this northern island will eventually
be taken over by the Soviet Union. This propaganda line
has reportedly been used in an effort to frighten Hokkaide
residents inte joining the Japan Commumist Party whereby
they could better prepare themselves for the eventual
Soviet occupation.
If such communist propaganda oan identify the
communization of Hokkaide with economic access to adjacent
islands formerly under Japanese control, along with valuable
fishing rights, the communist appeal would conceivably
be much greater. Although Hokkaido suffered little war
damage, the island's re∞ very has been considerably behind
the rest of Japan, and postwar restriotions on Japanese
fishing in northern waters constitute an important cause
of the present economic stagnation.
There is no indioation whether the Soviet authorities
have endorsed either a plan for an independent Hokkaido
or the incorporation of adjacent islands now occupied by
the Soviet Union wi th such an independent state. If it
is true, however, that the Japanese oommunists are conduoting
propaganda aotivity in the manner desoribed by Mr. Mitamura,
it may be assumed that such tactios are approved by the
Soviets.
In evaluating unverified reports of this kind,it
is necessary to take into a coount the possibility that the
Japanese are endeavoring to incite the Ocoupation against
the communists by alarming accounts of alleged commumist
activity. It is also necessary to recognize that the
Japanese have already indicated a desire to recover some
insular territories adjacent to Japan. Realizing the
popularity of such claims, even the Japanese communists
in their so-called peace-term proposals advocated the
return of "islands racially or historically belonging
to Japan" (this Mission's despatch No. 606 of September 14,
1948). The reported communist suggestion that the Soviet
Union
SECRET

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 30,
Jamuary 18, 1948.
SECRET
-3-
Union would cede the Kuril islands and Sakhalin to an
"independent" Hokkaide could represent either a commumist
trial balloon or an effort of anti-communists to arouse
interest in the return of these insular territories.
Respeotfully yours,
LorBanee
W. J. Sebald
Enolosure:
Memorandum of Conversation,
December 3, 1948.
Original and heotograph to Department.
350 Japan
CNSpinks:mhp
C.1
SECRET

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despateh . s0
dated January 18, 19s9 frem the
United States Politieal Aaviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the smbjeot,
"Hokkaido Independence Movement".
(COPY)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
December 3, 1948
SECRET
SUBJECT: Hokkaido Independence Movement.
PARTICIPANTS:
Mr. MITAMURA Takeo
FSO Charles Nelson Spinks
On December 3, 1948 the undersigned officer had
dinner with Mr. MITAMURA Takeo, former official of the
Police Bureau of the Home Ministry and at one time a
direotor of the Special Higher Police (Tokko-ka).
Mr. Mitamura is a purgee because of his prewar Tokko Ka
connections, but because of his intimate knowledge of
communist affairs he has been in olose contact with
intelligence officers of this Headquarters.
Mr. Mitamura, who has just completed a survey trip
in Hokkaido, disoussed at length communist activities on
the northern island. From the results of his investigation,
Mr. Mitamura is convinced that the Japan Communist Party
is far better organized in Hokkaido than in any other part
of Japan. Party leaders in Hokkaido, even at district
and local levels, are exceptionally well trained, and rank
and file party wo rkers for the most part have more enthusiasm
and display more aggression than anything noted elsewhere.
Mr. Mitamura was asked why the party is so much
better organized and has such superior leadership in that
area. He replied that this situa tion can be explained
by three factors: First, in as much as Hokkaido has a
typical frontier atmosphere where traditional concepts and
conservative views are far less effeotive than in other
parts of Japan, the environment of the island lends itself
to radical thought. Secondly, the island has been badly
hit economically since the end of the war. The important
fishing industry has been seriously curtailed because of
restrictions on fishing areas as well as shortages of fuel
and materials. The island's economy has also been weakened
by transportation problems. Much of the island's prewar
imports from and exports to other parts of Japan was
handled by coastwise shipping which is now inadequate to
meet minimum requirements. Rail transport is too costly
and
SECRET

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 30,
January 18, 1949.
SECRET
-2-
and is handicapped by the serious bottleneok at the
Makodate-Aomori ferry. The frontier spirit of Hokkaido,
combined with postwar economic stagnation, has contributed
materially, in Mr. Mitamura's opinion, to the intensity
of communist activity. Finally, Mr. Mitamura pointed out
that in his belief the Japan Communist Party has deliberately
attempted to capital ize on this favorable situation by
sending its best organizers to Hokkaido and by making every
effort to train looal leaders and perfeot local party
organization.
Mr. Mitamura spoke at considerable length of the
Hokkaido Independence Movement (Hokkaido Dokuritsu Undo).
Even before the war there was occasionally some independence
sentiment noted in Hokkaido, although it never acquired
political significance. Nevertheless, Mr. Mitamura emphasized
that Hokkaido, because of its comparatively large area and
small population, hes been organized administratively and
governed politically in a different manner from the ordinary
prefeotures of Japan. Mr. Mitamura suggested that in some
respects Hokkaido is still like an outlying territory
rather than an integral part of Japan.
According to Mr. Mitamura, since the end of the war
independence sentiment in Hokkaido has substantially increased
to the point where an organized independence movement was
launohed. Mr. Mitamura olaims that the Japanese communists
are quietly supporting this movement, and that a number of
persons affiliated with it are members of the ∞mmunist
party. He states that the communists are subtly attempting
to link independence sentiment with widespread discontent
over the economic stagnation of the island. Communist
propaganda therefore suggests that the Soviet Union supports
the Hokkaido independence movement, and that if Hokkaido
becomes a "democratic peoples republic", the Soviets may
permit the new state to incorporate the Kuril islands and
Sakhalin with its territory. At the same time, it is
suggested that the Soviet Union will accord a Hokkaido
"people's republic" extensive fishing rights in Soviet
waters.
Mr. Mitamura stated that such propaganda is likely
to give the Hokkaido independence movement more appeal
in view of the considerable extent to which the important
fishing industry of Hokkaido was formerly dependent upon
the Kuril islands and Sakhalin as well as fishing rights
in Soviet waters.
Charles Nelson Spinks
SECRET

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
15
PLAIN
A
X-PDS
Action: FE
Infa
SS
JAN 21949
C
9 Fled January 20, 1949
P
9:14 8.m.
SAM
OLI
R2
CIA
PRCM: Nanking
EUR
AAN
TC:
Secretary of State
DCL
POS
NO:
158, anuary 20
PA
EURX
Following Morsecast north Shensi radio January I:
DCR
894.0
"New China Newn Agency togey isnued follcwing comment
enticled 'Japanese electiona and China'.
Japanese are Likewise losely following events in Japan.
Thene two gre t Far Eastern Nations can and should
egtetlish cloae friendship.
In past, however, forces of Japanese imperialism
1
structed development of such friendship. Japanese
20
MAR10
rgressors et firnt ueed economic and political means,
Fa later military means to invade China. This gave
4
ine to eight years anti-Sapanese war of Chinese people.
6
Result of war was defeat for Japanese imperialism. But
in wake of this defeut vame American imperielism.
STATE
Amerion extendes its contrel over Japun, in violatin of
Potsdam decisration on wiping out Japanese militarism
and demcoratizins Japun, published ty China, Great Britain
and US in July 1945 vith agreenent of Soviet Union.
Amerion continued to pursue reactionary polioy, obstructing
sino Japanese ccoperation.
Hex perspeotive has now appeared for sino-Japanese relations,
owang to fact that Chinese people will soon win narlon-
wids victory. Regardless of whether Awerican imperialists
and their Japanese pawns are wil ing or not, Peoples
China will concern Itself with controi or Japan. Japan
vill have to conelude pesce treaty with Peoples China
and establash economi und politicsl relations.
Beyend all doubt,
P
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
王
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16 32918-1
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.85)
PLAIN
-2-#158, January 20 from Nanking
Beyond a 1 doubt, Chinese people are willing to omtmb
genuine, close friendship with Japanese people.
Such fri ndship 1s entirely different from gruesome
'friends in spoken of by Japanese aggressive elemente
and boot icking KMt government. Such genuine friendship
wi?) bri g broadest benefits to peoples of (garble) own
freedos ill, in faithful compliance (garble) deolaration,
(garble, Japanese democratic cause and prevent revival
of Japar se reactionary foroes.
Chinese eople not oniy have nothing for whioh they must
rely on panese reactionary force, but furthermore have
no cause to connive with and assist these forces, as
Americr imperialism and KMT government do. These foroes
or Japar
se reaction oppress Japanese people and menace
pere r Yar East.
The b st qualifi d to lead Japan and establish genuine,
clan  iendship with New china are Yapanese demooratio
mnase uniate and other democrats who
ar net staihed with blood of chinese people. This
si pie
ruth must te carried to all Japanese.
On vane y , Sapmese peorle will take. part in third
po 
seneral slrcticna. These elections will, as in
 ts nducted under violent
mor of n r can and Japanese reuotionaries. They
ef e ceripiy be inaapable of freely expressing
vi上cr
Sapapere r rls. Weyerthelene. conaoicus voting.
0a.d:08
weins p nd oulos vting Japanese
on.not
t trte inte ccount future or sino Jepanese
 and gae vole of Chinene people, when they
unropressingsrection
of pone
 nd other truty
This  htreete thelr hostility vo
Y
 and genuine
  .
L  ( r aps
glehould disregard this

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.91)
PLAIN
-3-#158, January 20 from Nanking
repressic: and elect (garble) more demouratio (garbie)
is benefi ial rrom view point of Japanese situation,
both dome itto and internattonal."
Sent Leps cment 18, repoated Tokyo 5, pouohed Shangha1
(Depnr ome is pouct Mosoow)
STUART
USB:PAE
CTE：
Po .ed to Mrucov 1/21/49 CSB

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.89)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser.
for Japan
Tokyo, January 20, 1949.
No. 38
12e
FE
RUSTRICT D
Sul ject: Japanese espaper  rerogatives in Elections
894.00/1-2049
The ncting . litical dviser has the honor to transmit here-
ith the enciosures list ed belew bearing upon a recent difference
of vic vith re ard to the prerogatives of Japanese neuspapers in
the matter of supportin and opposing individual candidates for
electoral offices.
X
Gertain Japanese offici l, ere at first inclined to interpret
the electoral law as prohibiting ne spapers from en aging in per-
94.911
sonal campaigme for inlivicual candid tes. It will be noted from
the second end thire enelo ures that  spohesman ef this Headquarters
expressed he view thet a Piler porticipition by the  ress in
elcetor i uctivitius i proper  that this vi we accepted by
the  tioyl Mlection aa meal Co mission.
imclo ure :
1. xcer' fro Law c cer
rovisiol xcepti
(Engli tr ron).
2. t tement f Jmury 1,
by Major nie . 
3. Statement ef Jenuary 18, 194
by.
In original und hectorap. to Dop pure.
31
20
C
10
RNICTLDP
FAP
ls

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 38
RESTRICTED
of January 20, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Toky, subject: "Japanese Newspaper
Prerogatives in Elections."
COFY OF TRANSLAT ION
Law concernin: the Frovisional Exceptions to Election
Campains and Others. Articles 18 through 21
Article 1. A candidate for Diet membership and the representa-
tive of a political party or any other political organization or
their branches may advertise concernin; the election once during the
period of election campaign, in a daily newspaper designated by the
Hetropolitan, liokkaido or .refectural Election Administration Com-
mission for the respective constituency, using the same size of space
as fixed by the Metropolitan, Hokkaido or :refectural Election Ad-
ministration Commissio. for each candidate.
The newspaper carrying the foregoing advertisement may be distri-
buted in the usual vay by The newspaper agents, not ithstanding the
provisions of Article 19.
(Restriction on ritings and lictures)
Article 19. No postal cards, hand-written letters, visiting
cards or any other aritings or pictures shall be distributed for the
purpose of election ca paign. rovided the same shall not apply to
postal cards or unsealed letters only containing a notice of the
establishment of election offices, a requent to act as witness,
necessary arrangements for peech meetings or necessary communications
concerning election business.
The postal cards and unsealed letters mentioned in the foregoing
proviso shall be limited lo one thousand for each candidate and shall
be marked by po t offices ndicatin that it is used for election
business.
Circulation of notice boards, un! any other writings, pictures
and sign  oards (including placards) to a number of people for the
purpose of election emapain sr 1l be deemed to be a distribution
within the meaning of the first paragraph. But circulation of the
items provided for in raragraph 2 of Article 14 and raragraph 5 of
Article 22 are sic not included in the foregoin; provision.
Article 0. No nitings and pictures for the use of election
calpaign shtll be exhibited, except the following:
1. rosters
RUSTRICTED

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 38
of January 20, 1949.
-2-
1. losters and paper lanterns used at the place where street
speeches are made according to Article 14, Paragraph 2.
2. ilacards, posters and paper lanterns used on motor-cars,
loud-speakers and boats according to the provision of Article 22,
Paragraph 5.
3. 1lacards, poster, sign-boards, paper lanterns, etc., used
on the site of election offices to indicate their places.
Article 21. During the period of election campaign, no person
shall, in the name of advertisement for writings or performances,
or under whatever pretense c: lculated to evade the prohibition
stipulat ed in the precedin two articles, di tribute or exhibit
writings or pictures cuiefly indicating names of candidates, names
of political parties or organizations, or purporting to recommend,
support or oppose any candidates.
The Election Administration Conaissio of the Metropolis,
Hokkaido or refectures and City, Town and Village may renove or
cause to be reloved for the period of election canpaign any writings
or pictures that are considered to fall under the preceding raragraph.
ROTRICTED

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.91)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
38 of January 20, 1949 from the
RESTRICTED
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, subject:
"Japanese Newspaper Prerogatives
in Elections."
COFY
Statement by Lajor Daniel C. Imboden. Chief of Press
and rublications Unit Information Division, Civil
Inforration end Lducation section, General Headquarters:
"I vave been : sked the following questions
by any number of metropolitan and provincial
newspapers: '1s it proper for this news-
paper to support e political party, or
candidates for office? Is it proper for
this newspoper to condemn a political party
that we do net like or condenn a candidate
for politier1 cfrice thet we de not like?'
"in answer to those uuestions, I state: It
is the duty of the Japanese newspepers to
comment upee, - itner Favor: tly or unfavorably,
eny clitics 1 perty pmd its pletfor or any
political perty candidete. Japanese newspapers
enjoy freedon or the press e guaranteed by
the Jepanese Constitntion.
"as to tue staterents that uapanese slection
lews pronitit e news. aper from supporting
a candidate ror office, all 1 can say is:
If there be suen o low, it is clearly not
in the ublie interest and is, un the face
of it, à sontre diction of the Japanese
Constitution tnat sets um freedom of expres-
sion ene of the ress.
"my udvice to the capanese Press is to iroceed
to stat at ru think or the candide tes and
the partien.  invite your attention to the
folloin sts tendnt contained in General
acartnur's e iear  essago to the capanese
people:
   .     
Ch I. . l .  1 G.
      D
 -    C  V I U
P.A. I. LLA IV P. 10 
DAD       Y
AADITIONs
SThIOTED

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's Despatch No. 38,
January 20, 1949
- 2 -
TRADIT IONS. THEILAFTLR, THE ISSUE
ILL TEST S UAHLY UPON THE TYPE OF
LLADEISHIF THLY BHIHNG TO THL COUNIRY
AD TH ILCLUTE ILL Y HH LACH
AG YOU  IZLNY ACUTS HIS
I.DIVIDUAL LPOhsIhILITY IN THL
GT T. CF Lln T JA AN
A ⊥V.
"Therefcre I urge the capanese Fress to follow
General . acarthur's rew Year nessage and point
out the wisdor. of eleeting this man or woman,
this party or thet Iart:, :nd discuss thoroughly
the issues."
RESTRICTED

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.93)
1E
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 38
of January 20, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, subject: "Japanese Newspaper
Prerogatives in Elections."
COPY
Announcement of the ational Election ana ement Conmission
13 January 1949
The National Mlection  anagulent Jonnission, after obtaining
Cabinet approval, made the follo. ing tnmouneement regarding press
r portin in coanection dt. the clection:
Needlcss to say, it i the true function of the press to
report to re pdlie all tse freely und i.upartially. The
Constitutio. uoant the press freedo. o criticisa. This
also i the pirit of the ress Code. It i. therefore desired
that the press at tit tim of an election especially demonstrate
their true fusetien w.d speedily an! actively supply to the voting
publie fair und just criticisa on political parties and candidates.
Ve be i ve ti. i in t  ministration of election laws also these
prineiples nat maily should ie fully r spected.
The foregoing Lposes on the prens the pbligation to per-
form its functi   a rponsibl edia/sic of public infor-
mation, at all ti es ivin poralountey to rospect for the
interests of th people.
RESTRHOTUD

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.89)
DIVISION OF
ACTION CO
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
15
y
CONPIDENDI
CHINESE
Action:
Info:
JAN 2 41349ntr91 7097
ss
C
Jan. 22, 1949
0
5:43 a.m.
EUR
P.
OLJ
FRON
CIA
AAN
TO
Secretary of Srate
DCL
ITP
NO:
191. January 22, 1 p.5.
OFD
POS
Embassy Locks upon North Shensi broadcest January 19
EURX
entis! as "Japaness eleotions and China" REEMBrEL 158,
DCR
January 20, repented Tohyo 5 and unnumbered Moscon
X
aa exseedingly important indioation Cop feer that
89
1013
demoevavixed Japan along Us pattern would constitute
861.
serious threas consclidition CCP idcology throughout
4.00
a Communized China.
Ero.dcast intereating both as to
suberunoe and timing. it breaks silence conserning
nn
ISON OFFICE
Cop outlook on Japanese protlem. Also by singling
1D19
Por subport. it neutly alagno cop and Soviet policies
toward Japan. Moreover it suavely assumes new CoP
dominatod govornment to a furmed in 1949 acoording to
2
CCP New Year's Day measage, wil tske over present
2
Chaneoe ruprepentati on on a tiec souncal for Japan.
4
x
Perhape of even sreater easnaticance is proaise of
693.1451
oconoddo velatlons wats apan.
Is mey weli be that
XR
coP plannero are nes wavsor ang ext eneive eeononte
euppore rron Ussk and are hoping ro nanimdce their
611.9331
euonomie dependence on s y extes ss of Manehurian
grains, sse! end opes e vapen sn reture fer capital.
goode, apares and techevoal eid fron politically reliable
vapanese advisors. As spanese v leltation proved, the
11
swo areas ere eccnomleay vomp smentary. t will be
oiffiout vo reeeneile p suseroct in msklng Sapan
economicelly weif-eupperving wirh she strengthening of a
893.5)
Somwuniot controlled e onosd. baes an Sanchur la and
North China.
H
H
Sent Depted, evd
Foke 7, H .
WWAPRT
52918-1

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
JAN21949
PLAIN
1-M
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Action:
FE
contro1 7676
Info:
Rec'd January 24, 1949
ss
1:20 p.m.
C
P
SAM
EUR
ON
OLI
CIA
TO:
Secretary of State
AAN
POS
NO:
376, Januiy 24
PA
EUTIX
IZVESTIYA January 22 carr1ed one column seot1on re-
DCR
garding Japenese elections in "International Themes
commentary. Art'ole asserted majority oandidates
were from rea@t;onary partles and reviewed efforts
894.00/1
made by MacArth r's staff ** inoiuding prohibition
strikes, new e?cotoral law eos aimed at formation com-
pletely obedic it Japanese Parliament. CP, which
has recently ireatly increased membership, now di-
reotly oppres ed through medium these measures.
With these e/ clons added to bribery eleotors, falsi-
ricated retucns traditional under Us occupation,
resu'te ele',tions can be imagined in advanoe. Present
Japnese c7 mpaign reveals pettern compulsory export
2449
American "lemocracy".
MRUD sam/ date publishes 1 1/3 column article denounc-
ing Us vians for restoration Japan as directed at
annihil/tion political and cconomio independenue
Japan. apanese workers, however, understand true
signi: cance plan and are organizing in protest anti-
labox policies US authorities end strengthening CP
for /lection fight againat Japanese reaction and US
enslavement plan.
Br'ef Tolryo Tass despatches in PRAVDA January 22 and 24
reported ignorance amcng voters regarding election
dotails due prohibition on posting election placards
And noted omali turnout for elections January 23.
Sent Department 176, ropoated Tokyo 5.
ROHLER
JMS DFF
PAIN
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITEIDD
TO
FROM
NA - Mr. Loryl
SUBJECT:
Possible Reasons for Communist Successes in
January 23, 1949
From the latest election reports it appears that the
Communists may have won 33 seats in the Diet or a gain of
over 800% from their previous number of only four members.
With Japan's economio condition improved over what it was
Central
OC/R
election result may be an indication that the Communists
have, politically speaking, "hit their stride" which may
result in their becoming the strongest left wing party.
894.00/1-2449
Some of their success may be attributed to the following:
POaTURS.
A less revolutionary program which had a more
broad base of appeal, especially to the small and
medium class business men. With Social-Democrats
apparently winning only 48 seats,such tactics
evidently won many votes for the Communists from
the more moderate left wing elements.
2.
With the Democratic-Liberal Party also making
large gains, Japanese political thinking 1s
evidently becoming more sharply drawn between
the right and the extreme left.
3.
Intensification of Communist infiltration into
the ranks of labor thus swinging more labor votes
to the Kyosanto.
4.
Corrupt practices by high ranking Government
officials with emphasis on Showa Denk scandal.
5.
The Government's announced program to attract
CS/DLS
foreign capital by making some of their invest-
ments tax free.
6. Success of Chinese Communists.
8
FE:NA:HLory:c1h
b
00

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, January 24, 1949.
No. 50
RESTRICTED
7
241
Subject: Transmitting text of United Press Interview with
01
STATE
57
Premier Yoshida
2
VISION OF
OF
 ASIAN AFFAIRS
E0
S.le. P.mc.
NT
5EN
894.00/1-2449
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MENI OF STATE
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's A-184 of
December 31, 1948, requesting the text of an exclusive interview
given by Premier Shigeru Yoshida to the United Press on December 27.
1
1948, and to transmit herewith the only record of that interview.
written by Miles w. VaUGHN, United Press General Manager for Asia.
The Department will observe that Mr. Vaughn quoted Premier
Yoshida as being enthusiastic about General Macarthur's recommenda-
tions for economic reconstruction. In that connection he is quoted
as stating that his Government is planning the formation of a com-
mittee to review "the cases of a number of top-flight industrielists
who were purged, possibly unjustly".
This story was not distributed by the United Press to its cli-
XA
ents in Japan.
894,5
In subsequent public statements on the same subject Premier
Yoshida has emphasized the need to reconsider the purge of village
and tovn headmen and allowed the reconsideration of purged indus-
trialists to appear as incidental (this Mission's despatch no. 22
of January 14, 1949).
Major Napier, head of the Public Administration Division,
Government Section, General Headquarters, SCAP, denied in the Eng-
2
lish language Nippon Times of January 12, 1949 that an amnesty from
the purge was being considered by SCAP.
Apparently undeterred by the warning from Government Section,
the Japanese Government is reported proceeding with its plans for
a purge review committee. Mainichi on January 17 reported that
Justice Minister UEDA has finished drafting a plan for the establish-
ment of auch a committee. It states also that the projected system
"will
DMR
rri
RESTRICTED
2
CA

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 50,
January 24, 1949.
-2-
"will liberate purgees cnly in those cases where the purge is rec-
ognized to be clearly unjustifiable", and that "nobody who should
be purged on formal as well as substantial grounds will be cleared".
3
A translation in full of this Mainichi report is enclosed.
In an editorial on January 12, 1949, Mainichi (in the only ed-
itorial on the subject which has recently come to the attention of
the Hission) adopts in effect the position teken by General Eead-
quarters, i.e., that abendoning the categories of purgees for sub-
stantive charges opens the way to clearance of many persons who
ought not to be cleered. Mainichi considered that, should the ban
be lifted, "it would be difficult to find a yardstick by which to
determine the men of high character and those who are not". It
found that "the public's estimation of a man's ability has changed
during the past few years" but it believed that "men who can work
should be permitted to do so". This newspaper continued: "In
political circles there is a big vacuum. In other fields, new men
have filled the vacancies created by the purge. The only difference
is that the new men lack erperience and are less known. But in the
political field, it is disheartening to find fledglings who, because
they have been returned to the Diet once or twice, are being consid-
ered as competert cendidates for cabinet posts. Should the purged
politicians return, much activity can be expected, but we would rath-
er see new men come up in the coming general election." A full trans-
4
lation of ihis editorial is enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
Meace.
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Copy of United Press interview
with Premier Yoshida, Dec. 27,
1948.
2.
Copy of INS article on purge
amnesty in Hippon Times
January 12, 1949.
3.
Translation of article on
plarned purge review committee
in Mainichi, January 17, 1949.
4.
Translation of editorial "On
the Purge" in Ma inichi,
January 12, 1949.
631/350
AHad en: gnd
Original and hectograph to the Department
RESTRICTED

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 50
deted January 24, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Transmitting
text of United Press Interview with
RESTRICTED
Premier Yoshida".
( C O P Y )
BY MILES W. VAUGHN
UNITED PRESS GENERAL MANAGER FOR ASIA
ToKY, Dec. 27 -- (UP)-- The government is hastening formation
of its special committces to drew up a concrete progrem to carry out
Gener:l MacArthur's recommendrtions for a speed-up in the economic
reconstruction of the country, Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida told
the United Press todsy in an exclusive interview.
The government also has obtained SCap's assent to a plen for
formation of a hew board to heer apperls of those who feel they were
unjustly pur ed umder the Allied purge procedure, the Prime Minister
said. Both the committee and the new appeal board should be completed
within a few days and should begin functioning early next year.
The government is enthusiastic about General macArthur's recon-
struction recommendations and is determined to leave no stone unturned
to carry out the Supreme Allied Commander's wishes in every detail, the
Frime tinister said, ading that he is attempting to obtain the best
brains in the nation to drew up a fessible plan for  eneral economic
recovery.
Part  the economic drive the Prime Minister implied, will be
to reconsider the cases of a number of top flight industrialists and
others who vere purged, possibly unjustly. The services of some of
these men would be of the grentest velne in freming a recovery pro-
gram beca ise of their long experience in world trade and technicel
matters.
With regard to the situetion in Chinn, where commnists are
pproaching the nationel capitel in Nanking, the Prime Minister sav
no inmediate menace to tiis country. Communists ever where, he said,
naturelly will be encouraged to sre ter efforts towards "world revo-
lution" because of the Bed victories in Cl ina, but there is no reason
to believe that the Japanese Communist Party will receive any tremen-
dous stimulation fron the victories of their comrades across the China
sen. Japanese are inclined to fe r Russien communism a great deal
more than tl cy do its off-shoot in China, Mr. Yosiide believed.
The Prime Minster said nis party looks forward to the coming
generel elections with full confidence end thet he th inks there is
? ,ood charce he will .erd a new cabinet, after the elections, with
effective supuort in the Diet.
One of the problems that will confront the  ew government, he
srid, is e need for legislation to control commmist infiltretion
into the government's tax collecting oranization and other govern-
ment agencies. Some method must be found to prevent communists from
attaining positions of power which will eneble them to sabotage the
reconstruction pro ram, Mr. Yoshida seid.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 50
dated January 24, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Transmitting
text of United Press Interview with
RESTRICTED
Premier Yoshida".
(COPY)
PURGE AMNESTY IS NOT PLANNED
By HOWARD HANDLEMAN
INS Far Eastern Bureau Manager
A high Government Section official Tuesday labelled false the
reports that an "amnesty from the purge" was being considered by
SCAP.
Maj. Jack Napier, Executive Officer of Government Section and
head of the Pure Division, told International News Service:
"I know of nothing under consideration within SCAP
to in any way change the categorical definitions of the
purge as they now stand.
"To my knowledge, there is no basis in fact for
recent speculation of a change."
Major Napier made his statement after he was informed of press
reports from Okayama which quoted Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida as
saying:
"Generally speaking when the time comes a sort of
amnesty may be expected."
Mr. Yoshida spoke specifically of the economic purge.
( C O P Y )
RESTRICTED

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 50
dated January 24, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Transmitting
text of United Press Interview with
RESTRICTED
Premier Yoshida".
(COPY)
Definite Plan for Purge Review Committee Completed - Mainichi
17 Jan 49. Translator: J. Aomi. (UG)
Full Translation:
Premier YOSHIDA, who is now on a stumping tour of KANSAI, has
frequently talked of a olan to set up a committee to deal with appeals
by purgees.
Justice Minister Ueda has recently finished working on a draft
plan for the establishment of such a committee. The plan provides
for the composition of the committee, the procedure required for the
filing of appeals, etc.
The projected system will liberate purgees only in those cases
where purge is recognized to be clearly unjustifiable. There will
be no relaxation of the basic purge policy. Accordingly, nobody
who should be purged on formal as well as substantial grounds will
be cleared.
The committee will be composed of about seven persons. The
Government is already selecting suitable members.
The plen is expected to materialize with Premier YOSHIDA's
return to TOkYO on Sunday.
( CO P Y )
RESTRICTED

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
LEB T0 1ata
LEB T2 1018
Enclosure No. 4 to Despatch No. 50
dated January 24, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject "Transmitting
text of United Press Interview with
RESTRICTED
Premier Yoshida".
(COPY)
On the Purge (Sub-Editoria1) - Mainichi - 12 Jan 49.
Translator: Seki. (EB)
Summary:
Premier YOSHIDA has established a Screening Appeals Committee
for purgees. As Mr. YOSHIDA stated there are undoubtedly many men
of high character who distinguished themselves in promoting the
sound development of the self-governing system among the town and
village heads who have been purged merely because they held office
during the war. Should the ban be lifted, however, it would be
difficult to find a yardstick by which to determine the men of high
character and those who are not.
Generally speaking, there are many top-ranking persons in
Tokyo, who were purged for the sake of formality. Since their
positions are now occupied by men who have become prominent since
the war, it will only cause confusion if the purgees should be
permitted to return. Moreover, the public's estimation of a man's
ability has changed during the past few years. Nevertheless, we
believe that men who can work, should be permitted to do so.
In political circles, there is a big vacuum. In other fields,
new men have filled the vacancies created by the purge. The only
difference is that the new men lack experience and are less known.
But in the political field, it is disheartening to find that fledg-
lings, who, because they have been returned to the Diet once or
twice, are being considered as competent candidates for cabinet
posts. Should the purged politicians return, much activity can be
expected, but we would rather see new men come up in the coming
general election.
In 1900, HARA, Kei became a Representative after he entered the
Ito Cabinet. At the time of the Okume Cabinet in the Taisho Era.
HAMAGUCHI, Osachi and SHIMOOKA, Chuji became Representatives. In
those days, however, it was considered risky for bureaucrats to be-
come Representatives.
Are there any bureaucrets in the Democratic Liberal Party who
will be as promising as the above mentioned persons?
( C O P Y )
RESTRICTED

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.83)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NA
'st
Office or
ADRGRAN
 EASTERY AFFAIRS
5737
11949
A
ACTION:NE
C
, Tokyo
INFO
DC/R
Notel- file
Date of
S/S
11 y 22,1949
818
028.19493:11 
0
30/m
RESTRTEL
EUR/X
CYA
Secrety
POS
894.00/1-2549
AAN
A-26,
cetson
of
jer
voted 
veter
1919
Ly in
before
becum
sorne
of the
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.89)
RTRICTAD
T5kyo's. A-16, January 25, 1949
-2-
desiring to make a spectacular ainority showing, did not enter mor
than one candidate in any electoral district (and failed to nter
candidatt in only t o electoral districts). Camunist support in
any eicctoral di trict vas thc efore concentrated upon one name. The
Larger parties, tspiring to iargor coutrol in the Diet, ent ered
nunerous cancida es, and in many eluctoral districts even entered
lore c: tidat. ther: the nunber of seats available. This law, passed
under jocial Le ceratic le der nip in apparent epprehension of future
denger iren in. con crvatives un cho cing off possible minority eloctoral
stre ia, gr ata favors the launchiny of higaly prgenized minority
rti The  auri  o. he ve of 985.000 (3.6) in the 1947
 el a  iv1. 1 to 3 75.000 (20.30) in
he
 i act e this resed in a dis
prop
n obof fro fo in t previous
Hou
nnA17

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS  TELEGRAPH BRANCH
UIVISION OF
NOR HEAS ASIAN AFFAIRS
Wotedl
AIRGRA
PNA
3
DEPARTMENT OF STS
A
ACTION:FE
INPO
FR
FRor:
S
Dated:
January 25, 1949.
C
5.
Date of
C
LA/M
heiling:
January 25, 1949.
PUR/Y
RESTRICTED
R
ee'd:
Jan 28, 1949, 3:11 pM
OT.X
CXA
Secretary of State.
89
We shngton.
4.00
-17. January 25, 1949.
(Continuing A-16)
0
The Damocratie Liberal candidates received ar roxl-
mately 13 700,000 votes (45 percent of tre tota1).
notting te party X63 seats of the 466 seats In the House.
The somi-ponservative Demoeratie Psrty, polling 4,825,000
2
votes (15 pereent), now hos 7o senta; the Secial Demooratic
5
Porty. visl 4, Buo 000 votos (14 peroent), 49 seats.
4
6
The fanuary 5 eleccion rortends sirnificant changes
In the domestic politlcal seene under the Occupation.  In
1947 the Demoerable Liberul Purty polled only 7.281, 200
votes (so s percent) und elcetee lti candidates. The
Democratie Party polled 6 90b, 000 votes (26.4 percent)
and elsetea 134 candidetes
Tho Soeial Democratie Party
polled 7,165,000 votes (26.8 rereent) and elected 143
Gondidutes, on the besis of whloh Lr. EatAyain Tetsu.
lecder of the Social Dekoers sie Party, was able to
establish a coulition cabinee.
The spectaculer Buin by the Demooratic Liberal Party
must be eoneidered in the limht of the folloving significant
develepments:
Disintegration of the soclelist middle sroup. et
only bos the Soclal Dehoersbie Party surferod a heavy Stoo
of seats in the Diet (from l4s o 1947 to omly 49 tode and
a drop in pepular vote from de s poreent to shout 14 poseend
bat vrtuslly ell the parby a er leaders sueb es r Waayal
To Buehire have beon defesg
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
H

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.93)
is Lr. ASANU. A Inajiro. The Social Demoeratie
opposition force in the event of a conservative vie
not only has a minority position but has lost its prine
leaders. This disintegration or the Social Demoeratio
Party may have far reaohing reperoussions (this Mission
despttoh No. 813 of December 29, 1948).
2. The rise of communist power. Accompanyine the
serious Isintegratfon of the Soolal Demooratic Party ls
the re arkable Inorease in cosuaunist strength. It is the
general concensus thet the colmmunists have gained primarily
at the expense of che socielists. hile lany forler supporters
of the Social Demoorstic Perty becane disillusioned with its
vacillating ooapronises and lack of deciaion or were dis-
usted with its many sctndals and turned to the cosulunist,
the Jupan Comunist Party also un uestionably secured many
new fcllowers is a regult of far-reachint rep-rcussions
on Ja on of conunist victories in China.
Right-Lef  alirrucnt in the Diet. The general
eleotion has in errect oreeted a vowerful conservative
wajority faced by un oppositicn in which only the coamunists
have shown inoreasing strength. The Diet has become divided
betweon the tro extrenmes us tliu principel oenters of
parlia..entary policical power, with the moderete widdle
eroup in a state o: demorelized disintegratlon. vhile
r. Yoshida has su ficient strongth to form a single
party cabinet and push ttrough the De. oc: atic Liberal Party's
procram, the comunists cre low in a position to make &
delermined bid for leudorstip or c opposition foroes. It
is certain, of course, hat he cuuaunists vill exeroise
this leaders ip In an afressive aner.
SL:iLI
Copy to: auericen Embessy. Lenion
350
CNSpinks/CCoville: hp
1D

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.92)
AIRGRAM
FEB-194
NA
DEPARTMENT OF
1
FROM:
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
A
ACTION:FE
Dated:
January 25, 1940
INPO
Date of
rC/R
Heiling:
Unknown
s/s
heceived?
0
RESTRICT D (For Department use only) F4n [PSIEHN AFFAIRS
SA/m
1-1919
BOR/X
YHECTON
EUR
Secretary of State,
Gegarrmen of State
OLI
CIA
Vashinston.
894.
POS
A-18, Jenunry 25, 1949.
Refer ence this Mission'F A-16 end -17 of January 25, 1949
revieving the results of the Japenese general election of January 33.
1949,
In attenntin, to woign the ceres of the reactionary which has
gone into the Democretic iberol triu mh. it should be carefully
noted that events in the pas year hare tended to cauee persons who
are not of extieme concervetive leening to onter that party. and to
vote for shst party, for luct of precticable altern: tive. Large
numbers oi persone vho have entered politics for the first time dur-
6
ing preser elections, any or them fornsr Government official:. have
chosen to Forn their polntical nsrocinvions with the Democretic Liberals
because o the extreme lack or orgrnizntion and promise among the middle
parties. It is the present ctete of Jonanese politice vhich accounts
for the atherence of lerg: numbers of persons to the conservative par
because nothing better is available
Certain press corres condente mas heve placed an anti-Occupation
intertretation upon the signiricance f the election ae exprescing
Japanese public opinion. de consider his interpretntlon superficial
and unvercanted. As to the laree coomwrist vote. tl ere is of course
no cuestion that it voices snarp opoosltion to Americr policy. But
convereely there is a widespcend sence  nourchensior mong nanese
towerd the commnist trene a  re denger to the co ntry. d may
voters unjoub hedly felt that the cler reet anti commwnist mandple wrtich.
they coule voles wns a ve'e for r. YoshiDa e party Tuls doon no
vay an adve: pe critique of tue colicles of he Occuonticn. bare
clined ts thine thet the atti sude  she ceoule tom ad she Cepation
found exurcs
sal y  te o eutar Losses of te Democrate
H
cial Democrate  KATaYah s cabinet tas thought by the

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.78)
Takyo'e A-18.
January 25, 1949.
-. 2 -
day detailed cirections. r. éSHIDA' cabinet was thought of as
scarcely less so. The involvement nevertheless of those parties
in ile finenc al scandele, and the anparently unpredictable vagaries
of : eadqnarte's in shiftin, and abandoning it support without no-
tic, have ben factors of disturbing confusion in the minds of the
peo s. The ocial Denoerats and th Democra's were largely deserted
in e rfsultunt state  mird The defectiors to the highly orn
ive. ad tret cally cu in conmuniste were  eat: but even greatet
w  mo annt to r. osti da, a wan not an i-Occunation but lik
wis. clesrl: ot a cret ion o? the Gcupation a men obstinatey d
二
inc ed to c cesrione to tts comcrorises conmonly accepted in Japa
nes werty me euver tee, a  n not adied by she scandale, a man un
r es i ledly a inst ever, tr ins vonm uirtic. T.ose factoru. in our o
i u. we e e detrsi orn. nat an ex) ctntion that he vill
ousce tea qu rters pojie is. it shuld be ated that, whatever the
diariultics
Jer dare t s in sect ng fron:P. Yoshida the coonera
tio. it decir l vhen the new lonssitution wrs ander consiaeration.
General Sact hur : ever nl sc co he Japaneee mablte this difference.
ad visely na meirtsim t a voul e i perttel   tth regerd to Mr.
Yus ls. no d vbt nmuic: n te eristine conti eney as one which
the ndigeno lenie  pe ece wtice m bt well brina forvard.
Pe d com it s arr elu ive evidtrce shat conmuais
senctratiou e tre vse politsel rnd verlieaenery scene is
a of  ro ortis s o e it eceeeery thet merican
polier beer e stert v  ra the si bilies ef sttorts ut the use
or os le  taer vteh u lemiller to the Dupertmes
i so coar las or p er t commanlsts bave r leriy de
voled stro. nuele
totons
an ext tmer e r ved an forare
in  am of oertsifiee o thi
elec ror is  havi o d tly t s of viee end restrained
A pol vh w edne tion as till no
fe a) in For ein r f  r a nd frarc-looi
pero in the ridele velis orer, o alt te wl uh te conservetlven
irsone the
BALD
3:0
CCoLled
Son 10 Ae

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
PH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
16
PLAIN
JANZ
Action: F
Atoaetion
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Info:
38
hug.
Control 8341
C
P
Rec'd Jan. 26, 1949
0
2:14 p.m.
SAM
OLI
CIA
FRCM:
Tokyo
AAN
DCL
TO:
Secretary of State
Otfice c1
ITF
OFL
NO:
. January 26.
POS
PA
EURX
PRLORIT
OCR
894.00/1-2
The following is General MacArtlur's official report
covering the general elections held on January 23,
1949.
 tatistica unm ry ofhe general election,
23 Januory 1949
1. Popu. ation: According to the ration census
anncuneei on 1 August 1948, the popuiat1on of
Jacan wa: as follows: Male 39. 65,452, female
-2649
40,851,4:1, 101a: 80,216,896
ANR
2. Vot in age: The vot ing age figures (20 years and
over were g ven as foiws
M: le 21,046,824, female
22,941,823 tota1 43.988.047
3 Reglsrered voters ccording to figures of the
nat iona: election lanagement co risslon, the registered
volers 1r Japar on 23 January 1949 tota11ed 42,090,916,
div1de1 3 fo1lows: ma1o 21, 05.42 female 22 036,774,
total 42.090,916.
Numbe of card dates
Uhhe : umper cf candidetes
registered by the arious pelit ca) parties, aecording
to the pa lonal eleetior tanage ene commissicn. follows
Demoeratic Liberal Party 416, D moeratic Party 212,
Social Demoeratle arty 86, Peoples Cooperative Party
MAR 16 1949
63, Soeta: Renovat n P rty C ew Libera1 Party 12,
FILED
Japan
PLA
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16 32917-1

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
PLAIN
-2- #31, January 26, from Tokyo
Japan Farmers Party 16 Farmer-Lebor Party 45,
Party 115, Independent 211, minor parties 58,
1,364.
5 Total votes cast: At 1800 hours on 23 Januery
1949, when the po11s closed, a total of 31,168,625
votes had been cast in the genera! election for members
of the House of Representatives. This represented a
turn-out of 74.1 percent of the total 42,090,916
registered voters.
6. Election resulta: Tabulated according to political
parties, the results of the general election were as
rollows: Party-total valid votes-number elected-
percent. Democratic Liberal 13,381,610; 264; 43.8.
Democrat 4,835,504; 68; 15.8. Soc1al Democrat 4,129,724;
49; 13.5. Commun1st 2,984,583; 35; 9.6. Peop1e8
Cooperat1ve 1,042,123; 14; 3.4. Labor-Farmer 606,744;
7; 2.0. Soc1a1 Renovat1on 387,214; 5; 1.3. New
Liberal 87, 208; 2; .6. Japan F1rmer 232,833; 1: .8.
Minor parties 795,308; 9; 2.6. Independent 2,007,328;
12: 6.6. Totals 30,590,179 plus 1nval1d votes 578,446
tota1 31,168,625; 466; 100.0.
7. New faces in the Diet: 192 of the members of the
House of Representatives are "new faces" elected for
the first time; 2u3 were re-eiected, and 31 were
nembers of former Diets. Following is tabulation by
party: party; new; re-elected: former: total. Demo-
cratic Liberal 121: 125; 18; 264 Democrat 23; 39;
6; 68. Soc1al Democrat 6; 40; 3; 49. Commun1st 28;
4; 3, 35. Peopies Cooperative C: 14; C; 14. Laber-
Iarmer 0; 7; 0; 7 Sccial Renovation 1; 4; 0; 5. New
b 0; 2, C: iner 2; 7; 1; 10. Independent 11;
1; 0: 12. T0ta1s 192; E4; 31; 466.
8. Wonon in the eleeion: A tetal of 44 women
andia  ran for scats in the House of Representatives
of theur 2 wemen were successful.
A. Women candidates according to poiitical parties:
Democratic
PIAIN

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.80)
PLAIN
-3- #31, January 26, from Tokyo
Demccratic Liberals 5; Democrat 8: Social Democrat
9: Feoples Cooperative 1; Social Renovation 1; New
Liberal O; Japan Farmer O; Labor-Farmer 1; Communist
3; Independent 14; minor parties 2, total 44.
B. Wome eiected according to parties: Party; number.
Democratic Liberals 2; Social Demccrat 5; Social Reno-
vatior 1: Communist 3: Labor-Farmer 1, total 12.
9. Eninont political personalities who failed in the
election. Sadayeshi Hitotsumatsu, Demoorat (former
welfare inister); Tetsu Katayama, Social Democrat
(fomer Prime Miniater); Kan ju Kato, Social Democrat
(ormeahor minister); Shizue Kato, Social Demo-
crat (r Lnis les der): Tetsuo Kude, Demoeratic
Liberal Cormer state mirister): Rasuo Nagae, Social
Demcores (former agriculture end forestry minister);
Suehior  shio, Social Demcerat (former state minister);
vo o Secfal Demcear  omer agriculture
and ror ty uln ste ). Watave Harahashi, Demceras
(former  hier cablnet Jeoretary): Giicni Takede.
Demoece roreer solfere al letee: Siji Tomiyoshi,
Demesvas For mer communieatione minisver)s Haruye
Domeere iuve ved n "Isumiyana ioeident').
Anmlyela
of slect on
Tre si rtion vas a smashing
oeveetjcal assurarce
th t vernment voue wonet wnehenged for the
n.
Fo gerre, w th  eisi mandate to one
potites pory eor bvell lbe a e fo me jority ef the
Dree sms
The most impreset pasute or vbe clee-
er
sests  vhe Demceratie
L
Pesser ervee the aharp peduc
 seats r the
ne from vhe present
and th
 e
Commn101
ae ne even a
10
borgeiei
otereased srengon
peevee en
OT CRODS

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
PLAIN
-4- #31, Junuary 26, from Tokyo
Socialists, a development long anticipated. The
extent of Communist gains from this source 1s largely
reflected in the reduction of 28 in the Socialist
left-wing representation from its pre-election
strength. Both the Democrat1c-Liberal and Communist
parties garnered strength from the disrepute into
which the center parties had fallen as a result of
the scandal investigations, which each vigorously
exploited.
The Democratic-Liberal Party campaigned effectively,.
urging voters to support a strong single party
qualified to lead the nation during the period of
economic rehabiiitation ahead, stressing the weak-
nesses resulting from past ineffectual coalitions.
The Party pledged itself to eliminate unnecessary
economic controis, to reduce government personnel,
to eliminate the sales tax, and to adopt measures
which would stinulate the introduction of foreign
capital.
The Communist Party was benefited by external circum-
stances pecullariy advantageous to the party. Devel-
opments in China, for example, were explo1ted by the
party, which insisted that only a Communist Japan
could live profitably in harmony with a Communist
China. Chiang Kai-Shek's sudden retirement on the
eve of the election gave dramatic support to the
Communist campalgn propaganda. Communists also wen
support by their promises to ease food collection
reguirements and eliminate taxes of 1ower income
groups as well as their attacks upon the economic
stabilization program of the government. The Radical
elements in the ranks of labor gave strong support
to Communist candidates not because of ideological
preference but by way of protest against the inef-
fectual laber support of the Socialist Party and fear
of suppressive measures affected by the influence of
the hundreas of trousands of Japanese servicemen
inteneively trained in Soviet indoctrination centers
prior to their repatriatlon.
In asscsuing the extent of the Conservative victory,
it is necensary to take acccunt cf the support
acccrded the
PLAN

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.87)
PLAIN
-5- #31, January 26, from Tokyo
accorded the slightly more moderate but essentially
conservative Democratic Party and the smaller con-
servative groups and individuals with conservative
tendencies, all of which add up to over 75 peroent
of the total number of seats in the House of Repre-
sentatives. Four successful independents have already
formally anncunced their intention to join the Demo-
cratic Liberal Farty.
The Communist gain, under existing extraordinarily
fevorab conditions, should reflect the high water
merir f its pciiilcai support, unless conditione
a  ce" even more in Its favor. The danger should not
ve tisee ted, ncwever. from the unrealistic and
und e v-emphaais whicn will undoubtedly be given
tno 'omust po. lca: serengtn througn iil-corceived
 ernexpte fron Moscow and
 Aelejouaism or Individuals either
n ned edirly wihin the orbit
myuchpagarda, especlally
g reaole and resposible quarters,
 e e pd to be ul y exp oired y the Jocal
Co um's" a y n  rersered Japanese preas.
ne eeution:
tcon ta ement
d e ve an take eatis
tnse
mandote
semen

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
OFFICE
INCOMINGNTELEGRAM
MESS
PLAIN
7
D49 J 27 AM 8 46
Control 8328
Action:
EIR
Rec'd January 26, 1949
010
OF ST
P
0
FFOM:
MoSCOW
SAN
FE
TO:
Secretary of State
e
OLI
CI.
NO:
197, January 26
AAN
POF
Soviet press January 26 carries ) column Tokyo Tass
P4
despetch reporting successes Jap CP in parliamentary
DCR
e ctions and noting number violations electoral law.
89
Tro-cclumn article IzVEsTIYA same date reviews anti-
Libera? actions Jan reaetion in preparation for elec-
ions and states simple understand how Liberal-Democratic
Part: veceived 262 places out of 466 under such con-
0
d tions. Greatest blow to reactionary forces, however,
0
was shameful failure suffered by right Socialists in
e ections. This contrasted with increase CP membership
from 4 seats 1947 to 36 as result recent elect1ons.
A ticle states one reason for CP success was increased
2
suppert n agricultural areas Asserting that new CP
2649
strength indicates growing movement for independent,
demo ratie Japen article coneludes that elections
forecest inevitable defeat Corees seeking involve peoples
Asia in : ew war.
Sent Department 97, repeated Tokyo 6.
KORLER
RI RS
FEB
PLAIN
1949
工
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
16 52318-1

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION CO
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
∴-D
PLAIN
N
Action: FE
Infce
Control 8428
SE
心
nAf
P
7:54 p.m.
0
SAM
AUR
FROM:
Shnghai
OLI
CIA
TO:
Seonetary of State
AAN
POS
NO:
256, January 26
PA
EURX
China pvess English language Kung organ January 26
DCR
ecitorial opines that Japanese elections show that
89
"the Japanese Communists have taken heart by the
recent developments in China" and asserts that "the
4.00
growth of Communist representation in the Japanese
Diet 1s duo more to the encouragement they have re-
ceived by the Red vietorles in China than to general
opposition to the policies of the oceupation.
British controlled Hovth China DAlLy MEWS January 26
1
editoria ly declares that if there is any conclusion
2
to be drawn from the elections
"it must be that the
9
Conmunistn. though in ne powerfu pesition, now
4
constitute a political force vhich will have to be
6
reckonee with."
Intensified antagomism between the extreme right and
extreme leit in Japanese polities ane impressive
gains by leftiss e ements at the expense of the
middle-cf-the-road group are election results
stresser to todav s editorlals n SBtn PAo KMT
supervleed do jourea
 CH YANG YEH PAO. KMT
organ.
Sent Nerking
, wepeates Depertment e56.
CABOT
MAR 161
DES: VRS
FILEDHH
PIAYN
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
121-1

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.80)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND REOORDS
EVELEG
IRGP.M SENT
From:
Paris
Date: Januapy 28, 1949
2
UNCLASSL IED
Rec'd: my, 1949, 5:36 P
A
Hailed:  Jan 31, 1949
ATN:EUR
SECSTATE
INFC
E
DCA
心
A=184
0
SA
Exarinine the genesel cleetions vhich took place
EOR/E
in Jupun on Juauary as Fer the pepoval of the Lower
FE
House, sumi orlicial  oimds in the lead editorial of
CLY
its Jamuerpr co issue comstdoes tham do brilliant success
CIA
for the Mighe a defest for the modemates - porticularly
UNA
the soei llsts  and wi eolnet progros for the Communists",
USTH
and cone uuoos shut she bsoluto ma jo isy of the liberal
5
purty vitl onuble Jup n o vise out p the political in-
8
POS
stability whielt in the pmet four yours hes caused five
6
PA
ministevlal erl ses wne shseo genoral eleesions.
4
AAH
ourse or reflcetion in
0
21009
To woeala tm t Jupan ss expevi
0
LIVIUAN OF
last Sunday s voting.
ame for the rivst time and thut
NORTHEASTBIANAFFAIRS
to Juoa cso publio opinion
it is bot pesslole to
hoted gile
which n sbill vaserbujs srdt wuvorius. as ie soen by the
EB111949
le enthueiusse
2
vote fos tha Danter in
gil 7 und. in this
88
suppory oa he soeislises in
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
last eisc ntion. the wws ton to the ex cemtet parties tIn
4
 w  y 
6
uddibion, bbe Concouvine
Paring the past
aton Sed
the clase sorogele whson
y 1947-Oetober
your."
o mopresonsing
1946
Ia had
the modoeo to p woise
beon oxreetod thet
the soelnljsts would
so bes about
which followed
cenerel sovake
Loet váng nova
wing
1.0
1to
Liniston
took pe co
contrel wnton neth
dertne 1040.
canaootul se tdols
FILED
eireles, pemoeous
9
15
CG
工
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned-to DC/R. central fles witb notation of action taken.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.78)
-2-
L I obs points out, however, that this now
to the Ri ht dous not represont a reaurreotion of pre
wur Jupun. Aocordi g to most obsorvers Japan does no
want to return to te pust: it suffured too much from
its vilitavistie u  unture und  a convinced that its
beut chunce for the future lie, in collaboration with
its (ccupiure L. Mis warus, hove ver, that while
coll bor tine. uh shida Cubi ot lll be more exaoting
alnd ase pltunt t uny or ite p e acessors. It will
ulvo erert trm  inton t ul sito tion in the
Puretnt n tcorounists re
viet rle  o
 pu uee sdl rtumes the role
ti
oygainir
o Pacom 1r 
R
 exceed the
fい
by
o tiof etlc1 of
893.00
to
so the inf dence
s perhops a the
gt
 ri:I re ume
1.h
: epor of tho
1.1
t sne voly
2o 7 .
s0
.1

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.86)
Deepatch No. 40
AmesLcan Nie
RESTRICTED
Seoul, Jamary 28.
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIANLAIFA
F5B3-1949
RECEIVE!
1F
DEPARTMENT OR STANE
The Honorable
11
The Secretary c: state,
Hsshington.
L
Sir:
7
π
6
I lave the noner t rsnit nerewith a copy of a note pr
OLI
sented to the Korean Fcreien uffice uy this Mission at the roquest
of the supreme Jom ander for the ilieu Powers in Japan, relative
to the extradition of two korean tiorals believed residing in
Xorea ans wnted for criinel ectivities by Japanese authorities.
The memorandum Irom the United States Folitical Advisor in
Tokyo, who forwerded the request of the supreme Commander, indicated
its llerstanuin tat in the absence of a treaty of extradition
between sCAF und the Korean Jovernment the latter was under no
Llition to r turn t 1igitives to sCAf representatives. It
went on to a tht the rene ommnder wa not willing to
promise the Kore Govermment, even in the avent of its rendition
of the fueitiver, t.t it would reciprocelly in the future honor
similar extruition re. lests of t Aore vernment presented
to SCAF.
The nott to the Koreen I reien Ofii thereiore broaches the
requect us a stter ot conity otrerr.  tir in mutuel desire
to see sccomplished t fw. atnl principles of justice to which
both countries mutserite. I ti meller dum  this Mission to
the Politie i Advieor in Jpan portine on the action taken on
its recuest it wus ts st it ipossille thet the Korean Gov-
ernment mey shortly vis. te  t reque to oAf for extra
ition of Koreans resilent in Japn who cr  ted in korea for
ti ler   tiocl Tryitorls Act (reicrence Mission
Descatch No. e7. Jenunry 1, 1949). It wes askei oi the Folitical
Advisor tt should sny sud. re leet be reccived fron the Korean
Diplon tie Misrion in J pan the detaiis first te forwarded this
ison bere s iro sn is ivn in view or the delicate
pliticel tire of the  tior1 Pritert at prosecutions in Kored.
Rrectlly re.
ro: the  ecial Rprosenterve:
losure
ounselor of Miss
cory si note.
161940
rigi-i
prtent
E rkoed
MESTRICTED

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.91)
Emclosure to Deapatch No. No, Jamm
in Korea, Subject: Transmission of Nete te
To. 21
The American Mission in Korea presents its compliments to
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korea and hes
the honor to forward a request of the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers in Japan for the apprehension and rendition to his
representatives of two Korean nations, accused of various crimes
in Japan, and now believed in hiding in Korea.
The two koreans whose return is requested are LEE Kil Moon
) and KANG Yong Soo (
). The former
is reportedly domiciled at No. 133. Tooho Ri, Ma-am Myun, Kosung
Goon, Kyungsang amdo. The latter may be resident in Saengnim
Myun, Keunhae Goon, Kyungsang Namd. oth persons are belioved
to frequent the following addresses given with their Japanese
names: No. 14. 2nd-chome, Tori-cho, Mcsan City, Kyungsang Namdo;
and No. 25. Bonichi-cho, Fusan City, Kyungsang amdo. Mr. Lee i
descrived as atout 3f years of ago; five feet, seven inches tall
(alout 17) centimeters); dark, square face; wears horm-rimmed
spectacles; rair parted at tue side. Mr. Kang is reported to be
eitier 42 or 43 years of age; five feet, two inches tall (about
158 centimeters); aark, rounå face; nair arted at the side.
Mr. Lee is, at tue present time, on protation from a Japanese prison
to which ic wes sentenced to a six yeer term for theft in 1944.
Mr. Kang is the husband of Mr. ee's sister, LE Moon Sun, now
resident in Korea.
Both of the aforementioned individuals together with three
other Korean nationals, resident in Jspn, nd  resently in cus-
tody, are Lelieved to have forged hecks, nd thereby defrauded.
thirty-t anks in Jrpan in the 1ount of Y 10,235,000 during
March 1glig. With the hope of escaping to Korer, this sum of money
was converted into gol! bullion, JeweIry, Looks, :nd pencile,
which the tive persons accusea intended to smugale into Korea
phear? a fishire veosel whiel. they purelr sea for this purcose.
Refore 1l ormnrements for  rt ur  re oletca, three of
the ccouced were capturee  uop co police catherities. Hr. Lee
nd Kr. Kre. tocetior wit ths v Ir ris tel. succeeded in
smuerline themscIvee t Kr  i. Their sueces is testi-
fid to by eetle fro .  in o. y Pukdo on
Pay 17, 1ous, to a frid io  pn s re ueste to look after
one  the three  tives.whe is r. Is trotar. mis celle
wes intercepted ly 
This Miesion is ei   i et tst since the este
lisnent of the ver et f t  allie  poree or august l.
tke, thore e not t a el nt the por treaty of
 t    the Repulie of rce
1:et

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure to Despatch No. ho, Jamasy 28, 1
in Koree, Subject: Transmission of Wote to
Supreme Commander, have only within the last several days dege
for their post at Tokyo. It is, furthermore, recogaised, that is
the absence of such a treaty, the Government of the Republie of
Korea is under no legal obligation to comply with the request of
the Supreme Commander for extraditon.
It is thought, however, especially in view of the apparent
violation by the accused individuals of the customs and exchange
laws of the Republic of Korea, that your Government may wish, as
a matter of omity and as evidence of its desire to see justice
accomplished, as expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of
Kores, to apprenend the fugitives concerned, and deliver them to
tho appointed representatives of the Supreme Commander. Although
this Mission is not euthorized to comuit the supreme Commander for
tie Allied Fowers in Japn with regard to his future actions, it
is felt thet fevoraole actior y the Government of the Republic
of Korer in this cese may estcllish a basis for reciprocal action
ty the Suprcre Comnrder snould such occesion : rise, pending the
negotirtion of a tresty of extrrdition.
As of possitle assistance to your Governrent in reaching ε
Jecision in thi: n t'er, there are attached hereto the following
docunente:
1. Letter, in English, irted June . 1948 from the Office
of the Hiroshim Chief Frocurter to the omi ndine Officer.
Firoshime (United Stetes Army) Milit ry Government Team, reguesting
the latter's assistance in eficcti the return to Japan of the
two fugitive Korean n tiorals sccused;
?. Jepanese text, togetiar witi. nelish. translation, of
 letter dated Septemter 1948 from the Hiroshi a District Chief
Frocumtor to the Comman ing Officer, Hiroshima (United states
Army) Military Governient Team, providile the texts of affidavits,
facts, ena charges invivea in the sid care;
3. Letter, in ine isl, nte Novenber 16, 1948, from the
attorney Generel of the Juptnese Government to the Chief, Le i
Jetion, supreme Jomanl lied Iwers, reguestin the latter's
assistance in effe tin lie riturn to  of the two fugitives.
Enclsures:
Letter dated June . 1543 (described at v)
Japanese text with n lisi. translstion
of letter dated S, telter i49 (deserileu sbove)
Letter te Noveier 16, 14s (crire stove)
A erien Mission in a r,

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.91)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
OF EUROPEAN AFFA
MESSAGE CENTER
TOM: MOSGOW,
1949 FEB 9 PM J2 51
D.TD: Janugry 2
DSP.TO.LD:January
OF STATE
RESTRICTD
RECIVED:
Feb. 8, 1949 5:12pm
3
Joorutary of State,
P
ashington, D. 0.
ACTION EJR
INFO
-92, January 29, 1949.
DC,:
0
The joviet press iaterpret tion of the rusults of
EUR/X
the roceit Japanese parlianentary eleotions is outlined
FE
in tie closiag paragrapns of a long article on Japan
OLI
enti led "Dangerous Shoots", walch appears in the
CIA
Janu ry Z6th lesue of tao Literary Gazette. The
F
sutr  the artiole,. markov, desoribes the re
894.00/1-2949
POS
sult, as "tne most eloquent eviienoe of the growth and
PA
consolidution cf democratic for as", and as a "hard
AAN
bl ow for Japauese and internaticnal reaotion".
s was to be expected, sovlot propeganda pla yed
up te rine-fold incraase in t s nunber of Jommunist
doputies eleotod to xurliauent (rrom 4 to 3o). Thus,
merkov deseribes tue tos canpoelsion or rarliament as
folows: "ltmough tle nulerio reponderance in the
new varlianent, as a recult  mbridied ansi-denpcratio
terr vnd ey ry cin  freudulent device, raaains on
tue ide or the reucticuary psr es, tae Couumunist Party
in sose eles ions receivod 9 tlmes more deputy sease
tmn in slo Le4? elootions!" Iis, he continues, is an
important succers for t e prograssive foroes of Japan.
whiet, however, would ave been atill greator hed the
prograssive forees bsun supportud iastecd of subjeoted
to Posrussios
It is also to be expacted snt t.e Gonmunis saow
Ing n the Japanese lections wLil Jo further exploited,
in combination witn the nuuorous repc rts or rising Com-
mulint darty uembers ip nd tra sfore to lae Comaunist
Fart o roninont Janog iatlotuala w lich  ve
peen appeariag rocentiy in sne dovist sress, to prove to
cova  reeders that Jomauni em is advanci  avift y in
Jo  io a pite of all Us effort: at sappression.
FEB 14 1949
è
H
ouy to Tokye
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must De returned To DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
DIVISION OF
ACTION C
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
PLAIN
20
Control 212
Action: EUR
Reo'd Pab. 1, 1949
Info
10:36 a.m.
P
AM
FROM:
Moscow
FE
OLI
TO:
Secretary of State
CIA
POS
NO:
254, February 1
PA
DCR
One-third column Tokyo Tass deapatch IZVESTIYA Feb. 1
reports Jap CP proposal United Front with Socialist
894.00/2-149
and Worker Peasant Parties and outlines CP's 13 point
programme of common struggle.
Repeated Tokyo 9.
KOHLER
1949 FLB 1
CSB:RT
OF EUROPEAN
IRS
FEB 4 1949
PLAIN
HH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
10 52014-1
U. S. GOVERHMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION CO
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
18
PLAIN
N
NA
DIVISION OF
Action: FE
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS Contro1 528
Info:
ss
FEB-2J949
Rec'd February 2, 1949
C
1:47 a.m.
P
0
FROM:
Shangh DEPARTMENT  STAE
21110101
SAM
L
TO:
secretary
of State
UNA
OLI
NO:
339, February 1
CIA
Depe cn Foate
AAN
TA KUNG PAo January 28 editorial predicts that the
POS
victorious congervative elements in Japan will oppose
PA
US control especially in economic matters and that
EURX
"the inevitabie conflict of interests between American
DCR
and Japanese capitalists" will come to a head. While
894.00/
deploring the defeat of the middle of-the-road parties
the paper deelares that the most significant election
resuit was the victory of the Japanese Communist Party
which is deseribed as "the mainstay against aggression
and militarism as well as the vanguard against feudalism
and fascism" and whose three million supporters are
called "the core of the influence that is to re-mould
2
Japan.
i
TUNG NAN JIH PAO. Kucmintang southeast China organ.
149
January 28 editorial, "rebirth of fascism" expects
that "under the control of rightist conservative po-
litical influence Japan wiil once more tread the path
of faseism while at the same time the strength of
Communism wi I alse grow with the passage or time",
produeing a severe conflict between the two forees.
The Jourhai fears that "in the twinki ing of an eye
militariom wall again be rampant in Japan.
Sent Nanking 258, pepenbed Department 339, Tolkyo 29.
CABOP
EMB:EC
PAN
手
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.94)
ON
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS United State Plitieel Advl
botel. fle
for Japan
Tokyo, February 5, 1949.
R/R
No. 79
DEPARTMENT
ARIMENT
SECRET (For Department use only)
STAIE
2
H
C
OF
Subject: Assassination of Prominent Korean Rightist Leader in Je
XR
0
T
7no dit Bel dec
Lr.
EN
S
89500
23
The Honorable
not Proces
The Secretary of State,
1949
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a copy of an intelligene repert
dated January 14, 1949, prepared by the G-2 Seetion of Geheral
Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, in regard
to the assassination in Tokyo on January 13, 1949, of GEN Ko She
(alias HYUN Ho Sup).
Gen was a prominent leader in the Kansai area of the rightis
Korean Residents Union. Interested officials of this Headquartere.
state that the motive for Gen's murder was political. Gen had is
curred enmity of the leftist League of Koreans Residing in Japam
and its satellite Youth League by his intensive anti-communist
efforts in the Kobe-Osaka region and had allegedly become a marked
man after a scuffle some months ago in Kobe in which a Korean leist
was killed by the Japanese police. Gen's murderer has not been apr
hended, but there appears to be reason to believe that ISHIMATS
Marino (Korean), a prominent communist leader of the Korean Demeeratie
Youth League, procured the services of a hired assassin frem Kore
for the purposes of this crime. Headquarters officials also state
that Japanese police have made little progress in this case and
seem reluctant to pursue it vigorously.
The immediate offect of this assassination has been to unnerve
leaders of the Korean Residents Union, several of whom have resigmed.
It is rumored that the Korean League has published a list of Korean
rightists whom it intends to assassinate and that this list includes
the name of the new Korean Minister accredited to SCAP, Mr. Henry
C
CS/A
DE YOUNG. Regardless of the authenticity of this list or of plans
of the Korean League, this murder has further weakened the Korean
Residents Union and the cause of Korean moderates in Japan.
Respectfully yours,
173728
w.r.Scaaci
Enclosure:
W. J. Sebald
Fil
S
E
Intelligence Summary
JWS
OR
dated January 14, 1949.
350
RBFinn:hh
In triplicate to Department.
Copy to 
Spectal Representative
Poltal, Seoul.
SECRET

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 79 dated
February 5, 1949 from United States
SECRET
Political Adviser for Japan, Tekyo,
subject: "Assassination of Promiment
Kerean Rightist Leader in Japan."
COPY
SECRET
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
Military Intelligence Section,
General Staff
SPOT INTELLIGENCE
CAW/RSB/CFG/amh
Date: 14 Jan 49
Hour: 1120
SUBJECT: Assassination of Prominent Rightist Korean Leader
TO
: Chief of Staff
1. Information:
a. CIC reports that GEN Ko Sho, alias HYUN Ho Sup (Korean) -
AITIYAMA (Japanese), a prominent leader in Korean Rightist movements
was shot and killed near Ueno Station, Tokyo, at 1815 hours last
evening. The assassin fired a pistol at very close range after ordering
GEN to step out of a car and then fled into the UENO crowds and dis-
appeared.
b. GEN was the most valuable CIC Informant in the Kobe-Osaka
area, chairman of the rightist Korean Residents Union and one of the
most powerful Korean anti-leftist leaders in Japan. He was publisher
of the TAI Kan Nimpo, a strongly anti-communist newspaper in the Kansai
region. GEN was an active leader in Korean anti-communist activities
and as such incurred the enmity of all leftist organizations notably
the League of Koreans Residing in Japan, its subsidiaries and the Japan
Communist Party.
c. GEN had been in the Tokyo area for several days for the
following reasons
(1) To expedite Japanese official approval of a request
for cloth to be used in making Korean Republic flags. The flags were
to be used as a counter-measure against the illegal leftist display of
the flag of North Korea.
(2) To attempt to have the newsprint allocation increased
so that he could expand the sirculation of his paper.
(3) To confer with local CIC and rightist Korean leaders
as to the Korean situation throughout Japan.
d. GEN's address in Tokyo was supposedly a closely guarded
secret among the top rightist leaders as he was aware of his many enemies
and the possibility that they would carry out previous threats against
his life.
. It is believed that the Koreans in both Kobe and Tokyo will
react violently to GEN's assassination.
2. Action:
a. CIC will observe and report on all developments which may
arise as a result of this incident.
b. Following agencies notified: ADC, Deputy Chiefs of Staff
SCAP and FRC, DS, CPM, Tokyo PM, G-3.
C. A. W.
SECRET
SECRET

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.89)
ACTION
is assign
2
No. 15 to Department.
w
wws
MESE AFFA
CHN
ALER ICAN CONSULATE
FEB 231949
mim
UNCLASS IF TED
FE
OEPARTIENT O STATE
Subdect:
Editorial on the Development of Japan.
10
:Dfk
RECEVED
3
C
The Secretary of State,
OLI
C.
Washington.
Eve/
Sir:
894.00/2-74
Sx
I have the honer to relose a translation of an
editorial entitled "Where is Janan Heading?", published
in the "Chene Yi Pec" ( puth Daily) on February 1, 1949.
his noner, m bal th second most respected in Kunming
after the "Kuan har Fao", is contrelled by Mr. Lin Nan-
yuan, a leadey ef the cs Clique in this province and
currently Frovineial Commissioner of Finance.
Reppeetfully yours,
ablue R. Lutlhint
Latue . utlino
Troriea Vice Concul
Criginal and hecterranh to Derartment.
Copy to Smbassy, Nanking.
Copy to MsTs, Shanghai.
350
APR 28 1949
IRLutkins/hsu
FILED
DMR
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
CheIPae
abry1.1949
Where is Japan Heading?
Pre-war Japan was the No. 1 aggressive country in the Fer Eest.
The first one to suffer serious harm was of course Chine. The memery
of this painful fact is still fresh in our minds and will mover be
obliterated. We therefore watch with close interest the developing
trends in post-war Japan. With great sympathy and sinoore friendship
we would like Japan, after three years' reformation since the wer, to
have become truly democratic, reachieved a reasonable economic pros-
perity, and improved the livelihood of the majority of her people.
On the contrary, for the sake of ourselves and the Japanese race, we
do not wish to see her revert to her old militaristic rut to endanger
the world and hury her own future.
Actual develonments ur to the present have told us that Japan has
proceeded along a nath contrary to our wishes. That murderous feature
of the typical Jananese militarists which anpears in cartoons is again
moving before our eyes. According to renorts, the number of Japanese
armed policemen will soon be increased to 300,000, equivalent to the
total number of standinp military and police forces in the pre-war
period. The supreme orranization which commands the nolice is the
so-called "National Peace Preservation Committee" which is directly
under the Premier and which is in fact a metamorphosed "Department
of the Army". The "police control areas" in different arcas are
metamorphosed "militar" contro! areas". The "Police College" set up
last year is a metamorphosed military officers' academy or an army
college. As to the navy, General MacArthur's Headquarters, under the
pretext of preventing smuggling activities, last year turned over 28
submarines and destroyers for use by the Japanese police. At the same
time, the "Central Naval Peace Preservation Committee" and the "Naval
Peace Preservation Bureau" were set un. In fact, they are a metamor-
phosed revival of the "Terartment of the Navy". The force of the Naval
Peace Preservation Bureau is temnorarily set at 8,oo0 naval peace pre-
servation policemen and 3º armod ratrclling cruisers. In the future,
the number will bo ineroased + 10,0cc naval nclicemen and 135 vessels.
Such a grand new orranization, vit American eyuinment, will be no weaker
than the pre-war naval foree. is  tle air force, all the Japanese air
bases are still in evistence aud their n uirment is as good as ever.
Besides secret!y trainin a rour of Jonanese flving personnel, the United
States has spent the larre sum of 1? million US dollars and mobilized
several thousand Jaranese lahorers in buildinr on the northern nart of
Honshu a strategic airfield carallo of accomodating the larpest and
fastest a'rplanes. As to  rower, t'c bir and small war criminals
have not been wined out and are oronly carrying out their activities
everywhere. It is ever suin +hnt the arch ver criminal Tojo is st ill
alive. A rour of 20c,ccc rutirrd militory persons will apain ret the
oprertunity of "be tn erleoc". "oot ouicatons of different
sorts are pronarino fo ourtior uo ivities. As to material nower,
certain equipment of mil ita factorior anc heavy industries of high
productive canacity have Iargely been roteined. General MacArthur's
nine-point economic plan for Jananese recovery is indeed designed
tc restore Jaran's armament industry t its pre-war level. According
to the occunation report roleased b General MacArthur's Headquarters
on c ctober 24 last year, Joranese coonomy has reatly progressed. The
eneral production index Por the industrial and mininr industry and
the manufacturing industry, w ict was /?.1 in Sertember 1947, increased
to 52.0 in Ju1y 1948, reaching 50 of the 1930 - 1934 rroduction 1evel.
As for coal production, the average production in the last eight months
of 19/7 had already rone be ond the 1030 - 103! level. Yet Janan is
still not o isfied with the ahove conditions. According to a telegram
from

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
from Tokyo of the French News Agency, the semi-official "English
Chronicle" in Japan brags about Japan as being an anti-commumist
fortress and shows dissatisfaction with the fact that Japen has not
been totally armed. Thus, the Japanese "ambition" can be readily
seen.
The Potsdam Declaration clearly stipulates that all visible and
invisible Japanese aggressive arms should be removed. The Far Eastern
Commission also passed a resolution reiterating the dissolution of
Japanese military organizations, the prohibition of the manufacture
of articles of a military nature, and the abolition of all military
activities. Yet the United States from bepinning to end has paid no
attention to all this. In the so-called "democratic" new constitution
put into force in "ay lo47, a preliminary step had already been made
toward re-armament. The Japanese reneral election on January 23rd of
this year was obviously held with General MacArthur supporting the
formation of a cabinet by tne conservative and reactionary Yoshida of
the Democratic Libera? Furty, in crter te prry out the mission of
anti-Soviet and anti-communist ": lituri.m". The American support of
Japan has now vone fron rol!: n onomy t military affairs, from
the sea to the land and the air, from the Smperor to the rascal, from
production to trade, from an rower t financial power, from semi-
official to official, fron votial i to ell-out sunnort.
" here is JTanm Head ing?" e poiclusion to be drawn from the
above facts is this Tapan, becuse of the fund ental conflict between
the United tates and Coviet ussia, Ins obtained American support, nut
on an "anti-communist" olpa', and is marcing atain in a new style on
the old founieton al  worressive ret cf Faseist militarism.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.94)
JAPAN CHRISTIAN
UNIVERSITY FOUNDATION
214 EAST 21st STREET
CFFICERS
STAFF
New York 10. N. Y.
RALPH E. DIFFENDORFER
JAMES L PBER
Preeident
Executive Direster
JOHN COVENTRY SMITH
A. L. SCHAFER
Vice-President
DIVISION OF
Assistent Executive Directer
MRS. CHARLES H. SEARS
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
MISS RUTH MILLER
Secretary
K2/212/2/49
Administretive Assistent
PROFESSOR JOHN LANGDON JONES
Treasurer
EB141949
MISS HENRIETTA GIBSON
Assistent Treasurer
February 9, 1949
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
PERECHAL
The Honorable Dean . Acheson
secretary of bate
Mashington,
y dear Mr. Secretary:
You loubtless will recall me as the executive vice chairman of
the American Tational tel ross or twenty-three and a half years up to
the time of my retirenent soon after 7-J ay. Tn view of the international
aspects of the enterprise with which I an now asseciated, I enclose a copy
of the  EpT? rlative to my recent trip to Japan, where at the sugges-
894.00/2-
tion of r. Crew I hal opportunity to soc r. Jovell representin~ the State
Jepartment and also a nunber of peopl in Ap fron ceneral HaeArthur down.
Our university project is one  mich will interest you. I am, therefore,
also sendin: vou unler separate cover marked "Personal" some of our other
material.
Backcround with the Rod ross an! the feet that I was acting chair-
man at the time ot the Japanese carthqmakee in 1223, when the Red Cross raised
2-9
over 11,000,000 for the earthquake victine, led to my recention as an old
friend of Japan anl opened doore Srem those of the Emperor, Prince Takamatsu,
49
Prime  inister Yoshi ta, ant the overnor of the Bank of Japan down. It was
a touch-and-go cituation mith mumerous press conferences, ineluling a final
lurpe one arranged br the o. T. & E. peetion at its offices. I was pleased
to have both our om leadere en? those o? the Ja anese say that I had "a way
with the Japanese." (ur owm hich cornand said that I hai been "on the beam"
throurhout my visit. I realized throu hont that one could casily complicate
rather than simpli v relationshi s.
It is a pleasure to esspress my deeo pepreciation for the part played
by the State Department in emoi liting my trip end ny travel and accommo lat ons
in Janan. This relationship with your people,  well those with the milshany
in helpin" to futher intornational friendebip on a broad public relations
894.
basis.
69
I am still maintaining my rosidence at Soo? Edgemoor Lane, Bethesda,
C
Yaryland, in order to pimplify the sehool attendance of my two sons (Jim, 12;
2
John, 3) at Landon loys School. I an home with my Camily each weekend, but
A
am here in Hew York dhurins the week. I m at rour service should there ever
be occasion.
039050

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
The Honorable Dean G. Acheson
-2=
February 9, 1yus
With every good wish for your continued success in the outstand-
ingly important post that you occupy and with best wishes, I am
Respectfully yours,
James L Fieser
Executive Director
JLF:mp
Enclosure
P. S. Also enelosel is a copy of a 2 th anniversary United Press story
on the earthquake.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICÀ
DIVISION OF
United States Political
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFÁIRE
for Japan
STATF
02
C 
FEB 24 1949 
Tokyo, February 11, 1949
dist. By.
No. 89
DEPARTMENT OF STATEW
0F
EC
SECRET
ned2-nofrres
2
FRB
bject: Proposed Visit to the United States of yoe OuchI
1
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to supply the
Department with the following summary of informetion concerning
a proposed visit to the United States of Hyoe OUCHI, Professor
of Economics at Tokyo Imperial University, former Cabinet member,
and a recognized authority in international monetary problems.
On January 19, 1949 this Headquarters received through the
Department of the Army a telegram from Huntington GILCHRIST,
Chairman of the Pacific Council, requesting favorable action upon
894.00/2-1149
Professor Ouchi's application for permission to visit the United
States to attend the annual meeting of the Institute of Pacific
Relations from January 22 to 24, 1949 as a representative of the
Japan Institute of Pacific Studies, and thereafter to spend ap-
proximately four months in the United States on an investigation
of international monetary and financial problems for the Institute
of racific Relations.
Upon making inquiry into the matter this Mission found that
favorable action in the case was being delayed by reason of a
secret report from Headquarters sources which read in part as
follows:
4
"Subject has been referred to as 'liberal and progressive'
or as a 'leftist.' Some sources describe Subject as a
'veteran Marxist' and a Communist Party sympathizer, but
there is no evidence that he is a member of the JCP or
that he has any direct connection with the Party...Subject
is a recognized and eminent authority on financial matters
and his interest in Marxism probably represents an in-
PILED
tellectual interest rather than any active cooperation with
the Japan Communist Party...His close association with
Communists, however, and his membership in Communist front
groups seem to place him in the vague category of 'fellow
traveller.'"
894.00/2-1140
On January
SECRET
F.le.
SWs
CS/
Icopy natained
for Bi Filee

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 89,
February 11, 1949
-2
On January 22, 1949 this Mission addressed a communication
to the appropriate sections of this Headquarters which expressed
the view that the foregoing report ought not to be considered
sufficient grounds for refusing to accede to the invitation of
the Institute of Pacific Relations for the attendance of so
distinguished a scholar as Professor Ouchi. It was further pointed
out that the United States has a sound and substantial interest in
the reestablishment of relations with competent Japanese scholar-
ship and that the interposing of obstacles by this Headquarters
should be limited to less tenuous cases.
On the same date a final and unfavorable decision was made
in the case by the Chief of Staff and a telegram was sent to the
Department of the Army which stated that Professor Ouchi can be
classified as a "fellow traveler" and that, "since statements of
opinions expressed by him in connection with his IPR activities
in the United States could be interpreted as having official or
semi-official backing, his travel to the United States is not
favorably considered."
210.9
MWeatherby:hh
In triplicate to the
Department
SECRET
lw

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS,
TOKYO,
INFO: ARMY CHIEF OF STAFF,
FOR ACTING POLITICAL ALVISER.
Dept has been requested by William Holland, SECGEN, Institute
of Pacific Relations to use its good offices in obtaining permission
Hyoye Ouchi to enter US to visit IPR officials here and to attend
forthcoming meeting of IPR officers and Natl Council to be held
Toronto Sept 20 and 21.
On basis (1) ur recommendation to Headquarters, Tokyo
despatch 89, Feb 11, 1949 re Ouchi's proposed visit to US
FW894
in Jan, (2) Dept's understanding that Yoshida has appointed
him member of Social Security Commission and Chairman of
Cabinet's Statistics Commission, (3) fact that he has been
granted permission to attend Intl Statistical Congress in
Switzerland and is now there; and (4) US desire to encourage
Jap scholarship and (5) favorable effect that visit and US
might have on Ouchi, Dept requests, at ur discretion you
take this matter up with SCAp informing him that Dept has
no objection Consul Geneva issuing him visitor's vim to enter
US provided travel US approved by SCAP.
FE:NA:ALDunning:clh

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
DC
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 14, 1949.
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
No. 94
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Japanese General Election of January 23, 1949.
2
4
EIVED
The. Honorable
TheSecretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's
airgrams nos. 16, 17, and 18 of January 25, 1949
giving preliminary analyses of the Japanese general
1/
election of January 23, and to transmit to the Department
894.00/2-1449
a more detailed memorandum on the subject of the general
election prepared by an officer of this Mission dated
February 8, 1949. Statistics covering the January 23
election are based upon a report published shortly
after the election by the Netional Election Management
Committee. For convenience of comparison with previous
postwar elections, reference is made to the Department's
OIR study no. 3492 of May 15, 1946, "Analysis of the
1946 Japanese General Election", and OIR study no. 4310
of September 1, 1947, "An Analysis of the 1947 Japanese
House of Representatives Election".
APR
Summary of Election Statistics
FILED
The election of January 23, 1949 was remarkable
2
for the exceedingly large participation of the electorate,
over 31 million,or 74.1 percent, of the nation's 42 millio
eligible voters casting ballots. The distribution of vote
by political parties and the number of seats each party
won in the House of Representatives are summarized in the
following table:
894.00
Political
cs/
CONFIDENTIAL
H

=== Page 72 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's.Despatch No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Political Parties
Votes
Seats
Democratic Liberal
13,381,610
264
Democratic
4,835,504
68
Social Demooratic
4,129,724
49
Peoples' Cooperative
1,042,123
14
Communist
2,984,583
35
Social Reformer
387,214
5
Labor-Farmer
606,744
7
New Liberal
187,208
2
Japan Farmers
232,833
1
Various Minor Parties
795,308
9
Independents
2,007,328
12
Total
30,590,179
466
The election resulted in an unexpectedly large
show of strength of the conservative Democratic Liberal
Party, which received 13,381,610 votes (43.8 percent of
the total) and won 264 seats (56.6 percent of 466) in
the House of Representatives. Prior to the election
the Democratic Liberal Party published statements of
confidence that it would secure some 200 seats, and its
present absolute majority constitutes a far greater
success than was anticipated.
While the Democratic Liberal Party now enjoys a
commanding position, the middle grouping, as represented
by the Democratic and Social Democratic Parties, has
suffered a serious defeat. Democratic candidates received
less than 16 percent of the popular vote and won only
68 seats in the House, while the Social Democratic Party's
popular vote amounted to only 13.5 percent, its candidates
winning 49 seats. In 1947 the Democratic Party and the
Social Democratic Party secured 12l and 143 seats respec-
tively.
The disintegration of the middle grouping, particu-
larly the Social Democratic Party, was accompanied by a
phenomenal increase in communist strength which far
exceeded all pre-election predictions. During the campaign
the most optimistic communist spokesmen predicted that
their party would win 15 to 20 seats in the Diet. Most
political observers, however, believed that the communists
would secure only eight to ten seats. Instead, communist
candidates polled close to three million votes and won
35 seats in the Diet. The communists were particularly
strong in the industrialized urban areas, and in Tokyo
succeeded in electing one candidate from each of the
city's seven electoral districts.
Regrouping
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Regrouping of Political Parties
The 1949 election has thus resulted in marked gains
at the two extremes of the political stage, while the
formerly strong middle grouping suffered serious reverses.
With 35 seats in the House of Representatives, the Japan
Communist Party, on the other hand, is now in a position to
bid for leadership of the opposition forces. How successful
the communists will be in their effort to assume such
leadership cannot at present be determined. They have,
however, already openly accelerated their efforts at
organizing a popular front, a strategy which they employed
during the campaign at the expense of the socialists (this
Mission's despatch no. 813 of December 29, 1948). Shortly
after the election a number of communist leaders called
at the headquarters of the Social Democratic Party and
invited the socialists to join a popular front. The
socialist leaders, however, rejected this proposal categori-
cally and expressed their determination to try to rebuild
the Social Democratic Party as an independent party free
of communist influence.
The Japanese communists have not been deterred by
this strong Social Democratic rebuff. During the campaign
many left-wing socialists were won over to the communist
party, and more socialist supporters, especially at the
prefectural and local level, are now expected to leave
their party and join the communists. Moreover, the close
connection of the Japan Communist Party and the newly-
organized Labor-Farmer Party (this Mission's despatch
no. 813 of December 29, 1948) has become even closer since
the election. It is generally believed that on most issues
the seven Labor-Farmer members of the House will work on
close terms with the communists, although, like the Social
Democratic Party, the Labor-Farmer Farty does not desire
a merger with the conmunists.
The demoralization of the Democratic and Social Demo-
cratic parties presents a serious problem in the face of
the Democratic Liberal's overwhelming majority and the
possibility of a communist-led opposition. Since the
election, Democratic Party leaders have discussed the
advantages of working with the Democratic Liberals in
the formation of a coalition government. Popular sentiment,
however, is strongly opposed to the establishment of
another coalition cabinet.
The position of the socialists is even more precarious
than that of the Democrats. Not only did they suffer a
heavy loss of strength in the House of Representatives, but
their party's principal leaders were defeated at the polls
and are therefore not members of the new House. Mr. KATAYAMA
Tetsu, one of those defeated in the election, is faced
with pressure for his resignation from the office of
chairman of the party's Central Executive Committee.
teasons
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
Reasons for Political Realignment and Success of
Democratic Liberals
It is difficult to explain with accuracy the reasons
which have brought about such a far-reaching realignment of
political forces. This election has shown, as did so many
prewar elections, that a large number of Japanese are
innately conservative by temperament and favor a conserva-
tive administration. Prime Minister Yoshida and the
Democratic Liberal Party stand for such conservatism. They
do not, however, represent an ultra-reactionary ideology
as is frequently attributed to them by some sections of
the press in Japan and abroad. Mr. Yoshida and the
Democratic Liberal Party are now at the extreme right of
the political stage primarily because the ultra-nationalists,
reactionaries, and militarists of the pre-war and wartime
periods have been removed from political life. Nevertheless,
the Democratic Liberal Party represents a form of conserva-
tism which is still fundamental to Japanese political
thinking, and the results of the election are a strong
endorsement of such principles. To some degree it must
also be recognized that the party's popularity, and
particularly Mr. Yoshida's appeal as the party's leader,
comes from the Prime Minister's independent attitude and
his determination to resist pressure from General Head-
quarters (this Mission's despatches no..774 of December 9,
1948 and no. 4 of January 4, 1949). Combined with his
outspoken patriotism, referred to as nationalism by many
of his opponents, Mr. Yoshida's independent attitude has
appealed to many Japanese.
In its February issue, Seikei Joho notes that the
popular desire for independence is one important reasons
for the Democratic and Social Democratio defeats. Such
middle-of-the-road political leaders have contended,
according to this magazine, that "politics in occupied
Japan is necessarily restricted by occupation policies".
The general election in this magazine's view has plainly
indicated that the people are "opposed to such an ideology
and anxious for the realization of politics as independent
as possible of outside influence in spite of their position
as a defeated nation".
It is also apparent that the Democratic Liberal
Party profited by being out of office during the past
year and a half when widespread political scandals were
exposed. Although many Democratic Liberal politicians
have been involved in dishonest and corrupt activities,
the Democratic and Social Democratic parties have been
more adversely affected not only because some of their
principel leaders have been involved but also because
these parties were in power. The most important cause
of the defeat of the Democratic and Social Democratic
parties, however, is believed to have been their failure
to stand in the eyes of the electorate for definite policies.
Both the Katayama and Ashida Cabinets were far too content
with temporizing compromises and to a considerable degree
earned reputations of being too subservient to pressure
from the. Occupation. It is unfortunately true that the
period
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
period when they were in office was a period in which
changing Headquarters policies, particularly in the field
of labor relations, tended to undermine platform positions
earlier taken by the parties and made the voters conscious
of a lack of consistency in party policies. Both parties
have also lacked effective leadership, Mr. Ashida and
Mr. Katayama not being outstanding personalities calculated
to arouse popular confidence. While Mr. Yoshida is
personally disliked by many with whom he comes into contact,
is stubborn, inclined to be arrogant, and lacks the personal
charm of the professional vote-getter, he nevertheless has
a strong, forceful personality which inspires confidence.
Japan Communist Party Success
The phenomenal success of the Japan Communist Party
is explained mainly by its compact, disciplined organiza-
tion and the tireless energy of its workers. Communist
candidates made vigorous campaigns. The party's rank
and file got out and worked in direct contact with the
people, canvassing laborers, housewives, small businessmen,
shopkeepers, and farmers. Communist henchmen went to the
rallies of other party candidates, heckling the speakers
and often disrupting the meetings. The party championed
the working men's cause on issues which were certain to
find a response among large sections of the population,
such as taxes, the food situation, compulsory rice
deliveries at fixed prices, the ration system, and higher
wages. Communist spokesmen concentrated on issues which
are of direct concern to the average Japanese and which
he can easily understand. The Japan Coimmunist Party also
pursue a sound election strategy, entering only one party
candidate in each election district, thereby not splitting
the communist vote among two or more candidates, a mistake
the communists made in the first postwar election of
April 10,1946. Finally, an important factor in the success
of the communists was the great victories scored by the
communists in China. This has had far-reaching effects
on the Japanese. The Japanese communists have stressed
that the Far East is coming under communist control and
that Japan's best interests lie in being aligned with a
communist Asia. There is unquestionably a fear among many
Japanese that Japan may eventually become a communist
country. They are wondering what, in such an event, is
to become of those who have opposed communism. As Seikei
Joho remarked in its January issue:
"Today in Japan the communist party supporters
are in the minority. However, nobody can foresee
what influence it will establish in the future.
If it obtains a support of the majority, a small
class party will become a major national party.
In view of the fact that the Chinese Communist Party
is calling CHIANG Kai-shek and other Nationalist
leaders traitors and war criminals, we should like
to warn anti-communists in Japan to be careful of
what they say today."
Suoh
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
Such a warning, if not threat, was implied in much of the
Japan Communist Party's campaign propaganda before the
election.
Conduct of the Election
Exceptionally good weather throughout most of Japan
on election day was favorable to a large vote. Although
there has been some oriticism of the new system of public
management of electiohs through Election Management
Committees, the general results have been a credit to
the Japanese sense of civic responsibility. On election
day a group of officers from this Mission inspected a
number of polling places in widely scattered parts of
Tokyo, including a downtown business district, a factory
workers' district, and several suburban areas. What was
particularly impressive was the systematic, orderly manner
in which the polls were conducted. The officials in charge
and each local Election Management Committee seemed to be
thoroughly familiar with the election law and the procedures
to be followed. Most of the polling places visited were
established in school houses, and, although some of the
buildings had suffered war damage, the polling places were
neat and orderly. The voters entered the polls, checked
their registration, secured their ballots, and voted quietly
and without confusion. At the polls visited, each voter
received from one of the election officials a printed
certificate showing that he had participated in the election.
Many voters later pasted these certificates on their front
doors. It was apparent from these personal observations
of the election that the Japanese people possess good
capabilities for operating the mechanical processes of
democratic government.
Program Facing Democratic Liberals
While the Democratic Liberal Party may now have to
face a clamorous, communist-led opposition in the House
of Represertatives, it has sufficient strength with its
264 seats to dictate its own course of action. The pre-
ponderant position of the party has unfortunately brought
about some complacency, and considerable popular sentiment
now believes that Japan can look forward to a long period
of uninterrupted, stable, conservative government. This
Mission believes, however, that the Democratic Liberal
Party is faced with a number of dangers. As the party
in power, it will have to assume responsibility for execution
of the nine-point economic recovery program, the full
enforcement of which will unquestionably inflict an even
more austere life upon the Japanese. It cannot be expected
that the government which must assume responsibility
for such austerity can possibly retain its present degree of
popularity. In addition, the Democratic Liberal Party is
now
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 94,
February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
now so large that it runs the danger of becoming unwieldy.
Already there are indications of factionalism within the
party which, if accentuated under the strain of the
economic recovery program, may seriously handieap the
operation of a Democratic Liberal government. It is far
from impossible that party discipline may prove inadequate
to keep the House majority in line on some important and
widely opposed issue, and defections to a new party group-
ing would be in the tradition of Japanese politics. But
meanwhile the existence of a single-party majority, and
the consequent demand for the development of a large
integrated political alignment in opposition, should
continue to create a beneficial influence on the future
cour se of Japanese politics in the direction of the two-
party system.
Respectfully yours,
W.Bebace
W. J. Sebald
atl.
Enclosure:
Memorandum on Japanese General
Election of January 23, 1949,
dated February 8, 1949.
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatoh No.
dated February 14, 1949 from
the United States Politieal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Japanese General Eleotion
of January 23, 1949".
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM
February 8, 1949.
Subject: Japanese General Election of January 23, 1949.
The third postwar Japanese general election for
members of the House of Representatives was held on Sunday,
January 23, 1949. This election has brought about a far-
reaching realignment of political forces. Conservative
elements, as represented by the Democratic Liberal Party,
have captured a commanding position in the House of Repre-
sentatives with an absolute majority of 264 seats. The
other two major parties, the Democratic and Social Democratic,
which represent a middle grouping between extreme right and
extreme left, suffered an unprecedented loss of strength.
Finally, the Japan Communist Party, which heretofore enjoyed
only four seats in the House, increased its strength to
35 seats, and is now in a position to bid for leadership of
the leftist opposition.
The 1949 election was a remarkable manifestation of
popular interest in Japanese politics, despite the pre-
election attitude of apathy toward the campaigns of the
various candidates. Of the nation's 42,090,916 eligible
voters, 31,168,625 or 74.1 percent cast baliots. The follow-
ing table shows the overall character of participation in
this election.
men
omen
Total
Number of eligible voters
20,054,142
22,036,774
42,090,916
Number who voted
16,192,775
14,975,850
31,168,625
Number who did not vote
3,861,367
7,060,924
10,922,291
Percentage who voted
80.7
68.0%
74.1%
Percentage who did not vo te
19.3%
32.0%
25.9%
Number of valid votes
30,590,179
Number of invalid votes
578,446
Percentage of votes cast which were invalid
1.9%
The present Japanese population contains 1,982,632 more
eligible women voters than eligible men voters. The rate of
abstention among women voters, however, was higher, over seven
million women failing to vote as compared with only 3,86l,367
men. These men voters exceeded women voters by 1,216,925
notwithsianding the fact that there were almost two million
more eligible women voters than men. The higher ratio of
male participation in the election is not surprising, however,
in view of the fact that women's suffrage is a postwar Japanese
politicel inslitution.
The tables on page 2 show the numbers and percentages
of seats secured in the House of Representatives by each
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
nclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
- No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Comparison of 1947 and 1949 Japanese General Elections
Number and percentage of the elected candidates by party classification.
General election of 1949
General election of 1947
Political Parties
Number elected
Percent
Number elected
Percent
Democratic-Liberals
264
56.6
131
28.1
Democrats
68
15.0
121
26.0
Socialists
49
10.5
143
30.7
People's Cooperatives
14
3.0
29
6.2
Communists
35
7.5
4
0.8
Social Reformers
5
1.0
Labor-Farners
7
1.5
New Liberals
2
0.4
Japan Farmers
1
0.0
3
0.7
Various Minor Parties
0
1.9
22
4.7
Independents
12
2.6
13
2.8
Total
466
100.0
466
100.0
(note)
As for the Democratic-Liberal Party's election results of 1947, the
number and percent are that of the Liberal Party.
In the various parties of 1949, the Labor-Farmer New Party is included.
The following pages will be in accordance with the above note.
General election of 1949
General election of 1947
Political Parties
Kumber of votes
Percent
Number of votes
Percent
Democratic-Liberals
13,381,610
43.
7,356,321
26.2
Democrats
4,835,504
15.8
6,839,646
25.0
Socialists
4,129,724
13.5
7,175,939
26.9
People's Cooperatives
1.042,123
3.4
1,915,947
7.0
Communists
734,593
9.6
1,002,903
3.7
Social Reformers
87,214
1.3
Labor-Farmers
606,741
2.0
New Liberals
187,208
0.6
Japan Farmers
232,833
0.
259,854
0.94
Various Minor Parties
795,308
2.6
1,231,203
4.49
Independents
2,007,323
6.6
1,580,844
5.77
Total.
30,590,179
100.0
27,361,657
100.0

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
political party in 1947 and 1949, and the division of the
popular vote among the parties in the two elections. Par-
ticularly noteworthy is the marked contrast between the
positions of the Democratic Liberal Party and the Japan
Communist Party in 1949 as compared with 1947. As a
result of the general election of April 1947, the Democratic
Liberal Party secured 131 seats (28.1 percent) of the 466
seats of the House of Representatives. This position was
increased to 264 seats (56.6 percent), an absolute majority,
in 1949. In 1947 the Democratic Liberal popular vote
amounted to 7,356,321 (26.2 percent) of the total of
27,36l,657 valid votes cast, but in 1949 Democratic Liberal
candidates polled 13,381,610 (43.8 percent) votes out of
a 30,590,179 total of valid ballots.
In l947 only four communist candidates were elected
to the House of Representatives, the party receiving a
total of 1,002,903 votes (3.7 percent). In the 1949
election, however, communist candidates received almost
three miilion votes (9.6 percent of the total), and won
35 seats or 7.5 percent of the House's total membership.
While the l949 election resulted in such spectacular
gains at the two extremities of the political stage, the
formerly strong middle grouping suffered disastrous
reverses. The Democratic Party's representation in the
House of Representatives declined from 121 seats (26.0
percent) in 1947 to 68 seats (15.0 percent) in 1949. In
1947 the Social Democratic Party had won 143 seats (30.7
percent), the la rgest representation of any party, as a
result of which the socialists were able to establish the
coalition Katayama Cabinet. The socialist defeat in
1949, however, was the most severe suffered by any party,
Social Democratic candidates winning only 49 seats (10.5
percent). The decline in the size of the popular vote
of the Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party
was proportionately less severe than the loss of seats.
Nevertheless, in 1947 the Democrats polled 6,839,646
(25.0 percent) votes as compared with 4,835,505 (15.8
percent) in 1949; while the Social Democrats polled
7,175,939 votes (26.9 percent) in 1947 as compared with
only 4,129,724 (13.5 percent) in 1949.
The Peoples' Cooperative Party (also of the middle
grouping) suffered a similar loss of power. In 1947 this
party won 29 seats in the House and polled almost two
million votes; in l949, however, its number of seats
dropped to l4, and its popular vote, to a little over one
million.
In summary, it is significant to note that only two
political parties gained in strength, both as regards the
size of their popular votes and in the number of seats
won in the House. These two parties, the Democratic Liberal
and
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatoh
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
and the Communist, represent the two political extremes.
All other parties suffered a decline, leaving the important
middle grouping in a weakened and demoralized condition.
It is also significant that there was a small decline
of overall major party strength in l949. In the previous
election the three major parties (Democratic Liberal,
Democratic, and Social Democratic) secured about 85 percent
of the seats of the House as compared with approximatel y
82 percent in 1949. In 1947 the major parties captured
around 78 peroent of the popular vote as compared with
73 percent in 1949. Thus while the Democratic Liberal
Party scored its spectacular increase in popular vote
and seats in 1949, this remarkable gain was made within
a smaller overall major party position. In terms of its
two major political rivals, therefore, the Democratic
Liberal Party's position is far more dominant than its
56.6 percent position in the House would indicate. The
following table shows the unusual change in the Democratic
Liberal Party's position with respect to the major parties:
Major Parties
1947
1949
No. of Seats Percent
No. of Seats
Percent
Dem. Liberal
131
32.9
264
69.3
Democratic
124
31.2
68
17.9
Social Democratic
143
35.9
49
12.8
Total
398
100.0
381
100.0
In l947 the Democratic Liberal Party's representatives held
only 32.9 percent of the major parties' position in the
House; in 1949, however, the ratio increased to 69.3 per-
cent.
The increase of the communist position with respect
to the overall position of the minor parties in the House
of Representatives is even more remarkable, as the following
table indicates:
Minor Parties
1947
1949
No. of Seats
Percent
No. of Seats
Percent
Communist
4
5.6
35
41.2
Peoples Coop.
29
40.8
14
16.3
Others
25
35.2
24
28.3
Independents
13
18.4
12
14.2
Totel
71
100.0
85
100.0
With only four seats in 1947, or 5.6 percent of the total
minor party and independent membership, the Japan Communist
Party's position jumped to 35 seats in 1949, or 41.2 percent
of the minor party and independent seats. There seems little
doubt
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
doubt that the communists will be able to count upon
support from the seven members of the Labor-Farmer Party,
and in addition may, on many issues, be supported by some
members of other minor parties as well as some left-wingers
who are still within the Social Democratic Party. On the
other hand, a few independents have already merged with
the Democratic Liberal Party. As the above tables showing
major and minor party positions indicate, there appears
a strong likelihood of a sharp left-right alignment in
the House of Representatives, with the conservative Democratic
Liberal Party completely dominating the right and middle
groups, but with the Japan Communist Party in an excellent
position to assume the leadership of all leftist elements
within the minor parties.
The tables on page six give a comprehensive picture
of party candidates and the general character of the
membership of the new House of Representatives. In the
election of 1949 there was a total of 1,364 candidates,
as compared with 1,590 in 1947. By provisions of the
election law, Japan is divided into il7 election districts.
Large areas like Hokkaido are divided into five election
districts. Tokyo with its dense population has seven
districts, and Osaka, five. Most prefectures are divided
into two and three districts, but in a few, with comparatively
small populations, the prefecture is a single district.
Each district elects from three to five members to the Diet,
but each voter enjoys only one vote. It is to a party's
interest, therefore, to distribute its candidates in terms
of its anticipated political strength in order not to have
too many candidates in one district dividing the party's
vote, a serious mistake the Japan Communist Party made in
the first postwar election of April, 1946.
In the election of 1949 the Democratic Liberal Party
entered 416 candidates, of whom 264, or 63.5 percent, were
successful. This was the highest ratio scored by any
party, and was far better than the Denocratic Liberal Farty's
ratio in 1947. The Japan Conmunist Farty originally intended
to enter one candidate in each of the ll7 districts, but
one party member was unable to run for financial reasons
and another decided to run as a Labor-Farmer candidate.
The communists, therefore, had 115 candidates of whom 35
or 30.4 percent were successful. In 1947 the communists
entered 120 candidates but elected only 4, or 3.3 percent.
It is significant to note that party affiliation
apparently plays an important part in success in elections.
Except for the minor Japan Farmers' Party, which elected
only 6.25 percent of its candidates, all other parties
elected at least fifteen percent. Independent candidates,
however, made a much poorer showing both in 1947 and 1949.
In the previous election only 13 out of 242 independent
candidates were successful (5.4 percent); in 1949, 12
were elected out of 21l (5.7 percent).
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatoh
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
-6-
Number of candidates and number of seats secured in Diet by
parties.
Gen. Election of 1949
Gen. Eleotion or 1947
Political Parties
Cand.
Elect. Peroent
Cand. Elect. Pereent
Democratic-Liberals
416
264
63.5
326
131
40.2
Democrats
212
68
31.1
350
121
34.6
Socialists
186
49
26.3
289
143
49.5
Peoples Cooperatives
63
14
22.2
108
29
26.9
Communists
115
35
30.4
120
4
3.3
Social Reformers
30
5
16.7
Labor-Farmers
45
7
15.6
New Liberals
12
2
16.7
Japan Farmers
16
1
6.25
11
3
27.3
Various Minor Parties
58
9
15.5
144
22
15.3
Independents
211
12
5.7
242
13
5.4
Total
1,364
466
34.2
1,590
466
29.3
Occupation and age of the newly elected members of the Diet.
Occupation-
Former government officials
16 persons
Educationalists
16
Religious wo rkers
5
n
Businessmen
14
tn
Industry and Mining
19
Agriculture and forestry (live-stoo50
Fishing
11
11
Lawyers and notaries
51
Medical doctors
5
11
Writers
29
Employees of business companies
152
No occupation
44
n
Newspapermen
5
Others
49
Total
466
Age-
25 - 30 years (30 years and under) 1 person
30 -40 years
59
11
40 - 50 years
177
50 - 60 years
160
60 - 70 years
59
Over 70 years
10
11
Total
466
1"
Classification of newly elected members of Diet, new, returned,former
Political Parties
New
Returned
Former
Total
Democratic-Liberals
120
127
17
264
Democrats
23
38
7
68
Socialists
9
36
4
49
People's Cooperatives
1
13
14
Communists
28
4
3
35
Social Reformers
1
4
5
Labor-Farmers
7
7
New Liberals
2
2
Japan Farmers
1
1
Various Parties
2
6
1
9
Independents
11
1
12
Total
195
239
32
466
CONEIDTNMTAI

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-7-
The occupational breakdown of the newly eleoted members
of the House of Representatives shows an exceedingly large
percentage of members who are employees of business conoerns
(152 out of the House's 466 members). Many others, however,
have business connections. From the standpoint of age,
there is marked emphasis on the 40-60 year category, with
persons in the 30-40 year bracket and the 60-70 year bracket
being equally divided. Only one member of the House is
under 30, while ten are over 70 years old.
The Democratic Liberal Party elected a large number
of members (l20) who have never served in the Diet before.
The new Social Democratic membership is comparatively small,
while the communist is the largest percentage of any party.
Of the twelve successful independent candidates, however,
eleven have never served in the Diet before. In the overall
total, the election has resulted in considerable new blood.
of the 466 members of the House, 195 are new members, 239 are
reelected members, and 32 were formerly members of the House.
The table on page eight shows elected candidates by
party affiliation and prefecture. Democratic Liberal candi-
dates were elected from every prefecture in the country.
The Democratic Party, however, failed to elect members
from nine prefectures, while the Social Democratic Party
failed in nineteen prefectures. The Japan Communist Party
was successful in twenty-one prefectures. What is even
more significant, however, is the fact that the communists
elected seven candidates from Tokyo (one from each election
district), three from Kanagawa Prefecture (one from each
district), four from Osaka's five districts, one from
each of Kyoto's two districts, and two from Hyogo's five
districts. This plainly indicates the extent to which
communist strength is still concentrated in the urban
areas. Much to the surprise of all observers, the communists
elected only one candidate from Hokkaido, Miss KARASAWA
Toshiko, who won a seat in the Diet in 1946 but was defeated
in 1947. Pre-election communist activity in Hokkaido
was particularly intense, but the prefecture was overrun
by the Democratic Liberal candidates and those of the
minor parties. Detailed analysis of election returns from
Hokkaido's five districts indicates that considerable
communist strength was deflected from the perty in support
of candidates of the Labor-Farmer Farty and some of the
other minor parties. The Social Democratic Farty, however,
failed to elect a single candidate in Hokkaido. On the
other hand, the communists failed to elect any candidates
from Shikoku, and elected only one from Kyushu. The table
on page eight shows that communist strength is concentrated
primarily in two areas, the Kanto District, from which
thirteen candidates were elected, and the Kansai District
where ten candidates were elected. Both districts are,
of course, highly industrialized areas.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-8-
Number of elected candidates by party classification and prefecture.
Dam-Lib
Soo.
P.Coop.
Soc. Reform.
New Lib.
V.M.P.
Hokkaido
11
2
1
]
7
22
Aomori
3
3
1
7
Iwate
6
1
1.
8
Miyagi
6
2
7
9
Akita
5
3
8
Yamagata
5
2
1
8
Fukushima
0
3
12
Ibaraki
7
2
7
2
12
Tochigi
7
7
7
1
10
Gumma
4
3
2
1
10
Saitama
9
1
2
1
13
Chiba
11
2
13
Tokyo
13
1
l4
1
7
1
27
Kanagawa
5
1
3
3
1
13
Niigata
8
1
3
1
1
1
15
Toyama
3
2
1
6
Ishikawa
3
1
7
1
6
Fukui
2
2
4
Yamanashi
2
1
1
1
5
Nagano
8
2
2
1
13
Gifu
7
1
3
9
Shizuoka
9
1
1
1
]
1
14
Aiichi
10
5
1
1
1
1
19
Mie
4
1
1
3
9
Shiga
2
1
1
1
5
Kyoto
3
3
1
2
1
10
Osaka
10
5
4
19
Hyogo
10
3
2
1
2
18
Nara
2
7
]
1
5
Wakayama
3
1
7
r7
6
Tottori
2
1
1
4
Shimane
1
2
1
1
5
Okayama
5
2
1
2
10
Hiroshima
7
3
2
12
Yamaguchi
6
2
1
9
Tokushima
3
2
5
Kagawa
1
3
2
6
Ehime
8
1
9
Kochi
2
2
5
Fukuoka
9
1
2
1
2
1
1.9
Saga
3
2
5
Nagasaki
7
1
1
9
Kumamoto
4
4
1
1
10
Oiita
5
1
1
7
Miyazaki
5
1
6
Kagoshima
9
1
10
Total
264
68
49
14
35
5
7
2
1
9
12
466
Confidential

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-9-
The table on pages ten and eleven showing the
popular vote by parties and prefectures, further illustrates
the overwhelming superiority of the Democratic Liberal
Party, the weakness of the Democratic and Social Democratic
positions as major parties, and the very substantial
positions of the communists as a minor party. In Tokyo
the communists polled almost as many votes as the socialists;
the communist vote exceeded the socialist vote in Ibaragi,
Chiba, Nagano, Osaka, Okayama, Saga, and Oita Prefectures;
in a number of other prefectures the communists ran closely
behind the socialists.
A percentage breakdown of the popular vote by parties
and prefectures is given on page twelve. Although the
communist national average was only 9.6 percent, in some
prefectures the communist percentage was surprisingly
high; 13 percent in Saitama, 18 percent in Tokyo, 15 percent
in Kanagawa, 15 percent in Naganc, 13 percent in Kyoto,
20 percent in Osaka, 12 percent in Hyogo, and 17 percent
in Tottori.
On page 13 are percentage comparisons of the Democ ratic
Liberal, Democratic, Social Democratic and Communist vote
by prefectures in 1947 and 1949. The Democratic Liberal
Party's increased vote was fairly uniform throughout the
country, the vote being greater in every prefecture in
1949 as compared with 1947. While the party's national
average jumped from 26.5 in 1947 to 43.8 in 1949, in ten
prefectures in l949 Democratic Liberal candidates received
more than fifty percent of the vote. The Democratic and
Social Democratic vo te in l949 was uniformly less than
in 1947 with the exception of a few prefectures. Like
the Democratic Liberal Party, the vote of the Japan Communist
Party was higher in every prefecture in l949 with the one
exception of Kagoshima.
The general election of January 23 plainly indicates
that the great majority of the Japanese people are of
conservative temperament and strongly favor a cons ervative
administration. To a considerable degree the middle
grouping, as represented principally by the Social
Democratic Party, has failed to enlist popular support.
The socialist failure may not be attributed entirely to
Japanese conservatism or animosity toward a socialist
program. What is of much more importance in explaining
the great socialist defeat in 1949 is the marked
failure of the Social Democratic Party to prove itself
capable of providing efficient political leadership. The
most unfortunate thing that happened to the Social
Democratic Party arose from its opportunity in l947 to
organize and head a coalition government with the Democratic
and Peoples' Cooperative parties. The one opportunity
the socialists had to head a government proved unsuccessful
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
-10-
Number of votes received by parties in each prefeeture.
People's
Democratic
Socia-
Coopera- Com-
Social
Liberals
Democrats lists
tives
munists
Hokkaido
470,150
144,135
159,834
66,584
Aomori
150,400
120,432
38,917
28,484
36,248
15,718
Iwate
758,692
29,138
07,3/6
3,006
27,689
Miyagi
249,464
70,856
86,39€
26,102
23,456
Akita
187,77
127,526
72,113
17,212
33,112
9,411
Yamagata
237,119
115,857
0,013
31,449
Fukushima
882,023
34,086
105,270
60,462
2,975
Ibaragi
327,816
84,842
51,57
17,374
4,331
Tochigi
275,202
50,763
1,517
34,46
45,221
16,510
Gumma
210,233
190,510
103,817
12,749
50,320
Saitama
483,385
76,:59
113,22
13,306
109,158
Chiba
436,688
170,102
40,907
14,288
56,345
2,549
Tokyo
809,334
162,813
337,002
52,935
333,586
4,419
Kanagawa
300,052
93,29
133,15
20,263
127,684
2,608
Niigata
422,368
139,162
137,22
32,777
30,611
Toyama
185,526
84,00
27,78
59,524
24,421
Ishikawa
159,731
102,09
43,678
Fukui
104,121
90,1
9,716
Yamanashi
102,81
57,351
1,138
31,695
21,848
Nagano
410,185
147,757
33
104,658
122,749
2,603
Gifu
33,485
78,859
∠47
30,254
23,122
Snizuoka
575,515
61,70
71,:98
86,237
Aichi
512,956
50,750
17:51
92,54
138,885
22,007
1. ie
210,334
125,1
0,0:3
1,1:3
44,475
Sniga
152,019
47,18
3,063
23,802
Kyoto
185,700
183,547
4,104
43,232
Osaka
047,531
113.4
,774
352
15,509
450,130
142,315
lara
103,404
14,74
29,37
wakeyame
150,14
30,569
28,639
Lottori
105,550
43,054
1,745
Shimane
2,571
124,
47,24
Okayana
40,22
130,
，401
Firoshima
402,145
-7,179
Yamaguchi
3942
1
77,17
15,718
Tokushia
2040
1,041
agawa
125,020
110,11
39,639
Ehime
17,100
..cocni
130,713
22,654
Funtone
08,755
JF
1,331
Lagesari
umo...oto
1:,194
Ccita
14
3974
5,624
ijazari
181
17,052
Lecocnime
1,00
1,403
iotal
1,,13234,583
387,214
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.93)
-11
Number of votes received by arties is
Various
Indepehy
Labor
New
Japan
Minor
Farmers Liberals Farmers
Parties
dents
Hokkaido
91,326
292,362
69,227
1,293
Aomor1
6,830
215
33,569
Iwate
4,024
12,038
22,296
34,084
Miyagi
4,640
38,556
44,666
Akita
22,934
7,766
478.0
Yamagata
25,116
22,116
31,518
543,18
Fukushima
23,132
41,324
74,974
724,246
Ibaragi
71,539
39,694
677,153
Tochigi
5,234
14,794
36,479
560,566
Gumma
15,70
1,109
65,096
649,404
Jaitama
,270
50,287
848,247
Chiba
3,70
16,426
776,035
Tokyo
36,63
10,905
100,790
1,851,938
Kanagawa
15,231
113
84,796
851,275
niigata
51,63
40,271
902,244
Toyama
25,313
436,579
Ishikawa
29,563
389,760
Fukui
01,470
2,711
323,716
Yamanasni
1,353
70,926
328,270
Hagano
74
5,125
7,343
900,219
Gifu
9.4
11,63
7,755
35,385
621,270
Shizuoka
,763
98,994
1,039,127
Aichi
-,000
,57
39,879
1,358,330
Mie
2,16
116,625
580,660
Shiga
5,165
26,563
355,699
iyoto
22,517
4
4
730
7,576
648,711
Cosaka
117
44
7,711
1,347,242
Hyogo
6,237
,]43
67,070
1,191,861
.era
311
331,338
akma
,177
348,280
Tottori
,3
256,454
Shimane
,071
426,118
Ckaysma
1,71
067,783
diroshima
1391
74
832,160
Yamaguchi
2,0.8
11,100
631,636
Tokushima
12,87
281,200
Kagawa
1.
397,070
Lhime
10,7.0
3,528
585,522
Koochi
1,766
10
5,46
355,584
"ukuoke
204
04,:75
1,295,664
Jaga
13,542
389,471
Nacasrki
62,991
494,948
Fumamoto
27,150
72,500
Coita
74,5
483,835
iyazaki
84
1,028
385,064
Kacoshime
1,109
41,851
otal
.606,744
17,20
,007,32830,590,179
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 89 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-12-
Peo
Tot
Prefecture
DLP
DEM
SOC
Coop
COM
M.P.
IND
Hokkaido
36
11
12
05
31
05
Aomori
35
28
09
07
08
05
08
Iwate
57
07
15
0.6
06
08
07
Miyagi
46
13
16
05
04
08
08
Akita
39
27
15
05
07
06
01
Yamagata
44
21
15
05
09
06
Fukushima
53
05
15
08
09
10
Ibaragi
54
13
07
03
08
10
05
Tochigi
49
09
14
06
08
07
07
Gumma
33
29
16
03
07
02
10
Saitama
57
08
14
02
13
0.2
06
Chiba
56
22
05
02
07
06
02
Tokyo
44
09
18
03
18
03
05
Kanagawa
35
11
22
03
15
05
09
Niigata
47
15
15
09
09
05
Toyama
42
19
11
15
05
08
Ishikawa
41
26
15
11
07
Fukui
33
31
14
03
19
0.8
Yamanashi
31
17
13
0.3
10
07
22
Nagano
46
16
09
12
14
02
01
Gifu
55
12
11
05
01
06
Shizuoka
55
06
15
07
08
0.3
09
Aichi
38
18
14
07
10
09
04
Mie
36
23
08
0.
08
05
20
Shiga
44
13
16
09
09
02
07
Kyoto
29
28
14
13
12
04
Osaka
48
09
15
0.2
20
02
06
Hyogo
42
23
13
04
12
01
05
Nara
31
23
09
09
28
Wakayama
43
13
15
00
17
03
Tottori
42
0.7
28
17
13
Shimane
23
29
22
04
11
11
Okayama
36
20
05
08
10
13
08
Hirosh ima
48
11
15
11
11
04
0.3
Yamaguchi
63
02
14
01
12
06
02
Tokushima
36
09
08
30
06
03
08
Kagawa
31
28
17
07
10
05
02
Ehime
55
17
14
0.5
06
05
03
Kochi
37
19
06
06
16
16
Fukuoka
32
15
19
0.3
60
20
05
Saga
48
28
06
03
07
04
04
Nagasaki
47
14
13
01
05
07
13
Kumamoto
39
31
10
05
11
04
Oita
44
16
07
08
08
01
16
Miyazaki
48
15
09
05
05
02
16
Kagoshima
61
15
13
04
03
01
03
Totals
43.8
15.8
13.5
03.4
09.6
07.3
06.6
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
holosure to Tokyo's Despatch
.94, February 14, 1949.
GONFIDENTIAL
-13-
Percentage of Democratic Liberal, Democratic, Social Democratic,
and Communist Vote in 1947 and 1949 by Prefectures.
DLP
DEM
SOC
COM
Prefecture
1947
1949
1947
1949
1947
1949
1947
1949
Hokkaido
25.3
36
8.3
11
29.3
12
3.4
05
Aomori
30.2
35
29.3
28
9.6
09
2.9
08
Iwate
37.9
57
25.0
07
25.0
15
2.1
06
Miyagi
36.0
46
25.0
13
26.3
16
1.9
04
Akita
17.3
39
7.6
27
22.3
15
4.7
07
Yamagata
39.5
44
27.9
21
20.4
15
1.9
05
Fukushima
32.0
53
27.0
05
28.2
15
2.1
08
Ibaragi
35.8
54
23.8
13
19.6
07
1.9
08
Toohigi
21.4
49
35.9
09
26.4
14
2.0
08
Gumma
18.6
33
40.6
29
29.2
16
3.0
07
Saitama
42.6
57
24.0
08
25.8
14
4.9
13
Chiba
47.3
56
32.6
22
12.2
05
2.1
07
Tokyo
30.6
44
15.7
09
36.2
18
8.6
18
Kanagawa
24.7
35
14.1
11
38.5
22
5.3
15
Niigata
29.7
47
30.3
15
29.5
15
3.1
09
Toyama
20.3
42
32.4
19
23.8
11
1.4
05
Ishikawa
14.2
41
41.4
26
21.8
15
6.8
11
Fukui
10.5
33
49.9
31
25.6
14
1.4
03
Yamanashi
25.0
31
28.2
17
33.0
13
3.5
10
Nagano
27.5
46
20.3
16
19.8
09
8.0
14
Gifu
34.5
55
26.9
12
25.8
11
1.6
05
Shizuoka
39.8
55
19.1
06
21.8
15
3.2
08
Aichi
24.6
38
32.2
18
22.6
14
3.8
10
Mie
16.3
36
32.9
23
18.2
08
4.1
08
Shiga
37.7
44
11.0
13
29.9
16
1.9
09
Kyoto
14.9
29
36.1
28
40.5
14
2.5
13
Osaka
21.4
48
22.2
09
31.8
15
6.0
20
Hyogo
13.5
42
42.6
23
28.9
13
3.4
12
Nara
24.8
31
11.4
23
15.9
09
3.9
09
Wakayama
41.3
43
1.8
13
28.8
15
2.3
09
Tottori
29.7
42
0.7
32.3
28
5.2
17
Shimane
8.5
23
41.7
29
33.9
22
5.5
11
Okayama
36.1
36
21.5
20
24.8
05
5.0
10
Hiroshima
24.3
48
17.6
11
30.6
15
2.5
11
Yamaguchi
30.9
63
11.5
02
26.2
14
4.4
12
Tokushima
22.2
36
4.5
09
19.7
08
1.1
06
Kagawa
12.2
31
29.5
28
31.7
17
2.3
10
Ehime
29.6
55
37.6
17
24.9
14
2.9
06
Kochi
44.3
37
13.7
19
19.2
06
2.6
06
Fukuoka
16.5
32
24.8
15
36.1
19
3.6
09
Saga
33.5
48
23.4
28
7.6
06
2.9
07
Nagasaki
32.6
47
23.5
14
24.8
13
2.3
05
Kumamotc
26.7
39
34.0
31
24.5
10
1.1
05
Oita
7.7
44
32.8
16
19.3
07
3.6
08
Miyazaki
12.4
48
8.3
15
22.8
09
2.0
05
Kagoshima
10.4
61
41.4
15
12.5
13
0.5
03
Totals
26.5
43.8
25.1
15.8
26.3
13.5
3.7
9.6
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-14-
and demonstrated the party's lack of efficient, forthright
leadership. Widespread dissatisfaction with the socialists
resulted from the party's brief tenure of office. Moreover,
the Social Democratic Party's record as an opposition in
the last two sessions of the Diet also did much to undermine
its prestige.
While the great majority of the Japanese people have
demonstrated a strong preference for the kind of conservatism
represented by the Democratic Liberal Party, almost three
million voters, or close to ten percent, have expressed
preference for the other political extreme as represented
by the Japan Communist Party. The size of the communist
vote, coupled with the fact that the party now has thirty-
five seats in the Diet, is less impressive than the great
proportional increase in communist strength. The communist
vote increased by two million between 1947 and 1949, while
representation in the House of Representatives jumped
from a mere four members to thirty-five.
The success of the Democratic Liberal Party is
attributed mainly to Japan's basic conservatism and the
fact that middle-of-the-road governments, as represented
by the Katayama and Ashida Cabinets, have proved vacillating
and lacking in constructive, positive policies. In addition,
political corruption has eaten into both the Democratic
and Social Democratic parties, and while the Democratic
Liberals are not free from dishonest and corrupt politicians,
the great exposé of scandals over the past year and a half
have naturally hit hardest the parties which were in
power.
Finally, it must also be recognized that under
Prime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru's leadership, the Democratic
Liberal Party has shown an independent attitude. It has
resisted, sometimes to its immediate disadvantage,
direction and pressure from General Headquarters, and this
independence of attitude has unquestionably been received
with approval by many Japanese. The party has also
combined with its conservatism e certain degree of
nationalism which has had a widespread appeal.
The communist success nas also utilized appeals to
Japanese nationalism, but it is generally believed that
the most powerful factor in its recent success was the
impact of communist victories in China. Nevertheless,
the Japanese communists have enjoyed other advantages.
Farty members at the lower levels have been relentless
and tireless in working for the co unist cause. The
party's small, compact, well-disciplined organization
has enabled it to pursue its campaign with remarkable
efficiency and to exploit such popular causes as anti-
tax agitation and higher wa es. Finally, the communists
profited tremendously by the disintegration of the Social
Democratic Party and popular disillusionment with the
socialists.
CON IDENTIAL

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 94, February 14, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-15-
In addition to voting for members of the House
of Representatives, in the January 23 election the
Japanese people for the first time had the opportunity to
indicate on a special ballot their approval or disapproval
of the fourteen justices of the Supreme Court. Only a
little over one million votes were cast in disapproval
of the justices. It is particularly significant that
the Japan Communist Party instructed its members to vote
against all Supreme Court justices in this electoral
review of their office. On the other hand, almost three
million Japanese voted for communist candidates for the
House of Representatives. This would indicate that the
communist party enjoys a fairly stable voting strength
of about one million. Communist candidates in the
January 23 election, however, were able to win over an
additional two million votes from persons who were
apparently willing to vote for communist candidates but
were not willing to support the communist party program
with respect to the Supreme Court justices. It is
believed that at least two million of the three million
votes the communists received are represented by non-
communists who voted for communist candidates for the
first time. There seems little doubt that many of these
new supporters of the Japan Communist Party were formerly
supporters of the Social Democratic Party.
Charter Nalion Spinles
Charles Nelson Spinks
Foreign Service Officer

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
TO
: NA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: February 15, 194
FROM : NA - Mr. Green WG.
sUJECT: Views of Mr. Kades, Deputy Chief of Government Section, SaaP GH
I am attaching a memorandum giving the highlights of
894.00
points made by Mr. Kades during the course of several hours'
discussion with him. Mr. Sneider of DRF who was present most
of the time has gone over my draft in order to check the
accuracy of remarks attributed to Mr. Kades.
Evidently the 1949 Japanese elections have deeply shocked
Mr. Kades who interprets the reeults as a repudiation of all
2
that the Government Section has worked for, notably the developt
ment of a strong middle-class political group which could
effectively oppose the Democratic Liberals. He concedes that
5
Government Section interference in Japanese affairs may have
4
served to undermine the very cause for which that Section
6
was striving. He also concedes that the desideratum is an
extensive disengagement by GHQ from operational interference
in Japanese affairs - a point of view which, he claims, the
Government Section has espoused for some time now but which
has been effectively opposed by ESs. In this conflict between
GS and ESS, the latteris hand is said to have been very much
strengthened by the stabilization directive.
an
My overall conclusion is that, largely as a result of
the scandals and recent elections, Headquarters' enthusiasm
has finally given way to disillusionment. The time is evidently
propitious for insistence upon a real enforcement of all NSC
13/2 policies, which, I am convinced, provide in their entirety
a positive solution to many of the difficulties we are currently
encountering in Japan.
894.
SES
ECRET
9
FILE
FILED
SECRET
X 018057
5

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Here are some mental notes made during a soriee of infe
talks with Mr. Charles Kades, Deputy Chief of the Government
Section, SCap, HQ. Mr. Kades 1s in Washington on a 120 day
general liaison assignment. Unless otherwise indicated, the
following comments are attributable to him:
1. Election Results
a) As Mr. Justin Williams had pointed out in a private
memorandum, the total vote of the left-wing parties (Socialists
and left-ward) had remained about the same over the last three
elections, proving that the JCp had made its gains at the expense
of the Socialists. Likewise the Democratic Liberal gains had
been at the expense of the Democratic Party.
Comment: Actually, the DL-D combined popular vote has
increased 8% since 1947, while the S-CP combined popular
vote has declined by 7% over the same period.
b) The JCP has almost reached the peak of its fortunes.
The peak would come shortly, following the anticipated shift to
the JCP of Jiichiro Matsumoto, influential left-wing leader of
the Social Democratic Party who was recently purged as Vice-
President of the House of Councilors. Matsumoto is the leader
of the ETA (outcaste) class. His transfer of allegiance to the
JCP would probably be accompanied by a similar shift to the JCP
of the affiliations of most of his followers who number around
three million.
Comment: Matsumoto was purged on January 24, 1949, at
the direct behest of Yoshida possibly for political
reasons. The timing and circumstances of his purging
appears to be related to his reported decision to join
the Communists.
c) The DL victory may be mainly attributed to: (1)
the scandals and ineptitude of the Socialists and Democrats,
(2) the fact that the above parties were tainted with collabora-
tion with the occupation, (3) Yoshida's effective tactics. In
the latter connection Yoshida based his campaign on a subtle
appeal to Japanese nationalism. He characterized the DL's as
the only party representing true Japanese national interests and
aspirations. He took advantage of the known critical attitude
of the State Department toward the purge to seek public favor
by promising to establish, if elected, a purge review board. He
spoke of an immediate "provisional" peace treaty. He even cam-
paigned in a kimono.
2.
SECRET

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
-2-
2. Future Political Developments
a) The DL's are in such a controlling position that
they need make concessions to no one. Their strength is expected
to inorease over the next few monthe since many independents and
Inukai faction Democrats are now on the threshhold of joining
the DL'B.
b) The DL's are the reincarnation of the Seiyukai and
the Minseito. They are directly affiliated with a number of
right-wing militant, extremist groups. The party "front" man
is Yoshida but the real leader is Hatoyama who is closely allied
with the old Zaibatsu. Key posts in the new Cabinet will probably
be filled by Hatoyama men. This will be an important point to
watch.
c) While post-war cabinets have invariably lost support
and prestige in measure as they continued in power, this is
not expected to be the fate of the DL's. The real weakness
of the other cabinets was the fact thet they were based on
unworkable coalition compromises. Yoshida'ε Cabinet is charac-
terized by good discipline, no need to compromise, appeal to
racial sovereignty.
Comment: Racial sovereignty is the current slogan of the
JCP. Mr. Kades differentiated between the DL and JCP view
of racial sovereignty as follows: The DL party views racial
sovereignty as complete restoration of Japan's sovereignty
and prestige. It is the DL view that foreign investments
in Japan are not a derogation of sovereignty but a means of
furthering the national economic interests. The Communists
talk complete Japanese sovereignty and emphasize that US
investments in Japan are a derogation of that sovereignty.
d) The future of the Socialist Party 1s black. For a
long time to come it will be an opposition party but as such it
will be caught in a squeeze between the full opposition role
which the JCP will be able to follow and a modified opposition
role which will have less forceful appeal and which may continue
to bear the taint of being more pro-Us than pro-Japanese.
e) The prospects for a two party system in Japan
are poor simply because there is no group which can effectively
oppose the formidable old guard conservatives. For two years
now, the Government Section has done everything possible to
support first the Socialist and then the Democratic Party as
the"other" party.
SECRET
Comment

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
- 3 -
Souicurpeitya.RThe
Comment: Possibly it was for this precise reason that
the Democratic Party failed so miserably at the polls.
If any "other" party is to be nurtured, the process
should be most subtle and inconspicuous. As for the
party to be so developped, the choice of the Socialists
or a labor party would seem to be more logical, since the
DL and Democratic Parties, always ideologically affiliated,
are now in the process of actual merger. If the Sooialist
Party is excessively weak and ineffective, those strong
politically-conscious labor groups, which are now anti-
Communist, may have no party to turn to but the Communists.
3. Future Relations between SCAP and the Japanese Government
a) Yoshida has never been susceptible to GHQ pressure.
With his present overwhelming mandate, his attitude will certainly
be even more uncooperative. It is expected that the Yoshida regime
will respond to no advice, pressures, and threats from anyone
except General MacArthur. Even the latter's advice will have to
be presented in writing if it is to be effective. Yoshida's
purpose in pursuing this probable tactic will be (1) to discourage
GHQ interference, (2) to make manifest SCAP interference in the
Japanese Government thereby increasing the unpopularity of the
ocoupation, (3) to place on SCAp the responsibility for unpopular
measures, especially those connected with stabilization (crop
collection, tax enforcement measures). On such moves as strengthen-
ing the police or modifying the purge, however, Yoshida may be
willing to accept public credit.
b) The moral of political developments to date is that
interference in Japanese affairs pays off badly for the occupation.
Yet what alternative is there if the occupation is charged with the
responsibility of taking Japan off the American taxpayers' backs
through such measures as an all-out stabilization drive that
cannot succeed without almost direct occupation enforcement? Here
1s the dilemna. As long as the Japanese know that come "hell or
high water" the U.S. will feed and clothe Japan in the interests
of U.S. politico-strategic objectives, no amount of threats can
evoke from the Japanese the responsibility, direction and drive
necessary for carrying out a successful stabilization program.
Comment
SECRET

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
Comment: There seems to be no pat answer to this dilemma.
De-emphasis on U.S. absolute need for Japan as a "strategio
frontier", as a "bulwark of democracy", etc. is a partial
answer. A sharp curtailment of ESS personnel and funotions,
with transfer of its rehabilitation operations to ECA, might
afford another partial answer.
4. National Public Service Law
a) The National Public Service Law had little or nothing
to do with the Socialist election debacle.
b) Both Blaine Hoover and James Killen took extreme
views on the NPSL. Too much attention was paid in GHQ as to
whether Hoover or Killen was right; insufficient thought was
given to a reasonable compromise. The view was shared by many
in the Government Section that the correct solution was a separa-
tion of the Communications Ministry into a Postal Ministry and
a Government Telecommunications Corporation, with the latters'
workers receiving the same arbitration-mediation advantages as
the railroad and other Government corporation workers.
Comment: The foregoing suggested solution was precisely
that offered by Mr. Draper in a personal radio to SCAp on
October 16, 1948. This radio was evidently not circulated
below the Chief of Staff.
5. Police
a) The Government Section did not welcome State-War radio
to CINCFE of November 22, 1948, interpreting paragraph 7 of NSC 13/2
to require establishment of (1) adequate mobile national police
reserves, (2) separate national agency for internal security, and
(3) broadened coordinative powers for the National rural police.
The Government Section took particular exception to the creation
of a mobile national reserve, for which it saw no need. The JCP
has no arms or other equipment for taking direct revolutionary
action. So far, National rural police units have been adequate
for quelling riots such as the Korean riots at Osaka.
Comment: From all press and G-2 accounts, the Japanese police
were incapable of coping with the rioters.
b) A more centralized police system runs the danger of
becoming an instrument for totalitarian control through infiltra-
tion by the JCP or by ultra-nationalists into Tokyo HQ.
Comment
SECRCI

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
- 5 -
Comment: A decentralized police structure encounters
dangers of exposing local police to the corruptive
influence of local bosses or to infiltration of extremist
elements. Communist influence, for example, though rela-
tively weak nationally is strong in the cities and in
Hokkaido; and a decentralized system would seem to lend
itself more to Communist designs than a centralized one.
This is evident from the reactions of Derevyanko at the
January 5, 1949 meeting of the ACJ. On the other hand,
it is probably true that a strong, centralized police
system would be more conducive to the aspirations of
extreme rightist elements.
c) The NRP HQ in Tokyo has set up a central investiga-
tion bureau which helped in handling the investigation of
recent government scandals. It is a small bureau of deteotives
aiding local and national police. Any formalization of this to
FBI proportions is feared since it might revive the secret police.
Comment: Mr. Kades admitted that the Japanese would
probably introduce an FBI on their own after the
occupation and that it might be preferable to intro-
duce an FBI now under the tutelage of the Occupation.
d) The State-Army radio of November 22, 1948, was accepted
as a directive but SCAp is not proceeding with the implementation
of certain sections since he is not aware that there is any
"proposed legislation amending the Police Law" to which the
radio referred.
Comment: There is plenty of evidence (see DRF Information
Note No. 247 of February 8, 1949) in the Japanese press
that the revision of the police law has been under active
and serious consideration over the last few months. It is
clear that almost all Japanese Government officials favor
the moves proposed in the State-Army radio.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
2/15/49
SECRE

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.90)
hitltosald
11
NORTHEAST A AFFARS
FEB 251949
nwa
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Uffice of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FEB 251949
DIRECTOR
Department of State
894.00/2-1849
XP
8940021
Y/
8.40011
894.1312
APR7 1949
H

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.82)
STRIOTED
The new Yoshida Cabinet has pledged ite
nine-point Econo...io Stabilization Program and h
its deter. ination to combet couiuniam.
Prior to the organizution of the cabinet thero
prolongod nootintions between r. Yoshida and r. Imu
Ken, Fresident of the Desocretio Party, in whioh it 1m
stood ihst r. Inulei su ht a coalition. A bitter contro
broke cut in tre Jetooratio Ferty in th, faoe of which
r. Inuei cy woll ave onsidered thut it would be unwise
hinsolr to onter the Yosh da Jabinet.
Demoortic mrtioipo or in the Yo hida Cobinet under
r. Inultal's dlrtction  virttally spti the party, end
the sh.id: a o sbeehctions,  ic seronply opposed 
co.litin, ey uo rsptd  . Ihuka': I sadership and
e ltoupt to I eacn n nder a iim. wi vh she Soclal Demooratid
Farty loottins t bhe forr icn of a Rin. of coulltion opnoaiti
It seens not im pobe sle t t those Delo rtute who support parti
olpetion in the Yoshide C binet ay ba ub orbed in ti..e Into
tao Demoerebie bor i 1e oy.
the now ce inet is   pt er cteri icstion of politicel
linee, us t re o vh  ri e Lnis er Yoshida vill roceive
the sup ort ef ot thir eera u hers in tte lHouse
(the Inukad faot on). i: ua is yovorn ent vhe becking of
varre handr ud c he ous cee en ber . aile the conserva
tive camp is ti us turuter strs theuel he cidlle sroupias
(Dehoc tic are mi t  ver  e p bi s) wlich sufferod so
heavily in re vob on,
:i1 futi r reiucod in strongtn
Phe co. ao st)  let bis v os tie bh merore beuowes pro
portionetel sce.
is i aics been infored
tu t r. Ye a i   D re wombere iato his
cabinet, ses it  te b. olute jr ioy in the house,
is whe ros t or   e-e ticn cre et te ade vitt the
Tautked faet on o t De s tio Pesty. fore the eleotion
rt. Yorhjan feulin no  tor nce te b ve voald secure an
aosolu. se josl y, bliev  botl. les ru le and necess ry
to make sue  en e re ent
he abeopet o or all creups of
7
conserv tivo J  inalien
to a sin  a  reced arty Jould
in y   b
  .
61.2

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.92)
Mer
THE AMERICAN COUNCIL ON JAPAN
55 LIBERTY STREET
NEW YORK 5, N. Y.
Members
Office c1
Mr. JOSePH W. BALLANTINE
FAR EASTERN AFFOIHS
Mr. Kennth Scott Latourtt
THe HonoraBlE WIlLIAM R. CAstLe
FEB  3 1949
Mx. C. E. MRYER
COLONEL W. CAREY CRANe, RET.
. COMON P
Mr. JOín CURTIS
ÀDMIRAL WILLJAM V. Pratt, Ret.
Mr. EUgene DooMAN
DIVISION OF
Mr. ANTOINE RAYMOND
TH Honorl JosepH C. GRew
ADMIRAL THOMAS C. HART, ReT.
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Mr. JON W. BRaNe SMItH
Bishor Hznry St. Gzongz Tucke
Mr. JAMeS LeE KAUFFMAN
Mr. LANgdON WArNeR
Mr. Harry F. Kern
FEB.241949
THE RevereND ChaRlES W. Wood
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
February 20, 1949
DC/R
Mr. W. Walton Butterworth, Director
Office of Far Eastern Affairs
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterworth:
be Returned to
On behalf of the American Council on Japan, I want to
say how happy we were that you were able to dine with us the
other night. The views of the State Department on Japan, as
you expressed them, were most reassuring, and the Council
welcomes the opportunity to cooperate in every way.
I hope to be in Washington again about the lst of March.
I will get in touch with you before that, and I do hope we
can arrange to get together again at that time.
Sincerely yours,
HannyL. diem
Harry  Kern
15
Chairman, Organizing Committee
HFK:8r
C
S
0
2
2
117283
049.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politioal Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 21, 1949.
No. 114
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
894.00/2-2149
Subject:
General Headquarters Report on Japanese Election
of January 23, 1949.
G-DIVISION OF
NORTHEAT AIAN AFFAIRS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Recd
111949
Washington.
Mar 7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
ACTION
FE-ENC
With reference to this Mission's despatch no. 94
of Februery 14, 1949, I have the honor to transmit to
the Department two copies of a report on the Japanese
DCR
general election of January 23 prepared by the Govern-
0
ment Section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander
CLI
for the Allied Powers, under date of February 3, 1949.
The General Headquarters report is divided into
two parts, the first dealing with the election of
members of the House of Representatives and the second
dealing with the referendun of judges of the Supreme
Court.
While emphasizing that the Democratic Liberal
894.00B
Party an. the Japan Communist Party are the only two
parties to increase their strength as a result of the
election, the General Headquarters report rejects the
view that this tends to divide the political field
into two extremes. The report contends that there
has been a tendency sinoe the beginning of the
Occupation for the party in power to lose popularity
FAP Confidential File
with the passage of time while the opposition forces
gain in strength, and that there has been growing
popular dissatisfection with the ineffectiveness of the
last two coalition cabinets.
There has been, as the report notes, growing
dissatisfaotion with coalition governments, while the
exposure
APR 1419
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 1l4,
February 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
exposure of political scandals has also adversely affeoted
the Democratic and Social Democratic Parties. Thus these
parties which were formerly in power have in fact lost
popularity; but the explanation offered by the report
would appear inadequate as regards the Demooratio Liberal
Party, which was in power from October 1948. Its tenure
of office, although comparatively short, certainly did
not diminish its popularity, notwithstanding the diffi-
culties it faced in the third and fourth sessions of
the Diet when considerable Occupation pressure was
exerted for the passage of the National Public Service
Law and the budget in a manner which greatly embarrassed
and handicapped the Yoshida Cabinet. The Democratic
Liberal rarty, therefore, has scored a phenomenal victory
in spite of being in power under circumstances which were
at times highly disadvantageous.
There is a marked tendency in the General Headquarters
report to minimize the significance of the Democratic
Liberal and Communist gains. It is no secret that the
Government Section of General Headquarters has long
entertained a dislike of Frime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru
and the Democratic Liberal Party for their allegedly
reaotionary ideclogy. It cannot help but be somewhat
displeasing, therefore, that this party has received
such an overwhelming endorsenent by the Japanese public.
While noting in the report that the Democratio Liberal
Party has a "positive irogrem calculated to appeal to
the habitually conservative averege Japenese," what par-
ticularly made the Democratic Liberal program, as formu-
lated and directed by ir. Yoshida, a really positive one
was the Frime Minister's determined efforts to assume
an independent position and resist multiple pressures
from innumerable General Headquarters officials. at no
time, so far as we are aware, has Wir. Yoshida shown any
inclination not to follow instructions or suggestions
which General Macarthur sees fit to give him; but it
is a marked characteristic of . Yoshida that he
considers that his Cabinet's policy shouli be of its own
devisIng rather than be a composite of the views which
happen currently to he held by the several score division
heads in Fead uarters peralleling the departnents of his
governnent. The conservative ideolo: y of the Demooratio
Liberal rarty can be taken for granted. The party is no
more conservative today than it was in 1947 when it
polled only 7,356, 321 votes and won only 151 seats in the
House. It was quite olearly Mr. Yoshide's display of
independence which ave him and his party greater appeal
in 1949 rather than his well known and accepted conserva-
tism.
The
CONF IDEN TIAL

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
The inorease in communist strength is also a
displeasing development which the General Headquarters
report only explains in part. Before the eleotion
there was a pronounced tendency in some seotions of
General Headquarters to believe that the communists
were incapable of making an effective showing or of
becoming an influential political force. The results
of the election demonstrate only too clearly, however,
that the communists are now in a good position to bid
for opposition leadership and that their pre-eleotion
popular front strategy may yet effect a signifioant
re-grouping of the left wing in Japanese politios.
In the light of these significant developments,
the statement in the General Headquarters report on
page 2 that "obviously all that happened in January 1949
was an internal redistribution of strength among the
parties advocating one or another form of socialization"
hardly conforms with facts.
The explanation of the failure of the middle grouping,
particularly the Sooial Democratic Party's defeat, is
on the whole accurate. But the report's suggestion that
the transfer of loyalty from the socialist camp to the
communist camp was more apparent than real is certainly
inaccurate. Prior to the election there was a significant
movement of left-wing Social Democrats into the communist
party, especially at the prefectural level. That these left-
wingers had long favored a line of action closer to the
communist line than to the socialist does not minimize
the significance o: this actual shift in party loyalty.
The total number of Social Jemocratic leaders who went
over to the communists was not great in absolute numbers.
But what is of much ore importance was the influence of
this shift on Japanese voters who had been inolined to
support the Social Democratic rarty because they agreed
with the policies of the party's left-wing leaders. When
the leftists left the Social Demooratic Party, they
carried with them into the conmunist fold the votes of
their supporters. Had the leftist leaders not deserted
the Sociai Demooratio Party, such voters would very likely
have voted the socialist rather than the communist ticket.
Finally, in discussing the Social Democratic debacle,
it is somewhat ironic thet the General headquarters report
states that the Social Democratic Party "suffered from a
long-standing divisi n in its ranks and a loss of
popularity among la cor groups tracea le to its participa-
tion in the efforts to amend goverrument employee labor
preotices,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Dospatoh No. 114
February 21, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
actually the socialiofs vitih
but sagpoitid it duning
2o ttas habr gaine v
practices, exploited by gommunist inspired labor factiont"
In other words, by supporting an Occupation-sponsored
labor program the Social Democrats lost a great deal of
the labor vote upon which they had hitherto depended so
heavily。
While some criticism may be made of the interpretation
of the political trends reflected in the election, the
General Headquarters report is a most comprehensive survey
which it is believed will be of value to the Department.
The section dealing with the administration of the eleotion
affords a full picture of the electoral process and
procedures now in force. Attention is also invited to
the detailed statistical data compiled for the report and
the chart giving the platforms of the political parties
on a comparative basis.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Two copies GHQ report on
Japanese general election
of January 23, 1949
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
3 February 1949
CRANDUM FOR: TH SUFREME CCMANDER.
SUBJECT
ELECTION REPORT.
The accompanying report on the Japanese national elections of January 23,
1949 covers the general election of members of the House of Representatives and
the popular review of the appointment of the judges of the Supreme Court, both
of which were conducted on that date.
The general election of members of the House of lepresentatives, although
the third such election since the beginning of the Aliied Occupation of Japan,
was the first to be conducted under the Constitution of Japan which became
effective on May 3, 1947. It furnished the first instance of the use of Article
69 of the Constitution, which provides:
"If the House of Representatives passes a'non-confidence
resolution, or rejects a confidence resolution, the Cabinet shall
resign en masse, unless the House of Representatives is dissolved
within ten (10) days."
The result of the election registered the confidence of the people in the Covern-
ment party.
Since the recent election was the first general election of members of the
House of Representatives following the arpointment of the judges of the present
Supreme Court, Article 79 of the Constitution called for a popular review of the
appointment of the judges to be held at the same time. The result of this ref-
erendum was an overwhe lming confirmation of the arpointments.
The Japanese people have given another demonstration of their ability to
operate the machinery of representative government.
/s/ Courtney Whitney
COURTNEY "HITNEY
Erigadier General, U. S. rmy,
Chief, Government Section.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
GENERA L E LE C T I ON S
O F
J A N U A R Y 23, 1949
"Peoples of the free world everywhere can take satisfaction
in this enthusiastic and orderly Japanese election which at a
critical moment in Asiatic history has given so clear and decisive
a mandate for the conservative philosophy of government."
MACARTHUR
Government Section
General Headquarters
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
P.RT I
GINERAL EIECTION OF IIPES OF THT HCUST OF RTRESTNT TIVES
JANUARY 23, 1949
A. Introductory Statement.
1455566
B. Background..
C. Occupation Interest in the lection.
1. Statement of the Supreme Commander.
2. Surveillance by the Cccupation Authorities.
D. Administration of the Election.
1. Legislation.
2. Supervision by the Electoral Authorities.
8
3. Screening of Candidates..
9
4. Regulation of Campaign......
9
5. Interpretation..
11
E. Campaign Publicity and Press Coverage....
13
1. Election Publicity...
13
2. Press Coverage and Editorial Opinion.
14
3. Prime Minister's Statement on the Election.
15
4. Political Platforms.......
16
F. Election Statistics.
18
1. Summary of Results..
18
2.
Comparative Statistics.
22
3.
Election Law Violations....
23
PRT II
REFERENDUM OF THE JUDGEB OF THE U REIE COURT
A. Introductory Statement.
25
B. Legal Provisions...
25
C. Referendum Procedure....
26
D. Results of the Referendum on the Judges of the Supreme Court.
28

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
P.RT I
GENERAL ELECTION OF MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
JANUARY 23, 1949
A. Introductory Statement
On January 23, 1949, in a nation-wide election which held a number of
surprises, the Japanese people for the third time since the beginning of the
Occupation elected a new House of Representatives. As on each of the two
preceding occasions the recent elcction resulted in a redistribution of
strength and a shifting of relative positions among the principal contending
parties in the House of Representatives. Unlike the preceding cccasions, how-
ever, the latest clection gave the winning party not a mere plurality but an
absolute ma jority of 264 or 56.7.6 of the 466 seats in the House. The final
results of the election in terms of number of seats won, as compared with the
respective party strengths just prior to the election were:
1
1
Elected
1
Seats Held
1
1
Party
1
Jan. 49
1
Doc. 48
1
Gain
1
Loss
1
1
1
1
Democratic Liberal
1
264
一
152
1
112
1
1
1
1
Democratic
1
68
t
90
1
22
t
1
1
1
Social Democratic
1
49
1
111
1
1
62
1
1
Communist
1
35
1
4
1
31
1
1
1
1
1
Peoples' Cooperative
14
1
29
一
1
15
1
1
1
Labor Farmer
1
7
1
12
1
1
5
1
1
1
Social Renovation
1
5
1
20
1
15
1
1
1
New Liberal
1
2
1
11
1
t
9
1
1
1
Japan Farmer
1
1
7
1
6
1
1
1
1
Other (Minor & Ind.)
1
21
1
11
1
10
1
1
1
1
Vacancies
1
1
19
1
1
19
1
1
1
Total
1
466
1
466
1
That the conservative Democratic Liberal Party headed by Prime Minister
Shigeru Yoshida would emorge in first place had been generally anticipated but
the decisiveness of its victory had not. It was also generally anticipated
that the Communists would register gains which, although minor in absolute
numbers, might loom large percentage-wise because of the small initial base,
but here again the final gains scored by this party were somewhat larger than
had been expected. Since all parties but the Democratic Liberals and the
Communists lost ground, there is a natural tendency to see in the results a
"polarization" of political forces away from the middle of the road in the
direction of the extreme right and the extreme left. This is an over-simplified
-1-

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
view, the validity of which fades in the light of an examination of the factors
which demonstrably affected the outcome with respect to each of the contesting
parties.
In the first place, there has been observable since the beginning of the
Occupation a tendency, natural under the circumstances, for the party in power
to lose popularity with the'passage of time and for the opposition forces to
gain in strength. Secondly, there had been a growing dissatisfaction among
the electorate over the apparent ineffectualness of the last two coalition
governments in meeting the critical problems of the day. Thirdly, the scandal-
ous revelations of corruption in high places uncuestionably dimmed the popularity
of the former coalition goverrment parties.
Doth the Democratic and Social Democratic parties had in the past received
campaign funds from contractors su sidized by the Reconstruction Finance Board.
These sources of funds were cut off with the arrest of former Economic Stabili-
zation Board Director General Kurusu and former Chief Cabinet Secretary Nishio.
In addition, the Social Democratic Party suffered fro a long standing division
in its ranks and a loss of popularity among labor groups traceable to its parti-
cipation in the efforts to amend government emplovee labor practices, exploited
by Communist-inspired labor factions. The near-disintegration of the Social
Democratic Party was dramatized by the failure of cuch prominent and personally
popular Socialist leaders as Katayama, Nishio, Nomizu and the Kato couple to be
reelected.
The gains made by the Communists are readily understood in view of the
apparent availability of adequate finances, skillful campaign strategy in not
scattering their forces, an, vigorous and effective electioneering. The collapse
of Nationalist resistance and the flicht of Chiang Kai hek before the Communist
advance in China, opportunistically exploited to the full in Japanese Communist
propaganda, may account for some of the Sonmunist rain. The greatest single
ally of the Communists, however, was the weakness of the Social Democrats and
the defection of former Socialists to the Communist camp. This transfer of
loyalty may have been more aprarent t an real, for the extreme left wing members
of the ccial Democratic Party had for a long time favored a line of action
closer to the Communist line than to the moderated socialism of the Social
Democratic Party. In terms of Diet seats, the left wins Social Democrats lost
23, and the Labor-Farmers, an extrome left wing splintor of the Social Democrats
formed in July 1948, lost 5, makin: a total cf 28 seats lost to the representa-
tives of extreme left wing views. That the Communists drew their gains from the
votes lost by the Social Democrats is evilent from the fact that the combined
votes garnered by all the parties advocating socialization in some form (Social
Democrat, Communist, Labor-Farmer, and Cocial Renovation) in the January 1949
election totalled 63,506 less than the total received in 1947, the year of
Social Democratic victory. Obviously all that happened in January 1949 was an
internal redistrihution of strength among the parties advocating one or another
form of socialization.
The Democratic Liberal Party as the chief opposition during the past
eighteen months gained from the mistakes and michaps of the government coali-
tion parties, but its decisive viccory cannot be explained on that score alone.
Contributing to its success in the January 1949 election were strong leadership,
adecuate finances, a wide-spread and efficient political machine, and a positive
program calculated to apoeal to the habitually conservative average Japanese.
The advance of Communism across Asia, as noted above, may have helped the
Japanese Communists some, but the chances are that it had a greater influence
on the size of the Democrytic Liberal victory. The multiplying signs of Com-
munist infiltration in Japanese labor and other or anizations were another in-
fluence in the same direction. For to the average Japanese the threat of
Communist power close by is an inducement to turn to the conservative fold as
to a safe haven. Over 3,370,000 more persons voted in the January 1949 elec-
tion than in the April 1947 election for the Houso of Representatives and all
of this additional vote went to the Democratic Liberals.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
In several respects the January 1949 election reflected the increasing
political maturity of Japanese parties and the Japanese electorate. Before
the election numerous comments were circulated to the effect that (1) the
Japanese always vote for individuals rather than for parties or principles;
(2) the legal restrictions on campaign activities weighted the odds over-
whelmingly in favor of incumbents and other well-known persons and against
new-comers; (3) the Japanese people were apathetic toward the election. These
comments were utterly refuted by the results of the election. The emphatic
swing toward the Dcmocratic Liberol Party, the poor showing made by independent
candidates and members of minor partics, and the defeat of a number of prominent
figures shows a definito inclination to vote for parties rather than for indi-
viduals. In spite of the initial advantage onjoyed by incumbent candidates,
43.5~ of the incumbent candidat  in the January 1949 election were defeated.
Of the successful candidates, 192, or 41.25 were "new faces" clected for the
first time; 31, or 6.6% were memb rs of former Diets, and 243, or 52:2% were
reelected members. As fer th reputed cisinturost of the electorate, the fol-
lowing figures speak for themselves:
Jonury 1949
April 1947
1
April 1946
1
1
Total Vote Cast
31,168,625
27,797,884
26,558,611
1
Ratio to Total Eligible
74.1%
1
67.9.5
1
72.1%
1
1
Candidatos participating in th. 1949 clection totalled 1,364 as compared
with 1,590 in 1947 and 2,770 in 1946, indicnting a continuing shrinkage in the
proportion of votes dissipated on hopeless candidates and an increasingly
meaningful channelling of th povir of th cI ctorate. There wos a sharp drop
in the numbur of wemon condid tes, 44 running in th 1949 clection as against
84 in 1947 and 71 in 1946. Of the 44 who ran, 12 were clccted, comparcd with
15 in 1947 nd 39 in 1946. The reduction in women condidrtes nd members-elect
reportedly reflected the unimpressive record mnde by a number of the women
members in the last Diet.
As on the preceding two similer occ sions the olection wns dministered
under the Japone se law for the loction of membors of the House of Representa-
tives but surveilled by Milit ry Gov mment and toctical troop units of the
Cccupation forces. The elcction was percuful, ord rly and above all free of
interference. Violations of the eloction lw reportd to th  authorities were
neither numerous nor sorious.
Before the clection there wns public discussion of a probably conservative
coalition led by the Democrotic Liburals nd including the Democr-ts and possibly
the Peoples' Cooper-tives, but s  rosult of its present dominont position the
Democratic Libural Party can, if it choos s, form  Cabinet to carry out its
governmental program without co lition or other assistence from any of the other
parties. If support from oth、r sourcus is accopted, it will be on the basis of
small, weak groups joining the winning tom nd will, therefore, be unattended
by such compromises or commitments as those which weakened nd handicapped the co-
alition cabinets of 1947 nd 1948 nd doomed them to carly collapse. From the
point of view of political stability nd the ability to carry out measures re-
quired by the Occup tion nd nocossary for national rehabilitation, the emergence
of a government led by onc party which controls a ma jority in the Dict is a turn-
ing point in the political development of post-war Jopan.
-3-

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
B. Background
Following the resignation in October 1948 of Prime Minister Hitoshi Ashida
together with his coalition Cabinet of Democrats, Social Democrats and Peoples'
Cooperative and the formation of a new government by Shigeru Yoshida, leader of
the Democratic Liberal Party, which for eighteen months had been in the opposi-
tion, a general election to select a new House of Representatives became in-
evitable. The Democratic Liberals did not command a majority in the House of
Representatives. A coalition with other conservative groups, even if it had
been feasible, would have produced a precarious majority at best, but it did
not prove possible in the existing circumstances. The House of Representatives
was sharply divided between the government bloc and the cpposition'parties and
both camps proved rigidly uncoopcrative and intransigent. Fur:her, the revela-
tions of bribery and official corruption which had come to light during the fall
of 1948 had implicated not only prominent members of the coalition cabinet but
a number of Diet members as well. The public was disillusioned and confused.
The problems facing the Japanese government, including measures necessary to
carry out Occupation objectives and to promote rehabilitation, required a govern-
ment which en joyed the confidence of the public, The need for a new House of
Representatives was indisputable.
Prime Minister Yoshida's intention to dissolve the existing House'of Repre-
sentatives was made known soon after his assumption of the Premiership, but the
action was delayed pending enactment by the Diet of the bill revising the
National Public Service Law in which General Headquarters, SCAP had an avowed
interest. This bill was passed on November 30. The Government's budget plan
which was related to the public service salary question, remained as unfinished
business when the third (special) Diet session closed on November 30 but was
presented again as a supplementary budget to tho fourth (regular) Diet session
which began on December 1, 1948. On December 4, 1948 Prime .inister Yoshida
in his administrative policy address to the House of Representatives in Plenary
Gession served notice on the opposition parties that the Government intended to
dissolve the House of Representatives two wecks after the submission of the
supplementary budget. He stressed that his Cabinet was a "minority government"
and that the dissolution of the current Diet would hasten the establishment of
a democratic political system in Japan and emphasized the necessity of stabiliz-
ing the political situation of post-war Japan through the speedy institution of
a two party political system.
On December 7, 1948 a conference of representatives of the opposition parties
agreed upon a request which was submitted to the Government by Gizo Tomabechi,
acting president of the Democratic Party, proposing (1) in the interest of a fair
election that the Government avoid holding the generol election during the year
end and new year season; (2) the opposition parties favor dissolution of the
House of Representatives; (3) a vote of non-confidence in the present Cabinet be
introduced; (4) the policy agreement previously entered into by the Democratic,
Social Democratic and Peoples' Cooperative parties was not binding on the minor
parties.
On December 21, 1948 the Diet passed the Government's new wage bill for
Government employees, clearing the way for approval of the supplementary budget.
On December 22 the supplementary budget bill was passed. On December 23 the
House of Rourcsentatives by a vote of 227 to 130 passed the opposition motion
of non-confidence in the Yoshida Cabinet. On the same day the Imperial Rescript
counter-signed by the Prime Minister was received by Speaker Komakichi Matsuoka
and the House was dissolved. The Rescript stated that the House was being dis-
solved in accordance with the provisions of Articles 69 and 7 of the Constitu-
tion of Japan. This was the first time the House of Representatives had been
dissolved under the new Constitution and the first time Article 69 thereof had
been invoked.
-4-

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
On the following day, the Cabinet met to discuss post-dissolution issues.
In a press conference following the meeting, Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida
declared that his Government would seek the confidence of the people in order
to put its policies into practice. "Our Cabinet has sustained considerable
wounds during the past Diet session," Yoshida declared, "but such wounds are
only slight and we hope to become healthier and stronger hereafter." The
Prime Minister characterized as deplorable the events which took place in the
Third and Fourt Diet sessions and said he hoped in the next general election
that the people would select a new Diet of which they could really be proud.
He further stated that he hoped to realize a two-party political system in
Japan, and that he would strive to brin; all conservative clements within a
single powerful party.
On December 27, 1948 the Imporial Edict setting the date of the general
election was published in the Official Gazette. The Edict stated as follows:
"I hereby prcclaim that guneral election of members of the
House of Represent tives shall be held on the 23rd day of January
1949, in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 and Article
54 of the Constitution of Japan, as well as Article 18 of the Law
for the Election of Members of the House of Representatives."
C, Occupation Interest In The Election
1. Statement of the Supreme Commander for the llied Powers
The interest of the Allicd Powers in the impending clection was expressed
by General MacArthur in the following paragraph from his New Year's Message to
the Japanese people on January 1, 1949:
"The general clection just head will tost your wisdom in the
selection of à leadership to whom you will in this crucial period
entrust the sovereign power. The times recuire a great dignity and
capacity for wise statusmanship and such should be the measure of
your choice -- men capable of elovating your nationel logislative
forum to the standard set by the finest of your trnditions. There-
after the issue will rest sou-rely upon the type of lendership they
bring to the country and the resolute will by which each among your
citizenry acouits his individunl rosponsibility in the grent task
of ensuring that Japan may live."
2. Surveillance by the Occupation Authorities
The clection surveillance procedure omployed in the general elections of
1946 and 1947 having proved highly s tisfactory was adopted again in the 1949
election. This consisted of genural observation and surveillance of the pre
election campaign, the administration of the clection procedures, the voting,
and the ballot counting, performed by Milit ry Gov rnment Teams and tactical
units of the Occupation forces to insure thot the clcction laws were fairly
and honestly administ red nd that the lection was conducted without official
or other interfurence from ny source.
Command instructions cherging the Commanding Coneral, Cighth Army with
responsibility for the surveillance of the eluction were disntched on December
24, 1948. These instructions were accompnicd by two handbooks which included
annotated text of all laws and ordinances pertinent to the election.
Continuous contact was maintained between the Covernment Section of General
Headquarters, SCAP and the Nilitary Government Section, Headquarters, Eighth
Army. Until the termination of the election the Covernment Section remained the

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
the principal point of contact with the Japanese National Election Management
Commission. As in previous elections under the Occupation the Military Govern-
ment Teams were authorized to report directly to General Headouarters, SCAP any
matters which in their judgment required expeditious action such as a serious
infringement of the election laws, or criticism of activities on the part of
Occupation personnel in connection with the campaign or the election.
The Military Ccvernment Teams began actual surveillance of the election
at the time of the announcement on December 2?, 1948. Several days thereafter
a surveillance team from other units of the Occupation forces was assigned and
began operation in each of th: 117 electoral districts of Japan. Just prior
to election day the program was augmented by many additional teams so that on
election day and until the counting of the ballots there were ll68 surveillance
teams actually in the field, of which 139 came from Eighth Army units, 686 from
I Corps units, 304 from IX Corps units, 3 from the U. S. Navy, 7 from the U. S.
Marine Corps, and 29 from COF. A surveillance team consisted of an officer or
a non-commissioned officer of the first three grodes, an interpreter and a
driver, and was ecuipped with a motor vehicle.
Surveillance teams were physically present in the electoral districts
throughout the entire campaign and  ere in constant contact with the various
local election administration committees, with candidates, political party
leaders, newspaper men, and perscnnel of the law enforcement agencies. They
attended political meetin~s, observed campaign procedures and interviewed mem-
bers of the general public. If violations of the law were reported to have
occurred, reports were imrediately sent to Headouarters, Eighth Army, where
the Military Government Section indicated the action to be followed. No major
violations were found ard no criticism of the act ivi ies of Occupation rersonnel
were received.
On the voting and counting days the surveillance teams visited over 903 of
all the polling stations end counting places throughout Japan at least once on
each day, subsecuently making reports to the Military Covernment Teams based on
their observations.
D.
Administration Of The Mlection
Legislation
The general election of 1949 was held under the law for the election of
the members of the House of Repre entatives, the same law which had governed
the election of April 1947 with certain chan es which had been made by the
Japanese Diet early in 1948. Tiese amendments were aimed at equalizing the
competitive campaign opportunities of all cancidates by placing certain limita-
tions on electoral publicity, speech making and other campaigning by candidates,
parties and supporters, and providing more stringent penalties for election law
violations, including bribery, forgery, i timidation, violence, abduction or
official neglect of cuty or abuse of power.
The Law Concerning the Regulation of Politicnl Contributions and Expendi-
tures, enacted by the Diet on 30 June 1948, increased the penalties for viola-
tions of the provisions of the Law for the lection of Members of the House of
Representatives approximately tireefold, and in sore cases more. For example,
violations calling for fines of ¥1,000 were inereasod to as high as ¥25,000;
¥20,000 fines were increased to ¥35,000; ¥30,000 increased to 75,000; etc.
The Law Concerning the Regulation of Political Contributions and xpendi-
tures,--also popularly called the "Corrupt Tracticos Law,"--was enacted with
the aim of insuring fair and impartial elections, hoth netional and local.
-6-

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
This law, as its title indicates, requires all political parties, political
organizations, and candidates to report contributions and expenditures, re-
quires that certain appropriate records and vouchers pertaining to contribu-
tions and expenditures be maintained within the political parties and organiza-
tions. It prohibits certain types of contributions.
The highlights of this law follow:
(1) Prohibits purgees from making contributions in any election.
prefectural, from making political contributions.
(3)
Prohibits candidates from making contributions within the
area in which the candidate is running for office.
(4)
Prohibits persons from making or receiving cloction contri-
butions anonymously, or under any name other than his full
legal name, together with his logal addross.
(5)
Prohibits foreign naticncls or agencies from making election
or campairn contributions.
(6) Prohibits contributions through a third person.
(7)
Requires that political partics, political organizations, and
individual candidates register the names and addresses of respon-
sible officials with the National Election Mnagement Commission
or the Prefectural Electoral Administration Committee.
(8)
Recuires that a candidate report in writing all contributions
made by him for the period of one yoar prsceding the date of
announcement of the clection for which he is a candidate.
(9)
Requires that political parties, political organizations, and
individual candidates report to the National lection Manage-
ment Commission or the Prefeoctural Mlectoral .dministration
Committee the nanes, acdresses, dates of birth, and dates of
appointment of responsible pariy officials, location of the
political party or organization, within 7 days of its estab-
lishment.
(10) Requires that political parties, political organizations, and
individual cardidates keep account books, rocords, and other
documents pertairing to all contributions, to include the
names, addresses, and occupations of all porsons making the
contributions. (For organizations makin" contributions, their
names, address of main office, and name ond address of repre-
sentative).
(1l) Recuires that political parties, political organizations, and
individual candidates keep account bocks, records, and other
documents indicating all paymerts made on b half of the polit-
ical party or association. Records must also indicate the
name, address, and occupation of all rorsons to whom such pay-
ments have been made, together with the objuct, amount, and
date of such payment s.
(12) Requires that any person oth r than the treasurer of a polit-
ical party or organization who accepts contributions or makes
payments for or on behalf of said party, shall roport the
details of such payments or contrihutions to th: treasuror
within 7 days, or immediately upon recuest of the treasurer.
.7 .

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
(13) Requires that vouchers for any payments exceeding ¥1,000
made by the political party, political organization, or
other organization, be collected and maintained by the
treasurer of the political party or organization.
(14) Requires that the treasurer of a political party, or polit-
ical organization submit a report to the National Election
Managoment Commission prior to tho tenth day following each
April 30, August 31, and December 31, which must include
the following items:
All contributions and all other income received by
a political party, or political organization, and
all contributions and incomes received on their
behalf.
b. Contributions r cuiv d by a political party or
political organization which xceed 1,00o (or
aggregate amounts for iduntical contributions)
must indicate name, acdress, and occupation of
contributor, and amount and date of contribution.
C.
Contributions roceived by other than a political
party, political organization, or other organiza-
tion which excced ¥500 must indicate th: name,
address, and occupation of contributor, and amount
and date of contribution.
d.
All payments made by a political party, or polit-
ical organization.
e.
Payments made by a political party, or politicel
organization which exceed 1,000 (500 for other
than political parties) must indicate name, ad-
dress, and occupation of th. person to whom such
payments were made ond the object and date.
2. Supervision by the Eloctoral Authorities
Before the elections of April 1947, sunorvision over Japaneso clections
was exercised by locnl executives: govarnors, mayors, and headsmen. For the
first time in the history of Japanese politicol affnirs, the elections of
pril 1947 were supervised by special conmittu s lected by local lepislatures
and responsible for all clections, national or locel, which were held in their
areas of rusponsibility.
On the basis of the experience thus derived, the functions of these com-
mittecs were developed nd strengthened by lugislation. An election administra-
tion committee was set up in each local ontity. These committees were respon-
sible to the public at lorge and chorged with suporvision of all elections con-
ducted in their area of jurisdiction. Ench city, town, village, and Tokyo ward
thus had a committee exercising on its own account immedinte control over the
election in its own locality, under the general supervision of prefectural
committees. The prefectural committees had six members, including a chairman;
others had four. The mothod of electing committees permits of bipartisan mem-
bership. A committee meetin was held at the recuest of any member. All com-
plaints regarding the conduct of the lection wor normally made, in the first
instance, to the committoe.
-8-

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
An innovation since the elections of April l947 was the establishment
in December of that year, of the N tional lection Management Commission,
under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister's Office. This Commission is
composed of nine regular members and nine alternate members, nominated by
the various parties. The Commission assumed certain of the functions pertain-
ing to elections once performed by the former Home Ministry having to do with
the coordination of the work of the various levels of local committees,
statistics gathering and reporting, and so forth.
Under the law creating the National Election Management Commission, en-
acted December 9, 1947, the Commission is responsible for the administration
of all popular elections. This includes elections for both national and local
offices, as well as those held for ratification of amendments to the Constitu-
tion and, as in the present election, for th: popular review of Supreme Court
Judpes. Among the specific duties of the Commission are the sccuring of neces-
sary appropriations assisting in th: procuroment of necessary paper, and other
preparations concerning the olcctions.
Although the National Election Management Commission is placed under the
jurisdiction of the Prime Ministor, it operates as n autonomous body govemed
by the decisions of its members.
All political parties nd political associations must register with the
Commission and file with it financial statements or any other data recuired.
The Commission coordinated the work of all independent local committees:
There was an election administration committue in cach of the 46 prefectures,
and 10,O50 cities, towns, nd villages each had an clection administration
committee under the direction of the prcfectural committee. In addition, each
of the six ma jor cities (Tokyo, Yokohama, Osaka, Kobe, Nagoya, Kyoto) had an
election administration comrittee in each of their wards. Thus, Tokvo had 23
ward election administration committees. In short, in the recent election
there were over 10,000 subsidiary clection administration committees under the
46 prefectural election committees, whose work was supervised by the National
lection Management Commission.
Defore the end of December 1948, the National loction Management Commis-
sion had already completed all the necessary preparations to discharge its
duties thoroughly, beginning with the acceptance of candidacy applications and
ending with the opening of the polling stations on election day, so that an
orderly clection would result. The Commission set up 42,900 polling stations
throughout the country to accommmodato the 42,090,916 cligibl voters. In the
election of 1949, th Commission operated on n hudgut of ¥770,000,000.
3. Screening of Candidotes
All candidates who had not previously reccived certificates of eligibility
pursuant to screening under th. provisions of SCAPIN 550 were screened by the
Japanese Government before being admitted as condidates in the 1949 clection.
Of the 291 aspirants so examined only one, Tosoyo Oda, Tokyo independent, was
barred under Catcgory G of SCAPIN 550 becruse of his ultranationalistic writings.
19 candidates were former purgees who had been released fram the disabilities of
the Purge as the result of ppeals, nd of this numher 8 wore clected. Prominent
among such successful candidates wer Kon Inukai, Ryuta Komine, nd Shigeru Hori;
notable among such reinstated purgees who were defeated in the clection were
Watara Narahashi, and Tada Tanabe.
4. Regulation of Campaign
All candidates were required to file candidacy pplications before January
13, 1949, the deadline date as provided by law.
- 9 -

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
As already noted, the Japanese election laws provided stringent regulation
of the election campaign. The basic election law for members of the House of
Representatives was amended by the "Law Concerning the Provisional Exceptions
to the Election Campaign and Others" of 29 July 1948, and the "Cabinet Order
Relating to the Enforcement of the Law Concerning Temporary Exceptions Relating
to the Election Campaign, otc., No. 192" of 29 July 1948.
These revisions affecting the election campaign in 1949 in many respects
differed from the regulations in force for the previous election. The highlights
of these revisions were as follcws:
a.
Regulation of campaign speech-making:
Eloction campaign speeches were limited to the following:
(1) Competitive speech acetings among condidates
sponsored by the city, town, or village election
administration committee. (Ecch candidate was
permitted to porticipate in onc such meeting in
ench city, town, or village, nd - total of 30
in his election district).
(2)
Thirty individual speech meetings by e-ch candi-
date at a public school or a hall provided by the
city, town, or village election administration
committee.
(3)
Strect speech meetings: no limit in number, pro-
vided the candidate wes present.
(4) Rndio broadcasts: 3 times.
b.
Use of publicity literature was limited to tho following:
(1) Newspaper advertisement: 2 times.
(2)
Signboards, posters, stickers, nd plocords used
at street speech me tings nd candidate's campaign
office and on motor vehicle.
(3)
One thousand frec postcards nd onvelopes (with
postoge) supplied by the Govemment (the National
Election Monagement Conmission) to cach candidate.
C.
Other:
(1)
) Prepar-tions for holding competitive speech meetings
and individual spesch meetings, as well as the
announcement of speech meetings, were r quired to be
made by the city, town, or vill-re election admin-
istrotion committee at th exponse of th notional
trensury.
(2)
Fifteen free passes enabling the holder to ride in
public or priv-tely managed railwoys, streetcars,
etc., were issued per cendidate. (This expense to be
borne by the national tresury).
(3)
Use of good offices to obtain gasoline nd charcoal
for motor vehicles to bo used by condidates in the
election campaign.
-10-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
(4) Use of motor vehicles, loudspeakers, and boats
was restricted to one each per candidate.
(5)
The offering or receiving of food or drinks in
connection with the campaign were absolutely
prohibited.
5. Interpretation
On the whole the dministration of the clection procedures by the National
Election Managoment Commission wos praiseworthy, At one point during the cam-
paign, however, there arose some apparent confusion on the manner of application
of certain provisions of the clection laws which, lthough intended to prevent
unfair campaign practices, could, if litor-lly nd strictly construed, result in
unduly confining the offorts of condidates nd their supporters and in restrict-
ing the normal freedom of the Press, including its right to support or oppose
particular parties or condidates. The question was ctually raised as to whether,
under the pertinent provisions of the existing legislation, the Japanese Press
could legally support or oppose individunl candidates or parties. Representatives
of the National Eloction Lian gement Commission and the Office of the Attorney
General et first were inclined to construe such activities as violations of the
Law Concerning tho Temporary Exceptions to lection Campnigns promulgated on July
29, 1948. According to th Attorney General's initial interpretation, activities
of candidates and parties could be fully reported in the Pross but, if a news-
paper should go beyond the point of merely reporting ovents and should urge sup-
port of or opposition to any candidate or party, it could be charged with violatin
the elcction laws.
Such a situation obviously required clarification nd this was ccomplished
by means of a conference held in the office of the Covernment Section, Ceneral
Hendcuarters, SCAP, on Janu ry 15, 1949, in vhich represent tives of the Govern-
ment Section ond the Civil Information nd Educntion Section, Ceneral Headouarters.
SCAP, met with representatives of the Notional lection Lanagement Commission, the
Attorney General's Office, nd the Natior-l Rural Police Hendouarters. At-this
conference Brigadier General Courtney hitney, Chief of Government Section, stated
in part as follows:
"I feel that the question immedintely before you is a fundamental
one. It is our purpose to give all ssistance in resolving the question
in the interest of the people of Jpen.
"There is involved a cucstion concorning freedom of the Press,
freedom of the individual, and respect for the agencies of the Jap-nese
Government. It is not our purposo to inject ourselves into the opera-
tional procedures of agencies of the Japanese Government, but rather to
join with you in asserting our desire th-t no principles of the Consti-
tution be violated by any imrroper interpr totion of existing laws.
"Fundamental to that Constitution is th: provision that freedom
of expression is guarant ed and that the Covernment of Japan shall be
responsive to the freo will of the J:panose cople. We do intend to
join with you in insuring thet these funaomont-ls of the Constitution
are not violated by low or by an interpret-tion of the law. Had we
felt that the Constitution was viol-ted by ny changes in the lection
Law under consideration by th. Jiet, we would hove been forced to inter-
vene and to hold up those proposed changes. It is fundamental to the
responsibility of this He-dquarters to insure that basic frecdoms and
rights guaranteed by the Constitution are pres rved inviolate to the
people so long as we are here. e did not intervene in thot legisla-
tive process because we ssumed that th logislation would be broadly
construed in the light of th raramountcy of the public interest. For
- 11-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
there can be no free and enlightened expression of the people's
will unless the people can be fully informed concerning facts
about which they are called to register their will.
"Since I have been in Japan I have observed a tendency on
the part of judicial, quasi-judicial, nd administrative bodies
to place a too literal interpretation on laws and administrative
regulations, nd I hove on numerous occasions urged that official
thinking and official int.rpretations be broadened so as to encom-
pass thc public int rest. Bec use, after all, the public interest
should be master of all official thinking and official action.
"Now that is prccisely the issue presently involved: a narrow,
literal, arbitrary int.rpretation of the body of law which governs
the elections or a rond, st-tesmanlike interpretation which serves
the public intirost. My odvice to you and to every section of the
government here ropresented, in the interest of insuring free elec-
tion and an untrammelled exprossion of public will, is that you con-
strue all laws which you are called on to administer in the light of
constitutional mandates.
"And in so coing, whenever there is douht in your minds concern-
ing the proper interpretation of laws or regulations you can make no
mistake if you resolve that doubt in the int rest of frec oxpression.
This is a fundamental requiremont of all law in Japan. You must
understand that it is not necessary that the provisions of the Con-
stitution be repeated in every Act of th Siet. Those provisions are
superimposed over ell laws enacted in Japan. You can never fail in
meeting your trust and rosponsibilities if you read into every law
every provision of the Constitution. Arply every law and administer
every law as if every provision of the Constitution were written
therein. That, of course, centlemen, is your safost course since
your first loyalty and devotion is to the Constitution.
"I bolieve that those provisions of the clection law which
interfere with or may be int rpr ted to restrict the freedom of
the individual, whether they be applied to members of the electorate,
political parties, candidates, or the press, should be interpreted
in such fashion as to insure preserv tion of individual liberties
guaranteed by the Constitution. I r cognize that ther: re some
seeming conflicts between the laws nd th Co.stitution. I want to
see a broad, statesmanlike int rpretetion of those provisions, with
unfailing devotion to the prccepts of th Constitution. This is a
challenge to your wisdom, the brendth of your minds and your devotion
to the public interest."
At the conclusion of the corforence, Shunkichi Unno, head of the National
Election Management Commission, on buhalf of the Japanese officinls present, ex-
pressed apprecintion and groement, but in view of cortain difficult cuestions
which might arise, indicnted th t Guneral Herdguart rs' advice and guidance might
occasionally be requested. It wes agreed thrt the National Election Management
Commission end other agencies of the Japanese Covernmont weuld make every effort
to resolve future questions nd coubts in the lirht of Gen ral "hitney's state-
ment, and that any residunl cuestions would be reforred to General Headguarters
for assistance in developing uiding principles.
On J-nu ry 18, efuer obtaining Cabinot pprov-l, the National Election
Management Commission issued t: following statomert:
"Necdless to say, it is the true funation of the press to
report to the public all nows freely and impartially. The Con-
stitution gurrantees the press freedom to oxpress opinion. This
-12 -

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
also in the spirit of the Press Code. It is therefore desired
that the press at the time of on election especially demonstrates
its true function nd speedily nd actively supply the voting
public fair and just opinions on political parties nd candidates.
We believe that in the ndministration of election laws these
principles should naturally be fully respected.
"The foregoing imposes on the press the obligation to'perform
its functions ns a responsible medin of public information, at all
times giving par mount importance to the promotion of the interests
of the people."
Following this relc se, the Notional Election Lanagement Commission, the
Attorney Goneral's Office, the N tional Rural Police Headauarters, and other
agcncies of the Japonese Cov rnment inst ructed oll prefectural ond local sub-
sidiaries to givo full considoration to the Pill of Rights contained in the
Constitution in dminist riny th election laws.
E. Comp in Publicity and Pross Coverage
1. lection Publicity
Candidotes nd politic-l parties were extonsively publicized during the
campaign period - by newsp pers, the Brondc sting Corporotion of Japan, the
Not ional Election Management Commissior. nd its brorches throughout Jopan, by
the Lengue of Political Educotion nd ot er organirtions nd gencies. The
intensive compaign efforts of individual candidates nd prties served also to
inform the clectorate concerning election issues nd party rograms.
The Press devoted extensive spece to the c mr ign throughout the election
period. In general newsp-pers gv, full cover ge without giving support to in-
dividual condidotes or parties, preferring instend to urge that support be ac-
corded parties nd individuals of conviction ond interrity. The Press also ad-
vocated that electors inform themsolves concerning compaign issues and that
voters exercise their franchise on clection day. Even those newspapers which
did support or oppose individual candidates gave xtensive publicity to major
parties and condidates. Many nowspapers expressed severe criticism of the laws
under which the clection was bein- conducted, holdin.- that some provisions were
excessively r strictive, tending thereby to reduee intorest in the campaign and
to give unfoir advantage to incumbent or well-known c ndidetes over "new faces".
This criticism served to publicize th lcctions nd undoubtedly cause many
voters further to exomine the records of condidetes nd parties.
All crndidates were given opportunity to cdress their constituencies by
means of radio. The Brordcnsting Corpor tion of Japan lso devoted extensive
time to the transmission of specific inform tion coneerning individual candidates
and major election issucs. In ddition, short iographical sketches of each can-
didate were broadcast ten times during the camp ign. Emphasis was lso given to
the importonce of onlirhtened prticipation in th olections.
The National lection Manngement Conmission did an extremely effective job
(1) in instructing all clection officinls and condidates concerning requiroments
of the election laws; (2) in informing the electorate concerning candidates and
election procedures; nd (3) in stimul-tins wid prend p rticip tion in the clec-
tion.
The Commission issued - series of informntional publications which were
distributed to all porsons with eny responsibility for the  dministration or en-
forcement of clection laws. At the st-rt of the c mpeign period prefectural
-13 -

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
election administration officials conferred with Commission heads in Tokyo.
Cubseguently, daily information bulletins were dispatched to all local units
by means of direct police telephone or radio.
Ench candidate was furnished a handbook explaining the laws under which
the elections were being conducted.
The Commission published 900,000 posters emphasizing the importance of the
election and the review of Supreme Court justices. Local prefectural offices
issued hundreds of thousands of leaflets similarly stressing the importance of
the election. The single most important piece of olection literature published
by the Commission was issucd in 53 ditions, one for each election district, and
was distributed to occh of tho 1?,O00,C0o voting fomilies in Japan. This bulletin
contained biographical information concerning candidntes in cach district. Voting
families also received full information rel tive to review of Supreme Court jus-
tices.
The Commission also utilized street pancls, radio interviows, sound trucks
and loud speaker nnouncements at all railway stnticns in an effort to encourage
widespread particiption in the eloctions.
Notable assistance in publicizing the election was riven by the League for
Political Educ tion for Dumocracy, n independent non-partisan agency of the
Diet, which distributed hundreds of thousonds of post rs, hand-bills and pam-
phlets designed to stimulate widespread interest nd prticipation in the elec-
tion. The Leegue also made extensive use of th radio, motion pictures, kamishi-
bai end all other information medi? in n effort to gut out the vote on election
day.
2. Press Coverage end Editorial Opinion
During the five weeks preccding the clection, political discussion dominated
the Press nd the progress of the compoign was reported in grent detail. Most
papers made some predictions by parties in several series; some published party
pl-tforms for the convenience of their rerders. Yomiuri and Jiji Shimpo, for
instance, carried articlos by ex-Communists in opnosition to the Communist Party.
While most newspapers rofr ined from supporting outright individual partics
or candidates, an undercurrent of sympotiy in fovor of the Domocratic Liberal
Party could be seen in the attitude of maior metropolitan papers. As the elec-
tion drew closer, the ontire press, in offorts to stimul-te public interest,
urged the people to vote, nd sought to rouse pepular political consciousness
with pertinent slogons nd woll-pointed ditorinls to voto intelligently. Polit-
ical comment-tors almost unanimously uxpressed serious concern over the possibil-
ity of wide abstention from voting. Two roacons ccenturted this concern: the
fact that the cold weather might keep the public way from the polls on election
day, and an appearance of general indifference nd ppothy which choracterized
the pre-election scone.
A Mainichi editorial, at the outset of th comprign, fter expressing relief
that the Diet had been fin-lly dissolved nd excoriating the Opposition bloc for
delaying the inevitoble breok-up, urged the vot rs to scrutinize the condidates
and the parties closely so thrt the most competent Diet possible would be returned.
Careful study of both candidates and party pl-tforms was also dvocated by Nihon
Keizai. The voturs must remember, As hi wrote, that represent-tives must be choser
competent enough to put the notion back on its feet.
A segment of the Press regarded the Jocial D mocrotic Party as the "black
sheep" of the Opposition camp for its political fickluness. Yomiuri expressed
the opinion that minor parties impeded parliamentary politics and advised the
voters to cast their brllots for the major parties only, thus climinating the
"useless" small groups. Sekai Keizai, confirming this opinion, maintained that
-14-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
unless minor parties whose existence could be justified banded together, the
threat of communism would devolop into a real menace in Japan. Dai Ichi
warned all parties not to make resh campaign promises which could nover be
harmonized with CiP's 9-point economic stabilization program.
Emergence of a herlthy two-party system of politics, shom of all antag-
onism between "ruactionory conservatives" and "class-conscious workers" was
desired by Nihon eizai's ditorial on Deccmber 25, which especially advocated
a genuine improv mont in "old-fashioned conservotism". At the same time.
Tokyo Shimbun, voicing disgust ot the partisan bickering preceding the Diet's
dissolution, called for an idocl election free from bribery characteristics of
previous voting.
Jiji Shimpo also decried the t-ctics of the Opposition bloc for staving
off dissolution of the Diet ard thus sctting a bad procedent in Diet-Cabinet
relations. The editoriel cautioned th. pcople not only to vote wiscly but to
study the records of tic Supreme Sourt judges in order to evaluate their quali-
fications properly and to dismiss thoso bolieved to be incompetent.
The Communist Party organ Akahato on December 27 plugged for a joint
Communist-Social Domocr-tic election offensive s the forerunner of "a gigantic
struggle for the xpension, stren thening, nd bolshevization of the Communist
Party." Akahata's editorial on the folloving day contained an "order" to Com-
munists to fight "rosolutely and dauntlessly" for their party, unifying the
masses and attacking the "corrupt porties."
3. Prime Minister's St-toment on the Election
On the eve of election day, Primo Minister 3hig ru Yoshid? urged all voters
throughout the nation o vote with a clear understrnding nd with freedom of
judgment. The Prime Minister's statement made on the afternoon of January 22,
declrd:
"Following the passnge of the non-confidence rosolution, the
Government dissolved the Dict, in conformity with the customary
practice under a constitutional form of governmont, to test the
confidence of the people in the Gevurnmenb. Roolizing fully the
significance of the present clection, the poople should clarify
their political foith with  cle'r undorst nding of the future of
the political situ-tion nd with complete freedom of judgment.
"Needless to sy, in view of the imnortance of the franchise,
no one should abstoin from voting. Abstertion not only merns
ab-ndonment of an important right nd duty, but it will also have
n far-re-ching effect upon the outcome of the election. It is,
therefore, strongly urged t! nt you fulfill your sovereign duties
by casting your vote. It is further urged that you do your shore
in cleaning up politic-l circles by categoric-lly rejecting the
buying of votes nd other corrupt prrctic s which pre bound to
cost dark shadows on government.
"The Constitution of Japn is the Constitution of the people.
Therefore, only the people should sipe the dostiny of tomorrow's
government by deciding on today's overnment. I, therefore,
earnestly hope that the people, re-lizin fully this importint
duty, will conduct  free, fir, nd just  lection, so that a
completoly stabilized political situation may be crontcd through
a House of Representatives which fully reflects the sovereign
will of the puople nd which has their confidence. I firmly be-
lieve that by so doing the people will rohuild Jrpan by accom-
plishing the nine-point economic stabilization program and there-
by justify world confidenco in us."
-15 -

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.97)
4. Political Platforms
The tendency towerd vague gener lizations and sweeping promises which
has char cterized post-war political party platforms, though still in evidence,
was somewhat modified. The Domocrrtic Liberals, in  bid to bring all conserv-
ative elements under their benner, advoceted a responsible single-party govern-
ment, independent with in tho scop permitted by the Allied Powers, relaxation
of ecnomic controls end a stiffer policy tow-rd labor. The democrats, less
definite, wore for an carly peace conforonce, econcmic recovery, balanced
state finances and government ccoromy. The Social Democrats also were for an
early pence treety and "racial independence", socinlization of basic industries,
pro-labor measures and pro-farmer neasures. The Communists were for "rigid ob-
servance of the Potsdrm Declaration rd realization of complete national inde-
pendence", for "dumocracy" nd ag inst fascism, ninst the enormous budget
inviting to the donger of w'r", nd "st te mar gument and people's control" of
banking and industry, for shorter hours nd higher wages to labor, and for
better prices to farmers for their crops, but lover prices to consumers. They
opposed the introduction of forcign copital nd "un or exports nt the sacrifice
of independence."
-16 -

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
COMPARATIVE PLATFORMS OF POL
JAPANESE GENERAL ELECTIONS OF JANUAR
Lundanental
Paliax
1. Advocacy of liberalism in
2. Establishment of a demo-
3. Abolition of coalition
4. Promotion of independent
DEMOCRATIC LIBERAL
its true sense)
cratic government and of
definite rules concerning
change of government;
cabinets, and the estab-
lishment of a responsible
single-party cabinet;
scope permitted by the
govermment within the
Allied Powers
1. Readjustment of the nstional
2. Aooeleration of holding of
3. Conorete application of the
4. Enforcement of administrative
of efficial disciplime;
9-point economic principles
and realisation of economic
readjustments and rationeli-
recovery;
sation to effect high admin-
istrative efficiency
the peace conferonce;
DENDCRATIC
1. Thorough infusement and
2. The abolition of conserve-
3. Establishment of a single-
4. Farly realisation of a peace
application of democracy
and adoptiom of accialism;
tive roactionary govern-
party Socialist cabinet to
succeed the current sdain-
ments;
treaty and racial indepen-
istration;
depce
SOCIALIST
1. Rigid obeervance of the
2. Safoguard of democracy and
3. Opposition to the enormous
4. State management and peoples'
Potedem Declaration and
realisatios of complete
national independence;
elimination of fasciam;
budget inviting the danger
control of financial insti-
of war
tutions and key industries
COMTNLAT
1. Reconstructien ef maté
2. Purificstiem of pelitieel,
3. Preferestial encouragument
4. Early realisatiom ef the
tives;
tusiaese ad arriañal
circles and establiavat
of an homest goveramenés
to cultural policies ed
thorough propegation and
reelisatien of demveratle
pesce comferenco and
government
participation in 
1. Replacement of bureaucratio
1. Sever viciome cirele ef
Poliar
l.'Broad abolitiom of ecencmio
2. Establisbment of the prin-
3. Readjustment and rationali-
4. No new-yen measurewin anti-
controls within the extent
permitted by the 9-peist
scomomic principless
ciple of free sconomy to
enable Japanese industries
to compete with interma-
tional level productiem
costs;
sation of enterprises ac-
cording to the 3-poist
ecencmio principles;
cipatiom of the early
1. Maintenance of sound, bal-
2. Seek importation of foreigm
3. Establishmeut of strong
4. Vimtion of a single ex-
anced State finances and
the adoption of fimancial
policies with emphasis en
capital and promotiom ef
export trade;
industrial recovery
public confidence in
mational currency and ab-
revisies attempts;
staining from curremoy
cbange rate without en-
foroing currency develua-
1. Practice of democratic State
2. Lstabliahment of a democratic 2. Lowering of prices of the
3. Revisien or abolition of
4. Comcrete readjustment of
comtrol and socialisatiom
of basio industries;
committee vested with logal
autbority to draft ecenomio
planmings
which ensures unfair profits 3. Opposition to imports and
present price-fixing policy
to monopolistic capital and
adfustmeat of prices in con-
formity with internatienal
commodity price levels)
presently inflated currency
4. Opposition to the introduc-
control with the control
by the poople:
products of monopolistic
capital, and the guarantee
of prices of farm and
marine products covering
productiom costs;
bunger exports at the macri- 4. Ratiomalisatimm ef
fice of independence;
menacing the peace and in-
tion of foreign capital
dependence of the nation
2. Probibitiem of wrestristed
3. Ratiomal reedjustmssk ef
rising prives and mges)
loan extensione by fimem-
cial institutiems, eepésial-
ly the RFB;
both central and local
tax on earmed income te
realise fair tamtiem end
tamtiom system;
creste elasticity of the
source of revemse
establishment of a single
tion
foreign exchange rate
Laber
Poliox
1. Encouragement of democratic
2. Revision of labor laws where
3. Readjustment and reconstruo-
4. Establishment of a system
of destructive, extreme-
necessary, and a 30 percent
unions and the elimination
cut in government employees
coming under the General
Accounts budget;
leftist unions;
sound besis, and the adop-
tion of the ayatem of
tion of enterprises on a
higher wages for higher
work efficiency;
of arbitration for labor
1. For simplificatiom, greater
2. Expansien ef the umemploy-
3. Establishment of a wage
4. Expansien of dispute concil-
administratiom effect a 20
percent reductiom in the
efficiency and econcmy in
budget-authorised govern-
ment employees;
ment insrance program and
establishment of a composite
social security systemj
structure based on profi-
cisncy;
iation and arbitration organs.
1. Opposition to business
2. Establishment of a ration-
4. Acquirement of political
3. Revision of NPSL and eleva-
readjustaents which pro-
tect only the interests
of capital and also to
administrative adjust-
ments which intend to re-
duce the national budget;
, sliding-scels wage
system to mest rising
commodity prices;
tion of the wage standard;
freedom for state and pub-
lic employees and school
teachers
1. Payment of wages sufficient
2. Opposition to the dismissal
3. Opposition to anti-labor
4. Full freedom of expression,
to enable a decent liveli-
hood, and the practice of
the 8-hour work day;
of workers through admin-
istrative and enterprise
readjustments;
revisions of the NPSL and
assembly, association and
other labor regulations;
the right to strike
1. Democratisation of the
2. Realisation of labor-
3. Adoption of proficiency
4. Full dietribution of
union movement and
fraction activity of
extreme leftiste;
elimination of the
capital cooperation
through partioipation
bonuses to supplement
of labor in menagement;
daily necessities to
workers and securing
standard wages;
stabilisation of com-
of real wage through
modity prices
disputes affecting public
utilit: s and besic indus-
trius
Amricultural
Policy
2. Practice of intensive agri-
1. Replace class struggle with
3. Increase of land productiv-
olass cooperation and
culture based on the prin-
ciple of proper crops most
effect village peace;
suited to the particular
ity through greater land
land;
improvement and employment
of draft animals;
2. Simplification and unifica-
1. Maintain balance between
3. Thoreugh enforoement of the
4. Exchange and redivision of
the prices of farm pro-
duots and those of other
comodities;
tien of production and
distribution of fertilizer;
2nd Farm Land Feform program;
farm land and rationalisa-
tion of farm operations
2. Enforcement of river and land
1. Thorough enforcement of a
3. Establishment of an agri-
4. Establishment of a fair
improvement at government
third farmland reform pro-
expense and practice of
state control of fertilizer 2. Prohibitiem of one-sided
and farm implements indue-
tries;
price for rice and revi-
cultural finance program;
1. Opposition to unilateral
3. Immediate omancipation of
and arbitrary government-set
quotas for crop deliveries,
and the completion of crop
delivery at cost-covering
dissolution of tenancy
agreements by landowners,
prices;
and the practice of con-
all tenant farms, fields
trol of farm land by
farmers;
1. Thorough enforcement of the
2. Enactment of laws for the
3. Elevation of fermland pro-
2nd Farmland Reform Pro-
gram and creation of model
establishment of land im-
farms;
provement associations and
industries in farming
villages;
ductivity at State expense
an emergency plan for re-
and the establishment of
forestration;
4. Modification of the present
government crop delivery
system, and adoption of
meamures to permit free
sale of produce upon com-
pletion of assigmed quota
prices of farm products
ion of the official
to conform with the rise
in the general price
level
4. Opposition to destructive
beavy taxation upon agri-
and forests;
culture
4. Establishment of an agri-
cultural rehabilitation
agricultural cooperative
program to check agricul-
bank and expansion of the
tural depressions
Cultural
Polior
1. Elimination of narrow-
minded nationalism and the
1. Cultivation of the spirit
of independence;
1. Grant budget priorities
to educational and cul-
tural appropriations and
1. Freedom of students' polit-
ical activities;
1. Establishment of a peace-
ful nation and promotion
of world friendships
2. Promotion of a true cultural
3. Amplification of national
cratic conoept making the
Emperor and the people one;
establishment of a demo-
11501
education, and the aboli-
2. Cultural promotion in back-
3. Internationalisation of
woods areas and purifica-
tion of popular arts;
Japanese culture and
beautification of national
domain,
2. Open universities to the
guarantee minimm appro-
priations;
publio and expand the
program of sobolarshipe
and assistance to de-
serving students;
2. Opposition to sheer imi-
3. Quarantee of the livelihood
4. Elimination of decadent
tation of foreign culture;
of orphans and widows,
culture
2. Establishment of a school
3. Thorough enforcement of
4. Isprove sohool teachers'
the new 6-3 compuleory
oducation system;
finance program;
4. Encouragement of bealthy
tion of academic cliques;
recreation
4. Encouregement of athletic
the cultural level of the
gases and elevation of
working people
3. Supervision over the edu-
4. Popularization of the
cation committee;
salaries and send thee
to forsigm countries fer
further study

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.93)
RATIVE PLATFORMS OF POLITICAL PARTIES
APANESE GENERAL ELECTIONS OF JANUARY 1949
SOCIALIET
COMMUNIST
PEOPLES COOPHLATIVE
1AN-7AD
Pherough infusement and
1. Rigid obeervance of the
1. Reconstructiom of matiomal
1. Tormation of a vido deme-
1. Esesutten ef amté-
application of democracy
Potadas Declaration and
ecomomy through coopera-
eratie peoples' frest and
sepitalim, ssti-fascion
and adoptiom of sccialiss;
realisation of complete
tives;
establiakmest of à revela-
and amti-oomnians
national independence;
tíanary demecratle povern-
The abolitiom of conserva-
sáve roectionary govern-
2. Safeguard of democracy and
2. Purification of political,
business and official
set tarongh pesvsfal seess)
2. Eafoveenant ef efricsal
discipline and rendjnct-
sests;
elimination of fascism;
circles end establiskment
2. State emerakip and costrel
mest of poreramentch
of an honest governmemt;
af kay finamcial mnd jades-
orgas in losel previnses,
Establishment of a single-
3. Opposition to the enormous
trial orgms)
party Socialist cabinet to
budget inviting the danger
3. Preferential encouragement
3. Sound developmmt ef agri-
Early realisation of a peace
istration;
swsseed the current admin-
tresty and racial indepen-
4. State mnagement and peoples'
of war
control of financial insti-
tutions and key industries
to cultural policies and
reslisation of democratic
thorough propagation md
government
4. Elimimeties of militarism and
3. Early reelisstion of the
pesse tresty and sutonomous
recomstructiom of the matiom;
4. Realisatiem of homest polit
cultural csoperative
waiems;
ical parties and enféree-
dence
4. Early realisation of the
fascim and safegarding of
meat of the 9-peiat sosmem
peace conference and
internatiomal pease
ie principles
participation in 
1. Sever vicious circle of
1. Rstabliskmat of a rekabili-
1. Curtailmeat of wmpredestive
sestrel and socislisatiom
control with the control
rising prices and wages;
tatiom progrem of self-help
expesditures snd grester
Mstablishment of a demooratic 2. Lowering of prices of the
ef basio industries;
by the people;
2. Prohibitiom of umrestricted
loan extensions by finam-
dependence upom feraige aid,
recovery and mot antire
eaphasis on prodastive
expenditures;
soumittes vested with lagal
products of monopolistic
cial institutioms, sepscial-2. When poesible, effect balance
2. Recomstructiem d
emtherity to draft scenomic
capital, and the guarantes
ly the RFB)
of matiomal ecomomy with
stabilisaties of iadepem-
plammingi
of prices of farm and
limited foreigm aid;
dest sccmomy)
marine products covering
3. Rational readjustmemt of
mevisiem or abalition of
production costs;
both central and local
3. Promotiom of mocialistic
3. Creation of a curramoy
whdsk emsures uafair profits 3. Opposition to imports and
present price-fixing policy
adjestaent of prices in con-
te momopolistic capital and
bunger exports at the macri- 4. Rationalisatiom of
fice of independence;
tax on earned income to
taxation system;
sccialise industries and
policies with which to
fimanoe;
crodit,
stabilisatiem fond and
establiskmest of long ters
fermdty with internatienal
realise fair taxmtiom and
4. Abolition of official comtrols 4. Creatiom of & democratic
Cemerete reedjustment of
esmmedity price levela)
4. Opposition to the introduc-
tiom of foreign capital
menacing the peace and in-
source of revezue
create elasticity of the
duction, abolition of the
Tramsectioms Tax and cres-
over gooda in abumdant pro-
control comittee to supe
viee financial orgams
presently iaflated currency
dependence of the nation
tion of a tax on bank checks
Opposition to business
readjusteents which pro-
tect cnly the interests
1. Payment of wages sufficient
to epable a decent liveli-
hood, and the practice of
1. Democratisation of the
union movement and
elimination of the
1. Oppositiom to pro-capital
rationalisation and reedjust-
mest of enterprieee;
1. Kotablishment of a mimimm
wage standard;
Establishment of a ration-
Revision of NPSL and eleva-
al, sliding-scale wage
commodity prices;
admimistrative adjust-
dmoe the national budget;
aystem to mest rising
mests which intend to re-
of capital and also to
2. Opposition to the dismissal
3. Opposition to anti-labor
the 8-hour work day;
istrative and enterprise
readjustments;
revisions of the NPSL and
other labor regulations;
of workers through admin-
2. Reslization of labor-
3. Adoption of proficiency
fraction activity of
extrome loftists;
capital cooperation
through participation
of labor in management;
bomuses to supplement
standard wages;
2. Creatiom of a minimm wage
3. Practioe of the B-hour working
4. Techmical training for youths
standard and opposition to
anti-labor revisiome of the
labor laws;
laborere;
day and the protection of
2. Adoption of a quarter-
3. Abeorption af emplopment
Estsblishment of a social
anomal aliding wage scale,
into export industries;
ingurance progras and a
unemploysemt relie pre
tiom of the wage standard;
4. Full freedom of expression,
at government expense, and
Aoquirement of political
fresdom for state and pub-
lic employees and school
assembly, aasociation and
the right to strike
4. Full distribution of
workers and securing
of real wage tirough
daily necessities to
tiem for the protoctiom of
the establiabment of facili-
women workers
toachers
stabilimation of com-
modity prices
Thorough enforcement of e
1. Oppomition to unilateral
1. Thorough snforcement of the 1. Greater democratisation of
1. A national re-study of the
third farmland refcrm pro-
and arbitrary government-act
2nd Farmland Reform Pro-
crop delivary system to give
rice price;
gram)
quotas for crop deliveries,
gram and creation of model
producers more voice in this
and the completion of crop
farmm;
matter,and full distribution
2. Establishment of a producer
Enforcement of river and land
delivery at cost-covering
of producers goods to farmers
operated aystom of crop
'improvement at government
prices;
2. Enactment of laws for the
and fisbermen;
delivery;
expense and practice of
establishment of land im-
state control of fertilizer 2. Prohibitiem of one-sided
provement associations and
2. Elimination of the influence
3. Expansion of the program of
and farm implements indua-
dissolution of tenancy
industries in farming
of old time landowners and
distribution of agricul-
tries;
agreements by landowners,
villages;
rationalisation of land dis-
tural implements in pro-
Establishmant of an agri-
trol of farm land by
and the practice of con-
3. Elevation of farmland pro-
tribution;
portion to crop delivered
cultural finance program;
farmers;
ductivity at State expense
3. Increass of loans to farmers
4. Expand agricultural public
and the establishment of
and abolition of undue taxa-
works projects progras
Establimbment of a fair
3. Immediate emancipation of
an emergency plan for re-
tion upon farmers snd fisher-
price for rics and revi-
sion of the official
all tenant farms, fields
and forests;
forestration;
men;
prices of farm products
4. Establishment of an agri-
4. Reorganisation along democratic
to conform with the rise
4. Opposition to destructive
cultural rebabilitation
lines and enlargement of agri-
in the general price
heavy taxation upon agri-
bank and expansion of the
cultural cooperative unions
lovel
culture
agricultural cooperative
program to chock agricul-
tural depressions
Grent budget priorities
1. Freedom of studenta' polit-
1. Establiabment of a peace-
1. Equalisation of opportunity
1. Thorough enforcement of th
tural appropriations and
guarantee minimum appro-
priations;
to educational and oul-
2. Opposition to sbeer imi-
ical activities;
tation of foreign culture;
2. Establishment of a school
ful nation and promotion
of world friendship;
for education and education
pense;
antirely at governmmnt ex-
2. Increase and expansion of
new 6-3 mchool system at
government expense;
Open universities to the
3. Quarantee of the livelihood
finance program;
2. Emancipation of women through
abolitiom of the feudalistic
educational facilities;
publio and expand the
of orphans and widows;
3. Thorough enforcement of
femily system, and more
3. Participation in intarna-
program of scholarships
the new 6-3 ccmpulmory
mientific daily life;
tional peace-promction
and assistance to de-
cerving studenta;
4. Elimination of decadent
culture
education syatem;
3. Creation of progressive culture;
organisation;
4. Improve school teachers'
4. Full enforcement of demo-
Suparvision over the edu-
cation coamittse;
salaries and send them
further study
to foreigm countries for
4. Promotion of cooperation with
demoeratic elemente in forsiga
coumtries
cratic education program
for women

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
F. Election Statistics
1. Summary of Results
a. Population. According to the ration consus announced on August 1.
1948, the population of Japon was s follows:
Male
39;365;452
Female
40,851;444
Total
80,216,896
b. Voting Age. The voting ge figures (20 years nd over) were given as
follows:
Male
21;046;824
Female
22,941,823
Total
43,988,647
c. Registcred Voters. According to figures of the N-tional Election
Management Commission, the registered voters in Japan on Janunry 23, 1949
totalled 42,090,916, divided s follows:
Malc
20,054,142
Fom le
22,036.774
Total
42,090,916
d. Number of Candidates. The numbor of candid-tes registered by the
various political partios, ccording to the Nation-l Election Management Com-
mission, follows:
Democratic Liberal Party
416
Democratic Party
212
Social Dumocratic Party
186
People's Cooper tive Party
63
Social Renov tion Party
30
New Liberal Party
12
Japen Farmer's Party
16
Farmer-Lobor Party
45
Communist Party
115
Independent
211
Minor Parties
58
Tot-l
1,364
e. Total Votes Cast. At the close of the polls at l8oo hours on January
23, 1949, a total of 31,168,625 votes had been cast in the genera1 election for
members of the House of Repr. sontatives. This reprosented a turn-out of 74.1
percent of the total of 42,090,916 rugistered vote s.
The highest voting participation by prefecture was 89.9 percent in Shimane
Prefecture; the lowest voting p rticip tion by prefecture occurred in Tokyo with
61.6 percent.
The highest voting participation of townships was 99.& percert in Kuranimura
in Shizuoka Prefecture. In the 1947 clection, the highest voting participation
of townships was 93.8 purcont in Iwatsunachi in Aichi Prefecture.
-18-

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
f. Comparative Percentages of Participation and Abstention.
Participation
1946
1947
1949
Male
78.6
74.9
61.6
80.7
68.0
Female
67.0
67.9
74.1
Total
72.1
Abstention
1946
1947.
1949
25.1
19.3
Male
21.4
38.4
32.0
Female
33.0
25.9
Total
27.9
32.1
g. Parties in the Diet. Pabulated according to political parties, final
election results were as follows:
Percent
Number
Percent
Vote
of Total
Elected
of Total
Party
Democratic Liberal
13;381;610
43.9
15.
264
68
56.7
14.6
Democratic
Social Democratic
4,35;504
4;129;724
13.5
9.6
49
35
10.5
7.5
Communist
People's Cooperatives
2;984;583
1,042;123
606;744
3.4
2.0
14
7
3.0
1.5
1:1
Labor-Farmer
Social Renovation
New Liberal
387;214
187;208
0.6
1.3
0.2
5
2
1
0.4
0.2
Japan Farmer
232;933
2.6
9
1.9
795,308
2.6
Minor Parties
6.6
12
2,007,328
Independents
100.0
466
100.0
30,590,179*
Totals
1.7
570,446**
31,168,625
*Valid Votes
Invalid Votes
h. Composition of the New House of Represer tatives.
(1) New Faces in the Diet. Che hundred end ninety-two of the members of
elect d for the first time; 243
the House of Reprecentatives are "new faceel"
were reelected, and 31 were members of former iets. Following is tabulation
by party:
-19-

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.96)
Party
New
Re-elected
Former
Total
Democratic Liberal
Democratic
Social Democratic
Communist
People's Cooperatives
Labor-Farmer
New Liberal
Gocial Renovation
Minor Parties
121
23
28
11
6
0
O
1
0
2
125
39
40
14
4
7
4
2
7
1
18
6
3
3
0
0
0
O
0
1
264
68
49
35
14
10
12
7
5
2
Independents
Totals
192
243
31
466
(2) Women. A total of 44 women candidates ran for seats in the House of
Representatives; of these 1? women were successful. (Fifteen women were elected
in 1947).
(a)
Women Candidates according to political narties:
5
Democratic Liberals
8
Democrats
C
Social Democrats
3
Communists
1
People's Cooperatives
1
Cocial Renovation
O
New Liberal
Japar-Farmer
O
1
Labor-Farmer
14
Independents
2
Minor Parties
+4
Total
(b) Women elected according to parties:
2
Lemocratic Libe als
5
Social Democrats
3
Communists
1.
Social Renov: tion
1
Labor-Farmer
12
Total
(3)
) Distribution of House of Representatives according to Occupation:
1.6
Government officials
16
Educators
5
Religious
14
Commerce
19
Industry & Mining
50
Agriculture & Forestry
11
Fisheries
51
Attorneys & Public Accourtants
Physicians
:9
Writers
152
Company Employees
5
Journalists
49
Miscellaneous
1.4
Without known occupation
466
Total
-20-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
(4) Distribu on of members of the House of Representatives according
to age.
we
1,
Group
Number
ng
29
1
3or
3c-49
39
59
177
den- 59
160
2i:-69
59
rnmt
10
of
in:
Total
466
it
Sadayoshi Hitotsutsu
Denocret
(Former Welfare Minister)
Tetsu Katayama
Social Democrat
(Former Prime Minister)
Kanju Kato
Social Democrat
(Former Labor Minister)
Chizue Kato
Social Democrat
(Noted Feminist Leader)
Tetsuo Kudo
Democratic Liberal
(Former State Minister)
Kazuo Nagae
Cocial Democrat
(Former ..griculture and
Forestry Linister)
Mataru Narahashi
Democrat
(Former Chief Cabinet
Secretary
Suehiro Nishio
Cocial Democrat
(Former State Linister)
Kazuo Nomizo
Cocial Democrat
(Former Agriculture and
Foresury Minister)
Giichi Takeda
Democrat
(Former Velfare Linister)
ziji Tomiyoshi
Democrat
(Former Communications
Linister)
Haruye Yamashita
Democrat
(Involved in "Izumiyama
Incident")
j. Runners p (According to Parties).
P
ty
Number
Democr
ic Liberals
28
Democr
S
26
Social
cmocrats
32
Commur
its
10
Farmer
abor
2
People
; Cooperatives
2
Japan
irmer
2
New Li
rals
3
Indepe
lents
ε
Minor
arties
4
sal
117
(Election Districts)
-21-

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
a.
Comparative Statistics
COBCPANI SOH OF ELEOTIONS POR HOUBE OF REPRESEET AT IVES IN JAPAF - APRIL 194S: APRIL 194
1949
1947
1. TYPE OF VOTIN - Single Ballot Syaten.
1. TYPE OF VOTING - Single Ballot Syatem.
2.
SIZE OF ELECTIOE DISTRICTS - Medium
2.
SIZE OF ELECTION DISTRICTS - MEDIUM
3.
MUMBER OF ELECTION DISTRICTS - Total of 117 in Japan.
3.
NUMBER OF ELEOTION DISTRICTS - Total of 117 in Jpn.
4.
REGISTERED VOTERS
MALB-20,054,142
4.
REGISTERED VOTERS
MALE - 19.569.539
PMALE-22.036,774
FDLALE-21.326,483
TOTAL - 42,090,916
TOTAL - 40,896,322
5.
TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTES CAST -
5.
TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTES CAST
MALE - 16,192,775
MALE -14,658,264
FEMALE-14.975.850
PDALE-13,139,620
TOTAL - 31,168,625
TOTAL - 27,797, 884
6.
AVERAGE ABSTENTION RATE -
6.
AVERAGE ABSTENTION RATE
MALE -19.3
MALE - 25.1
FEALE - 32.0
FEMALE ~ 38.4
TOTAL - 25.9
TOTAL - 32.1
7.
TOTAL NUMBER OF ABSTAINERS - 10,922.291
7.
TOTAL NUMBER OF ABSTAINERS - 13.098,438
8.
TOTAL NUMBER OF INVALID VOTES CAST - 578. 446
8.
TOTAL NUMBER
OF
INVALID VOTES CAST - 435,273
9.
TOTAL NUMBER OF
CANDIDATES
9.
TOTAL NUMBER
OF
CANDIDATES
PARTY
NUMBER
ELECTED
PARTY
NUMBER
ELECTED
DEMOCRATIC LIBERAL
416
264
LIBERAL
326
131
DEMOCRAT
212
68
DE4OCRAT
350
121
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
186
49
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
289
143
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
63
14
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
108
29
COMMUNIST
115
35
COMMUNIST
120
4
SCCIAL RENOVATION
30
5
MINOR PARTIES
155
25
NEW LIBERAL
12
2
INDEPENDENTS
242
13
JAPAN FARMER
16
1
TOTAL
1,590
466
FARMER - LABOR
45
7
MINOR PARTIES
58
9
INDEPENDENTS
211
12
TOTAL
1364
466
10.
TOTAL NUMBER OF CANDIDATES - FEMALE
ELECTED
10.
TOTAL NUMBER OF DANDIDATES
FEMALE
ELECTED
DEMOCRATIC LIBERAL
5
2
LIBERAL
9
DEMOCRAT
8
0
DEMOCHAT
22
3
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
9
5
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
15
9
PROPLE'S COOPERATIVE
1
0
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
4
0
COMMUNIST
3
3
COMMUNIST
8
0
SOCIAL RENOVATION
1
1
MINOR PARTIES
4
0
NEW LIBERAL
0
0
INDEPENDEITS
22
0
JAPAN FARMER
0
0
TOTAL
84
15
FARMER -LABOR
1
1
MINOR PARTIES
2
0
INDEPEDENTS
14
0
TOTAL
44
12
11.
COMPOSITION OF DIIT AS RESULT
OF JANUARY 1949 ELECTION
11.
COMPOSITICN OF DIET AS RESULT OF APRIL 1947 ELECTION
ELECTED FOR
PREVIOUS
FORMER
ELECTED FOR
PREVIOUS
FORMER
PARTY
FIRST TIME
DIET
DIETS
PARTY
FIRST TIME
DIET
DIETS
DEMOCRATIC LIBERAL
DEMOCRAT
121
23
125
39
18
6
LIBERAL
DEMOCRAT
64
56
69
66
1
3
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
6
40
3
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
73
70
3
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
0
14
0
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
7
24
COMMUNIST
28
4
3
COMMUNIST
2
2
SOCIAL RENCVATION
1
4
0
MINOR PARTIES
14
36
NEW LIBERAL
0
2
0
INDEPENDENTS
6
JAPAN FARMER
0
1
0
TOTAL
222
237
FARMER LABCR
0
7
0
MINOR PARTIES
2
6
1
INDEPENDENTS
11
1
0
TOTAL
192
243
31
Of the 16 original Japan Farmer Party candidates, only
one ran on the Japan Farmer Party ticket. All others
ran as minor party candidates (New Japan Farmers' Party
which was formed by 15 candidates).
12.
VOTES AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL VALID VOTE
12.
VOTES AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL VALID VOTE
RECEIVED BY PARTIES
RÉCEIVED BY PARTIES -
PARTY
VOTES REC'D
PERCENT
PARTY
VOTES REC'D
PERCENT
DEMOCRATIC LIBERAL
13,381,610
43.8
LIBERAL
7.295,242
26.7
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
DEMOCRAT
SOCIAL DEHOCRAT
1,042,123
4,835,504
4,129,724
15.8
13.5
3.4
DEMOCRAT
SCCIAL DEIOCRAT
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
6.857.480
1,862,753
7.168,888
25.1
26.2
6.8
LABOR FARMER
COMMUNIST
2,984,583
606.744
9.6
2.0
MINOR PARTIES
COMMUNIST
1,561,070
1,002,883
3.7
5.7
SOCIAL RENOVATION
387,214
1.3
INDEPENDENTS
1,614,295
5.8
NEW LIBERAL
187,208
.6
TOTAL
27.362,611
100.0
JAPAN FARHER
232,833
.8
MINOR PARTIES
795,308
2.6
*This figure does not include 435,273 invalid votes.
INDEPENDENTS
2,007,328
6.6
TOTAL
30.590.179
100.0
This figure does not include 578, 446 invalid votes.
22

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
ROUBE OF RXPRES EITATIVES IN JAPAR - APRIL 1946: APRIL 19471 JANUART 1949
1947
3246
1. TYPE OF VOTING - Single Ballot Syetom.
1. TIrs Or vorIm - Restricted Mural Voting System
(two to three votes permitted
each elector)
2.
SIZE OF ELECTION DISTRICTS - MEDIUM
2.
SIZE OF ELECTION DISTRIOTS - LarGO
3.
HUMBER OF ELEOTION DISTRICTS - Total of 117 1n Japan.
3.
MUMBER OF ELECTIOE DISTRICTS - Tota1 53 1n Japen.
4.
REGISTERED VOTERS
MALE - 19,569.839
4.
REGISTERED VOTERS
MALE - 16,278,926
FEIALE-21.326,483
PDALE -20.557.564
TOTAL - 40,896,322
TOTAL - 36.836,490
5.
TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTES CAST
5.
TOTAL NUMBER OF VOTES CAST
MALE - 14,658, 264
MALE - 12,778, 242
FDALE-13,139,620
FEMALE-13,780,369
TOTAL - 27,797,884
TOTAL - 26.558, 611
6.
AVERAGE ABSTENTION RATE
6.
AVERAGE ABSTENTION RATE
MALE -25.1
MALE-21.4
FEMALE -38.4
FENALE - 33.0
TOTAL - 32.1
TOTAL - 27.9
7.
TOTAL NUMBER OF ABSTAINERS - 13.098, 438
7.
TOTAL NUMBER OF ABSTAINERS - 10, 277,879
8.
TOTAL NUMBER OF
INVALID VOTES CAST - 435. 273
8.
TOTAL NUMBER OF INVALID VOTES CAST - 460, 000
9.
TOTAL NUMBER OF
CANDIDATES
9.
TOTAL NUMBER OF CANDIDATES
PARTY
NUMBER
ELECTED
PARTY
NUMBER
ELECTD
LIBERAL
326
131
LIBERAL
485
140
DEMOCRAT
350
121
PROGRESSIVE
376
94
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
289
143
SOCIAL DÉMOCRAT
331
92
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
108
29
COOPERATIVE DEMCCRAT
92
14
COMMUNIST
120
4
COMMUNI ST
143
5
MINOR PARTIES
155
25
MINOR PARTIES
570
38
INDEPENDENTS
242
13
INDEPENDENTS
773
81
TOTAL
1.590
466
TOTAL
2.770
464
(vacant)?
466
10.
TOTAL NUMBER OF OANDIDATES
FEMALE
ELECTED
10.
TOTAL NUMBER OF CANDIDATES
FEMALE
ELECTED
LIBERAL
9
3
LIBERAL
5
5
DEMOCRAT
22
3
PROGRESSIVE
7
6
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
15
9
SOCI AL DEMOCRAT
9
8
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
4
0
COOPERATIVE DEMOCRAT
2
0
COMMUNIST
8
0
COMUNIST
5
1
MINOR PARTIES
4
0
MINOR PARTIES
20
INDEPENDENTS
22
0
INDEPENDENTS
23
TOTAL
84
15
TOTAL
71
11.
COMPOSITICN OF DIET AS RESULT OF APRIL 1947
ELECTION
11.
COMPOSITICE OF DIET AS RESULT
OF APRIL 1946 ELECTION
ELECTED FOR
PREVIOUS
FORMER
ÉLECTED FOR
PREVIOUS
FORMER
PARTY
FIRST TIME
DIET
DIETS
PARTY
FIRST TIME
DIMT
DIETS
LIBERAL
56
69
1
LIPERAL
102
14
23
DEMOCRAT
64
66
3
PRCGRESSIVE
70
13
10
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
73
70
m
SOCIAL DEMOCRAT
70
7
15
PEOPLE'S COOPÉRATIVE
7
24
COOPERATIVE DEMOCRAT
13
0
1
COMMUNIST
2
2
COMMUNIST
5
0
0
MINOR PARTIES
14
36
MIÑOR PARTIES
37
0
1
INDEPENDENTS
6
INDEPENDENTS
78
4
TOTAL
222
237
TOTAL
375
36
51
12.
VOTES AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL VALID VOTÉ
12.
VOTES AND PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL VALID VOT
RECEIVED BY PARTIES
PARTY
VOTES REC'D
PERCENT
RECEIVED BY PARTIES
PARTY
VOTES REC'D
PERCENT
LIBERAL
7.295,242
26.7
LIBERAL
13,505,746
24.4
DEMOCRAT
6,857.480
25.1
PROGRESSIVE
10,350,530
18.7
SOCIAL DEHOCRAT
7,168,888
26.2
SOCIAL DEMCCRAT
9.858,408
17.8
PEOPLE'S COOPERATIVE
1,862,753
6.8
COOPERATIVE DEMOCRAT
1,799,764
3.2
COMMUNIST
1,002,883
3.7
COMMUNIST
2.135.757
3.5
MINOR PARTIES
1,561,070
5.7
MINOR PARTIES
6.473.272
11.7
INDEPENDENTS
1,614,295
5.8
INDEPEED ESTS
11,325.402
20.4
TOTAL
27.362,611
100.0
TOTAL
55.448,879
100.0
This figure does not include 435, 273 invalid votes.
*Plural vote figures above indicate actual votes
received - not "voters"
FBC Printing Plant-à 
22

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
3. Election Law Violations
A total of 1,895 cases of violation of election laws occurred in the elec-
tion of 1949. This figure compares favorably with the figures reported for the
previous two elections: 2,632 in 1946, and 2,997 in 1947 (five separate elec-
tions, national and iocal). in this connection, it is significant to point out
that charges advanced by the Press, the candidates, the parties, and the general
public concerning improper voting were insignificant; and no charges were made
fram any source concerning improper counting of votes.
According to figures submitted by the National lection Lanagement Commis-
sion on January 27, the violations included the following:
Number of
Cases
Violations
Prosecuted
Eribing
228
1
Campaigning before announcing candidacy
100
7
House to house canvassirg
414
1
Obstruction of election
87
Violations concerning voting
4
Disturbing clection - carrying weapons
35
Violation of prohibition to make use of school
children
9
Speech making and speech meeting violations
113
Violations concerning restrictions on distribution
of pamphlets, posters, and pictures
719
Unlawful contributions and expenditures
19
Violation of Imperial Ordinance No. 1 of 1947
(January 4, 1947: political activities by
purgees)
11
Others
.156
Total
1,895
A breakdown of violations according to political parties and individuals
involved is as follows:
Individuals
Party
Violating the Law
Democratic Liborals
915
Democrats
398
Social Democrats
260
People's Cooperatives
73
Communists
311
Independents
203
Minor Parties
129
Others
334
Total
2,523
-23-

=== Page 134 === (confidence 1.00)
A total of 354 cases of violations were reported for Tokyo, as follows:
Number
Violation
Of Cases
Bribing
111
Campaigning before announcing candidacy
10
House to house canvassing
155
Obstruction of election
27
Violation of restrictions on distribution
of pamphlets, posters, and pictures
35
Speech making and speech meeting violations
6
Violation of Imperial Crdinance No. 1 of
1947 (political activities by purgees)
1
Others
9
Total
354
Distributed according to political parties and individuals involved:
Individuals
Party
Violatinz the Laws
Democratic Liberals
273
Democrats
123
Social Democrats
39
People's Cooperatives
20
Communists
31
Independents
55
Minor Parties
1
Others
23
Total
569
-24-

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
PART II
REFERENDUM ON THE JUDGES OF THE SUPREME COURT
A. Introductory Statement
The new Constitution of Japan was promulgated cn November 3, 1946 and
became effective six months later on Lay 3, 1947, The general election of
members of the House of Representatives held on January 23, 1949, although
the third such election since the beginning of the Cccupation, was the first
to be held under the now Constitut ion. It was also the first such election
to be held following the appoirtment on ugust 4, 1947 of the judges of the
Cupreme Court under the new Constitution. Consecuently, under Article 79 of
the Constitution the people wore given their first opportunity to review the
appointment of the judges of the Supreme Court.
The pertinent provisions of Article 79 read as follows:
"The Supreme Court shall consist of a Chief Judge and such
number of judges as may be dotermined by law; all such judges
excepting the Chief Judge shall be appointed by the Cabinet.
"The appointment of the judges of the Supremo Court shall
be reviewed by the people at the first general election of mem-
bers of the House of Representatives following their appointment,
and shall be reviewed again at the first general election of mem-
bers of the House of Representatives after a lapse of ten (10)
years, and in the same manner thereafter.
"In cases mentioned in the foregoing paragraph, when the
majority of the voters favor the dismissal of a judre, he shall
be dismissed.
"Matters pertaining to review shall be prescribed by law."
B. Legal Provisions
The manner in which the review of the ap cintment of Supreme Court judges
is to be conducted is specified in the Law of the Pcople's Examination of
Supreme Court Judges, enacted by the Japanese National Diet on November 20, 1947.
Prior to the referendum, the law requires issuance and posting of an Offi-
cial Examination Bulletin containing the name, date of birth, and personal
history of the judge to be voted upon, the main cases in which he has partici-
pated and his expressed opinions in such cases. This infomation is designed
to afford the voters an opportunity to evaluato the cuality of each judge and
to decide whether to vote for or against retention in office. If the majority
of the voters indicate a desire to dismiss a judge from office he will be re-
moved and cannot be again appointed to the upreme Court until five years there-
after. On the other hand, a majority votc for retention will confirm an appoint-
ment.
While the Law places no r striction on a judgo prohibiting him to campaign
for himself or on behalf of his colleagues and to exercise his right to vote,
he may not engage in certain other spocified activities. Article 52 of the
-25-

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
Court Organization Law (Law No. 59 of 1947) specifies that judres, while in
office, shall not do any of th: following acts:
"(1) To become members of the Diet or of assemblies of
local public entities actively in political movoments;
"(2) To hold another snlaried position without obtaining
the permission of the Surreme Court.
"(3) To carry on ny comm rcial business or a business
which aims at pecuniary gain."
The Law of the Poople's Exomination of the Supreme Court Judges, in
Articles 44-49, provides strirgert penalties for -1l possible violations of
the law. These offenses include direct ovasions or inducing others to evade
the provisions of the law, illicit canvessing, bribery, intimidation, abduction,
neglect of duty or abuse of  uthority by officirls, publication of false matters,
and the like. Pen-lties re provided for such offenses, ranging from two to four
years' imprisonment nd finus of ¥10,000 - ¥30,c00.
C. Rofurendum Procodure
In the process of discussine the form of ballot to be used in the referendum,
the Judicial Affeirs Committee of the House of R pr sentatives realized that be-
cause of the large number of jud es to bo voted upon at one time (the number may
be as high as fifteen; in the 1949 refur ndum the number of judres reviewed was
fourteen, because there w's one vacancy on the Court), a recuircment that each
ballot have correctly vritten thereon the nome of each jud in the voter's own
handwriting would place an undue burder on the voter nd probably result in an
cxcessive number of inv-lid votes. Accorcingly, ft r considering several pro-
posals, the Committee d cided to adopt'a simple form ef pritted ballot which
would have a number of divided columns, ore for cach judge subject to review.
On this ballot the names of the jud es were printed in the lower parts of
the columns, and the voter was reouired simply to mark an "X" in the column over
the name of any judre whose dismissal he considerad d sireble, and leave blank
the column over the names of those jud es he wished to remain on the bench.
This form of voting, entirely now to the voters of Japan, places upon their
shoulders the responsibility for coterminin: the cuality of the men who admin-
ister the third braneh of government.
-26-

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.90)
BALLOT FOR
REVIEW
O F
SUPREME
COURT
JUDGES
COLUMNS
FOR MARKING
X書く欄
注意
(awaura)
(Easegawa)
Ruriaa)
(eaukazali)
(Iwaatu)
Sbhimma)
裁
( (sd))
(Mibuchi)
(rujita)
(shima)
(0amn)
(Inore)
(smits)
(0tan)
判
官
藤
島
真
河
三
井
栗
塚
岩
齋
小
霜
田
田大
村
淵
崎
松
藤
谷
山
9
上
竹
八
野。
又
忠
山
直
三
悠
勝
精
名
泊
郎
郎
保
毅
今
彦
登
茂
義
郎
輔
重
*TRANSLATION:
Place an"X"mark above the name of the Judges who you think
should be relieved; leave blank if you do not desire him to be relieved.
Writing in Romaji has been inserted for the purposes of this report.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
D. Results of the Referendum on the Judges of the Supreme Court
Contrary to fears expressed in some quarters before the election that
many voters, ignorant of the identities and records of the judges of the
Supreme Court, would fail to participate in the referendum and thus allow a
minority unduly to sway the result, the number of ballots cast in the referen-
dum totalled 31,052,733, or only l15,892 less than the total cast for members
of the House of Representatives.
The result of the referendum, summarized below, was overwhelmingly in
favor of retaining all the jud es.
Total Number of Votes Cast for Individual Judres
Name of Judge
Votes for Retention
Votes for Dismissal
1.
Sciichi Shimoyama
28,678;639
1;444;983
2.
Katsushige Otani
28,752,482
1,367,242
3.
Yusuke Saito
28,752;969
1;356,242
4.
Saburo Iwamatsu
28,802,512
1;327;465
5.
Naoyoshi Tsukasaki
28,807,528
1,318;425
6.
Shigeru Kuriyama
28,789,911
1,339;515
7.
Taichiro Hasegawa
28,798;217
1;330,531
8.
Noboru Inoue
28,832;369
1;295;515
9.
Tadahiko Mibuchi (President)
28,462,160
1,665;270
10.
Matasuke Kawamura
28,889;782
1;238;262
11.
Tsuyoshi Mano
28,884;052
1,243;661
12.
Tamot su Si:ima
28,861,062
1,258,852
13.
Hachiro Fujita
28,909,018
1;215,965
14.
Takejiro Sawada
27,917,190
1,211,957
Total Votes
403,155,891
18,613,885
(95.5% for retontion)
(4.4% for dismissal)
Total number of invalid ballots - 859, 291, (or 2.8%).
- 28 -

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
IV
5
5
3
2
(1)
4
3
0
0
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
2
0
(2)
0
0
0
1
2
2
(2)
(2)
1
2
1
16
13
8
1Y000
III
I
II
IV
3
5
3
4
3
1
2
1
3
(2)
(1)
1
1
1
0
(1)
(1)
1
0
1
0
(1)
1
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
3
0
3
1
12
11
12
6
IBARAGI
I
II
III
4
3
5
53
4
(2)
1
1
2
(2)
1
1
2
0
1
1
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
(1)
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
1
11
1i
ISHIKAWA
II
I
3
3
3
2
(2)
2
2
(1)
1
1
(1)
0
0
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
8
IWATE
I
II
4
4
3
(3)
(3)
1
1
(1)
2
1
(1)
0
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
5
10
14
KAGARA
I
3
3
(1)
1
(1)
2
(1)
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
8
II
3
3
2
(2)
1
(1)
1
1
0
0
0
0
2
10
KAOOSHINA
I
4
(3)
(1)
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
II
3
(3)
3
2
1
0
0
1
0
0
2
15
III
3
(3)
0
1
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
III
I
IX
3
4
(2)
(3)
(1)
2
1
1
(1)
2
2
(2)
(1)
1
1
1
(1)
(1)
(1)
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
2
3
3
2
(1)
24
14
3
KOCHI
I
5
(2)
2
(2)
1
0
1
2
(2)
1
0
2
3
3
KUMAMOTO
I
5
(1)
3
(2)
2
(1)
1
1
0
1
(1)
0
4
15
5
4
(3)
4
(2)
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
2
13
KTOTO
I
5
3
(1)
(1)
0
1
(2)
0
0
0
1
0
16
II
5
4
1
0
(1)
1
(1)
1
0
1
2
16
MITE
I
5
3
(1)
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
{2)
12
II
4
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
MTYAGI
I
5
4
3
(2)
1
1
0
1
0
2
3
17
II
4
2
(1)
1
2
0
0
2
11
NTYAZAXI
I
II
3
3
4
(2)
(3)
2
1
(1)
1
1
0
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
4
2
12
11
MAGO
III
I
II
3
3
4
2
3
2)
(2)
2
1
1
1
1
2
1
(1)
(1)
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
o
1
0
0
10
8
π
3
3
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
MAGASAKI
II
I
4
6
5
2
2
(1)
2
2
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
(1)
17
23
MAA
I
5
5
(2)
5
(2)
2
0
1
(2)
0
0
0
0
0
9
(1)
22
MIIGATA
II
III
I
3
5
52
31
2
2
(2)
11
2
0
0
0
1
1
(1)
0
0
1
(1)
0
0
0
2
1
0
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
12
8
7
IV
3
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
OTA
I
4
2
2)
2
(2)
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
3
(1)
11
II
3
3
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
2
11
OKATAmA
I
5
3
(2)
2
{1)
1
1
1
(1)
0
0
(1)
2
0
3
23
II
5
3
1
1
1
1
o
1
1
0
0
3
12
OSAKA
II
III
I
4
56
2
2
1
0
0
1
1
(1)
1)
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
6
3
14
27
13
IV
4
3
3
5
1
1
0
0
1
1
(1)
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
3
10
12
I
5
6
(3)
3
(2)
2
1
0
0
1
0
o
2
16
SAAMA
I
4
1
3
(1)
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
2
12
II
III
7
3
3
3
2
0
2
2
0
1
0
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
G
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
(1)
10
7
8
SHIGA
1
う
(2)
2
3
(1)
(1)
(1)
0
0
1
0
o
2
14
I
5
2
(1)
2
(2)
(2)
1
1
(2)
0
0

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
EUBAMOTO
π
5
5
4
(3)
3
4
(2)
(2)
2
1
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
(1)
0
0
2
25
13
KTOTO
II
I
3
(1)
(2)
3
(2)
4
(2)
0
0
1
1
{2}
0
(1)
0
1
0
0
16
16
II
I
5
4
{2}
32
(1)
1
(1)
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
21
2)
12
9
MIYAGI
I
5
43
22
(1)
3
(1)
1
1
0
1
0
2
17
II
4
2
1
0
0
0
0
12
MTYAZARI
I1
I
3
3
43
(2)
(3)
2
1
(1)
1
1
0
2
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
4
2
12
11
MAGANO
I
II
III
3
3
4
323
2a
(2)
2
1
(1)
1
2
(1)
1
(1)
0
0
0
a
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
10
3
(3)
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
6
NAGABAKI
1
I
5
6
{2)
2
(1)
2
1
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
2
(1)
17
23
HARA
1
5
(2)
5
(1)
2
0
1
(1)
0
0
0
9
(2)
22
MIIGATA
IV
I
III
3
4
3
3152
2
2
2
1
(1)
1
0
0
0
1
(1)
0
1
(1)
0
0
0
1
0
0
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
o
1
1
1
22
8
7
OnTA
I
4
(1)
1
1
0
0
0
0
3
(2)
12
II
3
3
1
1
1
0
0
0
2
11
OKATAMA
I
II
5
3
(2)
2
1
{1)
1
1
1
1
1
(1)
0
0
1
1
1
(1)
(1)
1
o
0
0
3
13
12
OBAKA
I
III
II
IV
4
4
3
56
2
2
1
1
1
2
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
(1)
(2)
(1)
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
24
17
13
12
10
I
6
(3)
3
(2)
2
1
1
0
0
0
2
16
SATTAMA
I
II
III
IV
3
4
(3)
1
2
0
1
2
2
(1)
1
0
1
1
(1)
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
(1)
12
10
7
8
SHIGA
I
5
4
(2)
2
3
(1)
1
(1)
(1)
0
0
0
0
2
14
SHIMAKE
I
2
(1)
2
(2)
3
(1)
1
(2)
0
0
0
0
1
10
SHIZOOKA
I
III
II
4
5
6
(3)
1
1
(1)
2
2
2
(1)
0
2
2
(1)
1
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
(1)
13
10
12
SOCHIGI
II
I
5
5
56
2
2
(1)
2
2
(1)
1
1
(1)
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
16
14
TOXUSHIMA
I
3
(3)
1
1
2
(2)
0
0
0
0
1
10
TOXYO
1
II
III
4
3
2
2
2
2
1
(1)
(1)
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
9
23
11
9
VI
vII
IV
4
5
1
4
(1)
2
2
4
(1)
1
1
(1)
1
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
(1)
0
0
1
1
3
15
11
18
18
TOTTORI
I
4
(2)
1
3
(1)
1
(2)
1
0
1
0
1
0
11
TOTANA
II
I
3
3
2
1
{1)
1
0
1
1
(2)
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
8
WAKAYANA
I
II
3
3
2
1
1
1
(1)
0
0
1
0
1
(1)
0
0
0
0
0
(1)
0
0
1
0
6
8
IANAGATA
I
II
4
{2}
3
3
{1}
2
(1)
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
14
10
YANAGOCHI
II
I
0
1
0
1
(1)
c
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
1
13
YAMANASHI
(2)
2
(2)
0
0
0
(1)
15
TORAL
117
466
416 (264)
212 (69)
186 (48)
63 (14)
115(35)
30
(5)
16
(1)
45
(7)
12
(2)
58
(9)
211 (12)
1364
Election
Districts
"Secial Democrat candidate Talaka Shogetsu (Fukuoka - lst District) was
disqualified 25 Jamuary 1949. Therefere, total mumber elected became 48.
Runner-up, Democrat MakaIMa Shigeki, replaced Tašaka as successful candidate.
FEC Printing Plant-2 49

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.88)
HOKKAIDO
ELECTION DISTRICTS
口
(4)
DOTTED LINES INDICATE ELECTION DISTRICT BOUNDARES
2
ROMAN NUMERALS INDICATE DISTRICT NUMBERS
(3)
Ⅱ
AOMORI
I
3
NUMBERS IN PARENTHESIS INDICATE THE NUMBER OF MEMBERS
(4)
TO BE ELECTED
1
(4)
AKITA
I
1
[9]
(5)
SAPPORO
HOKKAIDO
131
(4)
Ⅱ
TWATE
(5:
D
[4)
(4)
n
(3)
YAMAGATA
MIYAGI
(4)
(4)
1
(B)
(4)
NIIGATA
1
日
(4)
(3)
Ⅱ
(3)
(3)
Ⅲ
[3]
FUKUSHIMA
TOYAMA
Ⅱ
(3)
1
(3)
(5)
SHIMANE
(5)
TOTTORI
ISHIKAWA
(3)
1
(5)
1
NAGASAKI
3
SAGA
(5)
KUMAMOTO
(5)
I
(5)
日
[5)
0
OITA
YAMAGUCHI
(4)
(3)
I
(4)
(5)
Ⅱ
EHIME
(3)
(3)
日
HIROSHIMA
(3)
{4}
KOCHI
15]
13)
(5)
I
KAGAWAI
I(3)
15)
OKAYAMA
II
TOKUSHIMA
[5)
(3)
(5)
1
141
日
{4}
HYOGO
(3)
日
(3)
KOBE
010
D
OSAKA
19)
I
NARA
KYOTO
(5)
KYOO
NARA
(5)
(4)
SHIGA
MIE
15]
(5)
I
FUKUI
(5)
NAGOYA
(4)
GIFU
(3)
AICHI
(4)
日
(3)
[4)
(4)
日
SHIZUOKA
(5)
(4)
(3)
NÁGANO
YAMANASHI
(3)
(5)
KANAGAWA
(4)
I
Ⅲ(5)
SAITAMA
GUMMÁ
(27)
(3)
日
TOKYO
(3)11
(3)
I
1(4)
、(3)
I
(5)
TOCHIGI
IBARAKI
(5)
(5)
Ⅲ
CHIBA(4)
(4)
I
{3}
(5)
I
(3)
I
WAKAMMA
(3)
Ⅱ
ENLARGEMENT OF TOKYO
(3)
MIYAZAKI
HE
(3)
(4)
[4]
TOKYO
[4)
(8)
四
I
(4)
四
{5}
(4)
ENLARGEMENT OF OSAKA
OSAKA
I
(3)
14)
(3)
FBC Printtng Plant-2/48

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION COPY
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
15
OF EUROPEANAFFYIR
MESSAG
Aettor
1049 FED 25 AM 10 5o
Conepel 9099
S
Frik
tes s February 25, 1949
6:058
0L
Pos
PA
DO
viet
080 0218
894.00/2-2549
工
H
cRMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTIOHN TAKEN.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.88)
G.DIVISIC
FAIRynited States
NORTHEAST
for J
No. 126
MAR41949
Toyo, aroh 1, 1949
L.JO DPARTMENT OF STATE
REC'D
MAR 8
ACTION
Bubjeet: Puctions Vithin Dencoratio Liberel PErty
FR ENC
INFO
DCR
OENC
The Foncrable
OLI ENC
The Secrets:y of State,
POS ENC
Nashington.
①
Sir:
Witl: reference to this tission's desratoh no. 94
of February 14, 194f I have the honor to trr nemit herewith
1.
five cories cuch of un rrtiele hy r. acyI Hisatoki
disoussing the probl em of fetions wit: in the Democratie
21
Liberal rerty, es well es sn cditoricl on the some
subjoet, both froe he Niprer Simes of Pebreary 2o.
Although the Do corettr Iiberel rerty nov enjoys
a com: adins position in t Eouse of Perresont tives
as a posult or the Januery  elentton, Mr. Muroki
notes thct trere tre ultea pr psee or opinion
develovin wi thin tl.r r.
ne ra cen for bie develer-
vent of sherr factionel lifferen es Is tre e ergenee of
distinet porsonsi yo pinus vittin tir party, the clignients
of wi toh lave beon es tiy socenbuetoi sinee the perty
has come into cover.
sccordins to Ir.  roki there   four distinet sroups
within the perty. n lts-oosva e f stion. referre
to as tie oia Auarl, esntors ro nl r. ( Bsnkoku
r.  sire. un    . To  n
silerable de ree, t le feebrreeets lonr-stenll
eligh ents vith t e pre-wur seigirs farty, sna is todey
closely linked vith uxtrenely cone rv tive co ne. ie
interests. It is Jrrcely thi toup uhi! ives It.
Democratic Liberel larty its rlle ll ruectlonary"
character, the toret e prirl'a by the leotist
press in Jaran e l come me bton er tle prose abrosd.
Another importent fection centers srount the en wo
heve come to be ccllel t'e porty's poutwar lesders. cuch es
M.  K  .  .
orin to
Yr. Y roki
nglosure to
forwad wen
UNCL.JSIFI
oeived in C/R
MaY 10
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITE A NOTATION OP À

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo s Despatoh No. 126,
Maroh 1,1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
Mr. Kuroki, this group has the strongest baoking by the
rank and file of the party. A third faction is built
around the party's bureaucrat members, headed by Mr. SaTo.
Eisaku and Mr. SUDo Hideo, while a fourth major faction
is composed of former Democratio Party members who entered
the Democratic Liberal Party in 1947 with Mr. SHIDEHARA
Kijuro.
In the formation of his third cabinet as a result
of the January 23 election, Prime Minister YOSHIDA Shigeru
has, in this account, turned mainly to the Postwar Leader
faction for advice and. support. The Old Guard and the
Bureaucrat factions are said to have strongly opposed this
liberalizing trend and to have plainly indicated their
dissatisfaction. The dominant position the party has
secured under Mr. Yoshida's leadership has of crrse
enabled the Prime inister to effect such internal
realignments of power despite Old Guard and Bureaucrat
objections. Mevertheless, in Ir. Yuroki's view, which is
shared by many other political coruentators, this action
has seriously accentuated intra-party rifts, and reveals
only too clearly that the preponderant Democratic Liberal
Party is far from being a monolithic structure.
In organizing his third cabinet, Lr. Yoshida is also
bringing within the fold of his party the Inukai fuction
of the Democratic Party, two members of which entered
his cabinet. In Mr. Kuroki's view, the Inukai faction
will in turn become another grouping within the Democratic
Liberal Party, distinct, however, from the ex-Democratic
Shidehara faction.
That these complicated factional alignnents present
a problem from the stendpoint of the smooth operation of
a Democratic Liberal cabinet is tersely discussed in the
Nippon Times editorial. The third Yoshida Cabinet is held
to be another coalition govern.ent, renresentins a merger
of the Democratic Liber Is and the Inukai faction of the
Democrats. In a sense, however, the new govern ent is
also a coalition of vcrious intra-party elements each of
which is struggling for power and for the adoption of its
views and policies.
Finally, as noted in this Mission's despetch no. 94
of February 14, the Nippon Times editorial notes that, even
if there were no factional dis: ension within the Denocratic
Liberal Party, its greatly expanded size would alone
require far more attention and skill on the part of the
leaders than was necessary when party mebership was much
smaller.
Respectfully yours,
W.  Slale
W. J. Sebald
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 126,
Maroh 1, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
Enclosures:
1.
Article from Nippon Times,
February 20, entitled
"The Yoshida Cabinet"
(five copies)
2。
Article from Nippon Times,
February 20, entitled
"Cleavages Among the Democratic-
Liberals" (five copies)
350.1
CNSpinks:mhp
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES: February 20. 1949
The Yoshida Cabinet
Dissatisfaction Within Democratic-Liberal
Party May Upset Stability of Gov't
By HISATOKI KUROKI
Supported by more than
self showed reluctance in ac-
300 members in the House of
cepting the post since he be-
Representatives, the Yoshida
lieved it. might be a move to
Cabinet is outwardly in a posi-
make him a figurehead. The
tion to remain in office for the
Prime Minister had to give
coming four years.
him acequate reassurance.
But there are signs now,
For the post of Vice-Spea-
only a few, days after its for-
ker, the party selected Kiku-
mation, that all is not well
ichiro Yamaguchi, now State
with the new Cabinet. These
Minister, but Mr. Yoshida
indications stem from the ap-
vetoed the idea because Mr.
parent dissatisfaction and
Yamaguchi was considered a
widening gap within the De-
malcontent who led a move-
mocratic-Liberal Party, the
ment for the reform of tlie
Yoshida Cabinet's principal
ρarty against the "Old Guard."
supporter.
Mr. Shidehara also did not
Two factors contributing to
approve of Mr. Yamaguchi.
this discontent are that of per-
"Postwar Leader" Hirokawa
sonnel and that of the coali-
then stepped in to suggest a
tion with the Democratic
suitable post for Mr. Yama-
Pariy.
guchi in order to keep Mr.
There are three distinct
Shidehara in the Speaker's
groups within the Democratic-
post where he could not in.
Liberal Party: one the "Old
Guard" led by Banboku Ono,
fluence party policies.
"Old Guard" Ono repeated-
Etsujiro Uehara, and Jiro
ly warned Mr. Yoshida against
Hoshijima; another the "post-
the counsels of the "Postwar
war leaders" headed by Kozen
Leaders," and balked at the
Hirokawa and Saeki Ozawa;
prospects of being given posts
and the third the "Bureau-
as chairmen of Diet standing
crats" under Eisaku Sato and
committees. The "Old Guard"
Hideo Sudo. The former De-
felt slighted despite Mr. Yoshi-
mocrats under Kijuro Shide-
ca's reassurances that the com-
hara who bolted to join the
mittee chairmanships are vital
Democratic-Liberals might be
posts, perhaps more impor-
considered yet a fourth group.
tant than Cabinet portfolios.
The post-election activities
The "Bureaucrat" group was
of deciding the Diet leader-
not included in the Cabinet
ship and organizing a Cabinet
and is expressing dissatisfac-
were carried on by Prime
tion with Mr. Yoshida's leader-
Minister Shigeru Yoshida with
ship.
the advice of the postwar lead-
On the coalition issue, the
ers, who incidentally are back-
majority of the Democratic-
ed by the bulk of the Demo-
Liberals favored a single-party
cratic-Liberal Party.
cabinet. Their reaction' to the
The outward calm of the
probable inclusion of Demo-
victorious Democratic-Liberal
cratic leader Ken Inukai and
front was first ruffled by the
his group into the Democratic-
question of selecting a Lower
Liberal Party cannot be cor-
House Speaker and Vice-
dial.
It may mean the formation
Speaker.
of another group besides the
"Old Guard" Jiro Hoshi-
four or five already in exis-
jima was believed in line for
tence within the Democratic-
the House Speaker, but when
Liberal. Party.
reports went around that ex-
The secds of discontent have

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES:
February 20, 1949
The Yoshida Cabinet
Dissatisfaction Within Democratic-Liberal
Party May Upset Stability of Gov't
By HISATOKI KUROKI
Supported by more than
self showed reluctance in ac-
300 members in the House of
cepting the post since he be-
Representatives, the Yoshida
lieved it. might be a move to
Cabinet is outwardly in a posi-
make him a figurehead. The
tion to remain in office for the
Prime Minister had to give
coming four years.
him a equate reassurance.
But there are signs now,
For the post of Vice-Spea-
only a few days after its for-
ker, the party selected Kiku-
mation, that all is not well
ichiro Yamaguchi, now State
with the new Cabinet. These
Minister, but Mr. Yoshida
indications stem from the ap-
vetoed the idea because Mr.
parent dissatisfaction and
Yamaguchi was considered a
widening gap within the De-
malcontent who led a move-
mocratic-Liberal Party, the
ment for the reform of the
Yoshida Cabinet's principal
party against the "Old Guard."
supporter.
Mr. Shidehara also did not
Two factors contributing to
approve of Mr. Yamaguchi.
this discontent are that of per-
"Postwar Leader" Hirokawa
sonnel and that of the coali-
tion with the Democratic
then stepped in to suggest a
suitable post for Mr. Yama-
Pariy.
There are three distinct
guchi in order to keep Mr.
Shidehara in the Speaker's
groups within the Democratic-
Liberal Party: one the "Old
post where he could not in-
Guard" led by Banboku Ono,
fluence party policies.
Etsujiro Uehara, and Jiro
"Old Guard" Ono repeated-
Hoshijima; another the "post-
ly warned Mr. Yoshida against
war leaders" headed by Kozen
the counsels of the "Postwar
Hirokawa and Saeki Ozawa;
Leaders," and balked at the
prospects of being given posts
and the third the "Bureau-
as chairmen of Diet standing
crats" under Eisaku Sato and
committees. The "Old Guard"
Hideo Sudo. The former De-
felt slighted despite Mr. Yoshi-
mocrats under Kijuro Shide-
ca's reassurances that the com-
hara who bolted to join the
mittee chairmanships are vital
Democratic-Liberals might be
posts, perhaps more impor-
considered yet a fourth group.
tant than Cabinet portfolios.
The post-election activities
The "Bureaucrat" group was
of deciding the Diet leader-
not included in the Cabinet
ship and organizing a Cabinet
and is expressing dissatisfac-
were carried on by Prime
tion with Mr. Yoshida's leader-
Minister Shigeru Yoshida with
ship..
the advice of the postwar lead-
On the coalition issue, the
ers, who incidentally are back-
majority of the Democratic-
ed by the bulk of the Demo-
Liberals favored a single-party
cratic-Liberal Party.
cabinet. Their reaction to the
The outward calm of the
probable inclusion of Demo-
victorious Democratic-Liberal
cratic leader Ken Inukai and
front was first ruffied by the
his group into the Democratic-
question of selecting a Lower
Liberal Party cannot be cor-
House Speaker and Vice-
dial.
Speaker.
It may mean the formation
"Old Guard" Jiro Hoshi-
of another group besides the
four or five already in exis-
jima was believed in line for
tence within the Democratic-
the House Speaker, but when
Liberal. Party.
reports went around that ex.
The secds of discontent have
Democrat Shidehara would get
been sown. What fruits they
the post, most Representatives
will bring forth remains to be
scoffed. Mr. Shidehara hira-
seen.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No: 126
dated March 1, 1949 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Factions
Within Demooratic Liberal Party".
NIPPON TIES: Februar 20. 1949
Cleavages Among the
own party over the formation
of the coalition Government
sulted sufficiently. and that
thrat they were not even con-
Democratic-Liberals
than even Mr. Yoshida, Mr.
Mr. Yoshida has hand-picked
Inukai is finding h's party
compliant personal followers
Despite its outward ap-
splitting. completely in .two.
who will unquestioningly
pearance of overwhelming
1'n will have no alternative
The rump that remains with
carry cut his bidding.
strength, the Democraty-Lib.
Mr. Yoshida is undoubted-
cral Party is not without soné
!at to become. absorbed into
ly hoping that this dissatisfac-
serious internal fissures. Be-
cause of Prime Minister Yoshi-
da's dominant influence in the
Democratic-LiberaI Party.
be welcomed by the Shidehara
But this element will not
tion will be allayed by the ap-
pointment of the yeteran party
leaders to the chairmanships
group which seceded from the
of important standing com-
"one-man party," but it will
tax even his admittedly great
party, it is often called a
join with the Democratic-Lib.
Democratic Party earlier to
mittees of the Diet. He is
pushing this idea by saying
powers to keep his followers
from splitting up into quar-
reling factions.
erals. These two unfriendly
Party will constitute a source
groups of former' Democrats
within the Democratic-Liberal
that, in the new parliamen-
tary regime of Diet supremacy
in the Government, chairman-
ships of key Diet committees
The immediate cause for
of dissension.
are more important than Cabi-
the most obvious dissatisfàc-
Altogether as:de from the
net'posts. 'If this should be-
tion within the party arises
carrying over into the Demo-
come true in practice, it would
from the coalition character
cratic-Liberal Party of the
be a real gain for parliamen-
of the new Cabinet. Having
feuds which used to exist in
tary government in Japan, but
secured a clear majority in the
the Democratic Party, 'the old-
Japanese political tradition
Diet by a more than comfort-
time Democratic-Liberals are
does not particularly help Mr.
able margin, the Democratic-
also likely to resent being
Yoshida put this idea across.
Liberals almost to a man a
forced to share political
It still remains to be seen if
sumed that the new Govern
patronage with newcomers.
the party elders will be molli-
ment would be a one-party
Mr. Inukai is therefore likely
fied by this move.
Government.
to meet with a cool reception
Prime Minister Yoshida's in-
from others in the Democra-
Even if there were no dis-
sistence on forming what ap-
tic-Liberal Party. besides the
sensions within the Democra-
pears to be a needless coalition
Shidehara group.
tic-Liberal Party, the task of
with the Democrats, in disre-
There is considerable d's-
keeping its greatly expanded
membership running smooth-
gard of the opposition of the
satisfaction, also, among the
ly in harness would require
rank and file of both parties,
older leaders of the Demccra-
far more managing and shep-
has perplexed and irritated
tic-Liberal Party over Prime
herding than in the days when
most of the party leaders. If
I.finister Yoshida's selection of
the party membership was
they do not dare reproach Mr.
his Cabinet ministers. Al-
Yoshida directly, they are at
though the new Cabinet rep-
much smaller. But with all
the strains and cleavages
Icast pulling no punches in at-
resents some improvement in
tacking Kozen Hirokawa, the
quality over the previous stop-
which have now become ap-
parent, Mr. Yoshida, even
party's secretary-general, who
gap Cabinet, the change is not
with his great power and
is accused of having acted as
too apparent. The veteran
Mr. Yoshida's stooge. The ill-
party leaders have been con-
hands full in riding herd
prestige, is going to have his.
feeling between Mr. Hiro-
spicuously passed over in the
kawa's immediate circle and
distribution of Cabinet pests.
over his charges.
their critics forms one cleav-
There is undoubtedly a good
The nation can only hope
age within the pariy.
political reason for passing
that the situation within the
The situation will be fur-
over the familiar old figures
Democratic-Liberal Party will
ther complicated when Ken
whose reputations. may be
not jeopardize the stability of
Inukai, president of the De-
linked with some unsavory
the Government.
mocratic Party, comes into the
chapters in the party's his.
Democratic-Liberal Party, as
tory and for pushing forward
he is expected to do eventual-
new men who have no con-
luMeetindithdarmane

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatoh
dated March 1, 1949 from the
States Political Adviser for
Tokyo, on the subject, "Factions
Within Demooratic Liberal Party
NIPPON TIMES: February 20. 1949
own party over the formation
Cleavages Among the
that they were not even con-
of the coalition Government
sulted sufficiently and that
Democratic-Liberals
than even. Mr. Yoshida, Mr.
Mr. Yoshida has hand-picked
Inukai is finding h's party
compliant personal followers
Despite its outward ap-
splitting. completely in two.
who will unquestioningly
pearance of overwhelming
The rump that remains with
carry out his bidding.
I'n will have no alternative
strength, the Democratic-Lib.
Mr. Yoshida is undoubted-
cral Party is not without somé
Iat to become. absorbed into
ly hoping that this dissatisfac-
serious internal fissures. Be-
.Democratic-Liberaf Party.
tion will be allayed by the ap-
cause of Primé Minister Yoshi-
But this element will not
pointment of the veteran party
be welcomed by the Shidehara
da's dominant influence in the
leaders to the chairmanships
party, it is often called a
group which seceded from the
of important standing com-
Democratic Party earlier to
"one-man party," but it will
join with the Democratic-Lib-
mittees of the Diet. He is
tax even his admittedly great
pushing this idea by saying
erals. These two unfriendly
powers to keep his followers
that, in the new parliamen-
from splitting up into quar-
groups of former' Democrats
tary regime of Diet supremacy
within the Democratic-Liberal
reling factions.
in the Government, chairman-
Party will constitute a source
The immediate cause for
of dissension.
ships of key Diet committees
the most obvious dissatisfàc-
Altogether aside from the
are more important than Cabi-
of the new Cabinet. Having
tion within the party arises
from the coalition character
secured a clear majority in the
the Democratic Party, 'the old-
carrying over into the Demo-
cratic-Liberal Party of the
feuds which used to exist in
net'posts. 'If this should bè-
come true in practice, it would
be a real gain for parliamen-
tary government in Japan, but
Diet by a more than comfort-
able margin, the Democratic-
also likely to resent being
time Democratic-Liberals are
Japanese political tradition
does not particularly help Mr.
Liberals almost to a man a
forced to share political
Yoshida put this idea across.
It still remains to be seen if
sumed that the new Govern
ment would be a one-party
Mr. Inukai is therefore likely
patronage with newcomers.
the party elders will be molli-
fied by this move.
Government.
to meet with a cool reception
Prime Minister Yoshida's in-
from óthers in the Democra-
Even if there were no dis-
sistence on forming what ap-
tic-Liberal Party. besides the
sensions within the Democra-
pears to be a needless coalition
Shidehara group.
tic-Liberal Party, the task of
with the Democrats, in disre-
There is considerable d's-
keeping its greatly expanded
gard of the opposition of the
satisfaction, also, among the
membership running smooth-
rank and file of both parties,
older leaders of the Demccra.
ly in harness would require
has perplexed and irritated
tic-Liberal Party over Prime
far more managing and shep-
most of the party leaders. If
.Iinister Yoshida's selection of
herding than in the days when
they do hot dare reproach Mr.
his Cabinet ministers. Al-
the party membership was
Yoshida directly, they are at
though the new Cabinet rep-
much smaller. But with all
least pulling no punches in at-
resents some improvement in
the strains and cleavages
tacking Kozen Hirokawa, the
quality over the previous stop-
which have now become ap-
party's secretary-general, who
gap Cabinet, the change is not
parent, Mr. Yoshida, even
is accused of having acted as
too apparent. The veteran
with his great power and
Mr. Yoshida's stooge. The ill-
party leaders have been con-
prestige, is going to have his
feeling between Mr. Hiro-
spicuously passed over in the
hands full in riding herd
kawa's immediate circle and
distribution of Cabinet pcsts.
over his charges.
their critics forms one cleav-
There is undoubtedly a good
The nation can only hope
age within the party.
political reason for passing
that the situation within the
The situation will be fur-
over the familiar old figures
Democratic-Liberal Party will
ther complicated when Ken
whose reputations. may be
not jeopardize the stability of
Inukai, president of the De-
linked with some unsavory
the Government.
mocratic Party, comes into the
chapters in the party's his.
Democratie-Liberal Party, as
tory and for pushing forward
he is expected to do eventual-
new men who have no con-
ly. Meeting with far more
nections with the past. But
violent opposition from his
the veteran pariy leaders feel

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
: NA - Mr. B1hop
TO
DATE: March 10, 19
DC
FROM : NA - Mr. GreenQ
NC
bile
SUBJECT: Tokyo's 94 of February 14, 1949
This rather lengthy despatch from USPOLAD on the January
elections gives a good deal of detail, but beare out generally
conclusions reached by this Division on the election. Some of
1ts main points are as followe:
(1) Post-Election Grouping of Political Parties. Public
sentiment, strongly opposed to the establishment of another
coalition government, strongly prefers that Yoshida's Party
run the Government single-handed. While the Socialist Party
has refused to cooperate with the Communists, it is already
apparent that, in addition to the left-wing Socialists who
voted Communist in the election, more Socialists, especially
at the prefectural and local level, will probably join the JCP.
On most issues the 7 Labor-Farmer members of the House will
work on close terms with the Communists, although a merger
is not anticipated.
894
(2) Reaeons for Political Realignment and Success of
Democratic Liberals. Yoshida's Party does not represent the
ultra-reactionary ideology that is often attributed to it, but O
stands for conservatism which ie euited to traditional JapaneseO
thinking. Mr. Yoshida garnered many votes on the basis of
his independent, forceful attitude, his patriotism (referred
3
to as nationaliem by his opponents) and his determination to
resist pressure from GHQ. The most important cause of the
1
defeat of the Democratic and Social Democratic parties was
their failure to stand in the eyes of the electorate for
4
definite policies and their reputations of subservience to GHQ.O
It is unfortunately true that these two parties were in power
during periods in which changing Headquarters' policies, par-
ticularly in the field of labor relations, tended to under-
mine platform positions previously taken by those parties.
(3) Japanese Communist Party Success. The entirely
unexpected succese of the JCp may be mainly explained by its
compact, disciplined organization, the vigor in its candidates,
the definitiveness of 1ts platform and the tireless energy of
894.
its workers. Developmente on the Asiatic mainland contributed
in no small way to the success of that party.
FILED
(4)
0
1949
140517
W
S
H

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(4) Conduct of the Election. Based on the personal obser
vations of USPoLAD officere, the conduct of the eleotion was
credit to the capabilities of the Japanese for operating the
mechanical processes of democratic government.
(5) Program Facing Democratic Liberals. USPOLAD believes
that Yoshida's Party faces a difficult, stormy future. It must
assume responsibility for the execution of the stabilization
program, full enforcement of which will bring hardship to the
Japanese and, in political terms, unpopularity for the sponsoring
regime. The Democratic Liberal Party, now so large that it runs
the danger of becoming unwieldy, 1s already showing signs of
serious factionalism. Defectione from the Party would be in
the tradition of Japanese politics. "But meanwhile the existence
of a single party majority and the consequent demand for the
development of a large, integrated political alignment in
opposition, should continue to create a beneficial influence
on the future course of Japanese politics in the direction of
the two party eystem."
Comment: Except for the foregoing quoted sentence
which appears too optimistic, no exception is taken to
Mr. Spinks' conclusions.
FE should see.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTIOL
MAS J. LANE
is assignacdARY
MNDs0
Congress of the United States
aET
Douse of Representatibes
Washington, D. C.
G DIVISIONOF
March 10, 1949 NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
MAX151949
tm
APR 18 1949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF SECURITY
Honorable Deen Acheson
Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
894.00/3-1049
Dear Mr. Secretary:
XR
I an enc sing the letter that I have received
from Mrs. Felix Carr, lio Andover Street, Peabody, Massachusetts,
894.00B
rel&tive to her desire to secure information concerning the
situation in Japan in behalf of the Provincal of the Notre Dame
Sisters at Waltham.
I an confident that you will find the attached letter
to be self-explanatory, and I shi ll be grateful if you will kindly
furnish me with an official pron uncement in response to this
inquiry.
STATE
Sincerely yours,
5
CS/J
DF
Enclosure
894.00
APR 25
FILED
949
3-1049
29581

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Copy
HARDER HALL on Rex Beach Lake
Sebring. Florida
Maroh 2, 1949
House of Representatives
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Bates,
I would like to ask you if in your opinion, the political
situation in Japan as regards the activities of the Com-
munists operating there, will evenuate in oivil war, over-
throw of the present regime or any eventuality affecting
Americans.
The Provincal of the Notre Dame Sistere at Waltham
is deeply concerned about conditions in Japan at the
moment. She has asked to make inquiries. I felt that
you would be as well informed as anyone about this situm-
tion. Sr. Provincal would recall the Sisters from their
sohool at Okayama whioh they founded twenty-five years
ago. Incidentally they have begun the building of a new
school in the city of Hiroshima within the past year.
The Provinoal wants to be sure that the Sisters on
the Japan Mission will not have to repeat their former
experiences in internment camps in the event of another
war; she told me.
Have you any information you can give us. We will
be deoply grateful.
Yours sincerely,
8/ Lena Carr
(Mrs. Felix Carr
110 Andover St.
Peabody, Mass.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.88)
mwnists will, sertainly during the cesmpetiom of
8
8
beais of predlstakle develepmeats in Japan
00/3-1049
fren their seheel at Okayama.
You will realize, ef sourse, that mo cme can pre-
diet with certainty that vielemee will mot hreak oat in
any part of the world today. However, I feel sure that
fer the moment at least we may be sonfidont that the
Sisters do met fase any prospest of having te ropeat
their past experienee of internment. I an also confident
that shsmld semditions serieusly deterierate, whiok we
de mot antieipate, there would be adequate warming given
by our anthorities in Japan.
Sincerely yours,
DOR NE Unit
Ernest A. Gross
Assistant Secretary
yow
Enclosupel
899.
 stated.
1+
CSLA
The Honorable
MAR 17 1949
Skx
Thomms J. Lane,
ana
ruglin
House ef Representatives.
Heem
FE:NA:MGreen:clh
3/16/49
VFE

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
G DIVISION OF
No. 146
March 12, 1949
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
MAR801949
no action regure
mug
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Reasons for Social Democratic Party's Defeat
REC'D
in January Election.
MAR 28
894.00/3-1249
AC TION
Onorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir:
OLI
894.00/2.2149
EUR/X
With reference to this Mission's despatches
nos. 94 of February 14 and 114 of February 21, 1949
concerning the Japanese general election of January 23,
1/
I have the honor to transmit to the Department a copy
of a statement prepared by Mrs. KATo Shizue giving her
views as to the reasons for the defeat suffered by the
Social Democratic Party. Both Mrs. Kato and her husband,
Mr. KATo Kanju, are well known members of the Social
Democratic Party and served in the Diet until their
defeat in the January election. The statement prepared
by Mrs. Kato was intended for circulation among certain
offices in General Headquarters. While many of the points
discussed in her statement are correct, it nevertheless
reflects considerable bias, if not bitterness, undoubtedly
attributable to her party's and her own personal defeat
in the election.
Mrs. Kato maintains that the Social Democratic
Party failed to explain adequately its principles and
program to the people, She attributes this in part to
the lack of real political understanding among many arty
members and to the heterogeneous character of the party
itself, which embraces a wide range of political senti-
ment among the various and at times conflicting elements
composing the party. In contrast, she points to the
boss-like control and tighter discipline of the conserva-
tive parties and to the totalitarian dictatorship enforced
by the Japan Communist Party.
Confidential Fi
Another cause of the Social Democratic defeat,
according to Mrs. Kato, was the impression the party
gave that it had failed to make good its promises to the
people, Mrs. Kato notes with some feeling that the
FILED
DNR
15
CONFIDENTIAL
1919
ile
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITA A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.89)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Social Democratic Party endeavored to carry out the
policies and programs sponsored by General Headquartere,
which on certain points were at variance with the party
own position. She feels, therefore, that the Japanbse
public expected too much from the Social Demooratia Party
while it was in power as a coalition government. Beoause
of the coalition claracter of its tenure of office and the
fact that it attempted to meet the requirements of General
Headquarters, the party was compelled to retreat from
many of its earlier announced policies. The Social Demo-
cratic Party, therefore, was caucht between popular
dissatisfaction and its responsibilities toward General
lieadquarters There is tie sugrestion in Mrs Kato's
stateent that General Headguaruers sold out the .cial
Democratic Party, that while the Social Democrats erueavored
to carry out the Suprene Cor ander's program, General Head-
guarters, in return, should have given the party some kind
of support or encourage ent Feadquarters demand for
revision of tie Nationel Publie Jervice Law is the cardinal
example in Mrs Kato's ini
he writes:
"The revision  vivil service law
initiated by Generai Tea paurters mede the
situation (for tlc Social Jemoeratic Party)
worse. If the Part, hai consi dered the selfish
interest of the Part first, it should huve left
the Government iim.ediately after the appearance
of ScAP's letter on this subject If it hed
acted so smartly, it could not have iven exeuse
for Communists to attac the Jocialists But the
staff of the farty aint: ined e loyal nttitude
to the Occupation uthority and renained in office"
In contrast to tlc Jocial e ocrutic Farty's urewarded
loyalty to the Occupetion,  rs Tuto polnte te the
politically more successful taties of the Demoeratie
Liberal Party. Priae inister Y TDa ShIperu, she e arees,
"received nationwide ap lause beee me of : ls orro ant
attitude tovards the Occu atlon Porce."
Bhe fuele thte
a cooperative attttude tari e Ceeaptn
unpopularmon
to sup ort etlon or o "
fact of uncondltlon 
krn. Kuto obvl:b
hor udne
Purty's vlotoryero! 
Minietervo du h
Oocupntlo or th
the Supreo Commmler 
to puraon 1ndodt n wi.in t
enerl ver
The Prime ininter hnt
authority or the ouer fon
direotives and peltetees or  nel oel unrters
hen
CONFIDANTI L

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL
has leai  the view that matters of detailed implement
tion shoul. t: left to the Japanese Government. On a
number of occasions Mr. Yoshida has indicated his dis-
satisfaction with detailed interference in the operation of
governnent by officers in the various staff sections of
Headquarters, some of whom have attempted to assert them-
selves in a manner hardly calculated to inspire cooperation.
Mor is there any doubt that Mr. Yoshida has resented the
brusque intrusions of subordinate Headquarters personnel
in direct dealings with himself and men of Cabinet level.
The Prime Minister's resistance to this type of relation-
ship with General Headquarters has unquestionably been
viewed with favor by many Japanese business leaders and
others who have had similer experiences
In explaining the communist success in the January
election, Mrs. Kato gives a more accurate interpretation.
Particularly significant is her discussion of communist
tactios in making direct contact with the voters. Accord-
ing to Irs. Kato, this was in sharp contrast with the
campaicn methods of her perty
In conclusion, Irs Hato raises the important
question of the future of the middling group between the
extreme left and the extreme right It was, of course.
largely due to the failure of this grouping that the
Frs Kato
communists made their remarkable guins
believes that the electorate must become more politicelly
conscious if this middle crouping is to be rebuilt
The socialist failure in the January election
cannot be explained, however, by rs Kate's view thut so
any people aprarently voted without thinking. The large
communist  in was not the result of any uncerteinty or
Unlike the socialists.
vaguenesn on the part of the voters
the Japan Jommunist Party offered an aggressive, positive
program which wede a direct poeal to many Japanese w o
might otherwise have votel for socialist candidstes
That there was a considere ble response to tiis appeal
is indicative of the demree to whiot the people ere
politicslly cors eious anl ou ht, thre gh their b llots,
to sive positive enpresslon so their t oegits
While Wrs. Eeto's explanation of the Social Demoerstie
the statemeat
Party's defeat has obvious shorteomi
she has prepare is the work of a prominent and uble
leader ef a political party which, if revitalized can
play an important part in reducins the dangerous tension
which is Likely to develop ir Japanese polities becomes
Unfortunately, the
further polarized into two extreies
Social Democratic Farty is still stunned and demcralized
from its severe  efeat, and, as  rs Kato's staterent so
plainly
COMFLDENTLAL

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
plainly indicates, the thinking of the party's leaderab
has not yet recovered sufficient balance. There ls stili
a certain naiveté in Mrs. Kato's arguments whioh 1s
probebly typical of the party's general approach to its
problems. Her husbend, Kato Kanju, expressed the same
naiveté in conversetion with an orficer of this Mission
in attempting to explain Prime Minister Yoshida's popularity
among the people merely by the generel belief that
Mr. Yoshida dares to stand with his hends in his pockets
when he has an interview with General MacArthur.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
"The Defeat of the Sociel Democratic Party
and its Reestsblishment" by Kato 3hizue.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350.1
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Despatoh No. 146
dated Maroh 12, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeot
"Reasons for Social Democratic Party
Defeat in January Election".
(COPY)
THE DEFEAT OF THE SOCIAL DEMO CRATIC PARTY AND
ITS REESTABLISIMENT
by Shizue I. Kato
1. The first and most important reason fr:
defeat was the lack of explanation about the parly
principles and programme. "Social Democracy" is its
principle, atvocating socialistic economy. It has
never been fully explained to the public and even many
perty members cannot explain the real meaning of it.
The leaders of the party  ust be aware of great responsi-
bility for the lack of educational effort which resulted
in such a miserable defeat.
2. Besides the lac: of clearness in mottoes, the
party organization is quite loose, being a conglomeration
of various kinds of people most of whom ere only interested
in election to various public orfices for themselves.
Lany of them belonged to verious mass parties which
existed before the War. These different parties realized
it unwise to be split. So when a chance came after the
War, they decided to unite under the flag of the Japan
Socialist Party. They are, however, divided into factions
according to their previoun arfili: tlonn They have never
bec.. in pod harmony, and finally rightist end leftist
factions left the party, but fictional struggles still
exist.
This unfortunate situation became vory tense fron.
time to time as they had to dooide to go right or left
facing some ∞ norote probloms. Aocording to the democratic
debate, party members argue agelnet each other without
concecling the aifferences of opinions. But in conservative
parties, party mombers  ako groups under amell numbere of
politioal bouses, while the omuniet Party ls undor tho
absolute diotatoruhip of ita leudere. Indeed the uncontrolled
situution of the Soolalist Party is having very poor effects.
As to the count. pureu for this situstion, tho principle
and problens muat ne made alenr and the party muet invite
the intelleotual publio as well as organized luborers.
By getting thege freal. elements in great numbers the
atruggle among various feotions will be reduoed and the
party will grow to a well orgunized und controlled political
foroe
3. Thirdly, the party guve the impresaion aa i it
betrayed the programme it promised to publio. This i
to be asoribed to the unolearness of the prooedure of its
program.e.
It is

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyos
Despatch No. 146,
March 12, 1949.
-2-
It is true that the party is advocating a socialistic
economy, but its realization on a wide scele belongs to
the future. The party's immediate economic programme for
rehabilitation coincides with the planned economy indicated
by Generel Headquarters. Moreover, the party has enthus-
iastically supported the emancipation of farmers by land
reform plans end encouraged the development of democratic
trade-unions which has been one of the main programmes of
SCaP. In,eed, the Social Democratic Party has very much
in common with the principles advocated by SCAP. It is
different rom Premier Yoshida who unwillingly passed the
new Constitution and is ow reluctantly going to adapt the
Government to the Nine Point Economic Recovery Project. It
was for this reason that the party dared to form a coalition
cabinet though it held only one third and one fifth in the
lower and upper houses respectively. Many critics attributed
the defeat to these coalitions and criticized just as the
public scolded it for the complete failure of its administra-
tion under these coalition cabinets.
I personally, however, cannot admit such comments.
Two coalition cabinets ude their best efforts in cooperating
with occupation policy, because they thought it was the
best t ing for them to do for the nation at that period.
The facts and figures proved that during that period
we saw an improvement of the food situation, a gradual
increase of production and exports, and adequate guidance
for the democratic trade-unions, ail of which the former
Yoshida Cabinet completely failed.
If the Jocialist Party, like the Communist Party,
could have mobilized all sorts of means of publishing
activities, it would have n de people understand the : erit
of the party. Unfortunately, the Socialists were incompe-
tent for this purpose. Moreover, the leading Japanese
newspapers have been bitter toward the party, some from
the capital on which they stand, some fron sentimental
antagonism against coalitions tnd some trying to whip the
party from good will. Under such circumstances the
party's cooperation with occupetion policies in the name of
the Japanese Government totally lost the support of the
Jepanese masses.
4. There is one failure the party must admit was
conmitted by the coalition sovernments. The party failed
to control the bureaucrat forces which is to be considered
a great menace for democratizing Japan. These rotten,
irresponsible bureaucrats hampered the adv nee. ent of
renovatins policies. One of the reasons why the party
gave the impression of betraying its promises must be
attributed to the resistance made from inside the administra-
tion。
These

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Desaptch 146,
March 12, 1949.
-3-
These are the main causes of the defeat. Generally
speaking the Japanese public, who have not been very
politically minded, expected too much from the Socialists,
because they proclaimed thet they were friends of the
poor masses.  However in reality the party gave them
high prices of commodities, rigid and ever-lasting controlled
economy and unreasonable rates of taxes to the great
disappointment of the masses. Thus the party was in a
dilenma between the people's c. 1 'nts and the responsi-
bility to practice occupation policies. The revision of
the civil service law initiated by General Headquarters
made the situation worse. If the party had considered
the selfish interest of the party first,it should have
left the government immediately after the appearance of
SCAP's letter on this subject. If it had acted so smartly,
i could not have given excuses for Communists to attack
the Socialists. But the staff of the porty maintained a
loyal attitude to the Occupation Authol.ty end remained
in office.
The Victory of the Democratic Liberals
We attribute the biggest cause of the Democratic
Liberals' over-whelming victory to Yoshida's personal
character. He received nttion-wide applause because of
his errogant attitude towards the Occupation Forces. A
coc rative attitude towards the Occupation Forces is
becoming quite unpopular among the Japanese people.
es which pretend to
They support the action oi
ignore the fact of uncondltional surrender
a) Feople hate controlled economy which has boen
carried out from before the Jar and has become more and
more intolerable for them.
b) People have forgotten the cood will shown by
the Ocoupation Forcer in sunding food and other necessary
commodities, end attribute the difrloultlou of living to
the Occupation policy.
) modiun and pmull onterprioore ure murferlns from
the luck of funds und tle heuvy burden or taxed
so hie purty hs the
weloome Yoshida's oomebno:
tredition or supportine a flourtehlne market polley.
d) People are tirod or the ration eyutem und are
dreamine or the free eoonomy promlued by the Demoorutle
Liberels.
Besides thege unfounded expe.   one of thie party.
the extravagant funds used by the Demooratle Liberal
cendidaten must be counted as ono of the main roasons for
their viotory.
On the

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
wieaule coroayo
Despátch No. 146,
March 12, 1949.
-4-
On the Gain of Communists
1. The gain of the Communists from 4 to 35 seats
in the House of Representatives overshadows the future
of democracy in this country. The majority being held
by the conserv:tives will not bring security in protect-
ing Japan from the totalitarian menace, unless some
drastic measures ere taken by the Allied Authority to
combat this new phase in the Diet. It is almost useless to
say that the Conmunists are seeking to find an opportunity
of overthrowing the Government by violence. In such a
case the conservatives will not hesitate to appeal to
violence too. In order to check such extremists, the
Social Democrats must stand in between. The Socialists
are the only pover which can fight against the communist
idealogy, not by violence but by thought. It is the only
party which can struggle on the same platform with the
Communists in trade-unions and fermers' unions. Naturally,
the advancement of the Co munists at the saorifice of the
Socialists means more than the . v of the Derocratic
Liberals. Indeed, it jeopardizes true democracy in
Japan as advocated by the Occupation Forces.
2. a) Just like the Japanese supported Yoshida'
stiffness to the Allied Forces, they applauded the Anti-
American struggle of the Comlunists, which a ppealel to
nationalistic sentiments. The main slogan of the Reds
was "Slave of Foreign Capitalism or Independence of the
Nation". It attributed the difficulties of living to
ScAP's policy explaining the crowded traffic by the export
of locomotives and treins and the shortage of textile
commodities by that of every inch of textile.
b) It claimed thet Japan is being comreiled to
commodities at high prices from abroad and export cem-
modities at low prices It continued saying that it
proved the slavish adherence of the Govern ent of Japan
to Foreign Towers, thet the Japanese were foreed to cst suger
only for the time being
c) Against this irrosponsible and felse pror
made by thle Conmunists, the Soeialists had to suy taet we
are a defeated nation and ust not forget the coed will of
the American people. The Socialists slso must tell the
people thet it was agoinst the true spirit of dexoev ey
to insist
"ted claims. However, such preashings
were unpopular for collecting votes.
d) Literary activities are being carried out by
the Communists on a large se le, while that of the
Socialists is incredibly roor.The Corm unists have their
own daily paper and a number of periodicels are being
edited by Conmunists or their fellow travelers. :ost of
the union bulletins are under Com unist influence
Since

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.98)
Edolosure co Tokyo's
Despatah No. 146,
Maroh 12,1949.
-5-
Since Communist influence is so great in the literary
field that writers and critics are not only afraid to
criticize Communists, but also do not forget to praise
them. On the contrary, these writers make very possible
effort to make the Socialist Party unpopular among the
people. There is a strong Communist influence, though
indirect, in the Paper Allocation Committee. The Socialists
tried to obtain at least the same amount of paper for
their own propaganda as that allotted to the Communist
orgens. But they were told that the door is entirely
closed for a new applicstion.
3. While Socialists were working hard in the Diet,
Government, and otler public assemblies, the Communists
made a close relation with the people by taking up the
peoples' complaints. Communists established consulting
offices at least one in each wardor town where they took
care of the reople in reducing the amount of taxes xed
by tax offices, or took housewives en mass to the ward
offices demanding special rations of rice. They sometimes
threatened landlords in regard to house problems. They
entertain children with paper puppets, teach social dances
to the young folks, welcome repatriated soldiers at ports
and stations. These dail:
ities attracted poor
people, of low intelligence. It must be stressed that the
future of Communism is being cultivated while the low
intelligence of the masses furnishes hot beds for rovolution
in the future. Under such circumstances their strength
will increase ore and more.
4. Communists seem to have abundent funds to cerry
out such daily activities as well as political campaigns.
For instance, they pay fabulous prices in order to establish
t. consultin offices. Conmunist organizers are
usually being well paid. The Socialists must learn such
elaborate and constant activities of the Conmunists, but
they do not know how to raise the necessary funds.
5. The Communists have succeeded in inviting some
intellectual people to their camp, asking them to cooperate
with the party. The Socialists have also many promihent
friends, but they are not well organized to secure their
full cooperation for the party. This  ust be done
immediately.
6. The Communists aie siving strong influence to
unions. While so far the Jocialists respected the initietive
of trade unions ey id not make any close relation with
them. But hereafter the party  ust make itself more
closely affiliated with the nions.
The

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatch No. 146,
March 12, 1949.
-6-
7. The victory of the Communists in China brought
many benefits to the Communists here. Labor leaders and
some intellectuals were threatened by the Communists
here who said to them that those who opposed the Communists
would be hanged sooner or later, because Japan would come
under the influence of the Reds quite soon. Such threats
often adopted by the Communists for various purposes must
not be used by the Socialists.
CONCLUSION
The retreat of the midile-road policy was unfortunate
for the purpose of peace and democracy. However, democracy
cannot be cultivated artif:
The defeat of the
Socialists will give them a chance to reflect. It is
questionable just how any people voted with definite
intention. The Mainichi published its own study made
January 26-27, asking people whether they ex ect sometling
out of this new political phase. Tifty percent enswered
no or thet they have little expectation, twenty-one per-
cent said cannot tell and only twenty-seven percent
answered satisfying the result.  ig from this study
so meny people voted without much thinking. This fact
is a great disappointaent to those who tried to democratize
the Japanese people. The Socialist Party must pay its
best effort for its reconstruction as well as for the
democratization of the Japanese people. Should it feil,
the country will be over run either by reactionaries or
totalitarianism.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
STANDARID FORM NO. 64
DATE: Maroh 14, 1949
TO
: 8 - The Searetary
Thru : S/S PrB
FROM
FE - Mr. Butterworth
REOEIVED
MAR 2 0 1950
SUBJECT:
General Barr has just returned and I spent a
most worthwhile and instructive hour and a half with
him this afternoon. He plans to leave Washington in
dinner wik
a week's time to take leave prior to returning to
Bultervorch
Japan where he is now posted.
and Barr
Thuraday
In view of recent Congressional developments, I
3/17
think you would find it particularly profitable to
BE.
have a personal talk with him at the earlie st moment.
894.00/3-1449
I am getting in touch with Gross to see whether he can
finagle an appearance by Barr before the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee or the House Foreign Affairs
Committee or both.
0013
X 000644
6
0
MAR 2 9 1950
FE:WWButterworth:mss
CONFIDN

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
OBR
14 Maroh,
1 9 4 9.
Piles
Ce..tral
Hon. Dean Acheson,
1949 MAR 17 PM 3
DIV. OF PUBLIC LIAISON
Seoretary of State,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
BB
e
Returned to
Dear Mr. Aches on :
2
6
Incloeed is e report submitted some time ago to the Civil
Affairs and other interested euthorities over in the War
Department. lthough it sketchy (and very poorly typed!)
I believe it will indicate that there are essential diffi-
culties with the Occupation of Japan with make it impera-
tive thet some action be taken to bring about a reorien-
894.00/3-1449
tation of policy.
While I do believe that the recent State end army directive
on en economic 'austerity' progrem within Japan will be
of considerable aid, I am also convinced after three years
amongst the Japenese as an officha of the Occupation that
we have almost completely failed in meeting and chelleng-
ing the ideological warfare of the Gommunists. I ran the
only vigorous enti-CP prorpgram in Japan, end as you will
note from the inclosed, it wes not too successful.
The Russian Mission had at least 20 persons engeged in
lisison work with the unions. I worked with another man...
that and no more. But believe me, Mr. Secretary of
State, a job can be done and must be done in Japan ...
and very soon. There can be no further loss of time.
CS/HM
Thank you for whetever consideretion you give this report.
And I again apologize for the typing. I am not noted for
accuracy in typing&
Most smncerely,
R.wa
894.00
Riehara L-G. Deverall,
40 Prospect Perk West,
Brooklyn, New York.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
SUBJKOT: Oepat1on ef Japen
TO
: War Department, Stete Depertment, Far Easterm Commisakiea.
FROm : Richard L-G. Deverall, 40 Prospest Park West, Breoklym, New
York.
1. The writer of this report served in Japen first during late 1945 es
Labour Ufricer for the llth Airbourne Division at Sendai, and them as
Labour fficerof the 98th Division at Nara. From February through mg-
ust 1946 e served as Chief, Field Liaison Brenoh, Labour Divisiem ef
Mae Arthurs' heedquarters, and as sueh visited every Military Gevern-
ment team in Japan, spent several days with each M. G. team as well as
with offieials or the Japenese government, labour leaders, and so
forth, From August 1946 through Ootober 1948, the writer wes Chief of
the Labour Education Branoh, Labour Division, Mac Arthurs' heedquartere.
Before the wer, the writer wes for severel years editor of e liberal
ley Catholio monthly, a college instruotur, and for 2& years the Int.
Educetion Direotor of the Uaw-CIo at Detroit.
B. Conelusions:
The breakdown of prioe control and rationing in Japan from the
very beginning heve so aoted that two million government workers
have been driven into the arms of the Communist Party.
Marxism has had a long tradition in Japen. Under Generals Araki
and Doihara, et al, the Young frtcers and onlistedmen of the
Japenese Army during the 1931-l943 period were earefully sehooled
in economio dootrines thet combined Marxism with Tego's and Arski's
expansionism. The Communist Party of post-wer Japan has utilized
this Marxist tredition in its maroh to power. GHQ has developed
no effe etive counter-propagende program.
The NCIU (Netional Congress of Industrial Unions) end some of 1ts
satellite organizations are not trade unions but revolutionary syn-
dioates. Util zing the Fer Eastern Commission "Sixtreen Prineiples
for Japanese Trade Uniona" as a fecade, the NCIU unions have built
a fine propaganda campaign throughout Japan that is anti-demooratie
and anti-Occupation. The NCIU unions, or certain parts such as
the Youth Seotions, should be dissolved by SCiß order es exhihiting
fesoist and totaliterian trends.
The Occupation has pemitted whdespreed enc whobesame violetion
of the Far Eastern Commission "Prinoiples for Japenese Unions"
with regard to the finanoing of unions by the employer. Until last
July, the Japenese Government itself paid the wages of 8,500
trade union ofrioials end olerks. Lert wing gcvernment unions were
thus freed of finenoial problems, invested their money in Communist
propagende or the Communist publishing house. The abuses of employer
finanoing of unions in Japen is still rampant, with union meetings
held on company time, union hall ront paid by the employer, and in
many cases payment of time lost through strike sotion paid by the
employer. SCaP toleration of these abuses has been no amall factor
-1-

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
Repart, "Japan, Cesupatien pr" by R. Deverall, dek
in the eyeatien of  irrespemsible labour mevent in Japas.
twe persoms in the Labour Division, in Tekye, are subvemeive em
are "leaks". Beth heve to my knowledge failed to elear Takye
leyalty sheeks; both were retaimed through the insistenee er the
Chier of the Labour Division.
The United States cannot and is not reaching the Japanese people
with a ecmprehensive statement of its point of view on ecemomie
and sooiel problems. Both Soviet sources and the Japen Cemmmmist
Party are reaching the Japanese people. The popularity ef the
Umited Stetes in Japan has considerably wened during the past
three years: (1) natural resistance to ANY cecupation; (2) the
effeet of Soviet and indigenous Communist propagande; and (s)
perversion of Japanese press, radio, end newsreel to their use
as vehioles for pro-Soviet, anti-American, enti-demoeratio prope-
ganda.
3. The Reesoning and Some of the Facts:
1. There was little 1 flation or wages and/or food prices in Japen
during the Pacifid War. Wages 1n 1945 avera ed from Y 4 to Y 5
per day, government workers from Y 50 to Y 80 per month. In-
flation was stimuleted when the Japanese Govermment gave it a
kiok-off on 24 August l945, lifted controls on metals and
olothing manufacture. Inrlation received additional impetus
whtn Mitsui and Mitsubishi disoherged hundreds of thousands of
workers, peid out "gmnerous discharge allowances". But imflation
in Japen got its biggest acceleration when Mao Arthurs' Eeo-
nomio end Soientifio Wection ordered prioe controls lifted on
fruits end vegetables end fish on 20 November l945. with centrels
off, inflation ehot sky high. The wages of workers never again
eaught up with priees. SCAP did not began a realistio crack-
down until 1t received the FEC direotive of 11 December, 1947.
During l94s, the besio food situation was slowly corrected, but
only insofer es 30 to 40% reduotions in prioes were made. the
Bleck Market continued. With workers spendiag from 60 to 70
of the ir entire oash inoome on the black market, this factor
in Japanese economic life cannot be overemphasized.
The fect that ESS permitted the blaok marketing of food to run
awey with infletionery Japenese economy 1s vitel, but more im-
portant is on analysis of the affeots of these economio oondit-
ions on the politieal situation. During the three-year inflation,
the fermers heve lived well. Many Japanese farmers frankly admit
"We never had it so good." Japenese workers in private industry
have, sinee l946, foroed the employer to buy black market food
in order to supplement inoome. Coal mines and factories have
peid out millions of yon for black market food s ince February
l946...with the cost going into either the price or the bill for
a government subsidy.
But the government workers were the only large olass that could

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.96)
memie roots of the growing Commamist strength. Enforeememt ef prise
eemtrel end wider rationing mince lees would have prevented mmsk
and other Military Government lebour officers were so reperting te
SCAP ever s1nee lete 1945.
2. Marrism entered Japan back in the middle l8so's . It flourished
under police repression, and by the early l9so's hed beecme a ses-
1ous problem within Japan. Although the regime tried to repress
Mar 1mm in the l930's, they never suceeeded. Under the leadership
of Generals Araki and Doihara, the Kwentung Army developed & system
of economio thought for the Army, widely disseminated, whieh imelm-
ded a ourious fuxion of Marxism and Japanese imperielism. The Ewem-
tang Army in Manehuria, which was enti-Zaibatsu, ereeted a plammed
economy and e controlled industrial set-up which Tojo threatened to
bring to Honshu by l94l. The Blaming Boerd of the Army, whisk
was heavily staffed with er-Communists and 'reeanted' Socialists,
was the Army spearhead for colle stivism in Japan. When Tojo lest his
fight with Japanese finance in l943, the Planning Board was disselved.
The Japanese Zaibatsu and the banking gro ps feared the Kwantung Amy
group because of this radieal merxism. The Younger officerrs end
large sections of the Japenes: Army were, es e result of ten years
of this propeganda, antd-capitalist, enti-individualistio, anti-Anglo
Maxon, and, ouriously, also anti-Russian. The first persons who were
in his positions in SCAP's CI&E (Civil Information and Edw etion Seet)
at the time of the surrender knew this wery well, end gave the initial
impetus to the growth of Communism in Japen. (Irefer to the role of
Capt. Arthur Behratook, lst Lt. Wyman Hioks, Sgt. Bernakk Rubin,
Conde, and Osrow.) From the very beginning, the Communists, operating
through the NCIu End its forerunners, penetrated and secured a work-
ing ocntrol of the Japenese press, radio, and newareel. Al though
somewhat beaten down through the past two years, Communist manipulation
of the Japenese press, radio, and newereel continues. Building on
the old Tojo line, the Communist Party (exoeiting tts anti-Baperor
position) is follow ing the anti-oapitelist, anti-individual ism.
anti-Anglo Saxon line of the militarists Araki and Doihara. And 1t
is no seeret that both the Communist Party of Japen end the NCIU
ere run with the precision of a military mechine; it should be, for
ex-o ficers of the Japenese Army will be found both et the top and
in the lower eohelons of both the Japan Communiat Party and the NCIU.
To my knowledge, SCap hes never developed eny propegenda progrem
(a)oreoognizing the relations of Araki end the JCP; end (b) Smash-
ing the Gonoepts of Red Militerism and Red Feudelism. The Communists
in Japen have thus had a field day in Japan.
3. Suffioient intelligence hes been developed by the Veoupation to
indiate the revolutionary, ant1-demooratic, enti-Occupation oharae-
ter of the NCIU. Based on 1ts own publio ennounoements, the NOIU
should and could have been dissolved from the very beginning. On
the con trary, the NCIU was enoouraged by Mr. Theodore Cohen, a for-
mer CCNY young Socielist, and Ceptain Anthony Costantino, former
CI0 orgenized fired for inwolvement in Communist activities. Costantino
also worked for Di triot 50 of the United Mine Workers.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
art. Srepan, Gssupatien of," by R. Deverall,
Atrhur on 7th December l94s, both are in my opinion mot only dis-
leyel but subversive. Army security reports in Tokye, I am mese
will veriry my own convietions en this matter. The eentimmenee af
these men in positions high in Iss has played mo mmell part im the
eemtimuance of the influenee of the Communist Party and the maxu
in Japen. Further, when the Japan Communist Party and the NoIU ame
given advance notiee of SCAP policies by men inside ESs, one sam
hardly expeot more.
4. The question of the government finanoing, or employer finaneing
of the trede unions hes been mooted from the very beginning. Despite
the Far Eastern Commission pronouneement of the 6th December lo46,
Ess has not only tolerated but under Mr. James Killen, the trade
union movement in Japan wes "proteoted" from any real attempt te
correet this abuse. Killen felt thet he could in time 'persuade' the
unions to drop the abuses. Prin ted com ent of some unions, sueh as
the Communioations' Workers, following sonferenees with Killen,
indiated thet the Japanese recognized in top ESs ofrieiels men who
didn't really mow what went on. The abuses of employer fineneing
met only inoludes the payment of a union official for from every
l00 to soo workers, but also inoludes the payment of wages when on
strike, payment of wages during union meeting, payment of all the
expenses of the union including oulturel and labour educ tion ex-
penses, end payment by the employer for the of iee, equipment, and
possibly transportetion for the union office. Japanese unions, whem
apnroaehed by the writer during August of 1947, regarded this abuse,
despite FEC prinoiples, es unimportent, termed FEC principles "a semap
of paper. This seme refleotion of ESS end Labour Division indiffer-
enee has been reflected in the case pf produotion control, wmre in
Japenese unions have taken over and confiscated the property of the
employer under the guise or e "labour dis pute". For erample, the
two-hundred page book REPORT OF THE NCIU wes prin ted free of oherge
by the striking (produotion control) workers of the Aikodo Frinting
Company in Tokyo. Making Japanese unions pay the ir own way will
foree the leaders down from the olouds into the realities of life.
It is indeed a pity that Generel Marquet and his edvisers have hed
no apprccietion of Fer Eastern Commission prinoiples for Japenese
trade unions.
Finelly, it should be noted thet SCaP has done little to promote
a real propahenda developing the besid Fer Bastern Commission
prinoiples for Trade Unions other then the thirty (30) pamphlets
written by the writer of this report. ESS officiels limited pro-
duotion of our basio labour pemphlets to 150 to 200 English-len-
guage copies beeause of the paper shortege'. Had we been uneble
to persuade Jepenese souroes to reprduce them in quentityt in
Japanese, they would never have reeched the Jepanese. Meanwhile the
pro-Sovist literature inside Japan, in Japenese, has poured from
the presses. There seems to be somethirg terribiywront with a
polioy thet permits the procurement of tremendoue printing for non-
essential Ocoupetion needs (such es the prin ting of Bar Chits or
faney reporte on 'wild Life in Jepan') yet whioh denied any printing
to propagendize the Japenese.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
er distribution te all Military Gevermmemt Teme fer their
educating lesal Japmese. By august of leéa the film strip 
charge of the film strip program was thinking of finemeing this
film strip om FE0 polieies eut of his owm peeket. Oms een be sure
that the Hussian Mission in Japan has no hesitation in finanaing
projeots whioh spread propegande tmong the Japenese trade umiomm.
Finally, when I lort Tokyo, the Labour Ministry, whiek is partly
infiltrated by Communists, was working on a 35 mm. movie on the
Mareh of Labour which highlighted the May Day speeeh of the Japan
Communist Party General Seeretery, showed anti-Vecupation slogams
in the beckground. After three years of struggle, the writer eom-
pletely abandoned hope of the produetion of ome movie on basie
democratio trade union principles. Again, "no funds".
5. Correspon dence of £8S policies and the announeed polioies of
both the Communist Farty and the NOIU seem interesting. Thus,
although ESs was committed to a rationalization of the wage
system, ESS not only tolerated but permitted the padding of wages
to such an extent that wage feudalism has developed. On the seth
of September, 1945, Generel Mac Arthur ordered the Japanese Govern-
ment to do some thing about "wege e prioe oon trol". Wage contrels
were realmxed by E88, were finelly junked. Essential and vital prese
controls were abolished on 20 November l945. Fron the very beginnms,
the Japan Communist Party end the NCIU Sought Egainst the disohargins
of thousemds of obvicusly surplus workers. The Labour Divisiom ofess.
privately admitting the necessity for this, enforeed a position within
Sdap whioh bolsetered up the Communist platform of "no mass diseharge.
The earned ineome tax on workers has been a real herdship for the
workers in view of inflation without adjustment of tax levels. This
has been a fertile breeding point for Communist propaganda. ESS hes
been strengely beokward in eny attemptg to work out a rational tax
system in Japen. The JCP and the NCIU have insisted thet the omployer
must pay the bill for the 'demooretio revolution' so oelled. kss has
refused to enforce its own directives in this direction. The writer
fought employer finanoing fo two yeara, but it wes a waste of time
for the Communists mew thet the writer had no beeking higher up.
The parellels are perhaps without deeign. Yet the fect remains that,
in the meny items o1 ed above, as well ee in a multitude of others,
the polisies of ESs (especialiy with regard to labour, price control,
and texetion) have been both infletionary and an aid and comfort to
the enti-Occupetion, Communistio elements within Japan. Thds faet
has always been one which astounded the writer. And many of the people
in trokyo have for years di soussed the fact that so many of our
eeonomio polioies were pleying direotly into the hands of the Commun-
1to.
6. The Soviet Radio in going aoross to Japen 2ive times a day in
Japmese... That it 1s reaching large masses of the Japere se oan pe
seem from the faot that there is a stook pnrase in Japen now: "I
heard e rumour last night..." The rumoura are usually comerned
with the Mershall Plan, the oollapse of American eep ital ism, Honry
Wallace, or the "wer mongering" of President Truman.
-5-

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
Mepert, "Japan, Oceupation or" by R. Deverall, dated ssa
Zhe Japenese Commmmist Party is getting its points sereée. 
the past yeart espesially, there is haraly a plese ene eam ge ti
Communists posters on the telephome and telegraph peles. Part
the Japanex: Commanist party 1a able to do a job. Tme majer daily
newspaper, exeepting Yomiuri Shimbaa. romain under Cemmumist imrlu-
enee, as do many of the radio stations. Thus, when Gemerel Mee
mumist leader sould not get time for a radio breadeast in Tekye.
jumped a train for northern Semdai and there made a fighting amtt-
Occupation speeeh. Buring the past spring, the writer made a per-
sonal survey of a series of the weekly newsreels released by Nippen
Newsreel for all Japen. The quite obvious Communiat slanting of
the nemsreels was obvious. In the newapaper field, despite the
heroid efforts on the part of Major Daniel C. Imboden, the priess
continues to slant when possible. Une example oan be found in the
fact that during the sumer of 1948 Henry Wallace and the Pro-
gressive Party were featured es the "winners" in most of the major
Japan deily newspapers of Japan.
There is an assooiation of lebour reporters throughout Japen, the
Farmer Lebour News Reporters Cl:b whioh meets in Tokyo directly
behind ESS headquarters. Repeated reports from Japenese non-Com-
munists and right wing union leaders rapmr indicate syatematie
slanting in daily news reporting. Leaders of the enti-Communist
Demoarqtization League report that they cannot get into the daily
newapaper, the ir rele ases being thrown into the wastepaper basket
by Communist repo ters. The Club was formed, asoprding to Japanese
as well es Amerioen souroe., by an American let Lt. who is now
 member of the left wing Califomia Labour School! The writer
made an attempt this past sum er (1948) to correot the situetion
by CI&e Aotion. ESs blocked this aotion, stopped eny further
investigation.
One of the most interesting points in the non-development of an
anti-Com unist program is that the writer purchased with his own
funds a oopy of the Congrossional publ1 etion COmmUNISM IN ACTIoN.
This publication was submi ted to ESs for possible trenslation and
republicetion in Japenese to define end alyse Com uniam for the
Japen se. The oheok-note wes returned without eotion, and the
publicetion was withdrawn. rossible republication was this killed
within Meo Arthur s headqu: rters.
4. My own resommendations oone from the feots of the situation ae I have
soen them during the pest three yeers in Japen:
a。
There must be a house-oleaning within Ess of those elements who have
enoouraged the advance of the Communist and cIu elemen ts wi thin
Japan. No person should remein in a aensitive position whose loyalty
is even questioned. Further, it is quite obvious that the top eoo-
momio advisers in EsS have failed misereably in the program of stopping
1nfletion announoed by Ss in 1945. Although Mao Arthu s' be adquerters
in l946 purged the reds from I&, no such purge wes undertaken within
ESS.
b. The Oocupetion muat enforce the Far Eastern Commission"Sixteen Prin-
oiples for Japenese Trede Unions" before we rinish up in Japan. Ex-

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
Report, "Jepem, Oecupation of" by R. Reve
peeially, the srade union mevement must be shakem tosts 
funds, should be suppressed sternly in order to foree she left wing
unions topay their own way and develop a sense of responsibility.
Further, the poorer right wing unions will have a bettor chanee if
they don't have to buok heavily subsidized CP unions.
If the NOIU 1a now dissolved, offioial SOAP direotives could be used
to dissolve the terroristio Yough Aotion Corps, Youth Seetions, and
other feso1st Youth groups whioh exhibit militaristie and anti-
demooretio forms and tendenoies. A orack-down on the Youth Sections
with in the unions would put the Com unists on the defensive.
A review of ESS economio polioies should be made by a competent
economicist, rather than to continue "economio reforms" at the expense
of the Ameri cen taxpayer in the hands of edolescents and incomple tents.
The glering eoonomio feilures of 1945-1948 are an indiotment which
oan ot be explained ewey.
There can be little dant made on publio opinion in Japan until the
State Depertment end the rmy decide to spend more money on propaganda,
less on food imports (whicb in my opinion could be sharply out at this
time). A weekly wall newspeper could be used to reaoh every home
in Jepen...at small oost. But we oennot expeot to reaoh the little
Japenese until we have a streamlined psyohological warfare outfit in
Japen which, using our exeelient intelligence to the fu lest, explains
to the little Japenese pr cisely why Communism is un-demooratio and
why Communism is the suoeessor of the military gang. Our present
CI&s operetion in Jepen is importent, but in my estimation -- exeopting
Major Imboden and a few othors -- CI&E is not meeting the ideologioal
challenge of Communiam within Jepan. Indeed, CI&E oannot meet this
hallenge when it muet work through Japen ese who are themselves infeeted
with Merxism end nationeliam. One sample of this failure is a book on
Demooreoy which has been in reperetion by I& for two ye ers. When I
left Tokyo, the draft copy was an impossible hashing of Aden Smith and
Kerl Merx. It was elmost oomio yet tregic when you realize that it is
proposed to 1ssue 2,00o,000 copies fo the Japanese sohool system.
A hard-hitting psychologicel warfare (or psyohological peace-fare) unit
in Japen which deels direotly with the Japanese peopãe et the bottom
by directly influencins press, radio, mwareel, publishers, ete.,
end which above all cen ie sue its own material in the Japenese len-
guage,... thet is my con ce tion of one of the few hopes of turning
back end defeeting the tide of Communist infiltration in Japan.
The Communist Party of Japan within three ye ars had marohed from a vote
of zero to the January 1949 el otoral vote of almost 3,000,000. Coupled
with geopolitioel developments in northern Chine, the situation within
Japen is grave. It would indeed be the supreme tragedy of the Pecifio
War 1s the American Oocupetion, at the end of its firth year, should be
1n control of e Japan whose population wes enti-Amerioen ond whose govern-
mont wes Communist. In my estimation, if the present trends are not shrp
ly reversed, that is the ultimate conclmsion of our vcoupation of Japan.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.89)
Repert, "Japan, Cccupation of" by R. meverall, dated Sra 
I ropeat, it will be a supreme tragedy, for it will signalise the leem
of the Paeirie War by our forees.
Rioherd L-G. Deverall
1349MAR1

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
To a blind child, a dog means more than toys and gifts. He is a
companion, a friend who dispels loneliness from their young lives
BUDDIES
ANCORPORATED
Now we're friends. Handclasp and pawclasp mark
A "shareholders' meeting" of Buddies. The children
the beginning of a real and abiding friendship.
seem to enjoy it, but the pets seem indifferent.
The children are taught to care for their dogs.
Going for a walk or rather a trot. The pup looks
Ducky anticipates a brushing by closing his eyes.
winded, but his blind master seems fresh and eager.
February, 1949
15

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan on the Red Timetable
With the press, radio, and motion pictures heavily
slanted in favor of the Communists, democracy is making slow progress
in Japan. More democratic propaganda is needed now
by RICHARD L-G. DEVERALL
Acme photos.
The Reds in Japan use mass demonstrations and strikes in-
stead of parliamentary procedure. It has proven successful
N the thirtieth of May, in the
convention had gone that the writer
of: "Sabotage in August, strike in Sep-
historic city of Nara, the chief of
was forbidden to appear the next day
tember, and then the October revolution
MacArthur's Labor Division, Mr. James
at the convention, although he had been
. . . Banzai!"
S. Killen, appeared at the convention
an invited guest and was prepared to
By strong and decisive action, General
of the Japanese Government Railroad
expose the Communist operation with-
MacArthur stopped the drive for a
Workers. Hundreds of delegates filled
in this union.
Communist revolution in Japan when,
the temple in which the problems of
The affair was not without signifi-
on July 22, he directed that all govern-
some 600,000 Japanese railroad workers
cance, for it was the first time since the
ment workers were to lose their right to
were being discussed. The chairman
occupation of Japan (which officially
strike. Thus he removed from the
of the convention, a Communist, told
began on September 2, 1945, out in
Communist Party's hands their most
Killen: "We are very busy now with
Tokyo Bay) that a major Japanese group
dangerous weapon - manipulation of
our affairs. But we will vote as to
had insulted the Occupation and
government unions to undermine the
whether or not you may speak to the
sneered in the face of a high repre-
Government, capture its services, and
convention."
sentative of General Douglas Mac-
then overthrow it altogether.
While Killen cooled his heels. the
Arthur. Supreme Commander for the
The prewar Japanese Communist
convention voted by a slim margin to
Allied Powers.
Party had never made any headway in-
hear MacArthur's representative, who
The Communists at the convention
side Japan, for not only was police re-
was also an American Federation of
apparently gauged GHQ strength by
pression severe, but Japanese Commun-
Labor official. When Killen launched
the manner in which the GHQ repre-
ists often proved"themselves more.
into his talk, the hall was filled with
sentative reacted to their insulting treat-
Japanese than Communist. In other
cries of "No, no . . ." and "Absolute
ment. The Communists captured the
words, although the Comintern insisted
opposition . . ." Communist leaders
convention and, in concert with the
on overthrow of the Emperor, factions
sitting in the audience jeered and
other government workers' unions, be-
within the prewar party insisted on
laughed at the American as he labored
gan a drive for a general strike through-
"revolution and the Emperor too .. ."
through his speech. Killen was so
out Japan. During July, representatives
For the truth is that the Japanese is
perturbed by the manner in which the
of the Communist Party spoke fervently
wedded to the emperor system to such
16
THE SIGN

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
an extent that evén a devout Comintern
ceeded speedily to the task of purging
other Communist publications appeared,
 follower often drew the line at that
"militarists" from-government, educa-
including magazines for youth, maga-
point.
tion, and econormic-social life. In addi-
zines for young women, and Communist
Although, during the long days of the
tion, the Allies announced an ambitious
funny books for the children. It is a
Pacific War, many of the top Communist
plan for the smashing of the huge Zai-
sad commentary on the American officer
leaders languished in the prisons of
batsu (family) corporations which, un-
then in charge of information that the
Japan, others were able to escape the
der government financing, had com-
Communist Party was given, and still
Japanese police and procced to Yenan,
plete control of the natural resources
retains, the largest allocation of news-
inside Communist China, where they
and basic industries and services of
print and paper in terms of party mem-
were under Comintern direction. A
Japan.
bership of any political organization
Japanese Peoples' Emancipation League
Unfortunately, in the field, the Mili-
within Japan!
was formed, Communist schools were
tary Government Teanms that had come
The propaganda of the Communists
operated. and hundreds of Japanese
from America to observe enforcement
in the beginning centered on "demo-
Sanzo Nozaka, Communist hero, returned
General MacArthur has stopped several at-
in 1946 and was received with open arms
tempted revolutions, but peace is far away
workers and intellectuals were trained
of Allied policies were shitted trom one
cratization of industry" and "down with
for their job at the end of the Pacific
prefecture to another. Often the Japa-
the Emperor." Again, as in prewar days.
War. Indeed, in May, 1945, with the
nese had better information on Mac-
the Communists found that their anti-
end of the war in sight, the Communist
Arthur's policies than did Military Gov-
Emperor slogans were not popular with
Party of Japan, still in Red China, out-
ernment in the field. And. in addition,
the Japanese, for even Communists
lined a program including purging of
the continued drain of personnel dur-
bowed when they walked in front of the
"war criminals" and seizure of their
ing 1945-1946 due to the overrapid
Imperial Palace in Tokyo.
property in the name of the "people."
demobilization of our Army resulted in
But, under this cry of "democrati-
complete political liberty, and a revolu-
a lack of trained permanent observers
zation of industry," the Party through
tionary agrarian program.
throughout all Japan.
its left-wing stooge unions initially in
Thus, when the Aliied Powers steamed
On the other hand, at the end of the
1945 concentrated on newspapers, press.
into Tokyo Bay on September 2. 1945.
war. the Yenan-trained Japanese Com-
magazines, and radio. No American
and Japanese officials signed the in-
munists were ready. They had plans.
who was not in Japan at that time can
struments of surrender, the first act in
they knew what they wanted, and it was
realize the tremendous propaganda drive
the drama was ready.
not many wecks before they were back.
carried forward by the Communist Party
The Allied Powers entered Tokyo and
reportedly bringing with them not only
-and using other people's money! By
occupied Japan. The first tasks. de-
plans but huge sums of money. The
the spring of 1946, press. radio, and
militarization of Japan and demobili-
imprisoned Communists released on
motion pictures were heavily slanted in
zation of its armed forces, were accom-
October 10, 1945 by General MacArthur,
fayor of the left wing and Communist
plished in a few months. Working
joined forces with the Comintern-
elements. When Sanzo Nozaka, Com-
through the Japanese Government, Mac-
trained Communists. In a few weeks.
munist hero, returned from abroad.
Arthur abolished the police repressive
the Comaunist Party had its official
almost every public agency of communi-
agencies, granted liberty to all political
organ, Red Flag, in press and publishing
cation in Japan under Red influence
prisoners, including the Communist
300,000 copies every three days. Later,
was used to worship this representative
leaders, directed the encouragement of
Red Flag became a daily, cut its circu-
of Comintern revolution. The situation
a trade union movement, and pro-
lation to 100,000. In quick succession,
almost got out of hand, but during the
February, 1949
17

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
summer of 1946 the Army cracked
RICHARD L-G. DEVERALL was
the some 3,200 union oftcials and clerk
down, and Communist influence within
General MacArthur's Chief of Labor
Freed from the burden of financing the
Education for two and a half years and
the newspapers and other periodicals
anion, the CommunicationsWorkers
recently returned to America.
was henceforth more discreet.
Union was then free to invest money in
From the very beginning, the Com-
the Communist publishing house, Dawa
munists were positive in their shunning
that, just as in Czechoslovakia and other
Press, which had printed tens of thou-
of legitimate political action. The new
places, although the Communists could
sands of Communist-written pamphlets
constitution of Japan, following the lead
use tremendous power through minority
for distribution to the government
from Moscow, was called a "fake" docu-
control of the labor movement, they
worker!
ment by the Communists. Instead of
were politically insignificant.
In the same manner, private em-
parliamentary procedures, the Commun-
One of the most interesting aspects of
ployers have been as generous. Indeed,
ists concentrated on the building of
the drive of Communism is its exploita-
in the electrical field, an official of the
mass demonstrations, the use of violence,
tion of the prewar militarist structure
Communist-dominated Electrical Work-
and the creation of Communist "mar-
based on Japanese feudalism. Thus,
ers Union told me last year that they
tyrs" through cleverly arranged incidents
the left-wing unions were undemocratic
had as high as one full-time paid union
involving the Occupation Forces. The
in their structure (and so remain)
official for every fifty workers. With
parades and demonstrations became al-
with small groups of Red Samurai
many of the officials Communists, paid
most a daily event during the spring of
(knights) controlling the actions of hun-
by the employer, is it any wonder that
1946, culminating in the Food May Day.
dreds of thousands of workers. In the
the Reds in Japan have had a virtual
But again, MacArthur was constrained to
offices of the red-controlled unions
field day?
act and warned the Japanese that force
I have gone over their books of "orders"
But it has been in the field of econ-
and violence were no way to carry
from NCIU headquarters. One order
omic policy that the Party has shone. An
on political action in a country enjoying
will direct that "Fifty young men will
examination of the policies of the Com-
one of the most liberal constitutions of
report to Sato San for a youth demon-
munist Party in Japan reveals the same
modern times.
stration." Another may direct that "A
general purpose as the Communist Party
Since the return of the Communists
resolution will be sent to the Prime
of France: sabotage of the economy, as
to full freedom and power inside Japan,
Minister saying . . ." While a third
long as United States money is being
the Comrades had been hard at work
may announce the beginning of a strike.
used to revive the economy. Thus,
in the creation of a labor movement
The rank and file of the unions, accept-
from the very beginning, the Party en-
which they could use for their own pur-
ing the old feudalism as a "new democ-
couraged inflation, urged the workers
poses. Although initially the Commun-
cracy," are thus manipulated by the new
on to more and higher wage demands.
ists worked inside the framework of the
masters.
While Communists told farmers not to
revived Japanese AF of L, they soon
turn in their rice, the city workers were
seceded and in 1946 formed their own
NE of the most shocking features of
agitated about government indifference
Japanese CIO, called the National Con-
the Communist drive is that the
to their food problems. Communist
gress of Industrial Unions (NCIU).
Japanese Government and the employer
members of the Tax Collectors Union
After a series of practice strikes and
group have played a vital part in the
sabotaged collection of taxes in order
sabotages during. the latter part of 1946,
financing of Red revolution within Ja-
to cripple the Japanese Government,
-he left-wing unions and the Commun-
pan. From the very beginning, the left-
while in northern Hokkaido it was re-
ist Party joined forces during January,
wing leaders demanded that the em-
ported that the left-wing tax collectors
1947 in the forging of a general strike
ployer pay the wages of all union officials
did not bother Comrades, but levied
involving 2,100,000 government workers.
and clerks, furnish the union offices and
heavy taxes on those opposed to the
Although wage demands were involved
equipment, and permit union activities
advance of the new totalitarianism.
in the issue, the announced purpose was
on the time and at the expense of the
Communist-printed material and ra-
overthrow of the Government by econ-
employer. Thus, in the Communist-dom-
dio programs coming into the country
omic force. Again. MacArthur inter-
inated, 350,000-strong Communications
from either the Soviet Union proper or
vened, stopped the proposed strike, and
Workers Union, the Japanese Govern-
from Sakhalin have repeatedly told the
ordered a general clection. Of the 464
ment, through its labor agreement,
Japanese that the Berlin and European
members of the Diet elected, only five
granted a closed shop, checkoff to the
problem is just part of the "cold war."
were Communists. This defeat indicated
union, and guaranteed the full pay of
The real situation, the Japanese are
told. is that the next war may well start
in the Orient, and Japan will then be
used by the Anglo-Americans as a battle-
Selective List
The roof of the church was leaking, and the
field.
minister asked for volunteers to raise funds for its
It is therefore no surprise to find
repair. Donal offered his services.
that some officials of the Japanese Gov-
About a weck later the minister met Donal, who
ernment are slow to act in warding off
showed signs of having imbibed a bit too freely.
the infiltration of the Communist Party.
Donal was apologetic. "It's collecting for the roof,
Government officials are essentially
Minister." he said. "Every one of the neighbors I
bureaucrats, and so long as the "cold
called on insisted on giving me a wee drop after
war" continues, and so long as they fear
paying down his subscription."
its impact inside Japan, they will con-
The minister was shocked. "Are there no teeto-
tinue to sit on the fence. Thus they
talers in the parish, Donal?" he asked.
will be co-operative with Occupation
"Och, aye," was the reply. "Sure there's tee-
personnel to a certain degree, but the
totalers. I've written to them."
same officials will turn around and be
-Irish Press
just as co-operative with the Communist
Party. They do not know which side
will come out on top... and they are
18
THE SIGN

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
trying to please everyone. Eyen Japan-
THE HALTER OF SNOW
ese businessmen, who have the most to
lose under a Communist regime, are
fearful of the Communists and have
by SISTER MARY IRMA, B.V.M.
played a role in the financing of the
Party.
They hid strong snares for her feet and wove to tempt her
á bridie oj gold;
Aithough resentment against the
She eluded the crafty traps; the golden bridle
Americans was evident in the head-
Would not hold.
quarters of the Communist-controiled
NCIU as early as 1946, the Party was
"A halter of snow would bind her,"
slow in developing the racist line of
Seeing her, God said,
Tojo. But on March 26, 1948, the
And slipped the white thong, cool and easily broken
Communist Party announced a new
Over her head.
drive in Japan to form a "democratic
Startled, she turned from the thick green turf of the meadow
racial front" presumably to liberate
To see what this might be,
Japan from the Anglo-American in-
And walked thenceforward in joyful circumspection,
vaders. "Culture," that magic word in
Lest she go free.
Japan, was enlisted in the drive of the
Communists, who have stepped up their
campaign against the reactionary and
Communist hands and ready to seize
The Occupation in Japan has got to
depraved culture of the Anglo-Ameri-
the Allied portion as soon as American
get tougher and more realistic in some
cans. Strong appeals to anti-American
aid has fattened it for the kill. And
directions. The many aids and com-
sentiment were made increasingly to-
Japan, that strategic key to the Orient,
forts afforded the Communist Party in
ward the spring and summer of 1918,
both a buffer for the Russians and a
Japan should be withdrawn as rapidly
advising that all Japanese must co-
base for the Americans, is faced with a
as possible. The trade union movement
operate with the Communists in preserv-
Communist-controlled China and Korea
should be shaken to its foundations,
ing "Japanese culture" free from alien
to the west, strong Soviet bases within
abuses removed, and a democratic pat-
influence. Although the rank-and-file
view to the north.
tern formed. Stricter price control and
worker, just as the farmer, is enthusiastic
Under Allied Occupation, Japan has
rationing, coupled with rational wage
about the free and easy American, the
enjoyed a freedom unknown before.
and employment policies, might well
continued drive of Communist propa-
American food shipments have within
make further food exports from the
ganda is slowly gaining, for there is a
three years brought a starving people
United States unnecessary or at least
perfectly natural resentment against any
to a level approaching their prewar days.
limit them drastically. And, above all,
occupation forces and it mounts with the
Indeed, when the Army announced this
that one priceless item which we have
passing of the years. Further, since
past spring that the Japanese diet would
not dispensed too freely should be in-
MacArthur smashed the chance of the
be increased from 1,200 to 1,450 calories,
creased with all possible speed: informa-
Communists to bring about a revolution
the announcement was misleading, for
tion and education. A writer in the
through the Japanese labor movement,
the truth is that the Japanese citizen
Military Government Journal, recently
the Communists are devoting increasing
is today cating from 1,800 to 2,000
returned from an information survey of
time and effort to the "cultural crisis,"
calories. And when you visit the farmers,
Japan, reported that some intelligent
to the infiltration of the school system
who constitute 60 per cent of the popu-
Japanese observers feel that, although
and the universities, and to the de-
lation, you find a strong, smiling, healthy
we have sent in food for the Japanese
velopment of antioccupation sentiment
people. The feat of American public
body, the Communists have been feed-
amongst the intellectuals. It was no
health service within Japan has been
ing the Japanese mind. Certainly, any
surprise when, this past October, in the
one of the outstanding developments
American in Japan will be shocked to
first election of a board of education in
of the Occupation, with Japan healthier
roam through neighborhood bookstalls
Tokyo, the Communists not only got a
today than ever before.
and find that, although the complete
party member on the five-man board,
Marx-Lenin-Stalin library is available
but got him there with the third-largest
TN the eyes of the Soviet strategist,
at low prices, books on the American
vote!
I here is a most remarkable geo-
system and on democracy are obviously
The American reader may well say,
political plum almost ready for the tak-
scarce or absent.
"Well, so what? Why should I be
ing. As the Soviets aid the capture of
The struggle inside Japan is the strug-
worried about Japan? All I want is one
China, with America sitting by twid-
gle of two ways of life: Democracy and
of those new television sets!"
dling its thumbs, and with Korea per-
Communism. A pragmatic people in
American readers prior to Pearl Har-
haps next on the timetable, the Reds
their political philosophy and way of
bor felt the same way. All most of us
have but to wait until the Americans
life, the Japanese wili possibly follow
knew about Japan was something about
complete the reconstruction and then
him who offers the "best deal."
Admiral Perry, cherry blossoms, Mount
pick off a heavily populated, vigorous
The struggle in the Orient has just
Fuji, and Madame Butterfly. But tens
little country. As the Russians rearmed
begun. The development of Soviet pol-
of thousands of American boys later
the northern Koreans, imagine if you
icy in the Far East has now entered
paid the price for that terrible indiffer-
will the possible terror of the future
the dynamic phase. Has America the
ence and ignorance. Today the Reds
if the Russians rearm the Japanese and
men and the ideas to contain the offen-
are again on the move in the East. With
once again launch a Greater East Asia
sive of international Communism and
the Berlin crisis occupying the attention
Co-Prosperity Sphere under Russian
intensify a democratic offensive of its
of the American people. the Communists
auspices. It is no wonder that General
own?
have entrenched themselves in northern
Eichelberger has declared, "If we lose
Upon our answer to this question may
China and are now well on the road
Japan, we will have lost the Pacific
depend the life and future of the boy
to mopping up the rest of that ill-fated
War."
or girl now looking over your shoulder
country. Northern Korea is firmly in
My own conclusions are very simple.
at the pictures in this magazine!
February, 1949
19

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
Pook at
"It's not worth it." the man said quickly
fast. as usual, so Mary would not
be suspicious. But not to hunt a job.
Not even to go through the motions.
me!
He was too nervous.
He knew what to do. He would go
to the little lunch cart on Dexter Street
and kill time over some coffee. The
Junch money Mary had doled out to
him from their dwindling reserve would
pay for it. In the diner he would be
warm. despite the subfreezing weather.
And Dester Street was close to Mark
roll money and starting back with it.
tramping the streets in search of work.
Suddard's route.
"Is that the right time, Alec?"
Thought about it ever since he had
"Hello. Mec." he said. sliding onto
"Set it this morning."
learned that Dan Graham was leaving
a stool. "Coffee."
"Thanks." Queer how strange his
town for a time and old Mark Suddard.
Mec served him without comment.
voice sounded. He just couldn't keep
near-sighted and timid, would be pay-
The old guy in the threadbare green
his nervousness out of it. But Alec
roll messenger.
overcoat. Ed Lacey noticed. was perched
didn't seem to notice.
"Fill it up. Alec." He pushed his cup
on the end stool again: otherwise the
Two hours to wait.
forward and looked at the clock again.
place was empty. The old guy saw
He was going through with it. There
Not so good. He was pouring the coffee
him looking, and nodded. He was like
was an element of risk, sure, but he had
down too fast. Unless he got a grip
a wrinkled, moth-eaten parrot, watching
taken bigger risks and come through
on himself.
everything that happened.
all right. That day in St. Lo. for
In the mirror behind the countei
Ed glanced at Alec's clock. He had
instance-the day he'd acquired the
he saw the old guy in the shabby green
almost two hours to kill. It was nine-
German automatic that now lay in his
overcoat staring. Those nasty. sharp
thirty now. Mark Suddard would not
coat pocket. There'd been no time
little eyes, staring. It was almost as if
leave the plant until eleven. and would
even to think of the risk that day.
they knew.
be ten minutes walking down to the
He'd thought about this, though.
Nothing could go wrong, though. He'd
bank, another ten picking up the pay.
Thought about it for two weeks. while
considered all the angles. Two thousand
20
THE SIGN

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.92)
 DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST
AFFAIRS
for Japan
mi
DET F STokyo, March 1, 1949.
No. 166
mo action nogure
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
REC'D
APRIL 7
AC TION
Subject:
Democratic Party Attitude Toward the Coalition
FE
Cabinet
INFO
894.00/3-2149
DCR
OLI
EURX
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
842100/2-1849
Washington.
M
Sir:
With reference to ti is Mission's airgrat/ no. 42
of Februery 18, 1919. I ha ve the honor to transmit to
aen
the Department a mec orandum of a conversation 
Mr. KoJIiA Tetsuzo, former Demecvatie Party member o
the House of Represent tives, aad Lrs. Jane Y. ALDEN,
who is temporarily assigned to this Ilesion from the
Department.
Mr. Kojima was defeated in t e seneral election
of Januery 23 l949. He wes ne of F original organi-
zers of the Liberal Party (prodeccesor of the present
Demoeratic Liberal Party) in lois, but witharew from
that party with former Prime Minister Asr TDA Hitoshi
an
to Join the Demooratle Party before tho coneral
of April 1947.
Mr. Kojima is convineed bm t e Demoerotie Party
will be permanontly oplit ao o pon lt of to efforts
of its president, Mr. Tin..I Ken, to effoet a coalition
with the Demooratie Liboral Party us a veonlt of which
two Demoorarmhuve joined the Ca Liet of Prime Minister
YOShIDA Shlgerug Aecording to r Yoji pluns for such
a coalitlon arrangement wore r de berore the election
because Mr. Yoshida wes ti on net sure of how strong a
position he would win in the eloetion. u beeauso
Mr. Inukai was afraid thut if the Demooratie Party
remained outside the Cabinet it vould have iffioulty
in securing adequate finanelal mun ort At the sume time,
Mr. Kojima avers that Ir. Tnukul lu naturally attracted
by power. and ultimatel. hopes to succeed n. Yoshida as
president of the Demoorutic Liberul Party. Being
affiliated with the Ashidu fuction in the Demooratio Party
Mr. Kojima has an obvious dislike for Mr. Inukai, whom
he considers an opportunist always secking to align
A1
himself with power and money.
enti
Mr. Kojima
巴
69
g0
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION COPY
OR
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's Despatoh No. 166,
March 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Mr. Kojima described in some detail the methods
by which the Democratic Liberal Party assisted Demooratio
Party members of the Inukai faction in the January 23
election. In the third distriet of Fukuoka the Democratio
Liberal Party, according to Mr. Kojima, also succeeded
in bringing about the defeat of Mr. MaRalaSHI Wataru
(Ashida faction Democrat) by supporting the candidacy
of Mr. SAkaI Haruo who ran officially as a candidate of
the Peoples Cooperative Party.
In commenting on the seins seored by comunnist
candidates in the January election, Ir Kojins expressed
temheri that the most powerrul weapon in the communist
campaign was the party's method of appealiny to ve rs
on the tax question, and the clever ma mer by whicn
communist "tax adjusters" were spnaremtly aule to secure
tax reductions for snall businessme Ii Kojis slso
believes that the comunists have b ho eams peuched
the peak of their streneth ami th t in the ext House of
Councillors election in l9g) they will make sdlitional
gains.
The poor showine of the Denoorepie Party is
attributed by Mr. Kojima to its participation in the
coalition Katayama and hshids sabirete Mhile these
coalition cabinets were in porer they  ere foreed to
assume responsibility, in the eyes of tre peorle, for
the enforemmoerer polleies whieh  ere in cact the
polieies of General Headguartorr pt or an those of the
two parties. Mr. Kogim epresso Fe bel tof tlt Ccenersl
Headquarters should horearpar ll moune tt 
partfeuler poliey is Hed 
accordingly be carried out nd it i t on ua to
day interferenee" In Ju  ne pots tee, pllowle bra
Japanese to work cut thelr dotoilen wo  s wio tho
broad framework of ov r I Te ireet ivee
(this Mission's despate). no
1049)
Mr. Kojims strouely fol   soerle Party
should not participate in  o n  advoeates
concentratine on efforts to bld no loenl part ors nlzo-
tion and to cooperate as muck  posslble  'mr the Joolal
Deoer tisarty Mr KoJlma  vrown c  independent
rofefor the Demoeratie Party are or ppoe aterest.
He believes that eventually he   ln per will lose
popularity end thut the 
Party partieipates in tne overn virtue of
coalitlon cabinet the protest vot i thr o to the
Socialists and the Comunirts On te ther hama. if the
Democratio Party remains utsi t, e protest
vote in the next eleotion wiil o  e t to the
Demoerats
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
Demoorats and the Sooialists with the comatunists
a much smaller share. At the same time, Mr. Rojima
that if the Democratio Party remains out side the oabis
and cooperates as an opposition party with the Sodlal
Democrats this will tend to prevent the Socialists from
gravitating toward the communists. Mr. Kojima in this
connection favors a course of action by which the
Democratie Party will move toward the left so that an
ultimate merger with the right-wing elements of the Sooial
Demooratic Party may be possible. According to Mr. Kojima
Mr. Ashida was prevented from effecting such full coopera-
tion with the Socialists becauss of oppcsition fron the
right-wing of the Demoeratic Party, as represented principally
by the Inukai faction. If the rarty mplits, as Mr. Kojima
believes is certain, and the Tnukai fuetion merges with
the Democratie Liberal Party, there will be & mmeh more
favorable atmosphere fo msinins sle ents of the
Democratie Party to cooperate closely with the Socialists.
While r. Kojina's views do uot mecessarily represent
the Democratie Party' officicl thinklam er tre uession
of politicul pealignments. the trene of ovents since the
January eleetien strongly suscests that some Hegree of
realignment is under consideratien vi thin both the
Democratic and Social Democratic perties. The uravitation
of the Inukai factien to th De ceruslu Liberel Party
and the eliminstion of sueh political manipul ters as
Narahashi through defeat in the Janu ry sleetion will
unquestlonably put what renmine of the semoerat le Party
in a more advantaseous pesition to co e to er understand-
ing with the Sociulists
 the sume bss. pre-eleetion
defections of left-winmere from  le SocLal Demeeratie
Party end the party's strenr post-eleetion stand peinst
a populer front merger w om  o po piete vill pluce
the Soeialists in e batter on o    h
rel oe voul be
standing wi th the Dererets
most edventugeous is rooudletu  ile woucs in
Japanese pelities unl ut the same ti a ptrengthen this
group os a constructive libecel op cultlon da the Diet.
It is believed however, or  to ot p-rles bondiear
confronting both the Demoe cutie ud Soeiel Demoernbie
parties ds the lee of efreetivepne ie lei
The leaderentp or fo th purtic us bron mareeterized
metnly by eave rar tr p rsoraliies
some et whom have unfertterry be coe tatd th
politieal corruption
J J
Enclosure:
Memorandum of converse ston
February 22, 1949 w1th
Kojima Tetsuzo.
Parchment Mat to Departnent.
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.81)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATIO
February 22, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject:
Democratie Party Attitude Towurd-the Coalition
Cabinet
PARTIC IPAYITS:
FoT Petsuzo (Former Denoeratic
Party Diet Rember)
Je . 
Lr. For Tetsuoy Demtls Py veber, was
eleeted to the House or Retrese ta Ives in le4e and
1947 from yogo. Fifti District (uho discy et of Yr. SAIrC
Takao) but he foilea to be re- leoto to loa9. kr Rojima
was among the ovigincl ore nisere of the Liberal Party
in l94s but he lere orot paoty alone  lt former Prime
Minister s ID Hitooh  o a e De  ercde Purty
before the 1947 eleetios.
r to ls won e ontered
politics, Br. Kojime wae  praettetre lawyer In Tokye.
He spoke frankly ou the prosent ptow tiow wi tbtn the
Democratic Party
Aong m on  t Diet ho
remains elose to e hLe w
momber.
The Coul Ltlon Cahy
he felt sure the be per te r
 no w
almost egual sroure so or
er the
Readeronfp of r. Fat Fo
oo11on
cabinet Louded by Prlme
 ot hero
who hope to retoin the 
remeinod cutsldo te coollon
ont between
Mr Youhide und r Truket o  on cobtnet
wuo wode prior to  ho elertton
b
M Yosdu dd nt      oy
In the oue of Repro  t woo not
generally known worn bbo Do te   wu
not oubmfttod to ohe purpr fop de foet fon wn l ofter
the elect don. tr Thuer I post eo fon becauce if
he remed out be ee tod
rinancial support for h ue he is,
in Mr. Kojima's opinto troetod  power
Mr. Inukai has the deu that is o can brine about
a werger of hiu faction (hle origiual plana included the
entire Democratio Party) und the Domocratic Liberal Purty
he will have an opportunity to sreeued Mr. Yoshida as
president
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.87)
Enotosure to Tokyo's
Despatoh No.166
March 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
president of the Demoeratic Liberal Party when Mr. Tomhide
retires in a few years. In Ir. Kojisa's opinion
Mr. Imwmi will never be uhle to succeed to a position
of lom ership within the Decoerutie Liberal Party. Th
she firet pl ee, Mr. Taucai is sopepely opposed within
1 beass such
10
CONAINT

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.81)
Endlosure to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 166, March 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Ashida, the Democratic Liberai Party considered it
important to defeat him. Accordingly, the Democratic
Liberal Party supported the candidacy of Ir. SakAI
Haruo who ran officially as a pandidated f rom the Peoplets
Cooperative Party, but was suprorted financially by the
Demoeratic Liberal Party. Ih Sutmi mmparently hai little
or no suppert from the People's Cooperetive Party head-
quarters or at leest the
uwrters was not aware
of his conneetions with Lhe De oovs tfe Tiberal Party. At
every competitive spoeor  so
Third D strict
of Fukuoke. Mr. Sakat poke  itely ftor Mh. Nara ashi
and devobed his aDotte tite so
en Marahashi. sSakai
obtainea cals D.oco vetes.
rfpient to
prevent ths eleetien of Mar
t, bovever,
was a rer
fll to
of the woret from
tre
post-war eried.
invitsa viel ti
a simle voke
o ntt
beeausr
win
cot atgo 
wonld be 
if or w c
beenb
Mr. Rogm o
on 
b.
In the Toe1
Daxe
assistonivi
This
tax lloblon
the opt or tm for
oup
beane
the texen
wil wl! couo
comrundet. rored
with the t ol!or
book
ered Por ol
bustne 
the ten ofrteant cn i
CONFIDE TTAL

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.94)
of Ashida. Ho was also handieappod by'la
support from his party
The Democratic Liberal Party gained genar
because in the minds of the people that party
to be in disagreement with Scap". Nr. Kojima tel
the Demoorats and Socialists were forced to take
bility, in the eyes of the people, for many redent o
policies which were in fuct the policies of. SCiP
the parties merely carried out. On this subjeot Mr
was not o iticel of SCar's policies per se. but ho tolt
that Scap should do one of t o tlings: uither announo
to the publie that a puruiculer police is a scaP polidy
and must be cerried out
raw from day-to-dey
interference in the fornulation of Japanese Governmont
policies and leave the Japanese to work out their progrem
within broad prinoiples. The present tacties of soaP
whereby the Japanese overu ent ts told privately to
sponsor a given poliey sma therefore has to assuine publid
responsibility for ies laiel tion bes wesrened the
Soclalists and the Demoerats
In a disoussion of the lari ts of a rultiple-member
oonstituenoy (such us ucw exists) as against a single-
member constitueney (sucll as tint fo election to the
United States House or Rurreuent tives), Kr. Fejima favord
the latter system. lo reele tlat the prineipal aifrioulty
of all parties, excer: the co unists. is that the parties
had too many ceniid te in  iver eleotoral distriot.
He also pointed out tlut in maay cases rivelry between
candidates from the same purty In the same diutrict was
far greater than rivelry butween conaidates fron difrerent
parties in the sune dist ie I ddition, the Demooratie
as well us the Demooratie Tiberal Farty, were not surriotontly
well-organlzed to prevent loeul candidetes from assuming
the party label end competing in the eleetion even though
party headquarters dla not
rovu or evon desire their
oandidacy.
election (one-halr or e mebers r tho ous or Councillors
are elected every three yeurs) the communiets will gain
many soats. He said at first tlt the conulunists would
eleot a representative from overy lsoriet, but later
agroed that this was orobably an exseration The
conservative parties will probably nomlnate ore thehs
one
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
one candidate in a district, while the communist
nominate only one. Mr. Kojima thinks that the comimin
have not reached the peak of their strength and that
1950 elections will see further gains for that perty
The Future of the Democratic Party
Since Mr. Kojina considers a split in the party
inevitable, his remarks on the future course of the
Democratic Party are confined to the Ashida faction,
which he hopes will retain the name "Democretic Party".
Mr. Kojime is anong those in the party who believe thet
the Democrats shoula remain cutsile the coalition, He
feels that the Democrats should concentrate on building
up their local party organization. cooperate with the
Socialists as much as possible within the Diet, and seek
to prevent a situation where the Socialists, as an
opposition party, will be drawn toward the connunists.
A very interesting diseussion ensued as to the tactics
of building up local party organization and Mr. Kojima
was interested in various techniques used in the United
States and England. Kr. Kojima thinks that if the entire
Democratic Party joins the coalition then in the next
election both the Democratic and the Democratic Liberal
Party will lose votes and these votes will go in part
to the Socialists, but more important the protest votes
will also strengthen the position of communis ts. On the
other hand, if the Demoerats remain outside the coalition,
the protest votes against the Democratie Liberal Party
in the next election will go in large pert to the Democrats
and Socialists with the communists receiving a smaller
pereentage of this vote
Within the Ashida feetion r TonmBtonI Gizo has
assumed aetive leadersnip. sinee Mr. Ashida is remain-
ing auiet until after his trial Seeond to Tomabechi
is Mr. KITAtaURA Tokuturo who is becoming an inereasingly
important figure in the party. Mitamura is  relatively
new man in polities, having been elacted to the Diet
for the first time in l94e but he has guined considerable
personal popularity within the parey, lthough he still
lacks a strong position in the local sreas.
Mr. Kojima personally f vors  course of action
in which the Democratic Farty will move toward the left
seeking a firmer allienee with the right-wing Socialists.
Mr. Ashida was prevented from cooperating more fully with
the Socialists on matters or pelisy because of the strong
opposition from the right-wing fuction within his own
party, but since the bulk of this opposition sroup has
now gone over to Inukai. Mr. Kojima thinks it is now
possible for the Demooratic Party to cooperate more closely
with the Socialists. He considers the eventual amalgamation
of the Ashida faction and the right-wing Socialists
desirable, but he admits that this is not possible in
the immediate future. Meanwhile, he considers it better
for both the Demoorats and the Socialists to remain outside
the government.
kaaotion
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.89)
Reaction to Mr.Royali's ptateents
Mr. Kojima discussed very briefly hie
and the reactions of others to the reports
to Mr. Royall in en off-the-record press confe
Leaving aside the uestion of what Vr. Royali ail
did not say, r. Kojima felt that the reports oreabody
consi der ble doubt iu the  inds of many Jupanese anuth
pointed out toat trhe co unists cre ulreedy making
politicsl cepitul o t or to purmorted remarke, and in
his o inion thuy vill contiare te use these renorts for
their own befit
COT

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.94)
INTELNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEORAPH CORPORATION
MAY 3 - 1949
67 BROAD STREET, NEW YORK 4, N. Y.
DIVISION OF
DIVIEION OF
FFICE OF
NORTHEASTAN AFPAIRS
 EASTERN AFFAIRS
AFR-41949
1949
DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
Mr. . malton butterworin
Director, Office or Far Eastern Affairs
Room lsz, New State Department Builuing
Tashing ton x5, D. C.
Dear Mr. Butterwor tn:
894.00/3-3149
Please find enclosed excerpts from
Monthly Reports received from our overseas subsidiaries
and associated companies, which may prove of interest
to your office.
Sincerely yours,
CS/A
Leonard Jagob II
VicePresident
MAY 3 - 1949
6
DCB · NE Unit
FILD
3
Cit
146922
3
Dist

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.94)
JANUARY 1949 REPORT FROM
JAPAN
POLITICAL SITUATION
The general election of the new House of Representatives n tue national
revier of qualifications of the Supreme Court Justices were held on Jan. 23
simultaneously throughout te country.
As the result of the voting, the landslide victory had been won by the
Democratic-Liberal Party ant sweeping rise by the Communist Party. Conspiouous was
the notewortay decline mede by the Sociel Democrttic Party, Demooratic Party and the
People's Cooperative Party tho took the so-called midale-of-the-rond policies upon
the basis of their coalition. Thus the Jiponese yeople has ranted the definite
leadership to the Domocratic-Liberul Purty as the next c binet-forning party by
giving it the mojority of voces.
The cbstention rate aas 30% throughout the co.ntry.
The number of the nesly electod of euch purty is shown as follows-
Democratic-Liberal
204
Democratic
68
Social-Democr:ts
49
Communists
35
People's Cooperetivot
14
Others
36
Total
465
An ennouncement hee been maue by Publie Rel bront Seotion, C.i. on
Jan. 14 thet a new directive issued to the Japanese Governsrnt bro a ned the scope
of busine s activities of foreigner: una llored linitec invistaint: nd cquisition
of business properties in Jipan by whicn they pight contribute to the Japanese
economic ren:bilit tion.
ScAp offici.ls said that nthis action take: e new step towerc the restora-
tion of Japan's normal internc tional economic relationshlpt and Lastens the achieve-
ment of a self-sustaining economy".
The new reguletions place post-war commerci:i entr nt on an eyual footing
with non-Japenese who have continuously resided in Japen since September 2,1945;
except for property transactions, on un e ual ond non-discriminative basis with
Japenese nationals and firms.
The directive requires non-Japanese commercial firns nd persons to secure
ScAP's and Japanese Government's validations for acquirine Jepunese reil estate for
business purpose, stocks and shares, rights to ε portion of the profits, sules or
output of a Japanese firm, patents of Japanese origin, etc.
MAN11049

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
JANUARY 1949 REPORT PROM JAPAN CONTINUED:
Decisions on SCAP validations will be recommended by a newly
established seven-men Foreign Iuvestment Board, headed ty Maj. Gen. William
F. Marquat, Chief of SCAP's Economic and Scientific Section. However, those
acquiring the lana and buildings for their own residential use are required
only to report the offect to the Foreign Inve:tment Board.
An announcement hau been mace by Public Relations Section, G,H.Q.
on Jan. 31 that the rcoponing of controlled ecurities exchange busino
in Japan will be approved s on additional measure for the purpose of accelera-
ting economic recovery progr m now in progress.
The Supreme Commanderts action was & realizatien oi nis policy announced
more than a year ago to the Jepanese, that permission to operate a controlled
stock exchange woula be iven when whe economic luvel sufriclent to support u
internationel exchange rate 1or the yen htu been esttblisheu or reatonably attained.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.96)
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
Dear Bill:
I was a little disturbed by your airgram Mo. 42,
February 18, 1949, and by a point which was made 1n ome
of your recent diapatches written by Spinks. The state»
ment in the diepatoh as best I recall it implied that it
was desir ble that government in Japan alternate between
is the last sentence. It seems to me that we would be.
Document Must
forgetting Japanese political tradition and possibly not
working in our own best interest if we were to favor a
single party's absorbing all non-socialist and non-
Communist elements in Japan. Such a party would, I am
sure you will agree, 1nclude or appeal to the vast majority
of the Japanese and if upon becoming dissatisfied with the 8
party in power the electorate could only turn to a soolalist0
or Communlst party I question whether the best interests
of the United States would be served. It seems to me that
it would be far better if the eleotorate oould ghoose
00/4-449
between two parties, neither: of whioh embraced socialist
or Communist principles.
I would be much interested in having your own peraonal
views on this 1mportant question, because you are much
closer to the political scene 1n Japan.
Sincerely yours,
894.00
Max W. Bishop
DC/R
Anal.
H
h
Rev-----The Honorable
-449
William J. Sebald,
Oat
Acting United States Political
Adviser for Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
dOc
/G·DIVISION OF
for Japan
1949
No. 209
Tokyo, April 7, 1949.
RESTRIOTED
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
(For Department Use Only)
Subjeot: Potition of HATOYAMA Iohiro For Re-Soreening.
REG'D
APR.15
The Aoting Politioal Adviser has the honor to
ACTION
transmit to the Department a copy of a petition
FE
addressed to the Supreme Commander by Mr. HAToYAMA
Iohiro, former politioal leader, who has been dis-
INFO
894.00/4-779
qualiried from holding public office.
DOR
OLI
Acoording to Mr. Hatoyama's petition, he appealed
to the Japanese Government for reconsideration of his
case in March l947, but since this appeal was never
answered and sinoe SCAPIN 919 of May 3, 1946 stated
that he had been purged from publio office on direotion
of General Headquarters, Mr. Hatoyama has directed
his seoond appeal to the Supreme Commander.
Mr. Hatoyama's second petition recapitulates
the points he presented in the first petition and
requests the Supreme Commander to reconsider his case.
Enolosure:
Petition from Hatoyame
Iohiro (single oopy)
gwm
Parohment Mat to Department
321.6
Confidential
QNSpinke:mhp
JUN 7 1949
RESTRIOTED
FILID
ACTION  COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTIONLTAKEN.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.96)
D-709Tokys
-1-
13. February, 1949.
TO:
Generel Dougles MaoArthur,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
FROM:
Tchiro Hatoyama
CURrFCT: econd Tetition for Re-Soreening of My Politioal
Turge
In Maroh, 1947, the undersigned, Ichiro Hatoyama, submit-
ted a retition to the them Tremier Shigeru Yoshide, head of the
Japenese Cov-rnment Re-Screening Committee, for re-examination
of my politicel purge. This previous appeal of mine was never
answered by the Japanese Covernment, end since saArI 919 dated
3 May, 1946, stated that I hed been purged from pablic ofrioe
ry the dir-ct sction of your Heedquerters, T considered it more
appropriete ot oppeel to you directly. I am submitting this
petition to you now with the hore that more information concerning
my politicel ectivities hss been aveilable to you end your Head-
quarters durine the three years and s helf of Cccupation, whioh
might be of use in reconsidering my csse, and that I shell be
released from my politicel rurce by your frir end tmpertial Judg-
.ment.
In my previous a hundred end thirty paye petition to the
Tapanese covernment datec 17 tareh, l946, fully eppender and
further suprlemented with a rifty vese reppoduetlon of my dieries
during 1938 to 1942, T trien to c1syrove cech of the charges of
my politicel puree. oint by point,  verified in the eppeal
that evidences cited in your  emorandu of 3 Me, 1946, were
either felse or misinteriretatlon. I should like to repeat them
here agein for your convenience in reviewinr my case.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
(1) Your Momorandum first oharged me for my sharing rempomsi-
bility for the formulation and promulgation without Diet approval
of amendments to the so-called Feace Treservation Law of lo
as Chief Seoretary of the Tanaka Cabinet from 1927 to 1929. To
this, I submitted as counter-evidence that I did mot take part
in the formulation and promulgation of this legislation. In
fact, the original draft of the amendment does not carry my
personal seal es can be evidenced by Japenese Covernment records.
If I hed been as influentiel and erdent an advocate of this
legislation as alleged in the c/r Memorandum, I would certainly
have fixed my seel to the order and olaimed as muoh credit for
the seme es rossible.
(2) The second charre wes thet T wss responsible for stifl-
ing freedom of speech in the schools by means of mass dismissels
and arrests of teechers suspectes of "leftist" leanings and
"dengerous thoughts" end the uismissal of  rofessor Tekigewe in
May, 1933 from the fuoulty of the  yoto University es. inister
of vducetion from  evemver, 1931 to  areh, 1934. Tn  previous
petition T proved that  mees dis iseels end arrests of teeohers"
et that time poncerned only "een unistie primary sehool teschers
in Nagano "refecture ane the sosion wes token by the refectural
Covernor under the Mone intster, ane not under the inister of
Fducation.
s to the cismissal of roressor Tekigewe, I edmit
thet T removed him from the f culty in order not to let him
take lesd of the young studente, the reason beinr thet he wes
then a Jommuniet es is provec by the appendee offictel records of
my firat petition. ( es ririnrl petition  aves l0-15 and ep-
pendix 7 of the same.)

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
(3) The directive then charged me for partioipating in the
"foroed dissolution of fermer-labor bodies" and indorsement of
.totelitarianism in its application to the "regimentation and.
control of lebor" under the Tanaka Cabinet. In my proyious pe-
tition, I proved that this wes not true. The diseolution was
ordered by the Mome Minister in April, 1929, to the Communist
elements which hed then permeated into fermer-lebor movement,
and it was en event not under my officiel iurisdiction. There
is absolutely no evidence that as Chief Secretary of the Cebinet,
I exercised personal or potiticel influence to accomplish the
dissolution. I further expleined thet such suppression under the
Taneka Cebinet wes only directed et the Com unists, and true
end legitimete fermer-labor movements geined strength steadily
from 1927 to 1935.
e to your next charge on "repimentetion
and control" of labor, T rointed cut thet it wes e complete
misrepresentetion.
(4)
) In your  emorendus, a fer remsaves were cited from meverel
chapters of my 3e9 pere bool Yisere of the orld (lekat no
Keo), publlsheo in 193, to Indicate intentionelly my friendly
attitude towere Fezism, maairins the  ermen labor syatim and
supportine the sis of Tapen in Chins. to these charges, I
appealed in my previous petition that, ig cormenting a book
of this nature, one raseare shoule orfset another end shoule not
be taken cut or context.
 The couplete effeot of the hook is
decidedly in the negetive. I peinted out perticulerly thet the
citation on the cermen labor system ves e vrest misinterpreteion
of the oricinel meenins.
1

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
-4
(5) Finally, I was charged for my formal address mailed to my
constituents at the time of the 1942 eleotion. As is she same
1n the case of the above-mentioned book, I stressed in my plem
thet this also should be considered in its total merit of the
whole contents and not by a few passages oited out of oontext.
For this reason, T appended the full text of the eddress to my
previous petition. I also appealed that the ebnormel oiroumstanoes
of the wer et the time of the election should be teken into consider-
ation in evaluating the contents of the address. To take this
address st its face velue without real knowledge of Jepan's war-
time politios 1s e much too severe and superfioiel interpretation
of the event.
the fact thet the Toio Cabinet suppressed me and
my associates et the election explains fully my politicel.
position durinr the wer.
To my previous plee, T srrendeu 15 counter-evicences from
verified sources, fully cisproving esch of the evidences cited
in your purge cirective. In scdition I filed es surplimentery
counter-evidence y disries curins 1933 to 1942 to show, in e
generel wey, thet my fundementel relitical idess end attitudes
do not positively rell under lete ory vo" or er rn sso purge
direotive.
In the present ples, T wian to produce edditional infor-
mation to further rrove thet T am not "one of those wno deceived
and misled the pecrle of Tepar inte militeriatio miscaventure".
I heve been e convinoed libersliet anc  perllenanterlon ell
throushout my pest politicel careor. T reel th t 7 must ret
rid of tois vresent "trep ine" whiet the Conaunicts hed ployed
on me three years ego.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
-5-
I can, of course, fully apprecists your most dirriouls
task you have shouldered during the past three and e half years
in oocupying e strange country amidst the turmoil of defeat of the
war. Aut after thess yeers, I believe thet many details of Japan's
past, muddied and unoertein in 1946 when I was barred from
publio life throush your eotion, are now better known to you
and your Hesuquerters today. Tt 1s my sincere hope and belier
that by now verious seotions of your Heedquarters have eccumu-
lated new and sdditionel informetfons which will substentiate
my previous eppeal. I shell herewith submit for your con-
venience some additionel remerks vhich might be of velue to
you in evelusting end reviewins uy case concerning my ettitude
and opinion prior to end ouring the wer.
TTPO TAR
(1) During the Becond onoe Osbinet (1733-1939), 1t ves my
opinion thet if apen plunged into aer with merice end Ynglend.
it will eventuslly ruin us.  was opposed to everythine that
would leed ua to wer.  tried to ster every chsnee whenever it
came. This wer y publioly hnown attituce.
For this reesen, I cabled to once from Toncon, ee will be
more fully desoribed leter, to send Tepanese Delerntton to the
Nine power Conference ot Prussel in 193s so thet they could telk
over metters with the other powers to settle the thinese problems.
otherwise, I thought, the ohine Tnoident would eventually
develop into e full-ses le wer with cther powers. For the seme
roason, I cpposee in the iet the so-celled "emerseney"

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
legislasioms, imeluding the Mebilisatiem Aes 
weat from bad to worse.
I called on Wakatsuki in Pebruary, 1941, and speke to mim
about the danger for our country if she gets involved ia a
world war II, about the impossibility of Japen to have the upper
hand in her fight with Amerioa and England and told Wakatsuki
that he should work to replace Konoe with Ugaki to elean-up
the Army with Mazaki as its head. .He agreed. Then, I em-
couraged him to appeal directly to the Throne about this. Ho
said ir Okade (ex-fremier) shares this view, both will comfer
and take a proper action.
Upon returnine from Wakatsuki's home, I immediately tele-
phoned Okede for an appointment.. He promised to see me at
10 a.m. the following morning. T told him exaotly the mame
story as I told ekatsuki. Ckada positively asaured me that
danger of wer is my groundless epprehension and is entirely
without bese. He asserted thet since the whole Navy is against
1t. there never will be a wer. Naturelly, I hed to stop my
talk there.
But I further went on with my plen. My diery tells that
on 19 May, I called on Privy Counoil's Chairmen Hara and, after
telline him the whole story, demanded him to epreal directly to
the Throne in his capecity as the Chairmen of the Frivy Counoil.
However, Hare told me thet his Iosition was not so powerful as
I assumed it to be end thorefore he could not ect in suoh a
capaoity. During my conversetion with him, I remember I even

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.94)
ueed véesent epreestens for hie sesseless
effietel responsibélity, while he eetully resevee
sure bosh wakatsuk1 and Okeds remember our ceaversetiems.
Probebly the present Fremier Yoshids remembere the whole stasy
better, because my visits to Wakatsuki, Okede and Mare, in fest,
had originated in my consultation with Yoshida.
(2) In 1938, Se1yukai split. At that time, the Army's power
hed already infiltrated into politics. There were, emen emome
Seiyukai members, pro-militarists and the Army's cat-pews.
Chikuhe1 Nakelima (ex-airoraft manufacturer and wartime Mimister
of Munitions) headed these groupe. "is advocacy wes thet "Jepes
should first advanco to ingapore ana next to the Moditerremeen!"
The Fresident of Seiyukai then was Kisaburo Suzuki, my
brother-in-lew and ex-inister of Justice. Recause of his poor
health, at that time, the party was operated by a Board of
Counoillors consisted of four members. They were Yonozo Mmode,
Toshio Shimade, Chikuhei Make lime and myself and T was the
top momber. Tn the event uzut i resianed, T was expeoted to
become his suocessor. Put, during my abaenoe abroad, Maede
and Nakajime were et work to throw ne out or the party when
T returmed from abroad.
It wes a fight for residency between Naka ime and my-
self. T suggested to decide by voting. The three other
counoillors first opposed it, because more members were in my
fevor. A month later, after they hed sucoeeded in "buying
up" the votes, they in turn proposed voting. This time, I

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.94)
veteed, beeeuse I shought it wes mes fess play.
asien developed to my disadventege. Iemire Kome,
rakasawe, Yasutame Fujio and others came to me 
meminate Kuhara as candidate and beck him up ta beet
I wishdrew my condideoy, not wishing to diselose the foelt
and dirtiness of the struggle within the party. In me
I even ignored the strong opposition to my resigmatiem 
of the senior members, Chuzo Mitsuchi and Kenkioh1 Yomhimems.
who knew what kind of a man Kuhare was. In osher worse
break-up wes e fight between Fro-militarists and perliem
tarlans among Seiyukei members. Nake ima represented..the. Siret
group and I represented bhe second group. ut Kuhara finally
advocated the "disaolution of politicel perties" and flats
to the militerists.
I retired from taking an sotive part 1n politios in 1938
when I saw that all the pol!tical parties wore busy in toadying.
to the Army, fearins the power of the militarists. This wee
 well-known faot then. At that time, -iJun Ando, Hitoshi
Ashide, Ptsufiro  ehera, Tsuruhei 'atsuno, anboku Onc, JoJu
Hayashi, Koiohi Seko, Toyoichi Ishizuka, Hatsutaro Haraguohi,
Chokiehi Miyawaki, Yenkichi Yoshizawe, Chuzo Mitauchi and
othor took my side. hen this became known, many ersons aame
to mo, advising me to "ehange my coet". Among then were two
Journalists, Kobayashi of Tokyc Mich! Niohi and Nanekate of
Kokumin Shimbun, who were particularly eager in perauading me
to conform with the changing tide of the tinme. I made olear to
all of them thet T hed no intention of fooling myselr by. going
beok to active politics sgein. T heer that roteyeshi is now

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
living in Kagowe Prefeeture, but I de mes hnow
of Mamekete. (Refer Appeadix F)
(3) My fight with the pro-militeristie members of shp
may be dated beck to the formation of the Showe Domel (m
League), the original oredle of the Japanese pate
In these early deys, my fight was against the Paseist elemmss
of the Seiyukai party.
Showa Domei was formec by ex-Selyukai members whe abomomed
the party to oin the Ckeda Cabinet (1934-1936). Thay 1malmsed
Takejiro Tokonam!, Tatsunesuke Yamazaki, Shinya Uehida md esheas
who had a tacit understending with the so-called "new hureomerase"
then gaining influerce under aito and Ckade administrmtieme.
Through them, the Showe Domie came into close conteot, with the
Ay.
As has teen montloned ebove, the sc-celled "new bureeuorete"
wore fostered under the administration of hoth Saito and Okade.
Thoy steadily geined strength baoked un by powerful men like
Kurahe1 Yuase, Taklo Tzewe and others and in olose tie up wish
the Army Taction represented by retsuzan Nagata, Tolo's
predecessor. Tater, the "new bureeucrets" oleverly mede the
best use of younp peers anc influential court vassals like
Konoe and Kido, thus rapidly buildinp up Fasoism in Tapan.
undor the pretext of a "natlonal roforn", they worked on, out-
wardly to expand militery activities in Chine, and inwardly
to strengthen covernment controls in oruer to pave the way for
the comine national mobilization.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
 à er er the saite cabinet (2919)
agaiast their grewing iafluemee. When the Cheée
fermed, I insisted so stand in opposition. but as hes be
stated above, Tokonaal, Yamesaki, Uohide asd others were
termized to join Okada, and broke off with Seiyukai, and ah
the Showe Domie was forned. After Konoe came im power.
members followed them, flattering the milisery olique end
"mew bureauorats". Naka ima, Meede and othermcof the Makajim
feotiom were among them. Finally, Kuhara and his cliqme followed,
thus leeving only my associates and myselr a minority eroup in
the perty. At any rate, we stuok to the lest for Parliamemtasiam-
iam. These ere all publioly known frots reedily verifiable with
butside souroes.
(4) As to my relation with the Yokusan ei ikai (Politioal
Rule Assiatance Assnoiation); it is tolo that my name me onee
listed and later struck off. ut the truth is thet I nover did
take any rrooedure ror earcllment witn the Assooietion.
At that time, shics and Tiro Hoshi 'ima had the intention
of joining the Assooiation. te held 8 r kokai moeting to deoide
whether w should 'oin the 'ssooiatlon or not. ith tears in
their eyes, Ashida and toshiiima doclareu that they would end
thoir long politioal parthership ir I did not foin. The following
morning, Ando called up all the rokokal mombers to gether at my
Otowe house in Tokyo to continue the disoussion. I still refused
to Join. Around noon time, Ashida and Roshijima :ft my house
for onrollment, saying thet the time-limit wes running out.
To my surprise and Ando's, who came to see me ag in, the
dey's evening pajers reported my Joining the Ansociation. As

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.95)
for eelf, I mover sent out he rellment e.
shat sinse besh Ashide and Meshi fime heve been y
for ages, they.probebly told the press is their dim
so doing, they may have thought that they had done me sooe.
above story has been fully deseribed in the eppendix of my
previous appeal. Since I had all but resired from Dies Dusies. I
did not even know of' the alleged nembership until I wes purged.
It is moreover absolutely oertain that I never held purgeable
office or attended any business of the essocietion.
(5) On 20 Cotober, 1937, I cebled from London to the Japanese
Government; advisine them to send e delegation from Japen to
the Nine Tower Conferenoe which was to be held at Brussel for
the pmrpome of debatine on Jepen's action in Chine. During my
stay in London that yeer, T talked with many British Government
reprosentetives, businessmen end othere, end from the informetion
and opinions T acounulated, I belioved that by talking the whole
matter over with other powers, Tepan could terminate the Chine
Inoident at an earliest possible chsnce and avoii any future armed
confliot with Americe and ngland. Thus I proposed that Japen
should 'oin the Conferenoe. Infortunately, the Japanese Covernment
did not accept my proposel and simply ignored the Confarence.
T remember e painful experienoe during my stay in Iondon. One
day, I met the British Foreign inister Anthony Eden at the Tarliament,
mocompenied by the present remier voshide. Just when I was explein-
Ing to him thet the me ior'ty of the Tapanose people are hoping
Anglo-Japenese friendship, he showed me a cable from Tokyo with an
opposite effect reporting an Anti-Pritish relly et vibiya Park in
Tokyo. He said he hed 'ust receive the cable and told me that

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.94)
I ssured méem shat I could mot believe is and h
the perty mmmbers were friendly to Englaad. when I meid me
aid mot lie to myself; I believed it. Aut to y deepest resres,
situation later on developed in the other diredtion, she majerity 
the party members cining the pro-military faction.
(6) A rumor had been widely cireuleted, when I wam returning home
from abroad in webruary, l939, that the rightists and militarists
would prevent my coming on shore at Yokoheue. My wife had.traveled
as far as Mawaii to neet me, tringing with her many private letters
from my friends, all sending s red signal. The rumor apparently
had originated in my proposal, as hes teen desoribed already, to
sond Japanese Deleration to the  ine oner Conforence. Portumate-
ly, nothing. of the vort hel rendd as  was closely proteoted and
guarded by my associetes, xcert that some risntists handed 
an impeacnment lettar at  yo tation.
(7) Amone the bills suomitted to the  et by the Army while I
was abroad wes the Neti ne! otilizntion Iaw. This bill restrioted
the freedom of the reople nost efrectiv-ly and recuced the funotion
of the Dtet. When T returned fro: r." trip abroad in 193a, ny
assoolates informed me f the reesons for oprosing the above law
in the cebin of the hichibu-Moru.  afreed with them and derinte-
ly opposed to the bill. n the same day of my return, I presented
this view of mine at the let building to the tnen  remier Konoe,
who tols me that he also was of the same opinion. y oolleague
Ryozo Makino made a speech in orrcsition to this same law at the
Committee Meetin, but in spite of the ma 'ority's suprort of his

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.92)
seeeh, the ball pessed the plet élmest
suppressies by the Geveramsnt. Ny ascoeletes
who eetually voted againss it. Koieni Seko ean verisg
stasemoss,
(8) My assoclates end I were agsinst the 1939 miiitary pess mish
Oermany and Itely. The present  remier Yoshide end I shared the
same view that it would endanger Tapan's reletion with the Sovies,
as I des eribed in my diary 3 pebruary, 193%. to qete fiom
my diary of 2 pr1l, 1930:
"Shunkiohi leda (present rirector-in-Chief of the Board of
Justice) told me the story told 1n by retmuzo atanebe, (prosomt
President or Toho tudios). "atanabe net Eome Minister Kido
sometime ago end warned yido alout the danger of the tri-power
allitery peot in oase of e head-on cispute with the third power
or powers. rido replied that he coult not understand it.
Ambassedors Canime and hiretori are cominp home, ignoring the
Govermment's instruotions and upon their return, a new military
cabinet will be fcrned. s a result, e paot on vague temms will
be inovitebly signed. it is this wenkress and the irreaponsi-
bility of Fido's trat hes thrown Jepan into the rresent plight
and griof. e are sick of this irres cnsible er slcony ruline".
In y diary of 15 Tenuary, 194), I worte
"Those who are alemorins for erman military pact or Russo-Japaneee
non-aggression pect always samble matters and decide matters for
self-interest."
Further my diary of 22 January, 1940 says:
"such lecture as hiratori's is e produot of this stormy worad,
this revolutionery eir of the time of Terror."

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.93)
y asay ef 3 robruary, 19so, shene thas 2
astion of the Chsirman of the Diet in pumiehins
he edmonished my assoeiates to leave the perty for vesine she
blue-ballot. My position is olearly reveeled by the feet shas
the omly Seiyukai members who voted to support Saito were y
intimate colleagues.
(l0) niaries or the following dated show my opinlon and ettisude
towerd Yonoe's "How roliticel (ystem" anu Taise1 Yokusankei (IRAA).
=7 August, 1940
7 ctober, 1940
15
ctober, 1940
27
tobr, 194
5 January, 1941
22 -ebruery, 1941
(Rerer ppendix:)
(11) "hat T wes most interrsted ir durins my tenure of office
s the Minister of 7ducat1on (December 1931-March 1934) waa
publio educetion. Tmyrovement of ay-rolls for primary sohool
toaohors and personel inspecticn of educetion facillties by the
Emperor were two of the meesurrs. T institutec to stress the
importanoe of publlo education. It is beyond imagination how
the primery schorl teechers all over the ocuntry were encoureged
and reloloed over these steps. Formation of the Netionel
Convention of Teachers was another ster. I attended its meeting.
In Sondai, Nafasaki, Tokyo, sake, isata, Cumma ana other pleces,
I spoke at their meetinfs on the 1  rtance of civil eduoation,

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.94)
reponstbiliey of she sesssere, eduesséen of
freteraity, the spisas of feir-pley and en the pris
demoeraey. I should imagine shet she lecel pepere 
reports of my views expressed at those meetings.
Shimokawe (then President of the Natiomal Conventiom of
successor) of Tokyo know well about my idve and also w he..
teachers felt about it. Even efter my resignation, I somsimmlly
attended their meetings for sbout two years. mut the dimsolutiem
of the Convention wes later ordered by the Japanese Government
under the pressure of the Army.
(12) what ? regret most is that I could not put into offeot 
pro!oct for improvinp the normel sohool eduoation, for whieh I
had approprieted e fund or * 4, 000, 000 in 1934 prior to my
resignation. T arpropriated this rund for the purpose of teaohing
at all normal schools the history enu rinciples of domocrecy in
order to let them udderstend why e demccratio gcvernment is
moothly operated in America end Fngiand, but not in other countrios.
(13) T encoureged all kinds of srorts durine my adninistration.
Poople oalled me the  inister of ports". o parliamentary
government can be operated vithout the spirit of feir play,
whioh is best demonstreted in uports. urins v term of efrice,
T wrote a bock on sports titled tory on ports (ports  Kataru).
(14) Recause of my stubborn oprosition to Communlsm, T have been,
in some cases misuncerstcod and mlstreated as ar anti-iiberellst.
T heve read a sreat nulber of bocks on oviet's polities, her waye

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.93)
people and en tae perseael cherecter ef Baslts.
mede me. e firm anti-cemmunist. the tesehing of
Meneius alse might have had some iaflwesee em me.
expressed this stsstude of miae elearly to the pubt
ago during tho Kome1 Kato Cabinet (1924-1925) at the Dms
Committee when I questioned the Fremier Komei Kato ehe
Third Intermationel. This oan be veriried in the ssemosm
records of the Committee. Soon after I esteblished she Libera
Party, I made publio my "Anti-Communist Statement" whiéh cameen
quite e sensation at thet time. This is a. well-known fmot.
I am not  "new" Anti-Comwmunist. All my constituents and frio
know well how long i have been consistently working for * smooth
operetion of a democratio perlianentary system. Tt is my greatest
rogret that T am reperced in the same lirht with those who suddenly
bogen to speal loudly o: democracy after the wer ended.
(15) one dey in 1937, hunkicht ecn (prosent Lirector-in-Chier
of the Poerd or ust:ce inforned ne thet he hed found "terrible
dooumonts in the sefe of the lenning oard of the Japanese
covernment.person employed  th- Roard through his recommondatiom
brought them to bim. leda seid he wcrkeu three days and nighte to
copy all the pa: ers. The cocuments contained coteiled plane for
the "politioel and economicel reforms of Japen". The reforms
were designed to ake Japan s lou per cent Comsunistio country.
noth lede and I kept this a seoret then, but a few years leter,
Uode told 1t to Fonoe, "iranume, Tkeda, aketsuk!, kade, Hare and
some others. escovery of treee rlans had convinoed me that there
were  poon meny numters of co munists in the /ray and that thoy
were quite powerful in tne oreenizations. T cennct forpet ebout

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.91)
-17
this aad I still believe shes the Commiste hav
leading role in dragging Japan into the Pesifie Was.
further assured my pessimiem thet Japas was fighsins a
losing wer. Twamure, former Minister of Justiee, teld
Ridemi Czaki, leading Communist in Japan, stamped with
just before his death thet ho could not celetrete Japem's es
at Hibiye ark: Vede, Iwabuchi and Iwaaura will be eble ta
substantiate the ebove story.
(16) I should like to oite here one more evidonoe that I
believed in denooraoy--that is, T had been a simsere advoceter
of women's suffrere since the ti e T wes the Chief Secretary of
the Tanake cabinet. Tndeed, that wes one of my prineiples when
I formed the Tiberal  erty and many leading wonen or Japan came
to exprees their epprecietion to e at that tie.
IT During the or--ihet I Phought
and het T ia
(1) y attitude toward te raise: Yolugankai (Imperdsl ule
Assistance tasociation) was alweys the scme as thet tovard its
offsprins the Yokusan Fe's: entioned efore.y conviotion
was that this ssocietien, orsanised by Fonce under the ridioulous
protext of "notionel re-uni: lertl ", wes a totol cefiance of
parlia mentary systen and sur resion or the liberel opinions. of
the minority varties. Tn s ite f y publiely-hnown view on tho
Yoausan ei iksi, T was constantly .portuned tc loir it. In
regard to it,  recoll tre follawin Inoicents.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.94)
0me éay earty 1n l942, the present Preméer
as my Karuimewe home and sold me shat Konee was
I em not iaterested in e traiter's dinmer. Obviously Temmis
told Tsuruhei Mztsuno (ex-Rallwey Minister) about is. Mataume
came soon efter Yosnide left and repeatedly advised m to go
to Fonoe's dinner if I wented to stay in politios, but I ssill
rofused.
Reveral days later, Fonoe visited my Keruizawe home at nighs
after  p.m. I told him T had several questions to ask nim and.
if he oould not give me satisfectory answers, we could not be
friends. T'esked him wny he he: oreanised the Yolusankai,
why he hed reco:nnendeu To'o, whet he meant by "national re-
unirication", where the Army was lesdirs Jupen to by what it is
doine now, wnat he considers sbout the clean-up of the irmy
and whother he really thinks it ros ible to control the young
military officers without enere! lezski es their head. Konoe
amwered eaoh question ane atayed until after 12 p.. Reoause
of several telerhone oolls, he vent bec, pronieins to continue
the oonversetions the followins day.
I called on hin to continue our telk the folloving day.
His view in short was that To'o was recommended by ido, that
he was also worried about the rmy and had orranlsed the Yokusankai
as  means to oheck the militarists, end he also favored the
1doa of having azaki to shake up the ry. s our opinione
wore the same, I saw fonoe guite often after thet.
While T continueo to see onoe, my opin1on ou the Yokusanka1
was definitely confirmee end T ceue to believe that the indeoisive,
dilly-dellying attitude and the sirong sense of fartielity of

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
Kenee ené xide wore mestly respensible for segem
the budget epproprietion for the Yokusankai in 1941. mis 
to the formation of the Dokokal of which previous memsiem h
been made. Diet records as well as political colleagues will
confirm this statement.
I haven't played golr for almost eight or nime years.
Before that, whenever I saw Fonoe or Yido et the Asake. Golf
@lub, I whispered to my weekly Bundey colf-metes such as Ryoso.
Asano, Säun Nomure, Yasuto Shudo and others that it is these mon
who would overturow our oountry sometime. I still believe, oven
today, that if the right nem wa: then ohosen for the fob, even
the fury of the niliterists cculd have been kent down.
(2) Though  did not heve very close conrection with Generel
Mazaki at that time, T xuew that he w:s strongly oprosed to the
adventures of the 'wantune fray in anorurie in suocessively
oxpending their o erations, irnorinf the cirectivee of the Japenese
covornment. I know that he had persistently insisted on the
immodiete evaouation of the Tepanes- troops frou Shanghai at
the time of the Firet Thanghsi Tncident, with the hope or having
e peaceful settlement of the Chins Tndident, ageinst the Army's
intontion to stay on there. I further knew that he hed dashed
couregeously to ston the Fwantu  rmy from swerming into North
Chine through the Tong all, ov-r-riding the poliey of the home
eovernment. For these reesons, T thoufht Cenerel "szekt was the
propor men to rule over youn nilitery offioers.
Ono day in 1943, I travelec to Tokyo from Kerauizawa to oall
on Ceneral Vazak1 and returned or the same day. It this talk,

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.93)
 J y 
hia te uee esaki if his eabinet were to be fesmd. I me
Ugaki ta the hope that he could use Masaki, w be bsa
of the war by an over-all clean-up of the Army and the crey
young offioers. At my Karuizawa home, I further comferred with
Konoe and Ugak1 on solecting candidates for the expeeted Ugaki
Cabinet members, but the plan failed due to the imdecision of
Komoe and the orposition by the Army. Both Ugaki and Mazaki
are fully acquainted vith these circunstanoes.
(3) At the Diet ler.ber's ssombly of the Yokusen 3o111tai
(only party at that time9 on 1? June durine the Diet sessiom
of 1943, T broke my lons silenoe frenkly sttaoking the wartime
Coveramont for barring the freedon or spseon of minority parties
and bennins the aisclosure of truth cbout the war. The covernment
at that time refuseu to aliow my rssocietes to speak on any
important legisletion in the plenery see ion as well as at
the committee vectinf. le the officlel wer ennruncements
diefered so much from tne infcrmetien I pathered from Yonede
of the Yomiuri Shimbun, shide, iye aki ant other sources.
In this speeen, I ohellenged thet if the Tovernment fust save
erdore and simply requested ebsclut- oredience, it is nothing
but despotiam. I stressed that they cen expect real cooperation
of the people only when they are covinoed, and that reel
cooporetion comes only from mutuel consultation based on true
faots and not fron felse reporte or suppression of speech.
All the members who attended the iet then should know this.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.92)
(thss
196), I referred to he 111s fer 
esrtses and she Counter-measure of Food
in the sefe of the Planaing Board and shat tr the chit of she
Brueau of Military Affeirs. Supprisime es is. mmy eeem. these
Bills were apperently based on the politieal rerolutiom ples
of Gommunism--that whioh absolutely demien the Diet, and the
eeamomie revolution plen of Communism--that.whieh absolutely
demies ownership. Iwabucht has a copy of it in Japanses and I
have heard that it has been trenslated into English.
(5) Those who pposed to strike Takso saito's name off the
roll of the 1et 'oined me in establishins the Dokokal in
1941. The legal bills the Dokonai opposoc wore chiefly the
Apecial. "artime riainal Code anc tre Temporery Control Iew
for Speech, ublicuticn, "eetins, ssocietion, eto. Needless
to ay, the rmy w s in the lackrrcund of theme bills.
How the Doxckel suffere unuer the cceroion of the Army
and the Covernment cun be cleeriy :ren in the l942 eleotion.
Tho malority of the oanclcetes lost cue te uniust and illegal
interferences beyond iaaginution, cnd the number of their 1et
mombers were reaucec to nine fron 3t. I presume that you are
fully informed of how completely the so-called recommoncetion
lootion neglecued the Jonsti ution und Las. hen T steted
my speech with the words, "the reconmencetion syaten is ..."
at the shibuys ublio Hsll, I wes i mediately ordered to stop.
Another time when T said, "no vou Teeple went freedom or no
freedom?" at the ubomechi rinery "chool in "ciahikew, Tokyo,
the police-men of ruard hit the floor ruriously wne shouted,

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
"Be careful, mpeaker!" My mail address barely passed by
exeluding or revising some parts of the origimal text at the
last minute. The Army end Covernment interference towerd my
assooiates in local distriots were even more severe.
(6) When the fell of Saipen was imminent in 1944, I went to
see Konoe, strongly demanding him to take an immediate aotion
to and the wer with the surrender of that island. Yonoe assured
me that en Imperiel Conference might be held in order to inform
their unanimous opinion to the Throne, es many prinoes were of
the seme view.
(7)
) My second adponition to Yonce wes to do everything to stop
the war when ingepore fell.
Vonce did not agree for the reeson
that the Army wes too errogent to listen to any peece motion and,
if the wer ended there, it will drive them further to en unoon-
trollable state of nind and conduct. hen kinawe fell, everyone
wented peace, but any such motien was bluntly ignored. My olose
associetes ere all well-informes with the story.
(8) Durine the wer, T had to spene most of the time at my ville
in Karuizawe to teke shelter fron the orpression or the rmy.
Due to the above faot, when T plimd the rost-wer hidehere
Cabinet witt questione at the ler, many of the members interfered,
celling me e "by-stender or wer." This certaialy should be with-
in the memory of the  iet member as it heppened not lons ego.
Should I still be sublect to the cherse of "dnceivinr and
misleeding the people or Japen Into militeristic misadventure"?
It hes been my consistent prinoipl- to oppose to a despotic
government, and T heve alweys done my best to esteblish
parliementienien in our country.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.93)
-23-
III Lotters from Friends
I should like to present to you a faw private lettere from
my friends, which were returned to me after the proourators
had investigatec my house in November, 1948, in the hope thet
they might throw more lisht on my position and thoughts prior to
and during the wer. The originel tert of these letters are
evaileble for your perusal if necessery.
(1)
Tetter fron Rezuo Yolime denounoing Yokuesnkei and
"xpressing Concerns Cver Tapen's Criticel Tnternntional
Pelation.
30 Aurust, 1941.
near Tchiro,
rea-boy essociation (Yokusenkei) is rerorted to be soon
orsanised by ingretlating oprortunlsts. For years, they were
pulled around by the millterisen. Fov they have shomelessly
come to fewn upon the
pay. velllanimous es thay ere, no
wonder they en set s che!
ll they can do is to make their
deolereo " emml Tttetr (rinitart nisa) a ster towere the coming
election.
veryoae l te struo wuub with satontenment if
be is tolo that suen is "the breek-dean eo the sld syetem"
end "the re-unirieeti er the peror tn powere".
Put more serlous is the internationel situr tion. This
morning's vonoe stetement tovare merioe, as I see it, is more
suiteble for "domestic consumption".
reater deneer will be
the probeble outeoue of the reeant renerel mobiltw tion. The
so-cellen herd end Feet Tron Vetionel Jolloy oun be Icentified
with the polloy of "advenee to the outh, tut slow with the
Northe, only tearorerily covered up wiuh "mnture consideration".

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
一
-24-
Therefore, if once the militarists are ready for actiom, mobody
knows when and where the second and third Mukden Inoident might
break out. The trouble is thet they are well aware of their owm
power, but know nothing of the netion's potentials. Greater
trouble is they now know they cen pull around the nation.
Cood or bad, confidence means e power. Furthermore, nobody
will dare to cheok them. Rather the whole country is trying to
ride with them. o muoh I am diepleesed end disconcented.
Yours sinoerely,
Kezuo
(2)
Tetter fron tsuliro Uehara hen a Tlen for the
Ugeki cabinet was Underway in 1943.
29 August, 1943.
Deer Tohiro,
I apree with you thet the best men to open up e way in
the present politicsl tanele is rsri. Put if Seiro Nakeno
(a long-time let member who killed himself towerd the end of
the war) participetes in the l'n, ! em arreid the plen might feil
midwey.
y frank opinion is that it Is still too early yet
for a politicel ohense or to exreet one.
the whole netion,
I belleve, will be shooked if cermany ond Italy cellapee end
thet 1s the time when we should plen  bis tuin in cur country.
That is the time we shoula sll sork out  plen to sbut out the
militarists completely from pollties. ctherwise, the future of
our country is definitely hopeless. I 
think we cen weit with-
out our country being reduced to ashes until cermany end Italy
collepee. Tf we heeten too muoh, T am efrsid there will be
more chenoes of failure. e certainly cannot shut our eyes

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
-25-
to the present deplorable conditions, but the situetion in
general has not matured yet to werrant e speedy ohenge.
Yours truly,
tsujiro
(3)
Tetter fron Shotaro Yeno, Showing His Views to the War
4 May, 1945
Dear Tohiro,
ar in Furope has come elmost to the end. This is not 
surprise. T only ceplore the misereble state of the people
governed by orazy men.
Yours,
Tho
(4) I hed severel letters or similer contents received from
Seljun Ando, expressinr sericus concerns over netionel effeire.
These have not heen quoted sine- T returned them to bim to
use in his erylicetion for his purce celeese.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
a I bava
 statodbe.
. aave
rliemmteriam all throughout my politieal
to prove
ure that meny of my old friends will be wi
infor-
evidenves siven here ere true to fects.
he above in details based on verifiable sourees will
ole for your perusel if deemed necessary er helpfum.
 deceived and misled the Japenese Jeople inte the war and
peen their sotive politioel leader aurins the wer, could it
heve been possible for myself and the Liberal rerty to win the
first post-war eleotion by the highest poll, whem all Jepen
was emotionelly embittered and dislllusioned over their
deception and misrule by the militarists? The people of Japan
are very well acqusinted with my thoughts and actions prior to
 and during the wer. If not, they voulc never have voted for
me and the Liberel arty in preferenoe to the rogress
Party.
It is my sincere hope that you will reconsider my case, after
np the evidences offerec in y present eppeel end my
retition, tosether with thet your Feadouerters must
ve eccumulated durire the pest yesrs. T an hopeful
nest udgment xlll result in my release fron the
ree ry your fair ane lupartiel ceoislon.
Irm the above to to trwe in every pertloular
noaledre.
Iohiro Hatoyama

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.88)
United States Politica
for Japan
Tokyo, April 12, 1949.
REC 'D
DC/R
APRIL 18
No. 217
AC TION
OLI ENC
UNCLASSIFIED
INFO
DCR
FE ENC
POS ENC
Subject: Transmitting Fublicstion regarding Conditions of
ITP ENC
Japan.
m
The Acting rolilie i Adviser han the honor to tranamit
herewith for the Depart nent's infernat ion five copius of a
pamphlet entitled Preent Conlitio of Japan. I. prepered
by the Japanese Forelgn uffice and piblished under date of
January 194. The pruphlet sives a cursory stetch of present
political, soclal md cult urel con litions of Japan. The in-
formatior i not a v, lut u urtain revr et is of int erest
as having meen propured y  he Ja. ane e Sovernment (for exaaple,
the purse uties  ount sovlet Union's
entry intowar pn).
Enclomre.
Five coplor of :unphlet,
Preuent Con f
5
Parchment ul to the Depnrtment.
350
Mieathorty:hh
Copyp
UNCLA D
almltoLR,crA
9-25-.69
DOr
好
148
88.
)h1l
ACTION COPY

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.95)
It weuld appear desirable to take appre
to sorrest the false impressien regarding Wal
peliey whlak has been siroulated ia Japan he
catios of this report and to assure that all
officlals of SOAp Headquarters are infermed of and gmid
by the established polioles of this Geveramemt. This is
particularly &esirable in view of the provisiens fer
the modifieasion of the purge in paragraph 13 of w3c 13/2
as approved by the N3C and the President. Zhe Depars-
ment of State would appreelate being informed whether.
the remarks attributed to Mr. Kades were aotually made
by him and, ir so, what aotion the Department of the
SECRET
Army proposes to take.
Enclosure:
Copy of artrole from
March 16, 1949.
Nippon Times.
FE:NA:NWBishop/pm
FE:JMA111son:mls

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.83)
me per ent es the peeat st
Anked if there was any subatasse to reperte t
direotive of January 4, l04s wonld be comtrolling the
Japaness Governmen't besanse SdAr was the sele exedntive
anthority in Japen. He said the direetive kmown as the
"gdarī bso" is in no way a mere revision of the Joiat
Ghiefs of Staff direstive of Wovember l9es whieh ostabliabed
the bas1e

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.89)
majerisy.
Ashed why the extreme righs
was méere
Kr. Kedes said the elestion returns whichve the
munists ss seats ia the Rouse ef Represeatasives hut 
politios."
He said the eleetion indieated a normal reactlon egaimat
the group in pewer, namely the Domeerats and the Sosial
Demoerats plus the revelations of the Showa Denko seandal
and the unfortunate split in the Social Demosratie Party
betweon the right and the left winge.
Mr. Kades said General MaeArthur's commes on the
eleetions summarized the true result. General MeeArthur
8aid

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATEB OF AME
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASHRMFIRSStates Political Advi
for Japan
MAY741849
No. 242
Tokyo, April 21, 1949
DEPARTVENT OF STATE
CONF IDENTIAL
(For Department Use Ont)
ne acTim requine
rmay 15, crvg
ing.
Subject: The Social Democratic Party's Shift to the Left.
REC D
APR 28
AGTICK
The Honorable
894.00/4-2149
FE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir:
OLI
EUR/X
I have the honor to bring to the Department's
attention the reorganization of the Social Democratic
Party at 1ts fourth national convention (March 15-17,
1949), as a result of which left wing elements have
secured virtual control of the party.
Ir. sUZUKI Mosaburo, leftist leader, was elected
Seoretary General in & substantial victory over
Mr. ASANUNA Inajiro of the right wing. For the first
time sinoe the organization of the party at the end
of the war a leftist has secured the secretary general-
ship. A new thirty-ran Central Committee has been chosen,
comprising ten right-wingers, ten left-wingers, five
neutrals, and five meabers representing the leftist
Japan Liaison Counoil of Labor Unlons (Zenroren), thus
giving the leftist a potentially preponderant pogition.
Mr. KaTaYAin Tetau was reelected party Chair an as a
compromise gesture to the right wing, but he is expected
to be over-shadowed by the more aggressive Secretary
General. The convention also voted to amend the party's
constitution to provide for e communist-style politburo
of five members, local chepters at workshop levels,
and public eleotion of the Central Executive Committee
by party members.
The results of the party's reorganization indicate
a marked inerease in the influence of labor union leaders,
including Demooratization League elements of the National
Congrese of Industrial Unions. Because of the Social
Demoorutic Party's support of the National Public Service
Law amendmant in 1948, the Leugue initially intended to
organize a labor party of its own. More recently, however,
it deoided to concentrete its attention in effecting the
reconstruction of the Sooial Demooratic Party along more
leftist lines.
The
N
FILDD
CONFIDENTIAL
6
口
M#R
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTIO TAKEN.
6

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
okyo'a Déspatch No. 24
pr11 21.1949
CONFIDENTIAL
The reconstruction of the Social Democratic Party
at the fourth national convention has thus given labor
a far stronger position in the party than it ever enjoyed
before. It is likely, therefore, that the party will
become more truly a labor party, although at the cost
of moving further to the left.
The national convention rejected the left wing's
insistence upon a "scientific socialisn", or Marxist
plank, in the party's platform. Instead, the party
has committed itself to the attainment of an equally
vague program of "social democracy" through the acquisi-
tion of power in the National Diet. To accomplish this
end, however, the convention adopted certain communist
techniques, such as closer identification with the mass
labor movement and what is virtually the cell principle
of organization at the lowest or so-called workshop
level. The party has in this way moved much closer
toward becoming a class party, clthough it has still
drawn a line against the class principles of the communists.
While the Social Demooratic Party has moved much
further toward the left, it is still considerably to the
right of the Japan Communist Party. Mr. Suzuki, the
new Seoretary General, is a thorough leftist, but of
the legal type. He has apparently drawn a certain limita-
tion beyond which he will not venture, as illustrated
by his remaining within the party last fall vwhen ultre-
leftist elements of the Kuroda faotion withdrew to form
the communist-like Labor-Farmer Party because of dis-
satisfaotion with the conservstive leadership of the
Sooialists. Like Mr. KaTo Kanju, Mr. Suzuki is not a
Marxist, and he has been as opposed to suggested mergers
with the Japan Communist Party as any of his party's
right wingers. While noted for his intellectual integrity
and with some reputation as an economic expert, Mr. Suzuki
has given little evidence of being a brilliant or particu-
larly capable political leader. His theories of socialism
laok olarity" As a politiciun, he betrays considerable
confusion in his thinking. He is anti-capitelistic
without sharing the comiunists' anti-capitalism. In
the confused middle ground between right and left, between
oapitalism and comaunism, Mr. Suzuki might well lose his
way. Desplte his anti-comcunist views, he could be easily
susceptible to a comaunist-inspired popular front movement
if it were offered in the right garb.
In moving further to the left, the Social Denocratic
Party has undoubtedly strengthened itself. It will now
be able to bid more successfully for mass labor support.
In this sense, the party may be able to counter more
effectively
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo'suespatch No.24
Apr11 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
effectively postwar communist inroads into the labor
movement, a consideration which was apparently behind
the decision of the anti-communist Demooratization
League to throw its support to the Social Demoorats
rather than attempt to create a new, "reformed" socialist
or labor, party of its own. On the other hand, the
reorganization of the Social Democratic Party will most
likely sever its connection with the more liberal elements
of the Democratic Party, the basis upon which the coalition
Katayama and Ashida cabinets were built.
The national convention of the Socialists has by
no means erased the heterogeneous, factional character
of the Social Democratic Party. Each step in the convention's
deliberations, from the election of officers to the
definitions of party policy, was marked by compromises
and adjustments between the left and right wings. But
in this process of comcromise and adjustment the center
of gravity has definitely shifted to the left, and, while
an open split between the two extremes has been evoided,
the party is still a coalition of conflicting factions.
The inoreased strength of the party's left wing
can be attrlbuted only in part to labor's larger role
in party affairs as a result of the national convention.
Equally Important is the decline in strength and prestige
of the right wing leaders. From the time the party was
organized at the cnd of the war under right wing auspices,
the rightists have been unable to provide asgressive,
dynamio loadership. Men like Katayama and Asanuma
apparently lack the political acumen end forceful
personality strong leadership demands. In s sense, most
of the Sooiul Democratio Party's leaders ore too far ahead
of their time. Japanese politics, for Il the postwar
changes, is still oharacterized by cortuin traditional,
so-oalled "feudal" aspects of leadership in which the
oya-bun, or boss, depends upon a follo iny based upon
Strong personal loyalties. Too any of the Socialist
leaders luck such strong personal followings end have
depended upon the more impersonel support of the intangible
eleotorate. At party conforenco tables and in the rough-
and-tumblo of intra-puruy strife a Jealer's personal
popularity ut the polls ls too often of less weight
than the numbor und influonce of his personal backers.
The sociul Democratio Party leader who was perhaps
best uelifled from the standpoint of the size and
strength of his personul following was Mr. EIRano Rikizo.
This former right-wins leeder, however, was disqualified
under the purge, appurently at the inatigation primarily
of General Headquarters. His disqualification deprived
the purty's right wine of its strongest and perhaps
moot able louder.
Another
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
Another important weakness of the Social Demomrmbie
Party's right wing which has been of equal benerit to
the leftists was the party's political failure whila it
was in office during the Katayame snd Ashida ooalition
cabinets. This politicel failure has seriously disorodit
right wing leadership in the eyes of the leftists and
the party's general reputation in the cyes of the electorate
as demonatrated all too clearly by the results of the last
general election.
Respectfully roura,
W. J. Bebald
Par ont u to Derteb.
350.1
CNSpinks : mhp
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
L.DIVISIOn0Fted States Political Adviser
NORTHEAST ASIADAFFAIRS
for Japan
MAY-4 90okyo, April 21, 1949
No. 243
CONFIDENTIAL
REC'D
(For Demrtment Use Only)
us.
APR. 28
AOTION
FE
Subject:
Soviet Protest Against Purge of MATSUlmOTO
Jiichiro
INFO
DOR
OLI
The Acting Politieal Adviser has the honor to
EUR1/
transmit to the Department a copy, in translation,
EUR/X
of a letter addressed to the Supreme Comaander on
April 1l, 1949 by the Soviet Meimber, Allied Council
894.00/4-2149
for Japan, protesting ageinst the purge of Lr. MATsuioTo
Jiichiro. former Vice Fresident of the House of Councillors.
The Soviet Member's letter notes that a delegation
from the National Diet delivered to him a copy of a
petition addressed to the Supreme Com ander by a humber
of trade unions, cultural organizetions, ani political
parties, requestine reconsideration of Mr. Matsumoto's
disqualification
After studying this petition, the
Soviet Member states that he is convinced the action
of the Purge Comrittee regarainy Mr Matsumoto "was
absolutely unjust and incorrect" The Soviet Member
views this action as u move by anti-demoeratic elements
to remove from political aotivity those politicians
they consider undesirable Reviewing Mr Latsunoto's
efforts on behalf of the temoeratie moven ent in postwar
Japan, the Soviet Mesber cherges that, while Mr Matsumoto
has been disqualified fron holding public office, such
allegedly undesirable iniividuals as IMUaI Ken, AtHaSEI
Wataru, and MoxITA Tatsuo have been "rehabilitated by
the Pure Committee witiout any founds tion for such
action"
The disuualification of Mr. Latsumoto has been
received unfavorably by most Japanese regardless of
political
CONFTDETAL
JUN 15 1949
DECLASSIFIED
FILED
NND780069
BYC ZH NARS, Danio 1QSERT.74
0
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
political sentiment. It is believed unfortunate,th
fore, that it has remained for Mr. Matsumoto to be
championed in his fi ht for reinstatement by the Japanose
comunists and the Soviet Member. His purge is another
example of the irrational and even arbitrary manner
in which Japanese are subject to disqualification.
Despite the storm of protest which has been raised by
the action of the furge Conmittee in dealing with
Mr. Matsumoto, so far as the Mission is aware General
Headquarters has made no move to intervene in the matter.
Enclosure:
Letter from Soviet .ouber,
Allied Council for Jaran,
pril 11, 199
Parchment hat to Jepurte
3503
CNSpinks:nhp
-CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
Erelbeu
dated
Unite
for Japan,Tol
"Soviet"Protest Aga
of MATSUMOTO Jiich1ro"
(COPY)
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
TOKYO
OFFI CE OF THE MEMBER
FOR
THE UNICF OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
General of the Army Douglas MacArthur,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
Dear General:
On March 28, 1949 a Japanese Diet delegation
visited the Soviet Mission and handed a cony of a
petition adiressed to you in the name oi numerous
trade unions, cultural" organizations and various
political parties requesting to cancel the decision
of the Purge Committee regarding disqualification of
Jiichiro Matsumoto, former Vice-Prosident of the House
of Councillors.
Having scrutinized this petition and other pertinent
materials, I came to the conclusion thst the decision
of the Purge Committee regarding Mn Liatsumote was
absolutely unjust and incorrect. Juch a decision
might be explained by nothing else but an aspiravion
of the antidemocratic cireles of Japan to renove from
the political activities tlose politicians, who are
undesirable for them.
Mr. Jiichiro Matsumoto is one of the politicians
who has been fighting iere than 30 years for emaneipation
of the outcast "TA" caste. Jince the surrenler of Japan
he has been an active adherent of the democratization
of his country end occupied such posts as the Vice-
President of the Association for Freedom and Human Rights,
the Chairan of the Japan Labor-Farmer Relief Association,
the Chairman of the "Suiheisha" an others, end thus he
has conciliated the confidence and favour of the wide
Japanese ublic.
This may be proved by the indignation, that has
spread now among the Japanese public in connection with
the decision regarding Mr. Matsumoto's politicel disquali-
fication.
Such

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
April 21, 1949.
-2-
Such a decision is an evident example of how the
Purge Committee is used in order to oppress demooratie
lealers. At the same time there is a number of cases
showing how this Committee has been used in order to
defend supporters of the Japanese militarists.
In connection with this I would like to remind
a few names of those persons who had been rehabilitated
by the Purge Committee without any foundation for
such action:
Ken Inukai - one of the ex-leaders of the so-called
Asia Development Committee, the former Economic Adviser
of Wang Ching-wei's puppet government.
Wataru Narahashi - one of the supporters of the
Japanese militarists, who was very active in China.
Tatsuo Morita - former leader of the so-called
patriotic movement in industry, the author of a number
of militaristic books as well as of the "German Labor
Front"
I hope that you will take neasures to cancel the
incorrect decision regerding Mr. Matsumoto's political
disqualification.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ K. Derevyanko
Lt. General K. N. Derevyanko
U.S.S.R. Member
Allied Council for Japan
11 Apr 1949, Tokyo
TRASLATED FROS RUSSLAN BY:
No。 1163
E. B. Kryloff
Maj, FA
G-2 Foreign Liaison

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
Toukij1
Tokyo
CDIVISNOF
cnison
Tokyo
Secretary of State
NORTHEAST AA AFFAIRSAPP1129, 1949
Washington, D. C., U. S. A..
Y-61949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Your Excellency;
Sinoe arriving in Japan last February 2l, I have been
extremely busy in trade activities. vith over a month passed
by, I should like to take this opportunity to extend my cor-
dielest greetings to you from Tokyo.
During the month spent here to dete, 1 have been able
to gain en over-ell pieture of presentuay Jep an. I am happy
to be able to report that the changes for the better have been
remarkeble sinoe my visit here : year ago. Lore houses have
been construoteu, the people are now tetter clothed, and
there 1is a deeper sense of opti. iss for the future.
I met General Lacarthur last week end disoussed various
topios with him for over two hours. He expressed a great
determination to see through the rehabilitation of Japan.
During the course of y uctivities, I was also able to meet
mony Japtnese business und politionl leaders, all of whom ere
u.enimous in expressins thheir gretefulness to the United States
for her aid in Japen's reconstruction. The Japanese are
reelly sincere in their hopes to repey mericen generosity
with deeds rather then wi th mere words. And 1 think a real
effort is beins made toward thet end.
CS/JEC
April hes seen the comins of wemmer weether here. In
Ueno Park here in Tokyo, cherry blousoms have hegun to bloom.
Soon the beau tiful pint flowere wdll cover the whole Japanese
landscape.
I em hopins to spond a liutle ore time here to conelude
my business conteets.  thin! Japan   meriee can do much
good for coch other in certcin fields.   making it y
mission to cement such reletions.
160215
In closing, 1 would like to suy thet I cen be reeched
always et the address on this letterhead. If you have any
metters you wish to correspond, pleese don't hesitate to write.
I wait eagerly for your reply.
Yours most sinderely,
We have just finished hearing your
speach at the Press Club, N. Y., It came in very clearly and I translated
most of it to group of Japanese leaders who gathaned, hege in this hstel
for Emperor's Birthday. I told them that I had thehonor of meeting
you through my good friend Gael Sullivan in March 1947. and you were.
very kind to direct me to Mr. Earnest Gross
Who helped me to come tc
Japan in 1947. I also told them your help ih
Oyama's case.
(toans) T. Muxo Yamas
VINO

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.92)
CHAL AND SECRET
Tokyo, April
Dear Max:
In reference to your letter of April 4 regarding
No. 42 of February 18, 1949, 1et me recapitulate some of the
considerations which went into the conclusions reached in the
airgran and in my secret despatch no. 4 of January 4, 1949
I lelieve is the one you had in mind.
In despatch no. 4 we concluded that "it is our belief that
the most desirable and(practicable pattern for democratie devolop
ment in Japanese political life rests in a change of governmon
between a conservative narty and a labor narty as their majoritio
fluctuate in the Iational Diet, with the communist grouping at
the extrene Jeft remaining always a small minority;" that the
more cor servative elenents are endeavoring to form a single con-
servative party, w! ile the corunists are exerting formidable
leaderst ip to orgar ize an extreme le ftist roun; and that "the
inoortart viddle oo itica rea, from v ich a future labor party
should develon, is urforturately in a state of disorganization and
cor fusion."
e
I an sure t'a subsecueut duve onments ae a result of the
eneral electior of ru r  a  ve borne out these pre-election
conclusions. The  survative ulener ts, as renreserted by the
Denccratic Jibera? "arty, Lave wor a prenonderant position in the
3049
Diet; the extrene eft, centerire around he Japan Communist Party,
has obeno era ly increased its strength; and the middle grouping,
renreserted by the Derocratic "arty pd the Social Democratic
Party, hae sufferei lishstrous everses. Ir this connectior, let
me add tlat ve tre in is pee ent wit the Goverrment Section's
intecoretut ion o e election urd ts ir sistence that the election
Las ro res bed u e "o or" of aoamese ooitics.
DC/R
We
0012
"ax . iston, suire,
lof, Divisior fortran frairs,
De rtment f State,
d in-tor, D.
JAN9
det_
G
cS/
PJRCONAI
AND
1953
H

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.96)
electorate's choice to one or the ot her of the two extremes.
-2
We believe that this polarization is an undesirable develop-
ment. For one thing, such polarization tends to intensify left-
right conflict which in other countries has led to violence and
disorder at the sacrifice of all really democratic development.
In the second place, political polarization reduces the/election
of January 23 is in our view a disturbing manifestation of this
trend toward a limited choice. The phenomenal gains of the Democratic
iberal Party and the connunist-led extreme left were made
ontirely hy defections to the right and to the left from the
middle grouping.
On the other land, as noted in airgran no. 42, we helieve that
a more clearly arked division of political groupings in terms
of their  spective political views is also desirable. The great
weakness of the middle rouping (prinarily the Democratic and
Social Denocratic Purties) vas its heterogenous character. This
groupiny has attemoted to e brace too vide a range of political
se timent fe: its on pood. It las represerted an expedient merg-
ing of lasicaly con lictirs elerents, rourlt toget'er in good
paort for Ue ourpose of servine he personal anl itions of leaders
tho have abtemoted to secure strer gth by the runber of their fol-
lowers regurdless of tlcir co flicting political views. For
example, the dddle mroupins has cortaired elenents ully as
conservative in cutlook as the Demceratic Jiberal Party (e.g.
Inukai of he Denocratic Party) und racical elements who are
virtually as Par bo te Teft as the Jaoaor Gommurist Party (e.g.
Luroda, fomerly of the Social Democratic Party lut roy head of
the conmunist-aligned Jabor-Farmer Party).
It vas irconceivakle nd, bo oun ty irking, undesirable that
sucl unmatehed clenents stould atterot to function withir the
framework of tre niddle proupine verely for the purnose of baving
a place to ride in the oolitical procession.
The realigrnents whieh bave taker place withir the middle
croupiny befere mas since the peneral election are, we believe,
desirable from tle stand cint of clarifying the political atmos-
phere. Accerdingly, we expressed the view in airgram no. 42 that
the defection of the conservative Inukai faction fron the Demo-
cratic Party and its desire to merge with the equ lly conservative
Denocratic I iberal  arty anpears to be a healthy develoomert. In
& sinilar way, the weeding out of ultra-radical elements fron the
Social Demoeratie Party vould cive that body a far more corsistent
and integrated character.
Jertainly

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
Certainly one reason why the Democratic and Social Depocratic
Parties suffered in the January 23 election was because many of
the electorate came to realize that they would not know what they
were voting for if they voted for candidates of either of these
parties. One voting for the Democratic Liberal Party knew he was
voting for conservatism; one voting for the Japan Communist Party
knew he was voting for communism. But those who voted for the
Democratic and Social Democratic Parties were voting for political
ambiguity, since the Democratic Party represented anything from
Ir. Yoshida's conservatism, to the right fringes of the Social
Denocratic Party's socialism; while the Social Democratic Party
in turn represe: ted anything from the more liberal tones of the
Democratic arty to the red hue of the Japan Cormunist Party.
Although we believe it is desirable for conservative elements
to group into a single, clearly marked conservative party, and
equally desirable for extremely radical and communist sympathizer
elements to droo their iddle grouping camouflage and take their
tand vith the extreme communist Jeft where they can be properly
identified, we also feel that this process of realignment will in
turn ultimatery strensthen the piddle grouping.
Furthe more, it is onr helief that e strone middle srouping,
such as i ht evolve t' rouh a merger of the center and conserva-
tive elements of the Socil Democratic Party with the more liberal
elements or the Denocratie Party, vould be a desirable development.
While we are by no means in arreenent or syapathetic with the middle
roupirg's vague progrem of socialization, we feel that a strong
party of tl is character offers the best possihle neans of keening
the Jananese commnnists vithin limits. There are and will be many
Japanese who, wnvillin- to suoport the conservative views and
policies of the trouoira renresented ly the Democratic liberal
Party, meverbleles: ame : ot cos unists and do rot want to suonort
a coraunist party. But mnless t ere is some ether elternative,
such as a sbron iddle greupin could provide, bhey Iave little
or po choice exceot to support the com mnist party or its radical
satellites. Phe election of January 23  as, We helieve, a clear
demonstration of such rustration.
Tay conservative Japanese, ineludinm Prime Pir ister Yos ida,
are in favor of brilcing uo a strene middle croumins tround the
venocratie umnd Socian Denoeratie  arbiis. They believe, as we do,
that such a proupint would te the post desirable form of opoosition
and one wi ier weuld alse provide an outlet for many Japanese not
of conservative sent iment tho mi 1t othervise turn to the ext reme
left for wunt of uny otlor oleee to so.
Sincerely yours,
Bill
SeDald
PORSOLAL ND SLORUT

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.93)
OH
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
MAY 1 0 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
DEP:FTMENT OF STATE
PRIORITY
CIVIC CH OFRARARHRASE NOT REQUIRED
AND
Civil Affairs Division
EFFERENDE SERVICES
ir. M. P. Foster 6841
HA7 10 1949
TO3
SCAP
REF FILE COPY
uent Must Be
5 May 49
WAR 88225 PLEASE RETURN
Nx:
Fr CSCAD c1te FE. Reurads Apr C 69596 and Aug 48 C
62810. Reourads 0ct 48 w 90282 and Ju1 48 w 85963. Fgn
Ausiness and Investment Activities in Japan is subj.
1. Interested agenries wash sre anxious to encourage
Investment Program in Japan, but desire reexam proposai
Pere 7 Part 2 urad c 628i0 and Para 7 ourad W 90282. Request
initiation action outlined be suspended pending further cin-
sideration here based on advice fr you.
2. To assist consideratlon here, please furn dtls
8
proposed acquisitions shares and your comments re assistance
6
Vo japenese economic rehabilitation. specifically dtls re
4
particular pot ential invest ors, types and amts or potential
Investments, potentlal ast fgn exchange which would be acquired
00
and cther rangible contributions to Japanese economy.
1
3. Serious soncern shared by all agencies reapecting
5
contd depressed soty prices in Japan tnat do not yet reflect
inflationary impact as obard in wholesale and retail price
5
4
indices and thet might easzly result in acquisition of
549
majority cont ol by fgn inves ora with modest outlay dollars
or sterling such eetivisies mighs be psyehologically and
politically harmful to vhe cocupetion.
Please furn proposed text new Lang covering purchs
of Japanese eecurities for Yen ectutred with fgn exehange.
C
NOTE.
0 69596 18 CM 1N 19498 (28 Apr 49)
c 62810 1e  1 195 (11 Aug 48)
AL
C/R
ORIGINATOR:
CAD
F+
NAVAIDE, AF, CAD (UTATE. TREASURY), JUS
DISTR IBUTION.
HAVY, OAS FO SOORM, ARMY COMPT, OST
(may 49)
DSG
0619397irp
CM OUT 88225
nev
CONF IDENTIAL
Cat
THIS COCUMENT CONTAINS INFORMATION AF:
E OF THE UNITED STATES Y
NATIGN 
L'WS, TITLE 18, U.S.S, SEG
THE REVELATION C
MEANING
CORY -NO:
ORIZED PER
28
F
793 AND 794.
PORBIDDEN

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION C
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
7
PLAIN
Action: EUR
Control 3719
Info:
P
OF EUROPEAN AF AIRS
SAM
9:22 a.m.
MESSAGE
FE
OL
CIA
FRCH:
4.scow
POS
PA
Secretary of State
DCR
4
NO:
1158, May 10
Tokyo's April 25-26 peace congress covered in 1/3
c lu Toyo Tass despatch Soviet press May 10.
Tass seys i 0 participated in congress which
894.00/5-1049
aaopted prey am fight against war propaganda,
Fascs.  affiliation military bloc, and for
reptc corstruton peace treaty.
Participants
headed Tivo Oyama.
Sent Department 1198, repeated Tokyo 23.
KOHLER
PLADN
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.96)
Office Memorandum
UNITBD STATES
Office o
TO
NA - Mr. Bishop
FAN EASIFAN
FROM : NA - M. Green Ng.
a good exanny
sUBJECT: Tokyo's 242 of Apri1 21, 1949
the deteriaas
palitical situa
At its fourth national convention, the left-wing of the
Socialist Party gained virtual control of the party. A leftisto 
first time in the party's history. The leftists obtained a
potentially preponderant position on the Central Committee and
voted an amendment to the party's constitution, providing for a
Communist-style politburo of five members, local chapters at
workshop levels and popular election of the Central Executive
Committee. By adopting certain techniques such as closer iden-
tification with the mass labor movements and what is virtually
the cell principle of organization at the workshop level, the
Socialist party moved closer toward becoming a class party, al-
though it is far from espousing Communist principles.
In moving left-ward, the Socialist Party is in a better
Q501649
nosition to bid for mass labor supnort which it lost to a large
extent as a result of having supported the National Public Serv-
ice Law amendments on labor. In this sense, the party may
counter more effectively postwar Communist inroads into the
labor movement, a consideration which evidently caused the
Democratization League subsequently to back up the Socialists
rather than to form a new "Labor Party". The leftist trend of
the Socialists, on the other hand, will almost inevitably block
any fusion between the Socialist Party and the liberal elements
of the Democratic Party.
CS/Y
As for leadership, Katayama was reelected party Chairman
as a compromise gesture to the right wing. He is expected to
be overshadowed by Suzuki who, though a confirmed leftist, is
not a Marxist and has been opposed to suggested mergers with
the JCP. However, he is not particularly capable. His
theories lack clarity. He could, despite his anti-Communist
118
views "be easily suscentible to a communist-inspired popular
front movement if it were offered in the right garb". The
Confidentia
ablest and best qualified leader of the Socialist Party is
Hirano Rikizo, former right-wing leader. He was disqualified
under the purge, apparently at the instigation of General
Headquarters.
FE should see. An aporaisal sheet is attached.
A4
ASv.
File
5
Cat.
-1649
NA:MGreen: bk

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SIRVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
MAY-41949
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 242
Tokyo, April 21, 1949.
CONF IDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
Subject: The Social Democratic Party's Shift to the Left.
REC D
APR
ACTICL
The Honorable
FE
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir:
OLI
EUR/X
I have the honor to bring to the Department's
attention the reorganization of the Social Democratic
Party at its fourth national convention (March 15-17,
1949), as a result of which left wing elements have
secured virtual control of the party
G
Ir. SUZUKI Mosaburo, leftist leader, Was elected
Secretary General in a substantial victory over
Mr. ASANUNA Inajiro of the right wing. For the first
time since the oranization of the farty ut tre end
of the war a leftist has secured the seeretery general-
ship. A new thirty- n Central Conmittee has been chosen,
comprising ten right-wingers, ten left-wingers, ive
neutrals, und five moabers representing the lertist
Japan Liaison Council of Labor Unions (Zenroren), thus
giving the leftist a potentially preponderant position.
Mr. KaTaYAi Tetsu was reelected party Chair an as a
compromise gesture to the right wing. but he is expected
to be over-shadowed by the more asgressive Secretary
General. The convention also voted to amend the party's
constitution to provide for a communist-style politburo
of five members, loeal chspters at vorkshop levels,
and public election of the Central Executive Committee
by party members
The results of the party's reorganization iudicate
a marked inerease in the influenee of labor unien leaders,
including Democratization League elements of the National
Congress of Industrial Unions Because of the Social
Democratie Party's support of the National Public Service
Law amendment in 1948, the Len jue initially intended to
organize a Jabor party of its own. More recently, however,
it decided to concentrate its attention in effecting the
reconstruction of the Social Democratic Party along more
leftist lines.
The
CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 242,
Apr11 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
The reconstruction of the Social Democratic Party
at the fourth ne tional convention has thus given labor
ε far stronger position in the party than it ever enjoyed
before. It is likely, therefore, thet the party will
become more truly a labor party, although at the cost
of moving further to the left.
The national convention rejected the left wing's
insistence upon a "scientific socialism", or Marxist
plank, in the party's platform. Instead, the party
has committed itself to the attain ent of an equally
vague program of "sociel de ocracy" through the acquisi-
tion of power in the National Diet. To accomplish this
end, however, the convention adopted certain communist
technigues, such as closer identificction with the mass
labor movetent and vh t is virtually the cell principle
of organ ization at the lowest or so-culled workshop
level. The party has in this way toved nuch closer
toward becoming a class party, clthough it has still
drawn a line against the class principles of the communists.
While the Social Demoeratic Party has moved much
further toward the left, it is still considerably to the
right of the Japan Communist Party. Lir. Suzuki, the
new Secretary General, is a thorough leftist, but of
the legal type. He has apparently drawn a certain limita-
tion beyond which he will not venture, as illustrated
by his remaining within the party last fall when ultra-
leftist elements of the Kuroda faction withdrew to form
the communist-like Labor-Farmer Porty because of dis-
satisfaction with the conservative leadership of the
Socialists. Like Lr. .To Kanju, ir. Juzuki is not a
Marxist, and he has been as opposed to suggested mergers
with the Japan Communist Party as ony of his party's
right wingers. While noted for his inelleotual integrity
and with some reputation as an economie expert, Lir. Suzuki
has given little evidence of being a brilliant or particu-
larly capable political leader. His thcories of socialism
lack clarity As a politiclun, he betrays considerable
confusion in nis thinking. He is unti-capitalistic
without sharing the communists' anti-cupitalism. In
the confused middle ground between right and left, between
capitalism and comaunism, Lr. Suzuki might well lose his
way. Despite his enti-comaunist views, he could be easily
susceptible to a comunist-inspired popular front movement
if it were offered in the right arb.
In moving further to the left, the Social Denocratic
Party has undoubtedly strengthened itself. It will now
be able to bid more successfully for mass labor support.
In this sense, the party may be able to counter more
effectively
CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
Apm1 2, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
effectively postwar communist inroads into the labor
movement, a consideration which was apparently behind
the decision of the anti-communist Demooratization.
League to throw its support to the Social Demoorats
rather than attempt to create a new, "reformed" socialist,
or labor, party of its own. On the other hand, the
reorganization of the Social Derooratic Party will most
likely sever its connection with the more liberal elements
of the Democratic Party, the basis upon which the coalition
Katayama and Ashida cabinets were built.
The national convention of the Socialists has by
no means erased the heterogeneous, factional character
of the Social Democratic Party. ac! step in the convention's
deliberations, from the election of officers to the
definitions of party policy, was marked by compromises
and adjustments between the left and right wings. But
in this process of connro ise ard adjustment the center
of gravity has definitely shifted to the left, and, while
an open split between the two extremes has been avoided,
the party is still a coalition of conflicting fections.
The inereased strength of the party's left wing
can be attributed only in part to labor's larger role
in party affairs as e result of the national convention.
Equally important is the decline in strength and prestige
of the right wing leaders. From the time the party was
organized at the ond of the war under right wing auspices,
the rightists have been unable to provide csgressive,
dynamic leadership. en like Katayara end Asanuna
apparently lack the political acumen nd forceful
personality strong leudersrip de ands. In s sense, most
of the Sosial Democrntie Tarty's leaders  re too fer ahead
of their time
Jaranese polities, for  Ii the postwar
changes, is still characterized  urtuin tralicional,
so-called "feudal" aspects of leaderahi" in Whie. the
oya-bun, or boss, depends l on olic.ir, based upon
strong personal loyalties.  Toc pany of the Socialist
leaders lack such strons personel re lowings end have
depended upon the ore impereonel upport of the intangible
electorate At part  rfere ce tables d in the rough-
und-tuable of intra-ruru: strife : lealer's personal
popularity at te polis is too often of less veight
than the nu ber nd infl ence of his ocrsour 1 backers.
The social Demoert tie Farty Jeader who was perhups
best ualified from the stenipoi t or the sice and
strength of is personul "ollowin mas Ir. HIRafc Rikizo.
This former right-win le ler, ewer r, was disaualified
under the urse, a noie tiy ab the iustigutiou pri trily
of General headquerters
is dis ualification desrived
the party's right wie or its surencest und rerters
cost able leader
nother
CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other
dianogition in accorden

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.90)
  . 
Apr1 21, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Another important weakmess of the Social Demooratio
Party's right wing which has been of equal benerit to
the lertists was the purty's politicul failure while it
was in office durinc the Katayaie and Ashida coalition
cabinets. This politioal failure has seriously discredited
right wing leaderstip in the eyes of the leftists and
the party's cenerel re u ation in tic eyes of the electorate,
as demonstrated  ll too clearly by th. results of the last
general election
deeefulur
 Beblu
350 1
CNSpinns:h
CONNIDS THA
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
Office Memorandum
UNITED
TO
NA - Mr. Bishop
DATI
FROM : NA - M. Green Ne
FAH EAT
SUBJECT:
Tokyo's 243 of April 23, 1949
894.00
5191
94.00/5-1549
The Soviet Member of the Allied Council has
sympathetically received representatives frbm many
groups of Japanese, protesting the purge of Mr.
Matsumoto, former Vice President of the House of
Councillors. The Soviet Member has protested
Matsumoto's purge and is generally championing his
fight for reinstatement. This is unfortunate in
view of the fact that Matsumoto's disqualification
has been received unfavorably by most Japanese re-
bis Document must be Returned
gardless of political sentiment. Spinks observes
the RM/R Ceptral Files
that Matsumoto's purge is another example of the
irrational and arbitrary operation of the purge.
GHQ has made no move to intervene in the matter.
CSB
Comment: As I understand it from talking with
Kades, Matsumoto is the leader of the ETA (outcaste)
class, numbering upwards of three million. The
Soviet member is making an obvious and, I should
think, not ineffective bid for ETA support of the
JCP:
FE should see.
a
DECLASSIFIED
Rev.
State Deot
NND 780069
5-16
Noothes Asan Attoir
By. Th. NARS, D iSept: 79
Cat_
NA:MGreen:bk
5/16/49

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
for Japan
DEPARTMENT OF STATFOkyO, Apr11 21, 1949
No. 243
CONFIDENTIAL
REC'D
(For Department Use Only).
APR. 28
ACTION
FE
Sui ject:
Soviet Protest Against Purge of MATSULLOTO
Jiichiro
INFO
DGR
OLI
The Acting Politieal Adviser has the honor to
EUR1/
transmit to the Depart.ent a copy, in translation,
EUR/X
of a letter addresced to the supreme Comiander on
April 1l, 1949 by the Soviet Meaber, Allied Council
for Japan, protesting ageinet the purge of Ir MaTyKoTo
Jiichiro. former Vice iresilent of tre House of Councillors.
The Soviet member's lotter notes that a delegation
from the National Diet ielivered to him a copy of a
petition addressed to the Jupreme Con ander by a nmber
of prade unions, cultural orgunizetions, ani political
parties, request n reconsileration of Mr. Latsunoto's
disqualification
After studying this petition, the
Soviet member states that he is convinced the action
of the Purge Comrittee regarainy r Matsumoto "was
m
absolutely unjust and incorreet" The Soviet Member
views this action as a move by anti-democratic elenents
to remove from political activity those politicians
they consider undesirable. Reviewing Mr Latsunote's
efforts on behalf of tle lenoeratie movenent in postwar
894.00
Japan, the Soviet Member cherges that, while Mr Matswnoto
has been disqualified from holdin public office, such
allegedly undesirable inlividuals as INUI Ken, tHASI
Wataru, and MOxITA Tatsuo have been "rehabilitated by
the Purge Committee without any foand: tion for such
action"
The dis ualification of Ir Latsumoto has been
received unfavorably by most Japanese regardless of
olitical
16
OONFTDL TIAL
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.97)
April 21, 1949.
-2-
political sentiment. It is believed unfortunate, there-
fore, that it has remained for Mr. Matsumoto to be
championed in his fight for reinstatement by the Japanese
communists and the Soviet Meaber. His purge is another
example of the irrational and even arbitrary manner
in which Jananese are subject to disqualification.
Despite the storm of protest which has been raised by
the action of the Furge Committee in dealing with
Mr. Matsumoto, so far as the Mission is aware General
Headquarters has made no move to intervene in the matter.
Enclosure:
Letter from Soviet omber,
Allied Council for Japan
april 11, 10 9
Parchment Mat to Depart ent
350 3
CNSpinks :mhp
-GONFIDENTTAL
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional fins or othe

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
United States
for Japan, Tokyo;
"Soviet Protest
of MATSUMOTO Ji1ohiro"
(COPY)
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
TOKYO
OFFT CE OF TIE MEMBER
FOR
THE UNIC: OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
General of the Arny Douglas MacArthur,
Supreme Comander for the Allied Powers.
Dear General:
On March 28, 1949 a Japanese Diet delegation
visited the Soviet lission and handed a cony of a
petition ad iressed to you in the name o. numerous
trade unions, cultural orgonizations and various
political parties requestin- to cancel the decision
of the Purge Committee regardins disqualification of
Jiichiro Matswnoto, former Vice-Fresident or the House
of Councillors.
Having scrutinizea i is petition and other pertinent
materials, I case to the conclusion that the decision
of the Purge Committe: regardin; mr Liatsumote was
absolutely unjust and incorrect. Juch a decision
might be exnlained by nothin else but an aspiration
of the antidemocratic cir:les of Japan to renove from
the political activities tlose politicians, who are
undesirable for them.
Ir. Jiiehiro Latsumeto is one of the politicians
who las been fi htin : cre than So years for e ancination
of the outcast "Ta" custe. Jinee the surrenter of Japan
he has been an active adherent of the lemoer:tizstion
of his country nd occuried sush rosts us the Vice-
President of the Assoeiation for Freedom and Huian Rights,
the Chair an of tie Ja en Labor-Fur er Relief Association,
the Chairmen of the "Suil eisha" an. othere, end thus he
has conciliated the confidence nd favour of the wide
Japanese ublic
This may be proved by the indi nation, that has
spread now mong the Japanese public in connection with
the decision reg rdinnr. atsumoto's :olitice lis uali-
fication
Such
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.93)
Jespatch No. u,
April 21, 1949.
-2-
Such a decision is an evident example of how the
Purge Committee is used in order to oppress democratic
leaders. At the same time there is a number of cases
showing how this Commitee has been used in order to
defend supporters of the Japanese militarists.
In connection with this I would like to remind
a few nanes of those persons who had been rehabilitated
by the Purge Committee without any foundation for
such action:
Ken Inukai - one of the ex-leaders of the so-called
Asia Development Committee, the former conomic Adviser
of Wang Ching-wei's punpet government.
Wataru Nerahashi - one of the supporters of the
Japanese militarists, who was very active in China.
Tatsuo Morita - former leader of the so-called
patriotie movement in intustry, he suthor of a number
of militaristie books as well es of the 'Gernan Labor
Front"
I hope that you will tske : eanures to caneel the
incorrect decisich regeriin: r matsumoto's political
disqualirication.
Jincerely Foure,
/s Y. Derevanko
Lt. uenerel I M. Derevyanko
U.S.S.R Rember
Allied Couneil Por Jaran
11 Apr 1949, Tokyo
No. 1163
B Erylorf
aj,
 Jerei  Liaison
INFORMATION COPY
Do not return to DC. This copy is for divisional files or other

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
for Japan
ution
NO:314
1949
Tokyo, May 1e, 1949.
Date of Action
orrice Symbol
officer
Name of Officer
REC'D
Subject:
Prime Minister's ddress t Tokyo Correspondents
ACTION
FE ENC
XR
Club.
INFC
DCR
OLI
ENG
The Honorable
The Secretary of Jtate,
POS
ENC
Washinton.
894.00/5-1649
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to transnit five copies of en
address Prime Minister YOShIDA Shigeru delivered at
the Tokyo Correspondents Club on May 11, 1949.
C
1XR
The address has aroused consilerehle interest
because of the Prime Minists 's eaemest sprerI for
world sympathy, confidence, una sooporatisn in essistins
Je pan's economic recovery na retur to er al ioterna-
tional relstions
The Prime Minister  lro toek ccomslen to sorreet
what he considers a lse impression of hixself and the
De ocratic Liberal Party. He noted th t e nd his
party are often described in foveign books, mcgozines,
and newspapers as "ultra-consery tives," "recctionaries,"
and "die-hards" Lr. Yoshida statea t hat he and some of
his associates were arrested by the VMilitary Police during
the war because they cid not subscribe to the creeds and
doctrines of the ilit rists and ulura-nationalists then
in power. The Prime inister eaphasized thot during the
war it was the  ilitarists who were the radicals end that he
and his associates were the conservetives who stood for
peace and dared to defy those in pover.
There is no doubt that Tr. Yoshida teenly resents
the labels "reactionery" :nd "aie-herd" vhich many
foreign correspondents as vell no leftist orponents in
Japan repeatedly use in describins him  nd the Denocratic
Liberal Party. Mile some of the leadere of the Jemocratic
Liberal Party uncuestionably ropresent an old-graid type
of conservatism, it is insceurate to deseribe the Prime
Minister tna the purty he heads as re ctionary in the
FILED
customary
4199
CONPTDE TIAL
R
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH À NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
customary senme of the word. Mr. Yoshi
represent the principal conservative element1
Japan primarily because there 1s nothing furth
right as an influential organized party.Aa the
Minister noted in his address, the only differenoe bot
his position during the war and today is that he and him
party are now in power.
Mr. Yoshida's position is actually a relative one:
Since the end of the war the scale for measuring politioal
viewpoints has been shifted far to the left. During
the war this scale heen on the far right with the militarism
and extreme nationalis  as personified by the Tojo coterie,
and extended only about as far to the left as Iir. Yoshida
and other peace advocates who were harassed or imprisoned
for their "radical" views.. With the end of the war,
almost everything from Tojo extrenism to the edge of
Mr. Yoshida's conservative position was swept from Japanese
political life, while, at the same time, the political
scale was shifted to include newly-risen political groups
ranging from the liberalism of the Social De ocratic
Party to communism. This shifting of the scale has, of
course, left Mir. Yoshida at what has now becone the right
in Japanese politics.
In his appeal for sympathy and understanding, Mr. Yoshida
expressed the hope that the world will reelize that the
Japanese are today sincerely endeavoring to rebuild their
nation upon a peaceful, demooratic he is. Me plealed for
a tempering of thoughts of revenge anl petpib tion by
those who suffered from Japanese aggre  vith the
realization that Japan now stends before he worla chastened,
humbled, and helpless es a result of  siu strous military
defeat. The Prime Minister expressed the hope thet the
world will not hold the transgressions of the past against
Japan's future and will perait Jarun to resuise its place
among the nations. "All we are saking now," the Trime
Minister pleaded, "is access to meteriale ns arkets
so that we may buy the food we need to live."
The Prime Minister's sppeal for sympath: nd under-
standing of the problems which face Japan's recovery
and his denial of heving reactionary policies have been
favorably received by the Jepanese press as a highly
desirable effort to dispel suspicion and misunderstanding
over Japan's efforts to recover. Sofe Japanese, however,
have expressed disappointment thst I. Yoshida did not
deal with the communist problenm and reiterate his
determination to stamp out comiunism. In makins his
appeal for the world's sympathy snd in attempting to counter
charges of being reactionary, Mr. Yoshida probably believed
it would be ineppropriate to deal with the communists
beyond his concluding statement that he end his party do
not see eye to eye with the Socialists and "abhor communism".
Respeotfully yours,
Oconullltuicen
Cloyce K. Fuston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
CONFIDENTTAL

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
inclosure: Att
Frime Minister's Address
at Tokyo Correspondents
Jlub, May 11, 1949.
(rive copies)
Parchment Mat to Department
261.2
Cpinks:mhp
CORPTDE TIAL

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.97)
UYION CAUTION
OBGERVE THE GELEASE TIN
FOR AUTOMATIC RELEASE AT 8 P.M. TOKYO TIME, Y
WHICH 18 1000 GMT MAY 11, 1949
ADDRESS OF THE PRIME MINISTER
AT THE FIRST ANNUAL PRIME
MINISTER'S DINNER OF THE
TOKYO, CORRESPONDENTS CLUB.
11 MAY, 1949.
MR. PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:
THIS HAS BEEN TO ME A MOST DELIGHTFUL AND MEMORABLE
EVENING. YOU HAVE ACCORDED ME A SIGNAL HONOR BY INVITING E
TO THIS FIRST ANNUAL PRIME MINISTER'S DINNER OF YOUR CLUB
I THANK YOU FOR THIS HONOR AND THANK YOU FOR YOUR HOSPITALITY
YOU FOREIGN CORRESPONDENTS ARE SERVING HERE AS EYES AND
EARS FOR THE WORLD WITH RESPECT TO EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS
IN TOKYO, IN JAPAN AND IN THE FAR EAST. DURING THE EVENTUAL
YEARS SINCE THE WAR'S END YOU HAVE DONE MONUMENTAL WORK IN
OBSERVING, INTERPRETING AND REPORTING THE POSTWAR DEVELOPMENTS
IN JAPAN
JAPAN IS AS YET AN OCCUPIED COUNTRY UNDER ALLIED CONTROL
AND TUTELAGE. IT IS ONLY THROUGH THE HELP AND GUIDANCE OF THE
ALLIED POWERS THAT OUR NATION CAN MAKE PROGPESS ON THE ROAD OF
COUR UNDER-
RECOVERY AND RE ON

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
UNDERSTANDING, BYMPATHY AND COOPERATION OP THE
WHICH ARE SO NECESSARY TO BPEED RECOVERY AND REGOT
YOU HAVE NOT ONLY ACTED AS HELPFUL INTERMEDIARIE
JAPAN AND OTHER NATIONS, BUT HAVE ALBO ASSUMED THEL
FRIENDS AND MONITORS, LIVING IN DIRECT CONTACT AND ABOGIAT
V!TH US AND GIVING FREELY YOUR COMMENTS AND CRITICIBM
ON THE BEHAVIOR OF THE NATION. IN THAT SENBE, YOU ARE NOT ON
RECORDERS, BUT ALSO MAKERS, OF THE HISTORY OF NEW JAPAN
DESIRE TO EXPRESS TO YOU MY SINCERE APPRECIATION OF THE BLE
ROLE YOU HAVE PLAYED IN THE PAST, AND ASK YOU FOR YOUR
CONTINUED COLLABORATION TO THE END THAT JAPAN MAY RISE FROM
THE RUINS OF WAR A NEW NATION, CHASTENED AND FREE.
NOW LET ME AVAIL MYSELF OF THIS OCCASION TO CORRECT WHAT
 CONSIDER A FALSE IMPRESSION OF MYSELF AND MY PARTY, THAT SEEMS
TO HE TAKING ROOT N TIE MINDS OF SOME FOREIGN OBSERVERS.
 AND MY FELLOW DEMOCRATIC-LIBERALS ARE OFTEN DESCRIBED
FOREIGN BOOKS, MAGAZINES AND NEWSPAPERS AS "ULTRA-CONSERVATIVEB"
IT SO HAPPENS, THESE ARE THE
"REACTIONARIES" OR "DIE-HARDS."
Y EPITHETS WHICH ARE HURLED AT US BY OUR ANTAGONISTS IN AND
OF THE DIET IN ORDER TO DISCREDIT US AT HOME AND ABROAD.
MORF

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
IF YOU CHECK UPON HISTORY, YOU WILL
AS RADICALS. THAT WAS BECAUSE WE DID NOT BU
CREEDS AND DOCTRINES OF THE MILITARY AND THE UL
WHO WERE IN POWER AND WHO LED THE. NATION TO DESTRUOT
THEY WERE THE RADICALS. WE STOOD FOR PEACE AND PROPENITY
DESIRED TO CONSERVE THE BEST IN JAPANESE INSTITUTION 
PRACTICES, AND WERE THEREFORE CONSERVATIVESTHE POSITI
AND MYSELF OCCUPY TODAY IS DIFFERENT ONLY IN THE BENBE
WE ARE THE PARTY IN POWER. WE A RE CONSERVATIVES NOW ITH THE
SAME OBJECTIVES. WE HARBOUR NO DESIGNS FOR AGGRESBION OR
CONQUEST. NO ONE CAN FAIRLY LEVEL A CHARGE THAT THE PRESENT
JAPANESE GOVERNMENT HAS ANY DESIRE OTHER THAN TO FAITHFULLY
CARRY OUT THE PROVISIONS OF THE POTSDAM DECLARATION AND THE
SURRENDER TERMS. WE ARE STRIVING IN EVERY W AY TO CONFORM TO
THE PRINCIPLES WHICH WOULD MAKE THE WORLD A HAPPY FAMILY OF
PEACE LOVING NATIONS.
UNFORTUNATELY, JAPAN IS FACED BY OBSTACLES THAT ARE MOST
DIFFICULT TO OVERCOME OR REMOVE. FOR US, TODAY, OUR ONLY ALLIES
ARE A WILL TO SURVIVE ON OUR PART AND THE BENEVOLENCE AND
MUNIFICIENCE OF THE UNITED STATES. OUR UNDYING GRATITUDE IS
DUE TO THE KINDLY, HELPFUL AND CONSIDERATE SUPPORT AND DIRECTION
OF THAT GREAT ENISSARY OF LIGHT AND LIFE, THE SUPREME COMMANDER
FOR THE ALLIED POWE RS AND THE MEMBERS OF HIS STAFF AND HIS COMMANDS
MQRE

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
WE FEEL, AB WE HAVE ALWAYB FELT
HIB FINE INHERENT SENSE OF JUSTICE HAB CONT
TO SPEED US ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERY. WITHOUT
KINDLY WORDS AND FI RMNESS OF PURPOSE OUR PROBLE
HAVE PROVED MUCH HARDER AND OUR BURDENS HEAVIER
IN JUDGING OUR ACTIONS FROM HERE OUT I BELIEVE TA
CNLY FAIR TO ASK THAT YOU CONSIDERUS IN THE LIGHT FTHE
CONDITION IN WHICH WE FOUND OURSELVES WHEN MY PARTY CAME INTO
POWÉR.
REALIZE THAT ONE OF THE FRAILTIES OF THE HUMAN MID
ITS CAPACITY TO ENTERTAIN THOUGHTS OF DOUBT, OF REPROACH,
REVENGE AND CRITICISM ALMOST ALL JAPANEBE HAVE ALL OF THOE
FEELINGS TOWARDS THE "ULTRAS" WHO IMPOSED UPON THEM DICTATOR
SHIP, AND LED THEM TO WAR AND TO DEFEAT, DESTRUCTION AND
UNSPEAKABLE SHAME AND MISERY.I CAN ONLY ASK THAT THOSE
WHO HAVE SUFFERED FROM JAPANESE AGGRESSION MAY TEMPER THIER
THOUGHTS OF REVENGE AND RETRIBUTION AS OURS ASE TEMPERED BY
OUR PITI FUL POSITION BEFORE THE WORLD AND THE NECESSITY TO
SURVIVE AS WELL AS THE REALIZATION THAT REVENGE AND RETRIBUTION
ARE NEVER CONSTRUCTIVE.
BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS AND AMONG NATIONS THERE IS AN INHERENT
COMPETITION. WE ARE COGNIZANT OF THE CONSTANT RIVALRY IN
TDE AND COMMERCE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. THERE ARE MANY WHO
WOULD FOR THE MOMENT RESTFICT JAPANESE IN MANY FIELDS OF
TIVITY。
THEY OBJECT TO JAPANESE GOODS BEING OFFERED IN WORLD
MORE

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
MARKET BECAUBE THEY. FEAR OUR TRADE EXPA
STRONG--THAT 1B, MAKE HER AGAIN A /THREAT TO PEADE
THOSE WHO OBJECT TO.A PROGRAM OF BURVIVAL FORTHE
ARE THOSE WHO WERE THE VICTIMS OF THE FEAR INPLA
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO ARGUE WITH HISTORY, BUT NEITHER
LIVE IN THE PAST. IT IS ALMOST IMPOBSIBLE TO REVIEW I
OR THE PAST WITHOUT PREJUDICED EYES AS THE HI8TORY 18 TO
THE: PATTERN FOLLOWED TEN, TWENTY OR THIRTY YEARB AGO 18
HARDLY APPROPRIATE.
YOU HAVE A DIFFERENT CONDITION TODAY. JAPANESE FINGERS
HAVE BEEN BURNT BECAUSE BY FOLLOWING BLINDLY THEIR MABTERS
THEY WERE LEAD LIKE LAMBS TO SLAUGHTER. ALL WE ARE ASKING
NOW IS ACCESS TO MATERIALS AND MARKETS SO THAT WE MAY BUY THE
FOOD WE NEED TO LIVE. WE MUST PRODUCE AND TRADE TO BE
SELF-SUPPORTING. WE DO NOT WANT TO BE INDEFINITELY A PAUPER
NATION FORCED TO DEPEND ON THE LARGESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
WE SHOULD BE PERMITTED TO USE OUR HONEST CAPABILITIES TO
PROVIDE OURSELVES WITH AN HONEST LIVING THROUGH FAIR
COMPETITION IN A PEACEFUL WORLD.
OUR GROWING POPULATION CONFRONTS US WITHA. TREMENDOUS
PROBLEM WHICH WE CAN ONLY PARTLY SOLVE BY USING MODERN TECHNIQUES
TO EXTRACT THE MAXIMUM OF FOOD FROM OUR LIMITED AREAS. WE MUST
PROMOTE INDUSTRY AND EXPAND TRADE WITH OTHER NATIONS. THIS WE
AIM TO DO. WE HAVE ACCEPTED THE 9 POINT RECOVERY PROGRAM AND ARE
RESOL VED TO RELIG!LUSLY CARRY OUT EACH PHASE OF IT.
MORE

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
THE TREND OF THE THINKING OF, MY PAR
THOUGHTB THERE 18 ANYTHING ULTRA CONBERVATIVE
"REACTIONARY " THEN I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THE MEANIN
TERMS.
WE ARE A CONSEBVATIVE PARTY, BUT NOT "ULTRA
IN THE DEROGATORY AND ABUSIVE SENGE THE TERM 18 EMPL
ONLY STAND FOR SENSE, SANITY, AND MODERATION, SUBSORIBI TO
WHAT GENERAL MACARTHUR CALLS "CONSEBVATIVE PHILOSOPHY 
MENT." I HOPE YOU WILL NOT BE DECEIVED BY THE PROPAGANAOF
QUR POLITICAL ENEMIES.
TRUE, WE DO NOT SEE EYE TO EYE WITH THE SOCIALIST
ABHOR COMMUNISM. IN THAT SENSE, WE ARE DEFINITELY OF THE RINT
BUT WE HOPE AND BELIEVE THAT WE ARE :ALSO IN THE RIGHT.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
ffice Memorandum
UNITED STAT
NA - Mr. Blshop
TO
DATB: 5/18/
FROM : NA - M. Green NuG.
sUBCT: Tokyo's 265 of April 28, 1949
Based on the results of the January general
elections, the Central Executive of the JCP has pub-
licly announced the party's new struggle principles.
These principles emphasize popularfranu strategy,
being critical of the party's failure so far to
achieve progress in that direction. They also attack
the Government's plan to introduce foreign ("comprador")
capital into Japan and attack all phases of the stabil.
ization program, particularly its taxation and labor
rationalization phases.
The JCP announcement includes the statement:
"each struggle will emphasize that the choice is
between a democratic people's government, in pther
words seizure of powers by the people, and anhihila-
tion". According to Mr. Spinks Smih, this statement
signifies that previous JCp concepts of "peaceful revo-
lution" have been discarded in favor of a situation of
undisguised revolution by force, but that this strategy
will probably be held in check during the occupation.
Mr. Spinks regards this change of strategy as based on
894.00/5-1849
the election results which encouraged the Communists to
become more aggressive and violent.
The JC? announcement recognizes that an effective
united front will require a skillful harmonizing under
Communist leadershin of varied elements of sunporters
in different occunations. This will require the care-
ful training and ejucation of party members, with emphasis
on "working principles" as opoosed to theory.
BC/R
Ans14
894.00
Rev.
Cat
NA:MGreen:bk
CSN
5

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
United States Poll
for Ja
Tokyo, May 19, 1949
No. 322
SECRET
(For Department Use Only)
①
Subject: OY Ikuo
The Churge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor
to refer to the Department's airgran no. A-73 of April 28
1949, concerning the circunstences which surrounded the
return to Japan of Professor OYalA Ikuo in September
XR
1947, ani to transmit a memorandum on this subject pre-
Files
Central
DC/R
pared by an officer of this Mission who at the time of
894.00B
Professor Oyame's return was in the Military Intelligence
Doctment Must Be Returned To
Section of Generel Feadguarters and was concerned with
this problem.
Due to the sensitive character of the case, this
Mission has not oprroached the Military Intelligence
894.00/5-1949
Section for further informetion on this subject. A
detailed report on Professor Oyama's activities with
some reference to circurnstances surrounding his return
to Japan in l947 is cont ined in the Military Intelli-
gence Section's Feriodical Sumary, issue number 39,
dated April 15, 1949, Section IV Srecial Articles.
Enclosure:
Memorandum May 19, 1949,
on Oyama Ikuo by o
C. N. Spinks.
Parchcent mat to Department.
350.3
CNSpinks:mhp
SECRI
DC/R
A.4

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 322
SECRET
(For Department Use Only)
①
Subject: OYAlA Ikuo
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor
to refer to the Department's airgram no. A-73 of April 28,
1949, concerning the circunstence which surrounded the
XR
return to Japen of Professor OYAMA Ikuo in September
1947, and to transmit a memorandum on this subject pre-
894.00B
pared by an officer of this Mission who at the time of
Professor Oyama's return was in the Military Intelligence
Section of General Eeadguarters and was concerned with
this problem.
Due to the sensitive character of the case, this
Mission has not epproached the Military Intelligence
Section for further informetion on this subject. A
894.00/5-1949
detailed report on Professor Oyama's activities with
some reference to circunstances surrounding his return
to Japan in l947 is contained in the Military Intelli-
gence Section's Feriodical Summary, issue number 39,
turned To
dated April 15, 1949, Section IV Srecial Articles.
Enclosure:
Memorandun May 19, 1949,
on Oyama Ikuo by So
C. N. Spinks.
Parchment Mat to Depart ent.
350.3
CNSpinks:nhp
D0/R
4
C
SECRET
cd
× 079486

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.98)
Subjedt: OYAMA Iuo
With the exoeption of the lete
NOSAKA Sanzo, Professor OYANA Ikdo
Japan's outstanding political exilo
sojourn in the United States from lo3e to
the middle of the war, he lived quletly at
University, working in.the Politioal Soionoo
under the tutelage and patronage of Professor
COLEGROVE. About 1943-1944, however, as mor
tion began to be given to the shape Japan we
after the war, attention began to center on Pro
Oyama both as a source for information and as a
postwar leader in Japan. American communist a
left-wingers among Americans and Japanesd roail r
United States became convinced thet some kind oaer
popular front would emerge in postwar Japan and begar
approach Professor Oyama as a possible leader.
There is no doubt that Professor. Oyama by this
period was himself swinging much further to the left
than he had ever, been when he engaged in politieal
activities in Japan before l932, and was highly susoeptible
to the advances made by communists in the United States.
Shortly after Japan's surrender and the emergence
of leftist and communist parties in Japan, considerable
agitation began among left-wing Japanese for the purpose
of promoting Professor Oyema's return. This agitation
embraced a rether wide range of political sentiment from
communists end communist sympathizers to such relatively
conserv tive elements as leaders of the Social Demooratio
Party, including Mr. KATaYAMA Tetsu, leter premier, who
signed a petition urging his return.
It is obvious that left-wing politicians in Japan
hoped Professor Oyame would return primarily because they
desired to use him, believing that his reputation would
greatly enhance their parties. The Japan Communist Party
however, at no time expressed openly an opinion on
Oyama's return. Some communists in a personal capacity
welcomed the idea, but available informetion indicates
that the party itself was, at that time, somewhat soeptioal
of Oyama and considered him a political opportunist.
There was also some fear expressed in conmunist circles
that Professor Oyama might be able to organize a new
aggressive left-wing party which would compete with the
Japan Communist Party, or that he might head a popular
front movement which, because of Oyama's reputation and
great appeal, might easily get out of the communists
control. Since his return to Japan, however, the
Japanese
SECRET

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese Communiata have
attitude to
that he oan be used effeotively for
While left-wing agitation for Profomm
return inoreased during 1946 and 1947, the
that personnel of extreme leftist aympathy
in the Government Seotion of Gererala
to take a keen interest in having Oyama returmsto
play a role in leftist politios. At this time al
Professor Colegrove was a special assistant to Brig
General Courtney WHITNEY, chief of the Government
While not a communist sympathizer, Professor Colegrove
also apperently believed that Oyama would provide Japan
with dynamic liberal leadership. In some of his oorres
pondence with academic associates in the United States.
photostats of which the undersigned has seen, Profeseor
Colegrove stated thet he urged General Whitney to make
arrangements for Oyama's return and that the chief of
the Government Jection was favorable to the suggestion
The correspondence of Professor Colegrove in
reference was written after Colegrove returned to the
United States in 1947 before Oyama returned to Japan.
In the meantime, Mr. IUKoYAMA Teruo, a Chicago businessman
who financed Professor Oyama's activities, had arranged
a speaking tour for Oyana on the Pacific West Coast and
in Hawaii. During this tour in July and ugust, 1947
Oyama revealed his sympethies for the com unists and was
In close touch with Japanese and Amerigan communists on
the West Coast and in Hawaii. Professor Colegrove was
alarmed and apparently disillusioned by these developments,
and in his correspondence referred to above expressed
regret that he had been in part instrumental in having
General Whitney "arrange" for Oyama's return to Japan.
It is not known just what these alleged "arrangements"
were. General Whitney has vehemently denied to the
Chief of the Military Intelligence Section that he was
in any way responsible for Oyama's return. So far as
the undersigned can rec ll, at no time during extensive
investigations of Oyama's return to Japan end his subsequent
aotivites was any information developed as to the manner
in whioh arrengements were made for his return, except
that financial arrangements were apparently made by
Mr. Mukoyema who in subsequent intercepted correspondence
has indicated some misgivings on this point.
It is believed that the full story of Professor
Qyama's return to Japan must be found in the files of the
epartment of the Army.
CN. Apinka
N. Stinks
Foreign Service Officer.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Politieal Ady
for Japan
Tokyo, May 23, 1949.
COIFIDENTIAL
Dear Max:
With reference to your letter of April 15, 1949
adaressed to Mr. Sebeld, I am transmitting two lists
of political prisoners released fron Japanese prisons
at the end of the war, prepared by the Military Intelligence
Section, General Teadquarters.
Inadejuate records vere &pparently kept at the time
of release of rolitic l prisoners in 1945, and it is
impossible to insicute the rclitical affiliations of all
inaividuals. nclosure one, which was originally prepared
by the Jap nese Goveinient, is believed to be a complete
list of :il rolitical prisoners released at the time,
exclusive of thirty-nine inlividuals of foreign nation-
released by General Head uarters directive of Cctober 4,
Files
le4e, civin ctu1 or suspected rolitical affiliations.
Jincerely yours,
Cloyee M. Luston
Enclosures:
1. List of politio 1 mi onere
prey red by Je ese Sovern ent.
Confidential File
List of politicul prisoners
894.00
released by cenerel Headquarters.
JAN16 1952
Lax . Bisior, Esauire,
D6,.
Chier, Division of Northeost
FILED
4
Asion Affe irs,
Der rtyo t of Jtate,
us in ton 35, D. c.
Rov
6
COFIDF TIL
X 071279

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.91)
Under the Ministry ofJustide ( 459
Name
Tokyo Detention
MIURA, Nomizo
SASAKI, Michio
NAKAMURA, Jozo
n
OKABAYASHI, Kiyo
1n
MIZUTANI, Nobuo
n
MIZUTANI, Yasuko
n
NAKANISHI, Isao
OGURA, Masao
11
NAKANISHI, Sanyo
n
AMATATSU, Tadao
1n
KIYOHARA, Michihisa
11
TANAKA, Takashi
MAEDA, Hideo
1
KAWANO, Wasaku
11
IKUISHI, Tomoo
11
IKEDA, Hiroshi
11
UCHIYAMA, Hiromasa
11
ANABA, Saburo
11
URABE, Fumi
11
UCHIDA, Tomio
11
GORO, Terao
11
NISHIOKA, Michiko
11
IIMA, Tetsutaro
Fuchu Prison
MAEDA, Toyoji
SAEGUSA, Atsuzane
1n
SUDO, Seiichiro
ONO, Seiichi
MATSUNAGA, KoJiro
Kosuga Práso
KOITABASHI.Sho1ch1

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.91)
MIURA, Nomizo
SASAKI, Michio
NAKAMURA, Jozo
OKABAYASHI, Kiyo
0
MIZUTANI, Nobuo
MIZUTANI, Yasuko
n
NAKANISHI, Isao
n
OGURA, Masao
n
NAKANISHI, Sanyo
1n
AMATATSU, Tadao
n
KIYOHARA, Michihisa
n
TANAKA, Takashi
n
MAEDA, Hideo
n
KAWANO, Wasaku
11
IKUISHI, Tomoo
11
IKEDA, Hiroshi
11
UCHIYAMA, Hiromasa
11
ANABA, Saburo
!1
URABE, Fum1
11
UCHIDA, Tomio
11
GORO, Terao
11
NISHIOKA, Michiko
11
IIMA, Tetsutaro
MAEDA, Toyoji
Fuchu Prison
SAEGUSA, Atsuzane
11
SUDO, Sefichiro
11
ONO, Seiichi
11
11
MATSUNAGA, Kojiro
KOITABASHI, Shoichi
Kosuga Pris on
mell
NASUDA, Kei
CONFIDEN TIAL

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners released after the War ( Page 2 )
Name
Locattion
MIKI,Tokuchika
Kosuga Prison
TAMEGA, MibBuo
11
YOSHIKAWA, Yoshitaro
Shibuya Police Station
YOSHIZAWA, Tadabumi
Yotsuya
11
1"
MIYA, Naoji
YOYOGI
11
NOHARA, Shiro
Suginami
11
11
KAMIYAMA, Shigeo
Tokyo Detention Center
TOMISHIMA, Wiji
vokohama Prison
Sugiura, Masabin
11
TANAKA, Gizo
11
PAGUCHI, Toshiro
11
YAMAKAWA, Nobuhiro
HARADA, Kaoru
11
VANAHARA, Shulchi
11
ALITA, Minoru
11
YOSHIKANA, Tomizo
11
HASEGANA, iroshi
11
SAKAI, Sadakichi
11
MAZANA, Kaku
11
RI-Ten
11
MIYAKE, Eanichi
KCTKE, Wideo
11
NULAKANI, Yoshio
11
WAPANABE, PDOR
11
OF UEO, Monzo
Kuki Police Station
OFUBO, Mitauru
Chiba Prison
NAYANURA, Sadao
11
MORIYOSHI, Odashima
Mito Prison
TAKAHASHI, Haruyo
11
MORI, Pukuyoshi
!1
2

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Pricon-rs released after the War ( Page 3 )
Name
Location
HAKOSAKI, Masuo
Mito Prison
TACHIKAWA, Mitsue
t
KURIHARA, Hyakuju
11
NUMATA, Hidesato
11
KAFUGA, Shoichi
Utsunomiya Prison
YAMAGISHI, Misao
Tochigi Branch Prison
NISHIOKA, Junko
11
NCS", Sadako
11
YAMAGISHI, Hiroshi
Meebashi Prison
VOsnIDA, Kenji
11
SATO, Koji
11
YOSHIDA, Yasunobu
Kofu Prison
HAYAKAWA, Tatsusaburo
Nagano Prison
HINO, Miyoshi
1"
KOBAYSAHI, Nasa
11
SHIMADA, Koichi
MIYAZAWA, Vunimatau
HASHIMCTO, Sahichi
SATO, Shonosuke
11
NAKAGAMI, Lohisaku
i1
FANEMITSU, Conichi
11
FUTAMRA, HISaich
11
MURAI, Wasui
11
TSUNETA, keijiro
1
Jo-Kyo
11
Ri-Guoku-Ran
11
0-Ko-Sho
11
Cho-G1-Tei
11
Kan-Mo-Sal
11
KAWazoE, Takayuki
Niigata Prison
TGALASHI, ChuJi
11
3

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 4 )
Name
Location
ASHIDA, Haru
Kyoto Prison
IWAMOTO, Iwao
11
OKAMOTO, Hiroaki
TSUDA, Kazuhiko
11
TADA, Tameharu
Osaka Prison
KITAGAWA, Munezo
11
TAGUCHI, Kenichi
11
YASUDA, Mitsuo
11
TAKABAYASHI, Yoshiyuki
11
TAKENAKA, Yoshiro
11
IHARA, Keihin
11
SHIGEMURA, Eiko
11
HIROTA, Heike1
11
NOGUCHI, Toshio
11
KOEZU, Shigemasu
11
TAKAGI, Taku
KCSHIKAWA, Nasataka
1
MORI, Tejichi
11
YOSHIMOTO, Feicho
11
SATO, Koshaku
11
KIVOI, Sodo
11
HENYA, Togyo
11
NAGATA, Genji
11
NACASAWA, Muryu
11
TOMURA, Chinji
11
MATSUCKA, Harumoto
11
Go-Shin
11
OTSUBO, Jigon
11
OGAWA, KiichI
11
HASHIMOTO, Seiichi
4

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Polit ical Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 5 )
Name
Location
KADOBAYASHI, Yoshio
Osaka Prison
MIYAJI, Asayasu
n
SAKAI, Toyoichi
11
KINOSHITA, Etsuji
11
HAII, Shoji
ISHIGURI, Yoshio
11
SAKURAI, Koji
11
ISHIHARA, Jise1
11
OKUJO, Seizo
11
YAMAMOTO, Saijiro
11
MORI, SakujI
KONISHI, KoJiro
11
YASUiARA, Hideharu
11
TOYODA, Rikichi
11
ITONAGA, Motomu
11
IKEDA, Kiyoshi
11
KANENITSU, Seikei
SUDO, Kazumitsu
11
NIIMI, Tounetoshi
11
NATSUNOTO, Saburo
17
KURIHARA, Hiroshi
11
KANEN ITSU, Nemich
f1
YOKOYAMA, TXTakeshi
11
KANFMITSU, Hideo
11
SHIMIZU, Munesuke
11
YASUHARA, Hideo
t1
OZAKI, Shotaro
11
NAKAGANA, Ryuichi
11
MINEYANA, Fumicuke
1!
MURASAWA, Sukenori
11
NISHIMURA, Shiro
11
HOSHIYANA, Hoshun
11
KITAMOTO, Toyosaburo
5

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the We ( Page 6)
Neme
Location
FUJIMOTO, Zenemon
Osaka Prison.
IWAHARA, Hirohobu
11
OHARA, TakI
11
MATSUYAMA, Shushoku
11
KANAZAWA, Noritsuru
11
ARAI, Renchiku
11
NAKANO, Yoshio
11
TANAKA, Negahide
11
MATSUBARA, Shiro
11
OOKA, Kinji
ti
ONISHI, Aijiro
Osaka Detention Center
IWATA, Genemon
11
KISHIOFA, Satoru
11
KOURA, Yoshic
11
MATSUI, Hatsutaro
Kobe Detention Center
UEMATSU, Isaburo
11
Go-Oh
1
TAMAYANA, Taro
Nara Prison
HeRIUCnI, Nakahatsu
11
MATSUMOTO, Tsunekichi
DAILON, Yoshio
11
OKAMOTO, Yonezo
Shiga Prison
OKAMOTO, Adere
11
MOTO, Ishimatsu
11
SUZUKI, Heijiro
11
ISHII, kyutaro
11
SASAYA, Gembei
11
NAEMURA, Ichiro
11
IZUNI, Keitaro
11
MASANORI, Ishii ( Last Name )
11
KUZUMI, Fusa
Wakayuma Branch Prison
6

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 7 )
Name
Location
KAGAWA, Tsuma
Wakayama Branch Prison
KOSHIBA, Ruse
TANAKA, Keishi
Nagoya Prison
HONDA, Masaichi
MITSUDA, HaruJi
TAKAGI, Kuniharu
11
HANAYANA, Genkei
11
FUJITA, Toichi
11
OTA, Rasayuki
11
Kimbara, Hatsuo
11
TAKAYAMA, Laijitsu
11
NISHIKIDA, Iwao
11
MIYATA, Shigeru
11
OFA..A, Kashaku
11
Rln-Gen-Ko
11
SHINIZU, Koichi
11
ISHI, Nobuo
SHizuoka Prison
Ryu-Haku-Fu
11
Seki-Haku-Nan
11
YOSHIDA, Fisao
Nie Prison
NAKANISHI, Goshu
11
KITAGA4, Yonezo
11
SHIO, Novo ( !ast Neme )
Gifu Prison
NISHIKUBO, Katauro
11
SATO, Lakulchi
11
NAKA P A, Punzo
Psurumi-machi Branch Prison
SUZUKI, Naonobu
11
Oh UhA, Nikichi
Lanazawe Prison
HAMADA, Elichi
11
So-Hitsu-Min
11
7

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 8 )
Name
Location
MIZUGUCHI, Masashi
Kanazawa Prison
OTO, Ryugen
11
GONDO, Eikan
OHARA, Hisao
11
Kiychara, Yoshinori
11
KANAYANA, L.Iyotake
11
OYAMA, Minehiro
f1
YAMAMOTO, Fidenosuke
11
C-Kan-Ketsu
Toyama Branch Pris on
Yo-Bun-Ki
"
Chin-En-Ko
11
Ko-Ho-hei
11
J-Zui-Do
11
Kyo-Den-Kyo
ff
hi-Chi-Chu
11
Ba-Goku-Shin
11
Yo-Sen-Tei
11
YAMAeTO, Mitsunoti
11
FIKA A, Keni
Iroshima Prison
KADONTIAFT, Patsuhira
Okayama Prison
KANEJIMA, Teruji
Matsue Prison
TAETUCHI, Tako
NISHIDA, Tsao
11
SUGINOTO, Hirok
Liyasi Prison
TAYASHIMA, Shigeru
11
KAMIYAMA, Toshio
11
NISHIOKA, Keizaburo
11
HORIE, Soichi
11
HOSHIYAMA, Mitsuteru
!1
YeSHIRO, Yoshinobu
YAMADA, Shigeshig
f1
8

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.87)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisonars Peleased efter the War ( Page 9 )
Name
Location
KISHIMOTO, Sligeo
Miyagi Prison
YASUDA, Jouritsu
1n
KANENOTO, Terukuni
f1
Rizu-Za1-K1
Kin-Shi-Hitsu
11
MORIYAMA, Mitsumasa
11
KANDA, Omba
11
KUNINOTO, Masao
11
SHIRAKAWA, Nobumichi
11
KAWAI, Etsuz
11
AKAMATSU, e
11
AKASHI, Jung
11
NISHIYAWA, Hikoyosht
11
KUNIMOTO, Honsabur
11
CNC, Yeshihiko
11
SATO, Kinzo
11
FUDA, EiJ
11
OKA, Yunio
11
HANA, Takeshl
11
KASUa, Sh jip
11
TAKENAKA, Teunosabur
11
JOHINo, Soj!
11
KAWAI, Sadakichi
11
KAMIYAmA. Nasaharu
TanDA. Shuro
11
AFIYAMA, Koji
11
AKAPA, Hisashi
11
HASE, Yenkich:
11
PIYAZAA, Hiroyuki
11
CHIPA. Hideo
ETJIYATA, Hisataka
11
KOYAYA, SHIgesaburo
Morioka Juvenile Prison
YRAUSEN, Max
Akita Prison
9

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
Political Prisoners Released efter the War ( Page10 )
Name
Location
TAYAMA, Kojun
Akita Pris on
ABE, Masao
YOSHIOKA, Yoshic
Aomori Prdson
ITO, Kaoru
Sapporo Prison
KANEKO, Tadashi
11
RiH-Shu-Moku
11
WARANAPE, Seiki
11
CHOON, Sn
11
KUMATA, Masago
HIROTA. Yoryu
11
RAKAA. Li
11
YUrAnanl. Yeshi
11
HASEGATA, TsuruJI
11
Ho-San-Retsu
11
WAHAMURA, Taku
11
SANUKI, Tokuyoshi
MOMOKI, Kyoshu
11
TAHAHA, RO
WATANAB", Naritsuna
11
AGANA. LZuO
11
 ueichi
11
HIoTAI, SnunJi
11
KATo, masaichi
11
YOSHINAGA, Hokichi
11
TAKASHI, Nantaro
11
YAJIUA, Takeshi
11
Sai-Gen-Tei
i1
Sei-Gai-Kyo
11
YArAZAKI, Sokun
11
KAYAMA, Tan
11
IWAMOTO, Shokoku
11
10

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 11 )
Name
Location
Kichi-Gen-Moku
Sapporo Prison
KITA, Yukiaki
11
Ryo-Ko-Ryu
11
Igarashi, Hisaya
11
KAWAGUCHI, inzo
KIKUVA, Iwasaburo
11
UMEHARA, Tsutomu
11
KCJIMA, Hatsutaro
YAMASHITA, Shuichi
11
TANIYAMA, Tomitaro
11
Go-Han-Do
11
KOSHINO, Yozo
11
"ATSUBARA, Genkichi
it
YASUKAWA, Yoshio
YONEMORI, Chobe
SHIRAKAWA, Iyo
11
Tei-Kei-Roku
11
HANAGASAKI, Kaichi
11
HASrGAWA, Arinobu
11
YANANA, Masami
11
YAMASHITA, Buni
11
YASUNORI, Arinori
Daitsu Branch Prison
Cho-Jun-Sei
19
OSA A, Shinji
11
SHIBASAKI, Yochiharu
11
SATO, Akio
Hakodate Juvenile Pris on
EANEko, Naomasa
!1
TOKUNO, Eiho
Abashiri Pris on
MUROT, Hachiro
11
KASHIWADANI, Katsuo
11
KANAISHI, Takeo
11
11

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 12 )
Name
Location
MATSUDAIRA, Giichi
Abashiri Prison
NAKAMURA, Shuichi
TAGUCHI, Ugenta
0-Shuku-Shi
UENC, Masakichi
11
OKUBO ( MIYAZAKI ),Gonjiro
KIRIHIRA, Taizo
Kushiro Branch Pris on
KANAI, Scibai
Obihiro Prison
MIYOBHI, Yoshitaka
Yamaguchi Prison
KIYCSHIGE, Kenichi
11
KAKU-Ei-Koi
11
TOKUYAMA, Hidemoto
11
KANIE, Hisamoto
11
Boku-Jaku-Yu
11
ISHII, Snojiro
11
NOSAKA, Shizuto
1
TAKEUCHI, Kazumi
11
KINoSHITA, Ckiyoshi
11
PUJII, KanjI
11
Jei-Ko-En
11
Ka-To-Shun
”
Ko-Sei-Chin
11
ISHIHAMA, Yoshinori
11
KATSUMI,  ura ( Last Name )
11
SATO, Iwao
Iwakuni Juvenile Prison
YAJINA, Shyuzo
Negsaki Prton
VAHALOTO, Shici
11
Kin-He 1-Go
11
Yc-Sei-Hi
11
MATOBA, Seikichi
11
FUJII, Hiroichi
11
12

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.85)
CONFIDENTIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the Wer (
NAKAHIRA, Kazuak1
Saga Juvenile Prt
MORI, Tokihiko
Dotemachi"Branch Pri
MORINAGA, Toshio
n
SHIKASHO, Yoshiharu
n
SHIKASHO, Rokuro
n
KUMAGAYA, K1
n
SHIMA, Shinji
HIRAKA"A, ideo
Fukuoka Police Station
SHIN IZU, shōzō
Fukuoka Pris on
L.ASAC, Ishida ( Last Name )
1"
SUGINOTO, hiroshI
FIYONG, Eikichi
1"
HAP ATSU, Yost'ketsu
THRADA, Mitsugu
11
HAYANA, Yoshihau
11
SHIGEOKA, Hideitsu
11
SHIoL.UhA. Neisaku
LURANOTO, kazuo
11
Yin-San-Ju
11
AIZA A, atsuihI
11
ANA, 
11
YOSHIRURA, Lasatsu,
11
LITSUNCAT, Pomeo
11
SATAKE, TA
akematsu Branch Prison
ABNAT, katsuo
Pak.cka Prison
SHaku-Zen-In
lo-hal-. in
s
11
Han-hyo
11
Ma-Hin-Ha
11
5o-Sen-21
11
Ryu-Ke1-
11
KONNOPi, Tekaaki
11
URAKAWA, Tometsugu
n
13.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
Political Prisoners Released after the War ( Page 14 )
0-Shu-Ki
Fukuoka Prison
Den-To-Kai
11
FUKUOKA, Junjiro
1"
YOSHIDA, Keitaro
11
Ri-Chu-Roku
11
Ryu-Fuku-Se1
11
Rin-Ki-Ko
11
Ryu-i-Ka
11
Cho-Kei-Jun
11
Cho-Shi-Sh
1"
Kan-Mei-Ken
11
Tei-Fu
Ryu-Cho-Ei
11
Cho-Shun-Mei
11
Yo-Kan-Shun
11
Cho-Ki-Sei
11
NISHIZATO, Shizuo
Kumamoto Prison
TAKARANURA, Hiroshi
11
KANEUMI, Arine
11
OZEKI, Takashi
11
Jen-Shin-Sho
11
MIYANOTO, Lenji
Abachirs Prison
KAMECFA, Taigen
A etsuyama Prison
Fu, mitsuzo
Kochi Prison
ASAI, Soichi
Takamatsu Pris on
TSUDA, Minoru
Tok sh me Prison
Chin-Yuwa
Tolushima Police Stat ion
Ryu-I-Kei
Wakimachi Police St& ion
14

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political, Prisoners Released after the Wer ( Page 15 )
B. Under the Ministry of the Navy ( 28 persons )
Namo
Locst ion
KANEMURA, Inshyu
Sasebo Naval Prison
OHARA, Kensaku
11
KUSABA, Nansho
ARAI, Chitoku
1t
Ryo-Furi-Shu
Kainan Naval Brason
Rai-Zen-Sei
11
So-Ken-Sai
1
O-Sei-C
11
Taku-Ki-Shu
11
0-Yokun
11
SASAKI, Chu
Takao Naval Prison
KAWAHATA, Tsunekichi
Sasebo Naval Pris on
HIRANC, Itsusen
11
OSHIRO, Shoko
11
Ko-Iki-Retsu
11
AYANASU, Kinan
11
NAKAF, Manjisbu
11
NIYAMA, Manchin
11
TAKASHINA, HeiJun
11
MIZUHARA, Masaji
11
NISHIOKA, Hoikaku
11
SHIMA, Sakutaro
Ominat o Naval Prison
ONO, Hisamitsu
11
KITAMURA, Tatsuki
11
KUROTA, Masaaki
11
KATAMOTO, Suehiro
11
YASUOKA, Joshin
11
SAGARA, Meikei
11
C. Under the Ministry of War ( 1 e rson )
KASHII, Chiyoichi
Osaka Military Pris on
15

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDEN TIAL
Political Prisoners Released by Directive, 4 October, 1945
Name
Reason for arrest
IIBUCHI, Keitaro
Suspected Communist
IMAMURA, Hideo
Communist Par ty Member
KAMBAYASHI, Teijiro
Liberal professor
KAMEI, Toyoji
Writer of Communist and Socialist
article s.
KAMETANI, Eizo
Suspected Communist
FANIYAMA, Shige
CP Member
KAWANO, Nasaku
Labor leader-opposed war
YAWAKAMI, Kenichiro
Suspected Communist
Kin Ten Kai
Head Korean CP in Japan
KISHI, Masaru
CP Member
KITANUKI, KOzO
11
KOUCHI, Kimo to
Suspected Commins t
KUMATA, MaSeg-
11
VURIHARA, Nomoji
"
11
CURCKI, Shigenori
OP Member
TOKUDA, Eyuichi
11
FATSUPOTO, Pazumi
11
MITAVURA, Shis
11
MIZUTANI, Nobuo
Suspected Communis t
MIZUTANI, Yasuko ( ife )
!"
NAKANISHI, Sanyo
UP ember
NAYANISHI, Tsutomu
Susp. Communist. Charged aIso with
being an espionage agent for Chinese
CP. Sentenced to death; reduced to
life; release date unknown.
NAKAYAMA, Kumetar
Suspected Communit
HASEGA A, Taminosuke
11
IMIYA, Masaichi
CF Nember
KAMIYANA, Toshio
11
EADONG, Shinshi
Suspected Communis t
VINOSHITA, Etsuji
tt
21d1℃

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDEN TIAL
2.
KITAGAWA, SozO
Suspected Communist
KOSHIKAWA, Masahiro
CP Member
KURIHARA, Hakuji
MORI, Teichi
Suspected Communist
NOGUCHI, Toshio
11
SHIOMI, Hiromu
CP member
SHOJI, -aode
Suspectod Jommunist
SuuimCTo, rumio
OP Lember
A..A, yotaro
11
hhll, maseji
11
UCHIDA, Jokichi
Socialist
TAI uhA, Lasaru
Suspected Jommunist
TA SuNO, Yasuo
1!
Yeshisa, loshio
ANEHA. Saburo
11
HAKOZAKI, asuo
Labor left wing agitator
HAYASHIDA, Hidetosh
socialist
, 
Leftist. Prob. Communist
HIdUCHI, Hiroteshi
-iberal views
IRAN ATSU, Yasuhira
Active in labor movement
HIROSE. Ume
Suspected Jommunist
HONDA, Shoicni
11
NAKANISHI, GOShu
11
NA A, ToichI
11
NISHIZAWA, TakaJi
 Nember
NUMATA, Hideseto
Susp. Communist. Liberal Prof.
OGURA, Masao
11
OKAWA, Keizo
11
SHIBAYAMA, Yoshiheru
11
SHIGA, Yoshio
CP Hember
SHIRAI, Saben
Socialist
SANUKI, Noriyoshi
Susp. Communist
TADA, Tomeji
C Member
TORII, YoshIjiro ( Kojiro )
Socialist

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
3
Suspected Communist
TAKAGUCHI, Tetsuo
TANAKA, Takashi
CP Member
TASHIMA, Yoshiyuki
11
TERASHIMA, Chikazo
11
TOKUDA, Kyuighi
Susp. Communist
WATADA, Iwao
11
WATANABE, Osamu
11
YAMABE, Kentaro
11
YANAGUCHI, Takaki
11
YAMAMOTO, Hiroji
CP Nember
YAMAUCHI, Jir o
11
HAKAMADA, Satomi
Susp. Communist
ISHIKAWA, Ataushi
11
KANEYA, Katsuo
11
KAWAI, Etsuzo
11
KAWAI, Teikichi
CP Nember
KITAGAYA, Yonezc
Communist sympathizer
KUMAGAE, Takashi
OF Wember
MCRI, Fukuyoshi
Labor movem nt
MORINAPA, Toshio
Suspectod Communict
NISHIrA 7A, Hideyoshi
Socialist
ODAJINA, MorIyosh:
Sommunist sympathizer
CKA, Kunic
Susp. Communist
ONO, Junzo
11
Liberal prof.
ONO, Yoshihiko
Communist sympathizer
SeJI, Uchino
Susp. Communist
SUDO, Hako
Labor movement
TAKADA, Shuro
Susp. Commun is t
AKABANT. Hisachi
11
AKIYAMA, Koji ( Frank )
11
ABE, Tsurumatsu
3

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDEN TIAL
CP Member
IGARASHI, Kyuya
Labor movement
KUWABARA, Hajime
KURTHARA, Daizo
CP Member
MISHIMURA, Shiro
11
KUIRHARA, Taisaku
Susp. Communist
MIYATA, Shigen
CP Member
MORITA, Michisuke
Labor movement
MURAKAMI, Yukari
4

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
Subject: Japan Communist Party Orgenimat
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim hast
to transmit eight copies of a special artie
the Military Intelligence Section's Periodi
issue number 39 of April 15, 1949, ent1tled
Communist Party Organizational Terminology
Most of the terms listed represent standard
communist nomenclature; aome of the terms, however
are peculiar only to the Japan Communist Party.
Attention is especially invited to section seven
enclosed article which discusses the importance or
standardized terminology in dealing with communist
party organization and activities. This problem has
been considerably complicated in Japan by the peouliari
ties of the Japanese language and the general lack of
understanding among Japanese of the organizational
structure of the comunist party.
Enclosure:
"Japan Communist Party
.Organizational Terminology"
issue no. 39 of Periodical
Summary, prepared by Militery
Intelligence Section, GH,
SCAP (eight copies).
ce retained
in NA
Parchment Mat to Department.
X 085276
350.21
CNSpinks:mhp
SECRET

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
Hahelons of the Japen Communist Party
4. Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus
5. Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
6. Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7. Impcrtance of a Standard JCP Terminology
1. Introdretion:
Th.e crganisational complexity of the Japan Communist Party (Jop)
to this Larg .mber of new tenns employed by the Communist Party is the
necessity fo: trunslating these terms into English. This article is de
signed to establish e standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ
ten in Roman letters) translations which vill end the present confusion
conceming terns used by the JCF and to standardize their usage.
To faci'itate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini
tions of terms have been placed under major classifications. The standord
Romaji names and translations of the :ost important Party terms are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (page SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP organizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended.
The most frequently used mis-translations of JCP terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such terms. The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consuited for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Tinkai): The Central Comnittee of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy between the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central Committee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Central Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Iinkai): A Re ional Comnittee of the JCP
embraces several Prefect tral Committees and can be consiuered to be opera-
tional in scope raher than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially autacrized by the Sixth National Congreas of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitution provides that the head of a Regional Conmittee will
be elected by the Regional Comnittee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Commiutees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Centrel Committee or of the Central Conmittee Candidate Pool.
Each Regional Committee has a Standing Committee (Jonin Tinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Comnittee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most comnon misnomers for the Regional Connittee are: District
Committee, Great District Conanittee or Large District Committee.
*Note:
The bisic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terminu logy," 11 Feb 49. prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
Referer.ces also nave been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27
S E C R E T

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTTOLES
In Hokkaido, the JCF has a Greater Regional Committee (
which corresponds to the standard Regional Committee. Under t
Greater Regional Committee are Regional Comisittees which are
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest of Japen.
c. Prefectural Committee (Ken Tinkai): The Prefectural Committ
the JCP are directly under the Regional Committees and are headed by a Chal
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee are: District Bom
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central.Committee
or Prefectural Council. The Chairman of a Prefectural Committee should not
be referred to as Chief Communist or leading Communist.
COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Committee
(Chuo Iinkai)
Regional Committee
(Chiho Tinkai)
Prefectural Committee
(Ken Iinkai)
District Committee
or
(Chiku Iinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun.)
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Seibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
d. District Committee (Chiku Iinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns.
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chair an. Frequent
errors used in reporting. on this Committee include: Regional Committee,
Branch of a Prefectural Cosmittee or Area Committee.
SPA. - 28
SECRET

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
standard Jc eehelon but is often organis
Celle or Squade alosely together and joint cos
activities is desirable. À Cell Group is a
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are oft
Cell Group Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or Squad (Han): The lowest official
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Co
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the ume oft
intemationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party heo
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Cell 1o
formed with a minimum of three members who are living or working closm
enough for mutual conmin cation. No maximum size has been esteblished for
Cells and some Cells report as many as 80 members. A coanon crroneous
designetion for Ce! js is .Lo al Pranch.
g. Fraction ( Furaxu) (Tritten in Katakana): The mos confusing of
Communist terms ar- the woras Fiaction and Faction. A Fraction is an im-
portant Party term enc means a group of JCP members vho may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells ho are placed into or recruitea from'a target
organization over which the Party wishes to establish contiol. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Jepan, a Fraction
may be either revealed or it ma operate uncer cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of botn a concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage
ment Cell: and issues orders end publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual. echelon in the Party organization but can be. at-
tached to the formal str cture at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into
echelons with the various levels of the echelon maintainine liaison and
contact with the corresponding echelon of the Party. The revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) ("ritten in Katakana) but Fraction still re-.
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Communist terminology
and it has the normal meeni of two or more groups with opposing ideas in
the same organization. This term is used in many types of orgenizations,
both Communist and non-Com unist. Followers of the severel cliques in the
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Faction.
3. Communist Position Titles:
a. Secretary General (Shoki Cho): The standard int rnational Commu-
nist term for the execitive heao of the Party within each country is Secre-
tary General. Chief Clerk or Head Clerk are not correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Corrnit  es: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any o inist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regiona. Jcrnitteeman or member of th Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Prei ctural Executive or Dist ct Director for mem-
bers of co.mittees is erro.cous anc confusing.
c. Organizers or Ors (Or gu) (Written in Katakana): The term Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Comnurist Pert and certain persons
are designated as Organizers. Althoueh cvery Party member has thc duty of
recruitin: new members and organizing ncw groups, thcy are not officially
considered as Organizers and every Communist agitator shoulc not be referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially assigned to echelon
SPA - 29
S E C R E T

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
ECTALARTICLES
as far down as District Committees but are also found op
level.
4. Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headquarters are partly
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bureaus in the various Regional
Prefectural or District headquarters and they are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly useá.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agency for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Central Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. most freguently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agency authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re-
view and approval by the Central Comittee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Headouarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Committee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than 10 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Committee Candidate Pool (Chuo Jin Kono): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool are elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Committee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu)
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8)
Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30
S E C R E T

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
(9) General Affairs Department (Somu Bu)
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Akahata Shuhitsu)
(11) Zenei (Vanguard) Department (Zenei Shukan)
(12). Youth Affairs Department (Seinen Taisaku Bu)
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chiho Gyosei
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17)
Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18)
Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Senden Bu)
5. Publications and Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau and the Control Committee occasionally pub-
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
c. Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is published by the Organization and Activities
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and irs tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Propaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publishes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication anc is a registered JCP
document. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUM - 23)
(1) Akahata (Red Flag): The official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consumption.
The term Akahata is generally used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publication
of the Conmunist Party and is for public consumptio.. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used witho't the translation.
(3) Other Fart) Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also  blish a large number
of pamphlets and Jeaflets hich are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propaganda and fund raising campaigns. kost of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP but
other Central-Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SPA - 31
SECRET

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings:
a.
National Level:
(1) National Congress or National Convention (ZenkokuxTak
regular JCP National Congress or National Convention must be held t
once each year according to Party regulations. Emergency sessione maye
called when more than one-third of the members of the Central Committoo or
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congress so demand. The
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCP and is empow-
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until the next meeting
of the Congress. It also selects members of tne Central Committee, the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Committee. The National Con-
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committee
Candidate Pool and the Cortrol Committee together with representatives from
the Frefectural Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na-
tional Convention.
(2) Nati nal Conference (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP headquarters has the authority to call a National Conference to dis-
cuss urgent Part, policies and issues which may arise in between sessions of
the National Cong:ess: A Nati nal Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Co. mittees. The.Na-
tional Conference as the authority to remove up to one-fifth of the total
membershi. of the Central Committee for cause, to elevate members of the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies createa in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable memoers and then to select addi-
tional members for the Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meetina (Sokai): The regulations of the JCF provide
that a General Meeting will be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Comnittee plus members of the Cen-
tral Conmittee Candidate Pool. The meeti:: has the power to select members
for the Political Bureau and for the Secretariat from among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tactics oi the Party.
(4) Central Comrittee Meeting (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee
is reguired to hold regu ar meetinas at least once a month according to JCP
regulations. At these mectin.s decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but cue to the presonce of many influential members on the committee,
policy decisions of great importance may be decided at regular Central Commit-
tee Meeti:gs.
b. Re ional Level:
(1) Resional Party Conference (Chiho To Kaigi): The suprame policy-
making body on the regional level is the Regional Farty Conference. This con-
ference is attende by menbers of the Regienal Com ittee, the Regi nal Commit-
tee Candidate Pool, representatives of the Profectural Conmittees within the
region and represe tatives of the Central Committee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans based on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Regional Coamittee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. Hela once eech etr, the Regional Party Co.ference mey be called into
emergency seasion upon da rectior of the Resional Con ittee or by request of
more than one-third of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committ e General Mecting (Chiho Tin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General hesting is held at least ence vei three months and is com-
posed of members of the Re ional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. The General Mecting has the authority to fill vacancies it: the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committec Candidate Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
S E C R E T

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
SPE
ARTICLES
(3) Regional Committee Meeting (Chiho
ConZATIOle Leeting refers to the regular monthly
The . ip discusses routine Regional Party affairs and
a ng committee to oversee the daily business of the rogl
tei
pecialized departments may also be established.
Prefectural Level:
! Bure
Commu
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The Prefecturul
Pa3
onference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional Party Con
feplogy. and must be convened once a year. Members of the Prefectural Commit
te
efectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordinate
Di
t Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference. This conference
el
members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap
prhe Jaland establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set-by the
Cey pec and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Payed bonference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upnto Equest of more than one-third of the District Committees.
ogy w.
n vil (2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fe stanl Committee General meeting is held at least once every three months
arcle a composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Ciajor :ee Candidate Pool. The General Meeting discusses future plans and pro-
gist if its subordinate echelons and selects replacesents for vacancies in
tr, "Coafectural Committee.
JCP o (3) Prefectural Com ittee Meeting (Ken Iinkai): Held at least once
have h the Prefectural Committee Mesting is charged with the general supervi-
temf Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
aslaticding committee to handle daily affairs of the Party and may also estab-
ity of pecial departments to su ervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
o apper these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headquarters'
rabetiments.
s art:
1. District Level: The hi hest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
t
Party Conference (Chiku To Kaigi) which meets twice each year by order
crty:
 District Comnittee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
3
in of the District Comrittee or by request of over one-third of the Party
f implct Party Conference, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Conventee. Meetings of Cell Groups and Cells are held as needed but are
ry bety convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group Ieetings normally
Com il as Gurupu Kaigi are held men their business didtates. A frequent mis-
sentatation for this term is Group Council.
nportancc of a Standard JCF Terminology:
kai)
es ancThe adoption of a standard organizational terminology for the Japan Com-
ativet Party has many advantagcs and a definite importance. First, in order
tionalcrease the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
the hid of reporting Communist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
Comminly understood by the person preparing the report. An added difficulty
e Cenje fact that the Japanese language has produced a wide variation of names
 Comommunist terms so that there ma, be several possible translations for one
ttee Itern.
the :In this report an attompt also has been mace to establish a standard term-
r Lar gy which ill conform as auch as possible to the coumon iuternational us-
of Communist terms which are employed by Comaunist Parties in countries
s artver the world. The use of this article as a reference work for official
reparedard organizational terminology of the JCP should contribute to a reater
iade tification and ease of comprehension of all articles and reports pertaining
ificane JCP.
'A - 2'
SPA - 33
C R E
S E C R E T

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY RGANIZATIONAL TERMINOLOGY
1.
Introduction
2.
Echelons of the Japan Communist Party
3.
Communist Position Titles
4.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus
5.
Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
6.
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7.
Impcrtance of a Standard JCP Terminology
Introctction:
The crganisational complexity of the Japan Communist Party (JCP) has
produced & w.ce variation of terminology peculiar only to the JCP. Added
to this largo imber of new tenns emploved by the Communist Party is the
necessity for tran-lating these terms into English. This article is de-
signed to estabiish a standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ-
ten in Roman latters) translations which vill end the present confusion
concerning terms nsed by the JCF and to standardize their usage.
To facilitate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini-
tions of terms have been placea under major classifications. The standard
Romaji names and translations of the most important Party terms are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (page SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP orgenizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended.
The most frequently used mis-translations of JCP terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such terms. The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sun-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consuited for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committce of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy between the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central Committee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Central Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Iinkai): A Regional Committee of the JCP
embraces several F efect ural Comrittees and can be considered to be opera-
tional in scope  her than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially autacrized by the Sixth National Congress of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitution provides that the heaa of a Regional Committee will
be elected by the Regional Committee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Commiutees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Central Committee or of the Central Committee Candidate Pool.
Each Regional Committee has a Standing Comrittee (Jonin Tinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Comnittee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most comnon misnomers for the Regional Comaittee are: District
Committee, Great District Comnittee or Large District Committee.
* Note:
The besic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terminclogy," 1l Feb 49, prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
Refererces also have been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27
SECRET

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
In Hokkaido, the JCp has a Greater Regional Committae Da
which corresponds to the stardard Regional Committee. Under th
Greater Regional Committee are Regional Committees which are pe
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest of Japan.
c. Prefectural Committee (Ken Tinkai): The Prefectural Committaba
the JCP are directly under the Regional Committees and are headed by a Chair
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee are: District Com
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central Committee
or Prefectural Council. The Chairman of a Prefectural Committee should not
be referred to as Chief Communist or leading Communist.
.COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Conmittee
(Chuo Iinkai)
Regional Committee
(Chiho Iinkai)
Prefectural Conimittee
(Ken Tinkai)
District Committee
or
(Chiku Iinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun)
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
d. District Committee (Chiku Iinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns.
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chair an. Frequent
errors used in reporting on this Committee include: Regional Committee,
Branch of a Prefectural Comittee or Area Committee.
SPA - 28
SECRET

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
e. Cell Group (Saibo Gun): The Cell Group or Squad Group
activities is desirable. A Cell Group is authorized to have a Cell try
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are often misnamed Joint Cells oh
Cell Group. Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or'Squad (Han): The lowest official echelon of: the
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Convention of
the JCP it was decided that the name Cell would be changed to Squad for the
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the use of the
internationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party has re-
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Cell is
formed with a minimum of three members who are living or working close
enough for mutual comnin cation. No maximum size has been esteblishtd for
Cells and some C.i!s report as many as 80 members. A coanon crroneous
designation for Ce:]s js Lo al Franch.
g Fraction (Furaku) (Vritten in Katakana): The mos't confusing of
Communist terms are tne words Fraction and Faction. A Fraction is an im-
portant Party tern enc means a ¿roup of JCP members who may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells  ho are placed into or recruitea from a target
organization over vhich the Farty vishes to establish control. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Japan, = Fraction
may be either revealed or it may operate uncer cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of both a' concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage-
ment Cell and issues orders and publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual echelon in the Party organization but can be at-
tached to the formal structure at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into
echelons with the various lovels of the echelon maintaining liaison and
contact with the corresponding echelon of the Party. The revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) ("ritten in Katakana) but Fraction still re-
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Communist terminology
and it has the normal meaning of two or more groups with opposing ideas in
the same organization. This term is used in many types of organizations,
both Communist and non-Com unist. Followers of the several cligues in the
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Factior
3. Communist Position Titlcs:
a. Secretary General (Shoki Cho): The standard intarnational Commu-
nist term for the executive heeo of the Party within each country is Secre-
tary General. Chief Clerk or Head Clerk are not correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Commitcees: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any (o nunist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regiona.. Jonnitteeman or member of the Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Preiectural Executive or Dist  ct Director for mem-
bers of conmittees is erroncous and confusing.
c. Organizers or Ors (Orugu) (Written in Katakana): The term Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Communist Party and certain porsons
are designated as Organizers. Although every Party member has tho duty of
recruiting new members and organizing ncw groups, they are not officially
considered as Organizers and every Communist agitator should not be referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially, assigned to echelons
SPA - 29
SECRET

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
as far down as District Committees but are also found
level.
4. Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headquarters are partls
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bureaus in the various Regional
Prefectural or District headquarters and they are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly useá.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agency for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Central Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. most frequently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agenc: authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re-
view and approval by the Central Comittee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Head uarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical. guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Committee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than i0 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Committee Candidate Pool (Chuo Tin Koho): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool are elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Committee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu)
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8)
Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30
S EC RET

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
(9) General Affairs Department (Somu Bu)
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Akahata Shuhitau)
(1l) Zenei (Vanguard) Department (Zanei Shukan)
(12) Youth Affairs Department (Seihen Taisaku Bu)
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chiho Gyosoi
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17)
Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18)
Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Senden Bu)
5. Publications and Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau and the Control Committee occasionally pub-
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
c. Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is published by the Organization and Activities
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and is tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Fropaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publishes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication and is a registered JCP
document. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUm - 23)
(1) Akahata (Rei Flas): The official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consum,tion.
The term Akahata is generally used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publicetion
of the Conmunist Party and is for public consumptio. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used witho't the translation.
(3) Other Party Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also publish a large number
of pamphlets and Jeaflets vihich are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propaganda and fund raising campaigns. Most of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP but
other Central Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SPA - 31
SEERET

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
6. Congresses, Conferences and Meetings:
a.. National Level:
(1) National Congress or National Convention (Zenkoku Taikal)
regular JCP National Congress or National Convention must be held at Least
once each year according to Party regulations. Emergency sessions may be
called when more than one-third of the members of the Central Committee or
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congress so demand.. The
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCP anc is empow-
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until the next meeting
of the Congress. It also selects members of the Central Committee, the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Comittee. The National Con-
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committee
Candidate Pool and the Cortrol Committee together with representatives.from
the Frefectural Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na-
tional Convention.
(2) National Confere ce (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP head uarters has the authority to call a National Conference to dis-
cuss urgent Party olicies and issues vhich ma: arise in between sessions of
the National Congress. A Mati nal Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Co.xmittees. The Na-
tional Conference as the authority to remove up to one-fifth of the total
membershi: of the Central Committee ior cause, to elevate members of the Cen-
tral Conmittee Candidate Fool to fill the vacancies createu in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable members and then to select addi-
tional members for the Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meetina (Sokai): The regulations of the JCF provide
that a General Meeting vill be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Committee plus members of the Cen-
tral Conmittee Candidate Pool. The meeting has the piwer to select members
for the Political Bureau and for the Secretariat from among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tactics oi the Party.
(4) Central Committea Meeting (Chuo Tinkai): The Central Committee
is required to nols regu ar meetings at least once a month accordin, to Jop
regulations. At these meetin's decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but cue to the presonce of many influential members on the committee,
policy decisions of great imoortance may be decided at recular Central Comait-
tee Meeti. gs.
b. Rexionel Level:
(1) Resional Party Conference (Chiho To Kaigi): The suprome policy-
making body on the regional level is the he ional Farty Conference. This con-
ference is attended by mrbers of the Regienal Conmistee, the Regional Coamit-
tee Candidate Pool, r rose.tatives of the Profsctural Committees within the
region and representatives si the Central Con: ittee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans basea on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Reglonal Conmittee and the Regio al Committee Candidate
Pool. Held once sac: yeca, the Regional Part Co. ference ma: be called into
emergency secsion upon rection of the Rexionel Co ittee or by request of
more than one-third of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committe General Mecting (Chiho Tin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General mesting is held at least once every three months and is com-
posed of members of the Re ional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Fool. The General Mecting has the authority to fill vacancies in the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committee Candidate Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
SECRET

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
Committee Mesting refars to the be
The group discusees routine Regional Party
a standing committee to oversee the daily bi
ters. Specialized departments may also be eatablia
c.
Prefectural Level:
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The
Party Conference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional PartyrO
tee, Prefectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordihate
District Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference, This conference
elects members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap-
proval and establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set by the
Central and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Party Conference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upon request of more than one-third of the District Committees.
(2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fectural Committee General meeting is held at least once every three months
and is composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Committee Candidate Pool. The General meeting discusses future plans and pro-
gress of its subordinate echelons and selects replacements for vacancies in
the Prefectural Comrittee.
(3) Prefectural Committee Meeting (Ken Iinkai): Held at least once
a month the Prefectural Committee Meeting is charged with the general supervi-
sion of Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
a standing committee to handle daily affairs of the Party and may also estab-
lish special departments to supervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
ogy of these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headquarters!
Departments.
d. District Level: The highest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
trict Party Conference (Chiku To Kaigi) which meets twice each year by order
of the District Committee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
rection of the District Comnittee or by request of over one-third of the Party
members under the jurisdiction of the District. In between meetings of the
District Party Conference, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Committee. ieetings of Cell Groups and Cells are held as needed but are
usually convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group Leetinss normally
termed as Gurupu Kaigi are held when their business dictates. A frequent mis-
translation for this torm is Group Council.
7. Importance of a Standard JCp Terminology:
The adoption of a standard organizational terminology for the Japan Com-
munist Party has many advantages and a definite importance. First, in order
to increase the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
method of reporting Communist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
report is rendered less valuable by confusing and erroneous Party terms which
are only understood by the person preparing the report. An added difficulty
is the fact that the Japanese language has produced a wide variation of names
for Communist terns so that thore ma, be several pessible translations for one
such term.
In this report an attempt also has been made to establish a standard term-
inology which ill conforr as much as possible to the conmon international us-
age of Conmunist terms which are employed by Communist Parties in countries
all over the world. The use of this article as a reference work for official
standard organizational terminology of the JCP should contribute to a. greater
clarification and ease of comprehersion of all articles and reports pertaining
to the JCP.
SPA - 33
SECRET

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
May23,1949
SPECIAL, ARTIGLES
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY RGANIZATIONAL TERMINOLOGY
1. Introduction
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party
3.
Communist Position Titles
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus
5.
Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
6.
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7. Impcrtance of a Standard JCP Terminology
1. Introcration:
The crganisational complexity of the Japan Communist Party (JCP) has
produced & w.ce variation of terminology peculiar only to the JCP. Added
to this largo limber of new tenns employed by the Communist Party is the
necessity io, translating these terms into English. This article is de-
signed to establish a standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ-
ten in Roman le'ters) translations which vill end the present confusion
concerming terns used by the JCF and to standardize their usage.
To facilitate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini-
tions of terms have been placed under major classifications. The standard
Romaji names and translations of the most important Party tems are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (pa e SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP organizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended.
The most frequently used mis-translations of JCP terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such terms. The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consuited for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Tinkai): The Central Comnittee of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy between the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central Coma ittee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Cêntral Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Tinkai): A Regional Committee of the JCP
embraces several F efectural Conurittees and can be considered to be opera-
tional in scop. ra her than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially autacriced by the Sixth National Congress of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitation provides that the heaa of a Regicnal Committee will
be elected by the Regional Committee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Commictees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Central Committee or of the Central Committee Candidate Pool.
Eaeh Regional Committee has a Standing Comrittee (Jonin Tinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Comnittee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most comnon misnomers for the Regional Conuittee are: District
Committee, Great District Coninittee or Large District Committee.
Note:
The bisic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terninclogy," 11 Feb 49, prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
Refererces also have been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
PECIAL ARTICLES
In Hokkaido, the JCP has a Greater Regional Committee (Dai Chiho li
which corresponds to the standard Regional Committee. Under the Hokkal
Greater Regional Committee are Regional Cominittees which are parallel to
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest:of Japan.
c. Prefectural Committee (Ken Iinkai): The Prefectural Committees of
the JCP are di rectly under the Regional Committees and are headed by a. Ehair-
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee are: .District Com-
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central Committee
or Prefectural Council. The Chairman of a Prefectural Committee should not
be referred to as Chief Communist or leading Communist.
COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Conmittee
(Chuo Iinkai)
Regional Committee
(Chino Iinkai)
Prefectural Committee
(Ken Iinkai)
District Comnittee
or
(Chiku Iinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun)
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
d. District Committee (Chiku Iinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns.
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chair an. Frequent
errors used in reporting on this Committee include: Regional Conmittee,
Branch of a Prefectural Conmittee or Area Committee.
SPA - 28
SECRET

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIALARTICLES
e. Cell Group (Saibo Gun): The Cell Group or Squaa Gmup
activities is desirable. A Cell Group is authorized to have a.Gel
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are often misnamed Joint Callaor
Cell Group Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or Squad (Han): The lowest official echelon of the
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Convention of
the JCP it was decided that the neme Cell would be changed to Squad for the
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the use of the
intemationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party has re-
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Cell is
formed with a minimum of three members who are living or working close
enough for mutual comarnication. No maximum size has been esteblished for
Cells and some Cc! s eport as many as 80 members. A coanon erroneous
designation for Ce. Js is Lo al Pranch.
g Fraction (Furaki) (Vritten in.Katakana): The mos' confusing of
Communist terms ar? the words Fraction and Faction. A Fraction is an im-
portant Party term ena meaas a group of JCP members vho may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells ho are placed into or recruitea from a target
organization over which the Party wishes to establish control. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Japan, a Fraction
may be either revealed or it mey cperate under cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of botn a concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage-
ment Cell and issues orders and publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual echelon in the Party organization but can be at-
tached to the formal structure at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into
echelons with the various levels of the echelon maintaining liaison and
contact with the corresponding echelon of the Party. The revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) (Written in Katakana) but Fraction still re-
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Conmunist terminology
and it has the normal meening of two or more groups with opposing ideas in
the same organization. This term is used in many types of organizations,
both Communist and non-Communist. Followers of the several cliques in the
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Faction.
3. Communist Position Titlcs:
a. Secretary General (Shcki Cho): The standard international Commu-
nist term for the executive head of the Party within each country is Secre-
tary General. Chief Clerk or Head Clerk are not correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Commitcees: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any (o munist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regiona. Jonnitteeman or member of the Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Prefectural Executive or Dist  ct Director for mem-
bers of committees is erroncous and confusing.
c. Organizers or Ors (Orugu) (Written in Katakana): The term Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Communist Party and certain persons
are designated as Organizers. Although cvery Party member has tho duty of
recruiting new members and organizing now groups, thcy are not officially
considered as Organizers and every Communist agitator should not be referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially assigned to echelons
SPA - 29
SECRE

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
as far down as District Committees but are also found ope
level.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headquartera.arerpartly
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bureaus in the various Regional,
Prefectural or District headquarters and they are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly used.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agency for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Central Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. Most freguently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agenc: authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re-
view and approval by the Central Comnittee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Headguarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Committee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than 10 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Committee Candidate Pool (Chuo Tin Koho): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool ere elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Committee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu)
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8)
Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30
S.EC.RET

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
(9) General Affairs Department (Somu Bu)
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Akahata Shuhitsu)
(11) Zenei (Vanguard) Department (Zanei Shukan)
(12)
Youth Affairs Department (Seinen Taisaku Bu)
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chiho Gyosel
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17)
Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18)
Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Senden Bu)
5. Publications and Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau and the Control Committee occasionally pub-
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
c. Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is publishea by the Organization and Activities
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and is tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Propaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publisnes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication and is a registered JCP
document. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUM - 23)
(1) Akahata (Red Flag): The official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consumption.
The term Akahata is generaily used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publicetion
of the Conmunist Party and is for public consumptio.. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used witho't the translation.
(3) Other Farty Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also publish a large number
of pamphlets and Jeaflets which are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propaganda and fund raising campaigns. Most of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP but
other Central Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SPA - 31

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings:
a.
National Level:
(1) National Congress or National Convention (Zenkokuralka)
regular JCP National Congress or National Convention must be hold t
once each year according to Party regulations. Emergency sessions may be
called when more than one-third of the members of the Central Committeo or
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congress so demand. The
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCP and is empow-
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until the next meeting
of the Congress. It also selects members of the Central Committee, the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Committee. The National Con-
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committee
Candidate Pool and the Cortrol Committee together with representatives from
the Prefectural Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na-
tional Convention.
(2) National Conference (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP headquarters has the authority to call & National Conference to dis-
cuss urgent Party policies and issues which ma, arise in between sessions of.
the National Congress. A National Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Comittees. The Na-
tional Conference as the authority to remove up to one-fifth of the total
membershi. of the Central Committee for. cause, to elevate members of tne Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Fool to fill the vacancies created in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable members anc then to select addi-
tional members for the Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meeting (Sokai): The regulations of the JCP provide
that a General Meeting will be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Committee plus members of the Cen-
tral Conmittee Candidate Pool. The mectins has the power to select members
for the Political Bureau and for the Secretariat fron among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tactics oí the Party.
(4) Central Commi tee Meeting (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee
is required to hold ree lar mestings at least once a month accordins to JCP
regulations. At these mectin's decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but due to the presonce of many influential members on the conmittee,
policy decisions of great importance may be decided at regular Central Commit-
tee Meetings..
b. Re ionel Level:
(1) Regional Party Conference (Chiho To Keigi): The suprame policy-
making body on the regional level is the hegional Farty Conference, This con-
ference is attended by ambers of the Regienal Conmittee, the Regi nal Conmit
tee Candidate Pool, representatives of the Profectural Committees within the
region and representatives ef the Ceneral Committee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans based on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Regional Cormittee and the Rogional Committee Candidate
Pool. Held once each yuar, the Regional Party Co ference mey be called into
emergeney secsion upon d rection. of the Regional Cos ittec or by request of
more than onc-thira of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committec General Meeting (Chiho Tin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General heeting is held at least once evei three months and is com-
posed of members of the Re ional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. The General Mecting has the authority to fill vacancies in the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committec Candidat. Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
SECRET

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
(3) Regional Committee Meeting (Chiho Tinkhi)
Committee lieeting refers to the regular monthly meeting of this
The group discusses routine Regional Party affairs and has thepe
a standing committee to oversee the daily business of the regional
ters. Specialized departments may also be established.
c. Prefectural Level:
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The Prefectural
Party Conference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional Party Con
ference and must be convened once a year. Members of the Prefectural Commit-
tee, Prefectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordinate
District Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference. This conference
elects members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap-
proval and establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set by the
Central and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Party Conference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upon request of more than one-third of the District Committees.
(2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fectural Committee General eeting is held at least once every three months
and is composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Committee Candidate Pool. The General meetin discusses future plans and pro-
gress of its subordinate echelons and selects replacements for vacancies in
the Prefectural Comrittee.
(3) Prefectural Committee Meeting (Ken Iinkai): Held at least once
a month the Prefectural Comaittee meeting is charged with the general supervi-
sion of Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
a standing committee to handle daiiy affairs of the Party and may also estab-
lish special departments to supervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
ogy of these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headquarters!
Departments.
d. District Level: The highest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
trict Party Conference (Chiku To Kaigi) which mests twice each year by order
of the District Committee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
rection of the District Comnittee or by request of over one-third of the Party
members under the jurisdiction of the District. In between meetings of the
District Party Conference, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Comnittee. leetings of Cell Groups and Cells are held as needed but are
usually convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group  eetings normally
termcd as Gurupu Kaigi are held when their business dictates. A frequent mis-
translation for this torm is Group Council.
7. Importance of a Standard JCF Terminology:
The adoption of a standard organizational terminology for the Japan Com-
munist Party has many advantages and a definite importance. First, in order
to increase the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
method of reporting Communist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
report is rendered less valuable by confusing and erroneous Party terms which
are only understood by the person preparing the report. An added difficulty
is the fact that the Japanese language has produced a wide variation of names
for Communist terms so that there ma, be several possible tranelations for one
such term.
In this report an attompt also has been mace to establish a standard term-
inology which ill conform as much as possible to the cormon international us-
age of Conmunist terms which are employed by Communist Parties in countries
all over the world. The use of this article as a reference work for official
standard organizational terminology of the JCP shoulo contribute to a greater
clarification and ease of comprehersion of all articles and reports pertaining
to the JCP.
SPA - 33

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
SPECIALARTICLES
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY RGANIZATICNAL TERMINOLO
1. . Introduction
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party
3. Communist Position Titles
Central Headquarters Departments and. Bureaus
5.
Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7. Impcrtance of a Standard JCP Terminology
1.
Introduction:
The crganizataonal complexity of the Japan Communist Party (JCP) has
produced & w.ce veriation of terminology peculiar only to the JCP. Added
to this larg: imber of new tenns employed by the Communist Party is the
necessity for translating these terms into English. This article is de-
signed to establish a standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ-
ten in Roman letters) translations which vill end the present confusion
concerming terns used by the JCF and to standardize their usage,
To facilitate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini-
tions of terms have been placed under major classifications. The standard
Romaji names ana t anslations of the most important Party terms are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (page SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP organizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended,
The most frequently used mis-translations of JC? terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such tenms. The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consuited for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Comnittee of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy etween the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central C.ittee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Central Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Iinkai): A Regional Committee of the JCP
embraces several Frefectural Committees and can be considered to be opera-
tional in seope ra her than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially autacrized by the Sixth National Congress of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitulion provides that the head of a Regicnal Committee will
be elected by the Regional Committee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Commiutees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Centrel Committee or of the Central Committee Candidate Pool.
Each Regional Committee has a Standing Committee (Jcnin Tinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Committee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most common misnomers for the Regional Committee are: District
Committee, Great District Comnittee or Large District Committee.
* Note:
The basic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terminclogy," 11 Feb 49, prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
Refererces also have been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27
SFCBEm

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
CIAL ARTICLES
In Hokkaido, the JCF has a Greater Regional Committee (Dal n
which corresponds to the standard Regional Committee. Under thoh
Greater Regional Committee are Regional Comcittees which are paralle
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest of Japan.
c. Prefecturel Committee (Ken Iinkai): The Prefectural Committeas
the JCP are directly under the Regional Committees and are headed by a Chair
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee are: District Com
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central Committee.
or Prefectural Council: The Chairman of a Prefectural Committee should not
be referred to as Chief Communist or leading Communist.
COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Committee
(Chuo Tinkei)
Regional Committee
(Chiho Iinkai)
Prefectural Committee
(Ken Iinkai)
District Committee
or
(Chiku Iinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun)
(Saibo)
Cell
(Saibo)
Cell
(Seibo)
Cell
(Saibo)
Cell
(Saibo)
Cell
(Saibo)
Cell
d. District Committee (Chiku Iinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns.
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chairman. Frequent
errors used in reporting on this Comnittee include: Regional Committee,
Branch of a Prefectural Coamittee or Area Committee.
SPA - 28
SECRET

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
Cell Group (Saibo Gun): The Cell Group or Squad Gr
activities is desirable. A Cell Group is authorized to have a Cell
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are often misnamed'Joint Collm ory
Cell Group Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or Squad (Han): The lowest official echelon of the
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Convention of
the JCP it was decided that the name Cell would be changed to Squad for the
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the use of the
internationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party has re-
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Cell is
formed with a minimum of three members who are living or working close
enough for mutual cemminication. No maximum size has been esteblished for
Cells and some Cclis eport as many as 80 members.. A coianon erroneous
designation for Ce!js. js Lo al Pranch.
g. Fraction (Furaku) (Tritten in Katakana): The most confusing of
Communist terms ar- the words Fraction and Faction. A. Fraction is an im-
portant Party tera enc means a group of JCP members vho may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells ho are placed into or recruitea from a target
organization over which the Party wishes to establish control. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Japan, a Fraction
may be either revealed or it may operate under cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of both a concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage-
ment Cell and issues orders and publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual echelon in the Party organization-but can be at-
tached to the formal structure at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into
echelons with the various levels of the echelon maintaining liaison and
contact with the corresponding eckelon of the Party. The revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) (ritten in Katakana) but Fraction still re-
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Communist terminology
and it has the normal meaning of two. or more groups with opposing ideas in
the same organization. This term is used in many types of organizations,
both Communist and non-Comunist. Followers of the several cliques in the
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Faction.
3. Communist Position Titlcs:
a. Secretary General (Shoki Cho): The standard intarnational Commu-
nist term for the executive head of the Party within eacn country is Secre-
tary General.  Chief Clerk or Head Clerk are not correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Commitcees: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any Co munist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regiona. Jonnitteeman or member of th: Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Prefectural Executive or Dist ict. Director for mem-
bers of committees is erroncous and confusing.
c. Organizers or Ors (Orugu) (Written in Katakana): The term Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Communist Party and certain persons
are designated as Organizers.  Althoueh every Party member has thc duty of
recruiting new members and organizing new groups, they are not officially
considered as Organizers. and every Communist agitator should not be referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially assigned to echelons
SPA - 29 
SECRET

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
as far down as District Committees but are also found operating
level.
4.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headquarters are partly
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bureaus in the various Regional,
Prefectural or District headquarters and they are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly usea.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agency for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Central Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. most freguently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agency authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re-
view and approval by the Centrel Comittee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Headguarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Committee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than 10 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Comnittee Candidate Pool (Chuo Iin Koho): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool are elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Comnittee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu)
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8)
Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30
SECRET

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL·ARTICLES
(9) General Affairs Department (Somu Bu)
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Akahate Shuhitau)
(11) Zenei (Vanguard) Department (Zanei Shukan)
(12)
Youth Affairs Department (Seineh Taiaaku Bu)
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chiho Gyosol
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17) Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18) Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Senden Bu)
5. Publications and Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau.and the Control Committee occasionally pub-
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
c. Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is published by the Organization and Activities
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and is tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Propaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publishes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication and is a registered JCP
document. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUm - 23).
(1) Akahata (Red Flag): The official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP-is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consum,tion.
The term Akahata is generally used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publication
of the Communist Party and is for public consumptio.. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used witho't the translation.
(3) Other Party Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also publish a large number
of pamphlets and Jeaflets which are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propaganda and fund raising campaigns. Most of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP.but
other Central Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SFA - 31

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
Congresses:Conferences and Meetings:
National Level:
(1) National Congress or National Convention (Zenkok
regular JCP National Congress or National Convention must ba held
once each year according to Party regulations. Emergency sesaions
called when more than one-third of the members of the Central Committ
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congress so domand The
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCP and 1s empow
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until the next meeting
of the Congress. It also selects members of the Central Committee; the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Committee. The National Con-
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committee
Candidate Pool and the Cortrol Committee together with representatives from
the Frefectual Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na-
tional Convention.
(2) National Conference (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP headquarters has the authority to call a National Conference to dis-
cuss urgent Party policies and issues vhich may arise in between sessions of
the National Cong: ss. A National Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Committees.. The.Na-
tional Conference as the authority to rerove up to one-fifth of the total
membershi of the Central Committee for cause, to elevate members of the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies createa in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable members and then to select addi-
tional members for the Ca:didate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meeting (Sokai): The regulations of the JCF provide
that a General Meeting will be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Committee plus members of the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool. The meetins has the power to select members
for the Political Bureau and for the Secretariat from among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tactics oi the Party.
(4) Central Committee Meeting (Chuo Tinkai): The Central Committee
is required to hold regular meetings at least once a month according to JCP
regulations. At these meetines decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but due to the presence of many influential members on the committee,
policy decisions of great importance may be decided at regular Central Comait-
tee Meeti.gs.
b. Regional Level:
(1) Regional Party Conference (Chiho To Kaigi): The supreme policy-
making body on the regional level is the Regional Farty Conference. This con-
ference is attended by menbers of the Regienal Conmittee, the Regional Coamit-
tee Candidate Pool, reprasentatives of the Prefectural Committees within the
region and represe. tatives of the Central Committee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans based on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Regional Conmittee and the Rugional Committee Candidate
Pool. Held once sach yecr, the Regional Party Co ference ma be called into
emergeney seasion upon directio. of the Regional Com ittee or by request of
more than one-third of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committee General Meeting (Chiho Iin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General Meeting is held at least once very three months and is com-
posed of members of the Regional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. The General Mecting has the authority to fill vacancies in the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committee Candidate Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
SECRET

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
(3) Regional Committee Meeting (Chiho Tinkaty
Committee lieeting refers to the regular monthly meetingo
The group discusses routine Regional Party affairs and h
ters. Specialized departments may also-be established.
c. Prefectural Level:
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The Prefectural
Party Conference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional Party Con
ference and must be convened once a year. Members of the Prefectural Commit
tee, Prefectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordinate
District Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference. This conference
elects members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap
proval and establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set by the
Central and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Party Conference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upon request of more than one-third of the District Committees.
(2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fectural Comnittee General eeting is held at least once every three months
and is composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Committee Candidate Pool. The General Meeting discusses future plans and pro-
gress of its subordinate echelons and selects replacements for vacancies in
the Prefectural Committee.
(3) Prefectural Comrittee Meeting (Ken Iinkai): Held at least once
a month the Prefectural Conmittee meeting is charged with the general supervi-
sion of Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
a standing committee to handle daily affairs of the Party and may also estab-
lish special departments to su ervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
ogy of these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headquarters!
Departments.
d. District Level: The highest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
trict Party Conference (Chiku To Kaixi) which meets twice each year by order
of the District Committee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
rection of the District Committee or by reguest of over one-third of the Party
members under the jurisdiction of the District. In between meetings of the
District Party Conference, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Committee. Meetings of Cell Groups and Cells are held as needed but are
usually convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group Leetiass normally
termed as Gurupu Kaigi are held when their business dictates. A frequent mis-
translation for this torm is Group Council.
7. Importance of a Standard JCF Terminology:
The adoption of a standard organizational tertinology for the Japan Com-
munist Party has many advantages and a definite importance. First, in order
to increase the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
method of reporting Cormunist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
report is rendered less valuable by confusing and erroneous Party terms which
are only understood by the person preparing the report. An added difficulty
is the fact that the Japanese language has produced a wide variation of names
for Communist terms so that there may be several possible translations for one
such tern.
In this report an attempt also has been mace to establish a standard term-
inology which ill conforr as mtch as possible to the conmon international us-
age of Conmunist terms which are employed by Communist Parties in countries
all over the world. The use of this articls as a reference work for official
standard organizational torminology of the JCP should contribute to a greater
clarification and ease of comprehension of all articles and reports pertaining
to the JCP.
SPA - 33

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIAL ARTICLES
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY RGANIZATIONAL TERMINOL
0
1. Introduction
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party
3.
Communist Position Titles
4.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus
5.
Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
6.
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7.
Importance of a Standard JCP Terminology
1. Introduction:
The organizational complexity of the Japan Communist Party (JCP) has
produced a wide variation of terminology peculiar only to the JCP. Added
to this large number of new terms employed by the Communist Party is the
necessity for translating these terms into English, This article is de-
signed to establish a standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ-
ten in Roman letters) translations which will end the present confusion
concerning terms used by the JCF and to standardize their usage.
To facilitate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini-
tions of terms have been placed under major classifications, The standard
Romaji names and translations of the most important Party terms are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (page SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP organizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended.
The most frequently used mis-translations of JCP terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such terms, The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consulted for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy between the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central Comnittee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Central Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Iinkai): A Regional Committee of the JCP
embraces several Prefectural Committees and can be considered to be opera-
tional in scope rather than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially authorized by the Sixth National Congress of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitution provides that the head of a Regional Conmittee will
be elected by the Regional Committee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Committees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Central Committee or of the Central Committee Candidate Pool.
Eaeh Regional Committee has a Standing Committee (Jonin Iinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Committee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most common misnomers for the Regional Committee are: District
Committee, Great District Committee or Large District Committee.
* Note: The basic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terminology," 1l Feb 49, prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
References also have been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
In Hokkaido, the JCP has a Greater Regianal
which corresponds to the standard Regional Committa
Greater Regional Committee are Regiohel Committees
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest of Japan
c. Prefectural Committee (Ken Tinkai): The PrefecturaiC
the JCP are directly under the Regional Committees and are headed oy
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee aret Diatr
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central C
or Prefectural Council. The Chaiiman of a Prefectural Conmittee shoulu no
be referred to as Chief Comrunist or leading Communist.
COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Committee
(Chuo Tinkai)
Regional Committee
(Chiho Iinkai)
Prefectural Committee
(Ken Iinkai)
District Committee
or
(Chiku Tinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun)
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
d. District Committee (Chiku Tinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns.
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chairaan. Frequent
errors used in reporting on this Committee include: Regional Committee,
Branch of a Prefectural Committee or Area Committee.
SPA:- 28
SECRET

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIADARTICLES
e: Cell Group (Saibo Guni): The Cell Grouc or
standard JCP echelon but is often organized whan ther
activities is desirable. A Cell Group is authorized to have
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are often misnamed Joint oolla
Cell Group Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or Squad (Han): The lowest official echelon ot t
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Convention of
the JCp it was decided that the neme Cell would be changed to Squad for th
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the use of the
internationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party has re-
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Celi is
formed with a minimum of three members who are living or working close
enough for mutual communicalion. No maximum size has been established for
Cells and some Cells report as many as 80 members. A common erroneous
designation for Cells is Local Branch.
g. Fraction (Furaku) (Written in Katakana): The most confusing of
Communist terms are the words Fraction and Faction. A Fraction is an im-
portant Party term and means a group of JCP members who may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells ho are placed into or recruited from a target
organization over which the Party wishes to establish control. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Japan, a Fraction
may be either revealed or it may operate under cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of both a concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage-
ment Cell and issues orders and publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual echelon in the Party organization but can be at-
tached to the formal structure at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into
echelons with the various levels of the echelon maintaining liaison and
contact with the corresponding echelon of the Party. The revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) (Written in Katakana) but Fraction still re-
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Communist terminology
and it has the normal meaning of two or more groups with opposing ideas in
the same organization. This term is used in many types of organizations,
both Communist and non-Comaunist. Followers of the several cliques in the
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Faction.
3. Communist Position Titlcs:
a. Secretary General (Shoki Cho): The standard international Commu-
nist term for the executive head of the Party within each country is Secre-
tary General. Chief Clerk or Head Clerk are not correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Committees: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any Communist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regional Committeeman or member of the Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Prefectural Executive or District Director for mem-
bers of committees is erroncous and confusing.
c. Organizers or Org (Orugu) (Written in Katakana): The torm Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Communist Party and certain persons
are designated as Organizers. Although every Party member has tho duty of
recruiting new members and organizing now groups, they are not officially
considered as Organizers and every Conmunist agitator should not bc referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially assigned to echclons
SPA - 29
SECRET

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
as far down as District Committees but are also foundo
level.
4.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headquarters arep
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bureaus in the various Regional,
Prefectural or District headquarters and they are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly usea.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agency for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Central Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. most frequently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agency authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re-
view and approval by the Central Committee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Headguarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Committee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than 10 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Committee Candidate Pool (Chuo Iin Koho): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool ere elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Committee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu)
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8)
Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30
S E C.B.E T.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
(9) General Affairs Department (Somu)
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Akat
(1l). Zenei (Vanguard) Department (Zanei Shukan
(12)
Youth Affairs Department (Seinen Taissk
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chi
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17)
Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18)
Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Senden Bu
5. Publications end Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau and the Control Conmittee occasionally pub-
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
c. Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is published by the Organization and Activities.
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and irs tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Propaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publishes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication and is a registered JCP
document. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUM - 23)
(1) Akahata (Red Flag): The official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consumption.
The term Akahata is generally used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publication
of the Communist Party and is for public consumptio.. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used without the translation.
(3) Other Farty Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also publish a large number
of pamphlets and leaflets vhich are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propaganda and fund raising campaigns. Most of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP but
other Central Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SPA - 31

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
(1) National Congress or National Conrent
regular JCP National Congress or National Convention mus
once each year according to Party regulations. Emerg
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congreso mo. d
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCp and
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until the next
of the Congress. It also selects members of the Central Committee, the C
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Committee. The National Gone
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committee
Candidate Pool and the Control Committee together with representatives from
the Prefectural Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na-
tional Convention.
(2) National Conference (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP headquarters has the authority to call a National Conference to dis-
cuss urgent Party policies and issues which may arise in between sessions of
the National Congress. A National Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Committees, The Na-
tional Conference has the authority to remove up to one-fifth of the total
membership of the Central Committee for cause, to elevate members of the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies created in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable members and then to select addi-
tional members for the Ca:didate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meeting (Sokai): The regulations of the JCP provide
that a General Meeting will be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Committee plus members of the Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool. The meeting has the power to select members
for the Political Bureau and for the Secretariat from among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tactics of the Party.
(4) Central Committee Meeting (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee
is required to hold regular meetings at least once a month according to JCP
regulations. At these meetin s decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but due to the presence of many influential members on the committee,
policy decisions of great importance may be decided at regular Central Commit-
tee Meeti.gs.
b. Regional Level:
(1) Regional Party Conference (Chiho To Kaigi): The supreme policy-
making body on the regional level is the Regional Farty Conference. This con-
ference is attended by members of the Regional Committee, the Regional Commit-
tee Candidate Pool, representatives of the Prefectural Committees within the
region and representatives of the Central Committee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans based on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Regional Conmittee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. Held once each year, the Regional Party Co. ference may be called into
emergency session upon direction of the Regional Conmittee or by request of
more than one-third of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committee General Meeting (Chiho Iin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General Meeting is held at least once every three months and is com-
posed of members of the Regional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. The General Meeting has the authority to fill vacancies in the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committec Candidate Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
S ECRET

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTICLES
(3) Regional Committee Meeting (Chiho
Committee leeting refers to the regular monthly measingo
The group discusses routine Regional Party affaira and
a standing committee to oversee the daily business of the
ters. Specialized departments may also be established.
c. Prefectural Level:
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The Prefentur
Party Conference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional Party cor
ference and must be convened once a year. Members of the Prefectural Commit
tee, Prefectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordinate
District Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference. This conference
elects members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap-
proval and establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set by the
Central and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Party Conference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upon request of more than one-third of the District Committees.
(2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fectural Committee General eeting is held at least once every three months
and is composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Committee Candidate Pool. The General Meeting discusses future plans and pro-
gress of its subordinate echelons and selects replacements for vacancies in
the Prefectural Committee.
(3) Prefectural Com ittee Meeting (Ken Tinkai): Held at least once
a month the Prefectural Committee Meeting is charged with the general supervi-
sion of Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
a standing committee to handle daily affairs of the Party and may also estab-
lish special departments to supervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
ogy of these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headguarters!
Departments.
d. District Level: The highest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
trict Party Conference (Chiku To Kaigi) which mests twice each year by order
of the District Committee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
rection of the District Committee or by request of over one-third of the Party
members under the jurisdiction of the District. In between meetings of the
District Party Confercnce, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Committee. Meetings of Cell Groups and Cells aro held as needed but are
usually convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group Meetinss normally
termed as Gurupu Kaigi are held when their business dictates. A frequent mis-
translation for this torm is Group Council.
7. Importance of a Standard JCF Terminology:
The adoption of a standard organizational terminology for the Japan Com-
munist Party has many advantagcs and a definite importance. First, in order
to increase the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
method of reporting Communist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
report is rendered less valuable by confusing and erroneous Party terms which
are only understood by the persor pr-paring the report. An added difficulty
is the fact that the Japanese language has produccd a wide variation of names
for Communist terms so that there ma be stveral possible translations for one
such tern.
In this report an attempt also has been made to establish a standard term-
inology which ill conform as much as possible to the cotmon iuternational us-
age of Conmunist terms which are employed by Communict Parties in countries
all over the world. The use of this article as a reforence work for official
standard organizational terminology of the JCP should contribute to a reater
clarification and ease of comprehension of all articles and reports pertaining
to the JCP.
SPA - 33
SECRET

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY RGANIZATIONAL TERI
I. Introduction
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party
3.
Communist Position Titles
4.
Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus
5.
Publications and Documents of Japan Communist Party
6.
Congresses, Conferences and Meetings
7. Impcrtance of a Standard JCP Terminology
1.
Introduction:
The crganisational complexity of the Japan Communist Party (JCp) has
produced & w.de variation of terminology peculiar only to the JCP. Added
to this large imber of new terms employed by the Communist Party is the
necessity foi trunslating these terms into English. This article is de
signed to estabiish a standard terminology with the Romaji (Japanese writ-
ten in Roman letters) translations which vill end the present confusion
conceming terns used by the JCF and to standardize their usage.
To facilitate the use of this article as a reference work, the defini-
tions of terms have been placed under major classifications. The standard
Romaji names and translations of the most important Party terms are listed
with brief explanations. A basic chart, "Comnand Echelons of the Japan
Communist Party" is presented (page SPA - ) to serve as an aid in finding
the Romaji and English translations of JCP organizational terminology. The
standard JCP terms in this article may have other good translations but for
the sake of uniformity, these standard terms are recommended,
The most frequently used mis-translations of JCP terms are described
in order to emphasize the undesirability of the use of such terms. The
standard terminology established in an appendix to the CIS Periodical Sum-
mary No. 34, 15 Nov 48, entitled "Alphabetical Index of Leftist Organiza-
tions in Japan" is not repeated in this article and should be consuited for
that phase of Communist activity.
2. Echelons of the Japan Communist Party:
a. Central Committee (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee of the JCP
is the national organ charged with the implementation of policies decided
by the National Congress or National Convention. This committee also formu-
lates and executes all necessary policy between the sessions of the National
Congress. All members of the Central Comaittee are publicly announced and
it is incorrect to refer to all representatives from the JCP Central Head-
quarters as Central Committee members.
b. Regional Committee (Chiho Iinkai): A Re ional Committee of the JCP
embraces several f efectural Committees and can be considered to be opera-
tional in scope ravher than administrative. Regional Committees were first
officially autacrized by the Sixth National Congress of the JCP in Japan.
The Party Constitution provides that the head of a Regional Committee will
be elected by the Regional Committee but at present each of the chiefs of
the Regional Committees is a Central Committee Organizer who is a member of
either the Central Committee or of the Central Conunittee Candidate Pool.
Each Regional Committee has a Standing Committee (Jonin Iinkai) which exer-
cises the power of the Regional Comnittee when this committee is not meeting.
Some of the most comnon misnomers for the Regional Committee are: District
Committee, Great District Conunittee or Large District Committee.
Note:
The basic reference for this article is "Guide to Communist
Terminclogy," 11 Feb 49, prepared by the Fourth CIC District.
Refererces also have been made to CIS files for the purpose
of checking and making amplifications.
SPA - 27
SECRET

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
In Hokkaido, the JCp has a Greater Regidnal Co
which corresponds to the standard Regional Committes
Greater Regional Committee are Regional Committees whioh
standard Prefectural Committees in the rest of Japan.
c. Prefectural Committee (Ken Iinkai): The Prefectural Committ
the JCP are directly under the Regional Committees and are headed by a Oha
man. Erroneous designations of the Prefectural Committee ares..Distriot
mittee, Regional Committee, Branch of the JCP, Prefectural Central Commitbee
or Prefectural Council. The Chairman of a Prefectural Committee shouldinot
be referred to as Chief Comnunist or leading Communist.
COMMAND ECHELONS OF THE JAPAN COMMUNIST PARTY
National Congress
(Zenkoku Taikai)
Central Committee
(Chuo Tinkai)
Regional Committee
(Chiho Iinkai)
Prefectural Committee
(Ken. Iinkai)
or
District Committee
(Chiku Iinkai)
Cell Group
(Saibo Gun)
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
Cell
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
(Saibo)
d. District Committee (Chiku Tinkai): The immediate supervisory organ
over Cells or Squads is known as the District Committee. This Committee is
responsible for the direction of local propaganda activities and for insur-
ing the participation of all subordinate organs in the various Party campaigns:
The person in charge of the District Committee is called a Chair an. Frequent
errors used in reporting on this Committee include: Regional Committee,
Branch of a Prefectural Committee or Area Committee.
SPA - 28
SECRET

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
Cell Group (Saibo Gun): The Cell Group or Squad Gra
standard JCp schelon but is often organized when there are thre
Cells or Squads closely together and joint control of the indiv
activities is desirable. A Cell Group is authorised to have a Cal
or Squad Group Committee. Cell Groups are often misnamed Joint Calls or
Cell Group Squads.
f. Cell (Saibo) or Squad (Han): The lowest official echelon of the
Communist Party is the Cell or Squad. At the Sixth National Convention of
the JCP it was decided that the name Cell would be changed to Squad for the
purpose of creating a better public impression by avoiding the use of the
intermationally used communistic term of Cell. Recently, the Party has re-
verted to the use of Cell and both terms are in common usage. A Cell is
formed with a minimun of three members who are living or working close
enough for mutuel. ccmmunicacion. No maximum size has been esteblished for
Cells and some Colis report as many as 80 members. A coanon crroneous
design. tion for Ce!ls is Local Franch.
g Fraction (Furaku) (Written in Katakana): The mos confusing of
Communist terms ar the words Fiaction and Faction. A Fraction is an. im-
portant Party tern enc means a group of JCP members vho may also be organ-
ized into one or more cells ho are placed into or recruited. from a target
organization over which the Party wishes to establish control. Thus, a
Fraction is the unit of infiltration of the Party. In Japan, a Fraction
may be either revealed or it may cperate uncer cover. In Japanese labor
unions, there are instances of both a concealed and open Fraction in the
same union. An open Fraction generally operates under the name of Manage-
ment Cell and issues orders and publications in the name of the Cell. A
Fraction is not an actual echelon in the Party organization but can be at-
tached to the formal structure at any level. In certain large target
groups such as the Japan Farmers Union, the Fractions are pyramided into.
echelons with the various levels of the echelon maintaining liaison and
contact with the corresponding echelon of the Party. The-revised term for
Fraction is Group (Gurupu) (Written in Katakana) but Fraction still re-
mains in general use.
The word Faction has no particular meaning in Communist terminology
and it has the normal meaning of two or more groups with opposing ideas in'"
the same organization. This term is used in many types of organizations,
both Communist and non-Communist. Followers of the several cliques in the.
JCP or partisans of certain leaders are properly known as Factions, such
as the Yenan Faction, the Nosaka Faction or the Prison Faction.
3. Communist Position Titlcs:
a. Secretary General (Shoki Cho): The standard international Commu-
nist term for the executive head of the Party within each country is Secre-
tary General. Chicf Clerk or Head Clerk are hot correct interpretations of
this position title.
b. Members of Committees: The best usage in referring to the posi-
tions of members of any Conmunist Committee is to say member of the Central
Committee, Kanto Regiona.. Jonnitteeman or member of the Control Committee.
The use of such terms as Prefectural Executive or Distict Director for mem-
bers of committees is erroncous and confusing.
c. Organizers or Ors (Orugu) (Written in Katakana): The term Organi-
zer refers to a specific position in the Communist Party and certain persons
are designated as Organizers. Although every Party member has thc duty of
recruiting new members and organizing new groups, they are not officially
considered as Organizers and every Communist agitator should not be referred
to as an Organizer. Organizers are normally officially assigned to echelons
SPA - 29

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
as far down as District Committees but are also
level.
4. Central Headquarters Departments and Bureaus:
The Departments and Bureaus of the JCP Central Headqua
duplicated in the lower echelon headquarters of the. Party. There is no
fixed organization of these Departments and Bareaus in the Varibus Reglonal
Prefectural or District headquarters and they"are established when the local
situation makes them necessary. The same names and translations are general-
ly usea.
a. Secretariat (Shoki Kyoku): The central administrative agenoy for
the JCP is the Secretariat. The main duties of the Secretariat are to issue
official Directives and Notifications in the name of the Certral Committee;
to keep official statistics on the internal affairs of the Party; and to pro-
vide an accounting of finances on a national basis. most frequently the
Secretariat is misnamed the Clerk Bureau, Clerical Bureau, Clerk Section,
Secretary Department of Secretary's Pool.
b. Political Bureau or Politburo (Seiji Kyoku): The Political Bureau
is the Party agency authorized to decide general and political policies for
the Party's activities. These decisions are subject to a theoretical re
view and approval by the Centrel Committee when in session. The Political
Bureau has been misnamed the Political Board, the Political Affairs. Section
and the Political Department.
c. Organization and Activities Bureau (Soshiki Katsudo Shido Bu): The
Organization and Activities Bureau of Central Headguarters makes general
daily decisions on tactical measures and also aids in the formulation of
propa anda keynotes and tactical guides. Although other translations of
this term may be correct, the title of Organization and Activities Bureau
best describes this agency. Incorrect translations are Organization Action
and Leadership Department and the Formation and Activity Guidance Section.
d. Control Committee (Tosei Iinkai): The Control Commi tee of the JCP
Central Headquarters is the watchdog of the headquarters. Tts duties in-
clude inspection and supervision of the implementation of decisions of-the
National Congress and the Central Committee, enforcement of Party regula-
tions and defense against anti-Communist elements who seek to destroy the
Party. The Committee holds regular general meetings at least once a month
and conducts joint meetings with the Political Bureau when important urgent
matters arise. It is composed of not more than 10 members who are elected
by the National Congress.
e. Central Committee Candidate Pool (Chuo Iin Koho): Members of the
Central Committee Candidate Pool are elected by the JCP National Congress.
Provisions are made for a total of 25 persons to be held in this pool and
whenever a vacancy occurs in the Central Committee, a Central Committee
Candidate is selected for that position.
f.
Administrative and Specialized Departments:
(1)
Propaganda and Education Department (Senden Kyoiku Bu)
(2)
Publications Department (Shuppan Bu)
(3)
Cultural Affairs Department (Bunka Bu)
(4)
Investigation Department (Chosa Bu)
(5)
Financial Affairs Department (Zaisei Bu).
(6)
Regional Affairs Department (Chiho Bu)
(7)
Science and Technology Department (Kagaku Gijutsu Bu)
(8). Personnel Affairs Department (Jinji Bu)
SPA - 30

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
(9) General Affairs Department (S
(10) Akahata (Red Flag) Department (Al
(1l) Zenei (Vanguard) Department. (zenei)
(12) Youth Affairs Department (Smine
(13)
Regional Administration Affairs Department (Chi
Taisaku Bu)
(14)
Urban Peoples Department (Shimin Taisaku Bu)
(15)
Agrarian Peoples Department (Nomin Bu)
(16)
Women's Department (Fujin Bu)
(17) Election Affairs Department (Senkyo Taisaku Bu)
(18) Soviet Culture Propaganda Department (Sovieto Bunka Sendan
5.. Publications and Documents of the JCP:
a. Directives (Shirei) and Notifications (Tsutatsu): The Secretariat
normally issues all Party orders in the form of Directives or Notifications
although the Political Bureau and the Control Committee occasionally pub
lish Directives and Notifications. The majority of these orders are num-
bered serially to facilitate filing but at times are published without num-
bers. These terms of Directives and Notifications are to be used instead
of Instruction or Notice.
b. Organization and Propaganda Guide (Soshiki Senden Shishin): The
Organization and Propaganda Guide is a joint publication of the Organization
and Activities Bureau and the Propaganda and Education Departments. It ap-
pears irregularly every 10 or 15 days and is considered to be a registered
and classified document by the JCF.
Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin (Soshiki Katsudo
Sokuho): This bulletin is published by the Organization and Activities
Bureau at weekly intervals at present. It is a relatively new publication
which contains news and is tructions concerning the pending Communist
"struggles." The Organization and Activity Emergency Bulletin is reported-
ly another JCP registered document.
d. Guide to Party Activity (To Katsudo Shishin): The Propaganda and
Education Department of the JCP headquarters publishes the Guide to Party
Activity. This guide is a new Party publication and is a registered JCP
ocument. It is reportedly published to supplement the Organization and
Propaganda Guide.
e. Official Party Publications: (For detailed information on JCP
publications see CIS Periodical Summary No. 31, 15 Aug 48, Page SUM - 23)
(1) Akahata (Red Flag): The.official daily newspaper organ of
the JCP is Akahata.
This newspaper is published for both public and Party
member consumption.
The term Akahata is generally used without the trans-
lation.
(2) Zenei (Vanguard): Zenei is the official monthly publicetion
of the Communist Party and is for public consumption. Similarly to Akahata,
the term Zenei is usually used witho t the translation.
(3) Other Party Organs and Publications: All echelons of the JCP
publish organ papers for education of members and public propaganda. Trans-
lation of these titles will normally produce standard and easily understood
names.
Central Headquarters Departments of the JCP also publish a large number
of pamphlets and leaflets which are prepared for public newsstand distribu-
tion for the purpose of propagande and fund raising campaigns. Most of
these publications are issued by the Publications Department of the JCP but
other Central Headquarters Departments also issue such publications.
SPA - 31
SECRET

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
National Level:
(1) National Congress or National Con
called when more than one-third of the members of the Central Co
one-half of the delegates to the previous National Congress so
National Congress is the highest policy-making body of the JCP and
ered to decide basic policies which continue in effect until thenext
of the Congress. It also selects members of the Central Committee the
tral Committee Candidate Pool and the Control Committee. The National.Con-
gress is attended by members of the Central Committee, the Central Committe
Candidate Pool and the Cortrol Committee together with representatives from
the Frefectural Committees. National Congress is preferred, rather than Na
tional Convention.
(2) Kati nal Conference (Zenkoku Kaigi): The Central Committee of
the JCP headguarters has the authority to call a National Conference to dis-
ouss urgent Party policies and issues which may arise in between sessions of
the National Congress. A National Conference is composed of the Central Com-
mittee plus representatives selected by the Prefectural Conmittees. The Na-
tional Conference  as the authority to remove up to one-fifth of the total
membershi of the Central Committee for cause, to elevate members of the. Cen-
tral Committee Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies created in the Central
Committee created by expulsion of undesirable members anc then to select addi-
tional members for the Candidate Pool to fill the vacancies in that group.
(3) General Meeting (Sokai): The regulations of the JCP provide
that a General Meeting will be held at least once every four months. This
General Meeting is composed of the Central Committee plus members of the Cen-
tral Conmittee Candidate Pool. The meeting has the power to select members
for the Political Bureau anc for the Secretariat from among the Central Com-
mittee membership and also conducts discussions on national strategy and
tacties of the Party.
(4) Central Committee Meeting (Chuo Iinkai): The Central Committee
is required to hold regliar meetings at least once a month according to JCP
regulations. At these meetin s decisions are made relative to routine Party
affairs but due to the presence of many influential members on the committee,
policy decisions of great importance may be decided at regular Central Commit-
tee Meeti. gs.
b. Regional Level:
(1) Resi nal Party Conference (Chiho To Kaigi): The suprome policy-
making body on the regional level is the Regional Party Conference. This con-
ference is rattendo by members of the Regienal Committee, the Regional Commit-
tee Candidate Pool, representatives of the Prefectural Committees within the
region and representatives of the Central Committee. The Regional Party Con-
ference establishes plans based on the policies of the Central Committee and
selects members of the Regional Conmittee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. Held once each ecr, the Regional Party Co ference me; be called into
emergency se sion upon direction of the Regional Co ittee or by request of
more than one-third of the Prefectural Committees.
(2) Regional Committee General Meeting (Chiho Iin Sokai): A Regional
Committee General Meeting is held at least once everg three months and is com-
posed of members of the Re ional Committee and the Regional Committee Candidate
Pool. The General Mecting has the authority to fill vacancies in the Regional
Committee by selecting replacements from the Regional Committee Candidat Pool.
All such selections are subject to approval by the Central Committee.
SPA - 32
SE C RET

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
SPECIALARTICLES
(3) Regional Committee Meeting (Chihe
Committee leeting refers to the regular monthly meeting
The group discusses routine Regional Party affairs and ha
a standing committee to oversee the daily business of the regl
ters. Specialized departments may also be established,
c. Prefectural Level:
(1) Prefectural Party Conference (Ken To Kaigi): The Prefectural
Party Conference corresponds to the National Congress or Regional Party Con
ference and must be convened once a year. Members of the Prefectural Commit
tee, Prefectural Committee Candidate Pool and representatives of subordinate
District Committees make up the Prefectural Party Conference, This conference
elects members of the Prefectural Committee subject to Central Committee ap
proval and establishes plans for the prefecture following policies set by the
Central and Regional Committees. An emergency session of the Prefectural
Party Conference may be called upon decision of the Prefectural Committee or
upon request of more than one-third of the District Committees.
(2) Prefectural Committee General Meeting (Ken Iin Sokai): The Pre-
fectural Committee General eeting is held at least once every three months
and is composed of members of the Prefectural Committee and the Prefectural
Committee Candidate Pool. The General Meeting discusses future plans and pro-
gress of its subordinate echelons and selects replacements for vacancies in
the Prefectural Committee.
(3) Prefectural Comrittee Meeting (Ken Tinkai): Held at least once
a month the Prefectural Conmittee Meeting is charged with the general supervi-
sion of Party activities in the prefecture. The Prefectural Committee selects
a standing committee to handle daiiy affairs of the Party and may also estab-
lish special departments to supervise specific Party functions. The terminol-
ogy of these departments usually is the same as for the Central Headguarters'
Departments.
d. District Level: The highest body of the JCP Districts is the Dis-
trict Party Conference (Chiku To Kaigi) which mests twice each year by order
of the District Committee. Special sessions may be called by either the di-
rection of the District Comnittee or by request of over onc-third of the Party
members under the jurisdiction of the District. In between meetings of the
District Party Conferencc, business is carried on by meetings of the District
Comnittee. Meetings of Cell Groups and Cells are held as needed but are
usually convened at re ular intervals. Fractions or Group Heetinss normally
termed as Gurupu Kaigi are held when their businoss dictates. A frequent mis-
translation for this torm is Group Council.
7. Importance of a Stan dard JCF Terminology:
The adoption of a standard organizational terminology for the Japan Com-
munist Party has many advantages and a definite importance. First, in order
to increase the comprehensibility of intelligence reports, a fixed and uniform
method of reporting Communist terms becomes necessary. At times a well prepared
report is rendered less valuable by confusing and erroneous Party terms which
are only understood by the person preparing the report. An added difficulty
is the fact that the Japanese language has produced a wide variation of names
for Communist terms so that there ma, be several possible translations for one
such tern.
In this report an attempt also has been made to establish a standard term-
inology which ill conforr as uch as possible to the conmon international us-
age of Conmunist terms which are employed by Communist Parties in countries
all over the world. The use of this article as a reference work for official
standard organizational terminology of the JCP should contribute to a greater
clarification and ease of comprehension of all articles and reports pertainin
to the JCP.
SPA - 33

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
NORTHEASTTASIAN AFFAIRS
REC'D
JUN10 1949ted States Political Advis
JUNE 6
for Japan
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION
No.. 332
Tokyo, Lay 23, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
Inró
(For Department Use Only)
kction Assigned to NA
DCR
OLI
Action Takon Us asdsa
EURX
Subject: Future of the Social Democratic Party.
Date of Action
Action Office SmbelAA
The Honorable
Name of officer s f
The Secretary of Stete.
①
Washington.
Direction to DC/R
Sir:
894.00/3241
 00.214
With reference to this Mission"s despatches
nos. 146 and 242 of Larch 12 and April 21, 1949, I
have the honor to transmit a memorandum of a conversa-
tion whieh took plase on May 10. 1949 between Mrs. Jane M.
ALDN (presently escigue to this Mission by the Depart-
ment) and Lr YtnluBo itsusuke prominent Social Demo-
cratic Party member of the House of Representatives
and formerly Minister ef Labor in the T  a Cabinet.
With thirty years experience in the labor movement
and socislist political activity, Mr ronekubo is now
affilieted with the enter fection of the Social Democratic
Party. Altheugh the part, has been torn by internal
dissension si nce tne Seneral election of January 23,
Ir Yonekubo belleves that for the present the left wing
and its labor supporters will prefer to continue working
within
Eventually: however, he is convinced
that the parvy will split into two groups
If and when
the split comes L'r Yonekubo says that he will go with
the left wing
He is convineed that the left wing is
firmly anti-communist and is increasing its strength,
especially as a result of the entry into the party of
leaders of the Derocratization League In the event of
a split. Mr. Yonekubo dees not believe that the socialist
right wing will merge with any of the conservative parties
but will attempt to funetion as a small independent group
with whatever strength it sun muster.
Ii Yonekubo in discussing younger party members
as potential leaders particularly mentioned Lessrs. KATSUMATA
Seiichi and INAliURa Junzo of the left wing faction and
Mr. MIYAlts Shoichi of the right wing. In Mr. Yonekubo's
opinion, Iir. Katsumata is the most promising leader. It
may
CONFIDENTIAL
2
ACTION COPY
161
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTIE TAKEN.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's.Despatoh No.
May-23,1949
CONFIDENTIAL
may be noted that Mr Katsumata was involved in the
famous Cabinet Planning Board Incident just before the
outbreak of the Pacific War, when police investigations
indicated that he was a member of the then underground
Communist Party. It is believed that his rise to leader-
ship in a left-wing dominated socialist party would:very
likely facilitate some form of socialist-communist coopera
tion under a popular front. Lir. Tonekubo's enthusiasm.
for Mr. Katsunata's ability as a potential leader also
overlooks other important considerations. While Mr. Katsumata
is unguestionably a man of exceptional intelligence and
ability, his career has been confined primarily to the
left-wing intelligentsia and government service. He lacks
firm connections with the labor movement. The recent gain
in strength of the left wing in the Social Democratic Party
has been made possible largely by the increased influence
of the labor unicus xnd especially the followers of the
Democratization League. If this trend continues, the
Social Democratic Party, end particularly its left wing,
will become more and more dominated by labor. That the
labor union element will follow a man without a real
labor background is doubtful
Kr Yonekubo commented at some length on the Social
Democratic Party's loss of such old-line leaders as
KONO Mitsu. NISHIC Suehiro, and MATSULOTO Jiichiro. These
losses of experienced leadership end the serious reverses
in the January 23 eleoticn have brought the Social Demo-
cratic Party to the nadir of its postwar career. There
are now beginning to tale place, therefore, verious re-
groupings and re-align ients out of which he believes that
a new leadership wilj unquestionably emerge. Mr. Yonekubo
feels that the party will regain considerelle strength
by this process He does not arpear to be too sure, however,
as to how this process of revival will be accomplished
without a definitive left-right split.
Unless factional dirferences and personal rivalries
completely disrupt the party, it appears that the most
promising source of strength today is the growing influence
of the labor union element and the apparent intention
of the Democratization League to take over the party and
revitalize it as a real labor party. This effort will
unyuestionably neet with serious opposition from what
might be called the professional socialists in the party,
the old-line leaders. among whom Mr Yonekubo should be
included, who have heretofore been primarily concerned
with efforts to build the Social Democratic Party along
traditional political party lines. Their efforts have
only to a small degree looked toward a labor party
in the sense of a party solidly supported if hot controlled
by organized labor The leaders of the Democratization
League unquestionably hope to convert the Social Democratic
Party into such an organization. If they are successful,
the
CONTIDENTIAL

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
the party will not only gain measurably in str
will acquire a dependable following in the labo
Solid labor union support alone may not be surricl
bring the party again into power, but it would
socialists a much more powerful and effective oppooiti
Respectfully yours,
reMtulin
Cloyce K. Huston
Charge d Affaires ad interim
at
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation of
Lay 10, 1949, Yonekubo Mitsusuke
and J. M. Alden.
gum
Parchment Mat to Department
350.1
oNspicks mhp
CONFIDL.TIAL

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.98)
Party"
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEMORANDUL OF CONVERSATION
May 10, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: Future of the Social Democratic Party.
PARTICIPANIS: YOHEKUBO Mitsusuke
Mrs. Jane M ALDEN
YOMELUBO Mitsusuke, Socialist Party member of the
House of Representatives is associated with the center
faction of the Party. He was formerly Minister of Labor
in the Katayama Cabinet, and for thirty years has been
associated with the Sea en's Union.. In the prewar
period he was a member of the Shakai Taishuto (Social
Mass Party) predecessor of the present Socislist Party.
Mr Yonekubo expressed his views on conditions within
the Socialist Party its relations with labor and farmer
groups, and the party's prospects for the future.
In Mir Yonekubo's cpinion, the Socialist Party will
probably split into two roups within the next year or
two. He did not think that the split would come earlier
than this because the left wing and its lebor support
would attempt to work from within t. e party for the time
being He personally would sontinue to work to avoid
but he was not hopeful that party
a split in
unity could be mainteined. He himself would go with the
left wing of the party in the event the party split into
two groups
He has refrained to date from associating
himself with the left wing because of his desire to
conciliate the differences between the right and left
within the party. lthough Mr. Yonekubo did not say so,
he implied that his decision to throw in his lot with
the left wing in the event of a split was a recent
decision, and that for a long time he had remained
undecided on a course of action He believes that the
left wing is firmly anti-cormunist, and that is is
increasing
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
Holosure toTokyot
Despatoh No. 332,
May 23, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
increasing its strength within the party, espebialiy with
entrance into the party of the leaders of the Damooratiza
tion League and the increasing strength or the lert wing
of the Japan Federation of Labor (Sodomel) under Sepretary-
General Takano. On the other hand, in the event of a
division of the party into two separate groups, Mr. Yonokubo
does not think that the right wing will join with the
conservative parties but that it will remain as a small
independent political group.
In the recent Socialist Party convention Mr. Yonekubo
supported SUzUkI Mcsaburo the left-wing candidate for
Se.  tery-General of the party against ASANUfA Inajiro,
the right wing candidate Yonekubo thinks that Suzuki
will make a cood Secretsry-General, that he is fer more
capable than Asanuna whom Mr. Yonekubo considers not very
intelligent
Mr Yonekubo was asked to corment on the younger
party members end the ones he considered the best
potential leaders. He considers KATsUMaTA Seiichi,
socialist member from Shizuoka, as the outstanding
younger party leader und the one who will probably rise
to Ition of top leadership in the party In addition
to Katsumata he selected INAmURA Junzo, Socialist from
Niigata, and ITYAkl Shoichi slso of Niigata, as promising
future leaders. Both Inamura and Miyake he considered
especially well versed in farm problems. Katsumata and
Inamura are members of the left wing faction in the party,
while Miyake is associated with the right wing faction.
The singling out by Yonekubo of Katsumata as the
strongest candidate for e position of leadership in the
party in the future is interesting in view of Katsumata's
background Ketsumate was a member of the group surround-
ing MADA Hiroo in the Cabinet Investigation Bureau and
its successor the Cabinet Planning Board in the period
1935-40 The Wada Taction was the chief exponent within
both orgenizations of internal economic reforms and the
establishment of planned economy. At the time of the.
Cabinet Plenning Board Incident in 1958 and in subsequent
Japanese police investigations it was established that
there were close connections between members of the Wada
faction and the Showa Kenkyukai. a research group, under
the influence of I Hozumi of the now famous Sorge case.
While members of the Jada faction, among them Katsumata
were unquestionably unavare of Czilki's. espionage activities
they were also obviously influenced by Soviet economic
planning and concepts.. Japanese police investigations in
later years concluded that Katsumata was at this time a
member of the underground Communist Party. In the postwar
period Katsumata has continued to be closely associated
with
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatoh No. 332
May 23, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
with Wada in the postwar counterpart to the Cabinet
Planning Board., the Economic Stabilization Board. He
left this organization to run for the House of Representa-
tives in 1947 and was elected then and again in 1949.
Mr. Yonekubo commented on the leadership of the.
Democratization League (Mindo) and the Sodomei: He. spoke
very highly of 
leader of the Democratization
League. who was prior to the war a member of the Seamen's
Union, of which Mr. Yonekubo was a leader. Although
Hosoya has risen tc & position of responsibility in the
labor union movement only since the close of the war,
Kr. Yonekubo thought he was well versed in trade union
problems. Hosoye was until the spring of 1947 a member
of the Comaunist Party, and a member of the Central
Executive Committee of the Communist-dominated National
Congress of Industrial Unions (Sanbetsu). Another labor
leader that drew the praise of Mr. Yonekubo was Takano,
present Secretary General of Sodomei and leader of its
left-wins group. Takano had lons prewar experience in
the textile unions. Takano?s influence in the Sodomei
and that of the left wing of the Sodomei under his leader-
ship is becoming stronger Takano and Hosova are cooper-
ating closely in the development of a stro  non-gommunist
labor union movement
The situation in the farmers' unions will improve
in so far as the Socialist Party is concerned, according
to Mr. Yonekubo He believes that SATAkE Shinichi,
leader of the Socialist faction of the Japan Farmers
Union, is i reasing his influence among the farmers in
general, while that of EIRiNo Rikizo and his National
Farmers Union is on the decline The leadership of both
factions of the Japan Farmers Union, on a national and
local level is professional and has no real connection
with or real knowledge of farmer's problems, and therefore
has failed to gain the confidence of the farmers. The
Socialist Party, is therefore planning to develop local
farmer leadership thet will take an interest in farm
problems. especially the tax issue He considers that
both Miyake and Inamura. as well as Satake, are well
versed in farm problems and capable of directing Socialist
Party policies in regerd to farm matters.
Mr. Yonekubo was asked to comment on the effect in
terms of the Socialist Party organizaticn of the loss
to the party, for various reasons, of such former leaders
as KONO Mitsu, NISHIO Suehiro. and RATSUMOTO Jiichiro.
Mr.. Yonekubo was of the opinion that of these men the
loss of Kono was the most serious to the party because
of Ko mo's organizetional ability. He implied that the loss
of Nishio was of some possible advantage to the party,
since the presence of Nishio made it more difficult to
reconcile the right and left wings of the party. The loss
of Matsumoto, while a blow to the party's prestige, was not
a serious loss to its leadership group since Matsunoto had
always
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
bosuretoTokyo
Deanatch No. G52
May 23; 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL
always pursued an independent line.Mr Yoneku
is a close friend of Matsumoto's, felt it necemeary
to point out that Matsumoto was not a communist, and
only on the question of the elimination of the emperor
system did Matsumoto and the communists agree. Tonekubo
considered the purge of Matsumoto as an example of the
underhandedness of the Yoshida Cabinet.
As to the Socialist Party's prospeots for the future,
Mr. Yonekubo considered that the party was now reduoed
to its lowest possible point. that the forty-eight House
of Representatives seats it now holds represent the solid
strength of the party. In the next election he thinks
that the party will double its lower house seats.
Meanwhile he thinks that there is some possibility that
various former Socialist party members may return to the.
party. For example he thought that KURODA Hisao, now
in the Labor Farmer Party, would return with some of his
associates to the Socialist Party. On the other hand,
some of the Labor Farmer Party members, such as OKADA
Haruo, would not return to the Socialists, but would
probably go over to the Communist Party. In the recent
election Mr. Yonekubo is of the opinion that only the
intelligentsia supported the Socialists to the same
extent as they had in 1947; labor, farmers, and smali
businessmen deserted the party in great numbers in
1949.Th
of the Socialist Party as adopted at
the recent convention emphasizes the need to develop
working level relationships between the party on the one
hand and the farmers and laborers on the other. In the
future the party will emphasize local organization and
programs that will appeal to these groups
eme m. ulden
Jane M. Alden

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION OF
Officeo
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
JUN 151949
Action Taken
JUN 1|51949
DIRECTOR
Na Aolia
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE USTO. LD, TORY
Date of Action
Date of
te lline:
1949.
lib
tee:
Direotion to DC/R
June 14, 1949 3:23p.m
  .
ACTION FE
oto
ONFO
OO/R
-100 1000 4, 1049.
SA/M
894.00
EUR/X
uicipal adinistr tions buceu an
E
hove pee p umrertakeu to revise cerulc
DC/L
paredes
emabratione, and meetin s.
 for
IOP
such acltan ts vie inereasing tendeney
OPT
sort tionso become disorderly.
OLI
JHA
un
 o the Ponyo betro olit  wese
ion
96
AAN
of propeem pow rogulot lons whteh would pee
1
re bher t a s -hour cdvenee bebiee berore
4
POS
for labes rpottleel rerodes c cest s.
49
known ornt to storwed the setropoliten 
effort t Lu Riseuecion. loe roso co
CP
csrllel on  e police to clear t o talt or u
seudous  ve folleved huring whieb ore tton
(rline rom a vindou to the  ov ont) and a
The rolloda  over soco unlon members vio
dothnstrstd  the Tokyo Letropolstan assenb
doudnstratooe t tled to disperee at tre time
DEPARME
eside, viu.  ooo extre polies in pesorve, pl
9
anr crew une ereested ce e strators
nstre  ro m 67 poliee wee togureo
what b Pokyo vlots of ey to-
orbfens. otner aiererl
JUN
evicion
il u
EILED
1:VE
2
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.68)
Toys 
Jura 4, 194
r ve een lson for te lssolution of
trope
s s teo  of the chief  the
si too. to  tsp  bes tbopced to talee the
sut in her cro
bee ed
s to s he
 sPesmin
t eh
eor
r
f
rt
1..1
theb
1

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISN OF
united States Political
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
for Japan
JUN 2 0 1949
Tokyo, June 6, 1949.
No. 360
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RESTRICTED
MO'D
Action Assignedt
J0N 17
Action Taken M ah
AOTION
Subjeot: Local Political Party Organization----
Date of Action
DOR
Action Orrice Syabol N
OLI
Naze of ofr1eer U fhee
sun/x
The Honorable
The Secretary of State.
Washington.
4.
Sir:
00/6-649
I have the honor to ransmit a memorandum dated
May 31, 1949, on locel cr animation and activities of
the major Japanese politicsl parties prepared by
Mrs. Jane M ALDE: who is temporarily assigned to this
Mission from the Depertment The memorandut is the
result of interviews and cbserv tions made during an
extensive field rip.
Heretofore only the Tapanese Communists have
successfully concentr ted efforts on building up local
party organization thro sh which it has been possible to
appeal directly to the lectorate on such issues of
immediate concern to voters es food, clothing, houses,
and taxes. The comserv tive parties. on the other hand,
have neglected their lueal crganizations which have been
characterized by sexicus structural deficiencies, the
absence of initintive on party of the local leadership.
and en elmost complete dependeuce upon and orientation
toward national party heudquarters. Their membership is
exceedingly smali in comperison with the voting and
parliamentary strength of the major parties. What member-
ship actually exists is mlso of loose character with full-
time or enthusiastic party workers the exception rather
than the rule. Combihed with the ebsence of any broad
basis for support in the local field, local party organiza-
tion is also handicapped by insufficient funds and the
marked tendenoy of the national headguarters to ignore the
local organ ization's finsncial and other problems. Investi-
gation has shown that the primary connection between the
local and national levels is the party's representatives
in the Diet. This connection is for the most part tenuous,
sinoe Diet members spend most of their time between
elections
FILED
2
21949
RESTRIOTED
口
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAREN
M

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRIOTED
eleotions in Tokyo. In cases whereya party h
tion from a prefecture, party organizat
generally lacks effective contect with hational hi
Another significant deficiency found in Hoeal perty
organization is the general unwillingness of leadors to
identify the party with lccal colitios and politioal issuoe
With the exception of prefectural politics, party orgahiza-
tion serves primarily the purpose of electing candiaatea
to the National Diet unicipal, town, and village polities
function within cn almost totelly s mor be sphere. This
situation has retarued  e growth of local party organizatión
for there is little imeetive for voters to become 'regular
party members wher e jor resies are only remotely if
at all concerned  itr luc l relitical problems Some party
leaders are sttemr vie to svelop more interest in local
affairs, but thus f cnly the loeal organization of the
Japan Comuunist Peruy Les suececsfully identified the party's
national program with iccel politics.
In many areas e looul  misations of the major
parties have little   racl prty character. Instead,
they are the pereersl coll mmines cf political figures,
usually representevives is the Dist
A personal following
of this kind is comeer a primrily with keeping its leader
in office. Tt s 
 par its own non-party agencies
and channels for 
n which are in turn based
primarily upon pern
hhn political associations
In some cases th
soni structure may reach
into local polist
r the aegis of a political
party. and while 
prrvie  strong basis for political
support it is esse
erse1 machine serving a
particular leader
in jeutally be a member of a
political paroy
therefore, that any develop-
ment of locel
ust compete with highly
personalized.n
cna and relationships The
more impersonal
roliticel perty organization
is still ayparan
lie nd without appeal to the
Japanese miud
As the emeles
mlcialy indicates, only the
Japanese Coununists
ly overeome the traditionel
system of personal pel sienehirs in building their local
party organization The  dvarue the Communists have made
has begun to alar t loc I lesders of other parties. Thus
2
far, however onl. e soeislistes have given evidence of
surficient abllity s rabuila looal party crganization in
a manner which wiil ohme it to compete with the traditional
system of personal lerelvies.
Respeetfully yours,
Cloyce K. Huston
Charge d'affaires ad interim

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure:
Local Organization and Activities
of the Democratic Liber, Democratic,
and Socialist Perties, May 31, 1949,
Jane M. Alden.
Parchment Mat to Department
350.2
CNSpinks:mhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
States Po
Tokyo,on
RESTRICTED
Party Organi
MEMORANDUM
May 31, 1949。
Subject: Local Crganization and Activities of the
Democratic Liberal, Democratic, and Socialist
Parties.
The Democrotic Liberal and Demooratic Parties on a
local level are pharacterized by a lack of struotural
organization, the absence of initiative on the part of
the local leadershir and an almost complete dependence
on and orientution toward national party headquarters.
At the same time there is very little interest in looal
problems or local political activity. The strength of
the party is measured in terms of the number of repre-
sentatives in the Diet, not in terms of the lodal
political situation sic the local leadership has no
conception that the party as a whole might be in need
of or could utilize è strong local base. To a limited
extent the recent Comunist suecesses in both the
House of Represeatatives and local by-eleetions. have
stimuleted local perty leaders to think in terms of
altering their trud' pional concep of local party
organization and assiviuy but thr are not taking the
initiative and are wai sing instead direction from
national perty readpeerters.
The losal rgunization of the conservative parties
exists primarily en poper. As a general rule the member-
ship is small, ie vding individuals who register their
membership with the party and a few party leaders. There
are no mebership es. no party newspapers, newssheets
or the like, and no party meetings open to the general
membership. In s ort an crdinary citizen who is
interested in participating in political activity or in
commw ffairs would not find any inoentive to join
either of the cons ervative parties. The strength of the
conservative parties lies in a personal type of party
organization whiien depends on the influence and position
of an individual leader in the commit   ho has a
personal following. This individual leader may in turn
belong to one of the parties, but his followers belong
to him rather than to the party
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
The looal branches of the honservat
look to the party headquarters for dir
of both party policies and party organization
suggestion that the local chapters might benetit
more independenoe in dealing with local problema
countered by one party leader with the statement that
since the political and sconomic life of the country wa
centralized in Tokyo it would be of no advantage to
decentralize party organization. The local chapters
Beek approval from Tokyo for the organization of their.
local branch, and any changes in the paper organization
are first approved by the national headquarters.  Candidates
for the Diet are recommended by the local chapter and
approved by the headquarters. Even candidates for
important prefectural offices, such as governors, mayors
of large cities, end even candidates for prefectural
assemblies are  ently approved by party headquarters
In the case of both Diet members and local executives
the rarty headquarters has felt free to act against the
recomiendations of the local chapter.
This centralized control over the activities of the
local branches is not carried out by a well organized
party machine. The only link between the local and
national orgenizations for all practical purposes is the
party's prefectural representatives in the Diet. The
Diet members are responsible for conveying the policies
and plans of the national heedquarters to the local branches
and conversely for representing the local chapters at
national headquarters. This method of maintaining party
organization is enti ely cependent upon the individual
Diet member, who srends most of Lis time in Tokyo, and
who may or may no: be an effective leader of the local
branch. In effeet the local branches spend most of
their time waiting for their Diet members to return from
Tokyo to provide Teacerslin cna direotion.  When a pre-
feotural branch oes not have representatives in the Diet,
it is virtually cut cff from party headquarters and is
severely handicapyed in rebuilding its local strength.
The party headquarters does not give any financial
assistanoe to its local chapters which must finance all
local aotivities cus of their own sources of revenue.
The ohapters of the conservative parties do not as a rule
colleot dues from their members and their only regular
source of income is an assessment on their representatives
in the prefecturel and municipal assemblies. In a few
cases a party's Diet members also contribute regularly
to the local ohaptei, but in general Diet members make
a fixed contribution to the nationel party treasury
Private contributions to the local branch represent the
main source of income. The local branches do not give
financial support to their candidates, and in at least
one
RESTRICTED

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
alosure to Tokyo'e De
Nos 560,June-6,19
RESTRIOTED
one instance candidates were obligated to make rira
contribution to the local chapter and the national hoad
quarters in return for obtaining official party endormomel
This lack of steady financial support means that the looal
branohes are limited in their ability to strengthen their
organization by employins full- or part-time party workera
or carrying out yeer-round activities. At the present
time the local conservative leaders are aware that they
must seek some means of increasing their sources of income
if they are to broaden the scope of their local activities
In some instances, plans are underway to begin membership
drives cesigned to  lit active, dues-paying members.
The local organization of the conservative parties
is active only during the time of a national election.
The one. field of political activity that might serve
as a stimulus to loesl party organization is local polities
and in this field the party leaders are generally epathetio
Party leaders even ex ressed their opposition to the.
introduction of party politics into city and town govern-
ment, contending thet it was in the interests of better
government to keer pertison polities out of this level.
This attitude is furt r borne out in the recent by-elections
when it was the exee tion re ther than the rule for the
conservative parties to sponsor a candidate for town mayor,
town assembly seats or the sorresponding positions in.
the smaller cities. Cnly in contests for governor, the
prefectural asseably, cr the offices in the large cities
have the conserva ive  ties made any effort to compete
for offices The conservutive parties said that the
party supported the de endea candidates for the minor
virtually no election s too small for the Communists to
compete. In one ten i.e Prefecture where the entire
town assembly wae tc e chosen in a by-election. there
was no contest sin sne u he of candidates equaled
the number of serts o s filled. The candidates, and
conseguently the eleeted assemblymen, were divided
between independents cna Comunists.
Without exception, the local conservative leaders
are extrenely coneerneå with the advances of the Communist
Party in their prefectures. They seem to be aware of
the faot that the Communists have introduced new taotios
into political c paigning. Thet t he Communists appeal
to voters on the tax issue, to take one example, has had
a direct bearing on con unist gains. The conservative
leaders appear to realize that they too must change their
tactios and appeal to voters on issues which erfeot
daily life. But these leaders lack imagination in
directing a counter-campaign. They have very little
initiative in planning activities to meet the sita tion
in their local area. Or, if they have plans, they are
unable to carry them out. either because the looal chapter
lacks money, or more important, because they lack
enthusiastio
RESTRICTED

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
leadorshit
The Demooratic Liberal Party
In the five prefectures visited, the Demoom
Liberal Party (DLP) won resounding viotories in
prefeotures; namely, Osaka, Hiroshima, and Hyogo.
failed to make substantial gains in Kyoto and Shi
In the latter two prefectures, especially Shimane the
Demoorats were able to maintain their position in view
the personal hold of two of their leaders.
In Kyoto the DLP 1s well organized on paper with
branohes in each of the 16 gun in the prefecture and
the 7 wards of Kyoto city The party olams 3,Ooo member
in the prefecture, but admits that membership is very
loosely defined end does not represent active party
workers. The looal chapter has reoently started a youth
corps and has plans to hold lecture meetings for its
younger members. In Jhimane the DLP has virtually no
party organization, even on paper. The party had two
oandidates in the recent election, one of whom was eleeted
This candidate received no support from the party and hi
victory was due to is personal appeal to the voters.
In Hyogo on the other hand, the DIP has a fairly
extensive and as ive organization and claims a membership
of 30,000: The chapter has attempted to collect dues from
its members et  of 100 yen a month, but admits
that its only regulsr source of income is from party
members in the Irereotural assembly and in the Kobe
Municipal Assemily. The DLP chapter here has drawn up
a very extensive youth corps organization which will,
after approval by nationel headquarters, become the basis
for the DLp's organization of youth corps in other pre-
fectures. The DIf headquarters has instituted a polioy
to activate loccl youth ccrps to combet the spread of
communism. To dnts the Hyogo chapter of the youth
corps has not gone much beyond the planning stage, but
the party branch has printed circulars explaining the
purpose of the corps with blanks attached for membership
applioation. Youth is, of course, defined very broadly
to include  en between the ages of 20 and 40 and women
between 20 and 35 years of age The women's and men's
corps are parallel orgenizations. The originator of
the youth corps organization in Hyogo was among those
leaders of the DLP present at the discussion and he was
somewhat more alert and enthusiastic that the usual
conservative politician encountered on the trip. However,
in discussing the planned activities for the youth corps
he apparently had nothin in mind except monthly lecture
meetings to inforn the youth of the dangers of oommunism.
Beyond
RESTRICTED

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
REBTRICTED
Beyond that, because of lack of funds, he did
what the youth corps could do to attrapt a lars
membership. He had not given any oonsideration to
politics as a means of developing interest in the corps
and training new leadership. This absence of interest in
local politics as a field of activity for the youth aorpa
was particularly striking in view of the fact that the
leader of this group admitted that the corps was more
successful in recruiting members in the rural rather than
in the urban areas, and it is in the rural areas that
there appears to be a dearth of candidates for the numerous
elective offices.
The Democratic Liberal Party in Hiroshima Prefeoture
elected 7 candidates out of a total of 12 seats in this
prefecture. Here as elsewhere party membership figures
are low, nu erin only z000 who are not all active in
party affairs. The DIP leaders admitted that the party
did very little for its candidates in the eleotion and
gave them no financial support: The leaders were of the
opinion that in Hiroshima people in the rural areas voted
primarily for the candidate, while in the urban centers.
the party was more important than the individual candidate
in drawing votes. The party leaders estimated that the
cendidates spent at least 500,000 yen on the cempaign,
although the legal maximum expenditure was between 85,000
and 110, 000 yen.
Osaka has been the traditional stronghold of the
Minseito and its successor, the Democratio Party, and
also of the Socialist Perty. This year the DIP made
notable gains, electing 10 candidates, while the Democrats
failed to elect any In Osaka as elsewhere the DLP has
a loose organization and a small membership. The party
attributes its victory here to the unpopularity of the
Sooialists and the Demoorats, and considered that the
party label rather than the candidate was more important
in electing the DLP members. The party leaders in Osaka
are more alive to the fact that they must become more.
active if they are to hold the gains made in the recent
election since both the Democrats and the Socialists are
potentially stronger than the DLP in Osaka. The DLP
leaders are tclking of initiating an active program on
taxes, housing, and proourement of capital for small
businessmen, but even here the leaders are waiting for
their Diet members to return in order:to start the program.
The Democratic Party
The Demooratic Party's organizatión on a local
level had virtuelly disintegrated even before the election
due to the unpopularity of the coalition cabinets in which
it participated and the defection from the party of local
members as well. es Diet members. In the post eleotion
period the division of what remained of the party between
the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRIOTED
the Ashida and Inukai factions has seriously handkps
the local chapters in rebuilding their organization.
Further, the local chepters are in e oritical. finanoial
situation since they are unable to obtain large contri-
butions due to their lack of national and looal prestige
On the other hand, in instances where looal party organi-
zation has been synonymous with the personal following
of an individual lead r the party has managed to maintain
some local'strength.
Kyoto prefecture and more especially the second
distriot is the stronghold of Ashida, and despite his
personal involvement in political soandals he had no
difficulty in being reelected. The Demoorats, under
Ashida's leadership, elected three members to the: lower
house from Kyoto, In Shimane much the same situation
obtains. XImURA Kozaemon inherited the political mantle
of former Premier  TSUKI who had been throughout the
late 1920's and 1930"s boss of the Minseito. Kimura's
control in Shimane is virtually complete, and there is
no party orgenization outside his personal following.
The perty, or rather Kimura, elected its only two
candidates to the Diet.
In contrast to the personal type of party organization
in Kyoto and Shimane, is the Democratic Party organization
in Hiroshima. Here the party organization was dissipated
by secessions of members and the party failed to eleot
any candidetes in the recent election for the House of
Representatives. This failure to elect anyone to the Diet
will make it all the more difficult for the party to
rebuild its strength in Hiroshima since it will be.cut
off from national party headquarters.and will be unable
to draw financial assistance from looal members. The
party attributed its lack of publio support in part: to
the fact that in the rural areas voters are attracted
to candidates with important offices or.titles which the
Democratio party candidates did not have. The Demacrats
also claim that the DLP candidates prior. to. the announoement
of their candidacy contributed large sumas of money to
leaders of various local orgenizations and in return these
lea lers delivered the votes of their members to the DLP.
In Hyogo the Democratic Party elected three candidates.
Party organization has since become divided on the
Inukai-Ashida split--about two thirds of the local member-
ship supports Ashida, while the rest supports Inukai. On
the other hand, the prefectural assembly membership of
the party has been merged with the DLP membership ever
sinoe the first Yoshida Cabinet in 1946. This tends. to
weaken the looal organization of the party and to limit
1ts ability to pursue an independent course.
It was
RESTRICTED

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
TRIOTED
It was in Oaaka whioh has heratofore b
stronghold of the Democratio Party's predeoagper
Minseito, that the Demoorats surfered a disastroum
The Demoorats failed to elect a single member to thm Di
although they competed for 7 of the 19 seats. Onthe
other hand, it was in Osaka that the only paid, proreasid
party organizer was found. TADokORo Kyuiohi, until about
a year ago a purgee, joined the Demooratic Party around
September 1948, and sometime sinoe then he has: been
hired by the party to fill the full-time paid position of
Secretary General of the local chapter
Tadokoro started his career in the Salvation Army
in Kobe in 19l9. For the next 7 years he worked for
KAGAWA Toyoihiko organizing Salvation Army drives in
and around Kobe. After that he operated a fuel business
in Osaka until about 1937 and it was there that he became
interested in the esteblishment of the Commercial-Industrial
League, which was a national organization of about 12,000
small industrialists who banded together to avoid being
swallowed up by the Zaibetsu. During the war the League
was abolished and replaced by the Society for Commercial
Service to the State which in turn was strictly controlled
and utilized by the government as part of its plan to
centralize economic organization. This latter. organiza-
tion was disbanded in April 1945, and it was apparently
for his connection with it that Tadokoro was barred from
holding public office. He was cleared about a year ago
and immediately joined the People's Cooperative Party.
In September 1948, when the Osaka chapter of that party
was dissolved, Tadokoro joined the Demooratic Party.
Tac oro apparently succeeded in convincing the
old line Lemooratie Party bosses that what the party
needed was a strong locsl organization, and more than
that he appears to have the support of some prominent
national members. He did not become Secretary General
of the Osaka chapter until just after the election, having
previously served as a paid employee of the party in
charge of organization. His task now is to draw up a
table of organization for the Osaka chapter which will
in turn be submitted to national headquarters for
adoption in other local chapters. Tadokoro is apparently
connected with the Ashida faction of the party, and he may
possibly have the support of NARAfasiI Wataru.
At the present tine Tadokoro is studying communist
techniques of party organization and activity.  He
believes that the Demoorats should have a daily struggle
campaign, emphasizing clothing, food, housing and taxes.
He was the only part: leader who frankly spoke of the
problems created hy the unwillingness of the Democratic
Party to criticils the Occupation's policies, while at the
same
RESTRICTED

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
June 6, 1949
RESTRICTED
-8-
same time feeling the need to criticize polioies whioh
effected the daily fe of the people. Aocording to
Tadokoro, it is necessary to be critical of tho polioine
of the government if the party is to. have any popular
following, but just where the policies of the government
end and those of the Occupationbegin presents a dirrioult
problem. The Denocratic Party ihoOsaka apparently
suffered acutely fron charge made by the Communists that
the Democrats were tools of the Occupation, and, as
Tadokoro explained, it is only: natural that the people
should react asainst the suppressive aspeots of the Oooupation
or for that matter of any power whieh was beyond their
control, but which, at the same time, controlled their
daily livelihood.
Tadokoro's plens are in many ins tances far.from
being activatea. te has enoountered opposition from the
old-line perty bosses end ha en forced to compromise
with then at every turn. Cn the other hand, his plans
for local party organization are at least drawn up to.
meet the reguire ents of tie existing political situation,
and show a marked tonlency to bring the Democratic Party
down to a worlking leval where it will have some basis for.
appealins to the eople in terns they can understand.
The Sociellst Party
The Socislist Pay declined in strength in the year
prior to tne S49 slection, but sinee the election there
has been a otsble  erease in its membership end evidence
o local brenel rer nizetion. The primary source of
this new feust st  u. ie in the ranks of labor.
it the tile of the election the leadership of the
umions arriliated itn the Je an Federation of Labor (Sodomei),
in the prefectures visited on this trip, suprorted the
Socialist Party but te rink and file union members, who
were not enbers of the rarty, did not support the Socialists
at the polls. P rty lemders  ttribute this situation
to severol fuctors. Ia the first place, the Sodomei
convention in the f1l of 1s48 passed a resolution stating
thet members of Soiomei unions were free to surit a
politicel perty of their own choosing. Prior to this there
Lad been an unwritten
thet Sodoneiunion members
sup orted the Socialists. Party leaders feel that in
the past Sodomei members supported the Socialists more
or less out of force of habit, but in 1949, in view of
the statement at the convention, y former supporters
turned
RESTRICTED

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
turned to other Bartles.Seoondly, the
that they made aserious tactioal error in-op
their political activities only on the leaderes
union, assuming that these leaders would carry tholl
membership with them in support of the party. The
Socialists also admitted that there was very little
in the recent election for labor to support the party
since the party had not done an effective job of explaining
its position to labor.
Since the election, the Socialists have been aotive
among the ranks of labor in all prefeotures visited, with
the possible exception of Kyoto. In Hiroshima, for example
the Socialist Party and the leaders of the Demooratization
League (Lindo) have formed the Shakaito Saiken Tinkai, to
coordinate party and labor activities. This coumittee
is currently running the local party branch, since the
branch leaders resigned following the election. The
committee will determine when a general meeting of the
party will be held to elect new branch officers. Although
Hiroshima is the home prefecture of MORITA Tatsuo, right-
wing Socialist leader. it appears that the left wing of
the party is coming into control of the local chapter.
The local leaders here complained that prior to the
election the party headquarters opposed the policy of
political activity among the labor unions, although many
members of the Hiroshima branch desired closer relations
with labor and, conversely, to give labor a larger role
in the leadership of the local chapter. The present trend
in Hiroshima is to bring the labor leaders, especially
the Mindo group, into the ranks of party leadership.
In Eyogo the Socialist branch has begun to organize
"worksho? councils" which are actually party cells in
factories and plunts. Mindo leaders are apparently
cooperating with this movement and encouraging their
adherents to participate in political activity through
these Sociali. P rty cells. In Hyogo the Seamen's
Union, formerly under the leadership of YONEkUBO Mitsusuke,
is very strong and is the nucleus of labor support
received by other Socialists.
In Osaka the relation of the Socialist Party to the
Mindo movement and to labor in general is complioated
by several factors. In the first place, the leadership
of the Osaka brunch of the party is stiil under the
influence of NIsHIo Suehiro and his associates and is,
if not aotually hostile toward Mindo, at least concerned
with the possibility thst Mindo leaders will eventually
challenge their leauership of the party branch. The
Socialists leaders envisage labor as only one of several
component parts of the leadership group, while labor,
especially as represented by the Mindo group, is
unwilling to be dominated by the party. Mindo leaders
have joined the Socialist Party, and the party has welcomed
them as a means of rebuilding its labor support, but the
relationship between the two appears to be a marriage of.
convenience in which neither completely trusts the other.
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
REBTRIOTED
-10-
The Socialists have also been ectively att
to rebuild their strength within Sodomei. This
to an extremely embarrassing incident, referred to
the Tour-two incident", which, instead of strengthening
the party's position with labor, has served rather to
weaken it. The Osaka Municipal Government is controlled
by the Socialists, headed by Mayor Konda who is apparentiy
a long-time associate of Nis io in the construction buaines
On April 2, Sodomei held a labor parade and unfortunately
the Japanese police were over-cautious in their interpre
tation of an orderly as opposed to a disorderly demonstra-
tion, and the episode ended up by the police turning fire
hoses on the paraders. Only a few days prior to this
incident the National Congress of Industrial Unions
(Sambetsu), the communist-dominated labor federation, had
held a labor parade without similar mishaps. Sodomei
and the Socialists im ediately denanded the discharge of
Suzuki, the Chief of the Osake Lunicipal Police, as the
official responsible for the "four-two incident". The
party, because it was in control of the municipal govern-
ment, took up the issue of Suzuki's discharge on the
grounds thet he persecuted labor and the Socialists
publicized the inci ent and the discharge of Suzuki as
evidence of their role es the great defenders of labor.
Unfortunately, when the party took up the matter of dis-
charging Suzuki, the Occupation authorities opposed his
removal on the groun's that he wes necessary to the
maintenance of law and order. The Socialists are of the
opinion, rightly or wrongly, that they have lost rather
than sined labor support by the inoident. As for as
labor is concerned, the situ. tion appears to be one in
which the Socialists promised to remove a police chief on
the rounds of his nti-labor activities from a municipal
Government which the Sooialist control, and have failed
to carry out their romise. Socialists leaders are rabid
on the subject of the "four-two incident", and contend
thet the result has been to strenethen the Cormunist
Party's position in tme ranks of labor
In all of the prefeotures visited the Socialists
appear to have lost considerable fermer support in the
recent election. The vote of the Mippon Nomin Kumiai
(Japan Farmers' Union) eitrer split between the Socialists
and the Conmmunists, or went entirely to the Communists,
according to estimetes of the Socialists leaders. In
Shimane and Osaka the party claims that the Nk supported
the Communists for the ost part; in Hiroshima it supported
the Socialists; in Hyoso only a part of the Mm supported
the Socialists, while in Kyoto most of the NNT vote
went to the Social Renovation Candidate OISHI Yoshio,
a former Socielist. Zenkoku Nomin Kumiai (National Farmers
Union - Zenno) also supported different parties in each
prefeoture. In Shimane it supnorted Socialist candidate
FICUCHI Yoshinori, who was, however, repudiated by the
Socialist Party in Shimane. In Kyoto the Socialists
claimed the support of Zenno as they did in Osaka. In
Hiroshima the the Socialist leaders claimed that Zenno
supported the Coninunists.
one
RESTRICTED

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
okyou
Despatch No. 360,
June 6, 1949
RESTRICTED
-11
One Socialist leader in Eyogo explained the rar
attitude as follows: Before the land reform law
into effect the tenant fermers had much cause for oomplal
and were inclined to be a dissident element and thereror
anti-conservative. The land reform law made these tenant
farmers landowners thus changins their attitude. Prior to
their aoquisition of land taxes and quota deliyries of
rioe were all handled through the landlord who took this
amount in addition to his rent, and the total sum was.
considered by the tenant as payment to the landlord for
rent. Therefore, their antagonism was directed toward
the conservative landlord The Communists were able to
appeal to these former tenant fermers on the ground that
the returns from their newly ac uired land were not theirs
because the government of which the Socialist Party was
a part, took away money for taxes and forced the sale of
rice at fixed prices. The Socialist leaders, at least
in Hyogo, believe this was one of the most ffective appeals
of the Conmunists in the rural sreas.
Jane M. Alden

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.90)
NORTHEAST ASIAN
Unitec 3t
No. 365
JUL-51949
COINF IDENTIALDEPARIMENT OF STATE TOKYO
Jun
(For Department Use Only)
Astion
BO'D
JUXB 28
Action Ta
AOTION
B
Subject: Japanese Opinion of tha EleotronLaw
Lo of Action
DNFO
DCR
A.110. 0f:100 Symb0l
UNA/R
The Honorable
OLI
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Direett  DCR-
Sir:
I have the honer to refer to this Mission's
desp: tches nos. 94 and 114 of Jebru ry 14 and February 21,
194s, resrectively, concerning the Japanese general
6-949
•1/
election of January Bt, nd to transmit a memorandun
discussins the views of Japanese election officials and
local politicul leadiers concerning the Election Law,
prepared by Irs Jane . iD, currently assigned to
t is Hission by the Derert ent.
The eccloses emor  lu. wes prepare as a result
o' field uri r  Iyoto, Osale, Lyogo, Shimane,
and Tirosi is rrefwetmes in conneeclon with the prepara-
sio: of s st i ct the Jenusry  ceneral election.
Laserial or this . eernde. was obt ined fron extensive
Interviows ith Ja  ese electlon ofiicials na local
leuuers of    or politieel parties in the prefectures
visited.
Discussis vit loa.l officiuls ad political
leaders ieveeled cc lci erable disseti faetion vith the
oreratior of  e Election Lew, es eciclly its fuilure
to  ovile for adegte ce callicits for oendidates in
oleir et iis. It is e reed tat tl is shortoomin
locs nou rovice vecers vith snfricient inforiation
for i. n i telli eit c oice on tie irsues involved.
ne tler eriticis ot t e lection Lew is the rner in
 ie: ss pioti teis eirou seribe t e rotivities of
olicicl nirtiee so s ch  extsit tnat t. ey sre not
 le to as ist their on iaates ade uately ever to the
linited ex  t wiie vs o sitle under the previous
Wleetion L It is felt a. clis sistation further
e.phasizes lo t e voter the i ortance of the candidete
as oprosed to the party.
General
FTLRD
D DE TA
2
21949
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATIOU OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
orfioiala and
impoaea a heavy financial burdend
tions because or inadequato appropriationafro
national treasurer to defray eleotion oosta
hes intensified the present critioel staterof loo
ment finances. At the same time, runds made ay
are not sufficient to provide for the satisfactory publ
management of. campaigns which the Election Law requires
Criticism was also made of limitations imposed by th
Election Law on the methods cnd extent of campaign spee
Since the law limits campaign expenditures and ciroumsatl
the assistance political parties mey render. their candidat
speeches by individual candidates play very important
part in the conduct of a campaign.
Some disagreement was found among those interviewed
as to the most suitable size for electoral distriats.
Persons affiliated with the majority Democratic Liberal
Party strongly favor small, single-member electoral
districts, while leaders of the sa ller parties are for the
most part satisfied with the present system. The Communists
in particular favor large, multi-member districts since
this system gives the saller parties a greater advantage.
It is generally agreed that the mechanical operation
of the present Election Law is too cumbersome and compli-
cated, that it imposes unnecessary burdens and limitations
on both candidates and parties, and that the public
management of campaigns is too costly to the local adminis-
trations.
Respectfully yours,
CleneMAuntino
Cloyce K. Fuston
Charge d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure:
Memorandun by Jane M. Alden
entitled "Opinions of Japanese
Election Officials and Leaders
of the Major Political Parties
Regarding the Elegtion Laws"
gum
Parchment Mat to Department.
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.96)
Opinions af Lananase Dlection Offiaiala and Leadars
of the Maior Palitical Parties agarding the Dectien 
The prefectures covered in this report are Iyoto, Hyoge.
Hiroshima, Shimane and Osaka. Separate discussions were held
with representatives of the prefectural election committees,
and officials of the local government concerned with electiens,
and with leaders of the four major political parties, the
Democratic Liberals, the Democrats, the Socialists and the
Communists. This report represents a consensus of the views
expressed by these leaders.
SUMOLARY
Discussions with election officials and party leaders
led to the following general conclusions: 1. the election
campaign law did not provide for adequate publicity for the
campaign and as a result the voters did not have available
to them sufficient information on candidates or issues;
2. the responsibility for the supervision of the campaie
rested primarily with the local government officials rather
than with the prefectural election committee; 3. the financial
burden on prefectural and local governments to supplement the
funds provided by the national government accentuated the
already critical problem of local government finances; 4. the
campaign law in effect made it difficult for political parties
to be of any assistance to their candidates, the burden of the
campaign resting on the candidate himself, thus further emplhasising
the izportance of the candidate as opposed to the party: 5. there
was ge oral agreement that a check-off ballot was administratively
feasilie and also that it was desirable; 6. there was no agree-
ment on changes in the sise of the electoral districts or the
representation from each district.
Carmaisn Speachan.
The eleotion campaign law provided for three types of
campaign speeches - competitive speech meatings, private speech
meetings and street speeches. As regarås competitive spesches
the political party leaders and election officials approved of
this campaign medium, but suggested that the number of such
speeches should be increased in order that the candidate could
reach a larger number of voters in the district and that the
COHFIDNTIAL

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
tima for the individl
mit a faller epressien of
pelitical leaders did mot think that the
helped their candidates, but they canceded
of this type of mesting warrented an inorease
that the andience was cemposed largely of partisem suppertere
who heckled the opposing speakers and applanded their omm cam
didate creating disorder and giving the impressiem to the
audience in general that the particular candidate had a large
popular following.
The provision of the law rolating to the private speech
meeting drew the most criticiam from the various party leaders
and officials interviewed. There was no party line on the
suggested changes in the regulations regarding private speech
meetings. The majority of those interviewed, regardless of
party affiliation, favored an increase in the number of private
speech meetings authoriged, and a number of leaders supported
the proposal that the number of private meetings should be un-
limited. A minority (the Democrats in Kyoto, the Democratie
Liberals in Hyoto and the Socialists in Hiroshima) favored the
elimination of all private speech meetings. There was agreement
that there was not adequate publicity by the election committees
as to the time and place of such meetings. In one prefecture
(Hyogo).for example, the committee put up only an average of
10 posters announcing the holding of each private speech meeting.
In addition the parties complained that the posters drafted by
the election committee lacked imagination and were too much alike.
The parties and officials were in favor of turning over to the
political parties and candidates the responsibility for making
their own arrangements for private speech meetings and all the
publicity attendent upon such meetings. One suggestion was made
to the effect that the parties should be responsible for all the
arrangements for private meetings with the election committee
continuing to pay the expenses. The selection of the place for
the private meetings by the committee was the subject of
universal criticiam. The committees selected public buildings.
usually schools, which were often located in inaccessable places
or in areas away from the center of a party's potential audience.
There was general agreement that private speech meetings should
not require the presence of the candidates, nor for that matter
should street speeches require a candidate to be present.
The provisions in the election campaign law relating to
the number of times a representative of a candidate could speak
for the candidate were the subject of considerable criticiem by
the various party leaders and election officials. There was
goneral agreement that the representatives of a candidate
should be permitted to speak more often without his presence.
It was obvious that in some cases this criticism stemmed from
the poor showing made by some candidates in speech meetings and
the fact that the party would have been able to provide more
effectire speakers. In other cases the criticism was based on
the fact that if more people had been able to deliver speeches,
without the presence of the candidate, more voters would have been
reached and the electorate would have been better acquainted with
the policies of the various parties. In addition, as one
Democratic Party official s tated, speeches are the principle
weapon of a candidate and a party that lacks extensive financial
support.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
in the cities and towns within their
fectural election committee is assisted 
the case of all prefectures visited this pscreter
from the regular staff of the General Affairs I
the Local Affairs Section of the prefectural
members of the secretariat werved concurrently
In actual fact the secretariat ran the elections in mest
instances, although there was some variation in the degree to
which the election committee participated in the supervimiox
of the election depending on the personality of the committee
chairman. Also the degree to which the secretariat sought
the guidance of or consulted with the committee varied from the
extreme in which the secretariat took complete responsibility for
the election at the suggestion of the election committée, to the
case where the committee did take general responsibility fer the
formulation of policy leaving the implementation  te the secretariat.
Where the committee was at all active the question of the budget-
ing and expending of election funds was a bone of contention
between.the committee and the local government as represented by
the committee secretariat. In two prefectures the election
committee complained that it had no control over the financial
aspects of the election, that the committee was ignored in making
the original estimates of funds needed for the election, that the
committee was without influence in determining how the funds re-
ceived from the national government should be expended, and that
in actual fact the suggestions of the committee on such matters
as the putting out of publicity materials concerning the election
were rejected by the local government officials on the basis of
insufficient funds. One Blection Committee chairman pointed out
that if it is the intention of the law to estahlish an election
committee to supervise the campaign and the election which is
independent of the local and national government, then it is
essential that the committee have a role in the determination of
how the election funds are to be spent.
Another aspect of the financial problem is that of local
governments supplementing the funds allotted by the national govem-
ment for the election. In all cases there was a complaint that
not enough money was provided for the election and in all c ases
the money spent on the election exceeded the amount received from
the national government. Whether or not this was primarily due
to inadequate funds or whether it should be attributed to poor
management on the part of local election officials is not immediate-
ly evident. It would appear. however, that there was not sufficient
money allocated by the national government to provide adequate
campaign services. In the case of a prefecture like Osaka, the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
fectures the money expended frem local f
but proportionately high in terma of the
fecture. One election official suggested that inst
ing money to the prefectures on the basis of popnlati
a city of the same population that was spread out over censider
able distance where more polling places would be required in pre-
portion to the population. This official is assuming that the
total amount allotted by the national treasury for the election.
was adequate and that it was the distribution of the funds by
the national committee that was the cause of the shortage of funds
in his prefecture.
Party leaders and election officials showed considerable
understanding, of, even if they did not always agree with, the
basis need for economizing in election expenditures both in terms
of public funds expended and the amount of money a candidate and
party were permitted to spend on the election. On the other hand.
it was pointed out that there is a point beyond which a cheap.
election is in fact a delusion. Too drastic limitations on
campaign expenditures, whether public or private funds, tends to
encourage rather than discourage the spending of money outside
of the provisions of the law. On the basis of the information
obtained in the prefectures visited, it appears that the majority
of the candidates spent considerably more then the legal limit.
and that because outlets for the spending of money were aeverely
limited this money went into channels which did not afford the
voters as a whole any opportunity to learn more about candidates
and parties. For example, parties and candidates could not put
up posters, distribute handbills, etc., where they might actually
exceed their authorized campaign expenditures by putting out very
elaborate campaign materials, or by distributing more than the
quantity permitted. If this had been the case, as it has been
in past elections, the voter would at least have received some
bensfits from the increased publicity. Instead as the campaign
progressed it became obvious to most candidates that they were
not getting adequate publicity through the authorized channels
and therefore they sought to increase their chances of being
elected by distributing money where it would do the most good
and would be the least conspicuous. It is recogmized, of course.
that bribery in any one of many forms has been prevalent in
past Japanese elections and that it is very difficult to control
this type of activity. but at the same time it is possible that the
absence of sufficient outlets for campaign propaganda made the
distribution of money more of a necessity than usual.
Funda for tha Public Managed Campaign.
The problems of providing more funds for the public managed
election campaign was a subject of frequent discussion with
party leaders and election officials. The easiest and most
common solution was to suggest that the national government put
up more money for the election. Barring this possibility, and
assuming the need for more funds for election campaign there was
a division of opinion as to whether the candidates should be re-
quired to give more money to the election committee for their
campaign, or whether the public managed campaign should be limited
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
in scepe and, the parties and candidates allowed te
more freely in the campaign. All groups realised thatt
more money from each candidate would eliminate memy
from the competition. One interesting suggestion was
by the election officials in Osaka. They suggested that each
candidate be required to put up a total of 50,000 yen for his
public managed campaign and that the guarantee bond as such be
eliminated. At the present time the candidate is required te put
up 20,000 yen for his public managed campaign and 30, 000 yen a
a guarantee bond, but the 30, 000 yen is returned to him after the
election if he receives more than a specified number of votes.
While the deposit of 50,000 yen with the election.committee for
the campaign would be in reality an increase in the amount of
money the candidate was required to furnish for his campaign.
since no portion of it would be returnable, the suggestion that
the guarantee bond is no longer necessary is worth consideration.
It was the cont ention of the election officials that the purpose
of the guarantee bond, which was originally instituted to dis-
courage irresponsible candidates with no chance of being elected
from competing. was in effect accomplished by the requirement that
a candidate contribute 20,000 yen to the government for his public
managed campaign.
Political Party Activity in the Campaign.
In almost all cases the political party leaders stated that
their party was unable to assist its candidates in the election
campaign even to the extent they had assisted them in previous
years. The Communist Party constituted the main erception to this,
although even this party desired a relaxation of the restrictions
on party activities. The only other exception was in the case
of the Democratic Liberal Party in two prefectures where the party
organization had been strengthened as compared to 1947 when it
was extremely weak.
With the exception of the Communists, political perties do
not, and have never, rendered any financial assistance to their
candidates to meet campaign expenses. In the past the parties
have been moderately active in assisting their candidates by
providing speakers, holding party rallies, putting out general
party publicity, and similar activities. Bither as a result of
the provisions of the campaign law. or as a result of the inter
pretation of these provisions, the parties were for the most part
inactive in the campaign. In the past the elections have provided
an occasional and much needed stimulus to party organisation,
and serve as a means of building up party organisation. Moreover.
the Japanese voter is inclined to consider the candidate more
important than the party. and the absence of party activity in
this election campaign only served to reinforce the importance of
the candidate as an individual and the relative mimportance of the
party in the minds of the voter.
GONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
capaigm law relating to the role of the press in th
sheuld be relazed. The party leaders and eleetiom offid
alse recemmended that the newspaper advertisement for 
candidate be placed in a newspaper of the candidates own chees
House-to-house canvassing of voters was generally disapproved,
but there were several complaints that the interpretatiens of the
law prohibited a candidate from soliciting friends and acquainta
whom he met on the streets. The election officials and s everal
party leaders in Osaka suggested an increased in the mailing
privileges from the present 1.000 postcards to the former 10,000.
In Osaka one party pointed out that the distribution of
candidates biographies by the election committee was made only
three days before the election and that this did not allow
sufficient time for the voter to study this material.
leader suggested that the distribution should be made earlier in
the campaigm, and if the period during which a candidate could
register his candidacy was reduced to the first five days of the
campaign the biographical material could be distributed earlier.
Check-aff Ballot.
The election officials, with the exception of those in
Shimane, favored the introduction of a check-off ballot, that
is a ballot which'lists the candidates names and requires the
voter only to mk the name of the candidate he wishes to vote
for. The election officials considered that this type of ballet
would reduce the number of invalid ballots, would make ballot
counting easier, and would make it easier for the voter to cast
his ballot. While the Shimane election officials agreed that a
check-off ballot would reduce the number of invalid votes they
contended that the people would not underetand how to use this
type of wailot, whereas they had had long experience with the
write in ballot. All of the election officials agreed that it
would be administratively possible to print up the ballots and
distribute them prior to the election providing the period during
which a candidate could register his candidacy was reduced to
about the first five days of the campaign. The eleotion officials
pointed out that in actual practice most candidates register their
candidacy during the opening days of the campaign. Some questions
were raised as to how to meet such problems as the withdrawal of
candidates and the changes in party affiliation of candidates
after the ballots had been printed. As to the withdrawal of
candidates the election officials thought that the only way to
meet this problem was to delete the candidates name from all the
ballots, but at the same time they suggested that no refunds of
guarantee bond or campaign funds deposited with the committee
be made for any reason after a candidate has notified the
committee of his candidacy. The second problem that of the
changes in party affiliation of candidates after registration was
more difficult to solve. The best suggestion made was that the
responsibility for designation of official party candidates
rest with the parties and not with the candidates. In this way
the various officials thought there would be fewer cases of
changes in party affiliation.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.94)
soript, and that a sample ballot sheald be dis
to the electien te acquaist the vetere
Bize of the Electoral Districts.
On the questien of the size of the olecteral distriet
there was no agreement among the party leaders and elestien
officials. The ILP maimtained the most consistent attitade in
favor of a small, single-member electoral distriet. meag the
other party leaders and electiom officials the most frequent
opinion was expressed in favor of the present electeral district
system. The reason advanced for this was that the mall districts
would encourage bribery and gerrymandering. Some thought the
simgle-member district would help the communists, others thought
it weuld be to the disadvantage of the communists. The Commmists
were in faver of a large electoral district system, and barring
that they preferred the present system.
Jane m. aldr
Jane M. Alden
CONTIDBNTIAL

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.93)
094.00/6-1449
United States Politioal Advi
GVIS
for Japan
ORTHLAST
NO. 385
Tokyo, June 14, 1949.
1949
CONPIDENTIAL
REOD
(For Departrent Use Only)
in
JUN 29
Action Assigned to
ACTION
Action Tamm T
E
crialated to FEC members
INFO
Subject: Soviet Protest over Japanese-Police Aotfon-in-
DCR
Labor Demonstrations.
y,1949
ITP
OLI
NA
EUR
us mfin
The Eonorable
The Secretary of State,
894.00/6-1449
Washington.
C
Sir:
With reference to this Mission's airgram no. A-138
of June 4, 1949, concerning labor riots at the Tokyo
Letropolitan Assembly on Lay 30 and 31, 1949, during
which one labor demonstrator was killed, I have the
1/
honor to transmit a copy of a letter addressed to the
Supreme Commander on June 11, 1949, by Lieutenant General
Kuzma N. DREVYANO, Soviet Lember, Allied Council for
Japan, protesting strongly against alleged police brutality
in dealing with labor demonstrations. General Derevyanko's
letter was released to the pre: at the time of its
dispatch on June 1l by the Office of the Soviet Member,
plainly indicating the propaganda motive behind this action.
The Supreme Comander has not made formal reply to
the Soviet Member's letter, but on June 13 released to
the press an exce tionally blunt coment on the Soviet
3/
Member's communication. A copy of General MacArthur's
state..ent is enclosed.
In view of the extraordinarily caustic character of
the Supreme Conmander's coment, there is a possibility
that the Soviet Government nay make further issue of
this matter, either in the Fer Eastern Conmission or in
the Allied Council for Japan. This Mission has accordingly
requested the G-2 Section of General Headquarters for
full details of the Ma: 30-31 riots.
Respectfully yours,
JUL2
FILED
DeerceAnin
6
Cloyce K. Huston
6
DECLASSHIED
Charge'd'Affaires ad interimo
NND.780069
Blmw NAs, v18
0
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
Enclosures:
1. Letter from General Derevyanko
to eneral Lacrthur dated
June 11, 1949.
Tress release, June 15,
1949.
gvm
Parclment Lat to Derertment.
568.5
CNSpinks:mhp
CONNIDTL.L

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
Over Japanese
Demonstrations"
(COPY)
ALLIED COUNCIL FOR JAPAN
TOKYO
OFFICE OF THE MEMBER
FOR
THE UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
GTERAL HEADCUARTERS, SUPREE CCANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
GENERAL OF THE ARMY, DOUGLAS MACARTHUR
Dear General:
The ever increasing pressure on the part of the
present Japanese Government upon the democratic rights
of the Japanese people, the supression of the legal
activities of trade unions and other democratic organiza-
tions, and also the arbitrariness and chastisement com-
mitted by the Japanese police in connection with trade
union leaders, progressively minded persons and partioi-
pants of various labor demonstrations and meetings to
the present time have become facts deserving serious
attention.
Calling attention also the fact that the illegal
activities of the governmental and police organs,
intended to forcefully impede the democratization of
the nation, are taking place before the eyes of the
American Occupation authorities. General Eeadquarters
SCAP does not take any measures to the prevention of
these activities flegrently violating the Potsdam
Declaration and policies of the FC to the democratiza-
tion of Japan. These. focts explain the increasingly
great concern in the broad Japsnese public opinion for
the fate of democratization of their nation.
The asses of the people are indignant at the
activities of the present Japanese Government resorting
to the brutal sup ression of the democratic movement
by analogous rethods of violence and renression existing
turing the period of the militaristic domination of
Japan.
The occurrence in Tokyo on 30 and 31 May of the
brutal suppression by the Japanese police of the peaceful
demonstration consisting of representatives of trade
unions, student εnd ot er public orgenizations has
aroused a just indignation in the entire nation and beyon.
its borders.
As is

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
As 1s known, this suppression was ihi
participants of a peaceful demonatration oruu
employees, and students who gathered for the adle
of expressing their protest against the new "publie
Sarety Regulations" which were preconceived for Turphel
limiting the rights of labor and publio orgenizatione to
hold gatherings, meetings, and demonstrations
The Japanese police, attempting to disperse the demon
stration, began ruthlessly clubbing them, as a result one
member of the Tokyo City Transportation Únion, laborer
Kinji Hashimoto was killed by the police. Demonstrators
who were headed to the building of the Headquarters Tokyo.
Metropolitan Police vith protests against this bloody
suppression end with demands that punitive measures be
taken agcinst the ones uilty of the crime were not admitted
there and were subjected to new beatings by the police.
Gathering on the following day near the Tokyo Metropolitan
Assembly Hall, the representatives of numerous trade
unions and student organizations, with intentions to
demand punishment of those guilty of the killing of the
laborer Hashimoto, were again subjected to brutal beatings
by specially mobilized police numbering about 2,0o0
policemen. As a result of this one hundred demonstrators
received wounds and injuries and .ore than 60 persons
were arrested.
Bringing the above contents to rour attention, I
wish to express my hopes that, on your part, proper
messures will be t: ken to prevent illegal activities
and anti-labor measures which ere rracticed at this time
b the Japanese Government.
At the same time I wish to express my hope that you
will take approrriate measures for punishing those guilty
of the brutel suppressions of labor defonstrations snd
killing of le o rer Hashimoto.
Respectfully
FOA THE MBER, ALLIED JOUNGIL
FOR JAFA FACM TE U.S.SR.
General Leitenant
/s/ K. Derevvenko
/t/ K.  O
11 June 1949
No 1216

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
(COPY)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
Far East Command
Public Information Office
Immediate Release:
13 June 1949
GENEIAL MACARTIUR'S COLL ENT CN GENERAL DEREVYANKO'S LETTER
"The Soviet letter, replete with inaccuracies
and misrepresentations of fact, could be disregarded
as routine Soviet propagande did it not so completely
unmask the Soviet role as an incitor of disorder and
violence in an otherwise orderly Japanese society. The
thorough duplicity of its &pparent championship of
fundeental human rights on the one hand and the Soviet
callous inlifference to the release for repatristion of
Japanese prisoners of war on the other--its talk of
greater liberality for Japanese workers and the Soviet
practice of labor exploitation, is a shocking demonstra-
tion of inconsistent demagoguery. The purpose of the
letter is obviously two-fold: to incite irresponsible
and unruly inority e letents in Japan to violence and
disorderly resistance ageinst the duly constituted govern-
ment of Japan snd the lavful orders and processes thereof
with a view to creating confusion, unrest and bewilderment
in the renks of the law-abiding Japanese sses, and to
screen the Soviet unconscionable failure to abide by the
re uirements of International Law ana srecific Potsdam
conwtitnents in the return of over four hundred thousend
Ja panese citizens, long held in bondege, to' their hoteland.
This failure to neet international cominit ents and maintuia
normal stand:ils of human decency in the disposition of
captives finds little parellel in the history of modern
civilization, and is calculated so to outrage moral
sensibilities th t even the Japanese Conmunists have been
moved to register a bitter and indignant protest. The.
burdened eifort at tiis lste date to challenge the
number long publicly recorded as held in Joviet hands by
chergine mathematical error is srell solace indeed"to
hundreds of thousends of Je anese homes from whom no
sophistry can conceal the fact thet a family wember in
Soviet custody Las failed to return; and as to whom,
contrary to all international covenants respecting
prisoners of war, no word whatscever has been received
during the long period of ceptivity.
"For

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
"For the Soviet to speek in derogation
of labor in Japan is hypoorisy compounded
is based upon such fantastic exaggerations ms ob
to belie the truth. The Japanese labor laws maton
most progressive in their liberality and advanoed
and the labor movement here, despite its 1mmaturi
advanced more rapidly and with less friction than
counterpart in any of the denocratic countries or the
world.Incidents of violence heve been rare indeed and
ro segment of Japanese society has made such demooratio
cains as labor which enjoys rights and liberties and
safeguards largely unknown to the peoples of the Soviet
Union, which, following the totalitarian coneept, holds
under ruthless suppression individual liberty and personal
dignity.
"For the Soviet to speak of 'Democratic rights!, 'the
suppression of legal activities', 'arbitrariness and chastise-
ment', is enough to challenge the late lamented Ripley
at his imagination's best and leads one to conclude that
now there must really be nothing new under the sun."

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
JUN271949
DEPARTMENT OF STATE ToYo,
No. 396
UNCLASSIFIED
BEC'D
JUNE 24
or Action
ACTION
Subject: Transmitting Copies of "Report of Surveillance" dat
rice Sushol
FE ENC
Japan for the Period from January 1 to May 1. 1949
INFO
tion to D09
DCR
OLI
894.00/6-2049
The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose here-
with two copies of a "Report of Surveillance" dated May 28, 1949.
covering the local general and by-elections held in Japan during the
period from January 1 to May 1, 1949, as prepared by the Legal and
Government Division of the Military Government Section of Eighth
Army Headquarters.
The report, which relates only to local elections for the period
mentioned, covers 21o by-elections and 418 general elections, or a
total of 628. It is of interest to note that there were only 2,947
candidates for 2,055 offices, or about 44% more candidates than va-
cancies to be filled. The report also draws out the fact that polit-
ical parties have had little influence in the local elections, as the
voter normally casts his ballot for the person rather than for a polit-
ical party.
Enclosure:
Two copies of "Report of Surveillance"
dated May 28, 1949, covering General
and By-Elections in Japan from January
1 to May 1. 1949.
S 350/400.1
CKHus ton: gnd
JU221949
FILED
Parchment Mat to o Department
UNCLASSIFIED
DMF
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.96)
D-396 Tokye
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY
UNITED STATES ARIY
Military Goverment Section
HEPORT OF SURVEILLAICE
General and By-Elections
1 January to 1 Lay 1949
Prepared by
Legal and Government Division
28 1ay 1949

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
HEADQUARTERS EIGHTH ARMY
Military Government Seetion
Legel end Government Division
APO. 343
28 Nay. 1949
REPORT OF SURVEILLANCE
Reported Local General and By-Eleetions
1 January to 1 May 1949
1. Definition of Local Elections
Elections in Japen are of two types: the generel elections whether
netional or local and the by-elections whether netionel or local. The gen-
erel elections are those which are held in accordence with the laws for (1)
the regular election on the expiration of the incumbent's regular four-year
term of office, (2) vote of non-confidence ageinst the premier, governor or
mayor, (3) ection from recell petitions, which results in either the vacancy
of the offices of fovernor end mayor or in the dissolution of the assembly.
(4) death of the governor or mayor, end (5) resignation of the governor or
mayor. In Japan the term by-election hes a particuler definition. The by-
lections in Jepan are held for members of the National Diet, members of lo-
c:1 assemblies and members of the Agricultural Lend Commission and Agricul-
ril Adjustment Committee. They are held only to fill unexpired terms of
orfice. By-elections are provided for (1) members of the House of Represent-
atives in Article 79 end 80 of the Law for the Election of the Members of the
House of Representativec, (?) members of the House of Councillors in Article
71 and 72 of the Law for the Members of the House of Councillors, (3) members
of the Agriculturel Land Commission in the Agricultural Land Adjustment Lew
in Article 15, and (4) members of the Agricultural Ad iustment Committee in
Article 13, Cabinet Order No. 247 of 1948. By-elections for all local pub-
Lic bodies are provided for in Section VII in the Lew Concerning Locel Autonomy.
Both the general and the by-election cen be a no poll election. When
the number of candidates running equals the number of vecancies to be filled.
there is no contest end no vote is required.
II. Election Laws and Cabinet Orders
There are four lavs which provide for and govern the conduct of these
locel general and by-elections. Laws numbered 1, 3 and 3, listed below, pro-
vide a reason for having these elections and la's numbered 3 and 4 provide
the method and means for conducting them. The Cabinet Order for each law is-
sued in terms of each law gives imolementing deteils to aid in its administra-
tion.

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
1. The Law for Elcction of Members of the House of Representatives in
Article 67 stetes, "pubiic'officials of the State end local public entities
who, in accordanco with the provisions.of law, ere prohibited from holding
concurrently the office of member of the House of Representative, shall not
(file notice of candidecy for the House of Representatives) until efter the
persons concerned have resigned the office of public officials."
2. The Netional Public Service Law in Article 102 states, "no person
in the service shall be e candidate for elective public office."
3. The Lew Concerning Locel Autonomy provides not only a reason for
heving elections but also the processes by which they cen be conducted. The.
Law Concerning Local Autonomy in Articles 57, 92. 127, 141 and 143 provides
the legal restreints ageinst chiefs or assemblymen of locel public bodies
from becoming Diet members concurrently. The time limit within which all of
the elections must be held is provided for in Article 24 es follows, "..
the elections of the assemblymen of en ordinery public body end the chief
thereof shall be held forthwith within 60 deys of the date on which reasons
have occurred for holding such elections......" Moreover, in Chapter IV the
legal procedure is established for holding ell locel generel and by-elections.
The no poll election for locel governments is provided for in Article 58
of the Lew Concerning Locel Autonomy. This Article is besed upon similar pro-
visions in the former three femous organic acts: The Lew Concerning the Or-
genization of Prefectures, the Law Concerning the Organization of Cities, end
the Lew Concerning the Orgenization of Towns end Villeges.
4. The Lew Concerning the Regulation of Politicel Contributions end Ex-
penditures, Law No. 194 es of 29 July 1948, is the corrupt practices act of
Japan which limits political contributions end expenditures end establishes
penalties for infractions.
III. Election Surveillence Progrem
On 1l Febru ry 1949, a commend lutter wes dispatched by Headquarters
Fighth United States Army to subordinate headauerters concerned indiceting
the generel end by-elections which vould probebly occur in their zones of
responsibility end requesting two reports for each election. The first re-
port was to be submitted immediately unon ennouncement of the locel or gen-
erel by-election, giving the neme end locetion of the vecency and the date of
the election. The second report to be submitted within fourteen deys follov-
ing the date of the election required more deteiled information, including en
evelustion of the results. A negetive report was requested for each prefec-
ture not holding any elections.
The extensive surveillance of polling pleces end ballot counting sta-
tions was not required as on 25 Jenuary 1949 for the netional general elec-
tions. On that occesion all the military government teems, together with
2

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.98)
the many other surveillence teams composed of troops from the teotical
under their supervision, were required to be in the field an extended p
of time and to cover a wide area carefully. The sparsity and degree of da
paign activity in thess locel elections demanded little attention in comparl
son.
The Informetion Officer end the Legal and Government Officer of the teams
had crowded schedules on meny of these local elections as surveillence was ex-
ercised. Work of a preperatory nature for the holding of the election was per-
formed throughout the areas of election. Typicel of this type of program de-
veloped by all the militery government teams is that from Shiga as reported by
that Team:
"In order to insure a well inforned vote in the pest elections.
the following heve been done:
"a. Election circulars were produced and distributed locally.
"b. Mobile public address systens toured the prefecture,
"c. Spot announcements were nade at railway stations.
"d. Commerciel theaters ran slides urging the people to vote.
"e.
Conferences held with leaders of PTA, Women's end Welfare
organizations.
"f.
Newspapers end printed articles encoureged the people to
vote.
"g.
Leeflets vere scattered by airplane over the three cities
of the prefecture on one occasion.
"h. Circulers covering the Election Lews were distributed.
"i. Letters were sent to all election officials by the pre-
fecturel infornation scction.
"j. Large posters were made end distributed.
"k. 21 sign-boerds have been erected through the prefecture."
The election report from the Osake Militery Government Teem, (Tab A.)
after showing specific facts for en essenblyman's election, has included
(1) a stetement of the ectivities of the Teem's legel end governnent officer.
end (2) a summery of some of the crndidetes' cempeign "platforms."
3

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
IV. Summary of Results
The 628 reported local general and by-elections held in Japan from1
January to 1 May 1949 included 362 for executive positions and 266 for as-
scibly  psitions. There voro 210 by-olections. 57 for prefectural assem
blics, ? for municipal. 27 for town and 119 for village. There were 2.947
candidates contesting for the 2,055 offices. Thus, there was an averege of
approximatoly 1-1/3 candidates per office.
The position of political parties in Japanese local eloctions parti-
cularly so in toms and villages to a marked degree resembles that of the
partics in the United States or in Grcat Britain. Political partics lave
meant littlo. The voter casts his or her ballot for the person rether than
an adlurent to polit: 1 partios. The following figuros siow the degree to
which the number of political perty candidates was overvhelmingly dwarfed
by the number of independent candidates;
Humber of
Vinners for
Affiliation
Candidates
Number of Position
Democratic-Liboral
167
91
Democrat
51
23
Social Democrat
80
23
Cormunist
142
34
Minor Party
30
9
Indopendent
2477
1875
TOTAL
2947
2055
Other tabulations to show details of the lections are compiled in
Tab B.
As has beon traditional for the past half century in Japan. the major-
ity of the clcctions in the towms and villages averaging 5,000 to 10, 000
population with but 1.00o to 2 000 qualified voters, havo been uncontested;
the number of candidates always cquals the number of vacant positions to be
filled. During this four months period covered in this report, 47% of the
total nunber of clections, or 293, vere of this neture. In a few cases even
in vhich completely new villego assemblies vero to be electod, no formal pub-
lic vote vas held becauso only the minimum number of candidates filed. Thus,
there were no poll clections for the 22 seats in the town assembly of Miva
I achi in Hyogo Prefecture nor for tho l; seats in the village asscnbly of
Uchimali, Nara Prefecture, of Doshi, Yamanashi Profocture, of Kaniasakuna.
Ehime Prefecture and  Okava. Kyoto Prefecture.
Profectural and municipal clections have domonstrated usually much
nore political activity because more importance is attached to campaigning
or public office at those levels. Here, political party activity becomes
more noticcable, and nost of the najor parties are represented. Tho candidates
4

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
during the four months of this year were far greater than the number of po
tions to be filled.
In contrast with these facts the election interest among the voters was
manifested more sharply in the tom and village elections in which an average
of approximately 75% of the registered voters went to the polls on election
day as compared to the turn-outs of 50% to 60% of the voters in the prefectural
and city elections. In seven by-elections for the Tokye metropolitan assembly
the abstention rate averageu 70% and in a Kyoto prefectural assembly by-elee-
tion it averaged a little more than S0%. Much of the present discrepancy be-
tween the lighter votc in the cities as contrasted with the heavier vote in
towns and villages can be explained by the fact that elections occurred dur-
ing the slack season in acricultural areas; distance between the polling sta-
tions and places of work in the country are shorter, and working hour sched-
ules in the country are not as rigid as in cities.
In virtually all the clections, independent candidates predominated both
in total nuunber of candidates and nuaber of vinning candidates. Political
parties usually enjoyed a bott position in prcfcctural and municipal elec-
tions as contrasted with that in towms and villages. In this year's reported
local lections narly 0s of the succossful candidates were independents.
The National Election Management Commission's recent survey of the re-
sults of local clcctions indicatcs thct political parties polled 57.3% of the
pular votc. iost of this total is derived from city and prefectural elec-
tions and reprosents the voting for relatively fow cendidatos. The popular
vote for the clections  ported by the National Eloction Management Cormission
is slown b.lov:
Political Party
Popular Vote
% of Total
Domocratic-Liboral
1,018.711
33.8%
Democrat
189.932
6.3%
Socialist
150.048
5.2%
Communist
265.860
8.8%
Hinor Pertios
96.519
3.2%
Independent
1,290,242
42.7%
TOTAL
3,019,312
100.0%
As to the strength of shoving of perticulcr political parties, the Demo-
cratic-Liberal Party fared bost as it did in tho national clections. It clec-
ted approximately tvo-thirds of tho cendidates. The nuaber of clected inde-
pendonts vho. for muny reesons, might be consicered Democretic-Liberal Party
sympathizurs vould, if tobulated, swell the party's ranks tromendously. Hun-
ar ds, if forced to choose a perty labol, vould identify thems lves as Demo-
c tic-Liborals. The Porty's succuss at the polls reflects more its continued
op larit: with tho Japanese people than any particular adoptness at political
5

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.95)
atratocy. In fact, tc lack of tho Party's disciplino, showm et timom
Ciluted its strongth that worc it not for its overwhclming popularity 
vould hove fallon far short at tho polls of offoctivoly capitalizing on tho
rcsults.
In the soven Tokyo Vard assombly by-cloctions the political partics
overvhcl ud the independents in nuaber of candidates and winners. Groator
activity occurcd in Koto Ward vith four Donocratic-Liborals, ono Soc ialist-
Jonocrat, one Democrat and one Communist; in Shinegava Ward vith four Domo
cretic-Liberals, tvo Donocrats, ono Socialist, ono Liinor Perty and one Commu-
nist; and in Shinjuku Werd with threo Domocratic-Libcrals, ono Democrat, ono
Socialist, one Indepondont and one Cortunist. Althcugh a Domocratic-Liboral
von in cach of th thrce cesis just sivun, a similer split among thrce Domo-
cratic-Liberal candidates, cost thc party a victory to an Independent in
hrakave 7uid.
As long as the Democrctic-Liberal Perty reta ins its overwhelming popu-
larity it vill not be t o grcctly handicapped from lack of disciplino and
poor political strat y. If its fortunes begin to vane, tho Party will suf-
for cloction revers's to a proportionally far  rcater degree. Evidenco that
the Party's leaders are awere of ti.is wealness can be seen in the purge of
dissidont mombers w.ich is tal ine place in a nwiber of local chepters.
The Democretic Party's local branches domonstrated negligible activity.
vinning between 1% and 2% of the total nuaber of offices. The Party, which
ies in bad odor vith tho peoplo because of tho unsavory incidonts thet oc-
curred during the Ashida Cabinet, has suffer d e radical dccline in its politi-
cul policy and ectivity has beon further hamstrung by the bitter vrangling
going on in Tokyo betweon the Inukai faction, which favors a morgor with tho
Democratic-Liboral Party and the Ashida faction, which opposes cooperetion with
the present conservative cov rnaent. The Inukai faction is prosently ropre-
sonted in tho Yoshida Cebin.t.
4s a r sult, many Dunocrats joinea the Democratic-Liberal Party or formed
a cdmon front by runnin as Indopen onts. Currently the Democratic Party's
lcbdl is of no apparent asset, and many locel politicians affilieted formerly
vith the Democrats probebly find it nore profitable to run cs independents,
at least until such time as their opposition role in the Diet cains approve.
Cutsido of Tokyo tho Party's disunity also cost it vhat coula have boon a vic-
tory in the prefectural assombly clection held in Ulyo Ward, Lyoto in Fobru-
ary, vhen a total of 4,Goo votes cast for tho Democratic Party and split a-
nong' 3 of the Party's candidatcs, encbled the single Cormunist candidptc to
vin vith 3,400 votos.
The Socialist Party has been muddling along in sonc confusion resulting
Pro its disestrous cefeat in the 1949 genural clec ion. Communist raids on
the Party in addition o complute paralysis in its own activity bocause of
6

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.94)
tho idoological split botwoon loft and right wing groups, caused a comm
sidcrablo exodus from tho Party into tho camps of both the "liborala
other cons rvetives: Pho vacuous attit do of the Socialist Party during
the local clcctions in tho months of Januery, Fobruary and March rosultod
in its cundidates vinning but 23 officcs. In this it matchcd procisoly tho
rosult obtained by tho Domocrets. Lost of the Party's candidatos trailcd
othrs be.dly.
The Conunist Party has continued to dumonstrato its stren th. Tith
tolling offccts tho Perty has continucd its sound policy of "grags roots fi-
nancing"; Comunist cendidetos reccivo aid to "oporato" locally, which prac-
tice the other parties lheve looked upon vith some disdain. It also allows
its candidetus substantial lccvay for meoting loccl conditions. Analysis of
tho Co. saunist position sho's thet elthou h its candidetes von loss than 1s
of the total nuab r of offices, party-vis. it did much better by obtaining
n erly 2os of the totul officus von by ell political perty candidatos. Tho
Party's tactics vere concentit ted on winning at luest one scet in prefcc-
tural and city assombli's and pilin u an imacssive voto in clcctions for
prefectural end municipal chief exucutives as vell. Toum and villeco clee-
tions vere conerally "inored." The Party continued its stretegy of running
but one cendidcto in ccch clcction, exccpt for locel assembly clcctions vhen
a laace nunber of vacancies existtd and fev candidates ontered the rece.
The stretegy vas succussful in Iyoto and nearly so in Tolyo, in vhich tho ab-
stention rete vas excoodingly high.
Althouch the Communist position as a vhole has not changod approciebly
since the Loneral clcction, the Farty domonstr ted further Lains in Tokyo,
oto and Osake, as vell as in the Ianto region. Scattorod clections in
HeLano, hancgava, Yemanashi, Shizuoka end cspecially Saitare resultcd in the
Co mamist Party polling anyivherefrom 20% to 30% of the valid vote and as
high as 36.8% in the lection for ma: or of Ichikawadaimon Yachi. Yemenashi
Prefecture. Even thou h unsucc ssf: 1, man of the Comunist candidates in
these creas made good shovings, in direct contre st to those made by the
Socialists. Proximity to tho Party's ccntrel head uarters in Tokyo accounts
in a neasure for a Lood deal of the strength shown in the Fento region be-
caus represontetives fron Tokyo recdily sutrm into any nearby tereet arec
to help dir ct the Party's campaign. On th other hand, Conmunist streneth
in Chugole and Tohoku Regions Cucrut sed. Elseviere the Perty's position re-
imined substantially unchanged. Results of some of the more sighificent
loctione listed in Teb D are indicative of Party strongth in the  iven arees.
In olections for villege hecdaan in Torii-mura, Ano-gun, Shinane Pre-
fectur, village assenblpmen in Okercra-mue, Sosalhu-gun, Ioto Profccture,
and villuce assemblyesn in Yonozu-mue, Nishikanhare-gun, Niigate Prefee-
ture, four Conlunists von buccuse elections vent in uncontested fashion.
Hinor parties like the Nev Ferme's and the Social Ronovation, played
7

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.96)
an insignificant rolc in both local gonoral and by-olcctiona by putting chly
30 candidatos in th. ficld out of tho total of 2.947 and by winning only 9
of the officos. A numbur of theso vinners voro Labor-Farmor Party candidatos
and thoir perfornanco vas anything but spoctaculer. Tho Pooplo's Cooporabivo
Perty. e poor fifth in sho national gonoral cloction of 1949 by socuring but
14 noibers in tho House of Roprosontetivos did not sponsor any candidato
officially in eny of thoso local cloctions. This cction is to bo takon as a
dofinito vithdrawal by the perty from the politicel arena. In the goncral
clcctions of 1947 for local covurnment, this Party placed in 23 prefoctures
113 cendidetcs in officos. This 1947 shoving is in shenp contrest with this
first four nonths p.riod of 1949. .Ii anything. tho by-oloctions soom to ro-
voal a trund away from minor perties, wich ero reelly little moro than lo-
cal political cliques resuiiblin masks vhich prosent e respectablo front for
moro personal ambitions.
V. Analysis
Local genoral and by-cluctions occurring as thoy have during this past
querterly period sorve as a vocful baromster in calculating a trend of the
public's opinions betveon tho intervels of the netional ceneral cloctions
or the larcer nuaber of local ceneral oloctions takine place at one timo as
vill probably be the case in 1951. Thcse local clcctions cre the principal
moans whereby the Japanese people menifcst their reections to current social
and oconomic conditions. They arc also indicators of results of tho many
Occ petionel and Japanes  overnmentally sponsored policics or progrems do-
signed to iprove Japanese political development.
Considared individually, cither the locel gcnerel or by-elcction can
and often dois indicate chan os in the rolative. strongt: of political partios
or factions in & particuler locality.
Uncontosted Elections
The treditional occurrence of uncontusted olections in the tovns and
villagus end occasionally in som of the srallor citics in Japan is bascd
u on a numbor of rsasons and th grovth of practices and customs now "en-
tronchod in the soil."
In thuse small locelities in vhich the familios for many decades have
sold coods from nearby shops, vorled cne harvested nei hboring paddy fiolds
or fished tho same coastal areas, personalities vith Japanese qualities of
leadorship hevo looned large, been clected and remx ined the officials years
in and out.
Political croup action, not political perty action, hes resulted.
Liorcover, in more carefully vorlted out dotail in Japan porhaps than in
ost other countries, dufinitoly planncd politicel mectings prior to clec-
8

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.96)
tions are hold by the leaders of tho citizonry in which politicel ection
regarding perticular persons is dotormined The sole canuidate or cendi
drtes are sulected for the perticuler orfice in advance. Selection is fre-
. ly ide for represontation by buralku or a paddy field areà end a for
Forly ir ortent administrative subdivision of the towms and villagos Lo-
celisn i. strong at the baraku levol. This fect yiclds a uniformity of
voto for cll cendidates as thc hous holders of cech buralu usually voto for
their om citizens. Whon variations do cccur, thoy generelly refloct dif-
foronces in populetion among the bereku vith due allowances made for indi-
vidual populcrity. The "clection" is c result of vell determined agrce-
ments; sol ctions end cl iminetions ere simyly. but fimmly made.
Other xplcnatory reasons for t is Japanese custom today are presont.
after all there heve been few politicel plums to be had in the tovms and
villeges cnd this is tho fact in present da: Japen. het plums there are
must at timos be pesse. around; some rotation of offices take placc.. Sala-
ries are too low to bo a strong incentive for mon of outstanding ability.
The vecl financiel position of most locel ontities has never permittod large
scale petronage; less so todey. The incrcesingly heavy burdon of taxes in
the lcte years has caused largor nuabers of the toin and villego citizens
to festen a more critical cyc on thoir public officicls makine the conduct
of locel affcirs more difficult and meking conditions decidcdly more risky
to line one's pockots es in the past. Finding the money today to build now
schools or nacgin tho people for contributions to pay some police costs is
not an ocsy tesk, to say nothing of constantly bogging profectural end na-
tionol coveriment officiels for subsidies to ieko onds moet. Local officials
nuvc any onorous duties. In any cas, interest in runnin. for public offico
in sinllur conmunities is not to bo thou ht of in the seme light es for city.
 f ctural or national eloctions. Terticulerly is this truo in tho oifice
of tovm and villa e assomblyman as the position is a part-time one, and the
scope for exercise of individual initiative is sharply limited by inadocuate
finance not to say tradition. The Law Concerning Local utonomy provides
the legal authority for a vido latitudo of action and rondorine of needed
cervices. Accomplishinent requires proper finencing.
Incividucl Candidates
It is axiomatic from the Ciscussion civen cbove that rien and women
in thoso rurel localities come foverd to the votin citi onry as p-rsoneli-
 us vather than cs members of a political party. Moroover, all-giance to
 olitical party even on tho pational stage has beon whinsicel in Japan.
Lonce, the voters domonstrated their custonrr penchent in the towm and vil-
l elootions; their party aflilictions developed in the city end prefoc-
tual lections, Moreover, in the touns and villeges, both the voters as
rell as the cendidetee thems lves seemed more preoccupied with the practical
dom-to-carth problons of tom end villeee administration--buildin. & nev
9

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
school, constructing a now drainage ditch, or paying the police--than with
politicel philosophy, Which to a groet meny, is incapablo of a perticular
realization because of the prossnt systoms of financial end political con-
trols which éro difficult to circunvent.
Accurat- evaluetion of by-claction results dopends lergely on knov-
ledge of tho "story behind tho nevs," particulerly in Japan in which the
chan in fortunes of political parties et the local level is often in di-
Fect ratio to the personal popularity and ov-r-shifting allogiance of a
handful of prominont politiciens. The ctominance of indopendont andi-
datos at the local le/ 1 makes it practicclly impossible to dotormino the
significance of loc jions vithout noving also tho political leanings of
the candidates and the (roups vhich support thom.
Communist Party's Ronort
The Communist Party in its on clection roport published on 17 April
in' Akahate. the official party organ, boasted that "The rato of Communist
votes in prefoctural, county and city clections increased by l.3% as com-
pared with the Goneral clection in January." Tho figure is e distortion
of the truth, having been arrived at by conparing different sets of figures
in the Nk tioncl Election Lanac ont Conmission's Ceneral Elcction Rerort
and y-Eluction Roport. Lased on the Com ission's figurcs, the Comunist
popular vote wes 9.  vhile the numbr of Diet sets ained ves 7.5% of the
total in the 1949 House of Roprosentatives clection. By conparine tho lat-
tur figure on percentace of seats eained in the goneral election with the
percentece of the populer vote in the three months puriod, 1 January--31
I arch, local cloctions of 8.3%, the Communist Party is ablo to point to a
l. ineret se. These percentages are compered improperly. Actually a com-
parison of the popular vote in both the Diot cloction and those in this
four montns poriod 1 January to 1 May, roveals a 1.2% in decrease. How-
over for the local oloctions all such percentage evaluations are unsatis-
fying and not too infomative. Any positive statement as to the trend of
the Cormunist Party's, or any other party'e strongth in local cloctions
in Japen must be tempured by two imponderable factors: (1) the politi-
cal charccter of the independent vote and (2) the knovludgo that strong
personalitics count for more than parties or party platforms at the local
1v31.
Socialist-Commmunist Ro tionship in Local El cctions
 During the past three und one half yeers there has been a concerted
drive by the Co mumists to monouver the Socialist Farty into mutual col-
laboretion, if not that, then to take as meny mumbers from the Socialist
Party as possible. The Communist Party's manouvers of hacking away at the
Socialist front has been both at the policy mekers and at individual mem-
bers. These adroit concerts cnd mass harangues have been effective.
10

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
Divisions hevo boon mede vith tho Socialist Party. A numbor of Sooiali
oxocutive officors havo cdvocatod colleboration or et loast compronime
tho Comunists. leny Socialist mombors havo bolted and loft tho Party.
Hovover, tho contral leaders of tho Party durin those many months of pre-
suro heve maintained the indopondonco of the Party. Thoy havo gono straight
aheed with thoir ovn progrems. Liost all mcmbers of the left wing of the
Party, although "radical" and divergont as to views and mothods from tho
momburs of tho right wing, regerding the achiovemont of tho Party's pro-
grams, are anti any united front vith tho Cormunists.
Since the three day Tolyo conference of the Socialist Party in mid
April in vhich Ex-Premier Tatayama was elected President, there has been
marked activity through-out the Party's organization. The branch offices
of the Party have been rejuvenated; a membership prograr: is being made ef-
fective already by a person to person contact, the Party's owm goals are
bein explained carefully and refutations on the spot are being made to the
Communist propagenda. Despite t :is favorable momentum, eny resurgence and
maintenance by the Socialists of fomner strencth or a better position in
future elections, vill be dependent upon en ideological policy agreement
vithin the Party's thole organization or a separation of the two factions.
At any rate a continuous vigorous leacership is needed to overcome the
lethary into vhich the Party's local orcanizations seemin ly have sunk.
Elections held in Gifu City on 25 February 1949 for prefectural end
municipal assemblymen cast an interesting sideliht on the present Social-
ist Comunist reletionship. The Cifu edition of the Osaka Asahi carried
the followine nevs article on 20 February:
"The Labor Front Unification Council, vhich brings together various
labor groups such as the ICIU and JFTU, and the Socialist and Conrmunist
Farties, has demandec that either the Socielist or the Cormmunist candidate
for the prefecturel assembly by-election drop out so thet the council can
support one joint candidate.
"The Gifu Prefectural Comittee of the Conmunist Party, on 18 February,
decided to vithdrav Conmunist candidate FUiUT. Tatsuro, 3. a nev-comer, and
tlurow the entire labor support behind Socialist candidate OGA Hajime, 46,
a nev-comer. As a result, favored candidates SHIEiTa and IASUDA will be
hard hit.
"On the other hand, indicetions are strong in the Gifu City Council
by-election that Socialist candidate SUGI OTO Takeo, 30, a new-comer. vill
be withdrawn in favor of Coaunist candidate TAKAHASHI Kazuyoshi, 40. new-
comer, and cive hin the total orgenized votes.
"The Comunist Prefectural Conmittee has already announced as its
official candidates Socialist OGllA for the prefectural assembly election
11

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
and Conmunist TAKAHASHI for the city council election, but the Socialist
Prefectural Federation has not yet shom any signs of withdrawing the
candidacy of Socialist SUGIlOro fron the city council election."
The results of the election for prefectural assemblyman, in which
the Democratic-Liberal candidates von, show that the Conmunist candidate
did in fect withdraw in favor of Socialist OGAWA. The combined support
of both parties gave the Socialist candidate enough votes to become the
runner-up.
Hoever, the Soc ialists refused to reciprocate in the election for
municipal assemblyme.. Both candidates SUCDMOTO and TAKLASHI ran. which
removed a major source of opposition to the vinner.
Pronouncements by local chepters of the Socialist Party disclaiming
"joint struggle" and teking a definite anti-Conmunist stand by explaining
the ineompatibility of Conmnunist with Socialist principles would do much
to veaken the Com unists. At present, sone of the local Socialist organi-
zations have been inclined to inore the injunction of the Party's central
head uarters against collaboration with the Cormunists. For instance, the
SHILNO MAINICII newspaper reports on 4 April that the Socialists have
acreed to cooperate with the Co :unists in future local by-elections in
Hegano. There have been similer newspaper reports in February with refer-
ence to Hokkaido.
Political Party Local Election Stratery
A more realistic appraisal of each party's chances in local elections
by party executives and heads plus tighter party ciscipline to prevent an
excessive nimber of candidates from running vould ensure ageinst dilution
of stren t. This condition has alloved the Comuunist Party and other
small organized minorities to steal the clection. A divided opposition
within both the Demoeratic-Liberal Party and the Democratic Party and low
election interest enabled the lone Cormunist candidate to vin the contest
for one seat in the iyoto Prefecttral Asse bly held in Ukyo-ard, Kyoto,
on 28 Februery. despite the fact that he received only 19% of the valid
vote cast and less than 7% of the registered vote.
n interesting insight into the vorkin s of local politics is afforded
in the 8 April editi n of the IAIlIC I SHI UN which discusses "the behind-
the scenes maneuverin " in preparation for the forthcoming Saitars euber-
natorial election.
"The Seitana Prefectural Asscc iation of Toun and Village Mayors held
a council of country chapter heas of the association at the Urava Cham-
ber of Commorce and Industry on 6 April to ciscuss the coming gubernator-
ial election.
12

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.96)
they should endorse a man who is not affiliated with any party but who oan
be su ported by representatives of political parties, public organizations
incustrial circles, mmicipel mayors, and all other groups.
"The seme afternoon, council representetives called on Prefectural
Assebly Cheirman NKilU at the Prefectural Assembly Secretariat and con-
veyed that elthough there are indications of some prefectural assemblymen
trying to run a candidate under their control to monopolize the governor-
ship by one party; the 3l4 tovm and villeve mayors of the prefecture are
opposed to tiis:
"at the same time te mayors decided to launch an active drive among
the various groups to solect an idcel independent candidate."
A by-election for Sunakave Towm, Sorachi-gun, Hokiaido, also gives an
interestin insi ht into various party election strategies, There were 29
candidates for 1! seatr, including 21 Independents, 4 Socialists, 2 Demo-
cratic-Liberals, and 2 Jormmunists. Ten of the vinners were Independents.
Of the party candidates, although the Socielists polled i2% of the vote com-
pered to 1ls and 7% for the Democretic-Liberals and Caminists, respectively.
they had so diluted their strength that they elected but'one candidate. The
Democre ic-Liberals, on the other hand, elected both of their candidates and
the Cormaunists one of thcirs. The second Cormnunist candidate ran well ahead
of the 3 Socialists vho failed.
VI. Corments from the Milittry Government Teams
Many teams have camented on whet they consider needless expense
caused by resignetions vhich vere required by lav to qualify for candi-
dacy in the 23 January Diet elections. The expenditures vhich are con-
pletely borne by the prefectures run anywhere from Y1,500 for a villege
election to ¥6.26,067 for a prelectural election as that in Miyagi for the
gubernetorial race.
In addition, coments on by-elecsion surveillance, platforms, and
analysis of results, vere submitted by teams to this headcuarters.
1. Guama Lilitary Government Team (Election for Prefectural Assembly-
man from Yamada-gun). "State ent of chance in political trend betveen pre-
vious election for position to be filled and the Diet eleccion and from the
Diet election to the by-election, and rour evaluation:
"1. The Democratic party candidates still remein strong and un-
changed.
“2。
The De. ratic-Liberals gained support from the Indejendents
in the  cent Diet election so they in turn supported the In-
depencents in this election.
13

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.96)
"3. Socialist Party strength remains unchenged. The Oomminist
Party support shous small cains in each election.
"4. The trond in this area remains conservative.
"Statoment of principal issues expounded by candidates and politi-
cal parties.
"Eiichiro Kondo, Domocrat
1. Rebabilitation
2. Prcnotion of social education
4.nction of taxes
5. Decocratization of education
"Noboru Sunaga, Independent
.1. Repair of flood dances
2. Nationelization of acricultural cnterprises
"Yukio Ishihara, Conmunist
1. Rehabilitation
2. Expose of tax uvaders
3. Elimination of transaction taxes
"Ototaka Shinazalki, Socialist
1. Prmotion of education
2. Revision of local tax systom
3. ettlement of mine pollution problom."
2. Tolvo Military Goveriment Tcan (Soven By-Elcctions for Members
of Tokyo Metropolitan Assenbly). "Tolyo ilitary Goverment Tean had ten
strveillonce toans in the field on 2 and 3 Harch. All teams reported the
polling places vere ordorly, the votins end counting were conducted in a
very efficient manner. No mejor violation of clcc ion laws occurred."
Lane eva Militery Covernment Team (Election for Layor of Odawara
City). "The Odava a City avea is a traditionelly conserve tive arca. This
is Gue to the levme fishing copanies located in the city and an unusuelly
lar s concentration ? well to do and wealthy peopie who maintain homes.
Durin th clection, pmior to th. one yhich is ruported on for the mayor of
the city, the Democresic-Liberal Party polled 1e.6o8 votes and the Poople's
Co rerative Party polled 7,ol2 votes. It is interestine to note that the
14

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
lattor party seoms to have lost its influonce entiroly in this arda since
that tie. This is indicative of tho situation of that perty throughout
thc ontire prefecture. It is assumed thet supportors of tho party have
boen absorbed within tho body of the Cornunist and Socialist Parties.
"Prior to the last clcction of the members of the lower house of
the Diot, Lir. Sato, the former mayor of Odavara, resignod to becomo a candi-
deto of the Democratic-Liberal Party in tho Diet race. Upon his dofeat. he
refused to again become a candidete for tlhe mayor's office. Mr. Suzuki,
thc successful cancidate, ran for eloction es en Indopendent. However, ho
vas stronely supported by all conservativo perties of the arca and the
Socialist Party. This is believed to have beon causcd by popular desiro to
provent the clection of a Commist mayor to the post. During tho Diot raoe,
Nakanishi, the Cormumist candidate reccived 2,469 votes in this area. While
this conperatively poor sloving could not have cndangored tho candidates of
tho consorvative partics in the meyaralty clcction, it ves folt that a united
front was necessary against the Cormunists in viow of tho determined efforts
being mado by the Comaunists to carry the cloction. This vas the first im-
portant clcction in t is arca since the surprising largo Commnist turnout
on a national scal in the Jict oluctions. Thercfore, the Conmunist Party
concentratod hoavily on a show of strength in this arca. They conducted'a
strenuous caipaien prior to the cloction. This included spceches made by
netional Cor munist luaders Tokuda and other famous Cormaunists. It is re-
crted that this speech alone was vort 2, ooo votes. Indicative of the in-
torost incited by femous Corrunist speakers is the report that many votors
fro other prefectures vere presont to see Tokuda. The Commnist Party was
meble to win the clection because of the coalition of the other partics.
Hovever, thoy  ere suecessful in po1ling 6 500 votes, an increaso of 4.031
votes within less than a thirty dey period betweon this cloction and the
Dict elcctions. This Conmmumist vote reprusonts obout 16s of the total
lctoratc.
"Although th Conmunist Party was able to stampede local politi-
cians into a coalitio. a ainst that Party, comparativuly littlo notice or
action vas taken b other national partios at an important local clection.
This is an important defect in tho oprttions of all of the netional partics
xcept the Communist Party. It is a defeet which if not remedied will have
serious consequonces in the politics of Ja an during tho coming years.
"The platfom of the c n lidat, susuki, vas vague and negative.
His vas a "gontlomunly" carpe ign involvina nothing of any political portent.
He is not a strone political fi ur.. He vas clected on the basis of his
personel reputation, poveraul frionds, and strong political support.
"The Co mmunist can lidate, Uclhino, followed the usual party line.
An inturesting innovation was the inclusion of the taxes paid by prominent
15

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
citizens of the area in the party platform. This is part of the protest
progrem against taxes. This same technique has been used several times
prior to this by the Comunist Party in its publicity."
: In the Odawara campaign the Perty's platform was greetly detailed.
Attention can well be paid to the types of issues pushed forward. ost of
them can be whipped into highly enotional and controversial argumants. The
42  planks" of the general and detailed policies are given in Tab D. This
series of items is similar to others developed in other areas throughout
Japan.
4. The Miyagi Military Government Team In the local general elec-
tion for the office of governor which ShalI Kasuji won. expenses totaled
¥6.263.067 and 494. cut of 792,339 registered voters cast their ballots.
The Team's commenter.: were:
"The change in the political trend betveen previous governor's
election in April 1947 and Diet election of 23 January 1949 showed parties
to be weak, with Independents polling most of the votes. At the Diet elec-
tion, hovever, the Democratic-Liberel Party had come to the front and took
the majority of the Diet seats.
"For the political trend from the Diet election to the by-election
very little chenge was noted as the Democratic-Liberal Party elected its
candidate. One independent candidate mado an excellent showing, hovever,
indicating all the political power is not vested in the Democratic-Liberal
Party.
"The present prefectural assembly was elected at the time when no
party was particularly strong, and is therefore controlled to a large extent
by Independents. Since the recently elected Governor is of the Democratic-
Liberal Party. it is forseen that cooperation between the Governor and the
Assenbly will not be at its bust. It is possible that a vote of non-confi-
dence weald obtain if such a vote wore called for. In such a case, it is
believed the final result would be resignation by the governor.
Principal issues expounded by candidates:
Kiyoshi TAKAH SHI - Restoration of damages caused by war and
floods. improvement of financial conditions, improvement of culture, in-
crease in production, counter moasuros for unemployment and labor problems.
Kanroku Sato - Revision of illegal taxation and cloaning up of
the Profoctural Gove iLnent.
Kazuji SASAKI - Restoration of damages caused by natural disasters.
maintonance of local financial policy, restoration of industry, utilitarian-
ism.
16

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.93)
Takayuki ITYATo - Revision of taxation and the cstablishmont of
e vholesome financial structure.
Chiyoji YoSHII - Strongthoning of industry in rural communities
and countor icasures for floods.
5. Hoklaido Military Government District The report covered six
seperate cloctions; costs for cach locclity, politicel trond by partics
and a recomendation are given.
"The cost of b -clections to local ontity vere as follows:
a.
Hokkaido Prefectural Geverament
¥1.393.150
bo
Sapporo Sty
756.1.00
C.
Asahicala City
410.180
a.
Muroran City
392,720
3.
Shiribeshi sub-Irefectur
2.011.444
f.
Iburi sub-Prefucture
1.112.631
TOTAL
¥6.076,575
"The political trend b: parties showed that (a) for the Communist
Party there vas no deviation from the Party's Dict campaign issue. Stress
vas laid on the seomin laxity of collcction by officials of all taxes on
blacknarkcteurs and bic business. This is a typical Conmunistic tactic.
The Party made a cein of 3.3% in Sapparo; the Party's number of votes ob-
tuined and its purcuntage of the total vote cast in the Diet and by-clec-
Sions vere respectively 5.115 or 6.9 end 5.186 or 9.65. The percentago
gain indicates a trend which is tompered by tho individual camdidate's lo-
cal populerity.
"b. The Democratic-Liberel Party's candidates stressed the per-
fection ef better cov rmmental adninistration and en empansion of industry.
Thin teon Goos not ceviste fron the biet cummpaign issues. The Party re-
tained its ponuleriy as three out of suven canuidates were clected.
"c. The Democrat Party's candidates stressed iiprovement of busi-
noss, schools and covurmuntal act.inistration. Three out of tihree candi-
dut s vere successful.
"d. The Social Domoeret Party's candidates stressed perfection of
the locel recle ntien end repatrietion prograns, but all opposed the govern-
ment vorkers lay-off c  taxes imposed on the masses. The popularity of the
Secial Jemocruts has fallon consiaerably. In 1 47 this Party vas the major-
ity party in the Assembly; now it ranks third. It is belioved that tho ma-
jobity of Hokkaido's people want a stabilized covornment and do not vant
radicals in their Asss bly. None of the Soc ialists were voted into office.
17

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.97)
"o. Tho Now Farmers Party's candidatos strossod farming, fish-
ing and small business cooperativos. As thcir campaign speeches wero
along socialist lincs nonc of thoir candidatos woro olcoted. This Party
is tho majority party in tho Hokkaido Assombly by having twonty ono seats.
"Thero were no criminel incidents or sorious violetions of clec-
tion lavs roported.
"It is recormonded that paragraphs 5. 6. and 3, Article 67. Laws
Relating to House of . prosontat ivos Gonoral Election. January 1949. be de-
leted. Thosc paragraphs make it mandatory that public officials of State
and local public bodies rosign tlhcir positions prior to filing for candi-
dacy. Tho monetary loss computed in ran hours lost by voters and cloc-
tion exponses is an additional burden on Japan's oconomy. If candidates
were allowod to run for Dict soats without rosigning thoir positions and
woro made to rosign upon being clocted, the prohibition of holding two
offices concurrently would be fulfilled. If the paragraphs mentioned above
had boen deloted from the current lav, one by-olcction would havo been
neccssary in Hokkaido instcad of six, thus saving tho Nation some millions
of yen."
6. Aomori Military Governnent Team In an clection for the mayor of
a town, 82.5% of the 5.745 registored voters cast ballots. Morcover only
71 or l.29% of the ballots cast woro declared invalid.
"Inasmuch as this was an clection for headman the campaign was re-
stricted to the aroa of Goshogavara-machi. Noticos of the clection, per-
sonal history statements and platforms of the tvo candidates were posted on
bullutin boands throughout the town by the Eloction Committec. Specch
meotings under the auspicios of the Election Committo: were held throughout
the towm. Nowspaper announcements concerning the clection were made along
vith information concerning tho candidates.
"Tho statomonts or principal issues expoundod by the two candi-
dates aro summarized as follows:
YAM.UCHI - Porfect accomplishment of the prosont projects now
under construction and planning in the towm. Improvement of the education
and culture faciliti.s of the town to meke it tho center of thoso activi-
ties for Kita nd Nishi guns.
TAKaHASHI - Stabilization of the financial condition of the towm.
Improvement of instruction of genoral public concerning solf-governing ideas.
Gr ater cooperetion on part of all organizations and institutions in the tovm
for the general velfare of Goshogavara-machi.
18

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
"At tho eloction for hcadman hold on April 5, 1947 YA
Kyuzaburo ran last in a field of thrce candidates for tho samo post. Thi
vas lhis second try far tho post.
VII. Conclusion
Local general and by-elcctions in addition to roflooting tho politi
cal tomper of the pooplo often indicetos: (1) the oxistonco and nature of
political, social, cconomic, and idcological probloms affocting the objec-
tives of the Oceupation, (2) the magnitude of the issucs as revoaled by the
trend of succcssive clection, (3) tho grounds for a proper courso of action
which military governm nt teams can pursuo locally, and (4) tho spccific
areas in which greatest attontion should bo focused.
Through careful analysis military government units can dctormino the
extent to which Occuyetion policics and thoir on activities are diroctly
or indirectly mado issues in the campaigns. By watching tho fortunos of
parties and organizutions hich on the one hand ondorse thom. and by obsorv-
ing tho fate of those which are highly critical of them on the other hand,
military covernment should be ablo to determino which areas or which pro-
grems should rec ive increcsed attention. Campaign criticism of unpopular
policies and programs should be studicd with a view through inercased dis-
sominetion of information, to clcar up popular misconcoptions and overcome
outmoded traditions or projudices; or lse it may be considored altogether
appropri to to urge revision or abandonmont in vhole or in part. For it
should be readily apparent that only thoso programs and policios which
stand a chence of gaining popular acceptance will tako root pormanontly;
all othurs, besides avakin antipathy tovards their would-be bonofactors.
vill be scuttled unccromoniously at the first opportunity. Military govern-
imont's comonts and ovaluations form tho backbono of all clcction reports,
without which bare statistics are often devoid of real meaning•
Asido from draving pertinent conclusions as to the significence of
local lcctions in t: ir arca of rosponsibility, vhich is porhaps the most
important reason for their surveillanee, military governnont can also do
much to cducate the Japanose in the ussent ials of intelligent politics. By
oncouraging tho Japanoso votors to fonm political partios to tako a moro
active stand in adhering to concrote issucs as vell as to compete actively
in every olection, and by oducating the people in tho methods of success-
ful eloction techniques, military govermnent teams are aiding the citizenry
to secure the desired maximum offective oxpression of the peoplo's will and
the assurance of the defeat of hichly organized pressure groups. This task
becomes a progrossivoly more important part of the mission of military gov-
ornment in the Occupation.
19

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
VIII. Rocommendations
1. It is ricommended that the systom of plural voting bo adoptod
in placo of tho highly rostrictive (singlo voting) systom now used. In
Japan today, the political situation far outmodos tho ono in which the
systom was ostablished. The systom was adopted to ensuro minority repre-
sontation which one-half century ago in Japan was to como from particular
rural arcas. Tho conditions of thoso years, not to say tho intervening
oncs, are far removed from those of today. Tho conduct of tho prossure
groups today vith their socially insidious tactics completcly nogates tho
offects desired by tho carly law makers.
2. Furtier, i: is reconmended that provisions of tho clcction laws.
bo changed in vhich incumbents of olcctive positions aro roquired to re-
sign prior to running for another officc. Needlcss cxpenditures now sad-
dled upon tho local public body concornod vould bo eliminated.
20

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.97)
HEADQUARTERS
OSAYA MILITARY GOVERNMENT TEAM
APO 25
JSG/ak
3 May 1949
SUBJECT: Sumary of Eloction (Roports Control Symbol IT-22)
TO
 Conmanding General
Eighth Army
APO 343
1. Type of election - Election for Prefectural Assemblyman
2. Date of election - 23 April 1949
3. Location of election - Kitakavachi-gun, Osaka Prefecture
4. These data pertain to the area covered by this election for
the folloving elections: (a) the last previous election held for the
position to be filled by this election. (b) the National Election held
23 January 1949. (c) the present election
a. Nunber of elegible voters:
Last Previous
Election
Present
(23 Feb. 49)
23 Jan. 49
Election
(1) Male
30.865
31,070
30,331
(2) Female
34.895
35.150
34.154
(3) Total
65.760
66,220
64,555
b. Number of actual voters and porcentage to eligible voters:
Last Previous
Election
Present
(23 Feb. 45)
23 Jan. 49
Election
(1) Male
22.339
72.5%
25.433
31.5%
21,087
69:4%
(2) Female
24.291
69.5%
24.341
69.2%
23.323
68.3%
(3) Total
46.630
70.9
49,774
75.1%
44.410
68.8%
C.
Nuaber of invalid ballots and percentage to total votes
cast:
TAB A

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
Ltr, Hq OMGT, APO 25, subj: Summary of Election, dtd 3 May 49. cont a
Last Previous
Election
Present
(23 Fe0. 9)
23 Jan. li9
Election
Total
594
1.2%
972 109%
707 1.9%
d. Total number of votes obtained by each political party
and all independents:
Last Previous
Election
Present
Party
(23 F€b, 49)
23 Jan. 49
Election
(1) Democratic-Liberal
21.215
26.013
(2)
Democratic
10,224
3,011
(3)
Social Dempcrat
8.808
13.602
(4)
People's Cooperative
(5)
Comunists
11,515
7.578
11.159
(6)
Social Renovation
(7)
Labour F&rmer
2,548
989
(8)
New Liberal
(9)
Japan Farmer
(10)
Other Parties:
Proletarian Union
("Musan Domei")
307
(11)
Independent
534
2.095
18.942
Total
46,036
48,801
43,703
5. Number of surveillance teams and other personnel other than
military covernment personnel.
29 in total
6. Vere the candidates' purge questionnaires available at the.
Election Administration Conmittee's Offices and at the Screening Com-
mittee's Offices?
Yes
7. Candidates. If any change from or additional information·to
Filing of Candidacies (Heports Control Symbol MG-20). place under re-
marks. Place asterisk before elected candidate.
Political
Total Votes
Period of Time
Name
Party
Obtained
for which Elected
Remarks
YASUDA
Indepent ont
18,255
2 year term
Riichi
NISHII,
Socialist-
13.602
Yoshitaro
Demoerat
2

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.97)
Ltr. Hq OMGT, APO 25, subj: Summary of Election, dtd 3 May 49. cont'd
Political
Totel Votes
Period of Time
Hane
Party
Obtained
for which Elected
Remarks
INOUE
Cormunist
11,159
Yaichiro
HATANJA,
Independont
687
Kosuko
8. Number of violations reported or observed:
No violations reported or observed to date.
9. Extent of local publicity given to the election and campaign.
a. Seven thousend (7,ooo) posters were put up at various places
in towms and villaces.
b. Seventeen banners shoving the date of the election were dis-
played in front of tom, village and District Offices.
o. Thirty-five thouscnd (35,00o) public reports on career of all
candidates vere distributed to each household. Careers of candidates were
also broadcasted.
d. In order to decrease the abstention rate 5,ooo posters were
osted in toms end villages, and for 3 days prior to the election, chief
of the district office and 3 other officials engaged thenselves in e pub-
lic infomation progran on the street, through the use of a broadcasting
car.
e. Sixty-thousand (60,o00) handbills vere distributed to news-
paper readors on 15 and 22 April 1949.
f. Sity-seven thousend (67,Coo) entrance tickets were sent to
uligible voters.
C• Notices stating candidates' names and cercers were posted in
each voting district and polling-booth.
h. iouse to house visits vere conducted by Prinary and Junior
High School boys to encourage voting.
10. Remarlts:
a. Full details of any criticisn expressed in regard to the
Occupation Forces or policies of the United States.
3

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.96)
Ltr. Hq OMGT, AP0 25. subi:. Summary of Election, dtd 3 May 49, cont'd
No criticiam expressod
b. Any significant political strategy or trend
Tetsu Katayane, leader of the Socielist-Democrat party and
Vataru Narahashi and Tetsuo Ivaki, influential members of the Democratic
party came dorm to the electoral district from Tokyo and gave campaign
speeches on 22 March 19.
c. Statement of principal issues cxpounded by candidates and
political perties.
YACUDA, Independent
Principle issues presented by Yasuca werc protection of the
rights of farmers and small business; promotion of education witi emphasis
on rehabilitation of sc col buil ings, strong measure against unemployment;
stepping up of production through cooperation of labor and management; re-
sistance against unieir taxation.
NISHII, Socialist-Donocrat
Nishii did not present any main principle issues other than
What the Socialist party advocates.
INOUE. Carunist
Main principle issue of Inoue ves for the cooperation of farm-
ors to protect their rights to insuro the fulfillment of their demands and
resistancc a &inst unfair taxation.
HATANAKA, Independent.
The only prineiple issue that Hatanaka oxpounded ves the
clectrofication of electric train line betveen Shijonavate and Kizu. A
lecal problcn in Kitalaiaci-cun.
d. Details of serious violacion of election laws or SCAPIN, in-
cluding all violations directly effecting olected candidates or elective
public officials:
No viola ions reported to date.
e. Any unusual incidents or other matters:
Humber of votes cast for cormunist candidate decreased by
356 votes, or 3.25, as canpared with that of last previous clection.
FRAK KOWALSII JR.
Colonel, Infantry
Comanding
4

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
LOCAL ELECTION AND BY-ELECTION SUMMAFY
(Reportod By-Elections Held During the Poriod
1 January to 1 May 1949)
1.
ELECTIONS FOR GOVERNORS. MAYO'S, CHIEFS OF SPECIAL WARDS
a. Eloctione for Prefoctural Governor: 1
Candidatos
Winning Candidate
1 Denccratic-Liberal
1 Domocratic-Liberal
1 Commnist
3 Independents
b.
Elections for Mayors of Cities: 11
Candidatcs
Winning Candidates
6 Domocratic-Liberals
5 Domocratic-Liberals
2 Socialists
6 Independents
6 Camuni. ts
19 Independents
1 Minor Party
Elcctions for Mayors of Touns: 77
Candidates
Linning Candidatos
12 Democratic-Liberals
4 Domocratic-Liberals
1 Soc ialist
41 Indepengents
13 Co.mnists
2 Democrats
86 Indopendents
2 Democrats
No Election Contosts (30)
1 Socialist
29 Indopendents
d. Elections for Village leadman:
273
Candidates
Winning Candidates
22 Domocratic-Liberals
10 Denocratic-Liberals
3 Denocrats
2 Democrats
3 Socialists
2 Minor Party
8 Communists
89 Independents
3 Minor Party
196 Indopendents
TAB B

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
No Election Contosts (170)
1 Socialist
1 Minor Party
1 Communist
167 Independents
Elcction for Chicfs of Speoial Wards (Tokyo-to): 1
(Spocial break-dowi--figures not to be noted separately.
having boen included in par c, above).
Candidates
Winning Candidates
1 Democi: e-Liberal
1 Democratic-Liberal
1 Conmnist
3 Independents
2. LOCAL GENERAL AND BY-ELECTIONS
a.
Elcctions and By-Elections for Prefeotural Assemblies: 57
No. of Seats: 59
Candidates
Winning Candidates
71 Democratic-Liborals
28 Democratic-Liberals
24 Democrats
8 Denocrats
31 Socialists
1 Communist
48 Commnists
2 Minor Perty
83 Indc pendents
19 Independents
14 Minor Party
No Elcction Contest
1 Independent
b. Elections and By-Elcct ions for City Assemblius: 9
No. of Seats: 85
Candidates
Vinnina Candidates
16 Democravic-Liberals
11 Democratic-Liberals
6 Denocrats
1 Denocrat
3 Socialists
1 Socialist
11 Cormw. sts
2 Comunists
2 Minor Party
70 Independents
153 Independents
2

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
c.
Elections and By Elections for Towm Assemblios: 42
No. of Seats: 463
Candidates
Winning Candidates
20 Denocratic-Liberals
15 Denocratic-Liberals
5 Democrats
2 Democrats
17 Socialists
10 Socialists
27Conmunists
13 Communists
4 Minor Party
366 Independents
494 Independents
No Election Contests (7)
3 Domocratic-Liberals
3 Democrats
2 Socialists
2 Cormunists
47 Independents
a.
Elcctions and y-Elections for Village Assemblics: 158
No. of Seats: 1.085
Candidates
Winning Candidates
9 Democratic-Liberals
7 Domocratic-Liberals
5Democrats
3 Democrats
13 Socialists
7 Socialists
20 Comunists
10 Conmunists
3 Minor Party
2 Minor Party
760 Indopendents
601 Independents
No Election Contests (85)
4 Democratic-Liberals
2 Democrats
1 Socialist
2 Minor Party
5 Comunists
442 Independents
Elections for Special Ward Assumblies (Tokyo-to): 7
(Special br ak-dom--figures not to be noted soparately,
having been included in par a, above) No. of Seats: 7
Candidatus
Winning Candidatos
17 Denocratic-Liberals
6 Democratic-Liberals
4. Democrats
1 Indopxndent
7 Socialists
7 Communists
1 Minor Party
4 Indopendents
3

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.95)
Translation of the planks announced in the ODAWARA Sunday News
Dated Jan. 30,
SUBJECT: Comumnists' planks on Odawara Municipal Administration.
On Fob. 1. the Odawara local cammittee of the Communist Party announced
its planks on municipal administration along with the rocommendation of
Takcchiyo UCHINo as a candidate of meyor.
Planks on Odavara Lunicipal Administration.
Odavara Local Cornittoe,
the Japan Communist Party.
Genoral policy
1. From the municipal adninistration for the ruined life to that for the
stabilizcd one.
2.
Roduction of the commodity price through the proper taxation.
3.
Democratic reconstruction of the municipal finance corrupted by the
bureaucracy and bosses.
4.
Cloaning the collapso of the municipal affairs.
5.
From the tourist city to the productive one.
6.
Absolute cxposure of the tax evasions of tho bosses and villa-dvellors.
7:
Opposition to the fascistic rule of tho Governnont.
8. Demoeratic mayor ior the people or boss-liko mayor for the richos.
Potailed policy
1. Instant ccssation of the appropriation of a considerable amount of
expenditures for entertainmont.
2.
Stop appropriating for tourist's facilitios, but reconstruct the
medium and small conerce und industry.
3.
Save the useless uxpenses exploit ins people.
4.
Absolute investigation of the illegalities about bicycle raco course.
5.
Abolishment of all the compulsory donation.
6.
Reduce the exponses of the municipal police to half thet of todey and
establislunont of the popular police.
7.
Personnel cut of the reectional directors with ey in excessive number.
3:
Publication of the city-omed assets and thcir profit.
9.
Establishment of tho Municipal Administration Supervision Conmitteo
by the pdople.
10: Construction of the great Odavara including Kohzu.
1l. Construction of tran way betweon Odaveru and Kohzu.
12. Public managoment of tho municipal bus.
13. Public management of the fish market.
14. Public management of tho vegetablo market.
TAB C

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.97)
15: Building the city-operated rosidence.
16: Establishment of the municipal hospital.
17: Building the citizen club.
18. Sotting heavy progressive taxation on the Residential Tax. 90% of
which shall bo imposed by ostimation. Establishment by seloction
of the wholo Tax-payers Tax Assossment Committce and the samo com-
mittees in each quarter.
19.
Income Tax and Business Tax shall be decided based upon tho Resi-
dential Tax.
20:
Absolutc emancipation of land end purging the Farm-land Committee.
21:
Opposition to tho full delivery.
22.
Establisimont of tho Agricultural Bank to loan out cheap money.
23.
Strengthening the Agricultural Cooperative Association.
24.
Agrerian administration of tho forost co-owmod by cight villagos.
25.
Vusting tho fishery ground right to tho city and fishery right to
the fisher-men.
26
Full distribution of the linked goods.
27.
Proper price of rice to cover the productive cost. - Proper price
of fish.
28:
Establishment of tho Fishery Bank to loan out cheap money.
29.
Establisiment of the Democratic Commerce-Industry Association in-
stead of the corrupted Chamber of Cormerce and Industry.
30.
Establishment of tho spocial bank for the medium and smell enter-
priser to borrow tho choap money.
31.
Roduce the power tariff for tho medium and small cnterprisers to
that of the large scaled industry through the wholosale registra-
tion.
32.
Bricht window through high efficioncy attaincd by high pey for
the city omployoes.
33:
Cheap loan of tho livelihood expenditures.
34.
Expansion and strongthening of tho Lifo Cooperative Association
related to tho traders.
35.
Inmediato rohabilitation of tho flood-stricken arcas.
36.
Relcasing of big rusidences.
37:
Socuring the livolihood of tho people requiring protection.
38.
Full cquipmont of the school facilities.
39:
Propor practice of the 6-3-3 school year systen.
40:
Educational oxpenses shall be fully borno by tho National Treasury.
41.
Full arrangoment of the hygienic facilitics.
42.
Reconstruction and adjustmont of the road and drain-covers.
2

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.96)
% of Total
% of Total
Vote Reotd
Valid Vote
Communist P
Rec'd by
1949 H.R.E1
Elections
Election
Communist
(Prefeoture
For
Prefecture
District
Candidete
Whole)
Prefectural
Governor:
Miyagi
6%
5%
Prefectural
and Ward
Assemblies:
Hokkeido
Shiribeshi-shicho
5.0%
5.1%
n
Ebury-shicho
4.4%
5.1%
11
Liuroron-shi
5.5%
5.1%
1
Aschigewa-shi
9.5%
5.1%
Aomori
Kita Tsugeru-gun
4%
9%
Yamageta
Akumi-gun
5%
6%
Iwete
Shiwe-gun
6%
6%
Nagano
Hanishima-gun
11%
14%
Ibareki
Niiheri-gun
20%
8%
Snitama
Kite Katsushika-gun
25%
13%
1
Ossto-gun
20%
13%
1
Urawe City
15%
13%
Tokyo
inato Ward
23%
18%
11
rekewe Jerd
15%
18%
11
Ketsusniko Wer
24%
18%
19
Lits Werd
20%
18%
11
Koto ard
15%
18%
11
Neriwe Yard
25%
18%
11
Shinagawa Ward
17%
18%
tt
Shinjuku erd
20%
18%
Shizuoks
Haribere-gun
22%
8%
11
Shide-gun
9%
8%
Kanegowe
Chigaseki
22%
15%
Gumma
Ore-gun
6元
8%
11
Yomada-gun
6%
6%
Ishikowe
Suzu-gun
2%
11%
Kyoto
Ukyo  rrd
10%
13%
Osake
Kite Kewechi-gun
25
20%
Oknyame
Kurashiki City
11%
13%
Hiroshime
Numekume-gun
4%
10%
Shimane
Ouchi-gun
5
11%
ayor of
City:
Sriteme
Kewaguchi
29%
13%
Fanagewa
Odewora
25%
15
Yamanashi
Iofu
14%
10%
City
Assembly:
Sritema
Yoshiwera
3%
13%
Aichi
Nagoye
8
10%
TAB D

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
ation
ice Symbol A
United States Political Advi
s1corhee
for Japan
CID
lile
tion to DC/R
Tokygune 83, 1949.
JUL 15
No. 407
GDIVISOF
ACTION
CONFIDENTIAL
T
(For Dopartment Use Only) ORTHEAST ASiAN AFFAiRS
JUL 2 0 1949
INFO
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OLI
EUR/X
Subject: Background of Riots at Tokyo Metropolitan
Assembly, May 30-31, 1949.
844006-449
of June 4, 1949, concerning riots at the Tokyo Metropoli-
tan Assembly on May 30 and 31, 1949, as a consequence of
894.00/6-2349
communist-inspired opposition to new municipal regulations
governing parades and demonstrations, the Chargé d'Affaires
1/
ad interim has the honor to transmit a memorandum pre-
pared by Foreign Service Officer Richard H. LAMB giving
significant background information on this incident.
The information in the enclosed memorandum is
based upon discussions with a competent official of
General Headquarters and is supported in some respects
by information obtained from a Japanese Government
employee who was ordered to attend the demonstrations.
At the time of the Korean riots in the Osaka-Kobe
district in April, l948, local police authorities, on
instructions from the Commanding General, I Corps,
issued an order forbidding demonstrations not previously
authorized by the police and specifying that participants
in such demonstrations would be subject to arrest. That
ordinance was later rescinded because of its apparent
violation of Article 2l of the Constitution. Steps to
rescind the ordinance were presumably initiated by the
Government Section of General Headquarters, which at
the same time prepared a "model" Public Safety Ordinance
which was sent to the Commanding General, I Corps, with
the suggestion that it be used as a basis for future
municipal ordinances. The model ordinance reportedly
outlined procedures to govern the conduct of only "moving"
meetings, that is, parades.
On April 4, 1949, the Commanding General, I Corps,
is reported to have issued instructions to ali military
governnent teams concerning a new "model" ordinance
to be
JJI 291949
CONFIDENTIAL
FILDD
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
prefectural authorities. The new model ordina
with both "moving" (parades) and "standing" (
demonstrations, and not only organizers of unaut
demonstrations of both categories, but all-partio
suggested by the Commanding General, I Corps, is far
more restriotive than that proposed by the Government
Section, and the extension of its restrictive provisions
to "standing" demonstrations in effect prohibits any
spontaneous public meeting where it is impossible to
obtain necessary police aui norization seventy-two hours
in advance. Even more restrictive, of course, is the
provision making participants as well as organizers
subject to arrest
It is not certain if communist leaders have been
aware of information regarding the Government Section's
proposed ordinance and that proposed by the Commanding
General, I Corps. It is also apparent that at the time
of the riotous demonstrations at the Tokyo Metropolitan
Assembly, the Communists were not aware of what attitude
the Assembly would take or what kind of draft ordinanoe
was likely to be proposed. From experience in other
cities, however, the Communists were convinced that a
rest ictive ordinance would come under disoussion, and
it was undoubtedly their intention, through the
7
demonstration, to compeli the Assembly to adopt the
least restrictive type of measure.
Enclosure:
Memorandum, "Background of
Riots at Tokyo Metropolitan
Assembly, May 30-31, 1949"
prepared by FSO Richard H.
Lamb.
Parchment Mat to Department.
350
CNSpinks:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM
Subject: Background of the Demonstrations at the Tokyo
Metropolitan Assembly, May 30-31, 1949.
It is believed that the following information, which
was obtained from a competent SCAP official who is also
a close personal friend, and which was supported in some
respects by a Japanese Government employee who was ordered
to attend the demonstrations, may be of interest in
connection with the Communist-inspireddemonstrations
which took place at the Tokyo Metropolitan Assembly on
May 30-31, 1949, in protest against the new Public Safety
Ordinance for Tokyo which the Assembly was believed to
be considering.
At the time of last year's Korean demonstrations
in Osaka and Kobe, an ordinance was enacted on instruotions
from the Commanding General, I Corps, forbidding demonstra-
tions not previously authorized by the police, and specifying
that persons who participated in such demonstrations would
be subject to arrest. This ordinance, which appeared to
be in direct violation of Article 2l of the Constitution
and which did not seem to be justified on grounds of
military necessity, was considered to be entirely too harsh
and was soon rescinded on instructions from SCAP, presumably
at the instance of Government Section. At that time a
"model" Public Safety Ordinance was drafted by Government
Section and sent to I Corps, with the suggestion that it
be used as a basis for any ordinances regarding public
meetings which might be necessary in the future. The
essential points of the "model" ordinance were as follows:
(1) permits for mass meetings would be requested at least
72 hours in advance, and if no reply were received until
24 hours before the meeting was scheduled to be held, it
could be assumed that permission had been granted; (2)
permission would be refused only if there were a "clear
and present danger" to public peace, and in the event of
refusal, the municipal or prefectural assembly would be
immediately notified of the reasons for the refusal;
(3) persons organizing or otherwise responsible for holding
unauthorized meetings would be subject to arrest; (4) the
ordinance would apply only to "moving" meetings (parades, eto.)
and not to "standing" meetings.
Apparently
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
CONDIDENTIAL
Apparently no further major dir
mass meetings were issued by I Corpasuntil
1949, when Major-General Coulter, succesmort
General Swing as Commanding General, I Corpet
a letter (restrioted) to all military government
in I Corps area regarding public safety ordinancos
letter contained a new "model" ordinanoe, which militar
government officers were instructed to suggest to prer
authorities who might be considering suoh legislation.
General Coulter's "model" ordinance appears to have
differed from that prepared by Government Section in at
least two important respects: (1) it applied to "standing
as well as "moving" demonstrations; (2) not only the
organizers of unauthorized demonstrations, but all the
participants therein, would be subject to arrest. General
Coulter's suggestions, it appears, have been generally
accepted (or seized upon) by prefectural authorities, and
already ordinances have been enacted in a number of pre-
fectures which embody the two principles indicated above.
It need not be pointed out that the ordinanoe as
suggested by General Coulter is infinitely more restriotive
than that proposed by Government Section, and puts much
greater power in the hands of the police. The distinotion
betweer "moving" and "standing" meetings is important.
"Moving" meetings will certainly obstruct traffic and are
likely to cause serious disturbances, and it is olearly
necessary that the police be informed in advance so that
plans and preparations can be made. The extension of these
provisions to "standing" meetings, however, in effect
prohibits all spontaneous public meetings, in whioh it
will often be impossible to obtain the necessary police
authorization seventy-two hours in advance. The provision
which makes participants as well as organizers subject
to arrest is even more restrictive: it means that anyone
who attends such a meeting, including the "man on the
street" who happens to walk by and decides to stop and.
listen, may be legally placed under arrest by the police.
Although curiously enough the Communists have not yet
raised the issue, these two provisions to a large extent
nullify the guarantee of freedom of assembly contained
in the Constitution.
With these facts in mind the motives of the Communists
in organizing the demonstrations at the Tokyo Metropolitan
Assembly may perhaps be better understood. There is not
the slightest doubt that these meetings were Communist-
organized: in at least one Government Kodan the union
leaders, who are acknowledged Communists, "ordered" all
but a necessary minimum of employees to leave work and
attend the meetings, without telling them what their
purpose was to be. Even after the demonstrations were
over
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
over many, if not most, of the demonstrators did 
know what they were opposing.
It 1s not certain how muoh of the above informat
regarding Government Section's ordinance and the I Corl
version is known to Communist leaders. In any event.
they could not have known what the attitude of the Asmombly
was to be, since at the time of the demonstrations the
Assembly had not yet begun to deliberate on the subjeot;
and, as will be apparent from what follows, they could
not have known what sort of draft ordinanee was likely
to be proposed to the Assembly. What they did know,
however, was that highly restrictive ordinanoes had
recently been enacted in some prefectures, and that the
Tokyo Assemblymen, with these examples before them and
with last year's riots in Kobe and Osaka in mind, were
about to consider a new ordinance for the Metropolis.
Although there may have been other motives behind the
demonstrations, it seems certain that the primary motive
of the Communists was to force or frighten the Assembly
into adopting the kind of ordinance which would place
the least restrictions on their organizing activities.
As indicated above, those who instigated the
demonstration could not have known anything of the
proposed draft which was to be submitted to the Assembly,
since at the time of the demonstrations there were but
two copies of the draft in existence, and its contents
were apparently known only to a few SCAP officials. The
organizers certainly did not know that the proposed draft
followed the more lenient "model" prepared last year
by Government Section, and not the more restrictive version
which had already been adopted in some prefectures under
I Corps jurisdiction.
It is not known whether the draft ordinance referred
to above (apparently prepared by a SCAP Section, although
my informant did not say so) will be submitted in its
present form to the Tokyo Assembly, or whether the recent
demonstrations will result in the adoption of different
legislation. It is known, however, that some SCAP
officials consider the ordinances based on General Coulter's
suggestions to be unjustified restrictions of the right
of free assembly, and that these officials will not only
oppose the adoption of a similar ordinance in Tokyo,
but take action to have the ordinance already enacted
in other prefectures modified.
Comment:
The above information is based on a single. conversa-
tion, and none of the facts have been independently
confirmed. I have not seen a copy of General Coulter's
letter
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
to the military government teams, and it is posmibl
the interpretation of his instruotions contained in th
memorandum may be open to question. I have the highest
confidence in my informant's judgment and ability,
however, and I agree with him that, if his interpretation
is sound, ordinances based on General Coulter's suggest
constitute an unjustified abridgement of the right of fr
assembly as guaranteed in the Japanese Constitution.
Richard  fomb
June 5, 1949
Richard H. Lamb
CONFIDENTIAL
(2313)

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.96)
ffice Memorandum
UNITED STATES
TO
3/P - Mr. Kennan
POLICYEL
STAFP
FROM : FE - Mr. Butterworth
e WB
JUL 119
SUJECT: Japan
7g.m.a.
Department of Sta
In accordance with our coriversation, there is tta
a file of papers on Jepan. Some are merely working drarta
while othars are file copies of finished memoranda. The
file is made up as follows:
1. A report by Mr. Bishop on impressions
gained during his trip to Japan last
894.00/6-3049
February.
2.
A memorandum of April 7 regarding condi-
tions in Japan.
3.
A draft memorandum of June 22 analyzing
NSC 49, "Current Strategic Evaluation of
U.S. Security Needs in Japan".
4.
A memorandum of June 22 to me from
Mr. Bishop contrasting the JCS position
1n NSC 49 with General MacArthur's views
as expressed to him in Japan.
"Political Situation in Japan" (June 20).
"Economic Situation in Japan" (June 20).
7.
General Nature of the Peace Settlement for
Japan" (June 8).
Seltrment
8.
"Alternative Procedures which might be
Followed with Respect to the Question of
a Japanese Peace Settlement" (June 8).
9.
"Advantages and Disadvantages of Indefi-
nitely Continued Occupe tion or Conclusion
of a Peace Settlement" (June 25).
If your time is short I particularly suggest that you
read items 3, 5, 6, and 9.
TOP. SÉCRET
FE:NA:RAFearey:db
7,
TOP SECRET
291494

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.97)
F2-Er. Butterworth
NA - Mr. Bishop
Iaitial Report or Impressions Sathered en my Mrier Viats
to Japan
It is my intention to prepare and to forward to yeu as
rapidly as possible mere detailed reperts aad summaries ef the
semversations whieh I had and the deouments wkieh I calleeted
while in Japan. Because of the importanse of timelimess,
however, I shall attempt to set forth im this memerandmm impertamt
impressions whieh I believe I should present to you imsessately.
Elaberation of the details and some of the deeuments sappertins
these impressions will follow in subsequent memoranda mew wmder
preparation.
During my brief stay in Japan I visited only the Tokye-
Yekehama area. I found many evidenees of material improvement.
There had sprung up during the almost two-year lapse sinee
I was last im Japan more fastories, more houses, and there
were in evidenee more busses, trains and streetears, and geseral
metivities on the part of the people. Mowever, it was still
obvious that transportation is woefully imadequate, that housing
is a desperate meed, and that industrial activity remains a
pygmy eompared to pre-war days. Although several Amerieans
told me that the Japanese people were happy, the impression
I gaimed from seeing their faces on the street was one of rather
quiet serlousness, if not sadness. Perhaps beeause of the
sontrast of soming from the United States the Japanese seemed
to be mere ahabby in dress than they were two years. ago. I was
assured by eome Ameriean observers that actually the Japanese
were notleeably better off than they had been.
I was gratified to find only a feeling, as best I ean
deseribe it, of tiredness of the cocupation, rather than of
bittermess. Hevertheless I could not avoid the 1mpression that
the Japanese peyehologieally were like a steel spring being
wound tighter and tighter to recoll the more violently when
released. Whereas at the beginning of the occupation the
Americams came is: not without welcome, as conquering heroes,
they now appreaeh being regarded as perhaps benevolent oppressors
with the benevolenee wearing rather thin.
It is nesessary that I should emphasize, before proceeding
further, that while this memorandum will desidedly be eritical
of the situation in Japan I would not want anyone to gain the'
impression
TOP SEGRET

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.97)
have eome te kaow and favorably regard erdimary Amerieans.
Prastically all important Japanese of bread edueatlemal
baekground with whem I talked veluntarily expressed what I ees-
sidered to be gemmine gratefulness fer the esememie assistanes
whieh the Uaited States has given Japan and for the real attempt
at benevolenes on the part of the oseupatiem. Mevertheless
there was a strong undereurrent even ameng these thinking
Japanese of irritation at escupation interferense in the mimutia
of daily life. All Japanese showed a great eagermess te shake
loese the temtasles of both Ameriean and Japanese bureameraey
and to "get things going again".
I gathered from both Japanese Amerieans with whom I talked
that the resent elestion was a protest vete--pretest agaimst the
cscupation. Mr. Yoshida has beeome a symbol of Japam's ability
to stand up to the occupation. The Cemmuaists openly and
violently denounee "American imperialists" and the "imperialistie
sssupation". Almost sveryone seemed to sense that the presemt
moment is the erisis. Exeept for SCap offieials, the Amerieams
as well as the Japanese with whom I talked all on their own
1nitiative expressed the greatest apprehensien ever the develop-
mont of Commumist power and influenee in Japan. Japam will
either develop a desire for revenge or a sense of independemee
and willingness to cooperate with the United States. Its's
eeenomy will either become stabilized, more prodmetive mzd
finally self-sufficient, or collapse into inflation, ehses
and revolution. There was an unmistakable feeling that the
mext few months will be of greatest importanee in developing
and direeting future trends.
In the light of these oiroumstanees I came away with the
distinet impression that it is necessary, as you yourself have
so aptly put it, for us rapidly to change the oharaeter of the
occupatlon in order that we may be always at least one or two
jumps ahead of developing Japanese psyehology. If we wait
until ohanges in the oharacter of the occupation are foreed
upon us by world developments or by the aotions of the Japanese
themselves we shall once again be placed in that uncomfortable
position
TOP SEORET

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.95)
一一
be effestive ia leadersmip.
roeted sease of complaseney end of permaseney en the pert of
American offieiels of the csenpatien. As ene Amerieam msse-
paper ebserver who has been in Japas almest frem the day as
surrender said to me: "these scempation peeple have get à
Amether Ameriean put it that whereaseeverrene in the eeeapatien
used te be filled with a sense of argeney and impermaneaey
in his pesitiom, "five-year plans" are mew being devised.
I gathered that the lewer eahelons and working levels, per-
from the troubled events of the outaide world. It besame
apparent to me that it will require the strongest and most
determined astion pessible on the part of highess effieials
in Washington to break up the entrenehed bureamerasy beth in
Tokye and in Washington whish has a vested interest in the
sontinuation of the present activities of the oseupatios.
Ome of the Army members of our party, for example, teld me that
there are over 70 offieiels in the Keonomie and Seiemtifie
Seet1on of SCAP alone who are in the 09,000-$10,000 C1v1l
Service grade. Another Amerioan representative of a large
oll eompany in Japan told me that in the last week er se he
hed over 20 applieations from SCAp officlals to obtaim permement
pesitions in Japen. We said meme of these offisials wamt to
Leave Japan and return to the United States. A elear indieation
of the lialson between the entrenehed bureaueraey in Washingten
and in Tokyo was given me by General Harquat (Chief, Eeonomie
and Selemtirie Seetion of SCAf, and an old friend of mine)
in reply to my jocular suggestion at dinner that he should
"eall orf his doge" and give the Japanese a shance to run their
own business under the new prinelples whieh he had laid down.
He replied that even the Department of State was as eager as
ever that SCAr retain olose control over all sotivities in
Japan. He added the State Department 1s still l00 per eent
benind FE0-230. When I expressed complete consternation and
repeatedly presned him for evidence of State Department support
of FEd-250 he finally said that he had not seen it in any
offieial dispatehes but that he had read it in letters from
State Department ofrioials to people on his own staff.
I had only a few convereatione with the "bums", as they
are called by occupetion personnel, or, me we know them,
Ameriean businessmen, but I believe it is important to record
1mmediately a remark which Nr. Dennis MeEvoy, President of
the Ameriean
TOP SEORET

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.96)
camse plased befere sdar.s Ne peinted eut that there was me
Amerieam offieial erganisation there whieh esuld effessively
present, from a biased point of view if you will, Ameriesm
deslderata. On the other hand the Britisk ease was being mest
effeetively ploaded by the British Ambassador and his staff.
I gathered from conversatioms with Gemeral MacArthur and
with General Whitehead (Commendang Gemeral of the Far Eastern
Air Poroes) that the Umited States does mot require military
occupation of Japan for its military sesurity in the Far East,
providing Japan is neutralized by statioming suffieient mir and
naval forees, partioularly air, in adjasent areas.
In summary I belleve that we are now defimitely at s
crossroads in the oeeupation of Japan; that it will require
immedlate, determined and foreeful astion by the highest authorities
in Washington to bring about a ehange in the eharaeter of the
occup tion: that we must immediately realixe the full implememte-
tion of s0 13/2; that we must regard Sc 13/2 solely as 
interim poliey to enable us to push on to, and to amebbplish
within the next 12 to 18 months, the sort of relationship with
Japan which will flow from a peace treaty, bilateral er malsi-
lateral, preferably the latter; that if we are umable to bring
about immediate and ebvious begianings of a ehange in the
charaeter of the ocoupation, the Department of state would be
well adviged to bring this impasse to the attentiom of the
President.
FE:NA:MwB1shop/pm
TOP SEORET

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.93)
ktieneia Japan
Zou mey reeall that la acknovledging reseipt ef the sta
the Japasese people fellew us, if the werkere remain at their
and if Japanese pelitidans and pelitieal parties
met heing realised. Instead of budklins dowm witk a will en
with shoek and resentment, and to be affording the stabillmatien
pregram peer suppert. At a time when the talk was all ef re-
soaditions, the pesple were suddenly direeted to put uuck
and privations. The fast that the stabilisatiom pregram was
by the Japanese themselves has of course greatly redueed possibilities
of the people's patting their backs into the pregram im a spirit
ef self-saerifiee, patriotism and promotion of the commom geed.
Laber, partioularly, has balked at the prospeet of whelesale
firing asd stabilised wages, and complains that the stabilisation
pregram is to be earried through mainly at its expense. Agitatimm
agaiast the Mational Publis Bervise Law and against Geverament
plans te amend basie labor legislation is intensive. Sensing
the pepalar oppesition to the stabilisation program and seeking
to eapitalise on the situation thus presested, the oppesition
politieal parties, particularly the Soclalists and Cemmunists,
are attaeking the program from all sidee.
within the
TOP SECRET

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
has been suesessful in diverting frem itself te the es
popular amsterity measures.
Public petitiens are being eireulated and in respense te é
enthssiasm as he dared.
While it is dirrieult to gange presisely the state of pegalar
and a sympathy rally of 10,000 epposing laber law revisiem and
mass diseharges due to industrial rationalisation was held im
severer industrial adjustments ealled for by the stabilisatiom
program evoke inereased antagonism and resistance, tax and feed
celleetion, control of publie demonstrations and strike-breaking
may preve beyend the power of the eivil authorities and require
large-seale employment of oceupation troops.
If this ccours the occupation will have turmed a fatal serner
and weuld quiekly deteriorate imto "Operation Quisksand".
Persed oate the defensive in their relations with the Japanese,
the scoupation authorities would find mo sseape save ignomimious
retreat. Relaxation of ocoupation controls would be interpreted
as consessions from weakness instead of from strength, and would
impair our pesition where they could previously, by keeping
ahead of the Japaness, have strengthened it. It is essential
that sush an eventuality be prevented or, if that preves impessible,
that we extrieate ourselves before we are caught in an untenable
pesition.
It is impertant to bear in mind that Japan's esonemy,
similar to that of Italy, is inherently deficient in the
resouroes
TOP BEORET

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
important objectives of the sceupaties.
breaking out militarily.
We have mede several impertant recommemdasions fer sssies
whish we belleve would go far toward keeping as peyekelegieally
ahead of the Japanese and toward the aseempliskmeat of eur
the purge. A draft telegram to Sebald on thie subjeet has, as
relaxatiem ef prehibitions on Japamese aetivity im the field of
fereiga relasiens. Our reparatioas paper is, as you kmow, befere
the Seeretary, and still has the Nsc and diplematic sonvereatiems
to hurdle before it is publiely annoumeed and therefore before
we ean eapitalise on it. The telegram which we drafted some twe
weoks age peinting out to General Naeärthur that the stabilisa-
tiem dtreetive is not in confliet with the requirement that he
withdraw as rapidly as possible to a supervisory fumetion, and
indeed that that sourse offers the only hope of suesess of the
stabilisation progran, remains in obseurity in the "fumetiomal
area" of E. In addition to mentioning these papere whioh have
already been prepared, I should like to set forth certain speeifis
proposals for your consideration. They are:
1. To implement with all possible speed the peliey
provisions of ksc 13/2, notably reduetion ef she psyebolo-
gieal impaet of the oscupation on the Japanese, modirieation
of the purge, and transfer of responsibility for their own
affairs to the Japanese. (We are proparing a draft telegram
from Stato-Army
TOP SEORET

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.95)
mend that the Secretary disouss this questien at an 
to she attention of the President.)
2. To announse our new reparations and level of
industry policies,
3. To dvise SCAP:
(a) to allow amendment of the more apopular festares
of the Hational Publie Service Law, and to permis re»
vision of the 48-hour week;
(b) to give personal attention to the delieate
preblem of relations between the Japanese Geveramemt
and the laber movement in Japan and to the diseredis-
ing of Gommmmlst influenee within the laber mevement;
(e) te bear in mind in his supervision ef the
implementation of the stabilisation direstive the
prereeuisites for its suecess to whieh he himself
pointed in aeknowledging ressipt of the directive:
specifieally to implement the stabilisation direstive
firmly and emergetieally but with suffieient allewamee
for the politieal consequenees of particnlar measures,
for example, mass diemissal of werkers, so that popeler
resistanse does not inorease to a point where the
program sannot sueceed;
(d) to submit to the United States Government
his views on a proposal to allow foreign govermments,
partieularly foreign consular and trade representa-
tives, limited direet access to the Japanese Government.
*. To announee that the United States will reseive
coneular and trade representatives from Japan for limited
astivities.
5. To urgo
TOP SECRET

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.93)
6. Te appeiat a mbassder a .. Peltti
1a Japam.
9. Te amaance that the Uited states still fave
eonelusion ef an early pease treaty fer Sapam.
Uaited States forees met mesessary fer Uaited States
or for the maintenanee of internal erder.
9. To prepare for the "takeever" by "mda" of relief me
rehabilitation respomsibilities in Japen.
We are preparing specifie resommendations fer all ef the
above points.
the apisit and iatent of msc 13/2. I de met believe that tmis
relmetanee arises initially with General Maearthur himself, bat
rather from the "entrenched bureauerasy" in both Washingten and
Tokye. Yeu will recall my remarks in this commeetion in my
memorandum under referenes.
If this program is to be pursued in full, it will require
an early statement by the Mational Military Establishmemt ef the
military forses and faoilities whioh United States sesurity
requires we have in Japan, beth now and after an early pease
treaty, in addition to those on nearby 1slands.
In sonelusion I would emphasise that in putting forth this
proposed program we are motivated by a desire to avoid being
caught in a situation which will compel the Umited States to
yield from weakmess rather than from strength.
FE:NA:HWB1ehop/pz
FE:NA:RAFearey
TOP SECRET

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.89)
se e, "Grrent strategie Évaluatien ef the U.s. Secmrity
Zoode ia Japee.
Atrategie Evaluatiea ef the V. S. Seearity Neods La Japes,"
ferwarãed by the Seeretary ef Defease.
This paper 1s of great hely to eur studies of the adapan
probless, at dees sestain seme ebeearisies. The Jes state
that Japan is of "high strategie impertanée to Walted States
seeurity latereste in she Far East" beesnse of the leeessem ef
and defeasive war". the Jos state met enly that is ls meeeseary
to deay Japan to the Ussr, but alee, Ln the event ef war, te
have available for use by the Waited Statee Japesese bases as
adjasent therete". The J0s alse eavisage that "Japan ean be
expeeted, with plmmaed imitial Uaited states assistasse, at
least to proteet herself and, previded legistie meedssities
sam be made avallable to her, to semtribate impertaatly to
military eperatioas agaimat the Sevlets in Asia." The JoS
sonelude that "from the military pelat of view, the ultimate
mimimum United Statee pesitien in the Far Sast vie-a-vis the
the Asian offehore islamd whain."
In short, the JCe belleve that the Japanese main 1elands
must mot only be denied to the Sevlets, but must be kept 'on
our slde" as a potestial ally in the event of war.
If war somes, with Japas as an ally, the Uaited States
comld presumably utilize any base facilities im Japan and make
maximus use of Japan's petentialities and resourees. If the
Jos evaluation is mesepted by the Uaited States Geverament, it
them becoses essential from a seourity standpoint that oar
polleies and meslons in the soming parled be much as to make
Jepan a petential ally of the Uaited States.
In reapenso
TOP SEOBST

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.90)
一一
rutuse eentinge
Base 1o the enly base speeifsed by the dds and, wabjeet to
shert of the sime whem other beses may be meeded for war or
threat of war with the wesk.
The Jos alee state thst, aeouning "shas events permis a
These paragraphs provide that the wès shall develop military
remain en a long-term basis in Umited states pessessien, thet
the Mavy shewld shape iss peliey teward Yokeenka (maval bess
mear Yokehema) in a way to favor sontimwed wse ef fesilisies
there on a sommereiel basls in the pest-treaty peried, bat
that the retention of a naval base at Yokesnks is mes presladed
providing United states pelisieal objeetives and she prevailing
imtermatiemal situasion at the time ef a pense treaty make
graphs are attaehed at Tab G.)
The J0s ssate umequiveeally, in ansver to sur speeifie
queetlen, thet "bases on Okinews or other lelsnds of the Ryakyas
along with other Umited States bsses in or near she Paeifie womld
set meet omr essentlal neede" without beses on she Jepanese meim
islande. The Jos add that if, however, bases on Japem are mot
obtained under e pemee settlement, retension of the Umited stases
base system in the western Preifio wouls still be of the utmest
strategle importenee and the strategie meed for friendly sontrel
of Fermosa would be inereased. It seemr lear shat the Jos
are referring to United itates moeds in the avent of war snd
therefore their position on the question of sdequesy of bases
at sweh time coimeldes with their requirement thet Jepen must
besome ane remain a otential ally.
The JCs, im addition to their speeifie commemts, put forward
mome general dissuasion to the effeet that the sitmetiom im Asia
"makes it vitsl thet, with er without a peaee treaty," Japan's
friondly
TOSEGEST

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.92)
- 5 -
pelisieal er other conssderatiems dlstate an early pease settle-
ment they wwat peint out what they sonsider to be vital "safe-
guards":
payeholegieal, aad pelitieal stability, and ef her demeerasy
and western erientation;"
Comment: It shomld be apparent that no one is able to sive
without qualifieation the sweeping assuranees whish the Jos
stipulate. No matter whether she oscupatien sentinwes, er ends
with a peass sestlement, she uneertainties of Japam's esencmie,
orientasien will contimue so require the most serious attentien.
and effort. The Jos apparently easume thst continwed, direet
United states control in Japan woulc guarantee that the Japamese
peeple would side with us in the event of a U.S, -usen sonfliet.
It san be strongly argued, on the other hand, that we are mere
likely to make Japan a friend and potential ally through a pease
sottlement shen through sontinucd beoupation.
"B. Japan's internal security foroen must be adequste
not only for maintenanee of order but for proteution agaimst
sabotage of vital instellations. This may involve stronger
internel seourity foroee than were shought to be essemtial
prier to the eurrent overruning of Shimm:"
Gomment! This seems elearly necessary and logleally flows frem
our present polley (wsc l3/8) ealling for strengthening of the
Japanese polise.
"e. Binee there can be no gua-antee in the presemt
world witustion of the sovereignty of s defemmelese Japan,
there should be plane, as previoualy recommended by the Joimt
Ghiefe of staff, for limited Japanese armed foroes for self-
defense to be effeetuated in war emargenoy, and, in any
case, wnless the generel nituation makes it slesrly unneees-
Gary, prior to the departure of pcoupation forees from Japam:"
Comment:
TOP BECRET

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.88)
--
aofease.
shat ceadisiens are suffislently setiafastery Se justisy
termisatien."
Commeat: This ssafeguards as ezpressed by the Jos soeas to reflees
à desire te aveld à écmmitmeat for withdrawing Waised States
fellowing è pease settlement. fhis matter requires further
dissmssion with the xs.
The besie seourity requiremeats of the Waited States, as
set forth by the Jos, would seem to pese the fellewing impertant
politieal probleme:
Mow te devolep and maintain friendskip between the Wmited
atates and Japan at a level assurlng that Japam will beesme and
remain a peteatial ally; and partieularly, whether this ebjestive
cas be better aehieved through a pease settloment or through
indofimsely esntimned osoupation.
The JGs regmirement that pothing in the pecce settlement
preslude "bilateral megosistions for base righte in the Japanese
maim ielande" would almost surely emeyge is the souree of multi-
leteral megetistions or disoussions, snd would bring serieas
diffieulty with the Unen and Commmmlst China and perhape with
other powers wmless the latter sould be persuaded by some mssept-
able seourisy fermuls regarding Japan to assept our pesitien.
we have these problems and aneillary roblems affeeting our
relatione with ether esuntries under urgens stedy. I plam to
make am effers se slarify throngh eral diseusslons some of the
obssurities of she Jüs paper. We expeet momentarily a reply
from seeretary Jehmsen to the Asting Beeretary's reyuest fer
full iafermation on the implememtatiom of Ns0 13/s. This will
be of mstorial assistanee to our studies.
FE:NA:MWB1ehop/pm
FE:N:;M
TOP SEGBET

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.81)
JaeC
sveatual reduetion te a minimum ef the defisis in the eeonony
of sosu Gan."
"6. Mazal Bassa. The United States Mavy sheould shape ita
pelley in the develepment of the Yokesaks base in smch a way
treaty peried of as many as pessible ef the fesilisies is new
This peliey does mot preelade the retention of a maval base
U.s. politieal ebjeotives."
TOSEOBET

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.93)
ORSOURITIES IN RSG 49 MNGNIRINS GLAREPEGATION
1. Exastly what arrangsments are required at Yekesnka
è Maval bese under full U.S. centrel or commereial arrengome
with the Japamese? (Para Ga)
2. In stipulating that a treaty sheuld met preelade
bilateral megetiatione ror base rights ia the Japanese main
islands, do the J0s antieipate that we mighs wisk te asguire
sueh rights (a) during more or less nermal esndisiems is peass-
time, (b) ir the intermational situation worsems materially bas
in advanee of the outhreak of war, or (e) only after war has
begun? In light of the reply to this questiem, wemld she
requiremeats of the Jos be met if a treaty lefs the deer epen
to the asquisition of bases oaly after war begen? (Para Ga)
II Self-Guupert and Uarrleon Status of V. B. Fara n Jamm
The dsting Seerotary's question on this point appears met
to have been fully wnderateed by the Jes, with the resuls that
the question will require further disoussiem. (Para Se)
III CS  Safegueris" Should aa Early Peaee Treatx ba Ganalmden
1. The sweeping assurances regarding Japan's seeenomie,
payshologleal, and politieal stability, and demeeratle and western
orientatlon" whieh they require as a presondition ef a pease
settlement are slearly beyond the power of anyome to give.
(Para 10s)
2. The JCs does not m ke olear whether the Japanese should
have "limited armed forees for self-defense" prior to the aetual
outbreak of war, or whether there should merely be "plane" fer
such forses in exietenee before the departure of the osoupation
foroes from Japan which would be implemented only with the
outbreak of war. (Para lod)
TOP SEORET

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.91)
FE - Mr. Datteruerth
Jeme,
MA - Mr. Bishop
èse 49, "Gurrent Strategie Evalmatien ef the U.S. Sseurity
Meeds in Japan.
There is attached a drart memorankum to the Secretary
in which there is attempted an analyais ef sd 49, "Sarreas
Strategle Evaluation of the W.S. Seeurity Needs in Japan".
It is apparent that there needs to be further elari-
fication of the vievs of the Jos and sonsiderable diseussien
of those views in the light of pelitieal and seenemie
fasters and of the best means to astain the basie objeasive
on whieh I assume we are in agreement with the Wme. There
1s attaebed a list of the prinolpal ebeeurities as we see
them. It may be that disoussion and exehange of views
coula be handled through the Matisnal Seourity Couneil
staff.
The attaehed memorandum has been scordinated with
Mr. Hamilten and Miss Baoon.
PE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
TOF BECRET

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.95)
FE - Mr. Butterwerth
Jane a,
NA - Mr. Bishep
In the meeting in your ofriee the other day on the
JOs strategie evaluation you raised the question whether
this had, in all likeliheed, been eleared er seerdimated
with General Naehrthur. Yeu will reeall that the J0s
posision does net exastly sonform with the position which
General MacArthar teek in his conversation with me.
General MasArthur said that it would be a great mistake
if we were to eonsider the rearming of the Japanese as
an ally; that undoubtedly the Japanese could be of great
assistanee to us in any future war; that after a war
should break out we might even, before the war were
over, have Japanese righting on our side; but that it
would be a grave error as well as an injustice, prier
to the outbreak of hostilitiee, to put Japan in any
position exeept th t of a militarily neutralized area.
You may want to consider whether it would be worth-
while to ask the JCS if their posit1on has been coordinated
with Generel HaeArthur.
FE:NA:MwDishop/pm
TOP SEORET

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
POLITICAL SITUATION IN JAPAN
A. Introdaetion
The decision to accept the Allied surrender conditions
without qualification was taken by the Emperor on his oum
responsibility (heretofore unheard of in modern Japanose
history) on August 14, 1945 following disagreement among
his ministers and advisers. At that time he is reported to
have announced to his dissident ministere that thereafter
Japan would be "entirely separeted from the meens to wage
war end would be without eny arme or armement and thet Japan
would in this way contribute to world peace as a country
enjoying peace not maintained by erme". The Emperor also
ruled th t the utimate form of government in the new Japan
must depend upon the freely expreesed will of the Japanose
peorle.
In keeping with the foregoing prinei les, upon surrender,
Japen wos completely demilitorized, the Gront Jepan Political
Association dissolved, the secret oolice sbolished, meny
politic-l le dera urged from public life, and universal
suf rege introduced in preperetion for the virst post-war
general elections in pril 1946.
Meenvhile ScAl hed recuired
that the Je nese undertake to fulfill the rotcdem roclama-
tion by liberalizing their constitution. The new constitution
was drafted by a representetive group of Jananese under close
Hesüct arters direction and anproved by SCAr on March 5, 1946.
It

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
SECREI
-2
It provided for the retention of the Diet with greatly
expanded legislative and budgetary powers and extended a
bill of rights to all Japanese. The Constitution renouneed
war "forever", prohibiting Japan's maintenance of any armed
forces. The Emperor's role was reduced to that of a con-
stitutional monarch.
The first elections, conduoted under oareful Allied
supervision, brought into power a conservative coalition
government headed by Mr. Yoshida. This Government proved
ineffectual. It falled to combat inflation and black
markets and encountered severe labor trouble. New elections
were oalled for in the spring of 194?, the first under the
new Constitution. Mr. Latayame (socialist) vecame premier
in lay 1947 and r. shiua (Lemocrat) succeeded him in
February 1948. Unfortunately both the Katayame and Ashida
"middle of the road" regimes were based on a shaky coslition
of civergent political foroes thet soon proved unworkable.
naniua's Sabinet collapsed in Cctober ls4 amidst a welter
of c nfusion, soandal enu corruption tht brought sharp
discredit to all coalition parties.
Following a short-lived caretaker government h aded by
Mr. Yoshida of the Demooratic-Liberal rarty, general elections
for the Lower House were held on January 23, 1949. Mr. Yoshida's
party obtained a clear mejority vote, 264 seats out of 466.
compared

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRE
-3
compared to only 152 seats 1n the previoue Diet. The
so-called mlddle-of-the-road parties muffered heavy losses,
partly by the gain of the Communists whose Diet representa-
tion rose from 4 to the present 35.
B. Fresent Situation
Mr. Yoshida's Democratic Liberal party does not
represent the ultra-reactionery 1deology th:t is often
attributed to it, but atands for the biand of "traditionalism"
or, more loosely, conservatlsm suited to Japanese thinking
and temperment. It consists of several feotions ranging
the political spectrum from those formerly essociated with
the pre-wer Seiyukei to the more libersl Shidehara ex-
Democr-ts. Mr. Yoshids parnered many votes on the basis
of his independent sttitude, his overt patriotism (referred
to as nationelism by ris onronents) and his determin tion
to resist pressure from enerel deauguerters. one of the
main reseons for his perty's victory was the fact it nd
refreined over the last two y ars from "coll borating" with
the occupetion suthority in its legisl tive progrem.
Generally depicted to the immedi te "left" of the
Democratio Libersl Perty is the Femocretic erty, consist-
ing of two dietinet groups--the Inukai fsction end the
Tom bechi fection. The former groun is strongly drewn to the
Demoeratio

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
一4
Democratic Liberals and may in time merge with that Party.
The Tomabechi faction is being drawn in the opposite diree-
tion toward the right-wing Socialists. The demise of the
Democrats (whose representation dropped from 120 to 69 in
the last election) msy be attributable ss muoh to its lack
of political ralaon d'etre as to its record of weekness and
corruption as a government party sinoe 1947. It 1s under
stood th t Generel Hendguarters has been at some pains over
the last two yeare to build up the Democratic Party es the
true, desired "rludle or the ro d" overnment pa ty.
The lociel .emocratic iarty 1s likenise plsgued with
f ctionelism. Ite su ort is largel, crived from the non-
Communist members or orgelizeu l cor, ne its platform refleote
the ususl Socialist line of thinhine. The oclaliste
suifered a sht rp reverse in the last el ction, uroprine from
the lergest to the thiru l rgest party with 48 seets in
the Liet. ksiue from its inelrectiveness ene leck or leader
shi , an important resson for the -arty's poor showing in the
recent eleetion we the feet thot, es  government porty.
it was more or less compelled by he couarters to support
the ational ublic ervice Law.
The restrictions which the
Hationel Public Service aw imposed on the rights of Government
workers
SECRET

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-5
workers brought sharp discredit to the Socialist Party s
an original sponsor of the legislation.
The Communists are now the fourth ranking party. ite
unexpeoted success at the Japanuary, 1949 elections has been
explained by the Farty's compact, disciplined organization,
the vigor of its candidates, the definitiveness of its plat-
form and the tireless energy of its workers. Developments
in China enhanoed the Party's prestige in no small way.
fresent Communist support 1s drawn msinly from organized
lebor but the Party 1s ourrently making an effective bid for
the support of the ETA (outosste) olass end of those dis-
satisfied with current conditions.
Lesser political parties in oruer of size are the
Peoples Cooperative, Farmer-Labor, -ocial Rerorm Now
Liberels, Fermers' Farty, etc.
A descrintion of the politioal scene in Japen would
not be comolete without mention of the mperor. it a time
of haruehir, confusion and turmoil, it is not sur rising
that the Jananese have cleeved to the Emperor, the last
link with the familisr structure of Japanese society. He
is an important, perhops essential, cohesive force in Japan.
The defest of Japen has not impaired his reputation in
Japanese eyes, although his putative divinity may now be
questioned by many.
C. Occupation Role in Politigal Soene
SERET
The

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-6
The ocoupation hes remained the super-government in
Japan, although ite methods of deeling with the Japanese
Government have passed through severel stages.
At first, the Chief of Staff's offioe offioially
coordinated end chennelled ell inetructions, direotives,
etc. between GHG and the Japanese Government. Sinoe GHQ
staff officers were unable to understend the teohnical
character of the many papers thet paseed through their
office and since s rious delsys resulted, the various
GHe section chiefs either vent directly to the Supreme
Commander for oral epnroval or they 1ssued informal instruo-
tions or suegestions to the n se authorities. This
flexible procedure speeded ur operetions but soon led to
a complete leck of cooreinetion within scit. The lack of
coordination in hescquarters confused the Japenese authori-
ties many of whom later compounded confusion by pleying one
scu seotion off gainst uhother when it guited their our-
oS.S.
Ceneral hitney then undertoot as Chief of the Sovern-
ment ection (and as General Macarthur'e pe eonal friend
and confidante) to provide the necess ry coordination by
requiring that the Japanese orficisls obtain rinsl ap roval
fron the Government Section on all matters affeoting government
and

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRFT
-7
and legisltion. This resulted in frequent visits of Japanese
offioials (or summary cells for them to appear) at the
Government Seotion and to a lesser extent at other seetions.
Officlals of the Legislative Division of the Government
Section continued to visit the Diet from time to time to
deal with the speakers and the Seoretariat on matters affeet-
ing the pasesge of bills in which Headquarters was particu-
larly interested.
Until Yoshida's recent return to power, the Japanese
have usually been compliant to Hegdquarters wishes end only
on ocoasion heve certain high Jspanese officlals had to
be rather firmly reminded of Heauquarters overriding authority.
Mr. Yoshius has changed all this. He and the mem' re of
his covernment have suopted a policy of refusing to cerry
out orders not to the liking of his Covernment without a
formal written instruetion from Headquarters. This relievee
Yoshida's rarty of the responsibility for unpo ular measures
and avoide iving the electorate the impre-sion that the
Government is "oollaboratin" with Hesdnuarters.
The attitude of the Yoshida Government has required
that Headouarters assume openly e grester degree of direct
control of Jepan's internal affairs--particularly in connection
with
GRET

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-8-
with the present nine-point stabilizatlon pregram--and
consequently is postponing the development of a truly
responsible government in Japan. It is also placing the
blame for resulting hardship and diffioulties more direotly
upon the occupation, notably upon the United States as
chief oocupying power.
D.
Foroes Opposing the U. 3. and the Occupation
(a) Communi ts. There is every reeson to belleve that
in Japen as in all countries the Communist Party is an
instrument of Soviet foreign policy. s suoh, the Japanese
Communist Farty 1s continually working egeinst the U.S.
ocoupetion and generally geinst U.. objeotives in Japan.
The Comaunlsts oppose foreien investment in Japan, tax end
cro collectiona; they stir ue trouble in the trade union
movement end, in general, seek to ex loit Japan's economio
plight and social and political unrest for their own
ulterlor objectives.  princiele Conmunist tactie is its
fight for the "reciel sovereirnty" of the Jopanese peo le.
"Racisl sovereignty" has un pbvjous  pperl to the patriotie
suscentibilltics of the Jepanes en it reprccents  thinly-
veiled protest et inst the ccct ation. As lone e the
occunation continues, this theme vill be en ef ective line
of propacends ettrck et U.s. eypense.
Since the Communists
are

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRE
are the most conspiouous anti-ocoupation group in Japan,
they are in an inoreasingly favorable position to enlist
the support of persons dissatisfied with the status of
Japan as an occupied country.
(b) Nationallsts. What can be termed the nationalist
or ultra-rightist front today 1s not a well-organized
movement, end excent for several attempts on Communist
leadere' lives, it hes not threatened the peace and order
of the occupetion. A number of postwar ultra-rightist
organizations have reestabliehed the trauitionel link
between the Jup nese uncervorld (Yuromeku) end ultre-
nationsliem through ffili tion vith racketeers, bosses
and  ok merket operstors. Hut the continued operations
of the Kuromaku (which io a vell-est: blished institution
in da nese life shotlo not be regurdec  ion of ultra-
nationalietic resurgence. xtremists, be they effiliated
with ultre-right or ultre-left org: nizotiers, have this in
compon: stront or ositian to the oc vp tion nd to overall
U.. objectives in c. his common in, vhich they do
not moment rily  ue ue throup tre usuel terrorist tectics
thanks to the presence of the cccup tion forces, expleins
the arparent crse vith vhich an cpprecioble number of
Jeb nese move from one extreme eide to the other.
(c)
rurgees.
SECRET

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-10
(o) Purgees. It 1s believed that most, 1f not all,
of the 200,000 persons now purged from positions of
responsibility hold varying degrees of resentment toward
the occupation. This presents a particularly serious prob-
lem because numbered among the rurgees are some of Japan's
most influential lesders in business, government, etc.
E. Loroes Favoring the U.. and the Occunation
Since the great majority of the Japenese peo: le favor
an early return to ~atan of its full independent statehodd,
the fect of occupation if not r1 seant; end in this sense
1t would be her to find en acorecieble number of Japenese
fovorine the ocou  tion. Ho ever, Jarenere desire to be
ric of the occup-tion hes not cor noted to date Japenese
dislike of the occurstion forces or desire to reject on eny
significrnt scple the le sons tou ht by the occumation.
while there is  brond feeling of eratituce for whet the
U.s., frr beyond ell otrer urtiuns, s aone for occupied
Jan, o ulr sentiment f vorin . olicies and pro-
grame is of : vegue, incohesive cuelity. There is no
orgenized force in Jepen ectively sur orting .. policiss
or the occupetion.
. Jerenese attitudes Toward Continued Ocoupstiou end e
lence Cettlement
Puolic

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-11-
Public discussion of the timing of a peace treaty has
gone through two major phases, both conditioned largely
by the developments in big-power relationehips.
The first pha e, lasting roughly from mid-1946 until
the end of 1947, was outwardly characterized by the view
that & "stern but just" treaty was an early and definite
proepect and that its conolusion would be a long step in
Jer n's internstional, political, and economic progress.
It was frecuently bela thot e trenty, by enabling Japan
to resume foreign tr de, woulc make possible the solution
of J p n's econ nic roblems. iscussion of Jupan's role
in e conterence end its soiretion: for treat, terms gen-
erslly reflected the belief that Ja n would probably not
be consulted and vo l, have to noeent whatever the powers
decided.
The onus for the foilure of to ar at povere to  ree
on votin rocedur s, ne the conaecuent dirrine of pesce
cont erence prosrects vas gener lly throvn on the oviet
Union. Mevertheless,  tre  vit ont oviet  rticip tion.
nowever speedil/ it mi ht be orouyt bout,  s senerally
coneidered undesireble on the rount tn t it vo lo provide
no "solid founcatlon for peace".
The
SEPP

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-12
The second major phese of Japanese discussion of the
treaty question began in 1948, when it became apparent that
the occupation could not solve Japan's basio problems,
notebly political and economic instability. Furthermore,
it must be remembered that by that time the Japanese had
recovered from the shock of defeet and were inoreasingly
discosed to quest ion their status es an ocoupled nation.
jatriotiam wes reviving.
In August and cptemper 1948, the Socielist and
Communist +arties lnitisted nopular campslgns for an early
pe ce conference. In ovember 194s the House of epresenta-
tives unanimously :co tec un sll-nerty resolution urging
the eovernment to aunerl to sCAu "end other suthoriti s" for
the esrliest possible ronce conference for Jepen--"urgently
ri cuired in demoeratizing her politicel vorlo as well as
in reconstructing ber economy." Fowever, Premier Yoshide
in st tements curiny ecenber empbrsired th t parly conclu-
sion or  pe ce tresty wse precticelly inro sible under the
existing intern tionel situation; the protlen woul bave
to be handled by SCat in any event; nd "it is imuo-sible
For the Jerenese Government to declere e unil-terel st nd."
Yoshide modified this discour-ging outlook by st-ting that
"it is considered possible to conclude e provisional peace
settlement

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-13-
settlement with the Allles to teke care of tr de and
international finencial settlements."
During 1949 the major developments affecting Japaness
thinking heve been the Royall interview, the measures taken
and ststements 1seued by Minister Joseph Dodge with respect
to the implementation of the economic stebilization program,
and the accelerating sovence of the Chinese Communists--
all cast ageinst the beckground of the continuing antagonism
between the U. S. and the USSh. These developments have had
conflicting impacts. On the one hend, the implementation of
the stebilizetion program has aroused much epprehension
and reinforced the desire of :ll political parties for a
termination of the uper-government inherent in the occupa-
tion; on the other henc, the reporteo stetement by Seoretsry
Royall that the U.. does not feel resronsible for the
defense of Jepin and the implications of the Communist
adv nce in Chine ano of the continuing tenslon betveen the
U.. ant the u have brought to a he d the developing
Jensnese concern over Jaran'e future strstegie and econonic
position. ccordirgly, the pence tr ety cuestion in J panese
eyes is no longer the simnle cuestion it ws in the first
phese, when elmost any settlement vas desired as speedily as
poseible.
SECRET
Conclusion

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-14
Conclusion of a treaty remains, of course, a popular
objective, as evidenced by recent interpellations anddebates
in the Diet. The most vociferous pressure for an early
treaty has come from the Left, whion continues to feel that
under present conditions its position 1s weakened. The
Soclalist Party launched in March a campaign to obtain 10
million signatures on a petition for an early peace. The
Communist Party hes, if anything, stepped up the tempo
of its propeganda for  speedy settlenent, cstegorically
op osine s eltas my trety without the cviet Union.
part trom the Left, the trituse tovare en early treaty
hae been most cleariy rei lecteu in tre st:tements of remier
Yoshiu, who nas in recent montns cevelopcc  fairly con-
slstent pelicy on the subject. ltough ctrecing thrt the
treaty is a key problen and tivine essur nees thct the
gov rnment is doing everythine poselbie to prepere for nd
expecile it, he hes strouel: counreled th t the ratter be
lert to sCa no that porular movemenis eno iet ceoste on
the subject are uselese. voreover, Yoshic hes ecuyht to
make clear to the Japanese that a tr  ty muat aveit 
favorable turn in reletione petween the .. one the  
end, in any event, cannot oe expected in dv nce ci  settle-
ment in uermany. As if to enjoin patience on the nation. he
n8.s

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-18-
has noted on several occasions thet "foreign attitudes"
toward Japan are improving.
The degree to which the Frime Minister's reslistie
attitude is shared by other influential Japanese is indi-
cated by the skepticiss with which Vishineky's proposal
before the CFi to take up the Japanese treaty question was
received. Available comment makes the point that the Soviet
Unlon, having prevented the conclusion of a treaty nearly
two yesrs ago by ite insistence on the veto end having little
voice in Japanese arfairs unuer the current U.S. policy of
developing peace-treaty st tus wituout a tresty, is taking
this meens of exerting influence both witnin Japan and in
relatlon to polioles currently beint pursued toward Jepan.
The measures texen by the U. . to imorove Je n's
roreign tr ue snd to prepare J man for self-support have
groused nopes tht  uan may now be on the road toware economio
autonomy. Further steus tov ru rustoration of Je n'e
intern tional stctus, ir courled wit  relrxatlun of the
occurntion's domestie con rols ps runouneet oy enerl
wocarthur in  ay, would, ii csrrieu sut, miti ate but never
esprecisbly relieve e n se preasure or the conelusion of
a pe ce treaty.
As to the content of the peace tr t, the Joronese
ceonle n turall, seek the removel of as many disabilibites
as
SECRET

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-18-
as possible on a post-treaty Jepan, including the romoval
of all limitations on Japan's peaceful industries and on
Japan's access to foreign markets and souroes of raw
materials. The Japanece have indicated their interest in
the eventual restoration to Japan of suoh areas (eg: adja-
cont areas of Kuriles, Ryukyus, Nanpo Shoto) as they con-
sider integral parts of Japan for geographioel, racial
and historical reasons. Uopermost in the Japenese mind in
the conolusion of any peece settlement is adequate security
for Japan. Disarmed neutrelity has deolining appeal.
Representative enligitened Jansnese ovinion holds thet the
peace treaty either ellor Ja an an armed force for national
(efanse or th t the United tates assume the burden of
Jefunding Jan:n, the letter eventuality being vitterly
opposed by the Communists end nstionelistic tatriots.
There is a distinet desire thrt the treaty negotiations
incluce most it not all or J: an's former enemies. iremier
Yoshid: has rone on record a minst  bil teral treaty vith
the United states, while both the ocialist end Communist
parti s heve rejectec the ides of a treaty th:t does not
include the Soviet Union.
G.
Iroblems Posed
(1) Political Responsibility
Unt11

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-17-
Until recently, no progress had been made toward
politicel responsibility in Japan. The chief obstacles
have been (1) the presence of an interfering SCAP super-
government whioh hes stifled Japanese initlative and
responsibility, (2) the fregmented state of Japenese
political forces which has given rise to the instability
of a French coslition syetem as opnosed to the stability of
en Americen two-nerty system. The first"obstacle" has been
discussed in previous sectione of this n er. suffice it
to say here that probably no real political responsibility
1 ossiule under  state of occunatlon, slthough there is
& still wide margin for imorovlng Javanese political
responsibility under an occunation whose relations with
the J- enese povernment sre corducted st o hirh-level in
a supervisory manner on broad problems of pollcy.
Te most desirable Porn of covernment ln Jopon wo 1d
proboul, be one wa er i osed on  tve-perty ayoter ith
pover ltern tin between conserv-tive porty end  rro-
greeeive  rtv.
Recently some rrorree- hae been mede toward
t is objective.
The Tmuory loe electione sicnifled
Jananese vonuler disgust vit the inefflciency ond corr ntion
of coelition government.
.at the stue time the elections
gave the Democratic Liberal arty such a strong mendate thet
SECRET
it

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
-18
it has subsequently required the support of no other parties
in running the government. Opposing the Demooratio Liberals
(and the Inukai Lemoorats who may merge with the Demooratle
Liberels) are the Tomabechi or "anti-coalition" Demoorats,
the Socialists, the Communists and the minor political
groups. The Communists are making a strong bid for the leader-
ship of these op osition parties, but without any success so
far as the Democratie, Peorles Cooperatives and right-wing
Eocialists sre corcorned. Left-wing Socialists and Farmer-
Leborites are close to the noint of cooper ting with the
Communists on cert: in key planks of the Communiet pletform.
If  cesirsble sint le o osition prty vere now to rise,
it woulc locicelly develop bout the oc liet Party. While
Cocielism mey be en n then to m my, it must be recalled
that if the center of grevity of thie op osition perty were
to be located any further to the right, the left-wine ocieliste
end rarmer-Laboritus woulo be ettr cteo to Communist le  er-
shi,.  one-party sy tem would, of course, slfor at lees.
an outward sure of treet politic l u it. ut it wo lt invite
the return ot too many of the ghosts of Jton's suthoritarian
i.st.
() Intcrnal cecurity
Little

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRE
-19-
Little or nothing has been done to solve the pressing
problem of Japanese internal seourity. This is a problem
that must be solved before a completely disarmed Japan with
a weak, over-decentralized polioe eystem can be out loose
from close U.S. military control. As an imporant move toward
this end, the Department of State and Army have recommended
to SCal the strongthening of the numbers, arms, equipment
and, particularly, the orgenization of the Japenese police
system to ensure ef ective coordineted sction st all times
:galnst the type of well-orgenized potivity which is charac-
teristio of the J canose Communists snd ultra-rightists. On
the basis of 3Caf's periodic renorts, ve have received no
indicetion th't enythin, hos been done to strengthen the
Jer nese police syatem, other thrn the furnishing of scdi-
tional police small arms from U.. survlus suonli s.
(3) Janen: A-acifist Stete?
be belief emomo o  aneee th t vero nent neutrality
ol fere no real solution to Japan'e probler nas, or course,
been intensified by recent int rn tional develonments.
inged cbout b. powors oetile to a non-Commu ist J, the
Jep nese cen put little fsit in high-sounoing renunci-tions
of var no in comperisons of Janan's situation to thot of
Ewitzerland. In the context of cold wer, the Jap-nese have
reegon

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.94)
SECRET
-20-
reason to doubt the ability of the Un to stave off inter
national conflict or to proteot the Japanese against mggrossiom.
A Facific Pact would assist Japan only to the extent to
whioh the Pact's sign tories were willing to defend Japan.
The fact is therefore ineecapable to thinking Japanese that
neutrality for Jepen ie & solution only insofer as the
only powerful Pacific friend of Japan--the United states--
is willing to support Japen's territorial integrity to the
hilt.
Therifore, in the light of vorld conditions, the
Jepaneee have every reason to revoke Chepter II of their
Constitution, outlaving Japn's meens to age war, provided
the U.. does not a sume the burcen of defending Jegen during
the early post-occupation y ars as well r no.
i..
Sumary and Conclusiens
It vould be unr alietic to sup csr that the four years
of allied occuration lve conplecely uprcotec oluer o panese
institutions and e of t inking. indeed  policy th t
sought to do so woulc rot cnly be unr lirtic cut vrone.
For the Jar nese vay or lire har muell of intrinaie value, as
for exemple, J n se uevotion to ramily, denese cer city
for nard work, the horogeneity end  urposefulnees of
Japanese sooiety, end the Jepanese it onse of sesthetics.
If

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-21-
Ir the policies of the ocoupation undermined these amd other
native velues, they would be worse than self-defeating,
they would be dieastrous.
On the other hand, the wllied Powers, having won a
long and costly viotory, had reason to make every effort
to guide Jaran from the ways of var to the lasting ways of
peace. The demilitarization, reform and reorientation
measuree were therefore essential. Eut it must be reoalled
th t theee measur es were introduced or completed some time
ago, and that the occution sutrorit, s oula, at this late
atage of the occu  tion, be allowing the Japanrse to assimilato
all these sweepint refom me sures, western in origin, to
their own ays end reouirements. only in tis vey can we
expect the essentials of the refory mr esures to heve lesting
application in  pen. hether tais process of assimilation
is pos ible unuer the occ: tion  eme oroblemnticnl. Constant
interference by : super-government is bount to defeat the
process. Unuer the best of ciroumstanees, the otmosphere
of an occup tlon is not cuhcucive to th e erpence of a
r suons ible, stable goverament. Ln t me t readency of the
Janennse peoule to snift respensiti ity for their croblems
and haruships to the U. . occusation may affect the qualities
SECRET
of

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.92)
will alwaye be the basle fer the eusvival ef thst re
populated 1elmed coantry.
While relotionahipe between the ocupler and the eodg
have been remarksbly goed, there is no gainsaying that the
U.S. ocoupation, with its alien ways end relatively luxuries
l1ving standards, 1s bound inoreasingly to grate upon the
sensioilitics of the Jupanese. What the Jepenese were com-
pliantly wliling t one time to tccept unuer the initial
shook of dorert obviously does not represent what they will
be willing to aocont four y ars l ter. It is only natural to
xpeot the growing netiona] wereness on the part of the
Jupanese to ongender resentrent to: erds their stetue ns an
occup1ed oountry.
It was in reoognition of the foregoing faotors and
circumstances th t the sttplal erity Counoil areed last
jear on a series of nit it t al comendations
toward Jepan. There reco mnend: tlona stiessed the raoid
reduotlon of Headouartere to a amall lvisor roup, the
romoval of dissbiliti s upon the Ja anese (i.e. purge,
reperations, pre sure on reform) an, in generel, the
return of Japan to es normal s concitiou as po sible in tne
absenoo

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
SECREI
-23-
absence of a peace trraty. If these polioies had been
promptly and fully exeouted, there 1s no question thet the
deterloratlon of the situation in ocoupied Japan could have
been materiall, checked. But these policiee were designed
only to be of an interim nature and it is doubtful at this
late stage th t m-asures short of the return of full inde-
rendent st tehood to J nan will be adequately responsive
to the dirficulti e which we will be increasingly called
upon to face in t t countr. As General MaoArthur is
reported to have declored last monta, "tne peace treaty
nith Jn is lon, lon overdue".
FE::MGreen:c1h
SECRET

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
ECONOMIC SITUATION IN JAPAN
Ae
Basic Economic Position
Japan's basic economic position is that of a densely
populeted 1sland manufacturing nation poor in natural
resouroes and dependent on foreign trade for its liveli-
hood. With virtually complete utillzation of available
land resources, Japan se agriculture was able to provide
only 80 per cent of the nation's food requirements in pre-
war yeers when the popul tion w s about 70 milllon. Today
it is so million and growing at a rate of over 1.5 million
a year, further increasing the country's dependence on
foreign trade. Lecking in virtually all the important
industrial rew materials except ordinary coal, Japen's
major sources of econonic etrength are a considerable
industrial plent, e lerge,  arü-working, and technically
competent workint cless, ond  capacity for industrial
organization.
B.
Outline of Cccupstion evelooments in conomic Field
ith surrender Japanese foreign trade came to a stand-
still. Such industrial production as continued was based
on domestic resources and vor-time stockviles. An important
portion of Jepanese industry, snd en even larger percentage
of

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-2
of dwellings, had been destroyed by bombing, and the bulk
of Japan's ocean-going merohant marine had been sunk.
Inflation, whioh had been held in tight check throughout
the war, began a rapid upward march. It quickly became
apparent that importation of large quantities of civilian
relief supplies would be necessary to avoid disease end
unrest endangering the eafety of the occupation forces
and removing any hope of euccess of the political, social
and economic reform programs which were planned by the
U.S. Government during the war and inatituted in rapid-
fire succession by the upreme Commender. It wes thought
at that time, however, th t the occupation would be short-
lived and that the occupation autnorities need not and shotid
not, as provided in the U.. asic Fost-Surrender Directive
for Jepan, assume responsibility for Jap nese economic
reconstruction and revival.
The first two to tvo-and-one- elf yeurs of the occu-
pation activity were eccordingly characterized in the economio
field by (1) the provision by the U.. of large quantities
of civilian r lief sunplies, (2) the direction by the Supreme
Commender of sweepine progrems for the Geconcentration of
industry, transfer of farm ownership from landlora to tenent,
and strengthening of the rights and privileges of labor, and,
(3) efforts
010

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
3
(3) efforts to control prices, moderate inflation and other-
wime alleviate the nation's immediste economic ille pending
the antioipated revival of normal Japanese trede and termina-
tion of the oocupation. The Japenese during this period
remained for the most part in a state of shook and unoertainty.
During late 1947 and the first half of 1948, however, with
the failure of our efforts for e pesce tresty, intensifioa-
tion of the "oold wer", and evident fsilure of "apanese
trade to revive of its own accord in an uneettled and unpro-
cuotive iar ast, e "shift of empheais" in ocoupation polieles
oceurred, merked, on the one hand, by inorecsed efforts on a
long renge basle to restore Joranase production and trade
to hasten the diy when the burden of Japan's suprort could
be lifted from the v. . taxpeyer, and, on the other hand, by
the substential o mpletion of the economio reform progrems.
Funce were sought ane oct ined fron ongrese for incustrial
rehabllitation e well as for urely relief vurcoses.
The
oulminstion of the "s ift of emphasis" w s the dispetoh in
December, 194 , of a .. Interim irective ordering the
ins titution of  nine-voint economic stobiliz tion program
1n Jepan.
C. resent

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.96)
4
C. Pregent situation
1. Arriaulture and Flahing
The Japanese farming elass has enjoyed relatively
prosperous oonditions under the oceupation due to the
scareity demand for food produots. Plentiful cash supplies,
while of little value for the purchase of manufactured goode
due to the general shortages, have enabled farmers to pay
off long+standing inde tedness, and many former tenants
have been :ble to purohase their farms outright under the
agrarian reform program. Thie program, now virtually comploted,
hae been one of the most suocessful under the oooupetion and,
together with the fermere' reletive prosperity, ha oonstitund
an effective foll to the sprsd of Communist dootrines in the
rural areas.
Japen's basio farm problem of "too many men on too little
land" remeins unsolved, however. Muoh of the population
expension through natural inoreese anc repatriation has been
compelled by leck of onnortunity elsewhere to settle, in
accoroence with trsditionel Japanese practice, in the ferming
arees, witn the reeult that the averege farm holding is even
smaller then pre-war. The dubious prospeots of Jap nese
industry and trade also betoken ill for Jopanese trioulture,
wrose

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.93)
whose welfare ie direetly dependent on the purehasing power and
productivity of the urban population. The prospeot of ever
inoreasint population pressure in the rural areas and depressed
conditions in inuustry make it far from certain that the
expanded ferm pronrietor clase will be able to maintain ite inde
pendont status and a return to past conditions of destitution
and discontent in the farming aree be avoided.
The Japoneme fishing induetry suffered meinly in the
arly stsges of the ocoupatlon from shortages of petroleum,
nets and other equipment. Its principel pr sent handieap.
however, is r striction of the permitten fishing ar: to exolude
former lending Juranese fieheries in the bering e, off Kamohatka
and the furiles, and el sevhe re further fielr.
Concentrtion
of fiehine nctivity in n e home rntee  ualted in
progressively emeller crteh's throuer de letion of fisting
resourees. otvith tencing the wrester comber of fiehins vessels
employee, the take in leee in the permit ed fishine aree was
alightly soeller by elght thon preevor ftrom tre a me eres, end
wes about 5s cer cent of the totel pre-wer orten from sll
arees. the ervitted flenlns res was recently erpanded, how-
ever, ane  urtner exponslon ip being sourht.
2. industry end Finonce
Industrial production has gradually incrensed, but
1s st1ll only 5 per oent of 193n-34 levels. he growth w.1ch
hes

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.87)
-8
has oscurred, morever, hss been mainly based en U.S. aid amé
deficit finanoing by the Japanese Government. Japanese indestry
and finence are touay in a highly abnormal and unsound condition
whien le only now boginning to be subjeoted to correotive
messur-s under the eeonomic stabilization program.
rom the earllest days of the occupation, production,
partloularly production for export, and stable price and
wage relstionehirs have been sought with little reger for
the meane by which they were chieved.
The result hae been
unbslsnced bucgets, mounting lnfl tlon, and aubaiclze, aigh
coet industry. Lne to  heph: zarc llocstione system soaroe
materisls, inste d of being utilized to at rt the sconomy
on the rou to soun recovery, h ve li too fre uently found
their  y inte the leo  rket. tovestrent Pun nave soon
allocetre to e nomle us . wclly chsoune sy tem of
coet ne rice rsl: tionshl  seo on  networx of covernmentel
eubelci  bu lt u, outir  beit i mecirtely
peinlui,  ont to tosie  ti  tion 
econo 1o concitions.
Trouitionl wreroelte, cou Teo vith
the denanee of nevly est ol ts et unioor,  ve   led pust-
nees conceras vit excoesive vre bills. rrrteio of ite
right uccer the lebor n industriel decoccentretion l we,
deprivo or soee of its abl set rere y tre uree, in
doubt s to llled rer sratione pollcies, o treseed by 
roorly

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.96)
-7
poorly devised and administered tax system, and mubjeeted to
è maze of governmental and ecoupation controls, manegement
has failed to evidence requisite energy, ability and initiative
for recovery. Jealous of its new-found perogatives, leber
has taxon all it could get, evidenolng an averslon to hard
work and sacrifice, a reluctance to face realities, and a
willingneas to live off U.3. sid out of keeping with treditiomal
Japanese oharacter.
The eoonomlo stabilizat on pro ram direoted by the U.9.
Government lam December was designed to bring Japenese imustry
and finance back onto s sound footing to permit the earliest
possible attainment of self-suncort. A number of important
aotione have been teken under the program.
 balunced consol1-
dated budget hes been erproved for the fiscel year 1949-50,
bringing to : halt st lesst for the moment the lon proceasion
of progressively lerger government deficits.
xtort sulcidie
nave been eliminsted and iroort subsidies refuced end brought
into the open in the budget.
Counterpart unt s been
established clearly showing the amount of . .  in in the budget
and allocnting it to capitel. on improved syetem of rew
materiels allocations has been inetituted. Legisl tion calling
for

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
for elimination of a substantial proportion ef surplus persemmel
from the Government payrolls, and legislation somowkat liberalis-
1ng previously instituted anti-trust leglslation, has been
approved. Reorganization and reform of the tax system is being
studied. And a single rate of exohange for the yen hss been
establlshed to stimulate end rationalize foreign trade trans-
actions. On May 12, the U.S. Government, in a step also pri-
marily deslgned to assist Japaneee economio stabilization and
recovery, terminated the Aavance Transfers Progrem of Japanese
roparations and announced its onnoeition to any further indus-
trial reparations removsls from Japan, thereby enabling Japanese
businessmen to rehabilitete their plents with grester confidenee
that they will not lster be removed for reparations. On the
same dey SCa announced thst rermisslon hed been granted for
the reopening of the etock exch ngee in Tokyo nd several
other Jxrnese cities.
The occup tion suthorities during recent months have
1mpressed upon the Jaran se Covernment and peo le the fact
that mericen aid has thus far cushioned them mgainet the
harsh reeliti s of Japan's economio nosition, and thet only
by hard work nd self-deninl for some years to come oan
Japen hope to regein a self-suprorting status with  prespeot
of gredually rising standarde of living. Ithouch initial
misunderatanding

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.94)
-9-
misunderstanding of and opposition to the stabilisation pragrm
has been much redueed and a firm start made teward the stabili-
zation objective, it must be realized that the stamlizatlon
progrem, even if sucoessful, will not in any sense solve, though
It will help to solve, Japan's busic economic problem of how
to multiply ite foreign trade to supnort its enlarged and grow-
1ng population.
3. oonomio Heform rrograme
8 slreedy etated, tne transfer of farmland from
landlord to tenants under the sgrarian reform orogram has
been virtually completed. The crogrem curours to have won a
wiae meusure of approval in Ja n, and is unlikely to be
upset except by the return of severely depresseu conditions
in agriculture. While this poseioility is unfortunstely real
beoause of porulation pressure snd venerally poor economle
prospects, reforms in the fields of farm indebtedness and
texation, and vore effeotive farm reoresent tion in the iet
mey enable the nev proprietor class to avoic a reverelon to
tenaney.
ile the dec noentretion progrem per se 1s lso in ite
last st ges, disrosal to the ublio of the seouritles of the
diesolved concerns has proceeded slowly because of the
lack of Investment canital in Jar n no the des1re to
obtain s mrice approximatin resl value, with the resure
that some 70 per cent of the seourities remein in the hands
of

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-10
of the Government. Although the deconcentration program
is generally supported by small and medium enterprises, 1t
has not evoked widespread popular interest and its permanence
may be expeoted to depend upon whether experienoe reveals
it to bo an element of strength or weakness in the solution
of Japen's critical economic problems. Japan to survive
will have to make the most effective possible use of the
humen and material resources et its disposal. If a rela-
tively smell number of large industrial concerns, whether
privately or Government owned, enable Jan to present
a stronger front in internationel traue than a larger number
of small, more highly competitive concerns, it 1s reason-
l2e
able to believe th t concerns will eventuate.
Labor's new-found rights are hignly prized by the
industrial working cl ss, whose political power is such
that it shotld b: able to  rotect them ng inst almost ell
attucks.  though organizeo labor cen probably ensure
thet wages will never ein b forced down, ut least in
the major industries, to  re-lar, eve: ted levele, retion-
alizction of industry to en ble Jo nese exoorte to complete
once more on favorable terme abrone may reguire a considerabe
downward ad justment of or sent monetary wge levels. The
circumstances

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-11-
circumstances under whioh this adjustment is accomplished,
or thwarted, will be of long-range significanoe for the
future of the labor movement and the balance of political
forces in Japan.
4. Foreign Trade
Japanese forein trade revival has been significantly
slower than the revival of Janenese industrial production.
Imports in 1948 were 34.3 per cent of 1930-34, consisting
meinly of relief supplies from the United States, and
eyports were 13.5 per cent of 1930-34. Notwithstanding
the loss of the gre:ter nart of the silk trade, the content
of exporte did not differ markedly from the pre-war pattern
in which the textilee figured most prominently. Trade
with the non-doller areas wes talenced during 194e but
there was a large unfsvorrble cal nce with the U.s. almost
equal to the amount of ".. sid.
. number of f ctors ave c ntributed to the slow
revival of Jaoen's export trede, including the reluctance
of many countri s to rist import suruluse witi Jauen
requirin dollar payment, l-ck of familiarity by eranese
businessmen with foreign market c nditions, s ort sun lies
of materiels ene funds for exrort incustries, over compli-
cated exoort procedures, and the absence, until recently.
of

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-12-
of a single rate of exchange for the yen. Basieally,
however, the difficulty has been that uneettled conditions
and low productivity throughout the Far East have prevented
the revival of Japan's former trade with Hanohuria, China,
Formose, Southeast Asia, and Korea, and lingering war
bitterness in the hilippines and other countries has
militated against renewed purchases by those countries from
Japaln.
rrogressive reumotion of stable conditions in the
er est permitting a er tly expended trade with the above
named areas is a prerequisite of Japan-se self-support.
Letore stabllity can be followed by e substential trade,
lovever, there must be reconstruction end reorganization
of national economies cisrupted by yeers of wer pnd civil
strife, e rrocess whion even with su tential outside aid
will take time. lso, it is o. no means certsin, in view
of tne b:sic realignment of political end economic relation-
ships which has taken pl ce in the Jer ast since the var,
whether Ja an will be able to revive its trede witn other
Far  stern area even on the pre-war scsle. anchuria
and North China, formerly tigntly linked to  apan's economy,
are

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
-13-
are now behind the iron ourtain and it must be expeeted that
their resources will be devoted primarily to the development
of Communist Chine and the Soviet Far East. Korea, too,
will be pertly or wholly behind the ourtain instead of
an economic eppencage of Japan. Formosa's principal trade
ti s still cannot be accurately predicted but will be in
l rge port with Chins and Southeast Asie rather than with
Japan. South ast Asla mey continue to provide Japan with
subst:ntial quentities of rice and raw materials in return
for Jelenese cepitel goos but the demand for consumer's
coods must be expected to decline  these countries develop
their own incustries. oy the  hilir cine trade may in time
regaln its former, rel tively minor volume.
olitical ferment, econonic dislocation ena disorganima-
tion, loss of carital in the form of frctories, extrvctive
equipment and transport:tion racilities, en a growing
tendency to economic n tionalism ene r stri tive tre e
prectices, ll combine to lover roductivity, restrict
tr: de, enc lessen the ebility of the Per stern ar  in
the coming decede to sur port  reat industrial pomul tion
such as is foune in Janan. There is serious cus ion,
tierefore, whether vapan, in order to meet its minimum
treding needs, will not have to expand its trade with
Europe

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
-14
Europe and the Western Homisphere to offset and far surpass
pre-war volumes, mainly based on silk. It will be essential
aleo that Japan rebuild its merohant marine to a point
where it can again reduce Japan's trading costs and add
to its foreign currency receipts. Also, Japan will require
equal opportunity with other countries to sell its produets
throughout the world. Although discriminetions against
Japanese goods at the present time are not sufficient to
constitute en import:nt nandicap, U.3. eiforts to secure
most-fevored-nation treatment for ja an from the nations
party to the General greement on Tariffs anu Trede have
been unsuccessful, mainly because other countries ere fear-
ful thet Japen will agein resort to "cutthroat tactics"
to sell en adequete volume of soods broad.
notwithstandine the generl s ift from a seller's to
a buyer's msrket and incre sing evidence of vorldwide "dis-
inflation" or recession, there is some prospect that the
new single rete for ts yen, pro ress in simrlificction
of tr ce controls, grecual trensfer of responsibility for
trace metters to the Janonese, incre: sing trevel of Javenese
traders broad, end r-tionalipation of the export industries
under

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.94)
-16-
under the stabilization program, will lead te & gredual inerease
in Japanese trade. An adequate trade will be impossible, how-
ever, until stability and inoreased produstivity obtain again
in Asie and, probably, until new end important markets for
Japanese products can be developed in other parts or the world.
A recent study by the Japenese Foreign Ofrice conoludes
that Japen's merohendise exports, which 1n 194s were 13 per eomt
of the 1930-34 level, muet be 75 per cent larger in 1953 than
in 193 -34 1f the peonle are to regain the standerd of living
preva1ling 1n the 1930-34 period. unough nes been sa1d to
indioate that thls thirteen-fold expansion will be sccomplimhed,
1f it can be aocomplished, only with the greateet diffioulty
by the determined effort of the entire nation. It cennot be
secomplished by  instructlons to the Japanese or by s0aP
aotin for the Jspenese, nd it cannot be accomnlished while
the Jatanes re denled dircct accese to foreign markets and
other normal tr ding op ortunlties. the Jap nese can do far
better ii. msking the best of the ted situation vit w ior they
are focee then al or the
lllee cen do for them.
i..
Lumnp ry snd Cunclusions
Japan, the sbove anslynis makes oleor, f cee three besio
problems, vit the latter twe flowine in lerge cegree from the
firet:
1. To

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.89)
-16-
1. To expand its foreign trade to a point suffieient
to surrort its lorge and growing population.
Jocen's present population is so million, l0 per cent
lerger then pre-war. xperte see no prospeet of the population
leveling oir before l00 milllon, and the likelihood is thet
it wili stabilize at about 12s million. Unable to live from
Ite own resourcee, Japen to suprort its peorle muet literelly
multi ly its foreign trade in gomparison with present levels
In e orld vhare industrielly buokwer nstions sre everywhere
pla nine to Lncrense their incdustrisllzetion to reduce their
dependence upon the vagcries of foreign trade, thereby rendor-
ing the Iln of the " orkehor" natlon steadily more preosrious.
o cevelor a ayrtem of lncustriel ownerehir nd
oontrel in varen makin. for tre vort effective utilivntion
of Jercnere cscitel no I vor.
nto
survive must stllive its av il ol- resources
efficientis uho to the peet possiel
eriod of
experimont:tion wes Le neceseury b fore it wiln be ble to
oetermine wectner continu tlon of the syatem or fcer crivate
enter riee encour wrou curine the cccup tion roturn to seme-
thine closer to the pecullar c citslietlc ayater prevailins
before the waur, a co-oper tive ayeter, scoilistle system,
or Con  uniem vill be best mdupted to its r suirements.
many toye the latler two eyatoms are ln closer socord with
Jarnese

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.93)
-17
Japenese methods and aharaeter and the realities of Japan'
sconomic position than a system of free private enterprise
adapted fro" the Ameriean model. The treditional preferenee
for group effort and reaponsibility, and ingreined subserviemee
to authority, are atill strong in Japan and far outweigh in the
Japan se charscter the spirit of individualism snd personal
initlative emphasized during the occupation.
3. io determine whetner the nation's primary eoonomle
tlee aiould be with the Communist bloc or with the non-Commmnist
world.
It is a major U.s. poliay interest that Jsnen not
seek a solution to its problems through sesooistlon with
and probeble evantual incorcoratlon in the Communist system.
In the 1: t an lyals the 1.2 billlon dollure in economic
ald whic. we nave furnished -an since surrender nave been
proviced to meke it vossible for aeon to volo thie alter-
native. the considerstions vhien have made thst oxpenditure
worthw ile to cste sre wcue ly valid today. end it seems
clearly desireble that we continue our kld until the time--
otimiatloslly l954 or l95f--vmen Jepan cn may 1ts way and
become  in, t leret in some degr e, the m sler of ito
fste.
at the same time we must recognize anu sccept the
Paot

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.90)
-18-
frot thet unless we sre prepered, as we presumably are not,
to make Japan a U.S. colony, Japan's deelsion may have to be
for steadily closer relations with Communist dominated areas,
with increasing vulnerabllity to Communlst pressures. Faoed
with an overriding neceesity to trade, Jspan's international
alignments aust in the last snslysis be determined by economle
consideratlons, where the fucts are not in sur favor.
The United st t-s hae assumed a hesvy financial burden in
Japen so as to make possible attaiament or the basio U.s. polioy
objective of  puncerully lacl ined nd semocratic Ja an friendly
to the united tet a. iudeflits suaranteo uy the .. of
Japen's econo ie velfore vo tc o e:li- ei vin or tnia objeo-
tive, e rity seldom beine a o-ie of irienashle, vne vorld be
beyone our me nr. it must oo our uf ose, toerclore, to end
thie purden  rpiel  oelle  el ous con riuutine to
the attalument or ur rolic co i.  ne lndicetee course would
appeer to oo to ift stullify ing cccu  tion controls, to trans-
fer to the  un se elfective ros onelcilit tor treir oun
efieir,  to get the ve nese tereim ror themseive under
their on leere.
he a mese ln the luet anelysis must solve
the cl, ieult eoonomie rotlems with w lich their country is faeed
for Tuevgelvee, ne nre far more Jikely to succeed in the tusk
thn
  or the llles tryine to solve their rob ems for them.
re:

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
TOPSECRET
GENERAL NATURE OF THE PÉAGE ÉETTLENENT
GOVERNNENT DESIRES TO
The peace settlement for Japan should contain provisiems
for the termination of the war and the settlement of problems
directly arising therefrom and also for the establishment of
a basis for future relations of cooperation and peace between
Japan, as a member of the family of nations, and other powers.
A summary of the main matters which from this Government's
point of view should be included within the settlement is
given below. US policy on certain of these matters cannot be
established until after the views of the NME and the NSC-as
requested on May 23--have been received and dieeussed. US
policy on certain questions also will be affected by political
conditions as they develop prior to the time of the settlement.
I. Rights and Interests Relating to Property.
Provision should be made for the settlement of such ques-
tions as restitution of or compensation for property belonging
to members of the UN or UN nationals which was damaged or
destroyed in Japan, status of pre-war contracts between enemy
nationals, periods of prescription or limitation of right of
action involving enemy nationals, status of negotiable instru-
ments made before the war, industrial, literary and artistic
property, prize courts and judgments, etc. In so far as
these questions are or may be covered by FEC decisions the
principles of those decisions should be accepted and confirmed
by Japan in the peace settlement. For matters not so covered,
provisions along the general lines of articles dealing with
similar matters in the Italian treaty would be acceptable
(Articles 78, 79, 80, 81 and relevant annexes). These prin-
ciples might be included in the peace settlement or Japan
might merely accept an obligation to extend most-favored-nation
treatment on these matters to all members of the United Nations
leaving the details to be worked out on a bipartite basis.
II. Reparations.
TOP SECRET
SECRET

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-2-
In the opinion of the US Government, the transfer of
further reparations from Japan would jeoparidse the implementa-
tion of the Japanese stabilization program on which the
successful accomplishment of the Allied occupation objectives
The
in Japan depends. In line with this pesition this Government
should accordingly be that the peace settlement should include
no provision for further reparations removals from Japan.
III. Level of Industry.
The US Government is of the opinion that support of the
principle that Japan should not be permitted to recover capacity
to make war does not require that Japan's production for peace-
ful purposes be limited or that limitations be imposed on
Japan's productive capacity in industries devoted to peaceful
purposes. This Government has regarded the establishment of
a level of industry for Japan solely as a means for obtaining
reparations from Japan. As this Government now considers that
urd
no further reparations should or can reasonably be exacted
from Japan, the position of this Government should be that no
provisions for the establishment or maintenance of a level of
industry should be included in the peace settlement.
IV. Territorial Settlements.
A. Southern Sakhalin. The Yalta Agreement provided
that the US, UK and the USSR had agreed that "the southern
part of Sakhalin as well as all the 1slands adjacent to
it shall be returned to the Soviet Union." Provision
should be made for the cession by Japan of Southern
Sakhalin and adjacent islands to the USSR.
B. The Kurils. The Yalta Agreement provided that
the US, UK and the USSR had agreed that "the Kuril Islands
shall be handed over to the Soviet Union." Provision
should be made for the transfer of the Kuril Islands to
the USSR. Two questions, however, remain to be settled:
SECRET TOP SECRET

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-3-
1. Whether an effort should be made to transfer
only the Kuril Islands which were ceded by Russim
to Japan by the Treaty of 1875 and to have Japan
retain the southernmost Kurils; and
2. Whether the transfer of the Kurils should be
in terms of outright cession or of administration
by the USSR under a UN trusteeship (strategic or
non-strategic).
C. The Bonin, Volcano and Marcus Islands. The
Potsdam Declaration provides that "Japanese sovereignty
shall be limited to the islands of Honshu, Hokkaido,
Hyushu, Shikoku and such minor islands as we determine."
Provision should be made that the US retain control over
the Bonin, Volcano and Marcus Islands which are now under
US military occupation. The question remains to be
settled, however, whether we should offer to administer
these islands under a UN trusteeship (strategic or non-
strategic) in accordance with President Truman's statement
of general policy toward Japanese islands on November 6,
1946, or should seek outright cession of the islands.
D. The Ryukyus. NSC 13 provides that it is the
intention of this Government to retain on a long-term
basis the facilities at Okinawa and such other facilities
as are deemed by the JCS to be necessary in the Ryukyu
Islands South of 29oN. A question remains to be settled
whether we should seek to obtain these facilities by
asking for bases in the Ryukyus and if so which bases, or
by offering to administer the islands under a UN trustee-
ship (strategic or non-strategic), or by asking for
their outright cession.
E. Formosa and the Pescadores. In the declaration
of the Cairo Conference it was stated to be the purpose
SECRET TOP SECRET

=== Page 466 === (confidence 1.00)
TOP SECRET
of the Three Great Allies that "all the territeries
Japan has stolen from the Chinese, such as Manehuria,
Formosa and the Pescadores, shall be restored to the
Republic of China." Formosa and the Pescadores have
been under the administrative control of China. Final
legal disposition of the island, however, awaits the
peace settlement. A decision remains to be taken con-
cerning the attitude which this Government should take
under present circumstances toward the whole question
of the future disposition of Formosa and the Pescadores.
Possible solutions include provision for outright cession
to China, provision for Chinese administration under a
UN trusteeship (strategic or non-strategic), or indepen-
dence with or without arrangements for US bases
F. Renunciation of Japanese Rights or Titles to
Korea. Provision should be made for the renunciation
by Japan of all rights and titles to Korea and adjacent
1slands. Korea has asserted claims)to Tsushima in Korea
strait--which this Government has regarded as Japanese--
but it is understood that these claim will not be
strongly pressed in connection with the settlement.
G. Renunciation of Japanese Rights or Titles to
the Trust Territory of the Pacific. Provision should
be made for the renunciation by Japan of all rights and
titles to the Trust Territory of the Pacific which is
administered by the US.
H. Renunciation of Japanese Rights or Titles to
Other Areas. Provision should be made for the renuncia-
tion by Japan of all rights and titles to Pratas (Chinese)
Hainan (Chinese), the Paracels (claimed by China and
France), the Spratlys (claimed by France and Japan), and
all other islands in the South China Sea as well as
all rights and titles to the Antarctic.
TOP SECRET
SECRET

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-5-
I. Adjustment of Questions Arising from Territo
Cession. In connection with the provisions for the ees-
sion of territory by Japan to other powers as indtlated
above, customary arrangements should be included in the
settlement for adjustment of resulting nationality,
economic, financial and property questions relating to
the ceded territories.
V. Controls.
Proposals for extensive and continuing political, economic
and military controls over Japan are to be expected from
various FEC countries. For political controls, proposals may
include commitments by Japan to tm adhere permanently to a
specific and detailed reform program, including maintenance
of the present form of government, details of the judicial and
electoral systems, etc. For economic controls, proposals may
include provision for rigid limitations upon Japanese productive
capacity in a wide range of commodities including textiles, silk,
machinery, and over shipbuilding facilities, aviation, etc.
For military controls, proposals may include provision for
Japan's permanent demilitarization, including a permanent pro-
hibition against maintenance of land, sea or air forces,
possession or acquisition of any weapons except those required
for reasons of internal order, and a long-term agreement con-
templating Allied inspection and possibly supervision of Japan.
At present, the thinking in FE is along less extreme
lines.
On the political side, it is contemplated that Japan
should give an undertaking in general terms to continue along
the forward-looking path that it has been following since the
surrender. Specific reference would be included to enjoyment
of fundamental rights and freedoms (as in Article 15 of the
Italian Treaty).
On the economic side, it is contemplated that Japan would
TOP SECRET

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRE
undertake to grant to each of the United Nations,
of reciprocity, most-favored-nation or national or mon-
discriminatory treatment with regard to commerce, industry,
shipping, duties and charges on imported goods, etc., along
the lines of Article 82 of the Italian Treaty. This undertaking
would be effective pending the conclusion of bipartite arrange-
ments between Japan and members of the UN which Japan would
agree to seek to negotiate within a specified period. Japan
would also accept an obligation to observe the provisions of
international agreements relating to such matters as fisheries,
narcotics, telecommunications, postal facilities together with
relevant regulations. A question would remain to be settled
concerning this Government's position on the extent of Japanese
participation in civil aviation and concerning the rights of
other powers with regard to aviation within and through Japan.
Finally, Japan should accept a prohibition on the stockpiling
of strategic raw materials in access of normal requirements
for consumption.
On the military and security side, the problem is com-
policated by the fact that Japan has assumed a pacifist status
under its Constitution and the UN to date has failed to work
out arrangements for security forces under Article 45 of the
Charter. Solutions now being tentatively considered include
( (a) continuance of the occupation in modified form;
(b) establishment of US bases on the main islands of
Japan, or outside the main islands (as e.g. in the
Ryukyus), for a limited period;
(c) a pact of some sort along the lines of the
Atlantic Pact.
Such measures--though cast in the form of defensive pro-
visions for Japan's benefit--would also perform the function
of ensuring observance of the treaty provisions for an initial
period. Heed might also be found, however-depending on the
TOP SECRET
SECRET

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
-7-
specific measure for providing security that is chosen--fer
provisions for an inspection body of some sort such as
(a) a UN Commission for Japan;
(b) a supervisory body of Allied Powers--such as
envisaged in the draft disarmament and demilitariza-
tion treaty for Japan which was proposed by this
Government in 1946.
Depending on the solution adopted, provision might also
have to be made for the assumption by Japan of functions now
performed by SCAP and for the withdrawal of occupation forces.
VI. Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to the Termination
of the War.
The settlement should include provision concerning the
following matters:
1. Return of all prisoners of war and civilian internees,
to be completed within a specified time;
2. Renunciation by Japan of extraterritorial and
related rights in China;
3. Anundertaking on the part of Japan to ensure the
completion of smntences now being served by war criminals
in Japan;
4. Recognition by Japan of the full force of the peace
settlements made between the United Nations and other
belligerents;
5. An undertaking on the part of Japan to assist in
preventing the rearmament of Germany and Italy;
6. Revival or termination of bipartite and multipartite
treaties and agreements;
7. Provisions for the settlement of disputes arising
in connection with the peace settlement.
VII. Reestablishment of Diplomatic and Consular Relations.
consular relations should be made . Such provision might

=== Page 470 === (confidence 1.00)
TOP SECRET
-8-
form part of a general peace treaty or, together with the
items immediately following, it might be included in a
separate treaty dealing with the basis for future relations
between the Allied Powers and Japan.
VIII. Support for Japan's Admission to the UN.
The Allied Powers should undertake to support Japan's
application for admission to the UN. Japan for its part
should undertake to apply for admission in the UN and to
abide by the principles of the UN Charter.
IX. Statement of General Principles to Which All
Parties Subscribe.
FE:MMHamilton
FE:NA:MBishop/RBacon:fhh
TOP SECRET
SECRET
