894.628A Animal Husbandry., Fisheries., Japan, Adviser., January 29, 1947 (File 1560)
ID: 894.628A-1560   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628a-animal-husbandry-fisheries
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
IMPERIAL PEARL SYNDICATE, Inc.
CABLE ADDRESS "K E N O" CHICAGO

NEW YORK LOS ANGELES CHICAGO PADANO SUMATRA (DUTCH EAST INDIES)
5 NORTH WABASH AVENUE
CHICAGO 2, ILLINOIS
PHONE: DEARBORN 2844

Jan. 29, 1947

ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-H
JAN 31 1947
GENERAL HILLDRING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Major General J. H. Hilldring,
Assistant Secretary of State,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Secretary:

Since our conversation last week, we have given considerable thought to the question of permitting a member from our organization to work with the United States Commercial Company in the Oriental Cultured Pearl field.

We have had in our employ for the past ten years, Miss Theresa Jakobson, who qualifies in every respect as a Cultured Pearl expert. She has had experience in grading, valuing and classifying cultured pearls and is thoroughly familiar with every phase of the industry, from the "planting" of the pearl-oyster to the finished product in its various forms. Her work at both the New York and San Francisco World's Fairs, together with a subsequent daily contact with a cross-section of wholesale and retail trade throughout the country, has given her an enviable knowledge of today's demands and needs in Cultured Pearls.

Should the United States Commercial Company desire the services of such a qualified expert, we would be happy to co-operate with them to the extent of granting Miss Jakobson a leave of absence, not to exceed four months, during which time she would be able to render invaluable assistance to the United States Commercial Company and to the Cultured Pearl importers in the United States.

With the assurance of our sincere appreciation of your intelligent interest in the entire problem today facing the importers in our industry, we are,

Yours very truly,
IMPERIAL PEARL SYNDICATE,

By: Jos Goedstam
President.

JG/HJ

894.628A/1-2947
CS/A
894.628A/1-2947

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
FEB 20 1947

My dear Mr. Goldstone:

I have discussed with the United States Commercial Company the possibility of using the expert services of Miss Jakobson in the oriental cultured pearl field. They cannot avail themselves of your generous offer for fear of establishing a precedent which will be difficult to explain to other firms making similar proposals. Other offers have heretofore been rejected for this reason.

The possibility of using the services of Miss Jakobson in Japan to help stimulate the production of pearls there has been explored. I have discussed it with the War Department and a representative of the Supreme Commander of Allied Powers who is in Washington, and find that the reactivation of this industry is already well underway and by 1948 stocks available for export will be substantially increased. I have also been told that 500,000 grams of pearls will be programmed for export through regular commercial channels during the 1947 calendar year. This will represent a considerable increase over 1946 when, as you know, the greater portion of the available stock was sold through military PX facilities.

After probing into the situation, I am highly optimistic that the export of pearls from Japan will soon begin to show signs of real improvement. That, of course, is what you are most interested in. I suggest we wait and see what develops.

Sincerely yours,

J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Secretary

Mr. J. Goldstone, President,
Imperial Pearl Syndicate, Inc.,
5 North Wabash Avenue,
Chicago 2, Illinois.

A-H:ABMoreland:eg/bam (Rewritten WMCameron:mm) AH 447
2/19/47
