894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., February 15, 1940 - June 3, 1942 (File 1351)
ID: 894.50-1351   Pages: 478   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-11
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.91)
6630
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 15, 1940.
No. 4494.
SUBJECT:
JAPAN'S SHORTAGES: COAL AND ELECTRIC POWER.
Division of
FAR ENSTERAFTDS
894.50
OFFICE OF THE ARVISER
INTERN!
opartnert ofS
894.6362
MAR 27 194
DEPARIMENT oF 
 Cofly in FE
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
894.6463
P F TAE
2
ECVED
Cononence
.co
Bunenn  menes
EBC
894.50/118
in co frdenco
MAR 2610
OFICE OF THE ARPISER ON
ASSISTAI SPCRETARY
The Honorable
MAR 20 1940
MAR201940
or StATE
The Secretary of State,
CATE
Washington.
ir:
MAR2
FILED
The Department in its instruction no. 1849, Novem
ber 25, 1939, expressed interest in receiving a compre
hensive report on various conditions and phenomena ap-
0
parent in the present economic situation in Japan. My
3
despatches no. 4424, December 14, 1939, and 4362, Decem-
ber 22, 1939, were intended to be partly responsive to the
A
Department's instruction. With this despatch I have
the

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
honor to continue the series which I propose to send
to the Department on subjects within this important and
comprehensive field.
I have from time to time reported the progressive
development of a movement in Japan to rationalize the
nation's economy. This movement did not begin with the
outbreak of the present hostilities in China but rather
has its roots deep in the economic mobilization planning
of the Japanese military -- the navy as well as the army --
which has been in constant evolution from the time when
studies ofthe lessons taught by the World War clearly
indicated the important relationship of the nation's
economy to any military effort whether offensive or de-
fensive. The failure of the Japanese Army to realize its
objective in China by means of a quick smashing blow in
1937, made necessary a rapid acceleration in the implementa-
tion of a controlled economy for Japan. These measures
were explained to the people and to the Diet as necessary
in the first instance to the successful prosecution of
hostilities in China and latterly as necessary to the
establishment of a "new order in East Asia". The very
rapidity with which these measures were instituted pre-
vented careful integration. Strenuous efforts were made
for the expansion of all industrial enterprises with the
emphasis being placed upon heavy industry, machine tools,
iron and steel, munitions, etc. This expansion of industry
was not accompanied or preceded by the necessary expansion
in such complementary fields as coal mining and generation
of electric power.
A

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
A careful study of the power shortage problem in
Japan indicates a chain of circumstances which resolve
in a vicious circle and seem to be unavoidable. These
ciroumstances will be discussed under three general classi-
fications.
The present shortage of electric power, while finding
its immediate cause in the severe drought which prevailed
throughout must of Japan last summer, fall and which in
some areas, continued through January of this year, is
explainable on the basis of three fundamental factors. In
the first place, there have been for the past several years
definite indications that the electric power industry would
become a state-controlled endeavor. Practical realization
of this objective was brought about last April when the
Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company, a
semi-official concern, was established. As a result of
apprehension of this development, private electrical com-
panies were loathe to undertake expansion in productive
facilities in anticipation of future demand for electric
power. It is necessary for an expansion in industries supply-
ing producer's goods to forerun expansion in industries pro-
ducing consumer's goods: it is also necessary for expan-
sion of power facilities to precede expansion of industries
utilizing that power for production. Normal demand for
electric power tends to increase each year. With the un-
settled state of affairs of the past few years in the electric
power industry in Japan, and in anticipation of government
intervention and participation in that industry, power facili-
ties

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
ties were not expanded proportionately to the increase
in demand normally to be expected. It is to be borne in
mind that expansion of power production facilities must
be undertaken far in advance of any increase in effective
demand.
Secondly, the Japanese Government has undertaken an ex-
tensive program of industrial expansion particularly in in-
dustries demanding large quantities of power. This has
artificially increased not only the actual demand for
power, but has also accelerated the annual rate of increase
in demand for power. This program has preempted available
materials for the munitions and other favored industries
under a war-basis economy.
These two basic factors were in themselves sufficient
to present Japan with a power problem of serious dimensions.
There is to be added to these conditions a shortage of coal
and of waterfall. The drought was not inherently an in-
surmountable problem and thermal plant facilities were, if
Japanese sources of information are not entirely unre-
liable, sufficient to meet the immediate situation even
in face of the drastic curtailment of hydro-electric
generation of power. This is said to be true in spite of
the fact that at the end of April, 1939, the Electric Asso-
ciation estimated hydroelectric power as 55 per cent of
the total power produced. There is, however, a serious
shortage of coal, particularly good quality coal.
The basic power problem is inextricably bound up
with Japan's industrial program and will not be per-
manently

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
manently settled even with an abundance of coal. It will
require the most careful integration of economic planning.
The immediate problem of electric power shortage is, however,
a direct result of the shortage of coal.
I -- COAL SHORTAGE
The Japan Electric Generation and Transmission Company
(the semi-official company controlling the electric genera-
tion industry) had estimated early in the year its needs,
on the basis of the previous ten-year average of waterflow
in the various rivers harnèssed for power, at 5,300,000
tons of coal for 1939. The Company expected to carry over
approximately one million tons into the dry winter period,
1939-40. The summer drought completely disrupted these
plans and consumption of coal from April-August doubled,
trebled and increased even more greatly in many important
plants. The following are examples:
Consumption of Coal
April-August
1938
1939
*Tsurumi Power Plant
2,100 tons
59,500 tons
Saka Power Plant
45,800 tons
84,700 tons
Amagasaki Power Plant
255,500 tons
346,600 tons
As a result of this increased consumption, the amount
of coal held by the Japan Electric Generation and Trans-
mission Company in August was not one million tons but
actually less than a third of that amount. To this was
added the alarming fact that coal deliveries were slow
and far below the contracted amount - further the quality
of the coal was very inferior.
While
* Figures from the ASAHI SHIMBUN, January 31, 1940.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
While the vernacular press tended to place the blame
for the failure of electric supply on the Japan Electric
Generation and Transmission Company because of its lack of
foresight in arranging for an adequate supply of coal of
good quality, examination and study of the situation indi-
cates that this company was not solely responsible for the
difficulty. The semi-official concern was late in entering
the field to contract for its coal and as a result was forced
to rely on what are called "outside producers" rather than on
the Showa Coal Company, a combination of the largest pro-
ducers in Japan. Owing to the increased demand for coal and
the government restriction and regulation of the coal in-
dustry, small companies as early as last summer began to con-
duct what were called "secret" transactions selling coal
above the official price and of inferior quality. The semi-
official electric generating company was, because of its
position, forced to accept coal only at the standard price.
There is some indication that the Japan Electric Generation
and Transmission Company, because of its peculiar status,
expected theGovernment authorities to ensure adequate coal
supplies for electric production. The fact that responsi-
bility was divided between the Electric Bureau of the Ministry
of Communications and the Japan Electric Generation and
Transmissin Company has been criticized as being inefficient
and "bureauoratic".
On October 1, 1939, the Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry issued regulations for the control of coal sales.
It then became necessary for the electrical industry to
submit new estimates for the amount of coal needed for the
remaining months of 1939. The Japan Electric Generation
and

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
and Transmission Company requested 4,600,000 tons as suf-
ficient for immediate needs and to provide a carry-over
of 500,000 tons for 1940. An application for this amount
was accordingly filed with the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. Plans for increasing the production of coal were
not materializing successfully and therefore the Ministry
decided to restrict all applications for permits to purchase
coal. The electric company was granted permission to buy
3,200,000 tons. This amount, in view of the continued drought
was insufficient, but if obtained would have prevented the
present severe shortage of electric power. However, coal
companies were prevented from selling coal without a "sale
authorization" from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
In other words to obtain coal for electric-power production
it was necessary not only to receive a permit to purchase
but also to receive a sale permit from the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry. Sale permits for the full amount were not
forthcoming and authorization for the sale of only 2,170,000
tons was granted early in the fall. During the first ten
days of December authorization for the sale of an addi-
tional 500,000 tons and on December 27 authorization for
the sale of 350,000 tons were granted. To further com-
plicate the supply of coal to the electrical industry other
important industries were also suffering a shortage of coal
and with the advent of the stormy winter season it became
impossible to make deliveries of coal already mined. The
situation became particularly acute in the Kwansai area.
The vernacular press seems - and rightly - to place the
blame largely upon the fact that responsible authorities
expeoted

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
expected political negotiations between the ministries
concerned to result in timely issuance of permits for
the:supply of coal and naively hoped to be able to obtain
supplies immediately after issuance of the permits. Those
responsible, even if they did anticipate the emergenoy, did
not undertake measures last summer and autumn to avoid the
difficulty.
To prevent a similar crisis next year the Japan
Electric Generation and Transmission Company has already
presented its coal requirements to the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry for the fiscal year 1940-41 beginning
March first. It estimates a requirement of a little more
than 6,700,000 metric tons. Realizing its mistake in the
past year theCompany proposes to store approximately
1,000,o00 tons of this amount and actual consumption is
estimated at about 5,700,000 metric tons. As indicated in
this despatch, however, the question is not merely one
of estimates and Government permits based upon those es-
timates. It will be necessary to assure adequate pro-
duction of good quality coal as well as adequate trans-
portation during favorable seasons. There is every evidence
of a shortage of barges and other vessels suitable for trans-
porting coal to the consumption areas. In addition, many
such craft are being used for the transportation of coal
of inferior quality which is not subjected to government
price control. The present shortage of coal in consumption
areas is in large measure due to the failure or inadequacy
of present transportation facilities. It is reported that
there

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-9~
are at present some 200,000 tons of coal ready for
shipment at the port of Wakamatsu in Kyushu, but owing
to weather conditions it is impossible to ship this coal
at the present time.
The low-price policy has also had considerable bear-
ing on the present coal shortage. The Showa Coal Mining
Company and other large-scale operators were forced by
the Government to adhere to the official prices whereas
medium and small coal mine operators known as "outsiders"
escaped government restrictions. The Showa group were
forced to maintain low wages and low prices for their coal
whereas outsiders were at liberty to arrange their own
wages and coal prices. This brought about a reduction
in the production of the larger and better mines and an
increase in the production of small mines delivering in-
ferior coal. It is reported that in spite of the ordinance
designed to prevent competitive bidding among mine-owners
for employees as many as 1800 miners changed their place
of employment in one month last year. The price of coal
sold by the outsiders was in many instances double the
official price. The press has been particularly bitter in
its criticism of coal dealers but no less bitter in its criti-
cism of the Government's control system which has proved to
be inadequate.
II - EFFECT ON GENERAL INDUSTRY.
It was reported in the ASAHI SHIMBUN on January 31
that industry in general was seriously suffering from the
shortage of power. Spinning mills, for example, in the
Kwansai and Chubu districts were said to be subjected to
an

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
an approximately 50 per cent reduction in available
power. It was believed that a 30 per cent drop in production
would be inevitable. After February lst, spinning mills,
it was reported, would be forced to cease work every other
day. In spite of the vital importance of the chemical
industry for the production of fertilizers and other neces-
ssary products, power to that industry as well has been
restricted. This may have serious repercussions on agri-
cultural production next year. Even iron manufacturing
has not escaped and it was reported that a 30 to 40 per cent
restriction resulting in almost the complete suspension of
operations of electric open hearth furnaces, has been put
into force. The ASAHI further reported that the Nisso
Plant in Hokuriku which specializes in the smelting of
aluminum ores was being forced gradually to suspend opera-
tion of its blast furnaces.
These restrictions of course apply in varying degrees
of severity to all industries.
III - GOVERNMENTAL CONTROL MEASURES
The Government was finally driven to the point of
issuing on the basis of the electric power adjustment
ordinance, ministerial notifications restricting the
consumption of electric power. These restrictions, it
is reported,will involve a 30 per cent average decrease
in consumption in the Kwanto Distriot and a 35 per cent
average decrease in the Kwansai district during the period
from February 10 to February 20th. Copies of the Embassy's
translations

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
translations of the pertinent Ministerial Notifications
are enclosed.
The Communications Minister replying to
interpellations in the Diet has promised an alleviation
of the restrictions following February 20 which will en-
tail only a 20 per cent reduction for both areas. Coming
at this late date the Government restrictions fail to solve
the critical problem and enforced "holidays" are not only
causing great losses to industrialists but are also working
hardships on the laborers themselves who are forced at
best to accept compensating allowances provided by the
various companies. There has been considerable demand
for Government assistance to the laborers and the in-
dustrialists.
Domestic consumption of electricity has not been
seriously curtailed. Installation of new equipment for
domestic electrical appliances such as refrigerators,
water heaters, electric pumps, etc., has been prohibited.
Various organizations, including the police, have been
conducting campaigns to decrease domestic consumption
through the use of smaller bulbs, careful use of light and
other voluntary measures. Garden lights have been pre-
hibited since January 1, 1940.
It was announced on February 15, 1940, that the Min-
istry of Commeroe and Industry has approved a plan for an
increase of 6,000,000 tons in the production of coal during
the coming fiscal year. A subsidy of 5.00 per ton as well
as funds for new shafts and galleries.are to be granted. A
new semi-official joint sales company is to be established
to ensure maintenance of official prices, to prevent
"seoret"

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
"secret" and illegal transactions, to facilitate dis-
tribution and to discourage production of inferior
coal. It is estimated that the cost of this program
will be 1l0,O00,O00. A clipping from the JAPAN
51
ADVERTISER on this subject is enclosed.
IV -- CONCLUSION
The problem of shortages not only of electric
power and coal but of all other commodities will con-
tinue to plague the Japanese Government until such time
as there can be put into effect an integrated and planned
economy which will be workable and not merely apparently
expedient for military purposes. Experience has shown
the Japanese public that restriction of materials to one
industry and allocation to another tends eventually to
disrupt the nation's economy, and to prevent full realiza-
tion of the primary objective of the control measures.
Present failure in the coal and electric industries are
cogent examples to the Japanese public which now show signs
of beginning to realize the impossibility of industrial ex-
pansion not based upon a broad fundamental expansion of the
entire economy of Japan. Industry can not lift itself by
its own bootstraps and the best plans require skillful
execution not yet exhibited by theGovernment control
agencies. Japan can not solve its power shortage nor
other glaring shortages and difficulties until a sound
balance in national economy is reached and a well-integrated
plan developed and made effective.
The

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
Theconcluding paragraph of a recent series of articles
in the ASAHI SHIMBUN presents an interesting comment:
"If efforts are made to carry out as
planned an expansion in the produotion of coal,
interference with the plans for the expansion
of the productive capacity of other materials
will result; if we undertake shipment. of coal,
the shipment of other necessary materials falls
into disorder. These facts bring full realization
of the existence of relationships, which can not
easily be reconciled, between the scope of Japan's
wartime economy and the nation's economic capacity
to execute that wartime economy. In order to
rationalize the inconsistency between economic
plans and actual capacity, and to place develop-
ment of the nation's economic strength once more
on a normal and favorable course, it is absolute-
ly necessary to reexamine the program for the
expansion of productive capacity and to reconstitute
that program systematically and in all its elements.
The real solution of the electric power and coal
shortages will then, and only then, be realized."
Present emphasis on a war-basis economy does not,
in our estimation, augur well for the future.
Respectfully yours,
Snth E, fien
860
MWS:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures:
l-& Ministerial Notifications;
5/ Clipping, JAPAN ADVERTISER,
February 15, 1940.
Original and 6 copies to Department.
Note: Much of the material contained in this despatch
has been obtained under pledge of secrecy as to
source, and therefore citations or references to
sources of information have been omitted.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no./ to deapateh
no. 4494 dated February 15, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Ministerial Notice no. 3685, Ministry of Communications.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the
Electric Power Adjustment Ordinance, prohibition of
electrio power consumption is determined as follows and
shall be effective from January 1, 1940.
Ryutaro Nagai,
Minister of Communications (Seal).
December 18, 1939.
Electricity shall not be consumed for the following
uses, except that under special circumstances when excepted
by prefectural governors (Superintendent of the Metropolitan
Police Board for Tokyo Prefecture) and when permission is
obtained these limitations do not apply.
1. Neon signs - official public markings excepted.
2. Electric decorations - those used for interior
lighting excepted.
3. Advertising lights - signboard lights excepted.
4. Outdoor lighting facilities - except those used
for traffic signals or productive purposes.
5. Garden lights, with the exception of lights used
in public parks.
6. Multi-bulb street lights.
Ministerial Notice no. 3686, Ministry of Communications.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of article 4 of the
Electric Power Adjustment Ordinance, prohibition of the
supplying of eleotric power is determined as follows and
shall be effective from January 1, 1940.
Ryutaro Nagai,
Minister of Communications (Seal)
December 18, 1939.
A

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
A supplier of electricity may not furnish electricity
to be used in instances listed hereinunder, except that under
special circumstances exceptions are made by prefectural
governors (Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police Board
for Tokyo Prefecture) or when permission is obtained these
limitations are not applicable:
1. Electric baths.
2. Electric heating equipment for steam heating
applicable only to addition of new equipment
or increase in the use of electricity except for
medical treatment.
3. Electric stoves for cooking, applicable only to
addition of or increase in equipment.
4. Household electric refrigerators, applicable only
to addition of or increase in equipment.
5. Electric pumps for garden use, except those used
in public parks.
6. Elevators except those used for invalids or for
hoisting freight or for lifts of ten meters
or more.
7. Escalators except those used for lifting freight.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no.
to despat
no.1/494 dated rebruary1s
fram the Embassy at Tokyo.
Notification no. 232 of the Ministry of communications
(February 3, 1940)
Restriction of the consumption of electric power based on the provisions
of article 3, paragraph 1 of the Imperial Ordinance for the Cont rol of Electrio
Power shall be deter ined as follows and shall be effeotive from February 10,1940.
February 3, 1940
Masanori Katsu,
Minister of Communications.
Electric power shall not be consumed in excess of the limitation mentioned in the
appended table. However, this restriction shall not be applicable in the following
instances:
1. When the limitation in question is either mitigated or
revoked by the Minister of Communications or the local
director of a Bureau of the Ministry of Communications.
2. When the limitation in question is either changed temporarily
or removed by a prefectural governor (in Tokyo Metropolitan
Area, the Superintendent of the Metropolitan Police Board)
because of necessity to the maintenance of peace or because of
other urgent reasons.
3. When electric power not received fram external so urces is used.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Service
Distriots
Constmption other then that listed under classification IV. Southern part of Tohoku District.
(Breepting services listed under B of this table and
Kwanto Dist rict
excepting electric light services)
Chubu District
Kinki District
East ern part of chugoku District
Central and Western Part of Chugoku District
shikoku District
B. 1. Classification I.
Southern part of Tohoku Distriet
2. Classification II.
Kwanto District
Chubu Di strict
Consumption in the following industries:
Kinki District
Mining of metals
Eastem part of chugoku District
Crude petroleum industry
Central and westem part of chugoku District
Metal refining other than iron (not including
Shikoku District
aluminum andmagnesium)
ship-building (including manufacturing of
parts and accessories)
carriage manufacturing (including manufacturing
of parts and accessories)
carriages for the use of railways and
electric lines.
Automobi les (not including small-sized
cars)
manufacturing of industrial chemicals
soda ash
caustic soda
Manufacturing of industrial salt s
Petroleum refining
Artificial petroleum manufacturing
substitute liquid fuel manufacturing
Pulp manufacturing
Remarks
The classification of services is based upon the table attached to notification no. 38lo of the
Ministry of Communications issued in December, 1939.
(A partial translation of this table is forwarded as enclosure no. 3).

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
classification of districts is based upon the table attached to notification no. 231 of the Ministr
Communications issued in February, 1940.
of
Limitations are based, in case/ensumers having maximum electric power allowances, upon the contraeted
maximum electric power approved in accordance with the regulations; and, in case of consumers making monthly
settlements are based upon the emount consumed dur ing the same month of the preceding year or, when the con-
sumpti on for the same month of the preceding year is not known or under special ci roums tances, upon the
amount of electric power designated by the local director of a Bureau of the Ministry of Communications.
4.
The amount of eleetric power to be used in the month in which this notification became effective or in a month
in which the limitations are changed shall be calculated relative to the number of days remaining in that month.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 3 to despatch
no. 4494 dated February 15, 1940
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Table
TABLE OF CLASSIFICATION OF CONSUMPTION APPLICABLE UNDER
REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRIC POWER.
Classification I.
1. Service for military purposes.
2. Other services designated by the Minister of
Communications.
Classification II.
A. (Other items may be added subject to the approval
of the Minister of Conmunications)
Classes
Kinds of Industry
Items
Particulars.
I. Mining Industry
(1) Mining
1. Mining of Metals
a.
Gold mines (including gold dust)
b.
Copper mines
C.
Lead mines
a.
Tin mines (including tin dust)
e.
Antimony mines
f.
Mercury mines
g.
Zinc mines
h.
Iron mines (including iron dust)
i.
Iron-sulphide mines
j.
Chromite mines
k.
Mangan mines
1.
Tungsten mines
m.
Molybdenum mines.
n.
Nickel mines.
2. Mining of coal.
3. Mining of crude petroleum
II. Manufacturing Industries.
(1) Metal industries.
1. Iron Manufaoturing Industry.
2.
Industry of Metal Refining other than Iron
Refining.
3.
Industry of Manufacturing of Metal Materials
other than iron

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(4) Furnace industries.
(5) Chemical industries.
(6) Other industries.
3. Transportation, Communications and Other Public Utilities.
B. (Other items may be added subject to the approval of the
Minister of Communications).
1. Mining industry.
2. Manufacturing Industries.
3. Manufacturing of Export Goods Other than those
listed above.
4. Agricultural, Forest, and Sea Product Industries.
5. Governmental and Public Enterprises
6. Others
Classification III.
A. (Other items may be added subject to the approval of
the Minister of Communications).
1. Manufacturing industries.
2. Services for Business Houses.
B. Services not listed under classifications I and II,
Classification III-A, and Classification IV.
Classification IV.
1. Illumination.
2. Heaters and Motors.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch
no.4494 dated February 15
1940
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Notification no. 23l of the Ministry of Communications
(February 3, 1940).
In case restriction, prohibition, or an order is to
be effected in accordance with the provisions of article 3,
paragraph 1 or of article 4, paragraph 1, of the Imperial
Ordinance for the Control of Electric Power, designation of
districts shall be mad in accordance with the table herewith
attached:
February 3, 1940.
Masanori Katsu,
Minister of Communications.
Table Attached.
Table showing districts for the consumption
of electric power.
North-eastern section of Hokkaido.
Nemuro province, Kitani province, Kushiro province,
Tokachi province, Teshio province, Ishikara province, Kami-
kawa-gun, Sorachi-gun, Tubari-gun, Uryu-gun, Kabato-gun,
Hamaeki-gun, Sapporo-gun (Etetsu-machi), and Ishikari-gun
(Shinshinotsu-mura and Tobetsu-mura).
South-western Section of Hokkaido, Hidaka-province
Iburi province,Shiribeshi province,Oshima province, and
Ishikari province (exluding those districts belonging to
north-eastern section of Hokkaido).
Northern section of north-eastern District.
Aomori prefecture, Iwate prefecture, Akita prefecture,
Sakata city in Yamagata prefecture, Tsuruoka city.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Kitamurayama-gun, Akumi-gun, Higashitagawa-gun,
Nishitagawa-gun, and Mogami-gun, all in Yamagata
prefecture, Iwafune-gun in Niigata prefecture (in-
cluding Okamatani-mura, Kurokamamate-mura, Nakamata-
mura, Yawata-mura and Shimokaifu-mura).
Southern Section of North-eastern District......
Kwanto District....
Chubu District.......
Kinki District.
Eastern Section of Chugoku District.....
Central Section of Chugoku District.....
Western Section of Chugoku District.....
Shikoku.
EasternSection of Kyushi...
Western·Section of Kyushu.....

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
Inclos
from the
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, February 15,1940.
COAL INCREASE PLAN
Asure maintenance of present prich
leyels and proper distribution and
curb the output of low-grade coäl and
COSTING Y110,000,000
the prevalence of illegal transactions
Under the plan, the Government
would grant 750 per meter for th
excavation of new shafts or gallk
COMPLETED FOR DIET
expected to total about 400,000
during the first year of the plan. The
Commerce and Industry, Ministry esti.
mates that such subsidies would
amount to 20,000,000 and the boun-
ties to 30,000,000, if the goal of 8
Commerce and Industry Min-
000,000 additional tons at 45 extra each
is realized.
istry Seeks to Raise Output
The proposed joint sales compeny
is expected to cost about 80,000,000,
By 6,000,000 Tons
iryduding compensatory payments of
JOINT SALES
ENVISAGED
chase at pool prices of an estimated
10,000,000 tons of coal.
At the same time, the Commeree and
Purchasing Pool Would Curb
Industry Ministry would give first pre-
ference to coal producers in the al-
Rise in Price and Production
lotment of production materials and in
the distribution of labor and other
Of Low-Grade Fuel
materials to assure 100 per cent -
fectiveness of the program.
The plan for the joint sales company
WISE DISTRIBUTION SOUGHT
probably will be submitted to the Diet
as a separate measure. Under the plan
approved yesterday, it would be cap-
A meeting of high officials of the
italized at 50,000,000, a fourth to be
Commerce and Industry Ministry, in-
paid up at the outset, of which the
cluding Minister Ginjiro Fujihara, yes-
Government would provide 6,as0,000
terday polished up details and approv-
during the next fiscal year.
ed a plan to increase the nation's coal
The main objectives of the company
output during the 1940-41 fiscal year
would be to curb illegal transmctions
by 6,000,000 tons at a cost to the Glov-
ernment of 110,000,000, according to
crease, to cunb the production of 
Domei.
low-grade product and to adjust coal
Originally advanced by the Com-
distrfbution throughout the country.
merce and Industay Ministry's fuel
However, Domei adds, the Govern
bureau, the plan 'already has been
ment will pay special attention to 
placed befcre Finance Ministry offi-
netds and wishes of the people
cials, and it is understood that it will
be presented to the Diet for approval
sales compamy and take care n
before the end of this month, along
with a request for appropriation of the
cently in the administration
necessary funds in a supplementary
emample, the Japan
budget.
Principle features of the program are
a bounty of 5 per additional ton of
monopoly now under consid
coal produced, subsidization of new
floiam becaise of the acute
shafts and galleries and a semi-official
of electric power.
joint sales company designed to as-

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
OFICE DF TE 
0MAR 27 194
TELEGRAM RECEIXED
DEPARTRENT OF STATE
HSM
Chungking via R
This telegram must be
Dated March 19, 1040
olosely paraphrased
FROM
beforE being communi-
cated to anyonE. (Br.)
REc'd 3:27 p. mo
Difisionof
BE
FAR ESERNRS
SecrEtary of State
AR 2 0 1940
CON IDENCE
Washington.
EgL
136, March 19, noon.
894.50
894.50/11
An itEm of information which I havE rEason to
note
bEliEvE Emanates from GErman sources in Japan was
711.94
communicated to mE orally by thE British Ambassador
thE other day. It is to thE EffEct that JapanEsE
authorities welcomed thE dissemination of reports in
6
thE United States Emphasizing Japan's Economic diffi-
cultiEs stating that thE morE pEssimistic such rEports
werE thE bEtter for Japan as such reports would dis-
couragE thE taking by thE United States of :specialD
PR
FILED
R1-1940
measures against Japan.(END SECTION ONE).
JOHNSON
CSB
F/FC
G

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
HSM
Chungking via N. R.
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased
Dated March 19, 1940
bEforE bEing communi-
cated to anyonE. (Br.)
Rec'd 3:35 a. m., 20th
SecrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
136, March 19, noon. (SECTION TWO)
An Italian nEwspaper man news corrEspondent stated
that hE and othEr prEssmen had bEen urgEd by JapanEsE
authorities to spread such pEssimistic reports on this
theory that Americans ExpEcting thE Economic collapsE
of Japan would lEt mattErs run their coursE. I havE
reason to bEliEvE that German sources from whom such
information comes confidently bEliEvE that Economic
situation in Japan, and in GErmany as well, is not as
bad as is gEnErally bEliEvEd. (END OF MESSAGE)
REpEated to PEiping. PEiping pleasE airmail to
Tokyo.
JOHNS ON
WWC

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
PARAPHRASE
A telegram (no. 136) of Maroh 19, 1940, from the
Amerioan Ambassador at Chungking reads substantially as
follows:
A few days ago the ritish Ambessador mede known
orally to the American moassador information to the
effeot that dissemination in the United States of reports
stressing the economic difficulties of Japan were welcomed
y the Japanese authorities on the theory that the United
tates would be discouraged y such reporte from taking
apeclal measures against Japan  that the more pesei-
mistic the reports were tne etter it would be for Japen.
rieon
esader
e re so to velieve tn t this
informtion eriginuted  r  tn ao ane tha
t ese Germans feel certain that neither Germany's nor
Japan's eoonomio situation is as uad as most people
believe. A news correspondent (an Itallan newapaperman)
stated that Japanese suthorities had urged newspapermen,
inoluding himself, to disseminate suoh pessimistio re-
ports with the idea that Americans would let the situation
run ite sourse in anticipation of Japan's eoonomie
oollapse.
894.50/119
FE:ECC:HJN
FE gles
3/20

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMEN
MR. HORNBECK
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ADVSER NOV 22 1940
NOV 14 1940
Department of State
November 12, 1940
894.50
Mr. 1s:
I agree in general with theconments
on Lieutenant Towson's memorandum made in
the brief memorandum prepared in
Mr. Hornbeok's office.
In addition, I would like to point out
that Lieutenant Towson's comment in the next
to the last paragraph on page 4 to the
effect that in case we accept the new order
in East Asia, any further action beyond
genuine cooperation in its creation need not
be considered, seems to metobe highly ques-
tionable. I should think that we might
accept the new order in the sense that we
might not resist it by military action, and
at the same time deoline to further its
establishment by "cooperating" in the sense
that we would extend large credits to Japan.
Again, in the first paragraph on page 5
Lieutenant Towson makes the flat assertion
that three- and four-way trade deals are the
rule in countries devoted to policies of
strict authoritarian control of foreign
trade. That assertion, in my opinion, is
simply contrary to fact. I think it is
generally agreed that in the case of such
countries, departures from bilateral trade
balancing practices are the exception rather
than

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
than the rule. It is, of course, believed
that in some instanoes Germany attempted
to act as a middle-man in distributing
South American doffee. Such instanees,
however, must have constituted a very small
proportion of Germany's trade.
With reference to Japanese gold
reserves, Lieutenant Towson estimates that
as of the end of 1939 gold remaining in
Japan amounted to 59,256 kilograms, or
about $66,000,000. My estimate is con-
siderably higher than this. In my memo-
randum of January 23, 1940 on Japanese
gold and foreign exchange resources, I
estimated that at the end of 1939 there
were some $115,000,000 of gold left 1n
Japan. The chief reason for this dis-
crepanoy is that I estimate that in the
three years, 1937 to 1939, inclusive,
Japan may have acquired as much as
$75,000,000 of old gold, while
Lieutenant Towson estimates the acquisi-
tion of gold from this source at
$29,000,000, or $46,000,000 1ess than my
estimate. His estimate of newly mined
gold acquired exceeds mine by $7,000,000,
so that the net difference in these items
amounts to $39,000,000. In addition,
Lieutenant Towson appears to have over-
looked the acquisit1on of $16,000,000 of
gold from the Banks of Chosen and Taiwan
in 1937 and an export of approximately
$5,000,000'of gold to the United Kingdom
that took place during the same year. It
would therefore appear that even assuming
that

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
that his figures are accurate in other
respects, his estimate should be
1ncreased by $11,000,000.
With reference to our difference
as to the amount of old gold acquired,
it may be noted that $35,000,000 of
th1s difference of $46,000,000, men-
tioned above, is apparently accounted
for by old gold acquired during the
first eight months of 1937. This item
which was discussed at some length in
my memorandum of May 15, 1939 on
Japanese gold and foreign exchange
resouroes,is based on an estimate pre-
pared by Mr. Collado when he was study-
ing this subjeot intensively for the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For
reasons set forth in that memorandum,
I am inclined to accept Mr. Collado's
estimate, although at the same time, I
freely concede that it may be in error.
GL
EA:LUTHRINGER:VCL
AF

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EA
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
I have read with interest Lieutenant
Towson's memorandum of March 26, 1940
entitled "The Eoonomic Position of Japan
Current Estimate".
777
Lieutenant Towson's material on the
importance of imports and exports to
Japan's economy, on the depletion of
Japan's gold reserves, and on the trend
of Japan's fiscal problems seems to me
well chosen and well presented.
I find the material which he has
colleoted under the heading "Politioal"
much less comprehensive, as is not un-
natural in view of the stated subject of
the memorandum. The tentative conolusion
reached by Lieutenant Towson under this
heading seems in general to be supported
by his observations.
Under the heading "Embargo", Lieutenant
Towson advances certain conclusions (last
three sentencesof paragraph at bottom of
page 35 and top of page 36) which seem to
be drawn from data and analysis of which
no presentation appears either in that sec-
tion or elsewhere in the memorandum.
In

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
D
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
-2 -
In the stating of his general "Conelu-
sion" to the memorandum as a whole (at
pages 40-41), Lieutenant Towson seems to
me to depart from the stated subject of
the memorandum and to make affirmations
the basis for which does not, so far as I
can discover, appear anywhere in the memo-
randum. On the basis of data and/or
reasoning not set forth, Lieutenant Towson
"concludes" his study of the economic posi-
tion of Japan with affirmations regarding
probable Japanese psychology in relation
to the conrlict with China (last paragraph,
page 40, and first two paragraphs, page 41),
with an affirmation that under certain
assumed circumstances the United States
will obviously have to choose between two
political courses (paragraph at bottom of
page 41 and top of page 42), with an
affirmation that "Were Holland to become
embroiled in the European war, a Japanese
move toward the South Pacific would seem
to be olearly indicated" [?], and with an
affirmation that undoubtedly Japan's reaction
to certain assumed actions undertaken by
the United States would include "military
aotivity directed against the United States"
(last paragraph, page 42).
Stanloy K-Hornbeok

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
NBECK
APR 25194DEPARTMENT OF STATE
April 24, 1940.
Economic Position of Japan" prepared for G-2
by Lieutenant Towson is on the whole excellent-
ly done and merits close attention. In con-
sidering the conclusions of the memorandum
it should be borne in mind that Lieutenant
Towson has had the advantage of the most au-
thoritative official information available to
the Government. The principal conclusions of
the memorandum are as follows:
(1) Japan's efforts to obtain supplies
of essential raw materials and manufactured
products without the expenditure of substantial
amounts of foreign exchange have been unsuc-
cessful. Japan's debit balance of trade with
foreign exchange countries in 1939 amounted to
437,000,000 yen and it appears probable that
there will be another large trade debit this
year (statistics not available to Lieutenant
Towson at the time he prepared his memorandum
indicate that during the first three months of
1940 Japan's debit trade balance with foreign
exchange countries was larger than during the
first three months of l939). This debit can
be balanced only by continued exportation of
gola.
(2) Reserves of essential materials in
Japan have been progressively depleted.
(3) It is estimated that Japan's gold
reserve at the present time does not exceed
US$67,000,000.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
US$67,000,000. (This figure checks very well
with the Treasury's estimate and with studies
done in the Department). Other possible for-
eign exchange assets (i.e., foreign securi-
ties) might increase Japan's foreign exchange
resources to US$200,000,000 and gold produc-
tion in Japan this year is liberally estimated
at US$60,o00,000, making an outside total of
US$260,000,000 of foreign exchange resources
available to Japan, whereas in each of the
past three years Japan has liquidated about
US$225,000,000 of her resources. This means
that the end of this year will witness vir-
tually the complete exhaustion of Japan's for-
eign exchange resources. Serious repercus-
sions on domestic conditions might be felt
before the point of complete exhaustion is
reached.
(4) Price control has virtually broken
down in Japan; prices are soaring; and note
circulation has increased sharply unaccompan-
ied by a corresponding increase in the volume
of goods to be sold.  "It appears that infla-
tion in Japan is getting out of hand".
(Comment: this conclusion may be too bold.
While the evidence of growing inflation in
Japan is clear enough it would seem that the
Government has adequate authority and there
is still time to prevent any immediate runaway
situation from developing.)
In

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
In conolusion, Lieutenant Towson be-
lieves that the inexorable forces of eco-
homio pressure will very soon foroe Japan
to some very drastio new departure in
polioy. In as much as the most critical
factor in Japan's situation is her lack
of materials and foreign exohange re-
souroes, he suggests as the most logical
development a movement on the part of
Japan to seize the Dutch East Indies.
Lieutenant Towson's estimate that
Japan's economy today is in a precarious
position constitutes food for careful
thought.
3.m/d.
92m
FETUOnes: EAS/HES

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTAL
BECLASSIFEO
11652. Sec. 3
0-2/2655-8-391
Holphme 12/13/73
D letter, May 3, 199
April 6, 1940
MEMORANDUM POR THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF, WPD:
Subjoot: Study on the Loonomio Poeition of Japem.
1. The acoompanying study "The Economie Pesition of
894.50
Japen - Current Estimate" was prepared in the Par Easbern Sestdon,
Intelligmee Branoh, M.I.D., by Lieut. Norman E. Towman. MI-Res.
(Asst. Treasurar of the Washington Loen and Trust Compamy). The
work was performed upon the officer's on time but at the ofrieial
request of this Division.
Lieut. Towson is highly qualified by education and
1119
training to disouss matters of finance and soonomies. Ho has had
available information and advice of responsible and authoritative
effisials, in addition to his quoted souroes. Despite the obvious
diffioulties inberent in eooncmio studies today, it is believed that
the finaneial and eoonemic conolusions reached by Lieut. Towson are
worthy of serious consideration.
For conolusions sse tabs as follows:
Forsign Trade.
Gold.
Confidential File
Demestie Finanoe.
Politioal.
Embargo.
General Conelusionse
With respeot to the politioal obsarvatien im Par 3.
Page 41, that the "logie of the situation appears therefare, te he
an the ai de of me further areasive move n the part of Jage
of dissussion mad conjeeture beyond the soope of this htudy.
It may be said that Japam's futare eourase af notien
FILED
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
the writer in his iatrodustion (see the last three paragraphe en
page 4). While the Now Order in Asia has never been derined, ite
ebjestáves are well kmowm to be at wide variamee with our matiemal
aims in the Far East end almost certainly detrimental to our natiomal
interests. Nowever, our aims or objeetives, partioularly with ro-
spest to the outeeme sought from the Chinese confliet, have prebably
beem no more elearly defined then has the Japemose "New Order."
The realisable ebjestives sought by our Govermment are too mebulous
te permit a sure appreash in the adoption of methods to be pursued
toward Japen and in the Far East generally.
If the economio situation in Japan is as eritioal as
this study indieates, certaimly Japan is extrsmely vulnerable to
various foms ef esonomio pressure. She likewise is sensitive to
diplomatie pressure and to potential military threat. But the medi-
fieatiens dememded by this Govermment in Japanese objeetives in the
Far East should be defined to our owm officialdem and publie, and
to Japamese leaders as well, prior to aimless application of
eeenomie, diplomatio or military pressure.
The American publio is of many mimds with respeot to
the application of esonomio weapons. These winds often are in-
flusmeed by motienaliem or by dangerous laok of kmowledge of the
fundememtal factors involved in the issue. Two opposed sehools of
thought, one expansive and aggressive and the other statie and de-
fensive, regarding the applieation of the available weapons exist
in both the Army and Navy. They exist as well in other exwoutive
departmests. Obviously between the extremes there are meny gradue-
tiens of attitude. With the formulation of & national decision as
te advemtagsous and realisable objestives sought in the Far East
publie sappert seuld soon be rallied. Efforts of officialdom whish
new are divergent and ineffestive csuld be direeted toward & poist
in expressing and enforeing the national will purposefully and
mothodieally.
At the moment our relations with Japan are deterie-
rating. The pesitive esenomie weapon is cnly suspended over dapem's
head. It is well kmowm that Japan is intensively develeping wide-
spreed markets and sourees of raw materials with a view of avedding
this weapen. What appears to be passive diplomacy seems only to
effeet further deterioration in relations betwsen the two sewmtries.
Ee discernible diplomsey is being emersised suessse-
fully to meld Japom's course to Ameriosm will. Our petential maval
and military power is in the baskground with no dofimable ebjestive
to attaim.
CONFIDENTIAL
● 2 -

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
China, Japan and Se let Russia, the main fastors
in the tmmediate Far Sastern situation, eash in a way is vulmer
able to Ameriom will. The combination of theme faetors is
susoeptible te fashioning by the Amerioan Govorzment in the further
amss of cur natimnal interests end in the cause of intermational
stability.
Im this feshicning it is not necesearily true that
it is to cur advantage that Japan be rendered impotent aay mere
then that her stremgth should be preponderant. The same might be
said of Russia md, with sertain modificstiens, of China.
J. M. CHURCHILL.
Colonel, General Staff,
Aoting Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2.
Inclosure
x
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
THE ECONOMIC POSITION OF JAPAN
Current Estimate
Maroh 26, 1940
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
TABLE
OF
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
FORBIGN TRADE
Self-sufficienoy in strategio materials
Conelusion
GOLD
17
Ability to borrow
Conelusion
23
DOMESTIC FINANCE
Inflation
Conolusic
30
POLITICAL
31
Foreign Politioal - Nethorlands Indi
32
Conolus
33
EMBARGO
Cenclusi
35
OF ECONOMIC STUDIES
CONCLUSION
40
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
"War is quite ohanged from what it was in
the days of our forefathere; when in a hasty
expedition and a pitohed field the matter
was deoided by courage; but now the whole
art of war is in a manner reduced to money;
and nowadays that Prinoe who oan best find
money to feed, olothe and pay his Army, not
he that hath the most valiant troops, is
surest of success and oonquest."
-- Charles d'Avenant
"Essay on Ways and Means of
Supplying the War" Published
1n 1695
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
INTRODUCTION
It is the purpose of this study to exmmine the possibilities
inberent in the presemt economio situation of Japen, partioularly with
respeet to the sapability of Japan to undertake a further expansion of
her aggressive attitude. In the event that sueh further aggression is
not preoluded by coonomio or other weakmesses, it then beoomes neces-
sary to consider what limits to such aggression are brought to bear upon
her military forees by the observed maladjustments of her eoonomy.
If it appears that the economy of Japan is so nearly on the
verge of collapee as positively to inhibit any further expansion of ber
adventure on the Asiatie mainland, or to enforce the early cessation of
hostilities, nothing is neosssary further than to await the inevitable
denouement.1 It is argued in this oonnection, however, that because
of the peouliar nature of the controls exeroised over all seotions of
1) Paraphrase of telegram of Maroh 19, 1940 from the Ameriean Ambassa-
dor at Chomgking reads substantially as followe: "A few days ago the
British Ambassador made kmem orally to the Amerioan Ambassador in-
fermation te the effeet that dissemination in the United States of re-
perts stressing the econemie diffieulties of Japen were welecmed by
the Japemess autherities on the theory that the United States would
be diseouraged by sueh reports from taking special measurcs against
Japen and that the more pessixistie the reports were the better it would
be for Japem. The Ameriean Ambassader has reesen to believe that this
infermation origimated wi th Germens in Jepen and that these Germens
feel certsin that seither Germmmy's mor Japan's eoonomie situatiom is
as bed as most people believe. À newe correspondent (an Italien mews-
papermem) stated that Japeness authorities had urged newspapermem, in-
cluding himself, to diessmimate sush pessimistie reports with the idea
that Amerieass would let the situation rum its course in antieipatien
of Japam'e esanomie collapse."
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
Japamese eeemomie life by the Goverment, down to the most minute de-
tail, her powers of endurance are far greater then would be the eass
with an eeenemy left to its om deviees. Earlier studies by the writer
developed the eonelusion that the pressure of economic dislecation would
have beceme so great before this, that Japan would have been foreed
greatly to ourtail, if not wholly to disoontinue her military offort.
The eapaeity of the Japanese eoonomy to hold out beyond its estimated
powere of eadurance has demonstrated the error of this earlier estimate
and has emphasised the danger of under-estimating the tensile strength
of an eoonemy controlled by an authoritarian govermment. While the
acoumulating pressure of the maladjustments of the Japanese econmie
strueture is recognised, and will be examined in some detail, it is
mphasised that the risk of serious error inheres in counting too
heavily upon the early oollapse of Japan or upon the limitations which
these maladjustments place upon her capacity to oreate further disturb-
anee in world affairs.
The British Intelligence is reported to have fallen into
sueh en errer by under-estimating the Italian potontialities with
respeet to the Ethiopian eampaign.
of importanee, is the examination of the present state of
Japenese finsnses, partioularly with respeot to her foreign exchange
pesitiom. It is assumed that Japen's dependence upon foreigm sourses
of essential materials has already been made olear in previous ex-
haustive studies of the subjest, and that it is only nesessary at this
time to note aay shanges whish may have occeurred in this situation.
Her ability to continue to purebase sueh strategio materials abroad
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
3
CONFIDENTIAL
is limited by her capacity to sell goods and serviees to foreiga na-
tions, to ship gold, and to borrow. Her ability to do each of these
will be exmmined.
If it appears that the Japanese general eoonomie position
is seriously disturbed, although not so seriously as positively to
prevent any further military activity, it may be that the very exi-
genoy of her wmaknees in the coonomio field is such as, coupled with
the peouliar Japanese payahology, to drive her forward toward some
final dramatio coup. Altermatively, the decision may be to commit a
sort of national hara-kiri rather than to admit defeat and permamently
to lose faee in the Orient. The dovelopment of political events with-
in Japan must be oonsidered briefly in this conneotion,- partioularly,
the rise to politioal power of the more intransigent, chauvinistio
military group coinoident with their laok of military successes. The
fast that the Japanese Navy remaine umoomitted in the present venture
and enjoys complete freedom of aotion, is also an important factor, as
any further aggressive aotion oould most easily be undertaken by the
Wavy.
In the erent that Japan is not positively inhibited from
any further sotion and may, coneequently, wadertake measures whioh wdll.
foree action by the United States in the Western Pacifio, it beoomes im-
pertant to consider measures whioh may be taken by the United Statas to
minimise Japan's potentialities un the one hand and, on the other, to
attack her in a vulnerable spot. This will involve a brief examixatien
of her strategie materials.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
4
The effioaey of an embargo on exports from the United States
to Japam remains in doubt until it is established that alternative
sources of mupplies denied to Japan by the United States are not, in
fact, available to Japan. Numerous measures in the finameial field
are available, the application of whioh would embarrass Japanese trade.
The study is seriously handioapped and its value limited by
the apparent complete lack of a definitive polioy with respeot to the
future oourse of the relatione of this country with Japan. The oppor-
tumistio nature of the present course of tho Department of State in
this important matter, and the failure olearly to define its attitude
vis-a-vis Japan has engendered a lack of unanimity as between the sev-
eral emmoutive departments of the Government, and is oausing widespread
uncertainty in the minds of Amerioan business men as to the course
whieh thie Governnent desires them to follow. While it is recognized
that it is no part of the fumotion of the armed servioes to initiate
poliey in the field of foreign relations, it seems appropriate to
suggest here the desirability of some olarifieation of the present
anomalous position.
In the event that our foreign polioy in the Par East is
olarified on the basis of an acceptanoe of the new order in East Asia,
then any further metiom beyond genuine co-operation in its creation
need not be considered.
Should a strongly positive attitude be adopted, with the
acceptamee of the possibility of armed confliot to re-establish the
status quo mnte, then measures of eoonomio warfare, to which Japen
is singularly vulmerable, are available.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
5
CONFIDENTIAL
It should be emphasised that possibilities of serious errer
inhere in estimates whioh do not approach the problem from the view
point of world eoonomios as presently organised, rather than within
the limited field of Japanese-American soonomio relations. The data
for muoh a broad study was not available in the preparation of this
paper. Three- and four-way trade deale are the rule in countries de-
voted to polioies of striot authoritarian control of foreim trade.
A few cases may serve to illustratc this: It is reported
that Argentina recently sold beef in large quantities to Britain and
received payment in sterlings Argentine has recently been a heavy seller
of sterling in New York and has acquired gold, presumably with the pro-
eeeds, the question then arises as to tho final use to whioh this gold
may be put.
Japan, although engaged in a military adventure involving
maximum effort, is nevertheless reported to be offering armamont for
sale in Bolivia. This gives rise to the question as to whether Japan
may have achieved a market for her exports, on a barter basis, possibly
with Italy, taking arms in payment, and that she may be endeavoring to
convert these arms (unsuited for one reason or snother to her om use)
into some more needed materials, or into foreign exohange with which
ahe em aequire them.
Some months ago, it appeared from a superficial study of
the world flow of gold, that Mexioo had soquired, from some sourse
whioh was not readily disolosed, some 8 million dollars in gold bul-
lion. Should it appear from a closer examination that this esme frem
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
6
some potential smemy of the United States, the importanee of the dis-
elosure would be considerable, yet suoh information could not be ob-
tained from a more bi-lateral study of trade relations, but only from
a study organised on the broadest possible outline of world economies.
These questions may not, in themselves, be important or rele-
vant to the matter of this study, but they serve to illustrate the need
for a broad organization of economic studies, unlimited by arbitrary
geographio areas, suoh as was not available in the preparation of this
atudy.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
7
FOREIGN TRADE
The essential point of Japan's vulnerability lies in her
forsign exshange position. There are certain commodities which she
must impert in sonnsetion with her war effort, and these must be
paid for in terms of the eurreney of the exporting country. Prelimi-
nary to a eonslusion on the problem of foreign exehange, en examina-
tion of Japemese foreign trade is helpful.
It is elaimed that the foreign trade of Japan developed
so suceessfully that for 1939 there was an export balance of trade
exmeeding * 805,000,000. Although it is recognized that this wms ae-
complished within the yen bloo trading aree, the effeots implied were
mot noted.? On the one hand, this extensive trading within the yen
bloe produees no foreign exohange, on the other, it tends toward a
serious inflation of all yon bloo currencies.
The development of the foreign trade of Japen, for the
peried Jenwary - Ootober 1939, and for comparable periods of preceding
years, is shomm in smmary in the following table:
Table 1
2
Foreign Trade of Japan
(Japen Proper and Saghalien, in Millions of Yen)
1937
1938
1939
Experts to
Semeboukue and Aweatung
439
683
1,013
Chime
156
242
351
Other countries
2,005
1,207
2.09
Imperts from
Manohoukue  Awentung
238
325
375
Chima
13
134
17
Other csuntries
2.943
2,704
1.8
2) Seurse: Orimtal Boonemist, January, 1940.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
8
This table showe an apparent gain in exports, and a deeline in imports,
in 1999 as eompared with 1938, which would ordinarily be highly en-
couraging in the oase of a country whioh has had an annual trade debit
for some years. However, as already noted, trade with Manehoukuo and
Iwantung, mad with Japenese ccoupied areas of Worth China - the so-called
yon bloe - produse no foreign exohange. For this reason, muah trade is
essentially domestio commeree, we find, therefore, that Japen's trade
with other oountries had a not debit balanee of  437,000,000, for the
poriod.
Further, a statement by the Finance Ministry is to the offect
that imports from dollar countries for the full year 1939 mounted to
 1,707,000,000 wh1le 1mports from the sterling bloo smounted to
 524,000,000. Exports to dollar 0ountries amounted to * 1,085,000,000
and to the sterling bloo, to  728,000,000. On the basis of these fig-
ures, therefore, Japem coneluded the year with a debit balance, in terms
of dollars, of the equivalent of about * 622,000,000, and a oredit, in
terma of sterling, of the equivalent of about * 204,000,000.
In a private conversation mith a high offieial of the Treas-
ury Department, the Finaneial Counsellor of the Japanese Embassy re-
cently forecast further large importations of gold into this country
from Japep. Asked wby this wuld be necessary, he stated that war-time
restrietions en transeetions in sterling exohange and the bloeking of
sterling belenses rad seriously embarrassed the Japanese in their for-
sigs exahange operations, as they found themselves unable to draw on
their balamees in London and in other Britieh Empire places, and were,
in eemsequence, foreed to make payments through Now Tork.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
9
The total foreign trade of the Japanese Empire for the year
1939 mas valued at * 7,060,000,000, an inorease of 23 per oent ever
the previeus year, but 3 per oent less than the all time reoord es-
tablished in 1937. Trade with the foreign ourreney countries inoreased
by 12.1 per oent, exports rising by 18 per cent, and imports by 6 per
ont.
Japam's foreign trade by geographioal areas showed some varia-
tions compared with the previous year and some fairly significant changes
eompared with the trade of 1937. In brief, there has been a definite
inorease in the importance of Asiatio marksts, particularly the yen bloo
countries, the share of this area in the export trade rising from S1.8
per oent in 1937 to 62 per cent in 1938 and 64.9 per cent in 1939, and
in the import trade from 34.3 per cent to 38.4 per cent and 40.4 per
cemt respeotively., All other geographical areas took less from Japan
in 1939 than in 1937, although during the past year the exports to
North kmeriean markets accounted for 18.4 per cont of the trade, com-
pared with 16.4 per cent in 1938. Only North American countries in-
ereased thsir share of Japan's import trade during the past two years,
ascounting for 36.4 per sent of the total foreign merohandise purohases
in 1937, 37.8 per eent in 1938, and 38.7 per cent in 1939. There was
seme imprevenent in the relative impertance of South Amerioan imports
during 1939, mamely from 3.4 per esmt to 4.0 per cent of the total,
but the share of this area was not so great as in 1957, when arrivals
frem this souree escounted for 4o3 por sent of the total. Shipmeats
of all coonomie groups registered mubstantial value gain during
1939. Thore wms a sigmifleant inerease in the value of imperts of
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
20
CONFIDENTIAL
raw materials and semi-manufaotures during 1939, and a deoline in the
value of arrivals of manufactured produets - a refleotion of the effert
to reduse the unfavorable foreign eurreney trade balanee by the pro-
eessing of materials in Japan. Receipts of raw materiale advanced by
9.1 per eent and semi-manufactures by 22.5 per cent, increased purohases
of oil cake and raw cetton being responsible for the gain in the value
of the former group, and a aharp inorease in the value of certain un-
listed items, believed to be chiefly ores and metals, was responsible
for the gain registered in the latter group. Reduced purohases of air-
eraft and mutomotive produote are believed to have been primarily res-
ponsible for the 12.8 per cent deoline in the value of imports of man-
ufactured produets during the year, as machinery imports, whioh consti-
tute one of the major items of the group, were somewhat higher than in
the previous year. Various steps were taken to eliminate some of the
dffieulties which had been experienoed by the export trade during the
previous year and to encourage the trade. The measures introduced during
1939 ineluded the modifieation and the extension of the link system, a
system of eompenmation for producers of export produots, and the es-
tablishmemt of speeial firms to facilitate the delivery of raw materiale
to firme engaged in the manufaeture of goods for foreign marksts. De-
spite the desire to promote exports, some effort was also made to con-
serve existing supplies of basie materials and equipment by subjeeting
a wide range of non-ferrous metals end minerals, industrial and eleotri-
eal meehimery, and drugs to a syatem of licensing. Similar restrietions
were alse impessd on a wide range of produots for shipment to the yen
bloo coumtries.3
3) Batire paragraph queted from "Ammual Boonomio Reviow of Japan, 1939"
of the Daited states Departmemt of Commeree.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
11
The outbreak of the European war had a stimulating effeet on
exports to all markets, ineluding the yen bloo areas, despite the re-
strietions imposed on shipments to those areas during the last quarter
of the year. Shipments to all countries, whieh had averaged about
 263,000,000 per month during the first eight months of the year, in-
ereased to * 367,000,000 per month during the last four months. The
most pronouneed gains were made in shipments to the North Ameriean and
South kmerisan markets. Imports were comparatively little affeeted by
the war
The following table illustrates the ohanges in the destina-
tions of Japanese exports, and in the souroes of Japanese importe, which
took plase between the years 1929 and 1937:
Table 2
Peroentage Astribution, by Continental
Groups, of Japamese Trade
8
Exports
Imports
1929
1937
1929
8
1937
Asia
424
51.8
39.2
34.2
Forth Amerion
43.8
20.8
33.0
36.3
Europe
7.1
11.2
19.1
13.3
Afries
2.8
7.6
1.9
5.5
Latin meriea
14
5.2
0.7
4.8
Oceenia
2.5
304
6.1
5.9
8
Important chamges oceurred in the Japanese industrial struo-
ture during the period, as is indieated by the composition of meroham-
dise in the foreign trade of Japen. Thus, in 1923 foodetuffe cemprised
1s por cent of the total imports into Japen. The pereentage foll below
10 in 1933, and 1n 1937 it was cmly 6.6 per oent. This reflests Japan's
attaimment of self-suffieieney in food, The develepment of the memu-
4) Seuree: Daited States Departmemt of Commeres
5) Souree: Reviow of Werld Trade, Gomeva, 1938, pp. 67-8
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
12
 seen in the decrease of imports of finished
artieles from 15hti
slaions
in the increased
of finished artioles from 39.9 per cent in
1923 to 59.8 per
lin of
1937. The imports of raw materiale and semi-
29376
0 11
unl mite
efforts of Japan to expand her trade with for-
thpre
eign eurrenoy ed
is indieated by the following table showing
Japan's trade wi
in coumtries of Latin Amerioa;
Table 3
Lopment of Japan's Trade with
a
In Countries of Latin Amerion?
(In Thousands of Yen)
Jan.
 Jan. to Sopt.
Whole Year
日
1938
1938
1937
1936
Exporte to:
Mexieo
4
g
3.541
5.317
13,622
7,190
Panama
5
15
4,134
6,228
10,248
9.546
Peru
18
4,062
5.760
6.3山
6,156
Chile
8
4.703
6,129
10,742
7.426
Argentina
16,054
19,607
42.481
22.712
Brasil
7.662
10.388
17.305
3.840
Uruguay
3.295
3.988
10,106
7,891
Imports frem:
Mexieo
3.979
4.518
14.262
18,680
7
9
66
17
Peru
1,791
1,975
6.277
13,000
Chile
0.554
11.152
2山.719
9.953
Argentina
16,782
24,356
42.018
29,988
Brasil
1
27.857
46,174
62,810
47,358
Uraguay
6
3.139
4150
33,926
9.528
The table also
1d
as the rather marked extent to which Japenese ef-
forte have fai 
chieve suesess. The redustion, for example, of
6) Sourse: "Th
do Stremgth of Japan," Isoshi Asabi, Tokyo, P. 177
of Finenes, Tekyo
L
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
13
CONFIDENTIAL
Japem's exports to Argentine in 1939, as compared with 1938, undoubt-
edly accounts for her efforts, reoently sussessful, to negotiate a
trade agresment with that country. The deoline in Japanese takings
of Mexioem exports probably acoounts for the departure in Marsh 1940
of a Hexiean Trade Commission for Tokyo. Partieularly with reapeet to
Nexieo, two reeent news dispatebes are of interest: On February 3,
1940 it was reported that negotiations were under way between the Mit-
sui interests, represented by the Laguna Corporation? and the Mexican
Petroleum Corporation, for purohase by Japan of 7,000,000 barrels of
oil: payment was to have been made partly in cash end partly in goods
on a barter basis. A week later it was reported that these negotia-
tioms were meeting with serioue diffioulties due to the high cost of
shipping via the Panama Canal. The Mexioans agreed to lower the price
1f Japan should make full payment in cash, but the Japanese still were
endeavoring to make payment partly in goods.2
6) "Two Japanese, Sukio Nagamateu and Tomoyuki Nagamatsu have offi-
eially informed the Department of Eeonomy (Mexiean) that they are the
sele ommers of the capital stoek of the Companie Mexieane de Petroleo
La Laguma. 8.." - M. A. Mxio0 City, No. 6978, Maroh 5. 1936. A -
pert published in the Now York Timee Mareh 27, 190 is to the effeet
that the property of a "Lagune Cerperation", desoribed as an Imerieem
eesperatien prodesing chiele, had been expropriated.
9) Bouree: "Amerasia", Now York, Mareh 1940.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
Solfweeffiesomey in strategle materiale:
The present organisatiem of Japan's econemy is direoted
exslusively to the war aim: subduing the adversary. Her peeeetime
indsstries have been ssverely curtailed in their operations emsept
insofar as they contributed to the mcquisition of foreign exobange.
The exshange, onoe asquired, has been expended, not on the purahase
of more raw materials for industry as a whole, but only such materials
as were ineseapably required for military use. The searoity of these
strategie materials is the key to Japanese foreigm polioy. It direoted
the progrem of expansion by military conquest and, her estimates of
the exhaustion whieh would result from that conflict having erred on
the side of too great optimiam, Japan now finds her foreign polioy more
then ever sontrolled by her absolute need of strategio raw materials
whioh she om only obtain from other nations.
Prior to the ourrent hostilities, Japan aooumulated sub-
stantial steoks of essentiel materials, inoluding not more than two
years' supply of oil, not more then one year's supply of iron, niokel,
copper, and mmaller quentities of lead, tin, sine, and various ahemi-
eals. There has been & progressive depletion of these reserves, and to
rebuild them, Japem has gone far on the road toward the total exhaustion
of her fimensial resouress md the dielesation of her domestis economy.
Japem must be sensidered self-suffieient in foodetuffs if
she has aesess to Kores, Fermosa, and Manehoukno.
In agrieultural rew materials there is a deficieney in ccttem,
rubber, vegetable fibre, eileseds, wood pulp and wool. The supply of
rubber, cotton md wool depends almost wholly on foreign sourees. The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
15
CONFIDENTIAL
textile industry, dependent on imported cotton and wool, together with
the produstion of silk, forms the keystone of Japan's soonomie strueture.
Manchoukuo, Korea and North China have, so far, been disappointing as
seurses of cotton.
There is serious defioiency of the following miperals: oil,
eoking ccal, iron ore, serap iron, lead, tin, sine, niekel, mereury, an-
timony, platinum and sopper. North China mines may be expeoted to re-
~ lieve the shortage of coking coal, although something of a bottle neek
surrently exists through lack of adsquate shipping facilities for its
tremsport. Domestie ore souroes can meet only about 30 per cent of nor-
mal needs or 20 per cent of wartine needs of the Japanese iron end steel
industry. Serap iron md steel imported from the United States are al-
most as importent to the industry as pig iron, as the use of sorap con-
serves both iron ore mnd coal. Copper is imported because of the ex-
ceseive cost of mining it from domestio resouroes. Although dependemt,
at present, on foreign mouroes, Japan may become self-suffioient in
niekel, quiekeilver, aluminum and antimony. Lead, tin and sino must be
imported.
Japemese domestio sourees and nearby Japanese controlled
sourees provide only about 10 per eont of Japen's war requirememts of
potroloum.10 Efferte to produee synthetic petroloum by various pro-
eesses have not, so far, proved satisfactory. Solution of thie pressing
preblem dees net eppear to lie, at present, within the sphere of Japanese
inflwemee. Future developmonte, however, may serve to remedy the situa-
10) Predustion ef ei1 in Japan, ineluding Pormosa, 1938, 2,500,000 bar-
rele, 1999, 2.379,000 barrela. The O11 and Cas Jouraal, Tulse,
Ohlahema, Jammary 25, 1960.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
16
CONFIDENTIAL
tiem, notably, the possibility of rapprochement with Russie, or some
move of aggression direeted at the resources of the Netherlands Indies.
Cenelusion:
Japan's best efforts to balance trade figures have failed to
provide the raw materials essential to ber military effort and, at the
ssme time, necessary to the oontinued operation of her industry, without
creating an annual defioit of subetantial amount. The extrame paucity
of natural resourees has foroed Japan to "live beyond her means" for
some years, and now that she has embarked upon a renewed program of
military conquest designed to remedy the situation, she has enoouraged
caly more serious problems. It appears outside the realm of reasonable
possibility to expect anything better than amother lerge trade defieit
for this year. This ean only be balanoed by the export of gold, or by
borrowing.
11) Por a detailed study of Japanese celf-suffieiemey in strategie mate-
rials, with tables, sse Par Basterm Seetion, G-2.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
27
CONFIDENTIAL
GOLD
In order to balanse her international ascounts, whieh have
abewn a net debit year after year, Japan has had to export considerable
quantities of gold, partioularly in the last few years. At the end of
1936, the Bank of Japan's gold reserve totalled & 548,000,000 but this
amount was reduced in ensuing months by shipments abroad. On August 25,
1936, the Bank's gold stook was revalued on the basis of 290 milli-
greme of fine gold to the yen, as compared with the former gold content
of 750 milligrams. At the same time the Bank's gold reserve was set at
 00l,000,000 (val ed on the new basis). The surplus gold resulting
from this operation ms transferred to a newly created gold fund speoial
account, Although from that tine on, the Japanese Government osased to
publish figures on gold exports, it was subsequently announoed, in in-
swer to interpellations in the Diet, that shipments during 1937 amounted
to  860,000,000. Virtually all of this was sent to the United States,
whese imperts of gold from Japan during the year were reported to be
6470.00512
While the produstion of newly mined gold has been speeded up
eemsiderably, it is reperted to have fallen short of expectations. Pro-
duetiom for 1937 1s estimated at 44,000 kilograms (* 169,400,000 or
$50,000,000 approximatoly).12 Produotion of gold in Japan, in 1938,
the basis of the nermal pereentage of inerease, 1939 produetion has besm
estimated by the writer to have been about 70,000 kilograms.
12) Seuree: Board of Govermers of the Federal Reserve System.
13) Seuroe: League of Natiens Statistieal Year Beeks, and Imperial
Zastitute statistical Samaries.
Il) Seurees Darean of Fereige and Demsstie Commeres, U. S. Dept. of Commeree.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
18
For convemience in redusing statisties of gold to comparable
bases, all figures have been redused to kilograms, according to the fol-
lewing table:
Table 4
Conversion Table Used in Caleulations
Appearing in thie Seetion
I motrio ton
1,000 kilograms
1 kilogram
32.15062 troy oumoes
3,850
1,125
1 troy ounce
480 grains
As already indieated, the measures adopted have not been suo-
cessful in re-establishing a balance of Japan's international payments,
with the result that a net annual defioit has neoessitated an outward
flow of gold from Japen at least equal to, and probably in exoess of,
the annual produstion of newly mined gold. This exported gold, sold
exolusively to the United States so far as available data indioate, has
been utilized in the purohase of needed supplies, as there is no gold
All possible efforts are being direoted towards bolstering
geld eupplies. The enactment of the Gold Hoarding Law brought a rush
by holders to semply with the provisions of the law whioh required that
a deelaration of gold on hand be made between the 15th and 20th of
November 1938. As the result of the compilation of all the returas made
mder the law, it was reoently anmouneed that gold to the amount of
some  100,000,000 had besm brought to 11ght by January 1, 1939. It ean-
15) Souree: Offiee of the Teshmical Assistant to the Seeretary of the
Treasury.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
19
met be detemmimed what proportion of the hidden gold has been accounted
for in the * 100,000,000 unoovered up to January 1939, though, when the
patrictiem of the people and their willingmess to make sacrifioes is con-
sidered, it is thought likely that the said smoumt represents a large prv-
pertion of the total of suoh available resourees, and that little if any
mere geld can be prosured in this manmer.
The follewing table givee the total amount of gold received in
the United States in eaoh of the years stated:
Table 5
(Valued at $35 por fine ounce)
1937
$246,464,000
1938
168,740,000
1939
165,605,000
1940, January
37,680.000
618,489,000 or 549,000 kg.
The following table represente the writer's effort to calou-
late Japan's present remaining gold:
Table 6
Japan's Gold Resources
The gold reserves of the Bank of Japan, as of December
31. 1936, wore ofrio1al1y reported as * 548,342,000,
which was carried at the old equivalent of 750 milligrams
por *1,
411,256 kg,
To this should be added the smount of gold newly mined
in the three years 1937, 1938, and 1939
171,000
Plus the amount of do-hoarded gold, & 100,000,000
26,000
608.256 
Subtrasting the mount of gold received in this country
from Japen during the period
549,000
There remains
59.256 kg.
16) Beuree: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Syatem.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
20
The present reserves of the Bank of Japen are stated as be-
ing * 501,000,000 whioh, at the present conversion figure of 290 milli-
grams per ¥1, would be the equivalent of 145,290 kilograms. The dis-
erepeney between this offioial figure, and the net smount remaining after
the caloulation above 1s 86,034 kilograms, or appraximately * 350,000,000.
The net figure of 59,256 kilograme arrived at in the above caloulation
has been substantially verified by independent estimates: "With the
sale to the United States of 38,000,000 of gold in January, Japen has
loss than $80,000,000 of gold remaining. Other liquid foreign exohange
assets will hardly bring the total of foreign exchange resouroes avail-
able to Japan above $200,000,000. The Japanese Emp1re wi11 produoe
during 1940 from $50,000,000 to $60,000,000 of new gold. Therefore, the
total foreigm exehange assets whioh will be available to the Japeness
Goverment during 1940 wil1 not be more than $260,000,000. The serious-
ness of Japan's foreign exohange position is indicated by the fact that
Japan has been foreed to 11quidate 9225,000,000 of foreim oxohange as-
sets in eech of the past three years. If Japan's balance of payments
1s not radically adjusted, her foreign exohange resourees will be ex-
hausted at the end of this year. She has already out her imports to
the bone and eny further reduotion will seriously hamper her export
eapecity and ar effeotiveness."17
Purther, it is reported that the Yokohama Speoie Bank has
a net overdraft in its New York office to the mount of approximately
$80,000,000. It is net olear whether this has been taken into sensidere-
tien in the preparation of the estimate quoted aboro.18
17) Seuree: Direster of Monetary Researeh, U. 8. Treasury.
18) Searee: Teekmisel Assistant to the Seoretary of the Treasury.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
Two limitations to the absolute aoouraey of the result
givem above should be neted: First, no information is available as
to the axtent to which gold available for export may have been in-
ereased through the surrender to the government cf private hoards, in-
eluding that of the Imperial Pamily, and the extent to whioh such
de-hoarding may have caused the aotual figures to exoeed the quoted
ostimate of * 100,000,000. Second, it seems likely that there may
develop a substantial export of what might be oalled Japenese capital
assets in the form of art and other objeots during the coming year
whish, in the aggregate might be expeoted materially to inorease the
export balanee. Although the sale abroad of suoh objeots would un-
doubtedly be resisted as long as possible, as an alternative to the
collapee of the nation's position in world trade and its consequent
inability longer to proseoute the Chinese venture, it is not unreason-
able to expeet that such a step might be takem. It is impossible to
guess the value, in terms of foreign exchange, of such exportable
objests.
Ability to borrow:
Many writers on the subjeot of Japan's economio position
have emphasisod the ability of Japan to finanee her venture on the
mainlmd without heving recourse to foreign loans, and it is set forth
as evidenee of the inherent strength of the Japanese esonomy. All of
this is sememhat remimiseent of the legend of the fox and the sour
grapes.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
22
In this commeotion, the following authoritative statement is
of interest, "The foreign exshange situation beeeme so aoute during the
last half of the year that the majority of merican firms exporting to
Japen refused to eonsider new business exeept on the basis of an irrevo-
eable letter of oredit confirmed by an Ameriean bank. There was a fur-
ther aoeumulation of frosen funds of Amerioan firms operating in Japan
during 1939"19
Invisible items in the balance ef international payments, which
showed a net oredit in 1934 (latest year for whioh data are available) of
approximately * 350,000,000 are considered to be negligible at thie time.
Tourist expenditures within Japan are probably very amall, shipping re-
ssipts from abroad are prastically eliminated because of the occupation
of ell faoilities within the yen bloc area, and other souroes have been
redused or wiped out.
Thus it appears that oredits in any substantial amount are not
available to Japan. Long term unesoured oredits have not been avuilable
fer seme time. It is rumored that there is a general move on the part
of large Amerioan banks to re-examine their whole position with respeot
to eredits to Japen, ineluding short term commeroial oredits, many have
already redused their eowmitments, and the only new oredits that are be-
ing epemed fer Japenese importers are anall in anount and are granted by
the experters themselves, partieularly those exporting cotton and steel.
19) Souree: "Ammual Beonomic Review of Japan, 1939", U. S. Department of
Gemmeroe.
Note alse in this esmmestion Amerieen Consulate, Tokyo, memorandum No. 631,
Pebruary 23, 19s0: "Perd (moter company) has just been advimed by the
autherities that in ssserdense with govermmemt polieies no further impert
pemmits will be issmed, indieating at the same time that the anti-Japamese
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
23
Gemelusion:
Japen's total gold and liquid foreign exohange resouroes (in-
eluding readily salable Amerieen seourities) are about equal to the ad-
verse balanee of international payments whioh she will have to cover
before the end of the ourrent year. She is unable to borrow in terms
of foreign exohange, certainly she cannot borrow dollars, to any sub-
stantiel amount. No information is available as to the amount of ster-
ling whioh, for political reasons, my hereafter be made available to
her, but the adverse effeot whioh such a loan might have on the dollar-
pound oross rate would probably limit its amount. It must be emphasised
that what has been contemplated is the complete exhaustion of all assets
capable of being converted into foreign exohange to balance the debit in
international payments. Such exhaustion, or even its near approaoh, would
imply sueh a denuding of the national economy as might cause serious re-
pereussions on domestio ocnditions oven before the point of complete ex-
haustion is reaohed.
feeling in the United States prevented them from giving any special con-
sideration to merioan organisations. As a result of this the plant will
elose down at the end of February. All the personnel except those neces-
sary for a skeleton organisation have been notified of their disoharge....
... The Ford Company has up to date been able to remit its dividends to
the United States. Ite imports have been paid for within a fow months
frem the time they left the United States and are now paid up. (Ineidental-
ly, part of the suesess the Ford Cempany has had in renitting dividends
to the Umited States 1s believed to be due to its purohase of * 1,000,000
of Japamese war bends in Deeember 1937. The purohace was made for tis
purpese of arousing a aympathetie attitude from the Japanese autharities
and the attemps wae sussessful.)"
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
a
DOMBSTIC FINANCE
While the majority of finansial statisties indioate a high
degree of internal prosperity and business astivity throughout Japen
during 1939, it is beceming inereasingly obvious that the finmelal
strusture of the natien is being weakened by the continual strain of
mesting the costs of the eampaign in Chine. At the end of 1939 the
matienal debt of the country was slightly more than twiee as great
as in Jume 1937, and if the ourrent defioits are maintained, the long
term debt will again double at the and of four more years. During the
last half of 1939, there wms a pronounced deoline in the rate of di-
geatiem of mational bonds, during the last quarter of 1939, the Bank
of Japen was foroed to purohase over one-half of the total national
bonds iesoed.
The finaneing of the 1939-1940 budget was aocomplished to
the extent of 56% through the issuanee of national bonds, the total
1ssmed during the year mounting to * 5,281,000,000 as compared with
4.330,000,000 in 1938. The visible absorption rate was somewhat
higher then im the previoue year, advanoing from 874 per eent to 89.2
per sent, however, the rate fell from l0 per cent during the first
half of the year, to approximately 77 per cent during the July-Deosmber
period of 1939. As probable issues of bonds during 1940 are estimated
at & 5,800,000,000 scme coneerm is felt in the Finanee Ministry regarding
the ability of the ecomemy to abeerb them. Finanee Ministry ofrieiale
have repeatedly issmed statements to the effest that the Gorerament will
met resert to esmpulsion to require benks to purshase new issues but
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
25
sueh steps may beeone necesmary if the hoavy expenses in connection
with the military campaign in China are maintained at present levels.
The large bond issues of the year resulted in a further in-
orease in the national debt of : 5.297,000,000, the total outstending
long-term internal indebtedness of the nation amounting to * 21,520,000,000
at the ond of 1939.
Tho budget, just approved by the Diet, for the fisoal year
1940-1941, tota11ing * 10.633,000,000 is the largest in the nation's
history, and represente an inerease of more than & billion yen over
that of the preceding year, it inoludes some * 4,400,000,000 for mil1-
tary expenditures in oonneotion with the China Inoident. Thie budget
is nearly five times as great as in 1936. in spite of the size of the
budget as approved, the Chairman of the Judget Committee of the lower
house of the iet, estimated that Government expenditures will approxi-
mate * 15,000,000,000, as the military authorities are reported to have
drafted a five-year repleniahment program to cost * 6,000,000,000.
The necessity of obtaining additional revenue and the desire
for a more simplified and flexible tax oyatem resulted in the complete
revision of the system. All olasses will share in the increased tax
burdem whieh will produoe mome * 400,000,000 of additional revenue in
the next fisoal year 20
Inflatiom:
2
It appears that inflation in Japan is getting out of hand.
A great inerease in the monetary means of payment has been umaccompemied
by amy correspending inerease in the volume of goods to be seld -- the
20) All data queted here is derived frem "Ammual Eecnomie Reviow of
Japan, 1959" - U. 8. Departmmt of Gemmeree.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
26
elassioal definition of inflation. The steady expemsion of the menmt
of paper ourremoy in siroulation is shown in the following table:
Table 7
1939 Pebruary
¥2,127,544,000
March
2,1149,089,000
Apr1l
2,148,178.000
May
2,105,639.000
June
2.340,284.000
July
2,286,831,000
August
2,371,720,000
September
2.405.798,000
Ostober
2,554,070,000
Novenber
2,671,617,000
Rising commodity prices, the sluggish trend of ciroulstion
of the large sums paid to war industries, inoreased prosperity in
rural seetions, and en inoreased tendenoy towards cash transactione
resulted in m umpresedented demand for ciroulating media, particularly
@uring the last half of the year. The average daily note issue of the
Bank of Japen was reported at * 2,374,000,000 oompared with * 1,919,000,000
during 1938. During Ootober the tax free limit of the Bank of Japan
of  2,701,000,000 was exeeeded by more than * 100,000,000 for the
firet time sinse the new limit was established on April 1, 1939. On
December 30, when the total note issue reached a record high of
3,817,752,000, the exeess above the logal limit was more than one
Mllion yom.
21) Souree: The Departmemt of Finanee, Tokyo.
22) The Benk of Japen is authorised by law to issus ourreney to the
fall extent of its gold reserve (the reserve sontains no silver); to
the extent of 8 2,200,000,000 againet gevernment bonds and ether ap-
preved sseurities: the Bank may, in cass of necessity, issus notes in
emeess of the preseribed limit with the sanction of the Pinsase Minister.
and by paying à tax of  per year, if the exeese issue is outstamding
more than firteem daye.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
27
In additiem to the airoulation within Japem of the offieially
resegnised eurreney issues, there are several irredeemable ourreneies
eireulating in Japenese controlled areas of Chine, more or less related
te, or seoured on yen; the inflation of this ourreney is oontinuous. The
total moumt of sueh surreney now issued by the Federal Reserve Bank at
Peiping and by the Mengehiang Bank of issue is said now to exssed some
400,000,000. Sinee North China's markotable produotion is now maller
than in pre-war times, and as the pre-war oiroulatien in the aree was
emly aroumd Ch. $ 350,000,000, the inflationary character of this note
eiroulation is apparent, partioularly when it is realized that, to it,
must be added an mount for the siroulation of the Hua Haing Bank in
Shanghai and for the so-ealled "military notes" for whioh no accurate
data are available. 23
The Hua Hsing Bank was rumored to be purohasing gold bare in
Shenghai Maroh 15, 1940. If the rumor is correot, there would seem
to be mound justifieation for the polioy of issuing paper ourrenoy in
ualimited quantities if it oan be oonverted into gold, but it hardly
seems reasonable that the rumor is to be oredited.
Prieee:
In an offert to combat inordinate price rises, a Contral
Priee Commissiom, set up in 1938, has fixed the prioes for numerous ar
tieles. Great importemee is given to the control of priees in view ef
the bearing priees have on the maintonanse of the yen exohange rate, the
expemaiem of preduetivity md export trade, as well as on the eost of liv
ing. The measures have broken dowm as the Gevernment is foreed constemtly
3) Seuree: "Far Lastera Survey", Mareh 13, 1940, p. 65.
) Seuree: Ameriemn Conmslate Goneral, Shanghai.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
28
te revise upward the so-oalled "fixed" prioes. It is reported that "in
the Tokyo aree alone, the economio polioe last year disoovered 200,000
vielations of the price control regulations. These were not all petty
eases, manufacturers break the law to got copper, rubber, metals and
in the following tables
Table 8
Indices of Prices
Wholesale
Clothing28
Priees
Prioes
1931 = 100
1914=100
1914=100
1914=100
1939
January
231.0
211
197
219
February
235.2
214
198
226
March
235.7
213
200
227
April
236.5
217
202
230
May
239.2
221
204
231
June
240.9
221
205
233
July
239.7
221
209
233
August
22.6
223
212
233
September
251.8
232
218
235
Ostober
252.0
235
219
240
November
236
232
241
1937 Avorage
for cemparison
206.0
174
181
168
25)
Seurse: Nugh Byas, New York Times, Maroh 24, 1940.
26
Oriomtal Eeonomist Index
Compiled by the Bank of Japan
28)
Compiled by the Tokyo Asahi Press
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
28a
Currency in
Index
Circulation
Numbers
Billions of Yen
300
3.5
290
3.4
280
3.3
270
3.2
260
3.1
250
3.0
240
2.9
230
2.8
220
2.7
210
2.6
200
2.5
190
2.4
180
2.3
170
2.2
Currency
in
circulatin
160
2.1
150
2.
San. 1939
Feb.
March
Apr
May
June
July
Aug
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
1937 Arerage
for comperison.
The Course of Inflation in Japan during 1939.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
8
Tekyo whelesale priees have inereased more than 15 per cent
Again in Februmry, priees in Tokyo skyroebeted in spite of the Govern-
momt's efforts to keep them within official limits. Fuel and light
cests shet up 17 per sent in February alone, ascording to the statistioal
report of the Tokyo munisipality. Food and drinks rose 7.l per cent,
elething 5.6 per cent, household utensils 5.1 per cent, and miseellaneous
artieles 3.5 per eent. The uptrend became so obvious that the Minister
of Finmnee was foreed to admit in the Het that efforts to ourb the in-
flation "have not been completely suesessful". 30
There are waves of hoarding of essential commodities, and
farmers are reluetant to sell their produes. The August rice orop in
Koree hes beem eut drastieally by the most severe drought in over 90
Sigmifioantly, January foreim trade returne cmit statistios of rice
isperts. 2 Chinese sourees, however, olaim that after prolonged nego-
tiatiems, it was arranged for Korea to ship Japan 200,000 tons of rice
after November 1, 1939, but only in exohange for corresponding quentities
of wheat and barley. Thereupon Korea, up to the middle of February 1940
shipped to Japen some 30,000 tons of rioe, but Japan failed to return
the premised barley and mheat. Consequently the grain shortage in Korea
9) Zaares: Mrestor of Memetary Research, U. S. Treasury Dept.
31) Seuree: Déreeter ef Memetary Ressareh, U. S. Treasury Dept.
33) Seures: "The Ohime Weekly Review", Shenghai, Maroh 2, 1940
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
30
There is also developing & serious seareity of consumer goeds.
"The rieh sanmot get gasoline freely for their ears, or poor keroseme for
their oil stoves, factories cannot freely get coal for their furnases nor
the villagors chareeal for their brasiers. The infent mortality rate is
shoekingly high and the milk supply far below the needs of & growing na-
tien, yet milk is being made into butter and exported to bring in foreiga
ourremey. Copper soins are being withdrawn from oiroulation. To take
major industrial materials only, there is a shertage of coal, iron, tim-
ber, oement, chemieals, shemical fertilisers, drugs, pulp, wood, leather,
cottan, earbide and rubber." 34
Attention is called, also, to the fact that the steady rise in
the priee level in Japan, in relation to world-wide prices whioh have
remained stable or deelined, is serving to deprive Japan of mueh of her
favrorable cempetitive position in world marksts.
It is e charaeteristie phenomemon of inflations that their pro-
sess is eumulatives rising priees engender loss of oonfidence, a flight
from eash, measures to control prices, further loss of confidemce with the
progressive breaksowm of priee control measures, the develepment of "black"
markets, and efforts to conrert eash into tangibles, becoming more and more
freasied, despite more and more drastio control measures, all contribute
to the dewmward spirel. Eash of these factors is present in the ourrent
Japasese positien whieh appears to be besoming rapidly more exigent.
Cemoiusiem:
Japem is fasing a breakdemm of her entire domestie finemsial
erganisatien, with what has come te be deseribed as a "Germen" inflatien.
3h) Souree: Hugh Byas, Now Yerk Times, Mareh 4, 1940
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
POLITICAL
That there may be developing some laek of wmanimity within the
Japamese politieal strusture is indieated by straws in the wind. These
are mentioned here beeause of the elose relationship whish always exists
between eoomomio and political phenomene, and besause, given the degres
of esonomie diesquilibrium whioh this study has already demonstrated, re-
peroussions upon the purely politieal organism may eventuate.
Mr. X. Obata of the Ameriean Affairs Seotion of the Japanese
Fereign Offiee is quoted as having said to Mr. Hallett Abend on January 6,
1940, "The loud mouthed and vielent aeting seotion of the Army is still
in somtrol. The Japanese moderates do not dare to advocate nor to at-
tempt to carry out polieies too muoh in opposition to this violent and
vocel group, for if we did there might easily be nnother February up-
rising in Tokyo."
Admiral Nomura, former Foreign Minister, speaking of the Chêna
confliet, said to the Ameriean Coumsellor of Embassy in Tokyo that "The
Japamese people are today just beginning to ask themselves the question
whother the sasrifiees were worth the candlo".
It is reperted by the meriean Consulate General in Tokyo that
a feeling of disappointment is developing in business and finaneial sir-
eles that the mew Cabimet has net taken more definite steps to cope with
esenemie and finemeial problems. The Goverment's ettitude tomard price
control and mometery pelieies as diselosed by interpellations does not
indieate that adequate meesures will be taken to regulate the supply and
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
2
demend of commodities and to aheek the inflationary trend, assording to
views expressed by business and finaneial interests.
Thus, there are signe of approaching political orisis within
Japen. There are outbursts in a nermally docile press, an expulsion from
the Diet for too outspoken oriticims, flagrant and widespread disebe-
diemee of the coonomie control laws. There are said to be three import-
amt groups struggling for ultimate control of Japan's polioy,- the
business mem who want pease, those who would continus the fight cn a
"hely war" basis, and those who would continue the fight for the sake
of suoh indemmity as they may yet hope to colleot. The resulting tur-
moil is moving in the direetion of a first class orisis, whioh will
offer an exeellent opportunity for a military coup and oreation of en
army dietatorship.
Fereign politieal - Wetherlands Indies:
The demuneiation of the trade sgreement between Japan and the
Wetherlande by Japan has been deslared by the Poreign Office to have no
politieal significanee. Recent oireumstances have, however, tanded to
arouse espesial interest in the move. On February 1, Mr. Arita made
kmomm to the Diet Japan's desire to maintain, with regard to the South
Seas regions, a "relatiomship of co-existence and co-prosperity through
ceenemie seeperatiem and collaboration in the development of mutual re-
seurses". On February 8 a Japenese Wavy spokessan in Toxyo was quoted in
press dispatahee as stating that the Japanese Navy's so-called "south-
ward poliey" of expamsiom was economie in nature. On the seme day, the
Foreign Nisister stated, in amswer to a question in a sommittes of the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
33
DMet that esomemie expansion by Japen in the Netherlands Indies, India,
the Philippines, eto., was essential, adding that Japan would weloome
mem-aggression treaties to cover those regions, but that Japen's in-
temtioms in proposing sueh treaties would probably be misoonstrued by
Conelusiom:
The hint of politieal stross, coupled with soonomic necessity
and the fact that the Japamese Wavy is not oommitted in the Chine con-
fliet, makes it appear at least possible that some additional foreign
adventure may be brewing, on the historio plan of diverting the mind
of the people from the domestio situation by committing them to foreign
disturbanee.
35) Seuree: Infermatiom Series No. 66a, U. 3. Treasury, February 10, 1940.
strietly cemfidsmtial.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
EMBARGO
There is much disoussion of the desirability of applying an
ambargo on all exports to Japam from the United States as a means of
bringing to a close the sonfliet in China, demonstrating Amerioan die-
pleasure with tacties of national territorial aggrandisement through
military oonquest, and preventing the new order in East Asia from being
detrimental to meriean interests there.
During 1938, Japan derived from the United States 90 per cent
of her imperts of sorap iron and steel, 66 per oent of her imports of
oil and gasoline, 77 per cent of her imports of airplanes and parte,
65 per eemt of her imports of automobiles and parts, 91 per cent of
her imported copper nd 35 per cent of her imports of cotton. The United
States took 16 per oent of all Japn's exports, and provided her with
33 por omt of her total imports. 36
Since the outbreak of the European war, the United States has
besome more important in Japan's foreign trade. We now take L42 per cent
of Japem's total experts to foreign exahange areas, and supply Japan with
46 per cent of ber purohases in foreign exohange areas. A year ago, with
respeet to Japenese trade with foreign exohange areas, the peroentages
wore 29 and 44 respeotively. 37
Germeny's trade with the Far East is rising from its October
alwmp, despite the war in Europe and the Allied blookade. Goods of high
value ad mall sise are pouring in via the Trens-Siberian railway, and
the Allies (apparemtly by arrengement) semmingly no longer bloek the
shipmemt te Japem of bulky German machimery. Near the end of January
36) Cempiled frem Department of Gommerse figures.
37) Dai ted States Treasury
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
35
the "Wejima Maru" brought 1,700 tons of Cermen mashinery to Dairem.
Other shipmeats on umidentified ressels are reported to be on the way.
aad Japenese shipping firms are ordering veasels to pick up Japan-bound
cargeee of Germem ships strended in the Orient. 38
A spesial statement prepared for the North Amerioan Newspaper
Allianee by Admiral Kiehisaburo Nomura contains the following paragraph:
"Embargo or a threat of embargo, when employed as an instrument of nation-
al poliey by a great power with tremendous resourees against a resouros-
lese nation, is as potent and dangerous as war or a threat of war. We
do not live in Utopie. Ne live in a hard world where wars and strife
still remain potentialities whioh must be taken into account in the
Admiral Yomai, present Premier, is reported to have told a
Parliementary Budget Committee on Maroh 23, 1940 that a complete United
States trade embargo against Japan would cause an extremely grave situa-
tion and that if either side "ade a mistake" in this connection, it
would be natural if a erisis followed.
Comelusiom:
The applieatiem of en mbargo against Japan should be eare-
fully eemsidered, and its possible accomplishments and failures carefully
weighed. Clearly, if the United States were to emhargo exparts to Japen,
the possible loss of trade would thereafter no longer be a deterrest to
Japemese aggressien. Sueh aetion would tend to kill off the remaining
liberal semtiment is Japem and might fores her wholly into the arms ef
Germemy and Russia. Thereafter, the full foroe of the jingo element in
38) Seurew: WhaleyeKaten Foreign Serviee, Washingten, D. 0.
39) Publiahed in the Washingtom Star, Mareh 37. 1940
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.89)
36
CONFIDENTIAL
t Army, freed of restraint, would be umleashed in all ite fury, re-
1
4
 dless of possible consequenees, against the Western Powers. The
y remmining courses then open to the United States would be to bow
b fore the storm and abandon its intereste in the Westerm Pacifie, or
at jept immediate armed eonfliet.
Further, it is necessary to be very cautious in aseepting
0
t, idea that unilateral motion by this country would be absolutely
e feetive. A careful study of all other possible sourees of strategie
 terials available to Japan would have to be made first, and some doubt
r mains as to the degree of so-operation which would be given in such
• mat by eertain of the European belligerents, notably Great Britain.
1
Purely finanoial sanotions would be effeotive so long as
ia
J pan's possible allies remain "have not" nations. Means are already
a milable whereby all of Japan's dollar assete could be so tied up as
7
1 make them of no use to her. Again, however, given time and trensport
1 eilities, Japen may find means of providing needed materials by use
(some system of barter similar to that whioh enabled Germany to exist
二
pi
I id to build up her fighting forees without money which she sould use
1 : foreige markets.
1
k
CONFIDENTIAL
J

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
37
OF ECOMCMIC STULIES
In defersnee to Charles d'Avenant who semposed the paragraph
appearing om the first page of this study, we must beware of eaying that
preblems of finance and economics are new aspeets of war. But it is
legitimate to suppose that he would be surprised if he returned to ob-
serve the gigentie proportions to whioh the taek of supplying the Army
has growm, and that he did not anticipate, when he wrote, a time when
the cost of war would be more in a week than the ontire annual ineome
of the England of his day.
The esomomie aspeots of "measures short of war" and of aotual
warfare are not so thrilling as the actual movement of troops, but it
is becoming e commonplace nowadays that wars are won and lost in the
workshop rather than om the battlefield. The present European confliot
is the first in the world's history whioh has been recognised, from its
first day, to be a struggle of mobilised industrial power as woll as of
trained manpower.
For years the nations of the world have been waging pease with
all the esonemie weapons at their command, each, in the effort to in-
ereass its trade at the expemse of its ccmpetitors, has takn measures
whieh sorved to augssnt the stresses whish, one after another, led to
the opeming of astual warfare. Throughout the world, naticns in lese
faverable esmpetitive pesitions, finding themselves deprived of that
degree of eecmemie well-being enjoyed by others, developed the mass
peyehoses whish enabled them to foist upom their peoples the fallaeiess
justifieatiens of aggressive warfare.
In the ecenemie warfare whieh has inereased in intensity.
the astagonists have besn the oppesing systems of eapitaliam and eatareky.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
38
The ramifioations of this warfare transeend the boundaries of areas
wherein armed confliet is normally confined, and the effective range
of its weapone is far greater than that of the world's most potent
artillery.
There are those who, progressing in their studies from front
line combat, to lines of commmication, to matters of supply, to in-
dustrial output of the materials of war, now admit that the study of
economios is not merely a matter of oultural development, but motually
of professional value to the soldier. One step more is needed: a reali-
sation that observed economio phenomena may have their origins anywhere
in the world, and that it is necessary to examine the problem from the
widest possible viewpoint.
The economist may perform three important end valuable services
to the oombat arms: He can assist in evaluating the military potentiali-
ties of possible ememiee in time of peaces he oan mid in proteoting the
home front from the shook of serious sounomio maladjustments mnd the re-
sulting lowered civilien morale; he oen evolve sohemes for dislosating
the soonemio orgemisation of the eneay and so lessen the power of his
combat arms.
Sush econcmie studies should be orgmized to provide the
widest possible range, in order that important reperoussions outside
arbitrarily establiahed geographie areas, and the interplay of sause,
in one arem, and effeot in another, may not bè underestimated.
The carliest indications of potential confliet are to be
found in the statistieal evidenee of esonomio maladjustments. These
may disslese suoh a serieus defieiemey of natural resouroes as to en-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
9
geader an effort to aoquire them by armed foree; they may show an un-
usual colleotion of war reserves; they may shew trade dislocatione and
loss of markets in remoto parts of the world of eush importance to the
leser as to cause hin to fight to recover them.
The dovolopment of Japanese foreign poliey, and her present
position in world affairs is an ample demonstration of the determining
influence of eoonomio factors.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
40
CONCLUSION
There are inoreasing signe of economie strain in Japan. The
war, however, has brought an evanesoent prosperity: the pressure of
population in the rural areas has beem relieved by mobilization and by
the mevemeut of labor into industry, manufacturing is booming despite
a 30 per cent shortage of power40s umemploymont is not a problom; prices
and the oost of living have aavenood. Eut economio troubles are piling
up for the future: a huge and growing internal debt, inflation of the
ourrenoy; the prospeot of runaway prices over-expansion of war industries
at the expense of peace time industry.
Where these dangers are appreciuted, they only strengthen the
41
deternination to puah ahead, everything is being staked on success
Foreign exohange is the waakest point in Japan's economy. She
suffers from oritical deficionoies of supplies essential to the contin-
uance of her war offort and these can only be moquired by expenditures
of foreim ourrenoies. Her war reserves of these stretegic materials
have probably been so depleted by this time that the continuation of
her military pewer depends upon their importation. From date presented
in this study, it appeare that her ultimate resouroes of foreign exohange
will be exhausted this year.
Japen thus faees a hard choiee: Will she abandon the China In-
eident and salvage what she oan from a peace of unoertain prospeots with
a puppet regime? Will she go on to the bitter end with oollapee of her
eeemomy ewalting the eonolusiom? Will she assume that the best defense
1s offense, east the die onse more and try to resusoitate her failing re-
seuress by some further aot of aggression?
T, 0.1., Attaohe Repert, Tok. Pob. 13, 1940, r11e L00-409.
for Apr11 1940.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
4
CONFIDENTIAL
The Japanese payohology is probably ineapable of admitting de-
feat, regardless of how wise suoh a move might appoar to conservative
olemonts.
Similarly, a dogged following of an established plen would
probably appeal less to the majority of influential persons in the Japan-
ese Government than would some highly dramatio move, even though the con-
olusion thereof might be oatastrophio.
The logie of the situation appears therefore, to be on the side
of some further aggressive move,- not because her resouroes are suoh as
to support suoh a more, but beoause of her very weakmesses.
Whatever is to be done, if the polioy adopted is one of action,
must be done soon. The inexorable foroes of economio pressure will
demand an early decision.
Among the dofioienoies of strategio materials, oil appears to
be one of the most oritieal, and the solution of that problem seems to
lie in the area of the most likely probabilities. This points logically
toward the oil of the Netherlends Indies. Were Holland to become em-
breiled in the European war, a Japanese mcve toward the South Paoifio
would seem to be elearly indicated, partioularly if Italy decides to
impede British transit through the Mediterranean.
In such evemt the position of the United States is obvious.
We must ascept the situatiom, or we must prepare to support esonomie
senetions with military foree. Escnomie measures available to the United
States inolude the following: ▲ partial embargo on exporte to Japan to
eever these materials of greatest nessssity and least availability from
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
42
other sourees. This could be followed by a total embargo on all exports
and imports, the latter depriving Japan of exohange wherewith to purehase
materials in other markets. (A restriotion of commeroial oredits would be
meaningless once goods ceased to move as a result of the total embargo.)
Coinoident with and parallel to, or following shortly after, the applica-
tion of mbargo, partial or total, finanoial sanotione might be applied;
these would inolude the lioonsing of all dollar-yen transaotione followed
by refusal to grant licenses for the purohase of yon for any purpose, and
the blooking of all dellar balences of Japanese nationals in this country.
The offieaoy of the embargo is highly doubtful without the full
eo-operation of Britain, financial sanotions would probably be offeotive
though not oonolusive.
At some point, these measures would undoubtedly provoke Japan
to retaliatory measures leading to military activity directed against the
United States.
2nd Liout. Norman E. Towson
M.I. - Reserve
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ISIONOR
TERN AFFAIRS
MAR 26 1940
March 25, 1940.
MR. BERLE
"Warren:
With reference to the photostatic copies
enclosed with FBI's letter of March 18, it
may be observed that copy of an identical
dooument is enclosed with despatch no. 2236,
Peiping, August 31, 1939. The statements
contained in the penultimate paragraph of
FBI's letter also appear in the enclosure
to Peiping's despatch under reference. Much
of the information contained in the documents
concerns matters of common knowledge, and
there is practically nothing that is new or
important.
FE suggests that no further communica-
tion be made to FBI in regard to its letter
under reference.
mmdt.
82m
FE:Balfantine:EAS

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
OOVER
TOR
3
Federal Bureau of Iuvestigation
RECEIVED
&Xnited States Department of Justire
ANTMENT OF STATE
ashington,D.U.
MAR 1 9 1940
March 18, 1940
1940 MAK 21 AM 10 44
tile
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
AND BELORDS
Assistant Secretary of State
Division of
Washington, D. C.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 23 1940
Pertment of State
My dear Mr. Berle:
I am transmitting herewith as of possible interest
to you photostatic copies of a document secured by the San
Francisco Field Office of this Bureau. The confidential
894.50/120
informant who furnished this information has had wide knowl-
edge of political science and states that the information
was obtained by a Chinese who had just returned from Tokyo
during which time he had exceptional opportunity to observe
the political and military trends and in the opinion of the
informant the information appeared to be of considerable
importance since it set forth the pro-Democratic, pro-Axis
and the Neutral groups in Japan and the differences of
opinion among the Army leaders of the Japanese Government.
894.50
A communication which accompanied this document
and which was prepared in China is quoted as follows:
MAR
"These lists of political groupings have been supplied by a
FILED
Chinese who has just returned from visit to Tokyo during
which he had exceptional opportunities for observing political
7 1940
trends. His impression of the economic situation as it
affects hostilities in China is about as follows: The
military leaders now in power representing in general the
extremist viewpoint, are working for a type of totalitarian
organization which mobilizes all national resources under
unified governmental control, primarily directed toward con-
tinued military activity. In so far as they succeed they will
F/A
1

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
Honorable Adolf A. Berle Jr.
-2-
March 18, 1940
probably be able to redu : the Japanese economy to such regi-
mentation as will make F sible continued warfare for some
time. On the other hand, there is growing dissatisfaction
with this tendency in a  ide variety of groups which. from
their varying standpoint. are unwilling to have their private
ambitions or rights so c apletely crushed. The issue turns
upon whether this human hpposition will become sufficiently
articulate, organized, a i courageous to neutralize the
nationalization of mater al wealth. This observer did not
feel competent to expres an opinion as to which of these
would win, beyond statiney that the human factor is becoming
more active than appears on the surface."
n
This informati n is also being furnished to Rear
Admiral Walter S. Anders n. Director of Naval Intelligence
of the Navy Department. nd Colonel E. R. Warner McCabe,
Assistant Chief of Staff of the War Department.
Sincerely yours,
1. re. dove
Enclosures

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
Differeseee of opinim on foréign polleiee
A. Pre-Domeerae iee group
1..若規禮次郎
Advieer to Minseite, the bággest party in Jasan.
2.吉田茂
Somet iser ambaseador to London
3.平宫内大臣
Mimieter to the reyal family
重光葵大使
4. zhigemitn
New ambessador to London
汤浅内大臣
5. Y
Mimister to the emperor
牧野仲顯伯爵
6. Makino
Chief attendamee to the emperor
廣田弘毅
7. K. Miseta
Sometimee foreigm minieter and premir of government
有田外務大臣
8. H. Arita
Now foreign minieter
9.8.宇垣大將派
B. Fro-Axie gromp
扳垣陸軍大臣
1. Itagaki and mie grouj
Bow war minieter
白、烏駐意大使
2. Shiratori
Ambaseador to Rome
大島駐德大使
3. Ochiza
Ambassador to Berlin
真崎大将
4. Ggmeral Masaki
票原外務臣東亞局長
5. Driher
Direeter of Aeiatie Bureau of the foreign office
6..河相達夫外務省情報部長
Spokesman of the foreiga office
7.5.本多熊太郎

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.82)
-8-
() 0. .荒木文部大臣
Minister of esacation
(9) 9.  L 小大將
Misister of Celonial Geveramens
C.Semtral
柳川平助興亞院總務長官
1. I. Y
Koad of she Koaia ad hie group
近衛公爵
2. Primee Konce ad i gmy fellewere
En-Irenier of goverasent
3. some of the leading flaamoiere
池田成彬
a. s. Imeda
Advicer to the government vnd representative a the
Mitau1
鄉誠之助男爵
b. s. So
Advieer to the gevernment and refresentative ef the
naticaal industril and oemsereial asscciaséeas.
..入
Mead of Japamese matienal bank
.B. - a. Mest of these leading rinameie:s are Fro-Britain.
b. Prince Konoe ie too fsmcus for fro-Amerieam sestimems.
II. Differences cf opinion among the army leadere
a. Ceneral Minasi and Poramoni grous 充 制 派
1. Gl Pr1 寺内大將
2.0ral Ma南大將朝鮮總督
Governor of Korea
3. Gnrl 杉山大将
4. It. Ganozal Xita 喜多中將
5. Major Comeral Domote 根本少將
6. Wajor Gurni Ka 影佐少将
今井大佐軍部支那課長
7. Comemel Imal
Koed ef Chim Laroau of the aray
0.Ma 武藤少將
D. Gamoral Itagaks sroup
1. .  1 谷中将
2. I8. GaneznI Doiharn 土肥原中將

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.82)
大近通真少將
4. Beme of the impertant affleere of the Tar ailitery
Boutral
2.西尾教育總監)
2. 参謀次長(？)
. Gemeral Araki mad Hesaki greup
2.  (荒木真夫大將
2.(真崎大将
8. Le. a) (柳奥亞院长官)
.(将
Dareeter of military Bureau of army uffice
0(條英机中将亢空的)
Read ef the military aviatia orrrde
. Gemeral Keise group
2. .  安藤中将華南日軍司令官
heso troop in Sputh ahina.
commemder in chiof
.（都甲）中佐参謀本部支課次
三長官議
1.
1.陸軍大臣
(极垣中特)
(西尾大将)
教育總监
參謀次長？
8.
1

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.85)
Daffermess of epinien emeny the arny leaders.
A. Tase group takes ite name of "Jantrol" from ite determinatian to bring
the whole aray, espeelally the youmger affiours, unader a umified centrel.
This sreu out of several essurranees by whiah amall grouye of suberdsdates
took aotian comaitting the mhule any wad matsan. It tande to be
relatively mederate and camservative.
B. These wore eriginally yeunger offcere in the Xuantang aray, whe sreated
the Mkden Incident and the Mandiaku regine. They are atremint in their
Dine poliey, pre-ade, mad are the supporters as Teng uhing wel. they
aim te effest the settl ement in hime along the gameral lines of Manahuiose.
D. this group are respansible for the finance of Fehruary 26, 1836, 1n which
revolt they were overeame ty the nembers of greup A. Sinee then, they have
besame sumembat independest and pro-desooraedes, and advosate direst
negotiatiems t th the mmtiumal zoverment of Thime.
Is a group which split amay fram 3 and is more ar lesn Ln eympathy with D.
Ratber unimportaat.
F. These thres army thiefs virtually oantral the military pullay of the oomtry.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.90)
miffereneee of opinim en foreign jolieice
A. Pre-Bemeerae iee group
1..若規禮次郎
Advieer to Minseite, the bággest party in Japaa.
2..吉田茂
somet imer ambaseador to London
3.  平宫内大臣
Mimieter to the reyal family
重光葵大使
4. Shigemitoa
New ambassader to Lond on
汤浅内大臣
5. Yeaea
Mimister to the emperer
牧野仲顯伯爵
6. Makino
Chief attendamee te the emperor
Sometimee ferigm minieter and premier of government
有田外務大臣
8. H. Arita
Dow foreign mimister
0..宇垣大將派
B. Pre-Axie gromp
扳垣陸軍大臣
1. Itagaki and min gronj
Bow war minieter
白、烏駐意大使
2. Shiratori
Ambaseador to Rome
大島駐德大使
3. Oshiza
Ambassader to Berlin
真崎大將
4. Ggmeral Masaki
票原外務臣東亞局長
5. Drihars
Direeter of Asiatie Bareau of the fereign effice
.2.河相達夫外務省情報部長
Spokesman of the foreiga ofriee
.本多熊太郎

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.81)
(9) 0. . 荒本文部大臣
Minister of ecacstien
(7 ) 9. a L 小大將
Misister of Selesial Geveramess
C.Seutral
1..柳川平助興亞院總務長官
Kead ef she Koala and hie groap
近衡公爵
2. Primee Konee d i m followere
Rk-kremier ef goverasent
3. some of the leading flaameiere
池田成彬
Advieer to the coverament sad reprecentasive  the
Miteni
鄉誠之助男爵
b. z. 0o
Advieer to the gevernment and representative ef the
naticeal ladustrial and cemsereial asscsiaéess.
.. nd
城豐入印
Yead of Jasese matisnal bnk
I.B. - a. Mest of there leading finameiere are Fre-Britata.
b. Prince Konoe is tes fascus fer Fre-Amerieam eeatimest.
II. Differemces cf epiaion asong the aray leadere
a. Geaeral Minami and Peramohi grous 統 制 派
1. Gl P 寺内大將
2. 00ra 1 南大將朝鮮總督
Geverner of Leres
3. Gnral 杉山大将
4. Ln. 0amesal xita 喜多中將
5. Major Goneral Demote 根本少將
6.Ma n L 影佐少将
今井大佐軍部支那課長
7. Comemel Imal
Zosd of Chim Lareau of the arsy
0.  武藤少將
b.-Samoral Itagaki sroup
2. . 1 谷中将
2..土原中将

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.74)
-8-
大近通真少將
 s et e the Tay
Sostral
.(西尾教育總監
2. 参謀次長？
 ta nd ku
2.（木真夫人特
2.真崎大
3.L.i(
 of milry  of  
.机
B. Gmerai Beise grp
通参
1.陸軍大臣
(极中)
. 教育總监
(大)
參謀次是？
8.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.79)
i. Dasserme es epi ng the ay laders.
A. tase roup takes Ite mme of "Jantral" sram ste dotemduatim toe tring
the whole aray, espealally the yomger asfioere, under a uairted central.
This sr s s ssrel urroes by mhi mll roue as suberdes
took astian samsitsing the whale arny und matian. It tande to be
relatively mederate end emservative.
B. these were eriginally yonger asrleare ia the Xunatng aay, the sreated
the Mukden Ineident and thie Manesakau regine. Thay are astrentnte in thair
Rine polley, preade, and are the auportere af Tang thing we. thay
aim to affeet the settl ament in chime alang the gameral linen of Manakuse.
D. this group are respamsible for the finance of Pehruary 26, 1sse, in mhich
Pevolt thay were overeeme hy the membere as group A. Sinee then, thay have
negotiatiome  th the mational govermnt of Chine.
a. Is a group which aplit mmay fran 3 mnd is more ar lesn in syapathy with D.
Ratber umimporteat.
P. These three ary chiefs virtually cantral the military pulley of the comtry.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
Maroh 20, 1940
My dear Mr. Hoover:
There has been reoeived your letter of Maroh 18,
1940 enolosing as of poesible interest photostatio
894.50/120
copies of a document concerning economic conditions in
Japan prooured by the San Francisco Field Office of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. I note that the same
1nformation has also been furnished to Rear Admiral
Walter S. Anderson and Colonel E. R. Warner MoCabe.
Your oourtesy in sending me this information 1s much
appreclated.
Sinoerely yours,
Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistan% Secretary
J. Eagar Hoover, Esquire,
Direotor, Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justioe,
A true copy of
fo7.
Washington, D. C.
mah.
A-B:FW:LBH:SS

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
ITOF STATE
EASTERN AFFAIRS
Apri1 15, 1940
67-8.mya.
tyo'B despatch no. 4556, March 4, 1940,
tled "Growing shortages in basic commodities
"daily necessities".
The Embassy here continues its series of
preliminary sketches with regard to economic
nd social conditions in Japan. In the present
despatoh the Embassy points out that there are
widespread and intricate evasions of price
control in Japan consequent upon serious
ahortages in basic commodities and also in
daily consumption necessities. The Embassy also
points out that there is no doubt that the
productive mechanism of Japan has been expanded
in the last two years, and that the expanded
facilities would not be wiped out even should
Japan go through an economic collapse. The
Embassy makes note, in passing, of the great
difficulty of getting factual and statistical
information with regard to Japanese economics
under present conditions.
MR. 1
894.50/121
A
CC
FE:Coville:HJN

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.92)
9352
RETHEVFOREIGN SERVICE
T OF OF ATHE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
227
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 4, 1940.
No. 4556.
SUBJECT:
GROWING SHORTAGES IN BASIC COMIODITIES AND
DAILY NECESSITIES.
C
Division of
TERIRS
COPYES SENT TO
894.50
AFTER
anortmon! of Srate
8
Bohy in FE
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
A-M/C
Bor bihrbuaon-Chess
No
50
BECORUING DESE
IVISION OF
fl
(iule
In U.S.A.
To
For
oNtthen
2
MID
Conmence (in comf dener)
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER 
INTERNATIONAL  AFFAIRS
EBC
APR 2A 1940
MAY141940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MR. 
MAY 1 6 1940
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
With this despatch I have the honor to continue the
February 15, 1940, discussing some of the problems which
Japan faces in its present economic condition. These
F/FG
problems are daily becoming more acute and are the sub-
jeot of considerable discussion not only in newspapers
colloquialism
4

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
-2~
nai nai zukushi", meaning literally "a lack of everything",
is widely used to describe the situation in which it is
becoming progressively more difficult to obtain basic com-
modities and daily necessities.
As in all economic phenomena, there appear in this in-
stance many causes. Among the more important there is to be
noted first of all a net decrease in the available stocks of
consumer commodities, not only in Japan itself but throughout
what is called the "Yen Bloc Area". The recent expansion of
industry in Japan has been, owing to the emphasis on a wartime
economy, largely effected in munition industries and closely
related lines of endeavor. Obviously, production of munitions
is not, in an economic sense, productive of wealth, but
rather represents consumption of available goods. Therefore,
emphasis on industries of this type tends to decrease the
productive efficiency of all other industries, particularly
through the priority given to munition industries to utilize
available labor and raw material supplies. Even in normal
times emphasis on expansion of industries of this type would
result in a depletion of the stocks of materials available
for ordinary industry. This general trend has been serious-
ly aggravated by the officially-sponsored attempt to achieve
Japan's independence in the so-called heavy industries,
uch as machine tools, heavy chemicals, petroleum refining
and coal liquefaction. To accomplish this end the Government
has, in addition to its abnormally heavy expenditures for
military supplies, made available large sums of money to
encourage development of those industries. This has resulted
1n

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
in a large increase in the purchasing power of the
people in general. The Chugai, January 7, 1940, is
the authority for the statement that on December 31,
1939, Bank of Japan notes in circulation exceeded
Yen 3,810,000,000, said to be Yen 1,000,000,000 more
than the amount in circulation on the corresponding date
of the preceding year. Concurrently, the Government
has followed a policy of price control in an endeavor
to prevent serious inflation. These factors have re-
sulted in such undesirable practices as hoarding and
"bootleg" transactions involving practically all com-
modities.
In spite of the Government's policy, prices have
not been maintained without marked fluctuation but have
shown a steady rise. On September 18 last the Government
issued a decree stating that from that day on prices in
the great majority of comnodities were not to be increased.
This gave further impetus to the practice of illegal trans-
actions. High prices in daily necessities were, until
last fall, largely limited to items of wearing apparel,
but following the shortage of rice, foodstuffs in general,
including rice, meat, fresh vegetables, fish, etc., began
to rise appreciably. The increased cost of living has out-
stripped the wage increases of the lower salaried groups
and has become a very serious problem.
A short review of some of the methods of illegal trans-
actions which are widely practiced and which have been the
topio of considerable discussion in the vernacular press
recently may not be uninteresting. The Asahi on February 26,
1940,

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
1940, lists some fourteen methods:
1. Goods having fixed official prices are
sold only in combination with articles
having no fixed price; for example, pur-
chase of kerosene must be accompanied by
purchase of some other expensive article,
the price of which is not officially controlled.
2. Excessive charges are made for delivery serv-
ices.
3. The prospective buyer places a deposit for
the purchase of certain commodities and,
after deliberately forfeiting his deposit,
concludes a new contract with the seller at
the official price.
4. nder a system of barter, commodities having
no official quotation are exchanged for
articles the price of which is controlled
by the Government.
5. Deliberate bribery.
6. Excessive charges for the workmanship in-
volved in minor processing of commodities.
7. The trade names of certain commodities are
changed to avoid official prices.
8. Obligations of the seller are transferred,
in some instances, to the purchaser.
9. Adulteration of the commodity or delivery
of only part of the amount officially pur-
chased.
10. Some purchase contracts include transporta-
tion charges, whereas delivery is only made
to the nearest shipping point.
11. Articles are purchased and slightly used,
after which they are transferred to a third
person at a higher cost.
12. The same article may be the subject of two or
more paper transactions before actually pur-
chased by the buyer, resulting ultimately in
a price above that legally allowed.
13. Similar to the above, contracts are sometimes
made among three people, with one merely act-
ing as a dummy.
14.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
l4. The buyer purposely loses in the presence
of the seller a certain sum of money which
is immediately taken to the nearest police
station and later claimed by the buyer who,
conformably with Japanese practice, pays to
the seller ten per cent of the money which he
"lost".
As it has become increasingly evident that the "low
price policy" which has been followed by the recent Cabinets
is incompatible with the Government's grandiose plans for
the expansion of industrial productivity, criticism has
mounted in volume. The Cabinet has recently announced a
plan to make the price control agency directly responsible
to the Cabinet, rather than to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, as at present. It has also been announced that
an attempt will be made to institute what are called
"appropriate prices", rather than to maintain low prices
for all commodities. Such articles as are necessary to
the livelihood of the low income groups will, if possible,
continue to be sold at low prices and the deficits of the
producers of those commodities will be made up by subsidies
and allowances provided by the Government. In other com-
modities some rise in price will be allowed, in order that
the producers will not only be able to meet the expenses
of production but will also receive a fair profit. The
vernacular press, however, has expressed considerable
doubt as to the efficacy of such a program which, it is
said, does not cope with the fundamental causes. Refer-
ence is made to the extraordinarily large current Govern-
ment expenditures and to the Yen 10,000,000,000 budget
for

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
for the coming fiscal year. Rationalization of Govern-
ment expenditures is urged. At the same time the press
suggests that the program for productive expansion be re-
examined, pointing out that continued emphasis on expansion
of productive facilities, new factories, machines, et cetera,
will only serve to accentuate the already apparent dis-
crepancy between the increase in productive capacity and
the lack of a corresponding increase in production. It
has not been possible to develop adequate numbers of skilled
technicians or skilled laborers. The press reports that
many of these new factories are, in fact, wasting valuable
materials in the production of inferior articles. The
Government's policy of encouraging export of foodstuffs
to foreign countries is roundly berated as being unsound,
in view of the growing shortage of such articles within the
country.
Considerable has been said in the present Diet session
concerning the necessity of "promptly stabilizing the live-
lihood of the people". Commodities which are said to be
seriously affected cover practically all the articles of
daily use, as well as most of the basic materials - for
example: matches, rice wine, rice, rice bran, charcoal,
nails, cotton, cotton goods, silk, rayon, staple fiber,
drugs, beer, paper, iron, coal, leather, rubber, gasoline,
soap, medicines, fertilizer, et cetera, et cetera. Measures
which have been suggested include furtlier official encourage-
ment of the purchase of insurance, annuities and of the
deposit

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
deposit of savings; Government control of such basic
commodities as rice, cereals, coal, gold, et cetera;
a rationing system on the basis of tickets for daily
necessities such as rice, coal, wheat, charcoal, soya
bean sauce, bean paste, et cetera.
Any studies of economic conditions of Japan today
are seriously handicapped and limited by the absence of
.reliable statistics. Important and basic information of
almost every type is considered a military secret. The
information in this despatch is compiled on the basis of
personal observations, current comment in newspapers, and
periodicals. The result therefore is largely impressionistic
rather than factual. It is, however, obvious that Japan's
retail markets are seriously troubled with growing shortages
of daily necessities and basic commodities. The price
policy hitherto followed by the Government has failed and
has resulted in flagrant, clever illegal transactions creating
a price level and a cost of living far above that desired
or admitted to exist by official circles. Government
measures have at best been expedient attempts to meet suo-
cessive crises. These measures have, however, succeeded
to a degree surprising to most observers here in Japan
and abroad. I do not foresee any alleviation of the present
growing difficulties in the near future. There is, however,
no doubt that productive instruments have been in the last
two years markedly expanded. If in the course of the next
ten months Japan is able to utilize that expansion to
produce consumers goods in some measure comparable to the
effective

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
effective demand evidenced by utilized purchasing power
of the people, not only internally but throughout the
"yen bloc area", it may be that confidence in the avail-
ability of commodities will be restored and the dangers
of unbridled inflation avoided. The difficulties of mal-
distribution, hoarding, excessive Government expenditures
and the emphasis on a war economy are great. The dangers
of political failure in China, unrest in Japan, and natural
calamities are not to be disregarded in an economy so deli-
cately balanced as that of Japan. I expect for the moment
a continuance of the trend toward inflation with the Govern-
ment attempting to keep prices and supplies under control.
Whether ultimate success or failure is realized, it is per-
haps important to bear in mind that the expanded productive
facilities will not be wiped out even should Japan go through
an inflationary debacle or deflationary collapse.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C.Grew.
850
MWS:C
Original and 3 copies to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
1n
1n
n
Chungking;
" Consulate General, Shanghai.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.83)
FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Pa/H
4/9/40.
Jile
Ream - copy rutamid ny Row
t oofyta d, rnd
The Dep't g Commerce
stuky Cattached) "Cronarnic Situation
in Jopan in1934" is hased n pon
Commercial attaché u parts (ospociady
the lunnual refart) and lantains
little that is new to 7E. Neverthder.
I have foun) it nsefut to have
and twarth wtele to re wer. le
feeo estra lapies are alt anded
MK.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
primarily from a so per cent in-
crease in phipments to Manehuria
and China, for which Hittle foreign
exchange was received. Exports to
Bw Feas Tomss.
foreign currency countries increased
April An indi-
by only 12 per cent, but the import
ef Japan's eco-
balance, in trade with those coun-
tries, was reduced to $105,000,000,
compared with $164,000,000 in 1938.
Exports to the United States ad-
vanced sharply in value owing to
a 47 per cent increase in the value
of raw silk shipments, notwith-
standing a 15.5 per cent drop in the
volume of silk exports. Imports
from the United States Increased
stuation in China overshadowed all
9.5 pe: cent fron 930. the 11.8 per
other developments, the report said
cent loss in purchase of American
It Hated as the most obvious migns
aw cotton being more than offset
of a weakened economic structure a
by increased imports of scrap iron,
sharp increase in the note circula-
refined copper and machine tools.
tlon and general trend toward in-
flation, mounting commodity short-
Luxembourg Envoy Received
ages, a decline in labor efficiency.
Special to THE New YoRx TImER
and a substantial incrsase in the
WASHINGTON, Aprll 3-After
national debt.
lapse of a score of years formal
"In order to cushion the impact
diplomatic representation here was
of developments arising from the
restored today between the Grand
European war, measures were in.
Tuchy of Luxembourg and the
troduced to suppress speculation.
I'nited States when Hughes Le Gal
regulate commodity prices, and su-
lais presented his credentials a
pervime shipping," said the report.
chargé d'affaires to Secretary of
"It was generally raalized, however.
State Cordell Hull
Relatinn be
that the nation was in no position
tween the two countries have been
to take full advantage of the trade
regarded as too small in recent
opportunities offered hy the war.
years to warrant the expense to
Heavy Industry Gains
Luxembourg of maintaining a lega-
tien It has been established in a
"Because of the larger output in
hotel. This country's relations with
munitions and allied plants, indus
the Grand Duchy are conducted
trial production in 1939 showed a
through the Ambassador to Bcl
net volume gain of about 5 per cent
ginm
over 1928 and from 10 to 12 per
cont over 1987. Further expansion
Art Sale to Aid Chinese
of industrial production in genern!
Inder the stonsorshup or the
was hampered by the shortage of
Amepean Bur eau tor Medical Aid
electric power and coel, labor short
for China of "huch Colonel Th 
age, a decline in plant operating
dore Rooseveh s piesident. a s
efflolency and scarcity of basic raw
of paintings. ewelry and art ob
materials.
jicts will he held. beginning Mon-
The most favorable aspect of
day. at the Far Gallery. 19 East
Japanese economy last year was
Sixty first Street. The sale will con
the improvement in agricultural
tinue for two weeks and the pro-
onditions generally, maid the re-
ceeds will be used to aid sufferers
ort. An official index showed a
in Chiaa.
per eent increase in average
while the advance in the cost of
rincipal articles of consumption
quired by farmers was but 6 per
nt.
"The inerease in net returns to
roducers resulted in more general
perity in rural areas than has
The marp ady

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
MONT OF COMMERCE
Büream of Foreign and Domestic Commerce
Washington
April 1940
594.50
ECONOMIC SITUATION IN JAPAN IN 1939
(Prepared in the Division of Regional Information and
based on a report from the Office of the American
Commercial Attache, Tokyo, Japan.)
Preoccupation with the.China Incident dominated Japan's economy during
1939, overshadowing other developments. While most economic statistics
indicate pronounced business and industrial activity and a decided improvement
in the agricultural situation, there were signs that the nation's economic
structure was being seakened by the continued strain of coping with the situation
in China. The most obvious signs included: a sharp increase in the note circula-
894.50/1
tion and general trend toward inflation; a significant decline in the rate of
absorption of national bonds in the last half of the year; an increase of 32 per
cent in the national debt; end a heavier tax burden. Mounting comnodity shortages
-- owing to the depletion of reserves and concentration on production of military
2
and allied equipment -- as well as a decline in labor efficiency and in industrial
2
efficiency, were other evidences of the economic strain.
Economic Difficulties Augmented by International Developments.
Notice by the United States of its intention to abrogate the l9ll commercial
treaty with Japan and the outbreak of war in Europe augmented the numerous per
plexing problems facing the nation, elthough the effect of the war was lessened
somewhat owing to the previous organization of Japan's econony on a wartime basis.
However, the Government took further steps to cushion the impact of developments
arising from the European War, including revisions of the materials mobilization
program, the plans for expanding the nation's productive capacity, and plans for
F
/A
financial mobilization. Measures were introduced to suppress speculation,
5745

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.92)
Economic Situation in Japan in 1939 - Anril 1940 - 2.
1
regulate commodity prices, assure continuation of low money rates, provide
necessary war risk insurance, and sunc rvise shipning. There developed a specula-
tive wave of buying of securities of export enterprises in anticipation of a war
boom, but it wes subsequently realized thit Japan was in no position to take full
advantage of the trade opoortunities offered by the European war.
0
At the end of the year it w's chvious th t the nation was unswerved in its
determination to carry on its plans for creating a "New Order in Asia," but public
leaders and economic otservers were outspoken with regard to the indefinite
period of further stcrifices that would be renuired to achieve this objective.
Policy of Plannod Econony Unchan, ed.
Jaan's trsic cconomic policies romained unaltered during the yeor despite
two Sebir. t cheets. peasures a rrl ci i tro reel pere nimed at m rshallin
the econe ie re rourees of t meire to the cul ost extent for carryine on the
hostilitir in hint. hs ceore of sov ranentel rerul: tions over the netion's
econoryllt
Prolen atien or t Chine oiliti te r in murore see ssit ted
changes in the inoustriel exonnsion prorerem, somely, a shift fron the former
pat rnalictic ottitude in the developaent of small scole establishaents toward
consolid vion of canital nd equinment in larre scale enterorises. Efforts to
combat com olity shortae and illercl transocticns were mode throuch exoension of
the distrilutior control system. Mny new commodities were added to the list of
items subject to State control. Particul r  ttention was siven to insuring
adequate supplies of raw materials for export industries, and further restrictions
were imposed on the use of baric commodities for general public consumption.
Government aporopriation of certain commodities, factories, and workshops was
authorized by invocation of Articles X and XIII of the National General Mobiliza
tion Law.
5745

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
onomic Situation in Japan in 1939 - April 1940 - 3. :
2
Small Increase in Total Industrial Production.
According to best available indices, industrial production during 1939
registered a new volume gain of about 5 percent over 1938 and from 10 to 12
percent over 1937, when total production was estimated at 16,486,000,000 yen
($4,761,000,000). The record of industrial output last year, however, is not
impressive when it is considered that thousands of small firms have been es-
tablished over the past two years to produce military equipment; that more than
4,700,000,000 yen ($1,360,000,000) has been invested in expanding productive
capacity since 1937; and that factory employment has reached an all time high.
Factors responsible for the comparatively slight gain in l939 were the shortage
of electric power and coal, the shortage of labor -- particularly skilled labor -
and a decline in labor efficiency and in plant operating efficiency. Moreover,
there was & shortage of basic raw materials and severe restrictions were imposed
on production of goods for domestic consumption. It is believed thot output in
these industries was below the 1938 level.
Attention Concentrated on Expansion of Heavy Industries.
The 1939 gain in industrial production was due almost entirely to larger
output in the heavy industries. While specific figures for these industries are
not revealed, the official composite index covering pig iron, steel materials,
machinery, and tools showed a gain in production of 17.1 percent during the first
nine months of 1939, comp red with the same period in 1938. Special efforts were
centered on expansion of the nation's productive capacity in accordance with the
three year industrial expansion program for Japan, Manchuria, and North China;
but owing to the shortage of commodities and power, end the lack of skilled labor,
it is believed the progress made was not as great as scheduled. Chemical pro-
duction was restricted by power shortage, while the mining industry showed a
volume gain of only 3 percent despite efforts to dncrease mineral output.
5745

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
monomic Situation in Japan in 1939 - April 1940 4..
Short Supply of Iron and Steel.
Although production in the iron and steel industry reached a record level,
the supply of raw materials was admittedly short throughout the year -- a factor
partly responsible for the slow progress in-expanding other industries. Fear of
a cessation of scrap iron imports from the United States -- following abrogation
of the commercial treaty - and a shortage in ores from British and French colonial
possessions efter the outbreak of the European War, caused restrictions. to be
imposed on deliveries of these commodities to the less efficient plants. It was
decided, furthermore, to exercise unified control over scrap iron purchases and
distribution, while particular attention was given to the possibility of utilizing
low grade ores.
Stocks of Cotton Textiles Increase Despite Heavier Exports.
Conditions were somewhat improved in the cotton textile industry as manu.
facturers and dealers became more accustomed to operating under imposed re
strictions. Raw cotton imports for the year totaled 1,335,000,000 pounds,an
increase of 7 percent over 1938, with India and Brazil receiving the largest.
benefit. Arrivals from the United States end China declined.
Cotton piece goods exports totaled 2,446,0Q0,000 square yards, a 12 percent
increase over l938, but the value of shipments declined by 0.1 percent. Notwith-
standing increased export trade, the heavy accumulation of cotton textile stocks
towards the end of the year presented a problem to the industry.
Labor Shortage and Employment Shifts.
1
The accepted theory th't Japan possesses an unlimited labor supply has been
dispelled by development over the past two years. It became increasingly apparent
in 1939 that the nation was incapable of supplying sufficient manpower for both
military requirements and the increased demand in industrial plants, especially
for skilled labor. The demand for workers in the heavy industries was met to some
5745

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
conomic Situation in Japan in 1939 - April 1940 - 5.
:extent by shifting employment from the light industries. Consequently, :employment
gains in the machinery, vehicle, tools and instruments, and metal industries were
partially at the expense of the spinning, weaving, dyeing, braiding, knitting and
rubber industries. While the rate of increase in employment covering all in-
dustries since the outbreak of the China Inoident is 26 percent, in the machinery
industry employment has increased by 94 percent; by 68 percent in the tool in-
dustry; 63 percent in the shipbuilding and vehicle industry; and 42 percent in
the metals industry. A definite trend was noted also in 1939 towards the con-
centration of labor in large scale establishments.
Average wage rates were 7.5 percent higher during the first eight months of
the year comp red with the seme period in 1938. However, because of overtime work,
actual earnings showed a gain of 9.9 percent.
Prices and Living Costs Advance Sharply Despite Control Measures.
Commodity price control became an outstanding problen of the year, as under
the stimulus of diminishing supplies, comnodity shortages and rising production
costs, wholesale and retail prices surged upward monthly. Following the outbreak
of the European war the Government instituted measures to peg prices at the levels
prevailing on September 18, but this action had little effect. In fact the
inability of the Government to control prices was a contributory cause for the
resignation of the Abe Cabinet early in 1940.
Wholesale price indices of the Ministry of Commerce and the Bank of Japan
1
showed average advances of from 8 to 1l percent during the first eleven months of
1939, compcred with the same period in 1938; an advance of from 15 to 22 percent
over 1937, and from 33 to 50 percent over 1936. Retail price indices advanced
from 12 to 13 percent over the first 11 months of 1938, 30 percent over 1937, and
42 percent over l936. The most conspicuous gains occurred in retail prices of
food and clothing.
5745

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
Mconomic Situation in Japan in 1939 - April 1940 6-
 According to the Cabinet's Statistical Bureau, there was a 15.3 percent rise
in living costs of laborers during the year and a l4.1 percent rise for the
salaried class over the 1938 level. Since the outbreak of the China Incident,
the cost of living for laborers has advanced 30.7 percent while that for the
salaried class has increased 28.5 percent.
Greater Prosperity in Rural Areas.
The most favorable feature in Japan's economy last year was the improvement
in agricultural conditions. In the previous year the rise in prices of farm
products lagged far behind the price advance in other commodities required in
farming communities. The improvement in 1939 is reflected in the official weighted
index covering income from rice, silk and wheat, which showed a 50 percent advance
from the end of December 1938 to the end of November 1939, while the price advance
in principal articles for form consumption was only 6 percent during the same
period. The more general prosperity in rural areas was reflected in increased
demand for currency, the liquidation of bank loans, and a sharp rise in rural
bank deposits.
Larger Crops Reported.
Although the rice crop in western Japan was seriously damaged by the drought,
weather conditions were reported favorable for all crops in other sections of the
country, and returns from wheat, barley and rye were the highest on record. The
total rice crop was reported to be somewhat higher than in l938 while the cocoon
crop reached the highest level since 1933.
Reorganization of Japan's agriculture on a wartime basis was largely re-
sponsible for the more satisfactory crop returns. The improvement was achieved
in face of such handicaps as the heavy drain on farm labor by military require-
ments and industry, and the shortage in fertilizers and farm equipment.
5745

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
monomic Situation in Japan in 1939 - April 1940 - 7.
Rice Prices Advance as Supplies in Cities Diminish.
The Government took measures during the year to check rising rice prices and
endeavored to control distribution of rice. Notwithstanding these measures,
prices rose sharply as a result of the small volume of available stocks --. due to
the light carry-over from 1938, the drought, and a subnormal crop in Chosen.
Reluctance on the part of farmers to sell their holdings contributed to the price
advance and caused a serious shortage of rice in urban centers towards the end of
the year. The Government is reported to be considering steps to reduce 1940 rice
consumption, but it is expected that heavy imports from foreign countries may be
necessary.
Silk Prices Forced Upward.
Conditions in the silk industry at the close of 1938 and early in 1939
clearly foreshadowed the rise in silk prices. Domestic consumption of silk wes
heavy as a result of the ban on domestic use of cotton, and foreign demand for
silk was strong with stocks low owing to the poor cocoon crop of the previous
year. These factors, plus speculative activities on the part of raw silk dealers,
soon forced quotations to a point where the Government began liquidating its silk
holdings. This quantity was soon absorbed, however, and the market continued in
an upward trend. Despite official warnings against the undesirability of high
silk quotations, no cction was taken to check the upward movement -- as was done
with other commodities -- owing to the fact th-t larger amounts of foreign ex-
change accrued from the higher value of silk exports. The average quotation for
Standard 13/15 denier white D-grade silk at the end of the year was 2, 230 yen
($535) per bale comp red with 821 yen ($223) per bale at the end of 1938. How-
ever, largely as a result of regulations enforced in January of this year govern-
ing control over the distribution of silk, quotations declined to less than
1,700 yen ($408) per bale by the middle of February.
5745

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
conomic Situation in Japan in 1939- April 1940 8 .
Financial Strain More Evident.
During 1939 the national debt increased by 5,297,000,000 yen ($1,377,000,000)
reaching a peak of 21, 520, 000,000 yen ($5,595,000,000) at the end. of the year,
double the amount outstanding at the beginning of the China Incident.. In the last
half of 1939 there was a pronounced decline in the national bond absorption rate,
and a tendency towards inflation manifested principally by a sharp increase in the
note issue end rising commodity prices. The average daily note issue of the Bank
of Japan totaled 2,374,000,000 ($617,000,000), compared with the 1938 average of
1,919,000,000 yen ($547,000,000) and 1,525,000,000 yen ($442,000,000) during 1937.
When the issue reached the record high of 3,317,000,000 yen ($992,000,000) on
December 30, 1939, the 1egal 1imit was exceeded by 1,116,000,000 yen ($290,000,000)
More Deficit Bonds Floated - Taxation Higher.
Bond flotations during 1939 totaled a value of 5,281,000,000 yen ($1,
373,000,000), an increase of 22 percent compared with 1938. While the absorption
rate increased from 87.4 percent in 1938 to 89.2 percent last year, the rate
during the last six months of the year dropped to 77 percent. Considerable con-
cern prevails over the future trend of the bond absorption rate, especially as it
is probable that bonds to the value of 5,800,000,000 yen ($1,500,000,000). may have
to be floated during 1940 in view of estimated expenditures of 10,360,000,000 yen
($2,694,000,000) in the 1940-41 budget.
A new tax system, providing for raising taxes of all classes, was approved
toward the end of 1939. That the tax burden has become heavier since the China
Incident is indicated by the rise in tax revenues from 1,050,000, 000 yen
.($287,000,000) in the 1936–37 f1scal year to 2,245,000,000 yen ($584,000,000)
in the 1939-40 fiscal year.
Exchange Control Continued - Yen Linked to Dollar.
All foreign exchange transactions continued to be rigidly controlled
5745

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
nomic Situation in Japan-ir 1939 - April 1940 - 9.
throughout 1939 and importers experienced increasing delay and difficulty in
securing permits to make remittances abroad in foreign currencies. In view of
this situation, a majority of American firms adopted the policy during the last
half of the year of doing business with Japan only on the basis of irrevocable
confirmed letters of credit. By the end of the year there was a further accumula-
tion of frozen funds of American firms operating in the country.
The exchange market was featured by the decision reached on October 24 to
shift the linling of the yen from sterling to the United States dollar, and to fix
the selling rate at $0.23-7/16. This action was taken to avoid undue exchange
fluctuations and to facilitate exports, particularly to the United States and
South Americen morkets.
Foreign Trade Increased - Import Excess in Trade with Foreign Currency Countries.
Total exports fron Japan Proper amounted to a value of 3,576,000,000 yen
($930,000,000) for 1939 -- an al1 time high and an increase of 32 percent over
1938. Imports were valued at 2,918,000,000 yen ($759,000,000), representing a
gain of 9.5 percent compared with 1938. The export excess of 658,000,000 yen
($171,000,000) was also a record high and a substantial increase over the
27,000,000 yen ($7,650,000) recorded in 1938. However, Japan's export trade ex-
pansion.resulted primarily from heavier shipments to the yen-bloc area, that is to
Manchuria and China, for which little foreign exchange was received. Total ship
ments to these areas amounted to 1,747, 000,000 yen ($454, 000,000), an increase of
50 percent compared with 1938, while imports from the yen-bloc totaled 682,000,000
yen ($177,300,000), a in of 22.percent over 1938.
Exports to foreign currency countries, on the other hand, increased by only
.12 percent, to a value of 1,829,000, 000 yen ($476,000,000) in 1939 and imports
advanced by 6.4 percent, totaling 2,235,000,000 yen ($581,000,000), leaving a net
import balance in trade with foreign currency countries of 406,000,000 yen
5745

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
lc Situation in Japan in 1939 - Anril 1940 - 10.
($105,000,000), compared with 575,000,000 yen ($164,000,000) 1n 1938
Exports of all economic categories increased during l939, food and-beverage
exports increasing by 42 percent, raw materials by 74 percent, semimanufactures
by 41 percent, and manufactured goods by 23 percent, compared with the previous
year. Thee were also significant increases over 1938 in imports of raw materials
and simimanufactures, amounting to 9 and 22 percent, respectively. Arrivals of
manufactured goods, however, declined by 13 percent, reflecting the efforts to
make processed materials locally.
Substantial Increase in Trade with the United States.
Imports from the United Sttes into Japan totaled 1,002,000,000 yen
($261,000,000) during 1939, representing a gain of 9:5 percent compared with 1938,
while 1939 exports to the United States amounted to 642;000,000 yen ($167,000,000),
an increrse of 50.8 percent over the previous year. Raw cotton imports from the
United States declined by ll.8 percent, this loss being more than offset by
increased purchases of scrap iron, rcfined copper, and machine tools. It is
believed that purchases of petroleum products, aircraft and parts and automotive
products declined.
Raw silk shipments to the United States increased 47 percent in value, but
declined 15.5 percent in volume, compared with 1938. Considerable value gains
were registered also in exports to the United St tes of canned foods, vegetable
oils, fish oils, unbleached cotton piece goods and electric light bulbs.
War in Europe Stimulates Export Trade.
The European war afforded some stimulus to e xport trade, shipments of
Japanese goods to al1 countries averaging a value of 367,000,000 yen ($95,000,000)
per month during the last four months of 1939 compared with 263,000,000 yen
($68, 000,000) in the first eight months of the year. Most of the gains were
with North Americen and South American markets. Imports were only slightly
affected by the war, falling to a monthly average of 240,000,000 yen ($62,000,000)
in the 1ast four months compared with 243,000,000 yen ($63,000,000) in the
previous eight months. Imports from Germany averaged 6,700,000 yën ($1,700,000)
compared with the previous, eight months' average of 14,500,000 yen (3.800,000).
#4H
5745

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 6, 1940
Reference Tokyo's despatch no. 4801,
£1, 1940, entitled "Effeot of European War
Japan's Foreign Trade".
The most immediate effeot of the outbreak
the war upon Japan was the loss of her trade
with Germany. Between Germany, Japan and Man-
churla there had been carried on a three-
sornered trade of major importance in soya beans
and bean oil to Germany in return for machinery
and tools essential to Japanese military and
industrial plants. The stoppage of this trade
was felt keenly both in Manchuria and Japan
and refleoted prinoipally upon Japan's
ambitious plans for industrial and military ex-
pansion. Moreover, souroes of several important
industrial materials were out off, notably pulp
from Finland, steel and steel bearings from
Soandinavia, and machinery from Great Britain.
Thus far Japan's exports have neither suf-
fered greatly nor have they been benefited as a
result of the European war. There has been an
inorease in Japan's exports 1n 1940, but most
of the increase took place with respect to
yen bloo markets. Japan has been put in a
position of greater dependence upon the Ameri-
can market and present Japanese trade policies
place more emphasis upon securing access to
sources of supply.
gmf
FE:JOnes:HJN

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.90)
18412
CPARTMENTOFTSTE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
GEEA
1940 JUL 23 PM 1 47
I
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DVS0
COMMUN CA
Tokyo, June 21, 1940.
AND RECCD
No. 4801.
SUBJECT:
EFFECT OF EUROPEAN WAR ON JAPAN'S FOREIGN
TRADE.
W
A fle
B
BF PUBLISHED
844.50
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
894.50/123
OFFICIAL INFORMATION.
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
GLAOG131940
70
No
DEr AMEHI OF STATE
For Diatrthutian-Chook
1
740
Grade
1:USA
Not
Department of State
COMMERCTAL AFFAIRS
3 A Conmonante
Its Tanef/ Satt. but.
1940
3
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
FILED
Washington.
19A0
Sir:
In continuation of the serios of despatches on
various phases of Japan's econogy palled for by the
§94 50/114a
Department in instruction no. 1849 of November 25, 1939,
I have the honor to comment briefly on the effect of the
F/A
European war on Japan's foreign trade. As far as possible
this disoussion avoids the details and figures which would
be more appropriate in a commeroial report, and endeavors
to

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
to prosent an outline picture of the situation.
During the Great War of 1914-18 Japan enjoyed a
trade boom of such proportion that the country was lifted
from an insignificant position in world trade to a place
among the commercial nations of the first rank. The
principal factors bringing about that boom were briefly
a follows: (1) domination by Japanese merchants of
the markets of the Far East, (2) the expansion of trade
with neutral countries at the expense of the warring
nations, (3) cultivation of new markets in the colonies
of the belligerents higherto dominated by exports from
the mother country, and (4) enormous demand for Japanese
manufaotured products,principally oonsumer goods, on the
part of the belligerents.
As soon as news of the outbreak of war in Europe
reached Japan in September l939, a wave of optimism swept
over the country and the stock-markets boomed for a few
days. On second and more critical thought it was realized
that none of the above-mentioned factors whioh were in foroe
during the previous war need necessarily operate in the
same way to Japan's advantage during the current European
hostilities.
While Japan's trade with the Far East may have gained
to some extent at the expense of the European combatants,
that trade is now largely on a paper yen basis and does not
return any specie or foreign exchange to Japan. Nor does
it supply many of the commodities that are so sorely needed
in Japan. No war booms have appeared in any country, even
1n

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
in the United States, which would create a demand for
Japanese products, nor have recent inoreases in Japaneso
trade with Latin America, of which so much has been heard
recently, been of much importance relative to Japan's
total foreign trade. With Japan engaged in large-soale
military operations in China, it has been impossible for
her to export military supplies to the belligerents in
Europe es she did in the Great War - much to her profit.
Even Japanese shipping which profited greatly during the
last war is largely occupied with the transport of military
supplies for the Japanese armies on the continent and is
unable to take advantage of its neutral situation.
The most immediate effect on Japan of the war was,
of course, the loss of the trade with Germany and the
countries invaded by Germany. Between Germany, Japan and
Manchuria there had been carried on a three-cornered trade
of major importance in soya beans and bean oil to Germany
in return for machinery and tools essential to Japanese
military and industrial plants. Financially the conse-
quence of the stoppage of this trade was felt more im-
mediately in Manchuria than by Japan, but the effeot on
Japan's ambitious plans for industrial and military ex-
pansion was strongly felt. At the same time the trade,
especially the import trate, in several important indus-
trial materials from Europe has been out off, notably pulp
from Finland used in the Japanese rayon industry, steel and
steel bearings from Soandinavia, machinery from Great Britain.
Thus

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
Thus far important Japanese exports have suffered
comparatively little from the European war. Nor on
the other hand has the war brought any great benofit
to that trade except in isolated and minor items. Japan's
principal exports are, in approximate order of value:
cotton textiles and yarns, raw silk, rayon textiles and
yarns, machinery and parts, preserved comestibles. Exports
of textiles of all kinds have suffered little injury,
largely because the war has aggravated the problems of
Japan's biggest competitor, Lancashire, in the competition
for the world's cotton tertile trade. However, the recent
decline in the sterling rate has tended to offset one of
Japan's advantages, namely a depreciated currency in terms
of foreign exchange, in the large market in British terri-
tories which takes approximately 80 percent of Japanese
cotton textile exports. Rayon goods were shipped abroad
in increasing quantities during the first stages of the
war, but a recessional trend is now in evidence. The
problem of pulp supplies for the making of rayon, imports
of which to the extent of about 40 per cent came from
Scandinavia and Finland, is bothering the Japanese who
anticipate increasing difficulty in obtaining sufficient
supplies from North America. Exports of raw silk, machinery
and comestibles show little effect from the war. None of
these items is exported to Europe in large quantity.
The total export trade of Japan during the first four
montks of 1940 showed a substantial inorease over that
of l939. It is significant, however, that most of the
inorease

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
increases took place with respect to exports to the
yen-bloo markets which return no foreign exchange to
Japan, and can not be attributed to the effects of the
European war. Moreover, where increases are indicated
in certain items exported to gold-remitting countries,
such as silk to the United States, such increases are
accounted for more by advanced prices than by larger
volumes of exports. While thus far wartime measures
invoked by several nations to embargo or to control
imports have not seriously affected Japan's trade with
territories of the combatants, it seems inevitable that
as the scope and duration of the hostilities extend, an
increasing trend in that direction may be expected. At
the present time the atmosphere in Japanese exporting
circles is filled with foreboding of the closing of further
markets abroad and demands are heard for remedial action
by the Government.
Thus far the most serious effect of the war on Japan's
foreign trade has been on the side of imports rather than
exports. With the warring nations and neutrals as well
adopting various measures to guard their resources of
essential materials, Japan is encountering increasing
diffioulty in obtaining its requirements for the program
of military activity and industrial expansion now in progress.
The effeot has been particularly oppressive because of the
faot that much of Japan's export trade depends on raw mater-
ials imported from abroad for processing in this country.
The stoppage of machinery imports from Europe, especially
Germany

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Germany which furnished about 27 per cent of Japan's
machinery imports, has been a severe blow to Japanese
industry. In.the case of machinery, and likewise with
cotton, petroleum, scrap iron, copper, chemicals, wheat
and pulp, which are among the principle commodities essential
to Japan, the effect of the war has been to place this country
more completely in a position of uneasy dependence on an un-
friendly Americanmarket.
Accordingly it is not surprising that present Japanese
trade policies tend to place more emphasis upon securing
access to sources of supply than to the promotion of ex-
ports. It is reliably reported that since the German con-
quest of the Netherlands, Japan has demanded and obtained
from the Netherlands Indies assurances against interruption
in the supply to Japanese industry of essential materials.
In recent months Japan has concluded trade agreements and
treaties with various countries, Uruguay, Thai, Nicaragua,
and Columbia for the same purpose. Other treaties with
India and Russia and a new multilateral treaty with Italy
and Manchukuo are in prospect. The purpose of all of these
agreements is not only to secure a position of advantage in
disposing of Japanese products, but more important, to assure
the smooth flow of essential materials into Japan.
It may in short be said that thus far the effects of
the European war on Japan have been nogative when they have
not been definitely unfavorable. If the present war should
tako

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
take on the aspect of the previous Great War and become
a protracted struggle of attrition in which the combatants
were obliged to purchase increasing supplies of both
munitions and consumers' commodities, Japan would undoubted-
ly find the war increasingly profitable to her trade. But
the turn of events in Europe seems to preclude that favorable
development. From the standpoint of foreign trade the Euro-
pean war has brought to Japan little but new problems.
Respectfully yours,
631
Joseph C. Grew.
WTT:C
Original and 5 copies to Department.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bay letter
REVEIVED
X NONOONFIDINTIAL
[Night letter
Department ot State
PARTAIN
PLAIN
Charge Department:
"Gray"
Full rate
Washington. NAVAL RADIO
Day letter
1940 NOV 14 PM 5 56
Night letter
November 14, 1940
Charge to
GPM
AMEMBASSY,
INFO: AMEAICA.. CO.LL, I (.A).
476
One. Accordin t ar elted Prees Jespatch
from Tokyo of November. t e    roy tion
894.50/1
Bureau has releesed on :li ot  ten-year program
desiened t reuieve coroltr pelr uff cieney for
99
Jenen, Chine ne ncuxu.
Aceottreport
liA
110
the fundemental oi..
re ram e: UCTE (1)
10
CN
Jepan to furnicht
enc xilled
A
4.4
lator to tne Continent, , monenukue witn intensified
89
colonizatior. from Janrn t cevelon euriculture, pro-
ducing enough basic sunnlies for the entire bloc, (3)
Chinese unskilled letor to be employed in the develop-
ment of mines and other n: tural resources. UNQUOTE
Two. According to an ui.dated despetch from Peiping
to the Christian Science Monitor (published on Novem-
ber 5) by David Weile, the Asia Development Board has
announced another five-year plan for the development of
north China. According to the despatch, QUOTE One of the
first features apparent in examining the new plan is an
Enciphered by
Sont by operederM.,
19.
1-1608
PRINTING CFFICE

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM SENT
(Day letter
Department of State
INight letter
Charge Department:
Washingion.
Full rate
-2-
Day lstter
Night letter
Charge to
apparent realization that earlier plans were too
$
optimistic. The Japanese planners are beginning to
recognize some of the real problems which they face.
UNQUOTE
The two principal aims of the new plan are
said to be the increase of coal production and the increase
of agricultural products, cniefly rice and cotton. The
seotion of the plan dealing with transportation, accord-
ing to tne despatch, differs substantially from previous
plans in that there ie no talk of an extensive network
of new railways, but rather emphasis upon repair and
strengthening of existing railways.
Three. The foregoing reports would seem to point
in the direction of a growing realization by the Japanese
of the difficulty of carrying out their previous plans
for the 1ndustrial development of nortn China and Manchuria..
The Japanese military authorities and the Japanese Govern-
ment for several years appear to have been committed to the
industrialization of Manchuria notwithstanding a certain
amount of opposition to that policy. Moreover, there have
been some, notably General Itagaki, who have envisaged
the construction of heavy national defense industries in
north China, and there has been relatively little criticism
Enciphered by
Send by operader
M..

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
jDay letter
Department of State
Might letter
Chargs Department:
-3-
Washington,
Fall rate
Day letter
Might letter
Charge to
of the grandiose schemes for the immediate development
$
of Chinese raw materiel resources and transportation
facilities. The foregoing reports would appear to in-
dicate a possible shift in policy in regard to the in-
dustrialization of Manchuria and north China and a growing
sense of realism in regard to China's economic potentialities.
Four. The Department desires that the Embassies at
Peiping and Tokyo endeavor to verify the reports mentioned
in paragraphs one and two, that they comment briefly by
naval radio upon tne significance of those reports, and
that they follow closely the situation indicated in tnis
telegram and from time to time submit mail reports thereon.
Sent to Tokyo via Peiping. Repeated to Shanghai.
Wler
fak
FE
PA/H
Enciphered by
Sent by eperator
M..
19.
PRINTING OPFICE

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PLAIN
TOKYO VIA PEIPING
FROM
Dated November 20. 1940
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
Rxolq 4:1R p. m., 83nd
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
Division of
INTERNATONAL ECONUMIC AFFAIRS
FAR EASTERN FEAIRSR
Becretary of State
DEC111940
NOV2M940
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
894.50/124
123a
1175, NovembEr 20, 6 p.m.
Reference Department's 476, November 15, 6 p.m.
One. On November 5 all vernacular newspapers pub-
lished what was called the oitline of a ten year plan for
the Economic construction of the "Japan-Manchukuo-China
894.50
bloo". The details of the outline were prefaced by a
Usles
atatement issued by the spokesman of the new Cabinet
894.60
Information Bureau and reference was made to the pro-
894.504
nounoement of the Konoye Cabinet on August 1 for the
DEC.121940
"Establishment of a coordinated Economic spherE built
Department of State
COMMEROIAL AFFAIRS
around Japan, Manchukuo, China and comprased of greater
East Asia". ThE Cabinet information spokesman said that
at a reoent Cabinet mesting basic principles for the
"Economic construction of the Japan-Manchukuo unit" had
been decided and the Government had determined to unify
cn
and Enforce necEssary measures in line with those prinoipls'
He added that world woonomy based on free trade and frem
interchange of commodities between countries represrnted
th

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
11f5,ovember 20, 6 pam., from Tokyo
the old order which was orumbling. It was therefort
belirved nedeesary to make the tconomy of Japan "higher,
wider and stronger". "Higher", was defined as measning
an increased standard of living; "wider", as specifying
an Extension of the Japan-Manchukuo Economic system to
greater East Asia; and "stronger", as being representative
of thE accomplishment of a "minimum of depEndencE" on
countries without greater East Asia. The spokesman
Emphasized the nEcessity of further mobilization of
Economic power with Japan and the firm rEjection of
pressure and threats from areas outside greater East Asia.
The creation of a sElf-sufficient Economio system
within ten years was said to bE the goal of this plan.
SinoE Japan, China and Manchukuo arE to bE the basis of
the greater East Asia Economic sphere it was said to be
nEcEssary that thosE countries rEgulate their Economic
relations of the bagis of "intimatE cooperation". The
Government has, therfore, decided upon basic policies in
the fiεlds of industry, labor, finance, trade and
commurications summarized in translation as follows:
(1) Induetry. Japan must endeavor to make outstand-
ing progress in the manufacture of precision tools and in
894.60
heavy industries, chemical, mining, sto. Manchukuo must
further Expand its mining and Eleotiral industries. Ohina
18

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
1175, November 20, 6 p.m., from Tokyo
i exproted to fully drvelop mining, salt and other
industries of a similar nature in order that larg volume
produotion of industrial materials may be realized.
Future development of heavy industries and chemical
industries in China is also expected. Lightindustries
on the continent arE to bE Extended and Japan is gradually
to transfer its light industries, particularly textile
and miscellaneous goods manufacture, to the continent.
Agriculture in all three countries is to be rationalized
and Expanded. A thoroughgoing increased production of
agricultural products is Expected in Manchukuo, "the
basic area for the supply of foodstuffs and foddrr to the
Economic bloc" and the Enlistment of emigrants from Japan
to Manchukuo will bE continued.
(2) Labor. A great revision in labor and technique
on Japan is necessary to accomplish this plan. SErious
Efforts will bE made for the raising of labor potentiality
894.504
produotivity and the training of skilled laborers, tech-
nicians and engineers. Special plans will bE made for the
immigration and residence in Manchukuo of laborers from
North China.
(3) Finanoe. Industrial funds are to be distributed
according to established plans and a monetary system is to
be put into effect to facilitate such distribution. Measuret
will be taken to increase the acoumulations and utilization
o

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
1176, November 20, 6 p.m., from Tokyo
 mavings. Sprcial account will be taken of the
*interdependent relatione" of the three countries in the
srttlement of international accounts.
(4) Trade. Present commeroial trade principles are
to be considerably revised. To facilitate interchange of
articles with the greater East Asia spherr a "special
agreement for international sEttlement" among Japan, China,
Manchukuo and other countries within the sphere is
nEcessary. This probably implies settlement with non
convertible yen currency
(5) Communications. A carefully worked out plan
for communications is nεcessary looking toward a great
increasE in the number of ships, control and coordination
of air routes and the complEtion and expansion of εlectii-
cal communication, facilities and thE genεral development
of land and BEa transportation routes among the threE
countries.
Two. The new five year plan for the development of
China reportedly announced by thE Asia Development
Board has not been given publicity in Japan but on November
893.50
6 the vErnacular press gave some prominence to a despatch
from Peiping stating, in summary, that North China would
cooprrate with Japan in thE Execution of the ten yEar Eco-
nomio construotions plans. It was said that z North
Ohina

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
1175, Nowember 20, 6 p.m., from Tokyo
China would complete division of the China Affairs Boand
in olosE cooperation with the North China Political
Counoil and the Japanese army authorities in North China
would decide upon a suitable plan to accomplish the
objectives assigned that area under the basic ten year
plan for Japan, China and Manchukuo special consideration
to bE given it was said to the "Emergency monetary and
trade measures" adopted some time previously. Five
developments werE outlined:
(1) Within ten years the annual production of coal
to bE increased by one hundred million tons.
(2) SElf-sufficiency in North China egriculture
to bE progressively increased.
(3) AssistancE to bE given to the devElopment and
absorption in North China of small and medium sized light
industries from Japan.
(4) Financial arrangement to bE made by the North
China Development Company and other national-policy organi-
zations along with imports of capital from Japan and the
mobilization of native capital from North China.
(5) Laborers to bE supplied to Manchukuo in accordance
with a definite plan and special efforts to be made to
increase the number of laborers available for mining and
manufaoturing

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
1175, November 20, 6 p.m., from Tokyo
manufaoturing with North China.
Three. Our comment on this new Economio plan
will follow in a later telegram. The Commeroial Attaohr
has under preparation a mail despatoh to go forward
November 23 giving more details of the Eoonomio plans so
far announoed. Reference is respectively made to
Commeroial AttaohE's wEEkly Economio cablE No. 33,
894.50
November 12.
Sent to the Department via air mail to Peiping.
Repeated to Chungking. By air mail to Shanghai.
GREW
TFV

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.95)
Cople
Copy aiso to.
GRAY AND PLAIE
RECEIVED
DEC121940
PEIENG VIA N.R.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dated November 22
FROM
Rec'd 11:55 am., 24th
SEcrEtary
Division of
1949
FAR EASTERN AFAIRS
ANOV26940
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D
473, November 22, 4 pom
Department of State
123a
ReferencE paragraph onE Department s/476,
894.50/125
DEC 1 6 1940
n
Onε. Inquiry by the Embassy in usually well
partment of Statd
mostly Emanating from Tokyo, that thE Planning Board
AL AFFAIR
ION OF
of thE JapanesE Cabinet recently approved a ten year
program for attaining Economic self-sufficiency within
Yen
thE ing bloc and that thE immEdiatE objEct therEof is
DCA
to mEet "Anglo-American Economic reprisals occasioned
Recording Desk
File-J.P.F.
by Japan's renewed determination to Establish a nEm
C191940
FILED
order in East Asia".
Two. ThE nEw program, as given publicity in
PSRR
Peiping, Envisages thE amalgamation and opEration on a
joint basis of thE Existing Economic structures of
Japan, Manchukuo and China, and the Establishment of
"a spherE of mutual Economic prosperity among all the
countri Es and territories of Greater East Asia".
DOMET
1

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.97)
#475 Novamber2e from Priptng
DOMEI reports that thE new program foreshadows
(onE) a vast shift of JapanesE industrial plants to the
Continent; (two) concentrated effort by Japan on in
oreasing the production of machinE tools, chemical and
mineral products used in heavy industries; (threε)
increased production by Manchukuo of Agricultural
food products and thE Expansion of thE country's mining
and Electircal industries; (four) thE assignment to
China of a primary rolε in thE production of such raw
materials as coal, cotton, wool and pelt and thE Estab-
lishment in China of light industries particularly the
textile industry. Other reports state that the new
program includes a pool of yen block capital, a syste-
matic ExchangE of labor and technical Experts and thE
directing of manufactured Export products along new
channels primarily to meet thE demands of markets in
Greater East Asia.
ThrEE, "ThE PEKING CHRONICLE" on NoVember
nineteen co"mented substantially as follows: (one)
ThE statenent released in Tokyo Early in November by the
Information BurEau of thE JapanesE Cabinet, as to the
manner in which all this is to bE accomplished, the
Cabinet's statement said littlE and indeed detail could
hardly bE Expected at a moment when Japan's own
domestio

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
3- #473 November 22 from Peiping
domestic struoture is undergoing a reform unparallritd
sincE the Meiji restoration. However littlE imagination
is nEeded to grasp thE tremendous implications and the
possibility of thE new plan. It is no secret that.
JapanesE Economy must bE madE higher, wider and
stronger, thereby Elevating thE standard of living for
all East Asian pEoplE• ThE statement that light
industry in Japan Especially thE textilE industry must
bE reduced gradually and transferred to the Continent
.perhaps to thE Extent of Japan surrendering thE leader-
ship therein opens a new vista, "different from thE
Exploitations which critics of Japan havE charged is
thE only aim" (End of comment).
Four. ThE following condensed statement as to
what Japan has accomplished and Expects to accomplish
indE Endently in this respect is taken from thE August
issuE of "THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST" which quotes Mr.
Shingo Tsuda, President of the Kanegafuchi Spinning
Company. (begin statement) SincE thE outbreak of thE
China conflict Japan has madE considerablε strides in
physical and chemical sciences. Petroleum products and
gasolinE can bE manufactured in largE quantities from
the oil fields of Saghalein and by liquification of
coal from Tupentao, Manchukuo. Iron can bE obtained
by

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.97)
#473 from Pe1p1ng. November 22, 1940
by seientific treatment of low grade ores yielded he
at home. Substitutes for cotton and wool could bs.
obtained from hemp growm in Manchukuo and by the
utilization of newly developed chemical fibres.
All thE raw materials needed could bE taken carE of
within thE confines of the East Asian bloc. I do not
hesitate to say that within thE nExt two years all these
scientific discoveries will bE perfected and put on
an industrial scalE so that the country Easily can get
along vithout a drop of petroleum, a piecE of iron, or
a bale of cotton or wool from foreign sources (end of
statement).
FiVE. ThE Editor of "FINANCE AND COMIERCE"
British Economic journal in Shanghai in thE November
thirtEen issuE of that journal commented on thE new
program substantially as follows: (begin comment)
Following a fashion which has comE into considerable
favor during recent years Japan has announced a ten
year plan of Eoonomic development. ThE plan is an
Elaboration of thE old familiar themE of thE Extension
of the yen bloo. Japan wishes to concentratE her
attention upon thE development of heavy industries and
desires to assist Manohukuo and China to develop their
resources and light industrial undertakings in order
that

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
6-#473 from Pe1p1ng, November 221940
that they may feed regularly and Efficiently the grea
oentral workshop. It is Even suggested that many of
thE textilE industries now operating in Japan should bE
transferred to China and then would comE the improvement
of railways, shipping and cormunications of all kinds.
Each area it is announced would devotE its labor power
to thE general advanoement of thE spherE. ThE whole
underlying idea is to make East Asia a self sufficient
unit trading under a comprEhensive financial system
with onE currency and vith all efforts directed towards
producing sufficient raw materials to meet industrial
nEeds. ChinesE viEws on thE subject arE being Either
talen for granted or entirely disregarded and that is
it sEEms to us thE onE flaw which will almost certainly
prevent thE plan from being brought to fruitation. If
Japan owned pEoplE of thE two countriEs werE willing to
cooperatE on friendly terms to achievE that greater
prosperity in which all might sharE equally therE would
bE a great deal to bE said in favor of the plan but
China has not yet been conquered and therE may bE many
strangE developments resulting from thE var in EuropE
to confirm our belief that Japan is "counting her ic
chickens beforE they arE hatched" (End of comment)
(END STTMESSAGT)
Sent to thE Department; repeated to Chungking and
Shanghai; by mail to Tientsin and air mail to Tokyo.
SAIYTH
HPD

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
3
Coples herear to be mene to.
Copy aiso to...
TELEGRAM RECEVED......
JT
GRAY AND PLAIN
zsc
ERON
PEIPING VIA .R.
DEC6
FROM
ECONUNIC AFFANRS
Dated November 38, 1040
DEC121940
EPARTMENT OF STATE
DEVRCIAL
Sroretary of State,
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
victon of
Washington.
DIVISION
40
486, November 26, 4 P.m.
Department of State
Riping's 473, November 22, 4 p.m.
894.
It is believed that the news despatoh from Peiping,
mentioned in paragraph two of the Department's 476,
50/126
November 14, 6 p.m. to Tokyo, was inspired by an article
appearing in the SEptember 20 issue of the JapanesE
Uito
controlled PEiping OHEN PAO announcing that thE fivE
yEar plan for thE industrial dEvelopment North China has
89360
been dressEd up by thE North China liaison offioE of the
IC
Asia Development Board.
E
FILED
C
According to the CHEN PAo thE plan is to come into
2
19
ffrct Bometime next year for the dual purpose of making
North China sElf-sufficieat in commodities and increasing
the output of North China coal available for use in Japan,
F
P
Manohukuo and Oentral China. Other fEatures of the plan
includr.
(1) Increased cotton produotion by means of improved
systems of irrigation and reclamation of waste lands.
(2)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.92)
wember 26, 4 p.m., from
P1p
(2) The use of hydro-rlectric power in mining and
(3) The repair and extension of εxisting railways
the construction of new rail lines required for the mort
rapid transportation of raw materials.
Improvement of harbor facilities at Tsingtao and Tangkt
was lso mentioned as wEll as the development of a new
harbor at Chinwangtao.
Repeated to Chungking and Shanghai, by mail to
Tientsin and air mail to Tokyo.
SMYTH
CSB

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.94)
7么
PA
26
pda
GRAY AND PLAIN
JT
Ea
PEIPING VIA N.R.
Dated November 26, 1940 7
REc'd 3:40 p.m., 27th
SEcretary of State,
Washington.
486, NovembEr 26, 4 p.m.
PEiping's 473, November 22, 4 p.m.
It is believed that thE news despatch from Peiping,
mentioned in paragraph two of the DEpartment's 476,
Hovember 14, 6 p.m. to Tokyo, vas inspired by an articlε
appEaring in thE SEptEmber 20 issuE of thE JapanEsE
C
controlled PEiping CHEN PAO announcing that thE fivE
yEar plan for thE industrial dEvElopment Worth China has
bEEn dressEd up by thE North China liaison officE of the
2
9
Asia Development Board.
893
According to thE CHEN PAO thE plan is to comE into
894.50/1
Effect sometime next yEar for the dual purposE of making
North China sεlf-sufficient in commodities and increasing
thE output of North China coal availablE for usE in Japan,
Menchukuo and CEntral China. Other features of thE plan
126
include.
(1) Increased cotton produotion by means of improved
S
systems of irrigation and reclamation of waste lands.
/FF
(2)

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-486, November 26, 4 p.m., from PEiping
(2) The use of hydroεlectric power in mining and
(3) The rεpair and Extension of Existing railways and
the construction of new rail lines required for the more
rapid transportation of raw materials.
Improvement of harbor facilities at Tsingtao and Tangki
was also mEntioned as wEll as the devElopment of a nEw
harbor at Chinwangtao.
Repeated to Chungking and Shanghai, by mail to
Tientsin and air mail to Tokyo.
SMYTH
CSB

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.94)
pair
TELEGRAMRECEIVED
This telegram must 
closrly paraphrased be
Peiping
fore being communioated
soe
to anyone.
Dated November 27, 1948
FROM
DEC6
Rec'd 2:07 p.m.
MR. HUKNDELK
1940
DE012 1040
NUT FOR PUBLICATION
Divisiom of
FAR EASTERN AFFAURS
Washington.
OFICE OF THE ADVISE
NOV 281940
 O
89, November 27, 3 p.m.
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PEiping'8 486, NovEmbEr 26, 4
With the Exception of a similar article published
last July thE articlE in thE "CH'EIIFAO" is bElievEd to
bE the only other local publicity so far given the five
394.50/127
year plan for North China. The Embassy has not (repeat
not) found in Either of thesE articles any suggestion of
a possiblE shift in economic policy or any evidence of a
rEalization on thE part of thE JapanesE that Earlier
plans were too optimistic.
Although it is obvious that many of the Earlier
plans have failed in application and although Japanrse
spokesmen have from time to time admitted that certain
E
C
FILFD
PS/GO
phases of their Experimental process have not worked
2
9
CIAX AFFAIRS
satisfactorily and should be changed thE fact rEmains
19
40
that during the past two and a half years at least there
been no noticeable abandonment of basio (reprat basic)
Japanese polioy in respect to the Economio exploitation
of China,
(END SEOTION ONE).
TFV
SMYTH

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
olosely paraphrased bE- FROM
Peiping via N. R.
fore bring communioated
to anyone. (br)
Dated November 27, 1940
Rec'd 9:21 a.mo, 28th
Broretary of State,
Washington.
489, NOVEmbEr 27, 3 P.m. (SECTION TWO).
particularly Manchukuo and North China, from time to
time there occur minor ohanges in local rEgulations
and isolated instances of improved treatment accorded
or promised Chinese and commercial interests but the
Embassy knows of no permanent removal or general lighten-
ing of the burden imposed by the principal restrictiong
on practically all forms of normal economic development
in the occupied areas. On the contrary the general
trend is still towards full state control with Japan as
the prinoipal if not the sole beneficiary. The Embassy
herE is of the opinion, therefore, that the announce-
ment in Tokyo of a ten year program for the yen bloo
and the announoement in PEiping of a fivE year plan for
North China should, in thE absencE of developments to
the contrary, be regarded morE as the expression of an
intention to reinforoe existing polioy than as a growing
BEnSE

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 480, Nov. 27, 3 m. (BE0. TwO), from Priping
of rralism in relation to China's coonomio potential.
Sant to the Department. Repeated to Chungking and
Shanghai: By mail to Tientsin and air mail to Tokyo.
(END OF MESSAGE).
BMYTH
TFV

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
PARAPRAASE
A telegram (no. 489) or November 27, 1960, from the
Ameriemn Embasay at Peiping reads subatantially as followel
Peiping
It is believed that the only publicity given so far in
to the five year plan for north China is the artiele in
the Saptember 20 issue of the Gh'anpap (eee telegram
no. 486, November 20, 1940, from Peiping) and a s1miler
artiele whieh was published in July 1940. In neither of
these artieles hae the Embassy found any evidenee on the
pars of the Japanese of s realization that previous plans
were too optimistic or any suggestion of a possible ohange
in economio poliey. Japanese spokesmen have admitted from
time te time that their experimental proeess has not
worked out satlsfaotorily in some respeots and should be
altered, and it is olear that meny of the earlier plens
have not beon suecessful in epplieetion. Hewever, the
fact remnine that at lesst for the pest two end one helf
yeare there has taken place no noticeable abandonment
of basie Japanese polioy with regard to the emonomle
exploitation of Chine, espeelally north Chine mnd "Han-
chukuo". Although there are from time to time isoleted
cases of improved treatment promlsed or given Chinese and
commereial interests and unimportant changes in local
regulations, the Eabassy is not aware that the burden
imposed by the ohief restrictions on almoet all forme of
no01

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
normal seonomic development in the Japanese-odoupied areas
hes been generally lightened or permanently removed.
Imstead the trond in goneral still is in the direotion of
complete contrel by the state with Japan as the prineipal
benefioiery, if not the only one. Therefore, it is the
opinion of the Embassy in Peiping that in the absonoe
of developments to the contrary the announoement in
Peiping of a five year plan for north China end the an-
mouncement in Tokyo of e ten year program for the yen
bloo should be consldered not so much an inereasing sense
of realiem in conneetlon with China's economie potentielity
as the expreesion of an intention to strengthen poliey now
existing.
894.50/127
£.9.0.
FE:EDC: MHP
FE
12/4/40

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
PARAPHRASE
OT FUR FODLOATON
CONFIDENTTAL
A telegram (no. 489) of November 27, 1940, from the
American Embassy at Peiping reads substantially as follows:
Peiping
It is believed that the only publicity given so far in/
to the five year plan for north China is the article in
the September 20 issue of the Ch'enpao (see telegram
no. 486, November 26, 1940, from Peiping) and a similar
article which was published in July 1940. In neither of
these articles has the Embassy found any evidence on the
part of the Japanese of a realization that previous plans
were too optimistic or any suggestion of a possible change
in economic policy. Japanese spokesmen have admitted from
time to time that their experimental process has not
worked out satisfactorily in some respects and should be
altered, and it is clear that many of the earlier plans
have not been successful in application. However, the
fact remains that at least for the past two and one half
years there has taken place no noticeable abandonment
of basic Japanese policy with regard to the economic
exploitation of China, especially north China and "Man-
chukuo". Although there are from time to time isolated
cases of improved treatment promised or given Chinese and
commercial interests and unimportant changes in local
regulations, the Embassy is not aware that the burden
imposed by the chief restrictions on almost all forms of
normal

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
normal economic development in the Japanese-occupied areas
has been generally lightened or permanently removed.
Instead the trend in general still is in the direction of
complete control by the state with Japan as the principal
beneficiary, if not the only one. Therefore, it is the
opinion of the Embassy in Peiping that in the absence
of developments to the contrary the announcement in
Peiping of a five year plan for north China and the an-
nouncement in Tokyo of a ten year program for the yen
bloc should be considered not so much an increasing sense
of realism in connection with China's economic potentiality
as the expression of an intention to strengthen policy now
existing.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Potential economic pressure on Japan by United States and
Great Britain.
Copy of memorandum giving information on warning issued by
Japanese Foreign Ministry to Japanese representatives in
Central and South America during October, 1940, relating
to -.
894.50/128
mjd
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ...
November 251940
Justice Department (Hoover)
To
894.20210/71
File No.
S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1540
89

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese economic missioa. The- is returning to Japan after
more thana month's conversation with Government General.
It os reported that the Japanese economic mission did not get
as much as it desired.
fp
894.50
For the original paper from which reference is taken
29
See
Tel. 50- 1lam
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Nov. 27,1940
From) Saigon (Hanoi)
Dated
851g.51694/2
File No.
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE I-1B40
22

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Economic negotiations between Jpan-Indochina.
Information from strong editorial in NICHI NICHI of
December 2 concerning delay in,- States,- are radically
different ordinary commercial negotiations.Japan
urged to assume aggressive diplomatic attitude towards
Netherland Indies to facilitate prompt adoption of Japan's
demands.
894.50/130
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel 126110 PM
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ....
..D.c..2..1940
Japan(Grew)
To
File No.
851g.50/10
U. S. COYERNNINT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
3
0

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
/6141
JuB
To noto briefly.
The flan is not only
grandione, huL Contam
litite that is venr to ua, if
any thing.
2mg

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5200
Tokyo, December 11, 1940
SUBJECT: PLAN FOR ECONOMIC CONSTRUCTION OF JAPAN
fle
ÉPAR  ATE
58
3
EED
1.11
7
894.50/131
2
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington
JAN 9 1941
894.50/123A
FLED
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's tele-
14
gram 476, November 15, 6 p.m., ond this Embassy's 1175,
November 20, 6 p.m. relative to the Outline of a Ten Year Plan
for the Economic Construction of the "Japan-Manchukuo-China
Bloc" announced on November 5, 1940.
PSG C
There is attached hereto a copy of an article which
appeared in the December, 1940, issue of the Tokyo Gasette,
entitled
131

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
entitled, "Summary of the Program for Economic Construction
Embracing Japan, Manchukuo and China", as announced by the
Cabinet Information Bureau on November 5, 1940. The Tokyo
Gasette is published monthly by the Tokyo Gasette Publishing
House under the supervision of the Cabinet Information Bureau.
Its contents therefore may well be considered official.
Under my Despatch No. 5161, November 22, 1940,
there was transmitted the Commercial Attache's Weekly Economic
Report No. 20 dated November 18, 1940, which dealt entirely
with this new Ten Year Economic Plan.
A careful study of the attached official statement
does not reveal any evidence of a realization on the part of
the Japanese that earlier plans for economic construction of
the so-called yen bloc were too optimistic. On the contrary
this new plan appears to be an intensified reiteration of the
anticipated permanency of Japan's dominating position in the
Far East. It envisages a closely kmit well organized economic
unit so rationalized industrially, financially and commercially
as to insure the peak of productive capacity within this bloo
and the building up and maintenance of an adequate defense force.
This may appear to foreigners as only another grandiose scheme,
but to the group now formulating Japan's future policies it re-
presents something real and vital, something leng anticipated
and cherished, and something which they consider worth risking
the destiny of Japan.
The Cabinet Planning Board is now engaged in preparing
a

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
a plan for the new National Eoonomic Structure of Japan.
When such a plan is completed and officially adopted it will
undoubtedly form a basis for this Ten Year Scheme, for
Japan mest first perfect her own economy so that it can
ast as a foundation for the broader and more extensive pro-
gram embracing Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, and eventually
Greater East Asia.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
rsw/mp
Distribution:
Original and 2 copies to Department

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
SUMMARY OF THE PROGRAM FOR ECONOMIC CONSTRUCTION EMBRACING
JAPAN, "MANCHUKUO" AND CHINA
- Announced by the Cabinet Information
Bureau on November 5, 1940 -
BASIC PURPOSES
Now that the fundamental national policy of establishing
the Greater East Asia sphere of common prosperity, which aims
at the construction of a new world order, has entered upon a
new phase with the conclusion of the Three-Power Pact between
Japan, Germany and Italy, the Government, at a recent session
of the Cabinet Council, have decided on the Summary of the
Program for Economic Construction Embracing Japan, "Manchukuo"
and China, with a view to coping with new developments in the
situation, and intend hereafter to carry out national policies
consistently in conformity with that fundamental national pur-
pose. The objective of the new policy is to realize unprece-
dented progress in the Greater East Asiatic sphere of common
prosperity based upon a comprehensive economic development of
the three countries, in accordance with a new outlook on the
economic order.
The world economic system of free trade resting upon the
basic assumption that people and nations everywhere can freely
exchange goods is in the process of disintegration. Accordingly,
the Japanese system is also called upon to reorganize on a
new basis discarding the old structure which is dependent on
the old order. In this reorganization, however, Japanese
economy must be made a higher, broader and stronger structure,
capable

=== Page 158 === (confidence 1.00)
capable of leading the people of East Asia to improve their liv-
ing conditions and to find their respective places in the new
world order. What is meant here by "higher" is that the power
of life in possession of our nation must be made to create a
higher productivity; by "broader" is meant that the sphere of
mutual economic dependence must be extended from that of Japan,
"Manchukuo" and China to that of Greater East Asia and must be
firmly established, and by "stronger" is meant that impregnable
economic strength able to meet any situation must be maintained
by keeping the extent to which Japanese economy is dependent
upon other countries to a minimum. To this end sufferings
attendant on efforts of renovation must be overcome internally
and any pressures and threats from outside be repulsed, by
uniting all the forces and resources of the nation and by a
determined will. Thus a new East Asiatic economic order under
Japanese leadership must be established within about ten years.
In this East Asiatic order alone, the economic system not only
of "Manchukuo" and China but also of other countries of East
Asia can be expected to improve and develop to the highest
extent.
ESSENTIALS OF BASIC PRINCIPLES
For the purpose of realizing the task of constructing a
new East Asiatic order and thereby ensuring the lasting peace
of the world, the processes of the renovation of her internal
structure and of the enlargement and organization of her living
sphere must be brought into perfect unity. Her basic economic
policies must accordingly be established upon the organized
planning of the three following processes:
1. Perfection

=== Page 159 === (confidence 1.00)
1. Perfection of the reorganization of national
economy.
2. Organization and strengthening of Japanese-
"Manchukuo"-Chinese economy.
3. Enlarged organization of the East Asiatic sphere
of common prosperity.
BASIC LINES OF POLICY
1. The objective of the program for economic construction
embracing Japan, "Manchukuo" and China is to establish a
self-supporting, self-sufficient economic structure within
about ten years, in order to strengthen the position of East
Asia in the world economy by accelerating the construction of
the East Asiatic sphere of common prosperity.
2. Guiding principles on which Jupan is to undertake
the economic construction program embracing the three countries
lie in the promotion of the general welfare in an ideal state
of co-existence and common rosperity through the unitary
cooperation of the three countries, in accordance with the
high and broad spirit of "Hakko Itiu".
3. In order to expedite the economic construction Japan
will endeavor to uplift the morale of the nation, renovate the
internal structure, augment national strength while rendering
assistance to the economic reconstruction of "Manchukuo" and
China. For this purpose she will strive for the promotion of
science and technique and undertake the development of pioneer
industries.
4. "Manchukuo", being in an inseparable relationship with
Japan

=== Page 160 === (confidence 1.00)
Japan, is expected to swiftly perfect and develop important
basic industries.
5. China is expected to develop her resources and re-
construct her economic system in collaboration with Japan and
"Manchukuo"; in particular, progress in communications and
transport services, smooth exchange of goods, and development
of essential industries and resources are called for. Thus
she is expected to contribute to the establishment of the East
Asiatic sphere of common prosperity.
6. With a view to adjusting and accelerating the or-
ganized planning of economic construction embracing Japan,
"Manchukuo" and China the administrative machinery relating
thereto shall be speedily perfected.
PRACTICAL POLICIES
In view of the fact that Japan, "Manchukuo" and China
constitute the backbone of the East Asiatic sphere of common
prosperity, having thereby the duty to regulate economic rela-
tions on the basis of their closest union, the government
has decided on essential policies in respect to spheres of
industrial activity, labor, finance and banking, exchange,
and communications and transport covering the three countries.
Spheres of Industrial Activity
In determining spheres of industrial activity, the condi-
tions peculiar to the three countries and their respective
phases of economic development should be considered, thereby
effecting

=== Page 161 === (confidence 1.00)
effecting decisions from the comprehensive point of view and
treating them as an organic whole.
Viewed in that light, Japan should hereafter strive for
the promotion of the highest type of precision industry as
well as mechanical industry while endeavoring to develop basic
industries, such as the heavy, chemical and mining industries.
"Manchukuo" is expected to make an epoch-making advance
in the mining industry and in electrical undertakings. For
the development of her heavy and chemical industries Japan is
prepared to offer necessary assistance.
China is expected to develop her mining and salt indus-
tries and to undertake large-scale production of raw materials.
Since her natural conditions afford much room for the develop-
ment of heavy and chemical industries, progress along that
line is also expected hereafter.
The development of light industries on the Continent
must be greatly promoted. In this connection, it is necessary
that Japan should readjust her light industries, particularly
the fiber and miscellaneous industries. Their removal to
the Continent must be seriously considered.
With regard to agriculture in Japan, measures will be
taken for the improvement of various systems relating to land,
renovation of farm management, betterment and security of the
living of farmers and ensuring of the staple food of the
people as well as the maintenance of definite numbers in the
farm population. Measures will also be taken, in this connec-
-tion

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
tion, for the steady development of fishery enterprises and
for the rationalization, utilization and conservation of
forest resources.
With regard to agriculture in Manchuria, in view of the
position of that area as a base for the supply of foodstuffs
and fodder for Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, and as the
source of supply to the world of special agricultural pro-
ducts, the increase to the fullest extent of agricultural
production is expected. For the purpose of this development,
the migration of Japanese agricultural settlers will be
facilitated. In respect to agriculture in Cnina, efforts
for the assurance of the staple food of the nation must be
made. The increase of the production of cotton and other
staples is also urgent.
Labor
In order to hold a predominant position in world economy,
the place of labor and technique will become increasingly
important. For this purpose, their structure in Japan must be
radically revised. Moreover, labor power available in each
of the East Asiatic countries and regions must be enabled to
make its contribution to the improvement of the whole labor
force, thereby maintaining the superiority of the East Asia
sphere in worla economy. With this in view Japan intends to
perfect a new structure in labor and technique, endeavoring to
train and build up the bodies and minds of workers, to provide
a thoroughgoing scientific education, to heighten the producti-
-vity

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
vity of labor, and to train technicians and skilled workers.
Thus the economic construction of "Manchukuo" and China will
be accelerated and assisted as required by the two countries;
"Manchukuo" and China will be supplied with technicians and
skilled workers capable and necessary for their industrial
development and economic construction. Needless to say, the
two countries themselves have to train those types of men in
view of the importance of technique. It is further required
of "Manchukuo" that she should plan not merely for the migration
to and settlement in the country of labors from North China
but for the establishment of measures for the self-sufficiency
of labor as well as the improvement of its management, in
particular, in the mining industry.
Finance and Banking
With a view to expediting the construction of national
defence economy, the function of finance and banking also should
be made to conform to the national purpose. In other words,
it should so function that the materials required by the
State may be ensured in quality as well as in quantity. In
order to make possible the execution of an industrial pro-
gram embracing Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, the distribution
of capital must be determined according to an organized plan
and a system equal to that task be set up. In that connection,
there must be perfected a financial mechanism facilitating the
storing of staple goods, in keeping with the progress of
teohnique, along with the creation of spheres of industrial
activity

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
activity, and with changes in industrial equipment. Capital
required for the three countries must of course be supplied by
their own accumulation. To this end measures must be taken
by the three countries for the increase and efficient utuliza-
tion of such accumulation. With regard to capital necessary
for the development of essential industries, Japan is prepared
to give assistance in its supply. And the relationship of
mutual assistance in international settlements should be
established between the three countries as their economic re-
lations become increasingly closer.
Exchange
In respect to exchange in the coming new world order, the
principle of commercial trade of the past must be revised to
a considerable extent; there must emerge the principle of
productive trade, which enables each country, region and
economic sphere to supply to others goods required by them in
exchange for the goods necessary for its own planned production;
and which regulates trade between those countries and regions,
not to speak of that between Japan, "Manchukuo" and China,
in such a manner as will create a mutual, unitary relationship.
In so doing, a special agreement for payments between those
countries and regions will be required, with a view to
facilitating the closer flow of goods between them.
Communications and Transport
With the closer flow of goods between Japan, "Manchukuo"
and China as well as between the regions in the sphere of common
prospority

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
prosperity, systems of communications and transport between
the three countries must be perfected and operated by a com-
prehensive and organized plan, thereby ensuring the security
of the whole of the sphere. Accordingly, the connection
between land and sea transport services of the three countries
must be expedited; a large-scale increase in shipping, control
of and connection between air lines, as well as the perfection
and extension of electric communication facilities, must be
planned.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
PARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 7, 1941
Tokyo's despatoh no. 5245, December 24,
1940, "Japanese Program for Agricultural Pro-
duotion in North China Under the 'Ten-Year
Economic Construction Plan for Japan,
'Manchukuo' and China -- Press Reports".
The despatch encloses a newspaper clipping
(Domei from Peiping) reporting plans to make
north China independent of foreign cotton, and
also to increase her supply of cereals; in
order to further this program the North China
Farm Land Development Company will be organized
with a capital of thirty million yen.
894.50/132
MR. HUNBECK
14.7
FEB 14 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE:Fales:HNS

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
PA
OF THE
ACA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, December 24, 1940.
No. 5245.
SUBJECT: JAPANESE PROGRAM FOR AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION IN
NORTH CHINA UNDER THE "TEN-YEAR ECONOMIC CONSTRUCTION
PLAN FOR JAPAN, "MANCHUKJO" AND CHINA -- PRESS REPORTS.
Cohry in 7E,
File
2
Hif
An EAST
PA
894.50/132
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER U
20
INTERNAUNAL FRS
COMMERCIAL AFPAIRS
GFEB 21 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL
MR. HOKYBELK
FEB 14 1941
PS/FF
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FEB
124
FILED
Sir:
2
In continuation of the Embassy's reporting to the
19
941
Department (Embassy's telegram no. 1175, November 20
DCA
6 p.m., despatohes nos. 5161, November 22, and 5200,
December 1l,) regarding the "Ten-Year Economic Construotion
Plan for Japan, Manchukuo and China", I have the honor
1/
to transmit herewith a clipping captioned "North China
Now Ready to Increase Cotton" whioh appeared in the
December

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
December 19 issue of the JAPAN TIMES AND ADVERTISER.
The article is based on a Domei news agency report from
Peiping setting forth a general outline of the Japanese
program for North China in the agricultural sphere of
activity under the Ten-Year Economic Plan and dealing
with the purpose and objective of this program.
North China, according to the report, as has already
been announced has been assigned the role of increasing
the production of raw cotton, wheat and miscellaneous
cereals such as millet, kaoliang and corn. The focal
point and primary objective of the assignment is the
freeing of the entire "Japan-Manchukuo-China bloc", from
dependence on the United States and other foreign countries
for raw cotton and whe at. It is explained that Japan in-
stead of as hitherto relying on American and European
countries for raw cotton for its textile industries will
look to the "East Asia Prosperity Sphere" for an adequate
supply of these materials. Although the article does not
mention the fact, it will also be recalled that under the
ten-year economic plan it is envisaged that the textile
industry is eventually to be removed from Japan to China,
particularly to North China, and accordingly in such an
eventuality under this program North China will only be
Aly defeurh
dependent upon itself for the raw materials for its textile
industry.
The report states that prior to the outbreak of
hostilities in China raw cotton production in North
China ranged from 4,500,000 to 5,000,000 piculs annually
(a picul

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(a picul equals 133-1/3 pounds). By 1950 it is planned
to expand the production to 10,000,000 piculs. The North
China Cotton Improvement Association, operating under the
instructions of the Government authorities is to organize
and direct this program.
With regard to the production of wheat in North China
the report states that the program calls for an increase
of 15,000,000 piculs within the next ten years. This amount
it is deemed will amply cover the deficit of wheat in that
area which in the past has had to be made up by imports of
from 7,500,000 to 10,000,000 piculs annually, bought from
Japan,Central China, North America and Australia. It is
further s tated in this respect that by this increase the
production in wheat in North China will be raised from
the present estimated figure of l32 million piculs for a
normal year to 147,000,000 piculs.
In the rest of the report there is submitted informa-
tion and statistics regarding the projected increase in the
production of the other cereals mentioned and plans for
agricultural land development in North China.
Respectfully yours,
710
JE:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Original and 3 copies to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
7

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 5245 dated December 24, 1940
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Japan Times and Advertiser.
Tokyo, Thursday, Dec. 19, 1940.
N. CHINA NOW READY
To Beost Cereals
Under the "10-year Economic Oon-
struction Plan for Japan, Manchoukuo
TO INCREASE COTTON
and China" which wes announced some
time ago, the role North China is to
play is to increase output of raw cot-
ton, wheat, the staple food for the
inhabitants of North China, and of mis-
cellaneous cereals, such as millct, kao-
New Plans to Expand Produc-
liang and corn. For this task, the
North China authorities are new pre-
tivity Outlined—Greater Out-
paring plans which are to be earried
put of Cereals Also Assured
out by the end of 1950. Wben these
plans materialize, North China will at-
tain a near-perfect self-sufficiency
TO RESTORE SUFFICIENCY
in agricultural foods and at the same
time, would be placed in a strong posi-
tion to constitute an important source
of materials, particularly raw cotton,
Ten-Year Program for Wheat
in the East Asia Co-properity Sphere.
Aims at Annual Yield of
Of all the plans, the one to increase
production of raw cotton is considered
147,000,000 Piculs
especially important, since Japan,
which had hitherto been relying on
American and European countries for
North China's previous dependence
textile materials, will henceforth be
cn American and European countries
required to obtain an adequate supply
for raw cotton suppiy is to be marked-
of the materials within the said sphere.
ly lessened, and greater concentration
To Restore Pre-war Levels
on securing an adequate amount of
The raw cotton production in North
textile materials within the East Asia
China ranged from 4,500,000 to 5,000,000
Co-prosperity Sphere is the basic aim
piculs prior to the outbreak of the
of the 10-year Economic Construction
China affair. The warfare has reduced
plan for Japan. Manchoukuo and China,
the production considerably, but the
according to a Domei report from Pek-
rehabilitation work is now rapidly pro-
ing.
gresasing and it is expected that the
At the same time, North China's plan
pre-war levels will be restored within
to expand its-agricultural productive
the next few years. The 1-year cot-
capacity has cme to assume greater
ton production increase plan of North
importance as speedy realization of au-
China is being carried on with the
tarchic economic policy is demanded in
North China Cotton Improvement As-
conjunction with the task of establish-
sociation as the nucleus organ, which
ing the Sast Asia Co-prosperity Sphere
is operating under the instructions of
and the sharply changed interna-
the Government authorities.
tional situation. The authorities of
North China are thus strenuously
Under the present cotton production
drafting various schemes on the basis
increase plan, the annnal raw cotton
of land planning in Japan, Manchou-
output in North China  tu be ex-
kuo and China, while the existing
panded to 10,000.000 picula by 190.
plans, which were adopted to restore
the agricultural productive capacity of
North China has always been far
North China to the pre-China affair
from being gelf-sufficient in wheat.
level, are either being revised or
Annually it imports 15,000,000 to ),-
strengthened in confornity with the
000,0:0 bags of. wheat flour 67,500,009 to
new international  situation. These
10,003,000 piculs in teems of wheat).
"North China agrieultural productive
Prior to the outbreak of the China
oapacity xpansion plans" may be sum-
affair, North China bought
Sest flour
med up as dollowa:

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
America and Australia, but it now
improve land in the region, with
purchases this esséntial foodstuff main-
Ly from Japan. This excessive de-
pendency of North China on foreign
for the establishment of a land deve-
countries for staple food invariably
lopment company under the Sino-
renders the economic position of the
Japanese plan is worthy of mention
region basically frail, especially at
This company is expected to be capi-
this moment, when the structure of de-
tolized at 30,000,000,, and will asmume
mand and. supply of foodstuffs in gen-
the title of the North China Farm
eral is somewhat dislocated, causing
Lsnd Development Company (Kahoku
a certain amount of uneasiness among
Nochi Kaihatsu Kaisha). Aocording to
the people. In order to solve the
the land plan highly developed Japa-
undesirable
situationconfronting
nese scientific technique will be
North China, it is held essential
employed to improve vast alkali
to ensure a smooth supply of food-
flat and other waste lands which
stuffs. For this end, the present agri-
lie in North Cnina. It is under-
cultural products increase plan is aim-
stood that the proposed company will
ed, among other things, at raising the
be operated to create 85,000 hectares (1
annual wheat production by 15,000,030
hectar equals 2,471 acres) of paddy rice
piculs within the next 10 years. This
ffelds and approximately 480,000 hec-
means that the wheat production in
tares of dry farms for cotton, wheat
North China, which is now estimated
and sundry cereal crops within the
at 132,000,000 piculs for a normal year.
next five years.
will be increased to 147,000,000 piculs.
Miscellaneous Cereals Listed
Besides wheat flour, North China an-
nually imports nearly half a million
tons of miscellaneous cereals, such as
millet, kaoliang and corn as focds for
the agrarian population and the lower
classes of people. In order to meet the
shortage in supply at hcme of these
miscellaneous cereals, the present plan
calls for a boost of 15,000,000 piculs in
an annual combined output of these
produce by the end of 1950. According
to the plan, an annual production of
millet, which is at preserit 81,800,000 pi-
culs, will be increased to 86,300,000 pi-
culs, while that of kaoliang will be
augmented by 3.500,000 piculs from the
present 66,500,000 .piculs to 70,000,000.
Production of corn which is at present
at 3.400,000 piculs for a normal crop
year, will be raised to the 46,800,000
mark. In addition, the output of rice
will be brought up to 2.100,000 koku (a
koku is about 50 (bushels) in order to
meet the increasing Japanese popula-
tlon in the region. Today, North China
iimports some 350,000 koku of rice from
Top effective and speedy realization
of the agricultural production increase
plan, the North China authorities, in
pse oo-operation with the Japancse
Gcvesnment officials, are planning to

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 25, 1941
CO:
Tokyo's despatch 5284, January 15, 1941
"East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere".
In Contemporary Japan, January 1941, Kame-
kichi Takahashi attempts to explain and defend
the East Asiatic co-prosperity sphere on
historic and economic grounds.
He states that the Western powers, partio-
ularly Britain and the United States, have
retarded the economic development of the Far
East through their interests directed to the
development of the sources of raw materials in
which the powers are deficient, and by obstruct-
ing the development of industries which would
induce economic independence. The East Asiatio
co-prosperity sphere will emancipate this area
from its present dependent state.
The Embassy points out that although Japan
is expecting to follow the course of exploita-
tion which she condemns in the Western powers,
still the article will have a strong appeal to
the Japanese public who are eager to find a
foreign scapegoat to bear the onus for the
present ills of Japanese economy.
894.50/133
M7
FE:Fales:HNS

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FORDIGN SERVICE
RECETVEHE
1941 FED 12 PM 2 25
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, January 15, 1941.
No. 5284.
SUBJECT:
EAST ASIATIC CO-PROSPERITY SPHERE.
14.719
pivision of
orles
TEE 13 1941
Department of Staa
894.50/1
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTFRNANONAL ECONUMIC AFRURS
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
GVMAR-31941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION
Cohy in 7, E,
33
101 SA.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
MAR 5E1941
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to submit the following digest of
an article appearing in the January, 194l, issue of
CONTEMPORARY JAPAN entitled "Economic Significance of
the East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere" by Kamekichi
PS/DB
Takahashi, a Japanese writer on economic subjects. The
attempt to explain the Japanese concept of that often
repeated but little understood slogan, "East Asiatio
Co-Prosperity Sphere", and to defend it on historical
and
4.0

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
and economic grounds appears to be of some interest.
As his primary thesis, the author maintains that
the Western Powers, particularly Great Britain and the
United States, have exerted economic and political pressure
to retard the economic development of the Far East and to
render its economy subservient to the needs of their own.
Western interests, it is stated, have been guided by this
principle in such major activities in this region as develop-
ment of natural resources, launching of industrial enter-
prises, negotiation of commercial treaties and customs agree-
ments, extension of communication facilities, application
of international agreements for the control of labor con-
ditions and the organization of the banking system. It
is alleged, without citing any concrete examples, that
those Powers have pursued a policy of encouraging the
production of such raw materials as are essential to their
needs, principally agricultural but including certain mater-
ials in which they are deficient, such as tungsten and tin,
and of intentionally obstructing the development of those
resources which would be conducive to independent industrial
progress in this region such as coal, iron and other mineral
resources. With, possibly, a measure of justification, it
is pointed out that Occidentals generally have viewed with
complacence the low-wage scales in effect in East Asiatic
countries but have nevertheless become extremely critical
of those same wage-scales when the affected industries
compete with similar Western industries.
To emerge
1

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
To emerge from the present subordinate position in
world economy to which Western machinations have confined
it, East Asia must concentrate on the expansion of heavy
industries (notably engineering and chemical) and the per-
fection of industrial technique in order to be able to ex-
ploit its own natural resources in defiance of external
pressure and obstruction. The author points to the advance
in the dye industry and to the perfection of superior spin-
ning and weaving machines in Japan (relieving the country
of dependence upon second-rate spinning and weaving machines
formerly imported from Britain) as examples of the progress
already made in the desired direction of industrial inde-
pendence. Outside Japan proper, the development of water
power resources in Chosen, Taiwan, and Manchuria, and the
exploitation of deposits in Chosen and Manchuria of iron,
non-ferrous metals, light metals, gola, silver and coal are
enumerated as similarly encouraging beginnings.
Proceeding from the forthright accusation that "the
traditional policy of Great Britain and the United States
is aimed at vigorously thwarting the autonomous growth of
East Asiatic economy", the author concludes that "it is
essential at this stage of development of international
affeirs for it (East Asia) to establish itself as a clear-
cut unit in the economic structure of the world".
Deploring the past efforts of the Western interests
to "impede the organic union of the industry, natural
resources and markets of this region", the author maintains
that,

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
that, while the attainment of the objeotives of the
"East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere" will emancipate the
economy of this area from its present, dependent, semi-
colonial state and will necessarily involve great changes
in the international division of labor and in international
trade relations, the consequent rise in living standards of
East Asiatic peoples will, after a period of transition and
adjustment, open an enlarged market to the merchandise of
Western countries and thereby benefit Western economy in
the long run.
However fallacious may appear the premises upon which
this article is based and the reasoning by which its argu-
ment is developed, it is nevertheless quite certain that
this thesis has a strong appeal to numerous Japanese who
are, quite naturally, eager to seize upon a foreign scape-
goat to bear the onus for the present ills of Japanese
economy, warped as it is by the necessity of sacrificing
the everyday needs and comforts of the people to the demands
of an insatiable war machine.
As applied to Japan, the argument of Western oppression
is obviously untenable. Any lag in the progress of its heavy
industries, it should be frankly admitted, reflects not ex-
ternal restraints but the simple fact that Japan is a late-
comer in the community of industrial nations and, moreover,
is seriously handicapped by a deficiency within the country
of essential natural resources. While not granting the
validity, even as applied to the non-Japanese portion of
the

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
the projected "sphere", of the charge of obstructive
exploitation levelled against Western interests, it
appears fairly obvious that Japan must follow precisely
the policy which it deplores in others in order to attain
the objectives of its projecteā bloc economy. How can
Japan, itself poor in natural resources, expect to fulfill
its role as industrial center and organizing head of the
bloc unless the manner of exploitation of natural resources
in the entire area is made to conform to the requirements
of Japanese inaustry? In view of its inperialistic recora,
moreover, it is difficult to imagine that Japan would be
averse to succeeding to the rights and interests of the
Western Powers, whose activities are so harshly condemned,
and even vastly extending the field of foreign (though
Japanese) exploitation to suit its purposes.
In the grandiose schemes for the creation of an
economic bloc to embrace the entire Far East, the author
appears to overlook the fact that, after coping with
the opposition to be expected from the Western interests
now being unceremoniously evicted, Japan must still win
the effective cooperation of the other peoples in the
Far East if its program is to succeed. It is evident
that, in spite of three and a half years of inconclusive
warfare on an unprecedentedly large front in China, the
Japanese are still unwilling to entertain any misgivings
concerning the whole-hearted cooperation, political and
economic

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
economic, to be expected from its partners in the
projected "East Asiatic Co-Prosperity Sphere".
Respectfully yours,
710
Joseph C. Grew.
CAC:C
Original and 4 copies to Department.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.86)
ACR
to
Federal Burean of Investigation
FE
Anited States Bepartment pf
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
ashington, B. 
Aca
AR25 1941
March 21, 1941
FC
O
MAR  194
NY CPECTAD MESSENTER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
til
894.50/134
Assistant Secretary of State
MAR 24 1941
Department of State
Mashington, D. C.
1.%
4.1.4
ry dear ir. berle:
is oo os stle intan t to you, thore io
tranvmiuted berewith  photostatic copy of wecent
memormdum which cont ine infor e tion coneerain
materinl recources in m.
HAR
DIVISION OF
e
20. 200ver
PS
C
H
nclosure
S
State
cc - 0 n
APR3
Director, Mav l Tnt i mace
FILED
Nevy De artment
Pashin ton, D. C.
169
11os
Bri gadier deneral Fneron
As. istant Chief of oterf
G-2, aor Dooart cent
Warhin ton, D. C.
DECLASSIFIED
Justice DepartmentGuidclines, 1-27-1984
By RTG
NARS, Dato 5-16.1984

=== Page 180 === (confidence 1.00)
JAPAN: MATERIAL RESOURCES.
STAPLE FIBRE.
With the severe restrictions imposed on the
use of cotton and the manufacture of cotton cloth
for domestic consumption, the Japanese were forced
to use more and more 'staple fibre' in their
textiles. Staple fibre is publicized as the
"National Fibre", and it was intended to take the
place of cotton entirely in the Japanese home and
clothing.
However; even the production of stable fibre
has been badly affected by the scarcity of labour,
power and coal in Japan. As the following table
showing production from January 1939 to June, 1940
inclusive, plainly shows:
1939 January
24,028,000 1bs.
February
23,040,000
March
20,549,000
hpril
23,432,000
May
22,314,000
June
22,354,000
July
21,465,000
August
21,156,000
September
19,414,000
October
16,742,000
November
15,984,000
December
16,286,000

=== Page 181 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
1940
January
15,569,000 1bs
February
16,041,000
16,214,000
March
April
20,060,000
May
20,100,000
June
20,058,000
Production in March 1938 was 39,000,000 1bs;
output in January 1939 was a 40% decrease
At the beginning of 1939 there was a great
scarcity of pulp, with the result that even the
'national fibre' was striotly controlled in its
distribution. But from October because of the lack
of coal, etc., output, and distribution had to be
controlled again.
Staple fibre is still more or less in its
infant stage, and its quality can be greatly im-
proved. But there has been no time to do this
in Japan, so that all fabrics in which it is in-
cluded are very faulty and inferior. It has been
used principally as a substitute for cotton, but so
far it has not been so adaptable.
In the production of 1 ton of staple fibre,
the Japanese use:
1.2 tons of rayon pulp
.95 tons of caustic soda
1.5 tons of sulphuric acid
35 tons of carbon bisulfide
3
tons of other chemicals, and
8
tons of coal,which includes the
amount used for generating
electric power for the entire
process.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Shoes with tops made of staple fibre have been
selling in Japan at Y.l0 a pair, but they have worn
very badly, the fibre weakening when it is wet.
The principal manufacturers of rayon are also
the principal manufacturers of staple fibre.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Failure of the new economic structure, Comunistic
elements in the new economic structure, and the
unsatisfactory character of the Imperial Bule
Assistance Association:
Criticism of the Govt by Mr Akaike, member of the
House of Peers, regarding -.
mn
894.50
y135
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tol # 134, 11 p.m.
See
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
Jan. 28, 1941
From) Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
894.00/ 997
File No.
P
U. 8. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.97)
REASTERN AFFAIRS
January 3, 1941
Naval Intelligence report
180, October 30, 1940, from
Pokyo entitled "Japanese Economic
Aotivities in the South Seas Area".
The report contains its own
summary on page 1.
The report quotes an article in
the Asahi Weekly which lists the
economic and natural resources of
the South Seas area and gives the
names of Japanese firms developing
the resources in the various
localities.
47
FE:Fales:MHP
894.50

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AF
JSSUBD BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
OFFICE OF CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
DEC 27 1940
NAVY DEPARTMENT
100-105
Serial
Monograph Index Guide No.
(Start new series each year, 1. e. 1-40, 2-40)
Naval Attache
Tokyo
30 Oetober
From
at
Date
19.
(Ship, fleet, unit, district, office, station, or person)
Reference
DIVISION
Publication
AND RECORDS
Reliable
Source
Evaluation
(As official, personal observation, publications, press, conversation with-identify
(As reliable, doubtful, unverified, etc.)
Japan
of influence
Subject
(Nation reported on)
(Main title as per index guide)
(Subtitles)
(Make separate report for esch title)
Baimr.-(Here enter careful summary of report, containing substance succinctly stated; include important facts, names, places, dates, etc.)
JAPANESE ECONOMIC ACTIVITIE3 IN TH OUTH GEAS AREA
Japanese investments in the South Seas area (Philippines,
East Indies, Thailand, British Malaya, etc.), are estimated to
be 250,000,000. This report is a brief of Japanese enterprises
in those regions as recently outlined by Mr. Soji Okada in the
"Asahi Weekly".
Japan's "Southward Advance Polioy" which is already well
underway is designed to increase Japan's holdings in this area
BOSLGSIFEO
LO. 11052. Bec. 3) d 59
36
OD Latter, Noy 3. 1578
2/13/
H H Smith-Hutton,
Lieut-Comdr., U.S.Navy,
Naval Attaohe
PS/JHS
MAR 24 1941
FILED
Um th
show routing not provided for on this form, use blank boxes.
00-30
00-16-1
F-1,F-2,F-3,F-4,P-5,F-6,F-7,F-8,B-3,B-4,B-8
A-B-C-D-E-F-X-Z
Mone-
srapb
Archirga
Badgot
Board
Gen'l
Sec. Nav.
Invats.
Of.
War
M.I.D.
H.O.
Nev.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.& S.
Aera.
U.S.M.C.
C. in C.
U.S
Bat. Fer.
Com
Sco. Fer.
Com.
C. in C.
A.F.
Com.
Atren.
Com
F.A.
Attaché at
0p-10/11
0p-12
0p.-13
Op-14
Op.-20
Op.-21
Op.-22
Op.-23
Op.-30
0p.-38
Com-
Chil

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 180
100 - Political
Japan
105 - Spheres of Influence
30 October 1940
JAPANESE ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES IN THE SOUTH SEAS
AREA
Japan's Southward Advance Policy is making rapid
strides, and in typical Japanese fashion is being accomplished
by e combination of military economic steps designed to obtain
holdings and then to consolidate them. At the moment, Japan
is carrying on conversations with the French in Indo China
and the Dutch in the East Indies to obtain essential materials
in order to minimize the effects of further American-British
economic pressure. For all practical purposes the Japanese
can be said to control French Indo China economically and
strategically. The Dutch are proving harder to win over,
but since they cannot be sure of United States support and
Great Britain is now unable to give more than nominal assist-
ance, Japan will no doubt in the very near future obtain
important economic concessions from Batavia.
That Japan is preparing to consolidate and defend her
newly won gains, is shown by the fact that air bases have
been or are being established in Tongking,Cambodia, and the
Spratley Islands and permission to use the naval bases in Hanoi
and Kamranh Bay are being obtained from the French. It is
only & que stion of a few months before the Japanese will be
within easy striking distance of Malaya, Borneo, and Java.
Japanese investments in the South Sea area already
amount to the consideraple sum of ¥250,000,000. These consist
of interest in various mines, plantations, and lumber and
fishing enterprises. The foilowing is an outline of the
most important Japanese interests as published in an article
in the "Asahi Weekly" written by Soji Okada, one of Japan's
well known economists.
Petroleum: The production of petroleum in the Dutch
East Indies is so completely monopolized by European and
American capital that Japanese interests have almost no share
in its development. However, the Borneo Petroleum Company,
an affiliate of the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, and the Nippon
Petroleum Company have been prospecting for oil on the
eastern coast of Dutch Borneo for the past ten years without
success thus far.
Tin: Two tin mines in British Malaya, owned by the Ishi-
hara Industry and Navigation Company, are not being operated et
the present time. The Mitsubishi Mining Company and the Nanyo
Kogyo Kaisha, however, are each operating a tin mine in Thailand.
Iron: Japenese capital enjoys & monopolistic position in
the production of iron in the South Sees inasmuch as the Western
Powers are not much interested in the exploitation of iron
deposits so remote from them. The most important source of
iron ore supply in this region to Japan's iron and steel
industry is British Malaya where the Ishihara Industry and
Navigation Co., the Nippon Mining Co., the South Seas Iron
Mining Co., and the Iizuka Iron Mining Co., have several
mines in Johor, Tringanu, and other provinces.
The Ishihera Industry and Navigation Co. also
operates an iron mine in Surigao, Mindanao, while the Nippon
Mining Co. has been exploiting a wolfranite mine on Palawan
since 1937.
Report No. 180-40

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.97)
Report No. 180-40
/2/
Other sources of supply include mines in French
Indo-China and New Caledonia which are being operated with
Japanese capital.
The Nippon Mining Co. has an iron mine concession
in Dampier Land on the northwestern coast of Australia but
due to a strict ban by that government on ore exports in
July l938, no ore shipments have as yet been received in
Japan from the mine.
Nickel: The Taiyo Mining Company is engaged in nickel
mining in French New Caledonia and is reportedly making efforts
to buy a nickel mine in Celebes.
Bauxite: The Ishihara Industry and Navigation Company and
the Nissha Shokai each have a bauxite mine in Jehor.
Gold and Silver: The Trade Mining Company is exploiting
a gold and silver mine on Cebu Island, Philippines.
Mica: Japanese interests are operating one mica mine in
Celebes.
Copper: The Ishihara Industry and Navigation Company has
a copper mine concession in Sourakarta Province, Java, but it is
not being operated at the present time.
Rubber: The first Japanese rubber plantation was started
in l902 in British Malaya and since that time there has been a
steady growth. In l334, as a result of an investigation made
by the Overseas Ministry, it was determined that there were
36 Japane se rubber plantation firms and 178 Japanese-owned
private farms with a total leased area of 514,000 acres (of
which l22,o00 was actually planted) and an aggregete crude
rubber output of about 20,o00 tons. Most of the Japane se
leased plantations are in Malaya, Sumatra, Java, and Borneo and
those owned by corporations account for about 9ó per cent of
both leased acreage and output.
The leading corporations with their locations of
their holdings are as follows:
South Seas Rubber Co.
Sumatra and Malaya
Showa Rubber Co.
1"
99
19
Tropical Industrial Co.
1"
11
Nissan Agriculture and Forestry
British Borneo
Sumatra Colonization
Sumatra
Borneo Rubber Co.
Sumatra and Borneo
Sango Konsu, Ltd.
Malaya
Nissha Shokai
Sarawak
Nomura East Indies Development
Dutch Borneo and Sumatra
Malaya Rubber Co.
Malaya
Nangoku Sangyo Co.
Java
Hemp: The production of hemp by Japanese at Davao, Philip-
pines was started in 1907. At the present time, Japanese hemp
plantations in that region are on a minor scale with the excep-
tion of the Ohta Kogyo and the Furukawa Colonization Company
which have large interests. In addition to Philippine hemp,
the Nissan Agriculture and Forestry Company has transplanted
hemp to British Borneo and is now meeting with success in its
production.
Other crops cultivated by large Japanese firms in
territories owned by the United States, Great Britain, Nether-
lands, and Portugal (Timor), inolude coconuts, sugar, tea,
Report No. 180-40

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
13/
Report No. 180-40
coffee, cotton, jute, and quinine.
Forestry: The major Japanese companies which have large
forestry concessions include the South Seas Forestry Company
in Dutch Borneo, the Nissan Agriculture and Forestry Company
in British Borneo, the Philippine Timber Export Company and
the Nippon Kogyo in the Philippines. Japanese companies
annually fell large quantities of dammar, lauan and other timber.
Fishing: Most of the Jepanese-managed fisheries in the
South Secs are of minor scale but two large companies, the
Borneo Fishery Company &nd the Taisho Konshu, Ltd., have
extensive interests in Mclaya, Celebes cnd the Philippines.
Natural pearl fishing in the Árafura Sea is monopolized by
the Nippon Pearl Company while the Mitsubishi Buton Pearl
Company is engcged in pearl culture on Buton Islcnd, off the
southern coast of Celebes.
Report No. 180-40

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.94)
Division of
SUID BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
FAR EASTERN AFF
PA/I
DEC271940
NAVY DEPARTMENT
ANTELLIGENCE REPORT
Department of State
ou
Serial..Mo..189
Monograph Index Guide No.100-1
(Start new series each year, 1. e. 1-40, 2–40)
(To correspond with SUBJECT given below. See O. N. I. Index Gulds.
Make separate report for each main title.)
From
Naval Attache
at
Tokyo
Date .7x.., 19.
(Ship, fleet, unit, district, office, station, or person)
Reference
(Directive, correspondence, previous related report, etc. if applicable)
Source
Ofricial
Evaluation
Reliable
(As official, personal observation, publications, press, conversation with-identify
(As reliable, doubtful, unverified, ete.)
when practicable, etc.)
Subject
Japan
Political - Polioy
(Nation reported on)
(Main title as per index guide)
(Subtitles)
(Make separate report for each title)
Baiky.-(Here enter careful summary of report, containing substance succinctly stated; include important facts, names, places, dates, etc.)
GREATER EAST ASIA ECONOMIC POLICY
894.50/137
4 TEN YEAR PLAN
The Cabinet has made public an ambitious ten year
"Greater Rast Asia Economio" plan. Aocording to this announoed
plan, Japan's fundamental economio polioy is to
1. reorganize the national economy;
2. organize Japan-Manohukuo-China economy on a firm basis;
3. organize an East Asia sphere of common prosperity.
PS/JHS
Japan proposes to regulate industry, labor, finance
trade and communications In the three countries concerned.
H H Smith-Hutton,
Lieut-Comdr., U.S.Navy,
Naval Attaché
MAR 24 1941
FIL.RID
Diaujbatien By Orjripnator DNI (7); C1nCAF(1): Com 16(1): H1gh Comp!r of P.I.(1)t
show routing not provided for on this form, use blank boxes.
Op-16
Op.-16-1
F-1,F-2,F-3,F-4,F-5,F-6,F-7,F-8,B-3,B-4,B-8
A-B-C-D-E-F-X-Z
Archives
Badget
Board
Gen'l
Sec. Nav.
Invnts.
Of.
Collage
War
M./D.
HL O.
Nav.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.&R.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&S.
Aero.
U.S.M.C.
C. in C.
U.S.
Bat. Fer.
Com.
Sea. Fer.
Com
C. in C.
A.F.
Com.
Atren.
Coum.
F.A.T.U.
Attech& at
Op.-10/11
Op.-12
Op.-13
Op-14
Op.-20
Op.-21
Op.-22
Op.-23
Op.-30
Op.-38
Cwll
Aare

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No: 189
100 - Political
Japan
102 - Policy
7 November 1940
GREATER EAST ASIA ECONOMIC POLICY
A TEN YEAR PLAN
The Japanese Cabinet has made public the main lines of
the plans for the economic-political construction of Japan,
Manchukuo and China into an economic bloc. The following is
the official statement in regard to these plans:
"In order to attain Japan's mission of promoting
the permanent peace of the world by establishing a new
order in East Asia, the reform of the national structure
and the organization of the sphere of living on an
extended scale must be pushed forward collectively
and conjointly. Accordingly, Japan's fundamental
economic policy must be framed with the following
three objectives for attainment by stages:
"1. - Reorganization of the national economy.
"2. - Organization of the Japan-Manchoukuo-Chinese
economy on a firm basis.
"3. - Organization of the East Asian sphere of common
prosperity."
The fundamental policies to be follov:ed to attain the
above objectives are:
"1. - The ob jective of the establishment of the
Japan-Manchoukuo-Chinese economy is to establish within
the next ten years a state of self-sufficiency economy
among the se three countries, at the same time expediting
the creation of the East Asian sphere of common prosperity,
so that the position of East Asia in the world economy
may be strengthened.
"2. - Japan's guiding spirit in establishing the
Japan-Manchoukuo-Chinese economy is to promote the
common existence and prosperity and the general welfare
of the three countries through their close co-operation,
in consonance with the lofty principle of 'hakko ichiu'.
"3. - In order to expedite the establishment of the
Japan-Manchoukuo-Chinese economy, Japan will invigorate
the national spirit, effect reforms in all branches of
administration and increase the national resources, while
aiding the economic construction of Manchoukuo and China.
To this end, she will try to develop science and technical
skill and help forward various industries.
"4. - Japan expects Manchoukuo, which is inseparably
related to Japan, to adjust and develop its important
key industries speedily.
"5. - Japan expects China to develop its natural
resources and rehabilitate its economy with the co-opera-
tion of Japan and Manchoukuo. It is particularly desired
that China will direct special attention to the develop-
ment of the means of transport and communication, to the
provision of better facilities for the exchange of goods,
and to the exploitation of natural resources so as to
contribute to the establishment of the East Asian sphere
of common prosperity.
"6. - In order to accelerate the adjustment of
collective economic construction plans covering Japan,
Report No. 189-40

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
/2/
eport No. 189-40
Manchoukuo and China, the necessary measures will be
taken speedily.
"Japan's guiding policy in establishing the
Greater East Asian sphere of common prosperity with
the crection of a new world order in view has entered
on & new stcge through the conclusion of the tripartite
pact among Germany, Italy and herself. In order to meet
the new situation, the Covernment has fixed the outlines
of Japan-Manchoukuo-Chinese economic construction, forming
part of the fundamental economic policy, at a recent
Cabinet meeting, and future policy is to be shaped and
carried out along these lines.
"The object of this policy is to compass the
vigorous development of the Greater East Asian sphere
of common prosperity, which is to be founded on the
collective advance of Japane se, Manchoukuoan and Chinese
economy in conformity with the conception of a new
economic order. The world economy based on free trade,
which aims at the free exchenge of goods between nations
is crumbling before our eyes together with the old order.
Japen's economy must be free from the old structure de-
pendent on the old order so that it may be reorganized on
a new basis. By this reorganization, Japanese economy
must be mede higher, wider and stronger, thereby elevat-
ing the standard of living for all East Asien peoples and
enabling them to have the ir proper place. To make it higher
means to give higher productivity to the national vitality;
to make it wider means to extend the sphere of mutuel
economic dependence among Japan, Manchoukuo and China to
Greater Ecst Asia so as to establish a strong sphere of
mutual prosperity covering Greater East Asia; cnd to
make it stronger, mccns to establish the national economy
so firmly by reducing the degree of dependence on outside
Powers to the minimum th:t it can stond the strain of any
situation that may crise. In order to mcke the Jcpenese
economy higher, wider nd stronger in this wεy, the en-
tire resources of the nation must be put together and
while overcoming at home all hardships cattendant on
reforms by dint of & strong national will, all kinds of
pressure and menace from other Powers must be resisted
stoutly, so thct the new East Asicn economic order in
which Jupcn exercises the directive influence may be
completed within the next ten years. Under this new
order only can all East Asian countries including Menchou-
kuo and China achieve a brillicnt economic development.
"In view of the fact that Japen, Manchoukuo and
China are the ma in factors in the East Asian sphere of
common prosperity, they have the duty of regulting their
economic rel tions in close collaboration.From this
point of view, the Government hcs fixed the fundamental
measures to be taken in the field of industry, lcbour,
finance, trade and communicctions of the three countries.
"In the realm of industry the physical conditions of
the se countries and the stages of their economic develop-
ment must be taken into careful consideration, if they
ure to work as a true organic body. In Japan, it is
necessary to secure the rapid development of precision
industry of a high degree &s well as the me chinery industry,
besides helping forward vigorously key industries suoh
as the heavy, the chemical εnd mining industries. In
Manchoukuo, the mining and the electric industries
Report No. 189-40

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
/3/
eport No. 189-40
must be promoted. Japan will also give Manchoukuo
the necessery help in developing heavy and the chemical
industries. In China, mining and the salt manufacturing
must be pushed forward and the mass production of
industrial materials must be encouraged. There is also
room for the development of heavy and the chemical indus-
tries in that country, and these must be helped forward.
Further, it is considered necessary to encourage light
industry in the continent. Light industry in Japan -
the fabric industry and miscellaneous industry especially -
must be reduced gradually and be transferred to the
continent.
"With regard to Japanese agriculture, various
system governing land must be reformed and the methods
of agricultural management be improved so as to stabilize
and improve agricultural life and ensure an adequate
supply of the staple foodstuffs. It is also proposed
that the country should maintain the farming population
on an adequate level.
"Regarding Manchoukuoan agriculture, in view of the
fact that Manchoukuo is an important source of supply of
foodstuffs and fodder for the three countries and is also
the supplier of agricultural products of special kinds
to the world, Japan expects that country to increase
agricultural production considerably. For the agricul-
tural develcpment of Manchoukuo, Japan will encourage the
settlement of Japane se farmers there.
"As regards Chinese agriculture, while endeavouring
to ensure the production of staple foodstuffs for the
Chinese people, it is considered necessary to increase
the production of raw cotton and other special products.
"In order to secure a high position in the world
economy, the labour and technical skill of the nation are
of special importance, and from this point of view the
structure of labour and technical skill in this country
must be fundamentally revised. Similarly, if the East
Asian sphere of common prosperity is to maintain a high
position in world economy, it is important that steps
should be taken to see that the labour resources of each
country or in each region are so utilized as to contribute
to the progress of the whole.
"In Japan, the new structure will be applied to labour
and technical skill, labourers will be trained physically
and mentally, scientific education will be promoted, labour
productivity will be increased and experts and mechanics
will be trained. Japan will also give the necessary aid
to the economic construction of Manchoukuo and China.
"Manchoukuo and China will be supplied with eble
experts and technicicns necessary for their industrial
development and economic revival, but at the same time
these countries must also endeavour to train good tech-
nicians themselves.
"While admitting labourers from North China for settle-
ment in the country, Manchoukuo must also endeavour to in-
crease the supply of labour in its own country. It is
Report No. 189-40

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
Report No. 189-40
14/
particularly necessary for Manchcukuo to reform
measures for the control of labourers in the mining
industry.
"On finance, trade end communications also, the
outlines of the plans laid down have been made public."
* * * * * * *
Report No. 189-40

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
MR. HOHBECK
JAN 14 1941
DERM GTATEF REREIVED
G43
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DVISION 
Military Intelligence report no. 10a3t,
UUUNICATIONS
November 18, 1940, "Ten-Year Plan Por Janan,
China and Manchoukuo".
Naval Intelligence report 189, November 7,
1940, "Japan
1Political - Policy".
These two reports, wnich contain a brief
summary of their own, cover a statement issued
by the Japanese Cabinet Information Bureau,
in regard to a greater East Asia ten-year plan.
The official statement lists three ob-
Jectives: (1) Reorganization of tne nitional
economy; (2) organization of tne Jevan-
"Manchukuo"-China economy on a firm basis;
(3) the organization of en East Asia sphere of
common prosperity.
In order to attain these objectives six
policies are enumerated which will orfanize
and control the industry, lebor, finence end
foreign and domestic trade of the three countries
thus establishing their self-sufficiency and
strengthening their position in world economy.
Hi7
FE:Fales:MHP

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.93)
H2
Division of
FAR EASTERNARFAIRS
2655-H-363
DE9271940.
23
RESTRICTED
Record Section File No.
Department ofS
Copy No.
Classification
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
MILITARY ATTACHÉ REPORT
JAPAN
Country Reported On
Subject Ten-Year-Plan For Japan, China and Man-
I.G. No. ....4000
Brief Dessriptive Title
ahoukuo.
Source and Degree of Reliability:
Source: Statement from Cabinet Information Bureau.
Reliability: Ercellent.
Summarisation of Roport The Cabinet has approved a Ten-Year-Plan by
Wnran Japan, China and Manohoukuo, are to be welded into a
single economio unit for the purpose of mutual development
of commeree. The plan involves regulation of labor, indus-
trial distribution, finanee, communications and the foreism
trade, in the nations concerned in a manner which will be of
In Comments on Current Erenta Enter Item Headings Here
mutual advantage to all and whieh will bring about a new
order in international economy in keeping with new political
conceptions in the world.
894.50/138
There follows a translation of the outline of a
new l0 Year Plan for the future economic relations between
Japan, Manohoukuo and China, whioh was issued on November
ener y 3. 
5th in the ferm of a statement by the spokeman of the
Cabinet Information Bureau. The announcement was made
after the plan had received the sanotion of the Cabinet.
PS/JHS
Ten-Year-Plan
LO. 11652. Sc. 32)
Statement of the Spokemman of the
DEPARIMENY DF
Cabinet Information Bureau.
"The great poliey of the Empire for establish-
meat of the Greater Rast Asia common prosperity
sphere, aiming at establishment of a world new
-LIAIN IG
AA
order, has entered into a mew stage with the con-
elusion of the Italo-German-Japanese alliance. In
coping with the mew situation, the Government de-
cided the 'main prinsiples governing the construo-
tiom or Japan-Manehoukuo-China economy', which is
part or the basie ssonomic poliey, at a recent
meeting of the Cabinet and decided to uniry measures
to be taken in aseordanee with this poliey and em-
MAR 24 1941
FILA
foree them.
Plale
U
G-2 Distribution: 4,
Copy No. 1, R/S; 2, L/O; 3, Bection File
From M. A......Tokyo
Report No...10,234... Date...Not.-18,-1-940.
This line to appear on all sucoseding pages
RESTRICTED

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
"The feregoing poliey has fer its objestive
ef Japan-Mansheukuo-China eeenemy in ascerdanee
wisk a mew ssonomie crder stanepeint. The world
eesaemy based on free trade, in whisk a free imter-
shange of commodities was made possible between
Japanese Rmpire must abandon the old garb and re-
ergamize itselr. In so doing the econemy of Japan
mast be made higher, wider and stronger and be
guided se as to promete the life of the various
raees inhabiting East Asia.
""Higher' means that the living power of the
people must be given higher produetivity. By 'wider'
is meant that the sphere of economie inter-dependence
must be extended from the Japan-Manohoukuo-China bloe
to the Greater East Asia and a strong common pros-
perity sphere must be established. By 'stronger' is
meant a minimum dependence of the Empire's economy on
foreign countries and the mad ntenanee of economie
power at the bottom which would not waver even to any
slight extent in facing any situstion.
894
"In order to make the Empire's economy higher,
wider and stronger, the total power of the entire
nation of Japan must be ooneentrated, and with a
strong will the pains accompanying the domestie
reforms must be overoome in the domestio field, and
5
at the same time any pressure and menace coming from
overseas must be rejeoted.
"In this way we have to complete a new East
Asiatie economio order on the basis of Japan's guiding
power in about l0 years from now. wishin this very
order ean the economy of not only Manchoukuo and China
but also that of all other East siatio countries be
expeeted to have a glorious promotion and development."
Outline of Principles of Japan-Manehoukuo-
China Economic Construetion.
In order to attain in comerete foxm the mission
of the Japammse Empire to construst a new order in
Last Asia and establish lasting world peace, the re
fom of the domestic order and extension and organi-
sation of the sphere of life have to be propelled in
parallel. Aeserdingly, the basie ecomomic poliey of
the Empire has to be established on the combined plan
of the following three polieies new in process of
materialization:
1. Completion of the reorganization of the
people's esonomy.
2. Strengtheming of the organization of Japam-
Manchoukue-China esonomy.
3. Exteaded ergamization of the East Asia cemon
prosperity sphere.
Frem: M/A, Tokyo.
Repert Mo. 10,234
Nev. 18, 1940.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Basie Peliey
1. The goal of the esonomie construction of Japan,
Mamekoukao and Chima will be te establish a self-
supplying and self-surfieient economie system em-
brasing the three countries within the next ten years
and at the same time to promote the construotion of
an East Asiatic common prosperity sphere for the
strengtheming and security of the world economie
posision of East Asia.
2. The guiding spirit for the economic construotion
of Japan, Manehoukuo and China is to promote the
commen prosperity, co-existence and welfare of the
three countries by dint of common effort with the
three countries so-operating as one on the basis of
Hakke Ishi-u, four corners and four directors of the
universe under one roor, or universal brotherhood,
the prineiple on which the Empire of Japan was founded.
3. In order to promote the economio construction of
Japan, Manehoukuo and China, the spirit of the people
must be bolstered, the internal situation of the
country renovated, sfforts made to inorease national
strength and encouragewent and aids given for the
economie construotion of Manchoukuo and China. For
this purpose epochal measures will be taken to pro-
mote denee and engineering in general and to develop
new industries.
4. Manehoukuo, which is inseparably related to Japan,
is to regulate and develop its important basie indus-
tries with the quiekest possible dispatoh.
5. China, in oeoperation with Japan and Manohoukuo,
is to develop its resourees, restore its economy and
especially develop communioation and transportation,
assure smooth exohange of goods, develop the important
industries and natural resouroes of the Continent in
order to contribute to the establishment of the East
Asia common prosperity sphere.
6. A cemprehensive, planned system of economy should
be prepared for Japan, Manahoukuo and China as promptly
as possible in order to ascelerate the comprehensive
economie construction planning of Japan, Manchovkuo and
China.
Prineiples Divided by Category
Because Japam, Manohoukuo and China form the basie
trunk of the Kast Asia commen prosperity sphere, they
have the obligation to regulate their economic relatioms
on intimse cs-eperation. From such a standpoimt, the
Govermment hes decided the basie poliey of the imdustrial
field, labor, finaneing, trade and communieations of the
three coumtries.
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,234
Nov. 18, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
RÉSTRICTED
Iméustrial field:- In desiding the industrial
division, it is considered mecessary to take into
full eonsideratien the gesgraphieal posisiom of
Japan, Manekenkuo and China and the stages of their
ssomemie develepment so that it may be decided or-
sanically and synthetically. In Japan it is mesessary
to soek a pheñemenal promotien of a high-degree pre-
sision industry ané maehimery industry in the future
and develop the basie industries susk as the heavy
industries, chemical industries and mining industries,
ete.
In Manchoukuo, an epoch-making development of the
mining and elestrie industries is being expected to be
made. Japan intends to give the necessary aid to Mam-
shoukuo for the development of its heavy industrial and
chemieal industrial developments. In China, the mining
and salt produsing industries are being expected to be
fully developed so that industrial materials may be
prodused in large volume. It is considered also certain
that in the future the heavy industries and chemieal
industries will attain developmens in China also.
Much necessity is being recognized for extending
aid to the development of the light industries on the
Continent. In the future, Japan also should gradually
adjust the light industries, especially the fibre
industry and miscellaneous industries, and shift them
to the Continent. As regards the agrioulture of Japan,
various systems governing the land should be improved
and management should be renovated so that the seeurity
of the farming families may be promoted and the staple
food of Japan be guaranteed. At the same time, efforts
should be made to stabilize the farming population. As
for the marine products industry, greater development
should be made, and also efforts should be made to
rationally utilize and preserve forest resources.
Concerning the agriculture of Manehoukuo, because
of the fact that Manohoukuo is the basio area for the
supply of foodstuffs and fodder to Japan, Mamchoukuo
and China and that Manchoukuo serves as a supply souree
for the world in regard to special agrioultural produets,
a thorough production inerease of agricultural produse
is being antieipated. In seeking such agricultural
development, agrioultural development emigrants will be
reeruited to exigrate to Manshoukuo. As fer the agri-
culture or China, efforts should be made for filling
fully the country's demand of the staple food, and it
is considered mesessary to inerease the production of
raw cotton amd China's apecial agricultural produce.
Labor: Yor attaiming dominanse in world econemy, the
positien or the laber and technique of the people
phencmenally assumes a greater impertance. "Fer this
purpese, it is nesessary to bring about an epesh-making
revision in the labor amd teehmigue strueture of the
Frem: M/A, Tekye.
Repart Mo. 10,234
Nov. 18, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Empire. Fer maintaining the deminamee of the East
Amiatis co-presperity sphere in werld esememy, is
is also mesessary to give serious sensideration to
a general elevatien of the laber strength ef respes-
sive sountries and regions within the sphere. In
shis sommeetien, the Empire of Japan will remew its
strusture or laber and teohnique, and will strive fer
the training of mental and physical conditions of
laberers, thorough dissemination of seientifie eduse-
tion, attainment or a higher degree laber produstivity
and training of expert technisians and engineers so
that the aim of the necessary aid and assistanee may be
obtained for the construction of eeomomy in China and
Manehoukuo.
That means the supply of good experts to Manchoukuo
and China necessary for the industrial development and
esonomie reconstruction. It is alse necessary for those
two sountries to draft sohemes for training those ex-
perts in view of the importanoe of technique. In this
conneetion, Manchoukuo will strive for the planned entry
into and residence in Manohoukuo of laborers from North
China. Also, a plan will be established for supplying
labor from the domestic sources. It is considered
speeially necessary that the renovation and stabiliza-
tlon of the labor control in the mining and manufactur-
ing industrial production should be attained.
Finaneing:- for accelerating the onstruction of
national-defense economy, the funotions or financing
should be direoted toward the national aim. That means
the stabilization of the quaiity and quantity of
materials necessary for the State. For making the
realization of the industrial plan applioable to Japan,
Manohoukuo and China possible, the industrial runds
shsuld be distributed on a planned basis and a monetary
system should be possessed for executing the distribu-
tion.
Also, parallel with the progress of technique and
the establishment of the industrial demarkation in the
future, it is necessary that a monetary strueture should
be completed for enabling the storing or major mmterials
in order to cope with the change in industrial faeilities.
The industrial Funds for Japan, China and Manchoukmo
should, of course, be saved and accumulated by the three
countries conserned. For this purpose, the measures
should be taken for inoreasing the acoumulation and
utilizing the savings.
The Japamese Empire will offer its assistance for
the indastrial funds needed for the development or key
industries in China and Kanohoukuo.
Alse parallel with the inereasing growth of economie
relations ameng Japan, China and Manehoukue, the inter-
depemdent relations of the three countries im setsling
intermational aceounts should be established firmly.
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,234
Nov. 18, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Trade:- Coneerming trade in the midst of the mew
werld ecomemie oréer, the sommersial trade primsiple
as adepted in the past sheuld be sensiderably revised.
Im its place sheuld come the trade based on the pro-
duetivity prinsiple. It means that sash area and eack
soumtry in the esonomis sphere should offer to the
others sueh artieles as they require in order to acquire
its necessary artieles fer its planmed preductien and
that met emly Japan, Manshoukuo and China but also all
other areas in the same sphere will regulate their trade
on the relations of omeness. Under this system, is
besemes nesessary to have a special payment settlement
agreement among Japam, China, Manohoukuo and those wish-
in the eommem prosperity sphere with the ob jeet of aid-
ing the interohange of artieles w thin the sphere.
Communications:- Parallel with oloser ciroulation
of goeds within Japan, Manehoukuo and China and common
prosperity sphere and also for the purpose af ensuring
the safety of the common prosperity sphere, it is
mecessary to adjust and manage the communications net-
work among the three countries on a synthetie plan. For
this purpese, the connection of land and sea transporta-
tion facilities mong the three countries should be
promoted, and efforts should be made toward phenemenal
Imerease in the number of ships, the control and liaisom
of all routes and the completion and expansion of eleetrie
communication facilities.
2. Comment.
. Although mecessarily broad in its statements, and
at this stage rather indefinite as to the details of
the methods by which it is proposed to give life to
this plan, it is still by far the most derinite state-
ment yet to appear covering mueh of the talk whieh has
been going on recently coneerning the projeot of welding
Japan, China and Manchoukuo into a close knit economie
unit. By comparison d th past disoussion of this sub-
jeot, both the general prinoiples of the above statement,
as well as its division of the projeet into five portions,
labor, industrial distribution, finance, foreign trade,
and communications, gives a olarity to the cbjective
whieh has been noticeably missing in past disoussions of
this seheme.
b. while nothing has been said thus far regarding the
meehamism of this new plan, it appears to rit closely
with a Five-Year-Plan now in effeet in Manohoukuo, and
with the Chine Develepment Companies whieh are operating
in various portions of oseupied China. These, together
wish the "New Structure" organization now in course of
construstien in Japan, will no doubt be the chanmels
through whieh the new Ten-Year-Plan will funetion.
will depend upon the extent to which Japan oan isolate
the Chiang Kal-shek government of Chima, and the
From: M/ A, Tokyo.
Report Mo. 10,234
Mov. 18, 1940.
RESTRICTED
Page 6

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
Serrellary question of what sussess it may have in
in their turm, and im the ligat of present interma-
tional events, may well be iarluensed by the outeone
of the struggle in Europe. Thus, it would appear
that the wltimate suscess or failure of this plam, or
even ths degree of its sussess or failure, should werld
conditions be sueh as to permit something less than
complete suecess or more than complete failure, may
well be determined by influences outside of the mations
involved in this new projeet. Speeulatiens ef this
sert seon lead to a determination of the questions of
who may win the European War, or the World War mhould
it turn into that, which are rather far afield from
the immsdiate one of the possibilities of the new Ten-
Year-Plan.
However, one thing is certain. Should the future
be sush as to permit the success of this plan, the
result will be a very strong economic block in the
Orient, which will be able to exert a strong influenee
on worid economy, and whieh will render those parti-
oipating therein largely independent of souroes upon
whioh they now depend, at least as far as many raw
materials, and processed articles are concerned.
Harry I. T. Creswoll,
Lieut. Jolonel, Acting General 3taff,
Military Attache.
Distribution:
0-2
/A
rile
工
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,234
Nov. 18, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Internal economic and political
situation.
Report on conversation with Reverend George S.
Noss, former missionary of the Reformed Church
in Japan.
1w
894.50/1
39
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memo
(Despatch, telegram, instruotion, letter, eta.)
From
St-te Department
Dated
Jan.14.1941
Far.Eastern_Affairs
To
(Schuler)
File No.
894.00/1007
B. B. GOVERNKNT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1540
139

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Laternal and Foreiga poliey.
and economie situstion.
Information relative-so possible reorgami-
sation of Japanese Cabimet due to dis-
894.50/140
satisfaction with -.
10
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
T.390.8m
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
Dated
Mar. 11. 1941
From
Japan (Grev)
To
File No.
894.00/1009
U. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1540
894.50
Kro

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
MR. HORNBECK
APR14J941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTEKN AFEAIRS
April 9, 1941
Tokyo's despatch no. 5431, March 11,
1941.
Embassy
The aspa reports: There is scant
evidence of the successful application of the
ambitious plans for renovating the Japanese
economic structure through planned national
economy; wide divergence of opinion in Govern-
ment and private circles developed when the
general principles for the new economic struc-
ture were being formulated; industrialists took
exception to drastic restraints upon private
management originally contemplated and a con-
cession was made regarding the mandatory pro-
visions for the creation of a supreme central
organization to control all industries.
The Government plan provides "economic
bodies" composed of industralists engaged in
similar activities, operating through directors
appointed by the industrialists and approved
by the Government. The diree s will ex-
ercise guiding and supervisory functions over
individual enterprises. rrivate management
is the general rule with State management re-
stricted to cases of special nece sity. Of-
ficial fixing of prices and payment of divi-
dands are provided and "the Government shall
guide and supervise economic bodies"
and "shall cooperate with the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association to promote progress
in organizing economic
bodies".

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
bodies".
A recent article attempting to set
forth the methods by which the plan is ex-
pected to operate states that if, for example,
i0 million tons of iron is required by the
State during the year, the Government will
place an order with the Directors of the
hiron manufacturing group" who if they
accept the order will be responsible to the
State for its completion. The Directors will
allot the order to members of the Group who
are responsible to the Directors. The
allocation of orders is to be predicated upon
the coordinated, joint management of member
producers.
The Embassy finds puzzling the lack of
achievement during the three months since
the Government announced the"Principles of
the New Economic Structuré' but sees no prospect
for a rapid and thorough tranformation of the
economic system. The Embassy also observes
that it is unlikely that the'New Economic
Structure can be discarded because of the
great publicity which it has received and
therefore a Government gesture towards im-
plementing the program is expected.
Enclosure 1. "Complete Text of
Principles of the New Economic Structure."
H7
FE:Fales:MBW

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.93)
RNBECK
APR 14 1941
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
RECEOFETHE
DEPARTMENT OF
UUKATEDMEHATES OFAAMERICA
PA/H
1941 APR 2 PM 2 47
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 11, 1941.
! CF
No. 5431
SUBJECT:
NEW ECONOMIC STRUCTURE.
C m8
7
riles
4
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
"FAIKS
APR 16 1941
DIVISION OF
APR17 194GL
IATE
DEP
Cohyn 7E
894.50/141
Grud
F
O,N1. 2 M.1,D,
COPIES SENT TO
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.00 /962
Sir:
APR 18 1941
With reference to the Embassy's despatch no. 4928,
FILED
PS/JHS
August 30, 1940, and later despatches discussing the
TME
formulation and ramifications of a new political concept
10/29/45
in Japan, known as the "New Structure", which has served
Fumimoro
OOP
the present Konoye Government as the central rallying
slogan for extensive internal reorganization, I have
the honor to outline the development and results of
efforts

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
efforts to apply "new structure" principles to the re-
organization of Japanese economy.
The entire "new structure" movement, including its
economic aspects, derives its impetus from conditions of
increasing stringency induced by prolonged hostilities in
China. In attempting to meet this situation with his
loudly proclaimed "new structure" it can at least be sus-
pected that Prince Konoye has once more resorted to the
favorite Japanese device of formulating vague, grandiose
and frequently fanciful panaceas intended to gloss over
unpleasant realities. As might have been expected, the
ambitious plans for renovating the economic structure,
through the introduction of a system of planned national
economy, have encountered numerous obstacles and to date
there is scant evidence of their successful application.
Following a period of prolonged consideration, the
Government agreed to and announced on December 7, 1940,
a set of "Principles of the New Economic Structure", a
1/
translation of which is enclosed. While a detailed dis-
cussion of the conversations and negotiations leading up
to the issuance of these principles appears unnecessary,
it is interesting to observe that wide divergences of
opinion, both in Government and private circles, became
apparent, during October and November, 1940, while these
principles were being formulated, in regard to the form
which the new economic structure should take. A preliminary
draft plan drawn up by the Cabinet Planning Board formed
the

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
-3~
the working basis for negotiation. Exception was
taken by industrial interests, principally to the
drastic restraints upon private management of in-
dustry contemplated in the original draft plan.
According to the Japanese press, s trong pressure was
brought to bear on the Govemment by KANSAI indus-
trialists (in conferences with Mr. Kobayashi, Minister
of Commerce and Industry), the Japan Economic Federa-
tion (meetings between the president of that organiza-
tion, Baron Goh, and the Prime Minister were reported)
and the Japan Chamber of Commerce.
Various and conflicting rumors concerning the
nature of the new economic structure were circulated.
One of these, alleging that the Government planned in-
corporating into the new economic structure communistic
ideas, involving the denial of the right of private
ownership of capital, evoked strong denials from the
Prime Minister. On November 30 announcements were made
by the Army and Navy Ministers of their support of the
Government's plans for internal reform and condemning false
rumors to the contrary as schemes designed to overthrow
the Cabinet.
The chief concession made to the industrialists is
understood to have been the elimination from the original
plan of a mandatory provision calling for the creation
of a supreme central organ to control and co-ordinate all
industries. The plan as announced by the Government leaves
the question of the creation of such a supreme organ to
future decision upon the basis of future necessity.
The

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
The Government plan envisages the organization of
"economic bodies" within certain (not designated) major
industries, such "bodies" to be composed of industrialists
engaged in similar activities or dealing in s imilar com-
modities. These "economic bodies", operating through direct-
ors, appointed by the interested industrialists and approved
by the Government, will exercise certain guiding and super-
visory functions over individual enterprises. The Govern-
ment's plan emphasizes that private management is to be
allowed to function as freely as possible but it provides
for the possibility of replacing private management by
State control in special cases. The plan provides for
official price fixing and for restrictive limits on dividend
payments. The "economic bodies" are designed to function
as advisers to the Government in their special fields and
to assist in drafting and executing important economic
policies.
An excerpt is quoted below from an article by Yohiji
Minobe, who holds the combined post of section chief of the
N8F
Price Bureau of the Commerce and Industry Ministry and of
the Cabinet Planning Board. This article appeared in the
February 1941 issue of CONTEMPORARY JAPAN, and the exeerpt
quoted professes to give an example of the manner in which
the Government's plan is expected to operate:
"To

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
"To give an example of the future system, suppose
the State requires l0 million tons of iron in the
course of the ourrent year. The Government will
place an order with the directors of the iron manu-
facturing group for the production of such an
amount on condition of supplying them with the
necessary raw materials and labour, after seeking
their views. In case they accept the order, the
directors will be responsible to the State for
the production of the amount of iron specified
and will allot production to the member producers
of their group. The production of any specific
amount of goods, however, will be predicated upon
the coordinated efficiency of the limited production
facilities, raw materials, labour, motive power and
fuel available. Consequently, the quotas of produc-
tion to be allotted to member producers are also to
be predicated upon the coordinated, joint management
of enterprises on the part of the member producers,
who are responsible to their directors for the
production of their allotted quotas. The directors
in turn are responsible to the State for the produc-
tion of their accepted amount of iron on the basis of
designated volumes of raw materials and labour. They
are quite free as to the manner of activity to which
they will put their member producers, who on their
part are responsible only for the production of their
accepted quotas and take their own initiative in
deciding upon the method or manner of production.
Inasmuch, however, as there exist inseparable con-
nections between production and the quality and price
of products, acceptance of allotted quotas will in-
variably be accompanied by consideration of quality
and the price of products."
The professed object of this economic program is the
fullest and most efficient utilization of all resouroes of
the State. The co-ordinating activities of the "economic
bodies", are expected to insure that total national re-
sources will be effectively exploited, and retention of the
principle of private management (though subject to the prin-
ciples of "priority of public interest and service to the
State") is expected to insure maximum industrial efficiency.
The

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
The degree to which the plan will, in operation, result in
a separation of management and capital, is receiving the
anxious attention of industrial circles.
It should be noted that in its present form, the
"Principles of the New Economic Structure" are not law
and have no binding legal force. They could be given legal
validity by an Imperial Ordinance issued under the authoriza-
tion contained in the "National General Mobilization law".*
Such an ordinance has not yet been issued, however, and any
action taken by industry so far to comply with the Govern-
ment's program can only be described as voluntary.
Reports have appeared that the iron and steel industry,
also the coal and cement industries, are taking steps to
form "economic bodies" as contemplated in the organization
of the new economic structure. Definite information,
however, concerning concrete developments in this direction
are lacking.
The lack of achievement, or even indications that
serious efforts were being made to realize the objectives
of the "New Economic Struoture" during the three months
that have elapsed since the Government announced its
"Principles" is somewhat puzzling. Such apparent inactivity
cannot in any case be interpreted as an optimistic sign
and it remains to be seen whether the Government, now
freed from its preoccupations with Diet matters, will
proceed with its economic plans. All indications point
to
* Embassy's despatch no. 2871, April 11, 1938.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
to the conclusion that no rapid and thorough trans-
formation of the economic system of Japan, along the
lines of the Government's "Principles", is in prospect.
On the other hand, in view of the great publicity which
accompanied the drafting of economic policies, it is un-
likely that the "Economic New Structure" can be discarded
outright, and therefore at least some gesture by the Govern-
ment toward implementing its program may be anticipated.
In this connection, it should be observed that the
"Law for the Revision of the National General Mobilization
Law", conferring materially increased wartime economic
powers on the Government, has been enacted by the present
session of the Diet and officially promulgated. A separate
treatment of this important measure will be reserved for a
later despatch.
Respectfully yours,
Nord 6. Frun
800
Joseph C. Grew.
CAC:C
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Original and 5 copies to Department.
JN

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 5431 dated March 11, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Translation of the "Complete Text of Principles of the
New Economic Struoture" as published in the Asahi Shimbun
of December 8, 1940.
I. Basic Policy
In order to establish a self-sufficient prosperity
sphere with Japan, Manchukuo and China as one unit and
embracing Greater East Asia, to secure an autonomous de-
fense economy based upon the resources of that sphere,
and to realize through the cooperation of the Government
and the people a co-ordinated planned economy centered
around the key industries as the means of coping with the
stringency of the current situation, of contributing to
the consunmation of the national defense structure by per-
fecting armaments and of securing the stabilization of
the national livelihood and the permanent prosperity of
the national economy, it is necessary
(1) to establish an industrial structure whereby
enterprises representing an organic entity of capital,
management and labor shall constitute an element in the
organization of the national economy under a co-ordinated
state plan, and shall be entrusted to autonomous control
under the initiative and responsibility of industrialists
who, through the exercise of maximum efficiency, will in-
orease industrial productive power; and
(2) in accordance with the principles of priority of
public interest and of service to the State, and in order
to evoke the full national strength for the attainment of
the national objective of powerful national defense, to
direot the economy of the people and to make it into an
organio unit through the organization of economio bodies.
In

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
In regard to the execution of these principles, it is
necessary, in view of the present situation, to follow
the proper order of execution by according priority to
urgent matters and to avoid lowering industrial productivity,
disrupting distribution and causing uneasiness among the
people. Further, in order to conform to the arrangements
for this structure, reorganization of the affected admin-
istrative organs and of their functions shall be effected.
II. Industrial Structure
With a view to maintaining and strengthening productiv-
ity, the industrial structure shall be established with
the individual enterprises retaining initiative and re-
sponsibility in management, subject to the objectives of
the State.
1. Private management of enterprises shall be the
general rule, and management by the State or by national
policy companies shall be limited to cases of special
necessity.
2. There shall be applied to enterprises, according
to their nature and in conformity with fixed standards,
necessary restrictions regarding establishment, etc.
3. According to their nature and in conformity with
fixed standards, enterprises may be divided or merged from
the standpoints of produotion plans or technique.
4. Medium and small-scale enterprises shall be main-
tained and fostered. When such maintenance proves diffi-
cult, however, adjustments and mergers may be carried out
independently and the smooth transformation will be as-
sisted.
5. In

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
5.. In order to contribute to the strengthening of
national production and to realize its permanent develop-
ment, enterprises shall be subject to appropriate guidance
and control.
(a). In fixing official prices for principal
commodities allowance shall be made for a fair
profit, using average production costs as a basis.
(b). The realization of speculative and monopolistic
profits, detrimental to the maintenance of the
national economic order shall be prevented but
fair industrial profits will be allowed. An
increase in profits will be allowed to persons who
have specially contributed to increasing national
production.
(c). Appropriate restrictions shall be applied to
the distribution of industrial profits but amounts
in excess of the restriction limit shall be held in
reserve in Government bonds or in some other form.
A means of disposing thereof shall be determined
under fixed conditions after the lapse of a fixed
period of time.
(a). Special means will be devised to reward persons
who have contributed to the strengthening of
national production through inventions or dis-
coveries.
(e). The technical arts shall be opened to the public
and, in order to accelerate progress in those
arts, rewards will be given to persons who excel
therein.
(r).

=== Page 216 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-
(f). In order to facilitate the renovation of
industrial facilities and other measures to reinforce
the foundations of industry, amortization shall be
strengthened.
(g). Assistance shall be rendered to the expansion
and development of enterprises in the order of and with
emphasis upon their contribution to national production
strength.
6. Separate consideration will be given to the indus-
trial structure for management of agricultural and fishery
enterprises.
III. Economic Bodies.
(1) Organization of economic bodies.
(a) The units for major divisions of industry
shall be enterprises and associations. Economio
bodies shall be organized on a functional or a
commodity basis to comprise industrialists engaged
in similar industries or dealing in similar com-
modities. The fundamental conditions therefor are
as follows:
(1) Economic bodies shall be special
juridical persons.
(2) Economic bodies shall operate
under the guidance of directors recommended
by the industrialists and approved by the
Government.
(b) Other industries shall be organized
into economic bodies when necessary in accordance
with the preceding clause and on a funotional or
regional basis.
(o) Enterprises outside of Japan Proper shall
be organized into economic bodies in the various
regions in accordance with the provisions of
the

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
the preceding clause. Appropriate measures
shall be devised, however, for national regu-
lation if there is special need for control
being unified with that in Japan Proper.
(a) In connection with the organization
of economic bodies, the following points must
be specially heeded:
(1) The establishment of economic
bodies shall be in the order of the most
important to the le ss necessary.
(2) Separate consideration shall be
given to enterprises having special im-
portance from the military standpoint.
(3) A supreme economic organization
charged with supervision of all industry
shall be established when the necessity
for it is recognized.
2. Functions of economic bodies.
(a) Functions of major industrial economic
bodies are as follows:
(1) As co-operative organs of the
Government, they shall co-operate wi th the
Government in framing important policies
and shall assume responsibility for draft-
ing and executing plans for their enforce-
ment. Moreover, in case of necessity, they
shall place their views before the Govern-
ment.
(2) In the enforcement of plms as set
forth in the preceding clause, they shall
undertake to guide subsidiary economic
bodies and enterprises under their jurisdic-
tion.
(3) As necessary, they shall investi-
gate the actual results of management in
production, distribution, etc. Also they
shall supervise subsidiary economic bodies
in the task of inspecting the quality of
goods produced.
(4) To contribute to the development
of industry, mutual aid from the joint ac-
count or by some other means shall be ex-
tended to saorificed industries.
(b)

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
(b) Functions of other bodies correspond
in general to the foregoing.
3. Government supervision and relation to the Imperial
Rule Assistance Association.
(a) The Government shall guide and super-
vise economic bodies. Arrangements for economic
bodies as well as their management shall be
made as autonomous as possible with guid ance
and supervision limited to general principles.
(b) The Government shall co-operate with
the Imperial Rule Assistance Association to
promote progress in organizing economic bodies.
4. Separate consideration shall be given to
the organization of economic bodies for agricultu-
ral, forestry and fishery industries.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
TMENT OF STATE
IN OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 7, 1941.
Rem
Payn
Reference Tokyo's no. 5437
of March 12, 1941, transmitting
memorandum of conversation concern-
ing economic conditions in Japan
between the Australian Minister to
Tokyo, Sir John Latham, and
Mr. Grew.
I think you will wish to
read in full the account of .r.
Grew's conversation with the
Australian Minister.
894.50/142
228
FE:Sonuler:OJL

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, March 12, 1941.
(p37
No. 5437.
SUBJECT:
TRANSMITTING MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
CONCERNING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN JAPAN:
THE AUSTRALIAN MINISTER, SIR JOHN LATHAM,
AND THE AMERICAN AMBASSÁDOR, MR. GREY
VISA DIVISION
e
APR 24 19
acle
DIVISION 01
4
pertpoant of
APR 1 5 1941
894.50
DEPARTMENT
0
RECEVE
OEPARTMER
2
894.50/142
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER IN
TERNATIONAL CONM AFFAIKS
SI Slate
CONFIDENTIAI
APR 19 1941
DEP STATE
Re
MR. ACHESON
MR. HORNBLCH
ATIONS
ark 14 1941
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
A
With reference to that portion of the Embassy
FILED
757g92290
strictly confidential telegram, no. 340, March 118
2
390
dealing with the deterioration of economic condit nsIn
PS/DP
Japan, I have the honor to enclose, as of possible interest
in this connection, a memorandum of conversation which I
had with the Australian Minister, Sir John Latham, on
March 6,

=== Page 221 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Maroh 6, 194l, during the course of which he gave
certain concrete examples, based on his contacts with
Japanese businessmen, of the present deplorable con-
dition of economic life in this country. The Minister's
remarks in general concerning Japanese-Australian relations
may likewise be of interest to the Department.
Respectfully yours,
800.
CEB:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ As stated above.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Legation, Canberra.
Original and 4 copies to Department.
Received

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 5437 dated March 12, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo..
Conversation
March 6, 1941.
The American Ambassador, Mr. Grew,
with the Australian Minister, Sir John G.
Latham.
Sir John Latham called today, at his request, and
we talked for an hour on various subjects. He said that
since coming to Japan he had been in touch with many
Japanese business men, especially the wool merchants
who had recently given a dinner for him of forty or
fifty merchants from various parts of the country. In
talking with these men individually and analyzing the
results Sir John said that he was greatly impressed by
the present deplorable condition of the economic life
of the country. In this connection he geve me a few
concrete illustrations:
1. A Japanese who had recently returned
home from abroad had been unable to find a house
anywhere and Sir John asked him why he did not
build a modest residence, especially as he was
convinced that plenty of lumber existed in Japan.
The Japanese replied that this was true but that
it would nevertheless be utterly impossible for
him to build a house because, first, he could not
get transportation for the lumber, second, he
could not get nails for the construction and
third, he could not get labor for the building..
2. A Japanese had recently imported a large
machine for turning out smaller tool-making machines
but the big machine was lying idle. When Sir John
inquired why the owner did not put it to work the
latter replied that to be set up the machine required
a base of some twenty tons of cement but that after
months of effort the owner had been able to assemble
only eight tons of cement up to the present.
3. A Japanese company had received a large
order for many gross of p encils and had tried
to assemble the various supplies required for
their manufacture, namely the wood, the graphite,
the rubber, and the brass bands for holding the
rubber in place. Each category of these supplies
had to be obtained by filing separate applications
and owing to the delays encountered it had been
utterly impossible to assemble the material for
manufacturing the pencils.
4.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4. The present demand for glass is im-
possible to fill for the reason that some of
the prime necessities for manufacture are
lacking, especially a product which comes from
Eritrea, so that manufacture has been reduced
to a minimum. Sir John said that the same lack
of essential commodities was restricting produc-
tion all along the line.
Sir John said that Mr. Ohashi, the Vice Foreign
Minister, had recently summoned him and in a threatening
manner had said that Japan required a large quantity of
certain grades of Australian wool and that unless Australia
should meet these requirements the Japanese Government
for its part would restrict Japanese exports to Australia.
Sir John said that he had laughed and had pointed out to
Mr. Ohashi that any such restriction by Japan would be
impossible in view of the primary importance of Japan's
export trade and the urgent need of acquiring foreign ex-
change. He said that Australia is now at war and that a
great amount of wool is needed not only to supply the
steadily increasing Australian army but to supply British
needs as well, but that after these needs had been met
Australia would do its best in its own interest to maintain
its wool market in Japan, although Japan could not necessarily
count on receiving the particular grades of wool which it
desired. Sir John said that at the end of the conversation
Mr. Ohashi's tone had completely changed and that he was
appealing to him for cooperation, instead of demanding.
Sir John said that whenever a Japanese embarked on
the immigration theme and criticized Australia for shutting
the door to Japanese immigration he merely pointed out that
Japan

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Japan had likewise closed the door to Chinese and Korean
laborers simply because the latter would work for less
pay and could exist on a lower standard of living than
the Japanese workman. Sir John said that precisely the
same considerations had brought about the immigration
restrictions in Australia and in the United States and
he said that if his hearers would apply a little logic they
would realize the reasonableness of the Australian and
American position. He said that his contacts seldom had
any reply to this argument.
The conversation then turned to the Gallup and other
polls which Sir John considered to be exceedingly dangerous
because they allegedly recorded what was in fact the un-
informed and uneducated views or snap judgments of the
masses and that they exerted an influence out of all pro-
portion to their real value. He said that the same considera-
tions applied to the petitions signed by thousands of names
which were often circulated and that when he had been in
the Australian Parliament he had succeeded in discrediting
these petitions by pointing out the manner in whioh they
were drawn up, especially by certain interests which cir-
culated blank telegraph forms for telegrams to be sent free
of charge to the legislators. He said that at one time the
school children used to stage competitions to see who could
sign the greatest number of such petitions and that in one
school a small girl had won with a record of thirty such
signatures, it being her habit to sign a different name to
each petition. I took issue with Sir John on the value of
the Gallup and other polls and expressed the opinion from
oareful

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
careful personal observation that the American public
is today extraordinarily well informed, especially by
radio and the press, with regard to what is going on in
the world and that their votes in these polls are believed
to rest on carefully formed judgments based on wide informa-
tion and incisive thought and that this applied to all
classes of society.
J.C.G.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
COMMUN
AcR
RECEIVED
APR 10 1941
Federal Burean of Iuneatigationt
OF
Anited States Drpartment of Jhaie
S
Washington, D.U.
STATE
sea
Fe
894.50/143
APR 5-1941
Anri1 4101
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER UN
MR. BERLE
ENATIONAL FCONOMI AISAT AND 
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
APR10 194
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MEIGN ACTIVITY
Honorable Adolf A. Ber, Jr.
til
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of Staté
APR 5 1941
FAR EASTENN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
1.7. 4.21
11541
My dear Mr. Berle:
Department of State
As of possible interest to you, I am inviting your
attention to notes taken from the new edition of the Nippon
Yusen Kaisha (NYK) Year Book, which may not have been brought
to your attention heretofore:
"A scarcity of workers was felt in many industries
PS/JHS
even before the China incident. The subsequent expansion of
industrial activity in manufacturing and mining ** intensified
the scarcity both in industry and agriculture, the shortage
being greatest in skilled workers. In April, 1939, the
894.50
employment of skilled workers was put under control to prevent
the movement of these workers from factory to factory ***.
The production and sale of luxuries and non-essential articles
has been prohibited as from July, 1940, for production and
from October, for sales. A ration card systen for sugar and
matches was enforced from June 1, 1940 in Kyoto, Kobe, Nagoya
and Yokohama and from June 5, 1940 in Tokyo and Osaka. The
Government will also adopt measures to safeguard the supply
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
of daily necessities.
APR 17 1941
"The use of substitute fuels, such as wood,
harcoal and compressed gases has been encouraged. (Here a
ote from another publication: Light automobiles now running
n charcoal gas will be replaced by those operated on
ON OF
DECLASSIFIED
Justice Departmcut Guideliues, d-a7-1984
ByRTG
NARS. Date 5-16-1984

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Page 2
acetylene gas. The Osaka Motor Manufacturing Company have
manufactured small autos in which charcoal gas generators
were installed, but in view of the increasing difficulty of
getting adequate sunplies of charcoal, and because of the
low efficiency of such cars, the company has decided to
replace them with autos which can be run on acetylene gas.
The Osaka Manufacturing Company and Matsuda Automobile
Manufacturing Company, the two largest companies engaged in
the production of light cars are to engage in the manufacture
of acetylene cas generators. The carbide needed for these cars
is to be distributed by the Japan Carbide Distribution Company).
"Regarding the shortage of fuel, the Omuda Synthetic
plant of Mitsui Mining is renorted to begin eneral operation
by the Fischer process. The Kawasaki plant of the Japan Oleo-
Chemical Industry Ltd. is engaged in the licuefaction by
hydrogenation of tar."
Sincerely yours,
. 2e.toover
CC - Captain Alan Goodrich Kirk
Director, Office of Haval Intellirence
Navy Denartment
Washington, D. C.
Brigadier General Sherman Miles
Assistant Chirf of Staff
G-2, War Denartment
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
HOMNBECK
Apr11 18, 1941
M.I.D. report no. 10,348. March 5, 1941,
Tokyo.
A revision of the National Mobilization
aw hes been effected which, according to the
report, "will give the Government complete
control over all national economic and finan-
oial matters in all their many ramifications
as well as over many of the activities of the
individual". The report lists each article
revised and in commenting on the various
individual revisions the report states, e.g.,
"gives the Government power over investments
and equipment of businesses concerned with
mobilization enterprises", "provides for com-
plete Government control over almost any form
of activity", "has power over the proprietors
of all forms of business", "extends the Gov-
ernment authority more widely in the matter
of price regulation", "owners of like enter-
prises may be required to combine their
operations", "the new clause is a punitive
one which sets forth the classes of violators
According to the report the new law
should be "very nearly the maximum effort
toward directing the activities of the country
along lines designed to cope with the present
emergency".
Translation of the law enclosed.
FE:Fales:FRE

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosixs
RESTRICTED
Classißbation
Copy No.
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
FAR EASTRN EAIHS
 WAR DEPARTMENT GENeRAL STAFF
MILITARY ATTACHÉ REPORT .. JAPAN
Department of State
Subject
Revision of National Mobilization Law. 1.G. No. 6620
Country Reported On
Brief Deseriptive Title
Source and Degree of Reliabjlity
Source: Press.
Reliability:
Summarization of Report
A revision of the National Mobilization Law
by whioh Governmental control over all economic and finan-
When Required
cial activities of the country is very much strengthened.
The revision was carried out in response to the demand for
changes in portions of the former law vhion were not working
as satisfactorily as was desired. Translation of new law
attaohed.
In Commenta on Current Evente Enter Item Neadings Here
1. Among the more important pieces of legislation accom-
pliahed by the Diet in the course of its current session,
is the revision of the National Mobilization Law whioh was
brought into existence under the first Konoe Cabinet in
the @arly part of 1938. (Report No. 9257)
QECLSSED
2. Being enacted as it was, at a time whan it had become
apparent that the then so called China Inoident had grown
beyond inoident proportions, tae old law provoked a storm
of disoussion in the Diet and much oriticiam of what were
oonsidered its many very drastio features. As time went
EQ. 11652. Sec. 3E md SD)
on however, it became olear that there were loopholes in
the bill whioh provided opportunity for many evasions of
its complete and thorough application, and there arose a
rather wide demand for its revision.
3. The opportunity for carrying out such revision pre-
sented itselr in the current session of the Diet which
operated under many forms of inoreasing governmental
control, to say nothing of the shadow of the Imperial
Rule ssistance Association whioh was hanging over its
head, with the result that the revisions of the law,
whioh go beyond the original law in providing for more
drastic governmental regulation, were hustled through
the Diet with soaroely a oritioal comment other than a
few discussions as to the severity of certain of the
punitive olauses.
4. That the revision was oarried out with thoroughness is
indicated by the faot that 19 Artioles have been changed,
and five completely new clauses have been added.
MAY 171
Stale
FILED
G-2 Distribution: 4,
5,
Copy No. 1, R/B; 2, L/C: 3, Section File
h69
From M. A.
Report No. -10,343
Date-Maroh-5,-1941:
S
RESTRICTED

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
 In the interests of facility in making comparisons
betweem the old law and the law in iss revised form, a
translatiem of whioh is attached here, the various ehanges
are indisated below.
Artiele S. The term "looal public bodies" is ohanged to
read "local publie bodies or those appointed by the Govern-
mont".
Comment. The change is reported as having been designed to
place more power in the hands of designated officials with
a view to obtaining more prompt cooperation than has been
found possible when the regulation or the enterprises con-
cerned was carried out by local organizations.
Artigle 6. The words "assumption of office or retirement"
are added after the word "dismissal", and the words "wages
and other labor terms" are replaced by the words "wages,
saleries, and other working conditions".
Comment. The changes are designed to give greater control
over labor and the conditions under whieh it works.
Artiole 8. The words "general mobilization materials" are
changed to read "goods".
Comment. Under the former law there was considerable fric-
tion over what constituted "mobilization materials". The
substitution of the word "goods" removes any opportunity
for further disoussion by placing all materials of any
nature under the provisions of the law.
Artiele l0. The words "use or expropriate" are replaced by
the words "use or expropriate, or cause a person who admin-
isters general mobilization business to use or expropriate".
Comment. The extension of the using or expropriating powers
to persons engaged in mobilization business is in keeping
with the similar ohange in Artiole 5 and tends greatly to
speed up decisions as to use of goods and materials of all
kinds.
Artiele ll. The words "use of capital" are changed to read
"operation of their funds, or undertaking or guaranteeing
monetary obligations".
Cemment. This change merely extends a step further the con-
trol whieh the Government already exeroises over all financial
operations.
Artiele 13. Clsuse 3. The words "use or expropriate land
houses, and other working facilities necessary for general
mobilization enterprises" are changed to read "manage, use
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,343
Mareh 5, 1941.
RESTRICTED
Page 2

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
er exprepriate land, houses, or other establiskments which
are mesessary fer general mobilisation busimess, or may
eaase any persen whe administers general mobilisatien busi-
mess to use or expropriate them".
Cemmemt. This change represents un extension of powers to
gemeral mobilization ofricials along the same lines as in
Artieles 5 and 10.
Artiele l4. The following words are added "and may cause a
persem who administers a general mobilization business to
operate patent inventions or registered new utility models
or to use the mining rights or rights related to the use of
water.
Comment. An extension of power similar to those already
mentioned.
Artiele 15. The words "by the Government" are added imme-
diately preceding the words "under the provisions of the
preesding two Articles", and there is also added the phrase
*or when things expropriated by a person who conduets a
goneral mobilization business under the provisions of
Artiole 13, Clause 3".
Commont. There is no particular signifioance to the above
ohanges. They simply change the Article in accordance with
other changes previously made. Due to variations in trans-
lation the added phrase does not rit in exactly, but its
sense is the same in any case.
Artiele 16. The 2nd and 3rd Clauses are both new.
Comment. Both the added clauses are very important. The
2nd Clause gives to the Government power over investments
and equipment of business ooncerned with mobilization enter-
prises, while the 3rd Clause provides for complete governmental
control over almost any form of aotivity.
Artiele 17. The words "general mobilization enterprises" are
struck out.
Comment. Under the former law the Covernment had power to
regulate business combinations or agreements between proprie-
ters of mobilization enterprises, whereas under the ohange it
has power over the proprietors of all forms of business.
Artiele 18. This Artiole has been almost completely rewritten.
In general it provides that owners of like enterprises may be
required to combine their operations and that the combination
shall be incorporated as a juridical person. The new 2nd and
3rd Clauses go into the details of such combinations.
Comment. This Artiole will be an important one in practice,
and is one which is looked forward to as the means of obtain-
ing greater efriciency in industry through the combination to
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Roport No. 10,343
March 3, 1941
RESTRICTED

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
do away with everhead, give a mere esenomie use of laber,
permit more advantageous buying ete., ete., to say mothing
of greater ease of control by the Covernment through having
to deal with fewer organizations.
Artiele 12. The words "working costs" are removed and in
their plases are substituted "processing charge, repairing
sharge, or rates of other payments on property".
Gamment. The change in this Article extends the Government
authority more widely in the matter of price regulation.
Artiele 27. This Artiele has been completely rewritten, the
bulk of the changes being made to conform with other ohanges
regarding control over financial operations.
Artiele 29. The word "disposal" is ohanged to "purohase".
Commest. The reasons for this change are not clear. The
use of the word "purohase" instead of "disposal" in conneotion
with Artiele 15, which deals with the return to the owner of
expropriated property, seems only to transfer the supervision
of the Covernment from the seller to the buyer; whieh in
effeet does not change its interest in the transaction.
Artiole 32. A new Clause 3 has been added.
Comment. The new clause is a punitive one which sets forth
the elasses of violators who come under the earlier provisions
of the Artiole.
Artiele 34. In the list of violators two new items are added
to cover those who violate the new Clauses 2 and 3 of Artiolo
16.
Comment. The change in this Artiole is simply one whioh brings
It Into conformity with changes mmde in an earlier Article.
Artiele 38. The word "guilds" is changed to "an association".
and am extra item is inserted whioh refers to violators of
Item 6 of Artiele 18.
Comment. The first mentioned ohange is one whioh broadens
the application of the law beyond the rather limited and
spesirie meaning of the term "guilds", while the last men-
tioned change is made simply to conform with other changes.
Artiele 45. A new Clause 2 is added.
Comment. The effeot of the new Clause is to liable to the
same punishment as is mentiomed in Clause 1 or the Artiole
those persons who violate the provisions of the rewritten
Artiele 18. This new Clause has provoked considerable
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,343
March 5, 1941.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
seussien en the grounds that almost any busimess mam, dis-
mssing sueh matters as produetien and so forth with pros-
peetive eustomers, would be liable under the provisions of
this Artiele.
Artiele 4é. The Article has been generally rewritten, but
the substamee or the change is to substitute for the word
"guilds" the worés "organization or corporation", "juridical
person", and "organization whioh administers control by
order on the basis of this law".
Gomment. The changes have the effeot of greatly extending
the seope of this Artiole beyond the limited meaning of the
word "guilds", and renders liable any offieer of any of the
expanded olassirication of organizations.
Comment.
. Looking over the changes whioh have been made in
the National Mobilization Law indieates that the
following portions or the law have been dealt with,
and in a manner whioh will result in a muoh oloser
form of Government control.
(1) Control of labor.(artiole 6)
(2) Control of supply and demand of goods.(Artiole 8)
(3)
Use and roquisition of goods.(article 10)
(4)
Mobilization of funds.(Article ll)
(5)
Use and requisition of land and other immovable
properties.(rtioles 13 and 15)
(6)
Use of mining ri hts, patents, and inventions.
(Article 14)
(7)
Use of equipment. (Artioles 16 Clause 2;
18 Clauses 2 and 3)
(8)
Establishment aná suspension of enterprises.
(articles 16 Clause 3; 18 Clauses 2 and 3)
(9)
Enterprise control agreements. (Artiole 17)
(10)
Enterprise control. (Artiole 18 Clauses 2 and 3)
(11)
Commodity price control. (Article 19)
(12)
Loss compensation. (Article 27)
(13)
Establishment of Mobilization Compensation
Commission. (article 29)
(14) Other ohanges are almost entirely punitive
regulations.
B. Among the more vexing of the subjeots which have been
taken up in the course of the ravision of this law are
those of the control of prioes and the control of the
supply and demand of goods. It is these fields that the
majority of the evasions of the law have taken place, and
while it is thought that the greater severity of the new
law may act as a deterrent in many cases, the new regu-
lations have obviously not ohanged either human nature or
the workings of sconomic cause and effeot.
Q. Running through all the revisions of this lew is the
movement toward greater Government control and a greater
tightening of the methods of handling those matters which
are deemed to have the greatest bearing on the effort now
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Report No. 10,343
Mareh 5, 1941.
RESTRICTED
Page 3

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
being make by the mation. It is very evident that
this law will give the Geveramens complete contrel
ever all national esenomie and financial masters in
all their many ramiricatiens, as well as over many
of the activities of the individual. It should prove
the maximum, or very nearly the maximum, effert toward
direetiong the mstivities of the country along lines
desigmed to eope with the present emergenoy.
Harry I. T. Creswell,
Liout. Colonel, Acting General Staff,
Military Attache.
Diatribution:
0-2
主
N/A
File
From: M/A, Tokye.
Report No. 10,343
March 5, 1941.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
PESTRICTED
B1. Thé term national general Article 6. The Governanent wéen it
for the realigation of national defense services or retirement of employes or
for national guneral me
The Government when it la 
incident corresponding with a war, the d:tons, in accordance with provimons.
dame applying correspondingly to the of Imperia! Ordinances.
Gollowing parts).
Article 7 The Government when it
Article 2. General mobilization goods deems it necessary for national general
eral mobilization business, or
In this law denote things listed below: mobilization in time of war may issue
(1) armaments, war vessels, munitions necessary orders regarding the preven-
eral mobilization business to u r
and other military goods. (2) garments. tion or settlement of labor disputes or
expropriate them, in accordance wi
codstuffs. beverages and fodders the ciosing of plants. suspension of
provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
which are necessary for national gen- operations or restriction or prohibition
eral motiization. (3) medicines, medi- of act relating to labor disputes, in
when it is deemed necessary fer nn-
cal instruments, other sanitary materials accor ling to provisions of Imperial
tional general mobilization  time
and veiernary materials which are Ordinances
of war may use or exproprtate the
necessery for national general mobiliza-
Article 8. The Government when
mining rights or rights relating to
tion, (4) ships, airplane rolling stock
it decms it necessary for national
the use of water, and may cause a
and vehicles, horses and othe: mate-
general nobilization may issue
person who administers a general
riats fo transp rtation whoch are
necessary orders regarding the pro-
mobilization business to operate
necessary for national general mo il-
duction, repair. distribution, trans-
patent inventions or registered new
sation (3) goods for commuonication
fer or other disposal. uses. con-
utility models or te use the mining
eral mobilization. (6) engn eerng and
building materials and goods for light-
which are neces ary for national gen
go ds, in necordance with provisions
of Imperin! Ordinances.
sumption. holding and movement of
l by the Government under the pro-
of water.
Article 15. When things expropriat-
rights or rights related to the use
ing sytem wnich are necessary for
Artiee 9 The Gove nment when it visions of the preceding two Articles
national general mobilization (7) fuels deems  ne a for mational general have become out of use. and in case
and elect ie power whach t netessary mobilization in time of war may re- they are to be sold within a period of
or nat ona) general nob lization (s' str et  protibt exiortation or im- ie vears following their expropriation,
raw and oiher materia's ma iones and portation or me order exportation or p when things expropriated by a per-
tools. equrpment and other go ds whi i unportat on  ay umpose export son who conducts a general mobiliza-
are ne essaty for tie proluction. re duties or mmp ort du es. or may in-tion business under the provisions of
pair. di trtbution and conservat on of crease or deere export duties or Article 13, Clause 3. have become out
each of the foregoing ,tia ons  nd import duties. in secordance with pro- of use within a period of 10 years fol-
(9) good- tesdes ca h ot the tosegong viston of Imoe:  Ordirances.
lowing their expropriation, the former
which may be de gneted by umperial
Article 10. The Government
owners or former holders of the rights
Ordinance as necessry f national
when it is deemed necessary for na-
or legitimate successors to them may
general mobilization
tíonal general mobilization in time
bry them back on a preferential besis,
Art le 3 Geneau mobulzation bus-
of wer may use or expropriate or
in accordance with provisions of Im-
nessts der the la denote these
cause a persen who administers gen-
perial Ordinances.
which a.e listed below. (1) Busunesses
eral mobilization business to use or
Article 16. The Government when it
relating to the preduction epair dis
expropriate general mobilization
is nesessary for national general mobill-
trobution expontation m ctation and
gouds, in aecordance with provi-
ation in i me of war may restrict or
storng  gne mobdiz goodk
sion, of Imperial Ordinances.
prehibit establishment or extension or
(2) bas nme relatng 1 nanstorta-
Arte 1 T Gment when 
improvement of equipment belonging to
tion and  o nmtrmeatons whien are ne-
pecearypeneral mobi-a general mobilization bus ness, or may
cesces 1 nattonal general mobiliza-
Iizaton n f may restrict or order the establishment or extension or
tion. (3) basinesses relating to money
p: h thetabi: himent of corpora- improvement of equipment belonging to
and bankng which are necessary for
tions. capital consalidations, a general mobilization business, in -
relating 1 education and training
which are necessary for national gen-
whicn are necessary for national gen-
national general mobilization. (4) busi-
nesses relating to sanitation. veterinary
sanitation nd relief. (5) businesses
erel mobilization. (6) businesses rehat.
ing to experiments and researches
proft writing off of fixed assets or
and lso may issue orders against
tions of (úpital: and may lasue orders
regarding disp sition of corporation
othe: natters concerning accounting:
changes in the puposes of businesses.
flotation of debentures or the second
and subsequent calls for unpaid por-
cordance with provisions of Imperial
sary for national general mobilization
posal of, investments in, use and re-
in time of war may issue necesary
orders concerning transfer or other 
Ordinances.
The Government when it is neces-
era! mcbilization. (7) businesses relat-
ba companies. insurance com-
moval of. équipment belonging to a
ing to information and campaign of
panies and others designated by Im-
general mobilization busines, in 
education which are necessary for na-
perial Ordinances regarding the opera-
cordance with provisions of Imperial
nesses oncerning guarding which is
tiona! general mobilization, (8) busi-
neces-ary for national general mobiliza.
tion and (9) businesses besides each
Article 12. The Government when it
guaranteeing monetary obligations.
is necessary for national general mobi-
tion of their funds. or undertaking or
Ordinances.
ed necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may
The Government when it is deem-
of the foregoing which may be de
lization in time of war may make spe-
signated by Imperial Ordinances es ne-
cial arrangements in accordance with
cessary for national general mobiliza-
Imperial Ordinances, and irrespective of
tion.
the provisions of Articles 200 or 210 of
Article 4. In time of war the Gov-
the Commercial Code, for floation of
ernment when it deems it necessary
debentures or capital increase of a cor-
for national general mobilization
poration engaged in a general mobiliza
may enfist subjects of the Empire
tion business to meet expenses for
and place them in general mobiliza-
equipment belonging to the said cor-
Article 17. The Government when
tHon businesses in accordance with
poration.
provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 13. The Government when
This provision does not prevent the
it is necessary for national general
application of the Conscription Law,
mobilkaction in dime of war may
However.
manage or use or exproprlate the
approval of
Article 5. The Government when
whole or part of factorims or work-
the conchusk
it deems it necessary for national
shops or vessels and other facllities
of an agre
general mobilization in time of war
belonging to a general mobilization
may cause subjects of the Empire or
business or other facilitles which are
Juridical persons of the Empire or
convertible to t, in accerdance with
or cancel continal
whn the suate or local pablle o-
In case of use or expropriation of
ganenttions or other perads d
stgavited y the Government.
From: /.., Tokyo.
Roport No. 10,343
Marah 5, 1941.
PRICTED

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
them. In this case the Goverisio
priebs or their organizations to con-
trol she aald entprprises or arder
over it deems it necessary for national
them to establish an organization
ghheral mobilization may cause subjects
or eseporation with the object of
of the Empire or the employers of
lssues orders under the phe
opermatng for the control. An erga-
Japänese subjects to report regarding
nizytlon which is to be establlshed
the occupational ability of the Japa-
sate losses arising therefrons o
under the foregoing provisions shall
nese subjects, or may conduct exami-
monetary subsidy, In accordanc
be a juridiea! person.
nation concerning the occiupationa
provisions of Imperial Ordinances,
When persons who have been ordered ability of the Japanese subjects.
Article 29. The amount of comm
to establish an organization in accor- Article 22. The Government when-
dance with the provisions of Clause I ever it is necessary for national gen-
have failed to establish it, the Govern- eral mobilization may issue necessary
ment may take necessary measures re orders against the admínistrators or
15 shall be determined by the Govarn
garding the preparation of articles of managers of s hools. training institutes,
ment after consultation with the Gen
incorporation or other matters relative factories. workshops and other institu-
eral Mobilization Compensation Com-
to its establishment.
tions suitable for truning tochnicians
mission.
When an organ zation has been es- or the emplovers of persons who are
Rules governing the General Mobili-
tablished in accordance with the provi- to be tra nei. rugarding training of
zation Commission hall be prescribed
sions or Clause I. the Governiment may technicians ne essary fo national gen.
by Imperial Ordinance.
cause persons who have qualifications
eral mobilization.
Article 30. The Government shall
as the constituent members of the said
Article 23 When necessary for supervise the enterprise that receives
organization to become the constituent
nationa) general nob  zati n the Gov- the guarantee of profit or subsidy
members of the said organization.
ernment in ordance with provisions money under the provisions of Articles
The Government may cause an or-
of Imperia? Ord nances. may cause a 6 or 28. and may issue orders or tak
ganization which has been organized in
person whe  tgaged in the produe- measures which are necessary in this
accordanee with the provisions of
tion. sades o moortation of general conccction.
Clause 1 to obt in approval of the
nobilization g od. 1, hoid a certain
Article 31. When it is necessary
Government regarding the adoption or
fixed quant ty of the s 1 goods or raw
for national general mobilizatdon
change or abolit on of its control re-
on other matenrd ther of.
the Government by order may de-
guintions pertaining to enterprises of
Artic'e 21 When it is necessary
nand reports or may have the com-
its constituent members (including the
for gene"al mobilization the Gov-
petent officials inspect necessary
constituent members of its constituent
ernment, in accordance with provi-
places and examine bustness con-
members. this apply ng correspondingly
sions of Imperial Ordinances, may
ditions or books or documents or
to the following parts) or order it to
cause the proprietor of a general
other things.
adopt or change the control regulations.
me iszation enterprive or a person
Article 32. A person who, in viola-
or may order its enstituent member:
who shall bave to operate a gen-
tion of the order issued under the pro-
or persons who pre qualified to be it-
erəl mobilization enterprise in tine
visions of Art cle 9, has made an ex-
"onstituent members o, act in confor
of war to fornulate a plan regarding
port or import or has attempted
mity with the control egulations
grneral mebilizatien business which
to make it. shall be subject to
Matters pertaining to an organization
i to be operated in time of war. or
ponal servitude not excceding three
provisions of Article 16. Clause 2. or gene:a! mobilization goeds or the ad-
ment has ordered the transfer of facili-
ties or rights, or investment under the
or a corporation undea the provisons
perial Ordinances.
f Clause 1 shall 1 pre cribed by Im
Artiele 18-(2). In case the Govern-
ergaged n the pr duction or repair of
bilization may osie: , person who is
 nece ary for nstiona! general mo-
rray cause him to cenduct exer-
cises and training on the hasis of
A rele 25 The G rornment when it
the said plan
ported or imported or attempted to ex-
offender. may be confiscated. If it has
been impossible 10 confiscate the
the goods which the offender has ex-
port or import, if in possession of the
ar or a fine not exceeding ¥10,000.
In the case of the foregoing clauses.
has ordered the transfer of an enter- ministrator of an exverimental and re-
whole or a part of the said goods, their
prise under the provisions of Article 16. search institute to conduct experi-
value may be added to the fine.
Clause 3 necessary matters relating to ments and researches
A person falling under either of the
the succession to obligutions of the Article 26 When it is necessary for
following shall be subject to penal ser-
transferer or investor or disposition of national general mobilization the Gov-
vitude not exceeding 10 years or a fine
not exceeding ¥50.000.
Imperial Ordinances.
Artiele 18-(3). Regarding the trans- guarantee a certan fixxd amount of
sions of Imoerial Ordinances, may
or order issued under the provisions of
1. A person who violated an order
fer of facilities or rights. or nvest- profit or grant a subsidy within the
ments under the provisions of Article limit of its budget for a person who
2. A person who has violationn
article 8.
16, Clause 2; or transfer of en enter- is engaged in the production or re-
prise or consolidation of corporationt pair of general mobilization goods. In
order or issued under the providons
under the terms of Article 16. Clause this case. the Government may cause
of Article 19.
provisions of Imperial Ordinances, may Article 27. The Government, in ac order or restriction or prohibiton
the Government, in accordance wit). mobilization.
¥5,000: (1) a person who has violsted
calculation of the standard of tax levy. Ordinances. shall compensate losses a person who, in vielation o ordet
or may make arrangements for reduc- that may arise from measures taken under the provisions of Artiele all
tion or exemption of taxes.
Artiele 19. When it is necessary for 10, 13. 14 or Article 16. Clause 2; has refused or hindered or 
other payments on property.
visions of Article 11; ordens regarding provisions of Article 8.
From: M/A, Tokyo.
Roport No. 10,343
Mareh 5, 1941.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.92)
change or abollahed  control agree-
ment without approval of the Govern-
ment, or has violeted onders laesed
ness, he shall be subject to penal ser-
Article 18, Clause 5. (6) a person who,
vitude not excceding twe yeers or fine
land outside the territories where
in violation of the provisions of Article
23. does not hold goods. (7) a person
not exceeding ¥2,000.
Article 45. When at official or a
law is in force.
Article 50. The National Gene
who, in violation of the provisions of
person who has been engaged in ofh-
Article 26. does not produce or re;air
cial service has disclosed or secretly
lished to respond to inquiries from t
or install equipment.
used business secrets of a juridi:al or
Article 35. A person who has com-
natural person which he had come to
ters relative to the enforcement of the
mitted a criminal act under the pre-
knowledge of in relation with the
law (exclusive of those pertaining
ceding Artiele may be subjected to
exccution of his duties under the pro- the military rules).
both penal servitude and fine.
visions of this law. he shall le subje:t Rules governing the National General
Article 36. A person falling under
to penal ser itule not exceeding two Mobilization Commission shall be pre
either of the following shall be subject
years or fine not exceeding 2,oco. sribed by Iimperial Ordinance.
to penal servitude not exceeding one
The previsions of the preceding
year or a fine not exer sling Y1,000. (1)
clause shall apply in case an officer on
i per son who does not aceede to expro
emphoye or a person who bas ben
pration ot does not exccute the bust-
an offßeer or employe. ot an or gatuz.
res as unde toe provisions of Artiel
tion or corporation established for 
1 2: a perse who nat rorated orders
purpose of controling enterpuses unde:
issted ander the provisions of Article
the provisions of Article 18. Clau
1 or 3 or other nunidicat oerson 
Ar ucle 37 A pe son falhng un lo
other orgeenizatien which admamist
the of the foll wmng shall be sub-
controi y oder  the base er thes
et 1o a fin   exe ding Y3.(0): (1)
law. who has discdosed m se retly use
pr ho hs volate orde issued
business secetsf d
f Artcle 22 12) natural peron wnich e com
 dos notsecute raming execution of me dute
o f Aeie 21. 3)  person ployee of n orgaizaton .
 conduct exme nent and tion establishe for the por
n vottronf orders su-troltuus enterp
1 ne t prvsoe of Ariete 25 sions of Article 18 Chse 1
Ar  A pen fte un or other jurhendsn or 
l be subje organizatem whueneter 
e  Yi o d a by oder on the h th 
v received ordemp
ued oe le the po vr ions of Artele ceptance of  probe n conprcteon 
1 C fasdu
AC3commit
Artcle 30 14  potson wh his re five years
flected repe tng or made false report The bribe eer the e
in violation of ordet issued unvler the the feregong clater lali be confi
orevisions of Artiele 31.
cated. If the whoie ,  of
Article 39. In case of a news-
could not be confiscatee s value sho
paper having violated restriction or
be levied on the said person.
prohibition as under the provisions
Article 47. A person who has give
of Article 20. Clause 1. its publisher
or offered or pronmised a bribe to the
and editor, and in case of other pub-
person mentioned in the prece in.
lications their publishers or authors.
clause. shall be subject to penad se
shall be subject to penal servitude
vitude not exeeding wo vears on ti
or imprisonment not exceeding two
not exceeding Y
years or fne not exceeding Y2,000.
When a person who he commtt
In case of a newspaper. a person
à erime under the orrreding ats
who actually was in charge of edit-
has surrendered humiself to justice. the
ing and one who signed the article
penalty may be lightoned  he mas
or articles involved, besides the edi-
be exonerated
tor, shall be subject to the foregoing
Article 48. When  p esentativ of
provisions.
a juridical person or prox, of a juridi-
Article 40. A person who hindered
cal or natural person or oth or empioy
the provisions of Article 20. Clause 2. ted an act of vioiat n under the pio-
shall be subject to penal servitude or visions of Article 31. Clire 2 to Arti
imprisonment not exçeeding six months cle 34. Artiele 36. Clause 28. Article 37.
or fine not exceeding 500.
38. or the fore part of Article 43. the
Article 41. The stipulations of the said juridical or natural person shall
Criminal Code regarding concurrent be subject to a fine or minor fine pro-
crimes shall not be applicable to a vided in each of the above Articies. in
crime under the foregoing two articles addition to the punishment of the said
Article 42. A person who has res act of violation.
fused or hindered or evaded the inspec- Article 49. The provisions of the pre-
tlon by the competent officials as underceding Article shall be applied to an
the provislons of Article 31 shall beset committed in land outside the ter-
subject to peftal mervitude not ewpeed-ritories where this law is in force by a
ing six months or ine not exceedingressesentative or proxy or employe or
¥500.
pther operative of a juridical person.
Article 4s. A person who, in viola-who has his beadquarters or main busi-
tion of the provisions of Article l. hashess office with the territories where
ueed orthis Law is in force. The same shall
tne apt
exgc
fine.
From: M/a, rokyo.
Roport No. 10,343
Naroh 5, 1941
Page 9
RESTRIC

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
Confidential
OFFICE OF
ADMINISTRATOR OF EXPORT CONTROL
DEC8 15
2068 MUNITIONS BUILDING
WASHINGTON
December 9, 1940.
Rm 98
DECLASSIFIED
E.Q. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D)
lil
QSD letter, May 3, 1972
894.50/145
MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF, DIVISION OF CONTROLS,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
Subject: Economic Conditions
in Japan.
Receipt is acknowledged of your memo-
randum of December 4, 1940, inclosing a copy
of report No. 12 from the commercial attache
in Tokyo on economic conditions in Japan.
This information is appreciated.
R. L. MAXWELL,
Colonel, (OD), G.S.C.,
Administrator.
MAY:17 1941
FILED
WEC:BJW
PS/HH
Confidential

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.94)
Confidential
December 9, 1940.
MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEP, DIVISION OF CONTROLS,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
Subjeot: Roonomie Conditions
in Japan.
Reseipt is acknowledged of your memo-
randum of December 4, 1940, inolosing a copy
of report Mo. 12 from the commercial attache
in Tokyo on economio conditions in Japan.
This information is appreciated.
K.L. Maxwell
R. L. MAXWELL,
Colonel, (OD), G.S.C.,
Administrator.
BECLIOSIFIES
WEC:BJW
11652. Sec. 3(E)d 50)
CD Letter, Mary 3. 199
Confidential

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.94)
13562
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Kobe, Japan, May 6, 1941.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER UN
INERNATIONA FONMIC AFFAIRS
Division of
JUN 16 1941
708
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STAMESENT
4-1941
Department of State
O.N.I. AND M.L.D.
REK
SUBJECT:
Cessation of Publication of Mitsubisni
2
Economic Research Bureau's Monthly
55
Gircular.
0
oF
E
PH
D sibution-Check
Yea
No
THE HONORA
C
E
Grde
To hold
In U.S.A.
ONT
HE SEGRETARY OF STATE
DCAP
14
JUN 1 8 1941
894.50/146
Commerce
WASHINGTON
PecordingDesk
File-J.P.F.
SIR:
RESEA
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
I have the honor to report that the Consulate
JUN 12 1941
DIVISION OF
has been informed by the Mitsubishi Economic Research
Bureau that it has discontinued the publication of its
Monthly Circular with the April 194l issue. A refund
on the Consulate's subscription to this journal has
been made by the publishers.
The Monthly Circular, which is an "Analytical and
Statistical Survey of Economic Conditions in Japan" is
of course well known to the Department. In the April
PS/HK
VIS  CIAL
SEITS
issue, the number of which is 21o, indicating that the
JUN 27 1941
FILED
JUN 2 6 1941
jourtal has been issued for more than 17 years, there
appeared a statement as follows:
"Tokyo, 1st April, 1941
DEPART
"Dear Sirs,
Owing to the recent enactment of the
National Defence Seourity Law, our "Monthly
Ciroular", whioh specializes in the statistical
and analytical survey of Japanese economic
conditions, will be placed under grave restric-
tions. We have therefore decided to suspend
9x1
publication

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
publication temporarily, and you will not
receive our Ciroular subsequent to April,
1941 (No. 210).
On this occasion we wish to express our
gratitude for your valuable support in the
past, and beg to assure you that the un-
expired subscription will be refunded as
soon as possible.
In conolusion, we wish to express our
willingness to supply you with any economic
data, the publication of which does not
transgress against the laws of this country.
We remain, dear Sirs,
Yours very truly,
MITSUBISHI ECONOMIC RESEARCH BUREAU"
Many students of economic conditions in Japan made
full use of the Monthly Circular, and although at times
doubt is cast on the reliability of Japanese statistics
("The authors' picture of Japan's prosperity and
economic invulnerability is probably too rosy, due to
their excessive respect for not always reliable Japanese
statistics"--from a review in FOREIGN AFFAIRS, April
1941, of "The Industrialization of Japan and Manchukuo,
1930-1940", Schumpeter et al.), the Monthly Circular
will nevertheless will be missed by those who are
interested in economic studies of Japan, especially
at a time when there is so much debate as to the economio
strength of Japan as a factor in international relations.
Respectfully yours,
AmeelSobohin
Samuel Sokobin
600/020
American Consul
SS/mh
Original and 4 copies to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Supervisory First Secretary, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate, Osaka.
2.140

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.94)
NAVY DEPARTMENT
Office of the Chief of Naval Operationa
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
INTERNATICNAL ECONOMIC AFFARS
WASHINGTON
GLAUG11 194
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 4, 1941
RECEIVED
AUG 1 3 1941
Department of State
5C
AUVISER
MR. HORNbECr
AUG 9- 1941
Den
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Orme Wilson
Subject:
Economic Conditions in Japan
Attached is a copy of a report from
the Commandant of the Twelfth Nayal District, concerning
current conditions existing ip apan. This information
was furnished by Mr. A. T. HeMyer, who arrived in San
Francisco on July 30, 194l, on board the Tatuta Laru.
AUG 1 2 1941
May
Heg no her.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
H. E. Keisker,
Commander, USFR
Mr. Orme Wilson
Room 185
DECLASSIFIED
Department of State
 11652. Sec. 3(E) nd 5(D)
Washington, D. C.
OSD letter, May 3. 1972
894.50
AUG13 1941
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
NAVYDEPARTMENT
f the Chief of Naval Operationsorts ntrans
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
AUG 5 1941
AUG 6 - 1941
WASHINGTON
leue
0p-16-B-7
DIVISION
BAIE
D REC
July 14, 1941
ERNA
2.8
HAUG-4 1941
EA
CONFIDENTIAL
Bh
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCR
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Orme Wilson
Department of State
Cohy sent o Tokyo
Subject:
Economic Conditions in Japan
The attached is a report received fro the
Commandant of the Twelfth Naval District on "Economic
Conditions in Japan."
This may be of interest to the State Depart-
ment.
894.50/148
H. F. Kingman,
Captain, U.S. Navy.
Mr. Orme Wilson
Department of St te
Washington, D. C.
874
DECLASSIFIED
U- LIAISON OFFIdE
EO. 1162. Sec. F md 5(D)
Hil2/13/73
OSt le.
18194
PS/AG
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONFIDENTIAL
FILED

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.93)
United States Nabal Intelligence Serbice
INVESTIGATION REPORT
CONFIDENTIAL
120
SUBJECT:
ECOMOMTIC CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
Report made at:  lcth Daval Diatriat, San Franaisco. California Date July 7.
1941
Report made by:
Lieutenant Harold B. Schlammer. U.S.N.R.
Period covered:
July 4. 1941
Status of Case: Closed 12ND
Origin of Case:
Twelfth Naval District, San Francisco, California.
Information furnished by Mr. Harold Thompson, who arrived in
San Francisco on July 4, 194l, on board the YAWATA MARU, to
Naval Intelligence Officer.
Character of Investigation:
An interview of Mr. Harold Thompson.
Enclosures:
None
Copy to:
ONI (2)
File (2)
Source File No.
BF37/C0-16 (160)
ON1 File No.
SYNOPSIS:
Informant relates Japan is supposed to have at least oae years supply
of oil operating at full wartime strength. Germans moving into every part
of Japan in business and government, getting into key positions and promot-
ing 5th Colum activities all over Japan. Ample supply of rice this year.
Steps being taken to try and promote foreign trade. Pro-German Matsuoka
regim expected to be changed to Namoru Shigemitsu who is pro-Ameriean and
pre-British.'Infermant feala lapen doas net want to and will not go to war
againet the United States.
OF
B7(
REC
Reproduetion of this materled
y form is not anthorized
sreept by meolfic approval e
  h N
Liwien
COMMENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
None
APPROVED: R. P. MoCULLOUGH
District Intelligenee Officer
EUGENE J. KERRÍGAN
H.P.SCHLEMMER/do
By direetion

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
DEGLISS:FIED
2. 1152. S.
. Mr. Hareld THompsos, an American eitisen, returned te San Framcisco
TamarA Manu" July 4, 194l. For the past five years he has been in
axgeets to leave San Francisco for Washington on July 5, 1941.
2. Mr. THompsoN states that the Japanese, generally speaking, are very
"fed up" en the Germans; they have come to Japan and are fercing their way into
emsry eorner. The German business man is giving the Japanese real competition
in Chima; as the Japanese take new territory the Germans are right there to start
in delmg business. This used to be an exclusive and lucrative field for the
imts high Japanese gevernment offices. They are active in authoritative positions
in the following:
Division of Censorship
Home Departmont (Police)
Educational Bureau
Through these key pesitions they are spreading their propaganda. Por awhile
the Germans had rough going to get into top positions with the armed forces,
but have finally succeeded and are now active with their plans both in the Army
and Navy.
3. Mr. THOMPSON feels that until Matsuoka is changed as Foreign Minister,
Japan's attitude towards us will not change very much, as Natsueka is very pro-
German and is responsible for the German people coming into Japan in such large
numbers.
4. Japan has numerous secrets that are always being diseussed among the
pepulase, two examples are as follows: Huw much oil have we? Are we building
many ships eto.? Mr. THOMPSON'S answer to the question of oil is that he has
reasen te believe Japan has a large reserve supply of oil, enough for at least
ene years full fighting strength. In shipbuilding it is very difficult to
ebtain much information but it is his belief that & large battleship has just
recemtly been commissioned although he could not give confirmation of this.
The gevernment in many ways is doing & rather blundering job; as an example
this year there will be a plentiful amount of rice, where at one time during the
year rice was being rationed and now the condition exists where there probably
will be some rice wasted due to the poor estimates of the government department
handling this activity. Cenditions are not as bad as most people are lead to
believe with regards to foed, clothing, etc., which are obtainable in reason-
able quamtities. In the interior however there are some parts where this is
not entirely true; reeently a group of about l00,000 young boys 15 to 16 years
old were brought from the interior to Tokyo to see the Emperor and parade and
beseme enthused to fight for Japan. These boys were poorly dressed, appeared
underfed, and many had no shoes. The morale of the Japanese people is not good,
they are very bitter about the endless China war and are very concerned about

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
Gurrent conditions existing in Japan.
1
5. Mr. Thospsos feels that the Americans over-emphasise the dislike and
hatked of the Japegese toward the U. 3. A. and it is his opinien that they will
be & eed matien and co-operate with the United States as they realise the
Shigemiten, fermer Ambassader to Great Britain replacing Matsueka and if this
eseurs it will be of tremendous impertanee in changing the very pre-Cerman
peliey ef the Matsuoka regime to the pro-American and pro-British trand of
Mamera Shigemitsu with probably most of the cabinet being changed at the same
time. At the present time an air of uncertainty prevails throughout Japan and
the leaders are baffled by the swift turn of events, but it is Mr. THOMPSON'S
epinien Japam is net anxious and will not go to war against the United States.
6. The English Intelligence are doing a very fine job in the orient and
our ewn Intelligence is likewim well organised. Mr. THOMPSON has had occassien
to ce-operate with beth units through the United Press offise and it is his be-
leif that mest informative and excellent reports on conditions ete. come through
our Japanese Embassy to Washington with regularity.
CLOSED
DECLASSIFIED
RO. 11652, Sec. 3(E) cnd 5(D)
Hl
OSD letter, May 3. 1972
thman2/13/73
111
the
-3

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.94)
NAVYDÉPARTMENT
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
WASHINGTON
July 11, 1941
CONFIDENTIAL
K. HRNBECK
August 1,19
JUL 19 1941
Division of
RECEIVED
AUG 4 - 1941
Copy sent to Treasury
Department of State
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Orme Wilson
Subject: Economic Conditions in Japan
The attached report concerning economic
conditions in Japan may be of interest to you.
Ho.Kiegmany
894.50/ 149
H. F. Kingman,
DECLISSIFIED
Captain, U.S. Navy
es
RO. 11652, Sec. 3(E) nd 5D) 
Hilpthnan 12/3
OSD letter, May ? 1972
DRICE OF THE ADVISER UN
INTERN AFFAIKS
AUG21941
8941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. Orme Wilson
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
PS/AG
FILED
AUC4-1941
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
DECLASSIFTED
NTIAL
11652, S0. ) nd 
EOT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
Mr. Julio Jesus Passas Coelho, a British subject residing at 77
Sagiyama Naka-ku, Yokohama, Japan, who arrived on the KAMAKURA MARU June 28,
1941, for the purpose of conducting business with R. J. Roesling & Company,
243 California Street, San Francisco, gave the following information regarding
economic conditions in Japan:
FOOD:
A quota system was inaugurated in Japan for distributing food
in November, 1940. Food cards were issued for rice, flour, sugar,
and other foodstuffs, but by poor management the distributing of the
food and the cards became confused and a great deal of dissension
arose among the poor class of people. This confusion has been
alleviated by the import of German technicians who now have complete
control of food, clothing and gasoline tickets. At the present time
eighteen kilos of rice per month per person are permitted,- approxi-
mately two pounds per day for a family of four persons, and four
pounds of sugar per month. A serious shortage of tin has necessi-
tated the packing of most food in glass containers, and at the present
time empty beer bottles are being employed as containers for food.
A shortage, at present, of potatces is very acute, and in Yokohama
and Nagoya every available space is being used for the planting of
potatoes and other vegetables.
CLOTHING: Woolens, cottons and felts are very difficult to purchase, and
a process of using a pulp mixed with cotton is being employed as a
substitute for pure cotton goods. The price of leather shoes has
made them nearly prohibited. Shoes that would normally retail for
eighteen yen are now retailing for 50 yen, and tanned sharkskins are
being used as a substitute material in the construction of shoes.
GASOLINE: Cards permitting the bearer one gallon of gasoline per day are
being issued at present, but approximately 75 per cent of the private
cars and motor busses that are operating are using charcoal fuel and
a mixture of a vegetable and fish oil is being used for lubrication.
IRON AND METALS: Throughout all of Japan a concerted effort is being made
to reclaim iron and metals. The iron manhole covers are being
replaced by wooden covers, and a house to house campaign by ex-service
men is in effect. This campaign is to obtain copper, brass, aluminum
and lead. There are some aluminum utensils to be purchased in large
department stores, but their prices are prohibited.
POLICE: The Secret Police and Gendarmes have become very strict and corrupt
at the same time. The many restrictions placed by the government upon
the merchants have made it nearly impossible to conduct business
without infringing onsome law, and as a result it is a common practice
among the merchants to close the probing eyes of the police with
financial gifts.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Enclosure A

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
JECT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
BuSINESS: Since June 1, 1941, all business accounts must be kept in Japanese.
The shortage of staple commodities has forced many merchants to close
their stores except for two or three hours a day because they lack
sufficient merchandise to stock on their shelves. There is also a
bitter complaint and considerable amount of hardship resulting from
evacuation of American and English citizens from Japan. These people
were the means of bringing American dollars and English sterling into
Japan in considerable amounts and their leaving has closed many clubs
and caused considerable hardship to those Japanese citizens who were
employed as servants. As a result of these depressing conditions
small merchants and farmers have become very much disillusioned and
disheartened by the government's inability to bring the Sino-Japanese
war to a conclusion and there is an increasing distrust in the German
Japanese pact which is believed to be blocking Japan from making
millions out of the present conflict in Europe, and there is an
increasing reference to the fact that during the last world war huge
fortunes were made, but during this present conflict misunderstandings
and pacts have caused the economy of Japan to grow constantly worse.
The gossip among Japanese business men is to the effect that Japan is
playing her last card with the United States and it is believed that
Prince Konoye's new convenient sicknesses are a sign that he and
Mr. Matsuoka are about to resign, and that a new government will be
formed of men who have a more friendly attitude for the government of
the United States.
E
CONFIDENTIAL
Silpthan 12/1373
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
TMENT OF STATE
HEUNDER SECRETARY
LIAISON OFFICE
7-24-41.
Miss Christenson:
I discussed with Capt. Kingman the
tamp that you brought to my atten-
tion, "Reproduction of this material
in any form is not authorized except
by specific approval of the Secre-
tary of the Navy". He informed me
that this did not apply to the State
Department, FBI or MID.
U-L:KA:EMA
Y

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.88)
qee
21
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JUL2
Department of State
It
intnt
d
loth
Plzan lowh afte thei
64

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.93)
R
EE
RECEIVED
ashington,B.C.
NOV 28 1941
PERSONAL AND
DIVISION OF
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
894.50/150
Dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest to vou, I am
attaching hereto a copy of a memorandum dated
today reflecting a report received by this Bureau
from a source of information closely connected
with Saburo Kurusu, special envoy of the Japenese
Government.
894.50
Sincerely yours,
0
EGE
FILED
Enclosure
61941
BY SPECIAL
MESSENGER
RS
PS/WL
FAD EASTERN AFFAIRS
1941
1
Department of State
V 26 14
filk
Juotice Department Guidelines, 1-27-1984
By RTG
NARS, Dato 5-16-4984

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.96)
Nevember 25, 1941
MEMORANDUM
Inforsstien reseived from a soures elosely
eennected with Saburo Kurusu, spesial envey of the
Japanese Covermment, indieates that the financial struo-
ture of Japan is presently in a weakened sondition. In
reply to a suggestion that finanoial interests in the
United States be appresehed relative to improvement of
Japanese ecenssis conditions, the source of infermation
assertedly replied that Japan could not do that beesuse
swck a move would be a direet admission of ite weakness
and might causs the United States Govermesnt to be mare
"diffienlt" during its present conversatiens with the
Japansse representatives.
When this "bluffing attitude" was called to
the attention of the souros of information, the latter
reportedly admitted that it was to make every effort to
adjust this extremsly serious mitustion that Kurusu flew
here frem Japan.
The indicated source of information further
allegedly stated that "There will be no war between the
United States and Japan."

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
894.50
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japan's war potential:
Ministry Economic Warfere making special
study on,- and as e. part of a much larger
work on Japan's economic end industriel
position has completed a preliminery sur-
vey; desires department's cooperation in
assembling any informetion as to how far
Japanese industry is in e position tc main-
tain military forces under blockade condi-
tions.
894.50/151
v1b
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See  Tel. 5727. 12 pm
(Deepakok, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From Great Britain (Winant)
DatedMoy..27.1941
xRo
PS/GD
File No.
894.20/272

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.97)
U-L
ALH
London
This tElegram must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated November 27, 1941
fore being comunicated
to anyonE. (br)
REc'd 8:30 p.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
5727, November 27, 12 p.m.
DEpartment's tElEgram 4222, Octoher 3; Embassy's
despatch 2127, November 19.
Ministry Economic Warfare is nov making a spE-
cial study of Japan's war potential and as a part
Nate
of a much larger work on Japan's Economic and
industriel position has completed a preliminary
survey, copiEs of which arE bEing forwarded with
894 50
Embassy's dEspatch no. 2l95, November 27. Ministry
feels thct this preliminary survey fails to answer
thE main question of how far JapanesE industry is
in a position to maintain military forces under
blockadE conditions and would greatly appreciatE
Department's cooperations in assembling any infor-
mation already availablE in Washington on thE follow-
ing points:
(1) Iron and steεl production Japan, Korea,
Manchukuo and North China.
(2) Iron orE production particularly in Man-
chukuo and Korga. Present annual production and
futurE planned production

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
L2- #5727, November 27, 12 pom., from London
futurE planned production from thE Tungpientao
dEposits in SouthEast Manchuria and thE Mosan
deposits in Korea.
(3) DEtails of blast furnaces, steel furnaces,
rolling mills and cokE ovens. (a) installed during
recent years, (b) under construction:
(4) Position of cokE supply for iron and stEEl
industry. ArE deposits of reputedly good coking
coal at Tungpientao bEing Exploited and what is thE
production and planned production? When is this coal
shipped to (*)?
(5) What quantities of iron orE bEing obtained
from China--Tayeh minEs in Central China and from
North China?
(6) SynthEtic oil production. (a) prEsEnt and
Estimated futurE output, (b) difficulties in ob-
taining thE nEcEssary coal, (c) any interfErEncE
with development through stoppagE of German machinery
supplies.
(7) Is therE any shortagE of mining labor?
ArE therE difficultiEs in sEcuring Northern ChinEsE
and Korean labor for coal and iron minEs in Manchu-
kuo and Korea?
(8) To what extent has moralE been affected by
(a) shortages of goods for civilian consuuption
and of thE increasing restrictions therEon, (b)
the mationing

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
-3- #5727, NovEmber 27, 12 pom., from London
the rationing of ricE and nforced mixing with
other cereals, (c) any shortages of oil affecting
the fishing industry?
(9) Transport. (a) Is the railway system
being overworked and is thE equipment shoving any
signs of dEterioration, (b) is thE transport of
Essential goods bEing unduly dElayed?
(10)
JapanEsE mining activities in Indochina
or Thailand particularly as regards Exploitation
of manganesE deposits and phosphates in Tongking
(urgently rEquired).
(11) Stock poaition. (a) what stocks of war
materials Especially non-ferrous mEtals havE been
accumulated, (b) what is thE public warehousing
position. ArE therE difficulties in finding
storagE space?, (c) have largE stocks of scrap
iron been accurulated in recent years?
If so
wherE is it stored and what area cover?
(12) Production of Explosives. British offi-
cials bEliEvE bEtter information is availablE in
United States on thE phenol position and suggEst
that the Moneauto Chemical Company might bE hElpful
as rEgards synthεtic phenol.
(13)
AutomobilE industry. (a) EstimatEd
production, (b)

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
-4- #5727, NovEmbEr 27, 12 p.m., from London
production, (b) Extent of assistancE in production
of tanks and aircraft.
ThesE questions havE also bEen discussed with
Military AttachE who is advising G-2 War Department.
VIINANT
WSB

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
DeR
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Anited States Department of Justire
STATE
Mashington,D.U.
REOETVED
November 28, 1941
PERSONAL AND
DEC 5- 1941
DIVISION 01
Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
NOV 1941
Dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest to you, there is
attached a copy of a memorandum dated November 28,
194l, reflecting miscellaneous Japanese information
894.50/152
received by this Bureau from an outside confidential
source.
Sincerely yours,
26. 2Aoover
Enclosure
ision of
2
874.50
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
BY SPECIAL
1941
MESSENGER
Departroent of State
CC
Captain T. S. Wilkinson
Director, Office of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
DE
Brigadier General Sherman Miles
Assistant Chief of Staff
C
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
PS/RH
NOV 2 9 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Justice Department Guidslines, 1-27-1924
5-16-1984
B.V RTG

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.95)
Nevember 26, 1941
The fellewis infermstion conceraing Japan has been
reseived from am outade confidemtial soures.
The Spinnng mills in Osake and the poreelain and china
iadustry in Mageya have been foroed to eut tweir produstien to
appreximately one third their normal eutput because of the shertage
of feel end eleotrie power. Further, the train service between
Gsake and Magoya bas been redueed from fourteen to seven trains
daily for the syme reason, and the Wippen Doeki Kaishe in Hagoya,
whieh nermally amploys eight hundred people, has been forced to
alese.
It bas been reported further that the Manking government
premised to send one hundred thousand Chinese laborers to Germany
and intimated that they would be leaving for their destimation
shortly. In addition, the Manking goverament sent a seeret agent
to Hong Kong for the purpose of buying old ships, and this ropre-
sentative has been successful in obtaining tmo or three vessels,
ome at a cost of $150,000. Hosever, the names of these boats were
net ebtained. In this connoction, Japam assertedly is short one
million five hundred thousand tons of shipping.
It has also bean reported that the Chinese Bighth Army
is on its way to help Russis.
The manager of ome of the leading Swedish steel firms in
Japan, now im Mew York City, bas aassrtedly stated that during
April, 194l, & large consigmment of steel for the Japanese Aray
arrived at Tourugs. Although the order for this material was urgent,
it was twe months before the steel reashed Tokyo. At that time, the
infermemt reperts, be saw only swo piers where ships could unload
at Tsuruga and at about the same time some high grade steel for
miming drills was alse delivered to that losality, but this was
lest and found ome month later under a coal dump.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Bconomic conditions in France; report on-,
SUBJECT
from Mr. Grandgerard, Otis Elevator Company in
Jupan.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
894.50
Memo.
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From/ State Department
Dated Nov. 4. 1941
To Div ision of Far East ern Affairs
(Langdon)
File No.
894.00/1146
U. 8. G0VENNT PRINTING ICE 11840
th

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.89)
0C
FE
CONFIDENTIAL
2ATH
RDivision of
FÀR EASTERN AFFAIRS
5T
Department of State
don
JAPAN
89450/154
Economic Estimate
May 27, 1941
KA.
CFFICE OF THE AOTBER ON
INTIRNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
NOV 1 8 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LITICAL
DEC 20 1942
me.
CAKNBEUN
N - 1941
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMNON
NOV 1 8 1941
DEPARTMENT UF
OF
DIV.
894.50
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
A Summery List of the Chief Rew Materials and
Manufactures Exported and Imported by Japan
(Such commodities es livestock, greins, coel (except
coking coal) have not been listed beceuse Japen is neither a
significant importer nor en exporter of these items.)
Sufficient (to export):
Insufficient (must import):
Brushes (bristles)
Abaca
Camphor
Acetone
Cotton cloth
Ammonium sulphate
Creosote oil
Antimony
Electric light bulbs
Asbestos
Fish products
Borex (sodium borate)
Furs
Butonal
Gless and glassware
Carbon black
Hat braids
Chromium
Iodine
Cinchona bark
Menthol (a camphor derivetive)
Coal (coking)
Oils (vegetable end fish)
Copper
Perille Oil
Copra
Porcelain
Cotton, Raw
Pyrethrum flowers
Cryolite
Silk
Fluorspar
Tea
Grephite
Textiles
Gum rosin
Toys
Hides and skins
Iron Ore
Jute
Lead
Mangenese
Mercury
fethanol
ifica
Molybdenum
Nickel
Palm kernels
Petroleum
Phosphete rock
Platinum
Potash
Quinine
Rubber, Raw
Salt
Scrap Iron
Sitka spruce
Sodium nitrates
Teakwood
Tin
Wood pulp
Wool
Zinc
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN
Economic Estimate
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.
General Economic Characteristics
a.
Natural Resources
1
b. Dependence on Foreign Trade
2
2.
National Productive Capacity
a. Agriculture
3
b. Fishing.
3
c. Supply of Other Foodstuffs.
5
d. Animal Industry.
6
e.
Other Raw Materials.
9
Mining.
21
g•
Manufacturing.
32
3.
Commerce
a. Domestic Trade.
36
b. Foreign Trade.
37
4.
Transportation
a.
Railroads.
44
b. Highways.
44
c. Water Transportation.
45
d. Air Transportation.
46
5.
Conmunications
a.
Cables.
47
b. Radio.
47
Telegraph.
48

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
Abaca - 10
Cinchona bark - 16
Acetone - 18
Coal - 23
Agriculture - 3
Coke - 23
Air Transportation - 46
Commerce - 36
Airplanes - 47
Communications - 47
Aluminum - 27
Copper - 29
Ammonium sulphate - 19
Copra - 13
Animal by-products - 7
Corn - 5
Animal Industry - 6
Cotton - 13
Arable Land - 3
Creosote oil - 18
Asbestos - 9
Cryolite - 29
Banking - 50
Currency - 50
Barley - 5
Docks - 45
Bauxite - 28, 29
Domestic Trade - 36
Borax (sodium borate)-16,17
Dual Citizenshin - 56
Bristles - 8
Economic characteristics - 1
Buckwheat - 5
Electricity-Power Stations-33,34,35
Budget, National - 48
Expatriation - 56
Butonal - 18
Explosives - 36
Cables - 47
Exports - 37
Camphor - 16
Fertilizers - 19
Canned fish - 4
Finance - 48
Carbon black - 17
Financial stability - 53
Cattle - 6
Fishing - 3
Chromium - 32
Fishing boats - 3

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Fish products - 4
Manufacturing - 32
Fluorspar - 29
Meat - 6
Foodstuffs - 5
Merchant Marine - 45
Foreign trade -2,37-42
Methanol - 18
Fowls - 6
Mica - 31
Furs - 7
Milk - 6
Glass and glassware - 9
Military Equipment - 36
Goats - 6
Millet - 5
Graphite - 31
Mineral resources - 21
Gum rosin - 16
Mining - 21
Hides and Skins - 6
Molybdenum - 32
Highways - 44
Natural resources - 1
Horses - 6
Mickel - 30
Imports - 38, 39
Nitrogen - 19
Income, National - 48
Oilseeds - 13
Iron - 24
Oils (vegetable and fish)-13,14,15
Iron Industry - 26
Palm kernels - 14
Iron Ore - 24, 27
Petroleum - 21, 22
Jute - 9
Phosphate rock - 19
Labor - 57
Phosphorus - 19
Lead - 31
Pig iron - 25
Leather - 7
Population - 54, 56
Livestock - 6
Potash - 20
Machinery - 35
Potassium - 19
Manganese - 31
Production capacity - 2

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Public Debt - 52
Steel - 24
Pulp wood - 20
Swine - 6
Quartz crystals - 31
Taxation - 50
Quinine - 16
Teakwood - 21
Radio - 47
Telegraph - 48
Railroads - 44
Telephone - 48
Railway Equipment - 44
Tin - 31
Raw Cotton - 13
Trade Routes - 45
Raw Materials - 9
Tungsten - 32
Raw Rubber - 1.0
Urbanization - 55
Raw Silk - 12
Vegetables - 5
Rice - 5
Water Transportation - 45
Road Transportation - 44
Whaling - 4
Rubber - 10, 11, 12
Wheat - 5
Salt - 18
Wood pulp - 20
Savings - 51
Wool - 8
Scrap iron - 25
Zinc - 31
Sheep - 6
Shellfish - 4
Shipbuilding - 36
Shipyards - 45
Silk - 12, 42
Sitka spruce - 21
Sodium nitrates - 20
Steel Industry - 26

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
1
CONFIDENTI.L
Japan
Economic
JAPAN
Economic Estimate
1. General Economic Charecteristics.
a. Natural Resources. The Japanese islends constitute an area
ebout equal to that of Celifornis, but only about one-seventh of this
area is arable. iost of the arable land is under cultivation; future
increeses in totel production of agricultural commodities, therefore,
will be negligible under present agricultural methods.
The scercity of raw materials in Japan is the greatest
hendicap to economic independence. Until recent months, food would
not have been included, but at present, the basic commodity of food
is rationed along with other raw materials. Although man-power has
been cheeper than machinery, man-power must have good food in order to
function at maximum efficiency. Since the beginning of the Chinese
"Incident", the intelligent disposition of man-power, as one of the
natural resources, hes become a factor of importence in the industrial
life of the nation. Such industries as silk and tee growing, cotton
spinning and handiwork heve required individual work rather than that
of the machine. Industry requires raw materials; men-power requires
food - in this statement is conteined the major problems confronting
Japan at the present time to a greater extent than these problems
confront any other country.
Even though raw materiels were available, Japenese industry
has not yet reeched the stage where the country would be self-sustaining
in the manufecture of ll necessary supplies for a serious war. For
example, the lack of fecilities, for refining in unlimited quantities
of aviation gesoline, or the manufecture of high quality mechine tools,
are illustrative of menufecturing needs with which Japan would be con-
fronted. Ye cen see vividly how difficult Japan's problem is when we
realize that nearly one-half of her people live on farms. Of these,
one in every three families is dependent upon silk culture for their
livelihood. In meny instences, the income from silk means the differ-
ence between bare sufficiency end dire privstion. Since the United
States consumes over 85% of Japan's silk, the weekness in Japan's
economy is obvious. If Japan were deprived of this export trade in
silk, 18,000,000 persons would be reduced to privation.
Politically, the State of Manchoukuo is not & part of the
Jepanese Empire. Actually, Japen exercises control over this country
and in time of war the resources of Manchoukuo will be evaileble to
Japen like any other part of the Jepanese Empire. This fact hes been
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
2
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
taken into consideretion, and Japan's economic position in war has
been estimated on the basis of the inclusion of Menchoukuo as an in-
tegrel part of a wertime Japanese Empire.
In the same way, but not to the seme extent, we must consider
the occupied provinces of China in the seme category es Manchoukuo;
they are not at present & part of the Japanese Empire in the political
sense, but we can depend on the fact that the resources of a portion of
the territory now occupied by Jepan in China would be aveilable to the
former country in case hostilities should be expanded in the Orient.
Economically, the Japanese Empire may be regarded as consist-
ing of three distinct parts: (1) Jepen proper, including the main islends
of Honshu, Shikoku, Kyushu, and Hokkaido; (2) the remeinder of the
Empire, including Manchoukuo and thet part of occupied China over which
she could continue to exercise control in an extended war; and (3) terri-
tories over which she has nominal but not actuel control such as Indo-
China and Thailend from which she expects considereble essistance in the
forms of increased importetion of raw materials. Assuming uninterrupted
trade between these three portions of her economic empire, the Jepenese
still could not consider themselves independent economicelly of the rest
of the world.
b. Dependence on Foreign Trede. Japan's present economic stabilit:
depends to a considerable extent on cheep labor, low stenderds of living,
the export of rew silk, silk and cotton goods, and the importetion of
rew cotton and other essentiel raw meterisls which are needed both for
home consumption, the manufacture of wer meterials, and on the menufacture
of erticles for exnort. The "vicious circle" runs ebout es follows:
Imports of rew materials ere cut down to minimum essentiels in order to
conserve a rapidly shrinking balance in internetionel exchenge; when
imports of rew materiels ere cut down, exportsble goods are decreesed;
when exportable goods are decreased, belance in foreign credits is de-
creased thet much more. The acceptance by the Japanese people of in-
ternel menipulstion and regulation by the government prevents totel
financiel collepse. Deficiency of raw materials snd the continuing
need of foreign markets for the disposal of her manufactured goods make
Japan dependent on foreign trede in war as well as in peace. Any power
or combinetion of powers which can obstruct this trede completely can
seriously cripple Japan.
2. National Production Capacity.
An astimate of the productive capacity of the Japenese
Empire includes a consideration of the resources of Hanchoukuo,
portions of China which heve been occupied and other portions of the
Orient from which Japan can receive raw materials. In time of war
with countries other than China, Japen will utilize to the maximum
the resources of the portions of the Asiatic continent over which she
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
3
CONFIDENTIAL
Japen
Economic
has direct or indirect control. The following discussion will indi-
cete roughly the extent to which Japan cen become independent of sources
of supply outside of the Asiatic continent.
e. Agriculture
(1) Distribution of Lands. The area of lands under tillage
in Japen in 1937 was 6,098,000 Cho, approximetely 15 million acres, or
15.8% of the total area of the country. This percentege is less then
helf of that for Germany or Italy. The rest of the country is too
mountainous for farming purposes end is thus utilized for forestry
(62.7% of the total aren), and for miscelleneous other purposes, 21.5%.
The proportion of areble land in other parts of the Empire
is higher than in Japan proper becsuse of the more fevorable conditions
of geogrephy and topography.
The totel number of farming households in 1937 wes 5,574,879
or 42% of the entire number of households. There has been a gradual
decline in this ratio, the percentage in 1903 being 64.7% and that for
1924 being 50.38%. The aree tilled per farming family in 1937 was 1.09
Cho or epproximetely 2.7 acres.
The ratio between free-holders end tenents in 1937 wes 31%
to 27% while 42% is represented by perties which are free-holders as
well es tenants. The trend over the pest twenty years would indicate
that the perceit of free-holders is diminishing while combined free-
holders end tenants ere increasing.
fore then helf of the entire areble lend is used for the
production of rice end more then helf of the value of ferm produce is
represented by this cereel. While formerly Japen proper was self-supply-
ing in the cereal, the demand hes so expended es to necessitate imports
from ebroad - from other perts of the empire es well es other countries.
At present Jepen imports between 20 end 25 percent of her needs from
Chosen end Taiwan alone.
b. Fishing. On account of her unique position es & maritime
country, Japan's fishing industry hes developed until todey Japan occupi.
the first position in the world in the output of aquatic products. In
1938 these amounted to ¥754,758,284, and engaged as many as 1,442,713
persons in the various branches of the fishing industry. Of this number
1,143,618, were males end the rest females. From two to three percent
of all the people in Japen proper, Korea, Formosa, end Karefuto ere en-
gaged in fishing.
The total number of boats and vessels engaged in fishing at
the end of 1938 was over 356,482 of which 288,327 were without engines,
while 68,155 were with engines. It is obvious that if Japan should be-
come involved in war with a strong navel power, her fishing fleet would
be extremely vulnerable.
A classification of the fishing industry of Japan would in-
clude coastal fishing, pelegic (deep sea), whaling, trewling, fisheries
in Russian waters, as well as floating canneries in Kamchatke and in
the North Atlantic.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
4
Japen
Economic
Japan is on a strong export besis in fishing products, the
exports of which represent an important source of foreign exchange.
These exports have been increasing in recent years because of super-
vision end stimulation by the Japanese Government.
Exports of fishing products fron Japan mey be divided into
two groups: (1) Those which are generelly taken by countries within
the Jepanese sphere of influence; and (2) those which find markets in
Western countries, perticulerly the United Stetes and the United King-
dom, as well as in British end Dutch Asiatic possessions. The first
group consists lergely of boiled, dried, and salted fish, whereas the
second consists predominantly of "fresh" (frozen) and canned fish.
The United Stetes is by fer the most important merket for
Japanese exports of "fresh" (frozen) fish and shellfish. These ex-
ports consist almost exclusively of frozen swordfish, frozen tune, and
seed oysters, for a 5-year average ennuel tota1 of $786,000.
The United States renks second es a merket for Jepanese
exports of εll canned fish and shellfish combined, having taken in
recent years, in terms of velue, from 15 to 30 percent of the totel.
Since t!e outbreek of the European wer in 1939, Jepen is finding it
difficult to dispose of the canned fish normally taken by the United
Eingdom - formerly the principel merket of these products.
The United States is the principal market for Japanese
canned crab meat, imports of which have averaged 44 perceat of our im-
ports of all fishing products from Jepan in the last 5 years, and amounte
to $2,945,000. Restriction of imports by the United States would in-
flict serious economic injury to Jepen, end could destroy the entire
Jepanese crab cenning industry. Jepenese operete canneries on Soviet
soil.
The United Stetes is also the most importeat merket for canned
tuna, importing epproximetely $1,230,000 worth. Jepen is not likely
to find a ready market for her canned tuna should imports into the
United States be prohibited.
Thus it cen be seen that imports by the United Stetes of
various products of the Japanese fishing industry smount to more then
$5,000,C00 annua11y.
Large quentities of fish end fish-liver oils ere rendered in
Jepanese shore end floeting fectories, end sbout equally large quantities
of whale oil are produced. Wheles taken in Japanese snd Korean waters
yield 10-15 million pounds of whale oil annually, while whele-oil pro-
duction in flosting factories operating in Antarctic waters in recent
years hes been es high es 150 million pounds.
According to the report of the Commercial Atteche of April
25, 194l for the week ending April 19, reports sre becoming quite preva-
lent that there is e "shortage of fresh fish in Japanese merkets, due
largely to shortage of materials such as fuel for motors, cotton yarn
end hemp for making nets end rope, tonic dyes to protect nets end rope,
and iron end steel for meking engines end other machinery necessary
for fishing operations.
"Between 1936 and 1938 there was a decrease of two million
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
5
CONFIDENTIAL
Jepan
Economic
pounds of fish in the annual catches, or a percentage decline of
16. hile no figures are available, it would not be st all sur-
prising if the reduction in the 1940 catch would not amount to
something like 20% below that of the previous year."
c. Supply of Other Foodstuffs. In the 1930's Jepan proper, with
the help of its colonies, Chosen end Taiwan, prectically echieved self-
sufficiency in food requirements. Jepan depends upon imports for 35
percent of its millet and 65 percent of its corn, but the consumption
of these two products is so smell thet they play little part in the
Japanese diet. Japan is self-sufficient in barley and buckwheat.
In the pest few years wheat production in Jepan increesed
to a point where it is not only sufficient for domestic requirements,
but also leaves a small net exportable surplus. Japan imports e con-
sidereble volume of wheat (6,624 tons in 1938) which is principally
of types different from those produced domestically. Part of this
wheat blended with domestic wheat is exported in the form of flour.
In recent years (since 1938) the volume of such exports in terms of
wheat has exceeded that of imported wheat.
Food self-sufficiency has not been echieved in Japan at
the expense of under-consumption. The rise in the per cepite consump-
tion of grains, leguminous crops, vegetebles end fish over a long period
of years bears this out.
Wherein, then, is the food shortege concerning which there
have been so meny reports recently? The answer cen be found in severel
conditions three of which would be (1) the high quality end quentity of
food sent to the Japanese armed forces in China, nd (2) poor crops
of rice in Chosen in 1939-40 and in Jepan proper in 1940-41, and (3)
deterioretion and subsequent fsilure of their trensportation system,
both lend and sea. /See page 44 under "Trensportation"/. Hence,
Jepanese rice imports from Burma, Thailand, French Indo-China end China
ere estimated at over 4 billion pounds es egeinst en average of over
100 million pounds normelly supplied from these sources. In other words
Japan cen provide an adequate amount of food if there is no failure in
eny one basic source, but if there are poor crops in any one grain,
then the shortage is felt in all.
Under normel circumstances, a serious food problem could
arise in Japan only if she were denied access to Menchurian soybeans,
Chosen's rice, and Teiwan's rice end sugar. In case of crop failure,
a serious food problem could arise if Japen were deprived of rice from
Burme, Thailand, and French Indo-China.
Reduced to caloric value, the food consumed by e Japanese
comperes well with that of other countries. Based upon European
standards the food the Japanese consume reveals glering deficiencies
largely because vegetable, rether than animel, food predominates.
From the point of view of Oriental stendards, however, Jepanese diet
is perheps the best bεlanced.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
6
CONFIDENTIAL
Japen
Economic
d. Animel Industry.
(1) Livestock. During the decade 1930-1940, the
increase in the number of horses and cattle hes been very slow,
often tending towards decline. The number end distribution of
enimals in Japan can be summarized briefly as follows:
(a) Horses. Horses at the end of 1938 numbered
1,431,920, consisting of 816,599 female end 615,321 male.
(b) Cattle. Cattle at the end of 1938 numbered
1,894,261, (female 1,435,249; male 459,012).
(c) Swine. The number of swine at the end of
1938 totalled 1,140,479. The reising of swine hes been showing a
sharp advance during the past decade, the number at the end of the
decede being nearly double that at the beginning.
(d) Sheep and Goats. Sheep and goats at the end
of 1938 numbered 114,000 end 281,741 respectively, the former in-
creesing as compared with the previous year (89,8i5). There hes
been a slight tendency towerd increase during the period of ten
years.
(e) Fowls. The total number of fowls at the end of
1938 was 48,395,452. During the pest ten years the number has in-
creesed by neerly 100 per cent.
The export and import trede in livestock is negligible.
There is no wey of accurately estimating the number of horses the
Japanese have sent to Chine since the beginning of the "Incident".
(2) Livestock Products.
(e) Milk. The quantity of milk obteined in 1938
amounted to 1,768,679 koku (approximetely 84,894,500 gallons) valued
at ¥44,093, 769. The number of cows milked wes 107,878 at the end
of 1938.
(b) Meat and Animels Slaughtered. The number of
slaughter-houses at the end of 1938 was 716 and the number of animals
slaughtered were as follows:
Horses
40,807
Cattle
365,581
Calves
34,967
Swine
1,217,988
Sheep
3,090
Goats
45,826
Total 1,708,259
(3) Other Animal By-Products.
(a) Hides end Skins. Jepan is almost entirely de-
pendent upon imports for its supplies of hides and skins, despite
efforts to develop domestic production. During the five yeers 1934-
1938 an annual average of only 329,000 cattle hides, 37,000 calfskins,
2,000 sheepskins, and 54,010 goetskins wes produced within the
country.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
7
CONFIDENTIAL
Japen
Economic
Cattle and buffalo hides are grouped together in Japanese
import statistics. During the yeers 1935-38 Japan imported ennually
an average of 2,O18,000 hides. Principal sources, in the order of
their importence were: Chine, the United States, Argentina,
Australia, end Theiland. These countries supplied 1,635,000 hides,
or 81 percent of all imports. Imports from the United States ever-
aged 415,000 hides, or 20.6 percent of the total. Thus it can be
seen that en embargo on United States' exports of hides end skins
to Japan would be ineffective unless the cooperetion of other prin-
cipal sources of supply could be secured. Such cooperation might be
obtained from ritish Empire and Western Hemisphere nations which
customarily account for about 75 percent of Japanese imports. Should
this be done, Japan would be forced to rely for its supplies upon
Manchuria, Kwantung, the occupied areas of China, French Indo-China,
end Thailand. Imports into Japen from these arees combined have
everaged only 507.000 hides, or about 25 percent of requirements.
Shipments from these arees could be increased somewhat, but not
enough to offset a 75 percent loss.
(b) Leether and Leather Manufactures. At present
there are ebout 50 smell but well equipped tanneries in Japan and
numerous small household plants.
Beceuse of the expension in the Japanese leather in-
dustry, there wes & definite decline in Jepenese inports of leether
in the period 1935-1939; in 1939, this trede amounted to only
569,500 pounds, of which the United States furnished 150,900 pounds.
Even though all imports of leether in Jepen were cut off, that country
could supply its own requirements provided the essential raw meterials
were available. There would be no economic advantage, therefore, in
embergoing United States' exports of leether to that country, unless
an enbargo on United Stetes' exports of hides end skins should creete
an unusual demand for leather and leather products.
Total Imports into Japan (Animal By-Products)
1935
1936
1937
1938
Cattle nd buffelo hides
(number of pieces)
1,795,000 1,841,000 2,634,000 1,800,000
Other raw hides (sheep
and goats (no.of pieces) 3,787,000 4,395,000 3,754,000 1,809,000
Leather (pounds)
1,976,000 1,730,000 1,823,000
735,000
(c) Furs. Jepen has an exporteble surplus of furs
averaging 3,599,411 yen annually during the period 1935-1939. Ninety
percent of these exports went to the United States; since 1938 spproxi-
mately 80 percent have consisted of mink. Other countries of destin-
etion were the United Kingdom, Canada, China, Germany, and France.
But the value of the exports of furs in the 5-year period of 1935-1939
amounted to only one-tenth of one percent of the value of the exports
of all comnodities from Jepan, and the value of Japanese shipments of
furs to the United States wes only six-tenths of one percent of the
value of the exports of ell commodities to the United States.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
8
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(a) Bristles. Japan is dependent upon China and
Manchoukuo to meet her requirements for bristles. In 1937, she im-
ported ¥1,194,000 from Manchoukuo alone. In 1938, this trede
amounted to ¥1,951,000 and the first half of 1939, it was ¥902,000.
On the other hand, imports of bristles by the United States from
occupied China in 1940 were valued at over $4,000,000; imports by
the United States from Jepen were valued at $515,000.
As 90 percent of the world's bristles originate in
China, United states brush manufecturers are dependent on imports
from that country. The hairs removed from hogs reised in the United
States are neither stiff nor coarse enough to be clessified or used
as bristles. Thus stoppage of imports from Japan snd occupied China
other then those used for peint brushes would not herm the United
Stetes economically. Most of the tooth end toilet brush bristles
used in the United States are imported from unoccupied parts of China.
(e) Wool. The production of wool in Japan is insig-
nificant end more than 90 percent of the wool consumed in Japen is
imported, but annual imports have been sharply cut in recent years
from 200,000,000 pounds to barely more then 100,000,000 pounds.
This development is due in part to declining exports of textiles
but more largely to the enforced substitution and intermixing of
rayon in goods for domestic consumption.
The chief sources of supply for Jepan ere hustrelia,
New Zealand and Argentine. Japen hes made provision for substantial
quentities of medium and fine wools in Australie but has not epper-
ently acquired the whole of the quantities allocated. Fsirly large
purchases were made, however, in South Africa in 1940. Increasing
quantities of carpet-type wool, now epproximating one-fourth of all
requirements, are being drewn to Jepan from the siatic Mainland.
Japen hes endeevored to ecquire ell of Chine's export surplus amount-
ing to not quite 40,000,000 pounds.
Jepen eppears to be somewhet short of wool notwith-
standing curteiled exports and intermixing of synthetic fibers in
fabrics for domestic consumption. Werehouse stocks, not including
mill stocks, are probably about half the amount formerly cerried and
less than two months' requirements. Full cooperetion between the
Latin American countries end the British mpire in the matter of the
exports of raw wool to Japen could hendican but not destroy Jepan's
woolen industry.
Imports of Rew Wool
1
Year
Quentity
Value
in 1.000 1bs.
in ¥ 1.000
1930
115,999
73,919
1931
191,374
86,518
1932
206,858
88,321
1933
242,620
165,818
1934
184,379
187,667
1935
247.275
193,092
1936
221,382
204,342
1937
261,182
299,500
1938
117,895
96,312
1939
107,497
74,473
Note: (1) Including tops and goat and cemel hair.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
9
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
e. Other Raw Materials. A number of raw materials not included
in one of the preceding sections nor in the following section on
"Mining", will be considered at this time.
(1) Asbestos. Japan has no resources of good quality as-
bestos in the territory which she controls, and only negligible quan-
tities of inferior grades. She is therefore, elmost entirely depen-
dent upon other countries for her raw meteriel. Vith the exception
of the Soviet Union, it would seem quite easy to prevent supplies
reaching her industry.
Canade is an important source of unmenufactured esbestos
for Japan. Cenadian exports to Japan were 6,683 short tons in 1932;
9,530 in 1933; 18,489 in 1934; 15,597 in 1935; 21,200 in 1936; 33,334
in 1937; and 24,015 in 1938. The increase from 1932 through 1937 may
meen en increasing Jepenese menufacturing industry, or the accumulation
of stocks for future use.
Without Canadian assistance the United Stetes could
not seriously embarress Jepanese industry by cutting off exports;
with Cenadian assistance, the United Stetes could obstruct Jepanese
imports of raw materiels in esbestos.
(2) Glass and Glassware. Jepan is practicelly self-suffi-
cient in glass products. United States' imports of glass and glass-
ware from Japan normally represent less than 15 percent of the total
United Stetes' imports of this product but in 1940, imports from Japan
amounted to about 25 percent of the total, or about $460,000. The
increase epparently wes because of the loss of the United States to
the exports from Germany, Belgium, and Czecho-Slovakia.
The loss of the United Stetes' market alone would be
relatively unimportent to Japan, but its loss, together with that of
the British Eanire and Netherlands' controlled countries, would seri-
ously disrupt the Jepanese glass industry end considerably restrict
that country's purchasing power abroad.
(3) Jute. Japan proper in normal times is probebly only
about 5 percent self-sufficient in jute. Taiwan with about 8 to 10
times the production of Jepan proper, has e small surplus in some
years but a deficit in others. There is, however, en extreme short-
age of jute bags in the Jepenese area et present end requirements ere
greeter even than usuel.
Rew jute together with jute products was brought under
export control by the Indian Government in September, 1939, but to
whet extent the Indien Government mey actually be restricting exports
to Japen is not at the moment epperent.
Jute: Exports from ritish India to the United States
and Japan for years shown. (Year beginning
April 1; in 1,000 pounds).
Year
Japan
United States
1931-32
22,219
110,018
1934-35
52,199
115,483
1936-37
79,336
197,579
Av. 1934-35
to 1938-39
50,037
156,576
1938-39
32,272
69,673
1939-40
24,548
93,034
(ten months)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
10
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(4) Abaca. For practical purposes the world supply of
abaca, or Manile hemp, can be said to originate in the Philippine
Islends. About one-fourth by value of ell Philipnine exports of
abaca are taken normally by Japan. It is calculated that abaca
consumption in Jepen represents about 60 percent of total consump-
tion of cordege fibers of all kinds. Abaca is of special importance
to Jepen because of properties which make it of particuler velue
in marine rope and other high grade cordage. Since there is no satis-
factory substitute for abace, this fiber is of great strategic im-
portance, particulerly to any country having large marine interests.
Abaca:
Exports from the Philippine Islands to the United
States and Japan for years shown. (in 1,000 1bs.)
Year
Japen
United States
1934
127,089
92,772
1937
100,720
89,671
Average
1934-38
116,827
85,026
1939
79,796
109.866
1940
107,910
131,299
Imports by number of bales, of Philippine abaca fiber
into Japan and estimated uses of this fiber in Japan:
Total - 351,134 beles
Uses
Braid
12,886 bales
Twine
34,526 beles
Rope
138,829 bales
Paper
164,893 bales
(5) Rubber. The rubber industry of Japan consumes about
60,000 tons or 5.5 percent of the world consumption of crude rubber
in 1937, the last year for which official figures ere available.
Although Japan ranks fourth in rubber consumption after the United
States, the United Kingdom and Germany, the generel scele of factory
production is as yet smell.
Production of rubber menufectures in Japan decreesed
from 75 million yen in the prosperous year of 1929 to 56 million yen
in 1931. Beginning with 1932, production agein sharply increesed
reaching 135 million yen in 1936.
Japen imports her entire supply of crude rubber. An
attempt was mede to introduce rubber trees in the Bonin Islands end
in Formosa, but the attempt was unsuccessful. The most importent
sources of Japen's crude rubber are British Melaya end the Netherlend's
Est Indies. Approximately 62,000 long tons were imported in 1937,
but this volume fell to approximately 46,000 1ong tons in 1938.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
11
CONFIDENTIAL
Jepan
Economic
Imports of Crude Rubber end Exports of Principal Rubber Goods
(In ¥ 1,000)
Imports of Crude Rubber
Exports of Rubber Manufactures
Quantity
Boots & Tires of
(long tons)Value
Shoes Vehicles Toys
Others
Totel
1930
32,731
17,930
6,592
5,273
2,049
1,279
15,194
1931
43,483
13,183
4.394
3,858
2,198
1,044
11,495
1932
56,028
15,988
4,889
3,725
5,506
1,479
15,600
1933
66,831
29,685
8,213
8,839
8,633
3,327
29,013
1934
69,905
57,337
3,332
9,994
6,406
5,215
24,948
1935
57,565
51,636
2,699
9,945
4,195
6,568
23,408
1936
61,681
72,956
1,832
9,939
4,641
7,423
23,575
1937
62,182
99,217
2,886
12,983
4,279
10,215
30,363
1938
46,282
51,374
1,568
7,799
2,197
10,323
21,776
1939
42,336
1940
45,000*
*1940 estimated.
Rubber Exports from Indo-China end Thailand
Indo-China exported 59,200 tons of rubber in 1938; 65,219
in 1939; and 64,437 in 1940. Thailand exported 41,600 tons in
1938; 41,753 in 1939; and 43,940 in 1940.
Thailand has exported practically all its rubber to Maleya
from which place it is distributed to world markets. Minor ship-
ments to the United States accounted for 15 tons in 1939 but 1,033
tons in 1940.
Indo-China rubber exports have been neinly to the United
States, Frence and British Maleya. The following table indicates
the destination of the rubber from Indo-China.
Rubber Exports from Indo-China - Metric Tons
1937
1938
1939
1940
(8 months)
Total
45,137
58,023
68,880
38,007
United States
16,065
20,938
29,383
11,191
France
10,421
17,282
23,183
20,650
Singepore
4,778
10,467
9,264
5,918
Japan
5,034
1,199
286
Belgium
1,633
2,774
1,014
United Kingdom
444
2,557
867
248
Other
6,762
2,806
4,883
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
12
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Since very little, comparatively speeking, of the exports
of crude rubber from Theiland and Indo-China has been going to
Japan, it can be safely observed that any drastic shifting of this
trade to Japen will cause considerable readjustment of the finenciel
position and outlook in Thailand and Indo-China.
The events of the past few months have brought Thailand
into the economic if not the political orbit of Japan. s an economic
satellite of Japan, Theilend could offer, and in all probebility is
offering, her rice, tin, teak and rubber exports - products the impor-
tance of which to Japan are indicated by the increesed purchases of
foodstuffs and minerels which thet country has made in southeestern
Asia in recent months. Thailand, like Indo-China, is fitting neetly
into Japan's economy end affording en ever-improving spearheed for
Jepan's more southerly and westerly advance. For example, planes ere
being sent by Japen to Thailand (an estimated 125) which will be peid
for by raw rubber and tin. Other militery supplies which are being
sent to Theiland include tanks and munitions. It is believed that e
considerable amount of the raw rubber and tin is being re-exported by
Jepan to Germany.
Since the Jepanese consume only 60,000 tons of raw rubber
and since Thailand and Indo-Chine are cepable of exporting 110,O00 tons,
it is eesily possible for Japan to re-export considerable amounts to
Germeny through Russis if Russia will transport the rubber to Germeny.
Indo-China and Thailend ere important but are not indispen-
seble sources of supply for the United States. A fact of importance is
thet Japanese eggression and acquisition of raw rubber in the two
countries constitutes a threat to the international influence of the
United States.
(6) Raw Silk and Silk Vaste. Japanese rew silk exports to
the United States produce about 12 perceit of the total
foreign exchange obteined from exports of all products from Japen.
Approximately 2,000,000 out of 5,500,000 farms engege in sericultural
activities; it is estimated that some 18,000,000 persons derive all
or part of their income from the silk industry.
In the five years 1935 to 1938, 84 percent of all Jepanese
raw silk exports were to the United States. Conditions during 1940,
however presented a sharp contrast to the high prices and strong
foreign demand which prevailed during the previous years. In January
1940, prices for one grade dropped from ¥ 2,410 per bale to ¥ 1,650
per bale. After this abrupt decline, prices moved slowly downward
during the first six months until they reached a low level of : 1,350
per bale, the price at which Government purchases were made in order
to stebilize quotations. The Japanese Government has found it necessary
to give extensive financial support to silk farmers. The existing
depression in the raw silk industry is because of (1) diminished demands
of Americen importers and, (2) government distribution end price control
which curteiled domestic purcheses.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
13
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Japan's total exports of raw silk during 1940 are estimated
at 289,382 bales which is a decline of 25 percent as compared with
the previous year. Production for the current year (l94l) is estimeted
at 550,000 bales, with only 250,000 beles for export; this compares
unfavorably with the 386,000 beles exported during 1939. The Govern-
ment will obviously find it necessary to add to the 100,000 bales which
it purchased in 1940 to stabilize the market.
The United Stetes is dependent only upon silk weste which
is required in the production of cartridge bag cloth in large caliber
ordnance and for certridge igniter cloth. Substitutes cen be used for
other purposes where silk is not used. The tremendous weight that the
prohibition of the importation of silk would heve upon Japenese eco-
nomic life would justify increesing the stock pile of silk waste in the
United States immediately.
(7) Raw Cotton. Japan needs ebout 1,500,000 bales of cotton
per yeer to support her present export trede in textiles. Peek consump-
tion in Japen was 3,850,000 bales in 1937. Her stock pile in rew cotton
probebly amounts to about 650,000 beles or sufficient to sustein her
cotton industries for eight months. Cotton menufectures continue to be
the largest item in the export trade of Japan.
Because of surpluses of cotton throughout the world, and so
long es Japan continues to heve access to sources of supply in the
British Empire end British protected countries and in Latin Americe,
Japan is in a position to dispense with imports from the United States.
Her imports of Brazilian cotton for seven months ending February, 1941,
amounted to 216,000 beles; her imports of Peruvien cotton in 1940 were
59,300 bales; her imports of Indien cotton will be more then all other
sources combined. It is to be observed that all the sources of
Japenese cotton are under the control of United Stetes, Latin American
and  ritish controlled countries. Although the United Stetes could
take no action singlehendedly, the cooperetion of the three groups just
mentioned could seriously curtail Japan's industrial production in
cotton textiles. Japen understands this and is meking feverish efforts
to make herself independent of the Western Hemisphere by obtaining con-
trol over larger cotton producing areas in southeest Asia.
(8) Oils end Oilseeds. Imports of oils as such into Jspan
ere usuelly small, Japan being a rather large exporter. But imports
of oilseeds sre considerable. Most of the oilseeds imported are
obtained from Japanese territories or arees under Japanese control.
Thus practicelly all of the imports of hempseed, peenuts, perilla seed,
rapeseed, seseme seed, and soybeans originete in Menchoukuo, Chosen,
and Occupied China. liore than 90 perceat of the cottonseed imported,
and epproximetely two-thirds of the imports of cestor seed snd flexseed
are obt&ined from this cree. Only in the case of copre and pelm kernels
is Japen largely dependent on countries outside its own sphere of
influence. Japan's chief sources of supply of copre hes been from the
following countries (figures show number of 1,000 pounds average for
years (1934-38): Netherlands'Indies, 13,728; Philippine Islends, 6,659;
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
14
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Straits Settlements, 3,148; 3ritish Borneo, 2,901. Chief sources
of supply of palm kernels ere as follows: British iislaya, Nigeria,
Belgian Congo, French West frice and Brazil.
The United Ststes ordinerily provides the principel
merket for Japanese exports of vegetable oils, teking most of the
perilla oil, repe oil, and cottonseed oil exported.
Despite the epparent high degree of Japenese self-suffi-
ciency in oils as well as fats, & strong Jepanese demend for imports
of lard, coconut oil, copre, end glycerine from the United States
and the south Pscific region recently has developed. United States
exports of fats and oils to Japan ordinsrily are negligible. In
December 1940, this situation chenged with the unususl shipment to
Japan of 1,120,000 pounds of lerd and 2,308.000 pounds of glycerine.
In Jenuery 1941, the United States shipped 1,568,000 pounds of 1erd
and 778,000 pounds of glycerine. In Februery, 4,330,000 pounds of
lerd end 603,000 pounds of glycerine were shipped.
Since October 1940, Philippine exports of copra and coconut
oil to Jepan heve been considerably larger then usual.
Beceuse of the fact thet purchases by Jepan of oils heve
been shipned in metel conteiners end copra shipments hsve been made
in jute begs, indicating rehandling end trans-shipping, end because
of the lerge demend in Germany for these products and beceuse Japan
is usually emply supplied with these commodities, indicetions ere
that these large Jepanese purchases ere for eventual German consump-
tion.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
15
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
conomic
Supply and Disposition of Specified Oils and
Oilseeds in Jepen Proper. Average 1934-1938.
(in 1,000 pounds)
Supply
Disposition
Commodity
Total
Production
Imports
Exports
Domestic dis-
appeerance
1.000 1bs.
1.000 1bs.
1.000 1bs. 1.000 1b8. 1.000 1bs.
Vegetable oils:
Castor oil.... 26,137 1/
25,693
44 2/
536
25,601
Coconut oil... 37,702
34,836
2,866 3/
1,118
36,584
Cottonseed oil 39,890
55,805
4,085
22,033
17,857
Linseed oil... 14,852
14,852
1,375
13,477
Hempseed oil.. 3,265 4/
3,265
3,265
Peanut oil.... 6,460
6,460
6,460
Perilla oil... 45,607
45,607
34,638
10,969
Repe oil...... 98,992
98,992
36,092
62,900
Sesame oil.... 14,488
14,488
2/
284
14,204
Soybean oil...115,562
114,927
635
7,605
107,957
Teaseed oil.
707
707
707
Tung oil.
3,094
1,185
1,909
3,094
Total
406,756
396,817
9,939
103,681
303,075
Oilseeds:
Castor seed..
61,174
61,174
61,174
Copra.
57,710
51
57,710
57,710
Cottonseed...
184,074
184,074
184,074
Flaxseed.
41,496
10,476
31,020
41,496
Hempseed
20,389
20,389
20,389
Peanuts.....
68,663
27,254
41,409
165
68,498
Perilla seed. 138,933 1/
400
138,533
138,933
Repe seed.... 324,289
264,290
59,999
4,880
319,409
Sesame seed.. 53,550
8,543
45,007
53,550
Soybeans....1,993,449
716,749 1,276,700
1,518
1,991,931
Total oil-
seeds
2,943,727
1,027,712 1,916,015
6,563
2,937,164
1/ Estimated. 2/ Average 1935-38. 3/ Averege 1936-38 4/ Average
1934-37. 5/ Includes tots1 exports from Jepanese Oceania, presumebly
to Japan.
(9) Chemicals. Fertilizers end Related Products. In 1939,
the Japanese imported ¥ 247,466,002 ($64,249,598) of chemicals, fer-
tilizers and related products; during the same yeer, Japan exported
¥ 153,851,447 ($39,944,451) worth of the same materiels.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan
16
CONFIDENTIAL
Economic
(e) Cinchone Berk end Quinine. The supply of anti-
malarial medicinal quinine for both the United Stetes and Japan is
obtsined from imported cinchona bark end imported quinine. The
Netherlands' Indies now supplies about 90 percent of the world
production of cinchona berk, with British Indis and Latin America
supplying about helf of the remaining ten percent. Part of the
produdtion of the Netherlands' Indies is consumed by the quinine
factory et Bendoeng, Java, the largest in the world, and the rest
is exported or held in stock.
Japan imported from the Netherlands' Indies 3,450 pounds
(gross weight) of quinine or crude quinine in 1937; in 1938, the
amouat was 63,034 pounds; in 1939, 75,525 pounds were imported.
If the United States end Great Britain could control
shipments of quinine and cinchone berk to Japan from South America,
British India, and the Netherlands' Indies by negotiation, purchase
of stocks, or by force, Japan would be seriously affected by lack
of these strategic materials.
(b) Gun Rosin. Japan imported 59,695,684 pounds of gum
rosin in 1937, she imported 24,834,610 pounds in 1938 and 30,435,086
pounds in 1939. 0f these amounts, Japan imported 53,557,238 pounds
from the United States in 1937; 19, 804,909 pounds in 1938; and
22,820,500 pounds in 1939. China, French Indo-Chine, Mexico,
Nicarague end Brazil are other sources of gum rosin which Japen has
used since 1937.
Thus it can be seen that unless all other sources of the
meterial cen be cut off, it would not be profitable for the United
States to embergo its own supply of gum rosin.
(c) Camphor. Japan, including Formose, has a world
monopoly of the production and distribution of natural cemphor.
Export of raw cemphor to the United St&tes in 1936 emounted to
2,226,000 pounds; in 1937, the emount was 851,000 pounds; in 1938
it was 627,O00 pounds. The development of synthetic camphor by the
Du Pont company hes reduced the requirements of the United States
for natural camphor. Although the synthetic product cannot be
produced as cheaply es natural camphor cen be imported, the Du Pont
company has a production capacity sufficient to supply 80 percent of
United Ststes'consumption and could in a few months expend its
capacity to supply the full requirements.
The prohibition of imports of natural cemphor from Jepan
thus to shut off foreign exchange amounting to 450 to $650,000
annually might be recommended.
(d) Borax (Sodium Borate) Japan meets its needs for
borex by imports from the United Stetes and Argentina.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
17
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Borax: Estimated Immorts into Jepan in 1929.
and 1937-1940
(in Long Tons)
From
Year
United States 1
Argentina 2/
Total
1929
5.000
5.000
1937
14,900
4,900
19,700
1938
7,100
4,6C0
11,700
1939
5,500
5,900
11,400
1940
11,600
31
31
11
Crude end refined.
2/ Crude only.
3/ Not available.
An effective embargo of supplies to Japan would probably
necessitate preclusive purchases in South America and denial of
applications for licenses to ship from the United States. In view
of the possibility of a Japenese stock pile and the expense involved
in preclusive buying in Argentine, it is doubtful if preclusive
buying is justified.
(e) Carbon Black. Jepan is dependent on the United States
for its importe of cerbon black. Carbon black is used primarily in
the compounding of rubber for use in the menufacture of tires.
Cerbon Black: Jepanese iaports from the United States
1929 and 1937-40. (Vith totals for 1929 and 1937-1938).
Year
United Stetes
Total
1929
4,754,697 pounds
4,860,651 pounds
1937
13,120,830
13,317,516
11
1938
8,369,695
8,412.949
n
1939
10,617,734
11
*Total here is of no use because the total, as shown in
Japenese statistics, is less then the United States
exported to Japan.
Unless Japan has considerable stock piles of carbon black,
of which there is little evidence at present, an embargo on cerbon
black would seriously handicap Japan in the manufacture of tires.
Japanese production of carbon black, cerried on in Formosa
and estimeted to amount to about 2,650,000 pounds annuelly, is reported
to be suiteble only for the manufacture of paints end to be inferior
in quality to the American product which can be used in the manufacture
of tires.
CONFIDTUTIAL

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
18
CONFIDETIAL
Japan
Economic
(f) Creosote Oil. Japan is en exporter rather then an
importer of creosote oil. Her exports are almost exclusively to
the United Stetes which country took 4,799,000 gallons in 1938.
If the United Stetes were to prohibit the importation of creosote
oil from Japan, the effect would be to deprive Jepan of practically
her only merket; it is doubtful whether Japan could find new markets
beceuse European countries have an exportable surplus. By pro-
hibiting the importation of this commodity from Japan, the United
States could further handicap Jepan.
(g) Methanol. Butenol. and Acetone. Methanol, butanol,
end acetone are organic solvents used extensively in the menufecture
of lacquers, synthetic resins, and cellulose plastics; methanol and
acetone are also used in the manufaeture of military explosives.
During the two-year period 1939-40, Jspan imported from
the United Stetes 11,815,565 pounds of methanol. In former yeers,
practically all of Jenan's imports ceme from Germany and the United
States. Up to 1937 the Japanese annuel production did not exceed
6,600,000 pounds.
If the United States were to prohibit the exportation of
methanol to Japan, that country would be seriously handicapped unless
requirements were obtainable from Germany which is doubtful since
Japen obtained less than 1,000 pounds of methanol from Germany in
1938 in contrast to 7,000,000 pounds in 1937.
During the period 1937-40, the United States exported
20,125,000 pounds of butanol, of which 9,097,000 pounds, or 45 per-
cent, were exported to Japan. If the United States should prohibit
the exportation of butanol to Jspan, that country would find it
necessary to divert relatively large quantities of methenol end
acetone to replace butanol used industriclly.
During the period 1937-1939, the United States exported
about 70,000,000 pounds of acetone, of which about 13,750,000 pounds
or 20 percent were exported to Japan end constituted virtually 100
percent of Jspen's imports. Jepan would be seriously hendicapped by
the prohibition of exports of acetone by the United States.
The satisfaction of the requirements of Jepan for these
three comnodities is definitely dependent upon imports.
(h) Selt. In addition to its use as food, selt is used
in the menufacture of ceustic soda, chlorine, bleeching powder and
sode ash; soda ash, in turn, is used for the menufecture of glass
and ceramic produdts and for the production of pharmaceuticals,
soaps, dyes end other chenicels.
During the years 1937-1939, the averege annual consumption
of salt in Japan wes epproximately 2,500,000 short tons. Domestic
production, including Menchoukuo, Kwentung nd other parts of China
emounted to much less than 2,000,000 short tons. Additional supplies
have come mainly from Africa and the Asiatic countries of Turkey,
French Indo-Chine, end the Dutch Indies.
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
19
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
The cessation of imports of selt from africa as a result
of the war brought about instructions in 1940 to rayon and stsple
fiber manufacturers (greet users of caustic soda) to curteil pro-
duction by 30 percent.
Imports by Japan from the United States increased from
0.5 percent of the total salt imports during 1937-1938 to about
2.4 percent in 1939. Thus it cen be seen that the necessity for
salt and the ability to import salt is greet in Japan.
(i) Fertilizers. Chemical fertilizers and their raw
materials are compounds of nitrogen, phosphorus, or potassium. Such
materials may contein one or more of the three essentiel elements in
such e form thet, applied to the soil, they become available to plant
life. The elements are not interchangeable, and their chemical com-
pounds find important application not only in agriculture but in the
arts end industries. Nitrogen compounds, for example, are the besis
of modern militery explosives.
Notwithstending a large production of fertilizers, Japan
is on an import besis with respect to the principal fertilizers,
such as ammonium sulfate, phosphate rock, potash selts end sodium
nitrate.
All of the supply of ammonium sulphate, a nitrogen com-
pound, in the possession of a nation may be used as a fertilizer in
time of peace. Under wer conditions, militery considerations determine
the quantity of ammonium sulnhate available, although the commodity
es such is not used extensively in explosives or other war materials.
Ammonium sulphete is a combinetion of emmonia and sulfuric acid, two
fundamentel materials in modern militery explosives manufecture. It
is the demend for these basic materials that restricts the supply of
enmonium sulphate for the needs of agriculture in wer-time.
For a variety of reasons, Japanese producers have not been
able to attain self-sufficiency in ammonium sulphate. Jepan can
hardly displace foreign sources of supply with increesed domestic
production; if she restricts consumption, a decline in the rice crop
will be the result.
Jepan rormelly consumes anproximately 1,000,000 metric tons
of phosphete rock. Despite intensive efforts to exploit the phosphate
deposits, Jepen hes been able to provide a maximum of only one-third
of its annual requirements. She has obtained from the United States
end countries under British control approximetely 65 percent of her
annual consumption of phosphete rock. The emount roduced in Jepan
will, however, take care of ell her needs except fertilizers. Any
curtailment of the consumption of phosphate rock would be reflected
almost entirely in the reduction of the production of superphosphate,
which in turn would result in a decreese in agricultural production.
A new source of supply of phosphete rock hes been opened up
by Japan's entrance into Tongking in Indo-China.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.94)
20
CONFIDENTIAL
Japen
Economic
Potash is another necessary commodity for which Japan is
dependent upon foreign countries except for en insignificant pro-
duction of her own. As early es September, 1939, producers in the
United States, foreseeing a shortage of potash supplies in the domestic
market, stopped direct sales for export. The willingness of Jepanese
buyers to pey a premium on producers' price, for such supplies as
could be obtained from brokers, dealers and consumers, resulted in
exports to Japen during 1940 of 246,691 long tons.
Jspan's imports of potesh fertilizer salts for the years
1935-1940, with an estimate for 1940 are as follows:
1935
162,000 metric tons
1936
151,000
11
11
1937
251,000
11
11
1938
169,000
11
11
1939
162,000
11
11
1940
75,000
11
11
The chief sources were Spain, Germeny, France, end the
United States.
Sodium nitrates were imported by Jepen during the 10 years
ending 1939 to the extent of 41,000 metric tons per year. Chile and
the United States are the chief sources of supply. Total Jepanese
imports for the years 1937-39 are as follows:
United States
Chile
Others
1937
36,000 metric tons
6,000 metric tons
2,000 metric tons
1938
23,000
4:000
1939
2,000
11
25,000
11
11
0
As cen be seen, Chile has been the chief supplier of sodium
nitrate to Japan since 1937. Sodium nitrates cen be cut off from
Jepen only by depriving her of Chilean imports or by egreement being
established with Chile.
(10) Wood and Wood Products. (e) Wood Pulp and Pulp Wood.
ere used primsrily in the production of paper and rayon for export.
Though Japan's denendence on foreign sources is smell, a curtsilment
of Japenese imports of bleached end sulphite pulp would, in all proba-
bility, not only hamper her export trade but would clso force a curteil-
ment of reyon consumption domesticelly. Wood pulp is also used exten-
sively in the manufacture of synthetic fiber. Csneda and Sweden are
the only two countries whose cooperation would be necessery to carry
out the objective of curtailing Japanese imports.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
21
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Japan's production of wood pulp, it is to be observed,
is falling far short of the levels set in the five-year plan formu-
lated in 1937. According to thet plan, domestic output of paper and
rayon pulp would amount to 1,423,000 1ong tons in 1939; this was to
have been increased to 1,507,000 long tons in 1940. On the basis
of reports from pulp producers, the euthoritative Japan Timber Journal
stated that actual production for 1939 amounted to 1,079,000 tons and
that for 1940 wes less than 1,200,000 long tons. Shortage of electric
power and coal have been severe hendiceps to Japenese wood pulp pro-
ducers. This shortage hes been augumented by scarcity of construction
materiels which has retarded many of the projects for esteblishing new
fectories.
(b) Sitka Spruce is highly important in the manufecture of
eirplanes and ships. The blocking of supplies from Cenada would cur-
tail Jenen's aircraft end shipbuilding industries.
(c) Teakwood is used particularly in the manufacture of the
decks of ships. Since the cooperation of Thailand would be essentiel
in order to restrict imports into Japan, the difficulty of achieving
the objective here would be greater than would be the cese of sitke
spruce.
f. Mining
(1) Mineral Resources. The nineral resources of Japan do
not come anywhere neer meeting the needs of the country. Wartime
conditions have compelled her to expend her efforts both domesticelly
and externelly in order to fulfill partielly basic necessities.
(2) Petroleum. The petroleum sources within the Japanese
Empire ere small and can be seid to contribute not more then l0% of
Jepenese peacetime consumption end 33 of her estimated wartime con-
sumption. The fields within the mpire consist of the main field on
the west coasts of Hokkaido and Honshu. The fields in Taiwan heve
been small in production elthough the southern field, which is owned
by the Navy, hes not produced any oil for some time, as all of the
wells have been seeled for use as a war reserve.
The Northern Sekhalin field, up to 1940, was producing
about 1,000,000 berrels per year for Japan. In 1940 the Russians by
procrestination, haggling over details of the concession, and general
obstructionism prevented Jepan from teking a single barrel of oil out
of the wells. This performance will, in all likelihood, be repeated
in 1941 despite the Russo-Jspanese pact of April 28.
Production of Jepan, Taiwen and Manchoukuo, natural and
synthetic:
1937
3,589,000 barrels (stimated)
1938
3,977,000
11
1
1939
4,318,000
11
11
1940
5,314,000
11
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
22
CONFIDENTIAL
Jepan
Economic
Actuel figures on the consumption of oil in the Empire
ere lscking but the best estimates meke it ebout as follows:
1937
30,274,000 berrels
1938
42,555,000
11
Consumption
1939
37,769,000
1940
33,774,000
1i
C
True figures on imports are equally difficult to procure
es the official secrets act of 1937 put these figures into the
category of secret. Estimated figures follow:
1937
43,890,000
berrels
1938
42,890,000
t
1939
36,740,000
ii
1940
35,560,000
1941 (3 mos.; U.S. only) 4,323,000 barrels.
Comparison of the figures for Imports end home Production
show the tremendous dependence of Japan on importation of petroleum.
Of the oil which Japen uses, 85% to 90% is imported. Of these imports,
75, to 80% come from the western hemisphere, principally from the
United States, 13% to 19% come from the Netherland's East Indies,
British Borneo, and iialaya. To reduce these percentages to figures:
Japan uses about 105,000 barrels of oil daily.
75,000 bbls. come from the western hemisphere,
17,000 bbls. come from the NEI and British Borneo,
3,000 bbls. come from Malaya,
2,000 bbls. come from Iren, etc.,
8,000 bbls. come from Jepen and its denendencies.
Percentage of domestic production of all available petro-
leum produced and imported in any given year:
1937
07.55%
1938
08.48%
1939
10.51%
1940
13.00%
At the present time, Snring 1941, it is estimated thet
Jepen hes between ten end ten-and-a-half million tons of petroleum
in storage. (70 to 75,000,000 berrels). This is practicelly all
crude oil or fuel oil, en amount which should last Jepan for two years
of wer.
The 77 refineries in Japan, Kwantung end Menchoukuo have
a yearly potential production of gasoline of 2,521,000 barrels. At
the letest report, however, the actuel production wes 1,408,170
barrels.
There are three refineries, completed in 1939 and 1940,
which can produce l00 octene gasoline.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
23
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(3) Coel and Coke. (a) Coal. Coal is one of the very
essential commodities of great military end commerciel value and hes
a number of derivitives such as coal-tar, dyes, benzene, picric acid
and T.N.T.
The Jepanese Empire, exclusive of Manchoukuo and North
China, possesses but limited coal resources, elthough 42,495,000
metric tons was produced in 1938. This coal was mined on the three
islands of Kyushu, Honshu and Hokkaido. The coel fields of Kyushu
and Hokkaido are the most extensive and valuable in Japan. The center
of coal production is in Northern Kyushu, which yields about 60 percent
of the total output of Japan. Of the coal fields in Northern Kyushu,
the Chikuko coal field is the largest end yields about 72 percent of the
coal from Kyushu, while the famous Miike coal field ranks next both in
respect to its coel reserves end its output.
There are unlimited coal supplies at the present time (april,
1941) for Japan in the Fushun mine of Manchoukuo. The lack of trans-
portation facilities, however, has curtailed to a considerable extent
the adventages of access to the Fushun mine.
In the long run Japan will probebly have to rely on Manchuria
for its future coal supplies, despite the Government subsidies for
increesed output and for opening new veins in Japan.
North Manchuria fields are to a great extent virgin fields,
and therefore await definite openings. But production of coal, in
Manchuria in 1939, as the result of one mine's record of 10,000 tons
a day, switched attention from South Maichuria to North Menchuria. And
lest year Japanese capital established the Mitsuyama Tanko K.K.
(itsuyama Coal lline Co. Ltd.) with a capital of F 100,O00,O00, to
exploit these North Manchurian fields. The total tonnege of coal
reserves in Manchuria, including these North Manchuria fields, hes been
estimated to run as high es 20,000,000,000 tons.
(b) Coke. Perhaps the most important factor in the
Japanese iron industry is the matter of obtaining adequate supplies
of metallurgical coke for the making of which Japanese reserves of a
suitable type of coal are small. Just what part of all imported coal
is coking quelity is unknown, but it is certainly much the smaller pert.
The imported coking coal comes largely from the Kaiping mines in North
Chine operated by the Kailan Mining Administration, an Anglo-Belgian
interest at present under the control of the British. This Chinese
coal, when mixed with Jepanese coal in a ratio of one to four, produces
a satisfactory metallurgical coke.
The requirements of coal at the Jepsnese iron foundries after
years of steady growth in 1936 reached 3,423,000 metric tons for coking
purposes end 2,560,000 tons for other purposes, the total being
5,983,000 metric tons. While the requirements for the latter purposes
are fully met from domestic sources the supply of coking material must
be sought from external sources to a considerable extent. Native coal
is generally unfit for this purpose beceuse of abundance of ashes and
volatile matter, a serious handicep which the domestic industry hes
always had to fece in the course of its development. However, by an
improved process of dressing and treetment of netive coal by thet of
mixing as described above end by special adeptation of the coking oven,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
24
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
and other technical points, the domestic foundries are now self-
supplying in coke.
The island of Karafuto is rich in coal deposits, although
these have not been fully prospected. The northern or Russian half
of this island contains large quantities of coel and many of the
mines there are being worked by Jepanese interests under concessions.
(c) Production. The total production of coal in Japan is
now in excess of 40,000,000 tons per year, with imports in the neighbor-
hood of 4,000,000 tons and exports less than 1,000,000 tons. Imports
have exceeded exports since 1927 in which year the imports were approxi-
mately 2,661,000 tons end exports 2,173,000 tons.
The mining of coal in Karafuto has steadily increased from
415 tons in 1912 to 251,000 tons in 1925 to 2,536,000 tons in 1937.
(4) Iron and Steel. World Production. Of the 162,000,000
tons of steel produced in 1938, the United States supplied only 18 per-
cent (about 29,000,000 tons) whereas the United States had supplied
about 35 percent (about 73,250,000 tons) of the 211,000,000 tons pro-
duced in 1937. Of the total amount produced in 1936, the United States
produced 49,572,000 tons; France, 33,300,000 tons; Germany, 7,340,000
tons; Great Britain, 12,900,000 tons; Sweden, 11,250,000 tons; India,
2,570,000 tons while Japan (including Chosen) produced less than
1,000,000 tons.
Iron Ores. The iron ore deposits in Japan proper and Korea
are estimeted at approximately 80 million and 10 million metric tons
respectively, the aggregate total being about 90 million metric tons.
Of these deposits, however, those at present in operation on a commer-
cial basis are less than a dozen in Japan and some half a dozen in
Korea. The output from these sources was reported in 1936 to have
grown to approximately 1,250,000 metric tons, although this was only
one-third of the requirements which reached aproximately 5,078,000
tons for the year in question.
It is also important to note that in addition to the above
deposits there are in Japan resources of iron sand, computed to be in
thousands of millions of tons, and in Korea extensive deposits of low
grade ore. The internal sources of iron sand on which the swordsmiths
and iron manufacture of the country depended in old times are at
present availed of only in a few special lines and more recently by a
special enterprise operated by a patented process which has not as yet
been fully tested. The low grade ores in Korea are magnesite, the
estimated deposits being between 4 and 5 million metric tons of about
50% grade and some 100 million tons above 40% grade, and 300 million
tons above 30% grade. The desulphurized pyrite at the chemical fer-
tilizer plants, amounting to upward of 1, 751,000 metric tons in 1936
alone is also receiving an increasing amount of attention as a poten-
tial source of raw material for iron mills.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
25
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Scrap Iron. A heavy consumption of scrap iron is charac-
teristic of iron and steel manufacture in Jepan. This is explained
by the preponderance of open hearth furneces for which scrap is used
in high percentages beceuse of economic reasons. The use of scrap
which declined to a considerable extent in the years 1929-31 agein
began to increase in 1932 until en impressive total of 3,337,000
metric tons was recorded for the year 1936, a two-fold increase in a
period of 7 years. This trend hss been oonsiderably accelerated
under the stimulus of the present expensionist policy followed by the
heavy industries.
O1 an average the use of screp in all foundries is to the
extent of 58s as ageinst 42, of pig.
With regard to the supply of scrap, however, no accurate
figures are aveilable. The total amount taken for 1934 was estimated
at 2,500,000 tons, of which something like 500,000 tons were supplied
from internal sources end about es many tons of steel scrap were
produced at the domestic steel mills, while 140,000 tons were imported.
Of the above quantity approximately 150,000 tons were directly used
as raw material at rolling mills for the manufecture of small size
steel products.
The external sources of scrap supply are distributed almost
all over the world, the most important being the United States of
America, British India, the etherlands ast Indies, Australia, China,
lMenchoukuo, the first named country in 1936 accounting for nearly 68%
of the total imports. It is estimated that imported scrap in 1936
exceeded 60% of the total consumption in the country, although there
are in evidence trends to increase the domestic production of pig iron
for the steel mills.
Of late there has been a tendency to replace scrap with ore
in the manufacture of pig iron. Vhereas scren cost about ¥ 80 per
metric ton in 1939, ore can be purchased at about ¥ 20. As less than
two tons of ore are necessery to produce e ton of steel, price primarily
caused the shift from scrap to ore. This change is being impeded some-
what by the lack of an adequate supply of good ore and by the greater
supplies of coel which are required. In addition, the Jepan Iron and
Steel ienufacturing Company is about the only organization able to make
this radicel change to an ore policy, as the majority of other companies
rely on open-hearth furnaces, which must use scrap iron. But the
tendency has been started, and it is one the industry is likely to
continue in the future as the supplies of richer ores are tapped in
Chine and ignchuria.
External Supply. Of the external sources of raw material
which sunply two-thirds of the country's needs the Tayeh mine in China
is the oldest, the contrect being concluded in 1899. The scope of
external supply hes since been extended accompanying the growth of
demand in the country, especially important being the resources in Johorc
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
26
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
in Melaya which beceme accessible in 1920. To the list of these
supply sources Trengganu also in the Malayan peninsula and some
mines in the South Seas have been added more recently.
The dependence of the steel industry on foreign supplies
to the extent indicated, is admittedly a weakness in the whole
structure of the iron and steel industry in Jspan. The difficulties
of transportation, the scarcity of labor in exploiting the supply
sources abroad and shutting off some of those sources by the war are
making a difficult problem much more serious. If Jepan is able to
improve her position in regard to iron and steel, it will be due to
the fact that she has been able to develop to their full capacity
the mining end metallurgicel resources of Manchoukuo. Even by this
measure, Japan could hardly expect to reduce her imports of iron ore
much below 50 percent.
Iron and Steel Industry. Operating conditions were anything
but fevorable in the Japanese iron and steel industry during 1940, and
the volume of production was undoubtedly below the level of the previous
yeer. Fectors responsible for the reduced output included acute power
end fuel shortages during the first quarter of l940, and to a lesser
degree, during the closing months of the year; a sharp decline in the
volume of screp iron imports during the greater part of the year as a
result of the scarcity of foreign exchange, end the virtual cessation
of imports after the introduction of the licensing system by the United
States on October 15; the poorer quality of scrap eveilable; and re-
duced arrivels of pig iron and iron ore from ritish Indie and British
Melaya as a result of a dearth of shipping facilities snd export res-
trictions.
Produders of iron and steel endeavored to obtain Government
permission to reise prices to more remunerative levels in order to
compensate for the higher production costs end declining profit rates,
but such action was strenuously onposed by the military authorities.
After becoming e netionel politicel issue, a compromise wes finelly
reeched when the Government agreed to compensate the members of the
industry for the higher costs of imported raw materials by the granting
of official subsidies. These were distributed through the Japan Iron
and Steel Raw Materials Controlling ompeny which was established in
July, 1940, under the authority of the Hational Peneral Mobilization
Act.
By far the greatest problem facing the industry at the end
of the year was that of finding a solution to the problem creeted by
the licensing of scrap iron shipments from the United States. Despite
the optimistic comments of leaders of the industry and various
officials, the shortage of scrap iron is expected to curteil dras-
tically steel mill operations during the coming year. The Government
ordered a reduction in the quantity of scran iron for consumption in
flet furnaces from 47% to 4z), εnd all produation quotas for steel
ingots and semi-furnished goods were reduced by 5, during the last
quarter in order to conserve existing stocks. Since the supply of
CONFIDETIAL

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
27
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economio
domestio sorap is less than one-fourth of the volume required for the
flat furnao alone, which produce about one-third of the nation's
steel output, various efforts were being made at the end of the year
to operate on reduced scrap rations. These efforts included the
utilization of the low grade domestic ores and iron sand, the develop-
ment of furnaces designed to produce steel direct from pig iron, the
use of smaller quantities of scrap in flat furnace operations, and the
exploitation of the iron resouroes of North China.
Conclusions. Loss of foreign supplies of ferrous
materials vould ourtail production of steel in Japan, but would not
completely stop its produotion.
Faotors of importance in expanding the steel industry
are:
(1) An acute coal shortage, as expained under
coal, because of transportation and labor diffi-
culties.
(2) Dependence on foreign supplies of raw
materials.
(3) Difficulties of providing transportation
facilities, and
(4) Scarcity of labor.
In 1938, the last year for which fairly accurate figures
can be compiled, Japan obtained about 6,000,000 metric tons of
ferrous materials. About 22 percent of this represented ore produced
in the Japanese Empiro, 30 percent vas ore imported almost exclusively
from the Philippine Islands and British Ialaya, 33 percent was scrap
steel imported chiefly from the United States, and 13 percent was pig
iron imported from India, chiefly, and the United States. The other
two percent represents semi-finished products imported mainly from the
United States. How long Japan can continue full scale production
without scrap iron from the United States remains to be seen.
Exports of iron ore from British IIalaya and the Philippine
Islands to Japan have continued; those from the Philippine Islands
to Japan have increased (April, 1941).
The reserve or hold-over supply of ferrous materials in
Japan is estimated to be about 6,500,000 tons; in other vords,
sufficient to enable her to continue producing steel for eleven
months, exolusive of ferrous materials she is continuing to import.
Therefore, elimination of the imports from the Philippine
Islands and British Malaya would be the most effective additional
measure which could be taken for reducing Japan's production of
steel.
(5) Aluminum. The commercial production of aluminum in
Japan dates back only seven years to 1934 when 66l! metric tons were
produoed, since 1934, every succeeding year has brought a notable pro-
duotion increase. 0utput rose to 4,4:34 tons in 1935, to 7.000 in 1936,
to 10,000 in 1937 and to an estimated 20.000 in 1938. A1though the
estimate for 1938 seems large, the produotion for each of the years 1939
and 1940 was probably greater than 20,000 tons.
CONT IDEIT IAL

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
28
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Although the increase in production has been noteworthy,
there has been an equally noteworthy increase in domestic consumption.
In 1935 consumption was estimated to be around 11,000 tons. In 1937
it was 20,000 tons end the consumption for 1939 is estimated to have
been over 38,000 tons. In other words, in spite of its rapid growth,
the domestic industry has been eble to supply only about helf of the
effective demend, he country being dependent upon foreign sources
of supply for the other half.
In order to reduce the amount necessary to be imported
from foreign countries, an ambitious program of expansion was sanc-
tioned by the government in 1939. This program, however, along with
other recent projects, has been held up beceuse of Japan's major
military and economic effort on the continent.
As hes been said, Japan has no bauxite and experiments
using aluminum bearing cleys from Chosen and Manchoukuo have not
proved to be as veluable as they were originally expected to be just
after the industrial invasion of Manchuria in 1932. Accordingly the
whole Jananese aluminum industry depends on imported raw material for
its very existence.
Since Japan has no reserves of bauxite, it imports most
of its aluminum grade ores from the Dutch East Indies, British India,
Johore, Greece, and Hainan Islands. Although it is reported to be
exploiting deposits in Manchoukuo, Koree and North Chine, the 1939
report of the Bureau of lines lists no imports of bauxite from any
of these sources.
In 1938, the consumption of aluminum in Jepen was 38,000
metric tons or nearly four times that which was consumed in 1933.
The reason for the extraordinary increase in consumption is because
of a variety of fccts. Only a short time ago the country embarked
upon an ambitious industrial expansion program designed to expand
markedly the productive capacity of key industries both in Japan
proper and in Manchoukuo. At the same time it is pushing vigorously
aheed with its great armament program. Since there is a shortage of
metals, especially steel and copper, aluminum is in great demand as
a substitute metal. The biggest single demand for aluminum today
comes from the war industries, especially the airplene factories and
those concerns turning out water-bottles and mess kits for the troops.
But the "peace" industries, too, are steadily expanding their con-
sumption. Numerous hydro-electric power sites heve been developed
during the last few years end others are planned for the near future.
It is estimated that perheps 90s of the high voltage transmission
lines erected in connection with these power development schemes
use aluminum cables. Those most recently instelled use aluminum
cables with steel cores for greater strength. Aluminum pots, pens,
kettles, and similer domestic utensils are steedily gaining in popular
favor and are replacing the iron articles formerly in vogue. Other
important consumers of aluminum are Japan's newly developed industries
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
29
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
such as redio and automotive products.
(6) Fluorspar end Bauxite. Large scale production of
aluminum is totally dependent upon access to bauxite and fluorspar.
Fluorspar is used in lead smelting and in the making of ferro-sili-
con and ferro-menganese. It is elso used, along with soda and
alumna in making cryolite synthetically, Cryolite, in turn is used
in making aluminum. Fluorspar is also used in the steel, opalescent
glass, enamel and chemical industries.
The importance of fluorspar to Japen hes been indicated by
her anxiety to obtein the material over the period of the last two
years. The supply from Chosen spparently has not been sufficient to
meet the demend. In comparison with the proportion of fluorspar
used in the manufecture of steel in the United States, Japan's pro-
duction of steel (about 5) million tons) would require nearly 15,000
tons of fluorspar as a flux which is considerably more than the pro-
duction reported for Chosen. Fluorsper deposits have recently been
discovered in Manchuria, but the production will probably not exceed
3,000 tons per year. The first exports of fluorspar, sbout 540 tons,
from the United States to Japan were sent out in 1939. Another fact
of interest is that during 1939 end 1940 over 90 percent of the
fluorspar production of the Union of South Africa wes sent to Japan.
It epnears thet the Union of South Africa is at present the chief
source of Japan's foreign supply.
Next in importance is the supply from Mexico, which is
being negotiated through the Compania Internacional de Comercio,S.A.,
a Jepanese company. This organization effected a contract for the
purchase of 12,O00 tons of fluorspar from Sr. Federico Deschamps,
the owner of the fluorspar deposit. This deposit is probebly the
largest, not only in Mexico, but in the Western Hemisphere. It is
situated near the highway close to Taxco in the stete of Guerrero.
After the contract with Deschamps hsd been completed, the
Japenese company requested him to enter into a new contract. This
Deschamps refused to do because of previously made errangements to
sell his product to American companies. Then the Compania Inter-
nacional de Comercio placed an embargo on the mine forcing the owner
to put up an exorbitant emount of money as a bond. While the suit
is in the process of litigation, the Japanese cen exploit the mine
on the basis of the previous contract. As a result, even if the
Japanese lose the lawsuit, they will have achieved their objective
of obtaining the mineral now.
This Mexican fluorspar is considered to be of excellent
quality and cen be produced in great quantities. Beceuse of the pro-
duction of the low grade and the low price of fluorspar in the
United States, Mexican producers have been able to find only a limited
market for their product in the United Stetes.
(7) Copper. Copper is the most important mineral product
in Japan next to coal. In spite of increasing production, Japan has
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
30
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
been importing about one-half of her copper requirements. During
the World Wer she was an exporter of copper, her exports in 1916
amounting to 62,600 metric tons as contrasted to a production in
that yeer of 113,300 metric tons. After the slump in 1921 when
output was down to 55,000 metric tons a gredual recovery hes been
noticed. In 1936 copper output amounted to 78,000 metric tons,
but in that same year imports were up to 53,300 metric tons. This
increasing demand in copper is escribed pertly to the activity in
the munitions industry and partly to the expansion in exports of
copper products, including copper wire. The amount of export of
such copper products is estimeted at epproximately 20,000 metric
tons in 1936.
The domestic uses of copper mey be proportioned as follows:
copper wire 61%; munitions, 7; others 32%.
(8) Nickel. Mickel is largely used in the manufecture
of steel alloys, as a cetelyzer in the plating industry, and in
coinage. In the manufacture of certein grades of steel it is indis-
pensable. Nickel-steel, which contains from 3 to 3.5 percent of
nickel, and ebout .25 percent of carbon, is much tougher and stronger
then ordinary steel, and extremely ductile. The combination of these
properties causes nickel-steel to be regarded as the best meterial
for armor plates. Nickel is strongly anticorrosive and has qualities
of increasing the toughness, durability end tensile strength of alloys.
It is malleable and can be easily controlled metallurgically.
It cen be seen, therefore, that nickel has not only attained
front rank as en essential metal of modern industry, giving it an
enormous secondery munitions velue, but that its importence in the
manufacture of heevy guns, armor plate, casings for rifle and mechine
gun bullets, and for rotating end driving band in shells, makes it
indispensable from the point of view of primary munitions needs as
well.
Japanese supplies. In spite of the experiments tried
in recent years by the Showe Mining Company (Showa Kogyo Krisha) in
producing metellic uickel, Japen is almost l00 percent dependent
upon imports for her supply. The Showa company is producing ferro-
nickel in a pilot plent from nickel ore mined in Oye-yama. It is
proposed to edopt the Krupp process for meking ferro-nickel; the
originel intention of producing metellic nickel hes been abandoned
temporarily owing to lack of technicsl knowledge.
Jepan is sadly lacking in nickel; the resultant effect
on the menufacture of certsin types of steel has already been pointed
out. At one time Jepan negotiated with a French concern for the
establishment of a nickel refinery in Jepan for handling New Caledonia
ore, but this plan fell through; consequently, Jepen has hed to
import all of her supnlies of this metal.
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
31
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(9) Graphite. Graphite (or plumbago) is very largely
employed in making crucibles, type metel, paints, betteries,
electrodes end leed pencils.
Both Japen and the United Stetes are dependent upon
liadagascer for supplies of flake graphite, and upon Ceylon for
crystelline crucible lump and chip graphite, the only two types
that ere of critical significance in a war or defense effort.
Until the United States Department of State brought
the matter to the attention of the British Government, Ceylon sup-
plied Japan with large quantities of crystelline lump suitsble for
meking graphite crucibles, retorts end stoppers (the only truly
strategic articles that require crystelline lump or chip graphite).
This trade was stopped early in 1941.
Negotietions are under way at the present time for the
United States to obtain important quantities of graphite from
Madagascer. The graphite is concentrated at the one port of Tamatave
and ce mot easily be transferred to any other port on the island.
If the United Stetes is successful in purchasing preclusively the
supply fron Madagescar and Ceylon, our needs could be supplied until
the end of 1942 and the crucible supplies of Japan be curtailed to
such an extent as to handicep the efficiency of tneir foundry casting
operetions.
(10) Other Hetellic Raw Materials. (a) Zinc. At least
40% of Jepen's supply of zinc is imported from areas outside of her
control, though domestic production is increasing. The United States
would need the cooperation of Mexico, Australie and Canada in order
to handicap the importing of this material by Japan.
(b) Lead. Over 80% of Japan's consumption of lead is
imported. To deprive Jepen of this comnodity would affect not only
the munitions industry, but also gasoline refining, and would force
Jepen to meke uneconomic attempts to exploit low grede Manchurian
deposits of the metal. The cooperation of Peru, Mexico, Indie end
Canade would be necessary.
(c) Tin. More then two-thirds of Japan's supplies of tin
come from countries outside of the Yen Bloc, even though domestic
output hrs increased repidly. The United States, Bolivia, the
Netherlands'East Indies and llalaya would have to cooperate to deprive
the Jepanese of immorts of tin.
(a) lManganese. Lack of manganese from foreign sources
would reduce Japen's steel production by at least 50 percent though
her stockpile reserve would make such action effective only after
en estimeted two year period. The Philippines, Chile, India,
ilaye, Russie, Chine, Brazil nd Cuba all produce manganese.
(e) Quartz Crystals nd Mica. Both of these materials
are highly strategic in the manufacture of radios nd radio parts,
sperk plugs, etc. Imports by Japan could be prevented through
cooperation with Brazil end Argentine. Re-exports to Japan could be
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
32
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
prevented by cooperation with the United Kingdom and Canada.
(f) Tungsten. Because of domestic supplies and supplies
from China, Japan is self-sufficient in supplies of tungsten.
(g) Molybdenum. Since the United States produces 90%
of the world's total (of 1939), the United States is in a position
to affect greatly supplies of molybdenum which go to Japan. Japan
imports almost 100 of her supplies.
(h) Chromium. Although Janan is approximately 87% self-
sufficient in chrome ore, she has begun to import increasing amounts
from New Celedonia. If curtailment of other raw meteriels compel
her to use up her supply of chrome, the supply from New Caledonia
would help more than it does at the present time.
g. Manufacturing.
(1) Extent of development. In spite of the fact that
Japan hes access domestically to a very smell percentege of her needs
in rew meterials, she hes made remerkable progress in building up an
extensive manufacturing industry based on Government support and
protection end eimed at economic penetration of world merkets as well
as independence of foreign manufactures.
The manufacturing industry is the lergest enterprise in
Japan from the strndpoint of value of production. In 1937 this
industry accounted for production of * 16,412,000,000, representing
78% of the velue of output from all industries. The rate of expension
of the manufacturing enterprises has been cheracterized by remarkable
rapidity, the velue of production having increased by over 2.5 times
between 1927 and 1937. No less remarkable has been the gain in the
relative importance of the manufacturing enterprises among all in-
dustries in production velue, the share of the former having soared
from 59% to 785 in the corresponding years.
The next largest industry in this respect is egriculture,
but the velue of output is roughly one-third that of the manufacturing
business, while in point of number of workers it employs three times
as meny hends as the manufacturing industry.
In point of relative importance of the enterprises embraced
within the menufacturing industry the textile enterprise comes first
in the value of production. The returns of the Depertment of Commerce
and Industry for 1937 show that the textile industry accounted for
23.83 of total production of all menufacturing pursuits, followed by
the metal industry with 20.5%, the chemical industry with 18.6% and
the machine and tool industry with 14.5%
The relative position of the enterprises within the manu-
facturing industry discloses some significant chenges. The textile
enterprise, for instance, slipped from 41.4% to 23.8% in its share
of total output of the manufacturing industry between 1926 and 1937,
while the metel industry jumped from 6.4% to 20.5% in the same period.
The absolute production figures for the manufacturing industry
increased considerably. In 1926 it stood at 6,936 million yen. In
1937 it was up to 16,412 mi1lion yen.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
33
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
When the Sino-Japanese conflict began in July, 1937,
Japanese industry had not reached a stage at which it could easily
meet the enormous demand for war materials required by the emergency.
The development of heavy industries was still insufficient, end a
rapid change in the structure of Jepanese industry was required in
order to secure an adequate supply of war materiels and to provide
a basis for general productive expansion. As foreign assistance
could not be relied on, the restriction of imports became inperative
in order to belence international peyment. Japanese industry, there-
fore, had to undertake the hard task by itself. The enforced change
required strong Government control in every field of the Japanese
economy.
Government control became stricter after June, 1938,
perallel with expansion of the war front. The Temporary Fund Adjust-
ment Act was promulgated, whilst control of commodities, foreign trade,
foreign exchenge was tightened by the promulgation of the Temporary
Export end Import Control Act. As & consequence of the General Mobil-
ization Law, labor and engineers and experts were subjected to Govern-
ment control. These measures checked the flow of capitel, materials,
end labor into non-essentiel industries, whilst positive policies
encoureging the repid expension of the productive cepecity of vital
industries were also adopted, such es the Automobile Manufacturing
Industry Act, the Iron and Steel Industry Act, the Petroleum Resources
Exploitation Act, the iineral Production Lew, the Japan Gold Production
Compeny Lew, the Machine Tool Industries Law, and the Aeroplane Manu-
facturing Industries Law.
These measures, both negative and positive, brought about
a structural chenge in Japenese industry, with resultant great ectivity
in wartime industries, and a retrogression in peacetime industries.
Throughout 1939 efforts were exerted to resuscitete the peecetime
industries end in bringing ebout a better balance with the munitions
enterprises with a view to stimulating Jepanese exports.
Among the industries most adversely affected by the Sino-
Japanese hostilities were the textile enterprises. Teking the yeers
1931, 1932 and 1933 as 100, the production index for cotton yarn
wes down to 68.3 in March, 1939. The high point in cotton yarn pro-
duction was recorded in 1937 when the index was up to 140.4.
(2) Electricity end Electric Power Stations. Accurate in-
formation of recent origin on electricity and electric power plants in
Japan is unobtainable. In the latter half of 1939 and the early months
of l940, Japan greetly suffered from a shortage of electric power
caused by insufficient supply of coal for thermal generation and the
scarcity of reinfall for hydro-electricity. Under normal conditions,
the capecity of the hydro power generation plants and the rivers on
which they are located are shown in the following table:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
34
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Capacity of Hydro Power Generation Plants
Classified by Principal Rivers
(Unit:
In Kilowatt)
No. of
Maximum
Usual
Districts
Rivers Stations
capacity
capacity
(Tone
72
292,515
159,214
(Sagami
22
79,274
63,940
Kwanto..
(Sakao
11
45.900
26,199
(Fuji
51
93,512
56,906
(0-i
6
127,830
41,576
(Tenryu
35
107,873
48,823
Chubu.
(Yahagi
31
73,435
33,721
(Kiso
79
370,328
149,955
(Kumano
10
11,633
4,875
Kinki.
(Hidaka
6
11,600
6,165
(Yodo
37
105,867
69,441
(Agano
36
356,145
131,155
(Shinano
90
332,001
157,703
Shin-etsu....
(Seki
15
68,558
38,934
(Hime
9
53,949
25,999
(Kitakami
24
26,162
17,496
(Abukuma
33
29,893
20,732
Tohoku.
(Hoshiro
14
15,411
10,928
(iiogami
20
32,209
16,085
(Yoshino
18
53,233
21,760
Shikoku.
(Niyodo
11
27,375
15,278
(Gokase
12
35,505
14,475
(Oyodo
9
49,962
25,792
Kyushu..
(Sennai
7
30,350
18,350
(Tama
12
20,653
8,997
(Chikugo
17
65,874
30,361
(Akan
4
15,620
11,380
Hokkaido.
(Shiribetsu
5
15,285
7,595
(Ishikari
21
85,949
42.890
Total incl.
others
1,010
3,635,698
1,785,891
Note:
The above table was compiled according to an
investigation made in December 1936.
Volume of Power Generated Classified
(Unit:
1,000 k.w.h.)
Year
Hydro
Thermal Internal Combustion
Total
1914
1,257,949
180,695
18,626
1,457,271
1926
8,083,797
996,010
11,404
9,091,210
1930
10,778,301
1,366,385
15,397
12,160,083
1934
15,800,173
2,973,466
19,971
18,793,610
1935
18,215,777
3,315,813
17,110
21,548,700
1936
19,024,389
3,904,282
28,530
22,957,202
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
35
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
On February 7, 1938, the Government revealed the most
important parts of a power control bill under which a new semi-
governmental electric company, called the ippon Hasso Den Kabushiki
Kaisha (Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission Company)
wes to have been organized. Thirty-three companies were to be com-
bined, with a totel capitalization of ¥ 880,O00,O00. The twelve
companies, each with a valuation of more than : 10,000,000 were as
follows:
Tokyo Electric Light Co.
¥136,700,000
Daido Electric Power
102,300,000
Nippon Electric
100,600,000
Kwansei Kyodo Electric
57,800,000
Toho Electric Power
40,600,000
Ujigawe Electric Power
35,800,000
Sanyo Central Electric
18,000,000
Kyushu Electric
17,000,000
Hiroshima Electric Power
16,500,000
Showa Electric Power
15,800,000
Yamaguchi Prefecture Electric
15,600,000
Chugoku Godo Electric
12,600,000
During the winter of 1940-4l the government had established
restrictions on the consumption of electrical power. Owing to the
abundent rainfall during February and March, 1940, however, the last
of these restrictions were removed for industrial purposes on March 4.
Electricity for illumination, however, was to continue to be curtailed
indefinitely.
(3) Important Lines of Manufacture. The discussion of
manufacture in the various industries such as steel, textile, chemicals,
etc., have been discussed previously in connection with the raw materials
concerned. The following discussion concerns phases of the subject
of manufacturing which were not discussed earlier.
(a) Machinery. In spite of the expenditure of great
effort to become self-sufficient in the manufacture of industrial
equipment, Japan has not been able to become an important machinery-
producing nation. Japanese nachinery production is not ten percent
of thet produced by the United States.
In 1938, Japan imported slightly more than $66,000,000
worth of industrial machinery. Of this amount, more than half
($35,333,000) was imported from the United Stetes. Japan's imports
in 1939 amounted to $64,250,000.
The best that Japan could claim in the field of machinery
is that she is 80% self-sufficient. She is dependent to a great de-
gree on imports of certain high grade types which fact makes her
extremely vulnerable to embargo. Japan particularly needs ball bear-
ings, steam turbines, mining and smelting machinery, oil well and
reiining machinery, machine tools end electrical apparatus. The
cooperation of the United Kingdom and Canada would be necessary to
deprive Japan of these necessary imports.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
36
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(b)
Railway Equipment. (See Transportation)
(c)
Motor and Other Road Transportation. (See Transportation)
(a)
Airplanes. (See Transportation)
(e)
Military Equipment.
In the Japanese Empire there are at least 10 plants
which produce arms and ammunition for the two services. These
factories are presumed to have been expanded in recent years until
they cen produce initial arms and equipment for a full-dress war
effort. There is reason to believe that the cepacity of the plants
is still not sufficient to keep abreast of orders during e. long
emergency. The chief drag on this production is the supply of raw
materials for these munitions.
(f) Explosives. Since July 1937, no accurate information
on explosives production has been available. There were, prior to
this date, 11 government and private plants mrnufacturing explosives
of a military neture. It cen be estimeted that the present production
cannot be much short of 85,000 tons yearly. This production depends
on Japan's imports of cotton and nitrates. Chemical warfare agents
cen be produced in sufficient quantities by Japanese industry.
(g) Shinbuilding. At the end of September, 1940, there
were 4204 ships over 20 tons registered in Japan. Of these 1202 were
of 1000 tons or more. In January 1941, there were 881 ships of more
than 2000 tons. In 1937 there were 1,257 yards for building ships of
20 tons and more.
The China Incident has ceused great demands on the available
tonnage, so much so, in fact, that at the present time there is an
acute shortage of shins for the long hauls from the Indies end the
Americas.
The Naval building program has cut down the aveilable
building slips and iron end steel which might be used for commercial
ship building. During 1940 it was reported that the percentege of
ships under repair was unusually high, undoubtedly caused by the
strain on individual ships due to constant operation over several
years without the usual time out between trips for minor repairs.
3. Commerce.
a. Domestic Trade.
(1) The rail and water communications of Jepan have been
so overworked during the last few years, that the movement of cormod-
ities end menufectures within the Empire heve been greatly curtailed,
so much so that shortages of all sorts have appeared in the large
cities. Replacement of worn out cars and vessels heve not kept up
with the increased demand and in consequence the distribution system
of goods end services in the mpire has been unable to carry the
required load.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
37
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(2) Exports from Taiwan (Formosa) to Japan and foreign
countries toteled 7,500,000 yen in 1925; in 1930, exports to Japan
toteled ￥ 218,633,000 and to other countries ¥ 22,808,000; in 1935,
exports to Jepan totaled : 314,200,000 and to other countries
* 36,544,000. It can be reedily seen that the trede of Taiwan with
Japan has steadily develoned, while the development of its trade with
foreign countries has been much slower. The value of the total trade,
which was approximately ¥ 4,800,000 in 1897, attained the three hundred
million yen level in 1921, the four hundred million level in 1934, and
further rose to ¥ 688,000,000 in 1937 and to ¥ 748,000,000 in 1938.
The export trede has developed with the expansion of the output of
suger end rice, which constitute two major products of the island.
The export trade has been developed by an increase in the
output of such commodities as bananas, headwear, timber, ores, copper,
tinned pineepples, alcohols, camphor oil, raw fish and salt.
The import trade has been developed by an expansion of the
output of cotton tissues, iron, fertilizer, timber, aquatic products,
paper, tobacco, spirits, rice, wheεt flour, vehicles, machinery,
metches, cement, gunny bags, woolens, and materiels for hat making.
b. Foreign Trade (Exvorts) 1914-1937. For many years raw silk
has been the chief article of Jepanese trade. The first World War
increased the variety of items exported end trebled the volume of export
trade. Foreign trade did not suffer from the post-war depression until
1930 and 1931, when a severe recession cut the value of the export
trede in helf. In 1932 the Japanese depreciated the value of the yen
and, in the fece of world-wide depression, they increased their export
trade by invading markets previously held by Greet Britain and other
Western powers.
1937-1939. Following the Japanese invasion of China, Japanese
goods were boycotted in many parts of the world. Tariff berriers,
already high, were generally raised. The strain of war caused short-
ages of labor and materials and resulted in higher production costs.
Japanese export trede is deuendent on en emple supply of cheep imported
rew materials which are no longer forthcoming. Government regulations
to conserve the foreign exchenge have robbed business of its flexibility.
The deprecieted yen is no longer an advantage.
1939-1940. The present European War hes proved a mixed blessing.
It hes reised the cost of imported raw materials or has entirely pre-
vented their importation. An advantageous barter agreement with
Germany (Manchurian soy beens for German machinery) promised great
profits, but since the ship-borne trade with Germany was suspended,
only a fraction of the profit was realized. New orders have come to
Jepan from South and Central America, and from other former German
merkets, but the reduced stocks of goods in Japan have handicapped
exporters.
In spite of these difficulties, the velue of Japanese export
trade struck an all time high during 1939 end though only Empire figures
have been reported for 1940 the same high figures seem to have been
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
38
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
maintained. Part of this was due to a spectacular rise in the price
of silk from ¥ 820 a bale to ¥ 1,900 a bale. More than 80% of this
silk goes to the United States and forms the most profitable article
of Japanese trade.
The actual value of the export trade with the "Yen-bloc
countries", Manchoukuo and Occupied China is doubtful. During 1939,
Japan sent almost half of her exports to the bloc, epproximately
¥ 1,747 million worth of goods end bought from the yen-bloc approxi-
mately ¥ 683 million worth of goods. A great part of Japanese ex-
ports are entered into Chine without payment of customs; and a great
part of the imports from Chine are paid for in army scrip end other
doubtful currency.
Chief Articles of Export:
:Value:(1000 yen)
PRINCIPAL
1940
1939
1938
1937
DESTINATION
:(6 mos.):
Raw Silk
:194,854 : 506,845 : 364,124 : 407,118 : 86 g0es to USA.
Foodstuffs
: 431,989 : 300,214 : 248,084 : Eastern Asia.
Cotton Cloth
:200,954 : 403,946 : 404,240 : 573,065 : Wor1d-wide.
Machinery
:122,183 : 209,206 : 156,475 : 109,881 : Manchoukuo,China
Other Textiles:111,780 : 180,737 : 357,029 : 400,679 : World-wide.
Destination of Exports:
: Destination of Exports
VALUE (in millions of Yen)
DESTINATION
:1931:
:1936:
8 :1937: 8
:1938:6
:1939: %
Asia
: 505: 44.0:1371: 50.9:1646: 51.8:1665: 61.9:2320: 64.9
Eurone
: 104: 9.0: 308: 11.5: 356: 11.2: 261: 9.8: 238: 6.7
North America : 442: 38.6: 609: 22.6: 660: 20.8: 440: 16.4: 659: 18.5
Central America ---:
: 41:
: 1.5: 55: 1.7: 29: 1.0: 44: 1.2
South America : 10: 1.0: 69: 2.6: 110: 3.5: 60: 2.3: 67: 1.9
Africa
59: 5.1: 198: 7.3: 243: 7.6: 137: 5.1: 153: 4.2
Oceania
: 27: 2.3: 98: 3.6: 106: 3.4: 97: 3.5: 95: 2.6
Total
:1147:100.0:2693:100.0:3175:100.0:3576:100.0:3972:100.0
.●
c. Foreign Trade (Imports) 1914-1937. The volume of Japanese
imports has been largely dependent on the volume of exports. The
prosperity brought about by Japanese exports during the first World
War was followed by a wave of spending, chiefly for consumers' goods
and raw materials to supply her factories. High tariffs were imposed
on all foreign goods that might be regerded as luxuries.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
39
CONFIDENTIAL
Jepan
Economic
No expense was spared to secure the latest foreign machinery,
inventions, end commodities that could be copied end manufactured in
Japan et a fraction of the cost abroad. The military forces have
always endeavored to accumulate large supplies of strategic materials
and great stocks of munitions. Private industry, under Government
pressure, copied the ermy and navy in this policy and laid in great
stocks of cotton, wool, metels, oil, etc.
1937-1940. Since the outbreak of the Chinese war stringent
regulations have been set up to prevent the importation of any but the
most essential commodities. Cotton, for instence, cannot be imported
unless en equal amount is exported as cotton goods. This "link system"
has made the trensaction of business difficult for Japanese business-
men.
The present import trade consists principally of (1) raw materials
which can be manufactured into erticles for export; (2) strategic
materials such as oil, steel scrap, copper, nitrates, and aeroplene
perts; (3) machinery which will enable Japan to be self-sufficient.
A nation as poor as Japan can never hope for complete "autarchy"
or self-sufficiency. The abrogation of the Trade Pact of 19ll by the
United States hes nevertheless redoubled Japan's determination to be
dependent on no one country for her supplies. Even at a financial
loss, she has begun to divert part of her purchases of petroleun to
Iren, iexico, end the Netherlends Eest Indies. Similarly, she is
changing the source of her cotton supplies. She bought the bulk of her
cotton from India, until the imports of Japanese cotton fabrics were
restricted by India; then she gave the trade to America. Now she is
seeking cotton from Brazil, Africa, end Chine.
FIGURES FOR JAPANESE IMPORT TRADE (Japan Proper)
(In millions of Yen)
1910
464
1915
532
1920
2336
1925
2573
1930
1546
1931
1236
1935
2472
1936
2764
1937
3783
1938
2663
1939
2918
1939 (9 mo.) 2161
1940 (9 mo.) 2492
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 307 === (confidence 1.00)
40
CONFIDENTIAL
JAPANESE EIPIRE TRADE FIGURES
(In millions of yen)
Year Ending
Exports
Imports
Total
Trade Balance
1915
708
532
1241
+ 176
1925
2306
2573
4878
267
1930
1470
1546
3016
76
一
1935
2603
2618
5221
15
1936
2798
2928
5726
130
1937
3319
3955
7274
一
636
1938
2897
2836
5733
+
60
1939
3933
3127
7060
+ 805
1940
3972
3709
7681
+ 263
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.96)
4
CONFIDENTIAL
DISTRIBUTION OF
JAPAN'S
TRADE 1936-1939
(In millions
of
yen
EXPORTS
IMPORTS
BALANCE
End of Year
:1936:1937:1938:1939
1936:1937：1938:
1939
1936:1937:1938:1939
Empire Total
:2798：3319：2897:3933
2928
3955：
2836：3127
-130:-636:+ 60:+805
:t
Yen Bloc Area
762
900:1358:2082
558
610
737
893
+204 :+ 290 :+ 621 :1189
Korea, Formosa
and Mandate Islands
104
109
192
335
164
172
173
210
-60:
-63:+19:+125
2
Manchoukuo and
n
Kwantung
498
612
853
1292
239
294
399
467
+ 159
t 318;+454+825
.●
•●
China
160
179
313
455
155
144;
165
216
+
;+ 35+ 148+239
:
；
on
i
Free Exchange Areas :2036 : 2419
1539：1851：
2370
3345
2099
2234
-334:-926
:-560:-383
United States
594
639
425
642
847
1270
915
1002
-253
:-631:-490:-360
Other Countries
:1442:1780:1114;1209
1523
2075：1184：1232
-81:-295:
-70:-23
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
42
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
General Remarks on Japan's Foreign Trade.
Japan's foreign trade is an integral part of the nation's
life. Xinety years ago, Japan was self-sufficient and self-contained.
The pendulum swung far in the other direction, and five years ago
Japan seemed to be irrevocably committed to living by international
trade. She remains self-sufficient in most of her foodstuffs, but
raw materials to feed her growing industries are required and in a
measure paid for by the labor of her millions turning out finished
goods for foreign currency.
The rising control of Japan's military leaders have changed
Shidehara's plan for the peaceful development of international trade
to one of extending by military force Japan's political and economic
control over a vast region. They have today changed the vwhole pattern
of Japanese life. The Army in China and Hanchuria, together vith a
horde of small business men and carpet-baggers have moved in, easing
the unemployment problem, in fact creating a shortage of skilled labor
but disrupting the smali enterprises dealing in consumer goods to
almost a chaotic state. The luxury import trade has been completely
shut off, causing little concern among the masses, but considerable
murmur amon the upper moneyed classes. The most elementary consumer
articles have been curtailed for the Japanese people in favor of the
colossal demands of the Army and Navy for steel, machinery, oil,
trucks, wool, cotton and nitrates. Industries are being nationalized,
integrated, directed and controlled.
The American abrogation of the Treaty of Commerce and Navi-
¿ation gave great impetus to Japan's determination to reshape her
economy and avoid derendence on American supplies and markets. She
has sought to substitute Chinese, Indian, and Egyptian cotton for
American cotton and N.E.I. oil for United States oil. Japan has
been exchanging missions vith a number of Latin-Anerican countries in
recent months as part of the Japanese Government's policy of gaining
ner: trade markets to replace the rapidly shrinking markets in other
parts of the world--in Lurope because of the war, and in the United
States because of embargoes. "hile some of the commodities purchased
from Latin American countries may be reshipped from Japan to Germany
by way of the Trans-Siberian Railway, Japan has looked principally
to filling her own needs. Particular importance is attached in Japan
to the visit of a Mexican mission which cave the Japanese an opportun-
ity to exchange oil for textile oods. In spite of their wish to cut
loose from trade with the United States, the present circumstances
have intensified their dependence on America, not only as a consumer
of Japanese goods, but also as a supplier of essential meterials. In
1939 the United States purchased 35 of all Japanese exports outside
the yen bloc; United Stetes purchases of one Jepanese item, silk,
accounted for 24 (in value) of all Japanese sales outside the yen
bloc area. The hardest single blov vhich Japan's vital export trede
could suffer would be loss of the United States silk market. Conversely,
now commodities which in 1939 constituted 50, of our exports to Japan
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
43
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
are under embargo or subject to licenses vhich could be used to halt
shipments at any time.
The preceding tables show: that exports to Asia have in-
creased since i93l in exact proportion to a decrease in exports to
North America vith respect to the total yearly figure. Exports to
the United States in 1939 were approximately half the proportion of
imports. Imports from Asia, however, have only been maintained
vhile considerable gain from "orth merica has been shown. Imports
from South America have made reat strides.
The adverse trade balance climbed steadily to almost un-
precedented heights by 1937 but by 1939 shifted completely to a high
favorable balance. The war boom peak seems to have been reached the
summer of 1940 vhich brought the favorable balance down by the end
of the year.
The trade balance must be examined and compared vith respect
to the yen-bloc and free exchange areas. The adverse balance of trade
with free areas reached a hih in 1937 but dropped gradually by 1939.
Trade figures for the first nine months of 1940 indicate the unfavor-
able balance is again rising.
A careful examination of the trade position of Japan shows
the desirability of larger imports than exports from the yen bloc
areas, and that the opposite position be maintained with regard to the
free trade areas. The table shoing this position gives exactly the
opposite picture. Imports from the free areas are being extended in
order that exports vill go to the yen-bloc areas. This in itself
seems a contradiction to the policy of the military. Fi ures for the
nine month period of 1940 show even an increase in this tendency.
Japan's aim to become self-sufficient in trade within a
Great Dast Asia co-prosperity sphere has net vith a certain degree
of success. Actual consumnation of this grandiose scheme depends
entirely upon the nature and scope of interference offered by the
United States and Great Britain. On this one i sue rests the destiny
of Japan.
Even without interference, Japan's position as a nanufactur-
in nation is vitally dependent upon a much wider sphere, the whole
international sphere of trade. The international exchance of goods
on a basis of comparative costs remains essential to Japan's prosperity.
Japan, whether victorious or defeated in Asia will need foreign loans
and commercial arrangelents favorable for her imediate recovery in
export trade and eventual repayment of her indebtedness.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
44
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
4.
Transportation.
a.Railroads.
(1) Railway net. The Empire has a railway net which
adequately serves the normal demand both for freight and passenger
traffic. At the present time, however, the increased demand caused
by the var situation and the reat increase in population of the
large cities, has throvn a reat strain on the railrays.
In 1938, Japan proper had 24,878.20 kilometers of railway
lines, most of this line has a gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. About 7,000
kilometers of the total are local railways, privately owned.
The lines in Chosen consisted of 3,831.1 kilometers in 1939,
owned by the Government and 1,375.7 kilometers of privately owned
lines.
In Taivan there were, in 1939, 881.9 kilometers of Govern-
nent owmed railvay. Privately owned lines, nearly all narrow gauge
amounted in 1939 to 2,619.4 kilometers.
Karafuto has 342.9 kilometers of Government owmed line.
(2) State of Maintenance. The exact present state of the
railways has been considered a military secret since September 28, 1939,
but it can be said that the reat demands made upon the lines have
caused considerable deterioration in the rolling stock.
(3) Rolling Stock. The numbers and conditions of the
rolling stock of the Japanese railvays have been considered a military
secret from January, 1933.
All reports recsived indicate that there is a reat short-
age of rolling stock in Japan proper.
The same mystery has been thrown over any new construction
in the Empire. It may be assumed that there is not very much new
line being laid due to the shortage of steel.
(4) Railvay Equipment. Although most of Japan's equipment
is manufactured in Japan, there is a shortage of engines and cars
caused by the tremendously increased load placed on the railways by
the war. There are reports of great deterioration of rolling stock.
Because of these reasons, there have been shortages of materials in
Tokyo end other industrial centers due to the inability of the railvays
to carry them.
b.
Highways.
(1) Japan's roads cover approximately a million kilometers.
Practically all of this mileage is in dirt roads, very narrow, and
capable of takin only the typical Japanese tvwo-wheeled carts. There
are probably not over 2,000 kilometers of first class highway in the
Empire.
(2) Road Transportation. Since 1937 the conditions of
motor transport have not been made public. From available sources,
hovever, a fair picture can be made. The number of cars and trucks in
private hands have dininished considerably since 1938, due to the lack
of gasoline - and in the case of charcoal run vehicles, a shortage of
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
45
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
charcoal. Other reasons for the smaller number are (1) the con-
tinuing demand on the Japanese automotive producers by the Army,
and, (2) the smaller importation of foreign cars and parts, due to
the necessity of conserving Japanese foreign credits for military
purposes.
(3) Motor and Other Road Transportation. Due to the
severe rationing of asoline and other fuel, total fi ures on the
number of cars, trucks and busses vould be misleading, as probably
75% of the motor vehicles in private hands are off the road. Accord-
ing to the latest available reports, some 50% of the busses and 30%
of the trucks are using charcoal or some other substitute fuel.
These have proven to be reletively inefficient in operation, and in
addition there have been sporadic shortages of charcoal. Practically
no new production of motor vehicles has been designated for private
ownership, it being earmarked for the military. The chief trouble
of the automotive industry is the rationing of raw materials.
C.
Water Transportation.
(1) Merchant Marine. At the end of September, 1940,
Japan had registered 2,165 ships of 100 tons or over; 1,151 were of
1,000 tons or more.
The Japanese merchant fleet, having been closely tied
to the Navy, especially as to designs of ships, has a high proportion
of vessels convertible to naval use, as seaplane tenders, auxiliary
cruisers, scouts, transports, etc.
About 400,000 tons of ner shipnin is built annually.
The Herchant Harine includes 39 tankers and 6 whalers
convertible to tankers. Total oil capacity - 4,123,710 barrels.
The Japanese Terchant service is the third largest in the
rorld, and has been considered the most efficient. In the last
fev years the great denands made on the merchant ships by the war in
China have caused constant operation of vessels vithout opportunity
for periodic overhauls and small repairs. In consequence, there is
a reported reat deterioration in the merchant fleet, especially
freighters and smell passenger ships.
(2) Shinyards and Docks. The Japanese Empire has about
600 dockyards. The exact fi ure, since 1937, has been considered secret.
ost of this number are small and build only fishing and coastal craft.
The large yards - excluding naval building yards - are at Yokohama,
Kobe, Osaka, Fagasaki, and Hikoshima (Shimonoseki).
(3) Ports and Harbors. The principal ports in Japan are
Kobe, Osaka, Yokohama, oji, Magoya, and Nagasaki.
(4) Trade Routes. In recent years the percentage of
Japanese ships which bring goods to and from the Eastern coast of
Asia has risen sharply in relation to the volume of shipping to other
parts of the world. This is due mainly to two factors, (1) the war
in China which is absorbing an increasingly large part of the Merchant
Harine, and, (2) the great increase in trade with the Yen Bloc.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
46
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(5) Inland Later Routes. Formerly (before the China
War) a large portion of intra-Japan trade was carried by water along
the coast and in the inland sea. At present the desperate need for
shipping has caused most of these coastal vessels to be diverted to
the China run, thus dislocating a very important part of Japan's
vorking economic structure.
d. Air Transportation.
(1) The Dai-Hippon Airways Company (Dai Mippon Kokù
Kabushiki Kaisha) has a monopoly on all national and international
civil airway transportation of the Empire. This company was formed
in 1938, and is heavily subsidized by the government.
Major air routes covered by this company are:
1. Tokyo - Dairen
2.
Fukuoka - Taihoko (Taiwan)
3.
Tokyo - Sapparo
4.
Tokyo - Hsinking
5.
Tokyo - Peking
6.
Fukuoka - Nanking
7.
Taihoku - Canton
8.
Tokyo - Bangkok
9.
Tokyo - Palau - Timor
The agregate length of these routes is about 20,000
miles.
Principal types of planes used by the D-NKKK:
Dou las DC-3 - (Tvin en ines - capacity 17)
Dou las DC-2 - (Tvin en ines - capacity 17)
Lockheed 14 VG -3 (Tvin engines - capacity 14)
itsubishi Type 1 Transport
Takajima AT - (T in en ines - capacity 10)
itsubishi Airspeed "Envoy" -(T in en ines -
capacity - 6)
Fakajima Fokker "uper Universal"- (Sinle engine)
Beechcraft C-17-E
Heinkel HE-116
Kavanishi flyin: boat - (4 engines - capacity 24)
Fokker Transport (3 engines - capacity 10)
It is interesting to note that only three of the fore-
toin types are Japanese built. The designs closely follor: foreign
models.
There are 48 civil air fields and seadromes in the
Japanese Empire. Of these, seven are seadromes exclusively, and
seven others have both land and water landing places. However, civil
air services on the main islands have been suspended since October,
1940. The fields in Japan proper have probably been closed to all
civil traffic, with the exception of those which serve the overseas
air lines.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
47
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(2) Airplanes and Airplane Manufacture. On March 27,
1941 the Army and Navy air forces had, on hand, 2,921 first line
planes of all types with 50%; estimated in reserve, at schools, etc.
At the same time the production per month was 144 air frames and
345 engines. The total possible production under full war conditions
has been estimated at 250 air frames and 550 engines monthly.
The types of planes now appearin in the Japanese Army
and Mavy air services have reatly improved over those menufactured
in Japan up to 1938. Japanese designs seem to be folloring the
latest developments abroad, slthough their planes do not come up to
the very nerest in design or perfornance.
Reliable information has been received which indicates
that a number of German planes, pursuit and bombers, have been
shipped to Japan by vay of the Trans-Siberian Railvay.
5. Comrnunications.
a.
Cables. Cables connect Japan vith China, iberia, Hanila,
Guam and Jepan's outlying possessions. One American cable landed at
the Bonin Islands and two Danish lines landed at  a asali are the
only foreign cables into Japan, the latter have recently been ab-
sorbed by Japan. Mo nev. foreign concessions are being granted. The
United States is usually reached via Guam; and Lurope, Couth Asia
and Australia via hanghai. The island of Yap continues to be an
important center of cable communication.
b. Radio. Radio stations are distributed at various points
throu hout Japan and her possessions, inclucin the northernmost
Kurile Island, the southern tip of Formosa, all the leading Mandate
Islands, the Korean border and in  anchuria and China. The net is
very complete, so that Japanese ships operatin any here in the
Western Pacific are in easy contact with Tolyo. General broadcasting
bean in 1925 and at the end of 11ay 1940, there were about 5,000,000
licensed receiving sets. Fadio broadcasting in Japan is controlled
by one company, the Broadcastin Corporation of Japan, which is a
public service company operating vithout profit. Operating expenses
are covered by a monthly charge from each holder of a receiving
license.
Japan is divided into at least fourteen broadcasting
districts in cach of vhich a 10-ky. siation has been built. These
key staticns are at Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Kumamoto, Sendai,
Sapporo, Onomichi, Oita, Fukushima, Bofu, Koriyima, Latsuyama and
Aomori. There are also at least 28 sub-stations or relay stations
ranging from 300 watts to 3 k. so located that all parts of Japan
proper are vithin l00 miles from one of the stations.
Short vave radio broadcasts rere. inaugurated by the
Broadcasting Corporation of Japan in 1935. By March, 1939, Japanese
programs vere being heard in China and the South Sees, Forth and Couth
America and Europe. Analysis of the 300 hours of pro ram material
broadcast per month showed two-thirds of this time devoted to politi-
cal propaganda and news.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.91)
48
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
The International Tele-Communications Company vith tvo
sending and two receiving stations handles radio communications with
all parts of the world.
International telephone service is also handled by the
above company, which opened radio-telephone service on an inter-
national scale in 1934-36 between Japan and Formosa, the Thilippines,
Java, Sumatra, United States, Canada, Cuba, England, Germany, South
Africa, South America and Indo-China. The sending station is near
Nazaki, and the receiving station is near Komuro.
c. Telegraph. The telegraph system through 13,648 stations
extends to practically every village of the Empire. The lines exceed
27,000 miles and the service is fair.
d. Telephone. The telephone net extends to all the most
important tovns, with a fairly complete local net in the larger cities.
There were in larch, 1937, 1,019,329 telephone instruments and
4,369,474 miles of telephone lines. The service is comparatively poor,
6.
Finance.
a. National Income and Expenditures. The fiscal year begins
April 1st and ends the folloving March 3lst. Actual expenditures are
not knovn until all accounts are settled after the end of the fiscal
Year. The figures below are the best available official estimates.
National Budget
(In 1000 Yen)
Year
Total Income
Total Expenditures
Balance
1931-2 (actual)
1,531,082 (a)
1,476,875
54,157
1932-3
11
2,045,275(b)
1,950,140
95,135
1933-4
11
2,331,759 (c)
2,254,662
77,097
1934-5
11
2,246,982 (d)
2,163,004
63,978
1935-6
11
2,259,321 (e)
2,206,477
52,844
1936-7
11
2,372,098 (f)
2,282,175
89,923
1937-8
11
5,454,470(g)
5,249,157
205,313
1938-9
5,444,998 (h)
8,138,029
306,969
1939-40 (Estimate)
9,409,543 (i)
9,409,543
1340-41
11
11,557,431 (j)
10,912,154
645,277
1941-42
11
12,566,108 (k)
12,566,108
*Notes:
1931-2
(a) Includes
120,000,000 Receipts from issue of public loans
1932-3
(b)
11
660,000,000
11
11
11
11
It
1933-4
(c)
11
753,000,000
11
t
11
11
11
11
1934-5
(a)
11
743,000,000
11
11
11
11
1935-6
(e)
11
675,000,000
11
11
11
11
11
1936-7
(f)
11
610,000,000
11
11
1i
11
1937-8
(g)
11
2,230,000,000
11
11
11
11
11
11
1938-9
(h)
11
4,530,000,000
11
11
11
11
11
1939-40
(i)
5,517,000,000
11
11
11
1940-41
(j)
6,852,000,000
11
t
11
11
1941-42
(k)
11
7,574,000,000
11
11
1f
CONFIDEFTIAL

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
49
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Lational Budret (Cont'd)
Percentage of
Year
Army
Navy
Total Net'l Defense
Fational Dudget
1931-2
227,488
227,128
454,616
30.78
1932-3
373,575
312,809
606,384
35.19
1933-4
402,544
409,975
£72,619
38.70
1934-5
458,529
483,353
941,882
43.54
1935-6
496,558
536,378
1,032,936
46.81
1936-7
510,719
567,450
1,078,169
47.24
1937-8
2,751,696
1,200,595
3,952,291
75.29
1938-9
4,340,381
1,856,758
6,097,139
74.92
1939-40
4,659,978
1,772,197
6,432,175
68.35
1940-41
5,650,047
2,114,075
7,764,122
71.15
1941-42
5,364,137
2,458,243
7,822,380
62.24
*Note:
The fiscal years 1937-1941 inclusive, include a "China
Incident" Account vith a reserve for each year set aside
in the Finance inistry to pay interest on bonds issued.
The above ficures include this reserve budgeted to the
Arny and Navy st the same percentage rate eacl. department
received the China Incident funds.
Year
China Incident Account
Reserve
(In millions of yen)
1937-38
2540
350
1938-39
4850
550
1939-40
4605
650
1940-41
*540
750
1941-42
4571
780
*1,000,000,000 yen supplementary budet for nilitary expenditures
passed in January, 1941.
Expenditures for national defense increased steadily pre-
cedin the ashington Conference of 192l and reached a maximum of 50
percent of the total nationel expencitures on the fiscal year 1921-22.
Followin the Eashineton Conferences  ilitary and naval expenditures
declined rapidly until in the year 1930-31 only about 2C percent of
the national budget vas expended for national defense. Since the
invasion of : anchuria in l93l, both militcry and national expenditures
have increased. Almost four years of varfare in China have no brought
the four years average of the national defense budget to 73.32 of the
national bud et. y Lpril 1st, 1941, Japan had spent 74.75,. of the
national bud et on national defense or approximately tvice the overn-
:nent's net taxable income.
Since the beginnin of the China Incident in July, 1937,
to April, 194l, Japan's military expenditures have totalled epproxi-
mately 172 billion yen for the "incident" alone plus 7 billion yen
for her re ular military needs, brin ine her total var expenditure
COLFIDELTIAL

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
50
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
during these years to nearly 25 billion yen. Already this var has
cost Japan over ten times the amount of the Russo-Japanese var, her
εreatest rar up to the present. This affair has seriously veakened
her entire economic structure, has necessitated the readjustment
of all industrial, commercial, financial and sociel activities, has
been the source of many complications in international relations
and still remains the nation's major problem. Her chief concern nov:
is to increase the national wealth and income and set up systems of
control that vill continue her path of expansion and he emony over
eastern Asia.
b. Taxation. The national vealth of Japan has been estimated
to be about 86,000,000,000 yen in 1919 and 110,138,000,000 yen in 1930.
The latter figure represents a per capita vealth of 1709 yen.
An estimate of the national wealth at the end of 1939 based upon
1930 ficures was approximately 216,000,000,000 yen, representing
a per capita vealth of 2880 yen. National income in 1930 vas
arproximately 10÷ billion yen and increased to about 26 billion
by the end of 1940. Fational taxes have risen from about £35 million
yen in 1930-31 to 920 million yen in 1935-36, and to approxinately
3982 million yen in 1940-41. The principal taxes and their estimated
yields for 1940-4l vere income tax, 1200 million yen, special profits
tax, 557 million yen, tax on liquors, 280 million yen, corporation
tax, 265 million yen, customs duties, 159 million yer, and suger
tax, 156 million yen. Other taxes less important in their yield are
levied on land, business profits, capital interest, inherited property,
mining, soft crinks, textile fabrics, exchan es and foreign shipping.
The annual per capita national tax has increased fror 6 yen in 1917-18
to about 12 yen in 1935-36, and to approximetely 43 yen in 1940-41.
c. Banking and Currency. Bankin. is carried on by: (1) the
Deposits Dureau, a part of the  inistry of Finance end repository for
public funds to vhich are entrusted postal savines and postal trans-
fer savings, certain funds tran ferred fror special accounts of the
Government and other funds, and vhich may make investments "solely
for the benefit of the state and the public welfare in a profitable
and safe manner", (2) "special banks" semi-official institutions
created by special bankings lavs for special purposes, and (3) by
private institutions which operate under the  eneral banking lavs.
The privilee of issuin bank notes is restricted to three "special
banks", namely: The banl: of Japan, the Lank of Tairan, and the Bank
of Chosen, under conservative re ulations regardin specie reserves
outstanding note issues. The percenta e of notes held by each of
these three banks respectively are 25., 11,, and 4.
Gold specie holdings at home and abroad of the government
and the bank of Japan increased rapidly durine and immediately
after the Forld Iar to a maximum of about 217& million yen at the
end of 1920. By 1930 the gold reserves of the bank of Japan vere
826 million yen and though the official fi ure set by the Japenese
¿overnment since July 1938 still stends at 501 million yen, it is
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
51
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
felt that such a sum is highly exaggerated. Conservative estimates
would certainly set the amount vell belov: this figure. The Bank
of Japan's gold specie reserve provided S6p gold coverage of its
note issues at the end of 1920, 65% at the end of 1929, 27% at the
end of 1935 and approximately 10% at the end of 1940. The old
export embargo removed in January 1930, was reimposed on December
13, 1931.
Resources of banks of Japan proper at the end of the
various years indicated in millions of yen vere as follows:
1233
1935
1937
1939
1940
Paid-up Capital
1599
1547
1427
Reserve Fund
978
1069
1111
Deposits
11947
13418
16192
25092
31189
Loans
8720
8476
9608
15038
18371
The amount and increase of the postal savins deposits at
the end of the various years indicated in millions of yen vere as
follovs:
Year
Amount
Increase
1933
2801
1935
3112
311
1937
3686
574
1939
5578
1892
1940
7299
1721
The purchasing power of the yen today in Japan, quoted
at .2344, is about double this official rate of exchanc.
d. Savings. The key to Japan's ability to promote her present
wartime economy and future existence in Asia is for her to conscript
and control all her natural recources, namely: money, men and
materials. ith reeerd to her finances, the main reservoir of liquid
capital and money is derived from the savings of her people. terting
with the national income as the source of this liquid supply, savings
or that portion of the people's earnings not used for their daily
maintenance is the secret vhich lies behind Japan's ability to keep
going. The most outstanding characteristic of the Japanese people
from an economic stondpoint is now being utilized for her life and
death struegle in the modern vorld.
Banking funds, financial resources of the Deposit Dureau
of the Ministry of Finance, insurance and trust concerns, cooperative
credit societies, etc., constitute the main reservoir for financing
nev enterprises. Bank deposits contribute about 52), postal savings,
16%, reserves of insurance companies, 11, trust companies, C,
cooperative credit societies, 7%, and Post Office, life insurance
and life annuity reserves, 6 to the total supply of funds.
Added to the savings of these various financial institu-
tions are the values of the securities held by them vhich with their
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
52
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
savings constitute the most concrete data on the total savings or
accumulations of the nation.
The following table gives the approximate figures of the
savings, securities, their aggregate totals and increases since 1935.
Savings Deposit Increases (In ¥ illion)
Fiscal year ending
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939 1940
1940*
liarch 31st.
Savings in Financial
19471 20943 22527 24825 29777 3763 45498
Institutions
Direct Cecurity
13519 14803 16080 18271 20422 22210 24742
Investnents
Grand Total
32990 35746
38607
43096
50199 59873
70240
Yearly Increase
2756
2861
4439
7103 9674 10367
*End of December and 9 months total since March 3lst. Fote
all figures are estimates to be checked further.
The Mational Savins Encoura ement vureau of the Department
of Finance set & oal of ¿Oo0 million yen to be saved by the nation
the fiscal year 193889, 11,000 million yen for 1939-40, and 12,000
million yen for 1940-41. The lationel Cavins Association lav has now
enacted a program for saving 13,500 million yen for 1941-42. In each
fiscal period the government proposes to apportion from the total
amount raised, 50, to meet bond issues, 33, for productive expansion,
and 17, to take up the slac!. in the credit supply.
From the foregoin fiures it con be seen that the oal
vas alnost achieved in the fiscal years ending 1939, and 1940. Figures
for the period ending "arch 194l are still unpublished, but the nine
month figures ive a fair indication that the 12,000 million will be
raised. For the full year January 1939 thru December 1939 estimated
figures shor that increase in savings vere about 12,750 million yen,
vhile bonds digested and absorbed by the various financial institutes
were 6,755 million yen and 4,467 million yen for industrial expansion
at hone and in Manchoukuo and China. This totals 1l,222 million yen
.ith a balance of about 1,500 million yen vhich could be used as a
credit supply. This ¿oes to shor that first by encouragement, then by
compulsion, savines are solving at least for the time being the finan-
cial structure and progran of Japan.
e.
Public Debt. The national debt of Japan has increased
almost 500% since the " anchurian Incident" and has about trebled
since the "China Incident". The folloving tabulation indicates this
growth.
COMFIDERTIAL

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
53
COLFIDEITIAL
Japan
Economic
(Figures in ¥ illion)
End of Fiscal Year Domestic Debt Forein Debts Total Yational Debt
1931
4477
1479
5956
1936
8522
1332
9854
1938
11517
1300
12317
1940*
27008
1245
28253
*To end of December.
In 1931 the national debt averaged only about Yen 91 per
person, while at the end of 1940 it averaged nearly 382 per person,
an increase of 419.7 percent.
f. Financial Stability. Since 193l Japan has been increasing
her tempo of active expansion and military might. To keep this up a
new economic and financial program has been forced uron the nation.
Tith linister Takahashi as financial helmsman fron May, 1932, to
February, 1936, there vas financial stability, as he alone best knev
how to counter the increases in military expenditures and heavy
investments to consolidate the ains in lanchuria. By 1936 he rea-
lized that the limit of reflation had been reached and held firn to
a change of financial policy. He firmly maintained that the national
debt must not increase, taxes should not rise further, and net: bond
issues be reduced. Extension of sound peacetime industry and trade
rather than increase in nilitary expenditure and conversion of Japa-
nese productive economy to var industries vas his fornula for a strong
and healthy internal financial condition.
In February 193ó during the "Incident" r. Takahashi vas
killed as he and his policy interfered with the eneral program of
the military. From now on Japanese finance became subordinate to
militaristic demands. The military have ambled everything on their
expansion program. Hanchoukuo then and China nor must bend to their
will or Japan collapses. As more and more the vill of the military
is forced on the business man and all the people, the larger becomes
the stake and sacrifice of all concerned to this end. Japan must have
capital and to produce this, the national income and savings must be
increased. As national expenditures, including military expenses
mount, more and nore bonds must be floated.
It has long been contended that a ¿old reserve is
essential to the financial stability of a nation. This is true vith
reard to the external trade relations, but an internal financial
structure can be maintained with a small gold reserve by heavy direct
taxes or large scale savings, as evidenced by Germany, rho collects
taxes up to 30% of the national income. iany hsve predicted the
collapse of Japan due to her diminishing ¿old reserves, but she still
keeps on. The financial structure of Japan for years has been based
upon a small money clique in partnership vith the overnment carrying
on the expansion and development of industry. When money was needed
there was government subsidy or the monopolists borrowed from them-
selves. The military clique have now replaced the monopolists in their
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
54
CONFIDEFTIAL
Japan
Economic
partnership vith the government and by excercising control over
money, men and materials, can force productive expansion to be
totally conscripted for war. This means the surplus from the rich
as well as the poor in the form of savings and taxes can be stimu-
lated and gathered for use in this emergency. Taxes are still
relatively low (12% in comparison to Germany) but savings are being
utilized to the limit with the vhole nation forced to amble on the
"stake" in China. As long as national income is mounting or national
savings can be increesed, Japan's war-finance formula can be success-
fully carried out. A falling off of savings must reveal the infla-
tionary character of such a system and bring with it dire consequences,
consequences alvays felt by the total masses.
The internal financial stability of Japan is now in an
artificial unsound condition. It is tied to absolute success in
Eastern and Southern Asia. : ortgaged to this condition are the taxes
both in blood and sweat which the people for years to come must pay.
The recovery period from 1932-36 which was gearing Japan to a quasi-
vartime economy was successful only because vages were kept down and
industrial rationalization increased. Inflation did not set in due
to this fact. Tov inflation is in a cumulative stage as living costs
are risin over and above va es and the people are forced daily to
pull their belts tighter and give up the cood things of life, bending
more and more to the vill of their military masters.
From all indications Japan's peak in productive stability
vas reached the sumrer of 1940. Since that time due to heavy demands
for industrial funds, bond issues are not bein absorbed as fast by
the ordinary banks, the increase in postal savings have fallen off,
the stock market has declined, the unfavorable trade balance vith
forein currency countries has increased, invisible payments have
fallen off and thicre is & rising realizatior on the part of the
people that the floating of national bonds cennot go on forever and
continue to have face value.
The conclusion seems to be that though Japan's internal
financial structure may be at present sound, it is purely artificial.
American-Japanese trade is still furnishin Japan vith the gold as
well as certain basic strategic supplies that maintain her present
wartime economy. Any chan e would force Japan to take by arms the
materials she lacks, where she can, and in quantities that vill
satisfy her wartime industries.
7.
Population - Economic Aspects.
a. Present Population and Grovth. The Japanese Empire in 1935
had an official population of 99,45o,C1& vhich included the Kwantung
leased Territory, the South anchuria Railvay zone and the South Sea
Mandated Islends. Of this number 21,24&,C64 vere Chosenese livin
in Chosen. There are, hovever, more than 500,000 Chosenese living
in Japan Proper. Also there are more than 5,000,000 Chinese in
Taiwan and more than 150,000 "Taiwanese" living there. Thus in 1935
there were approximately 70,000,000 of the Tanato or Japanese race.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
55
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Population figures are quite inaccurate since the beginning
of the China "Incident"; vhere they approach accuracy, they are
misleading. But there are certain factors of importance that should
be noted.
The total population of Japan proper in 1925 was approxi-
mately 59,737,000 with 30,013,000 males and 29,274,000 females
(a difference of 739,000 in favor of males); in 1930, the ponulation
was 64,450,000 vith 32,390,000 males and 32,060,000 females (a dif-
ference of 330,000 in favor of males); in 1935, the population was
69,254,000 vith 34,734,000 males and 34,520,000 females (a difference
of 214,000 in favor of males). The official figures for 1940, if and
when they are published, will be extremely interesting.
The phpulation of Japan proper for 1937 was estimated at
about 71,000,000 people. If the conditions in 1937 are re arded as
normal, those in 1938 may be considered to have been affected by the
China "Incident". The actual increase of births over deaths in 1937
which vas 973,000 in 1937 fell sharply to 669,000 in 1938. This
corresponded to a decrease in the birth rate per 1,000 of population
of from 30.6 in 1937 to 20.7 in 1938. (There is no vay of estimating
the increase of population in China as a result of the Japanese soldiers
being involved in the Cnina "Incident"!)
It is true that if grorth of population is one of the
basic factors of economic progress for investment outlet and capital
formation, the 300,000 decrease in birth rate in 193C as against
1937, and the corresponding decreases in subsecuent years, should be
added to the cost of the China "Incident".
In a previous Ecolonic Estimate (that of 1936), the state-
ment vas made that "the menace of population rovth in Japen lies
rather in the direction of economic warfare than in large scale mi-
gration. Increased industrialization in Japan, under which raw
materials are imported and manufactured into finished comnodities,
and then, in turn, exported and the proceeds thereof used to buy raw
materials abroad seems to be the present Japanese plan for meeting the
population question. This plan of course, involves ruthless economic
varfare by Japan for her national existence and vill more and more
denend upon her ability to dominate Asia by force". This statement,
vritten in 1936, accurately predicted the situation vith vhich Japan
and Asia are confronted at the present time (1941). The great obstacle,
from the point of viev of Japan, is that she is finding considerable
difficulty in dominating Asia by force. As the length of time in-
creases during which Japan is making the attempt, to a similar extent
is Japan's normel acquisition of raw materials for her population
becoming more difficult. The breaking of this vicious circle is
complicated by Japan's ambitious progran in southeast Asie and the
East Indies along vith her program in vorld affairs in general.
Urbanization. Another economic aspect of the population
problem is the vast urbanization that has been necessary in the process
of industrializing and providing for the var in China. There have been
no decreases in the estimated population (in 1939) of the 151 cities
and tovns of Japan but the folloring significant increases:
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 323 === (confidence 1.00)
56
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Urbanization (Continued)
Population
Population
in 1925
in 1939
City
(Census)
(Estimate)
Tokyo
5,875,667
6,581,100
Osaka
2,989,874
3,394,200
Nagoya
1,082,816
1,249,100
Kyoto
1,080,593
1,177,200
Kobe
912,179
1,006,100
Yokohama
704,290
866,200
Fukui
75,273
104,500
Amagasaki
71,072
152,100
Chiba
57,446
92,800
Miyakonojo
36,575
62,600
Toyonaka
24,126
46,000
Tokoyama
20,145
31,800
Funabashi
26,449
47,700
Handa
18,217
50,200
Fuse
48,696
120,700
3ofu
30,606
56,900
Hidachi
34,536
68,200
It is obvious that such rapid increases of urban population
have put a strain on the agricultural and transportation facilities
of the country to provide the necessary food. The estimate for 1939
was in each case considered rather conservative; the situation now
(1941) is probably much more significant in regard to increase of
urban population.
The total urban population in 1935 comprised 22,655,920
or 32.7 percent of the population of Japan proper. In 1939, it was
estimated that the urban population had increased to 26,676,400 or
36.6 percent of the total population.
In Japan proper the population density is about 476 persons
to the square mile (1935). Only Holland, Belgium and England have
more densely populated countries. The density of population in Japan
differs greatly according to the section. The prefecture of which
Tokyo is a part is the most densely populated with 7,692 per square
mile, while Hokkaido has 90 people per square mile.
b.
Expatriation and the Dual Citizenship Problem. Until 1916
Japan did not recognize expatriation of her sons and daughters who
acquired foreign citizenship, excepting those Japanese women who
married foreign subjects. The result was that Japanese who were born
in the United States and thereby became citizens were still carried
on the Japanese census rolls) thus they were in the peculiar situation
of having double nationality or were "dual citizens". Although the
Japanese Law of Nationality was revised in August, 1916, and further
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
57
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
amended in December, 1924, the problem is not yet solved beceuse
American born Japanese boys (unexpatriated) are still technically
liable to the Japanese conscription law.
Brazil has for many years been the outlet for the largest
number of Jepanese emigrants. In 1936 a total of 5,357 Japanese
subjects, representing 48% of the total number of emigrants for that
year, went to Brazil. The next largest outlet hes been the
Philippines which accounted for 2,89l in the seme year.
C. Lebor. Compared with labor in Occidental countries
Japanese labor receives much lower wages with general labor conditions
being worse. Traditionel subserviency of employees to their masters
still exists. The labor movement is gradually growing in power, how-
ever, in line with the creation of giant orgenizations.
While organized laborers in 1936 accounted for only 6.9
percent of the total number of laborers the absolute increase of such
workers in the eleven years from 1926 to 1936 was 68 percent. The
number of labor unions in the various industries heve fluctuated in
the pest few years. In 1937 there were 837 unions as compared with
973 in the previous year. Union membership has been lergest in the
transportation enterprise in recent years, followed by the machine and
tool industry.
The number of factories increased from 31,717 in 1914 to
106,005 in 1937. The number of laborers increesed two and one-half
times, totaling 2,936,512 factory laborers in 1937. Male laborers
accounted for 1,727,032 or 58.8 percent of the total.
According to an investigation made by the Bank of Japan
the average deily wages of factory workers stood at  2.208 for male
and ¥ 0.723 for female workers in December, 1932. Similar figures in
December, 1938, showed ¥ 2.560 for men and Y 0.839 for women.
The maximum workkng hours are fixed at ll. This, however,
applies only to factories employing the protected workers, i.e., male
operatives under 16 years of age end female operatives. There are no
restrictions for those fectories employing adult males.
Women must not be employed four weeks before and after
childbirth. But four weeks after childbirth they may be employed,
when so desired by them in work judged harmless by physicians. Women
with children not over one year old must be allowed to suckle them
twice a workdey, for periods not exceeding half an hour.
Wartime labor policies. Vith the progress of Sino-Japanese
hostilities, the demand for labor in the armament industries is growing
apace, whilst peacetime industries suffer from the official restriction
of domestic consumtion and raw materials. In view of this situation,
the Welfare Ministry decided on June 2, 1938 on two fundamental labor
policies as follows:
(1) Measures to assure an adequate supply of workers
for the armament industries.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
58
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
(a) Adoption of a two-shift system in the armament
industries and mines.
(b) Increased activity of employment exchanges under
Government control.
(c) Subsidy grants to private institutes which
educate technicians and skilled workers, and expansion
of occupational guidance facilities in national employ-
ment exchanges.
(a) Restriction of competition for obtaining skilled
labor (by application of Article 6 of the National
General Mobilization Law).
(e) A registration system for ascertaining the occupa-
tion and vocational skill of workmen(by application of
Article 21 of the National General Mobilization Law).
(f) Regulation of employment of new graduates of
engineering and mining schools and colleges under a
license system.
(2)
Wartime unemployment policies.
(a) To transfer unemployed workers in the non-urgent
industries to the armaments industries.
(b) Increased activity of national employment exchanges
to assist discharged workers in changing and finding
occupations.
(c) Inducement to women and girls discharged from the
cotton and woolen industries to return to rural dis-
tricts.
(d) Occunational guidance and re-education, by the
Governnent of unemployed other than the above mentioned
workers.
(e) Unemuloyment relief works and work-providing
facilities.
8.
Economic Penetration by Foreign Interests.
Japan is exceptionally free from economic penetration end en-
croachment on the part of alien powers. This is due to strict govern-
mental control directly through ovmershin of many of the large interests
and indirectly by means of subsidies and protective tariffs favoring
Japanese concerns. General liotors of Japan, Ford Hotor Company of
Japan and the Victor Talking llachine Company are believed to be the
only strictly foreign companies of importance and it has been reported
that the latter company has sold a majority interest to Japan. The
electrical manufacturing industry has large foreign capital investments,
though with minority interest.
There is no doubt about three main features. The first, is that
the chief creditor countries are the United States with $420,000,000 at
the end of 1937 followed by Great Britain with about $215,000,000,
Germany and Sweden. The second, is that the great bulk of the invest-
ments consist of Japanese Government or municipal securities or port-
folio investments taking approximately 87%, the remaining 13% consisting
chiefly of interests in public utilities and direct investment by
American manufactures. The third point is that Japan has never defaulted
on the interest or principal of any of her foreign debt.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
59
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Since the war indications point to a growing accumulation of
frozen funds of American firms operating in the country.
9.
Economic Penetration into Foreign Countries.
Japanese penetration, economically, of neighboring territory on
the Asiatic mainlend has progressed rapidly. Investment figures are
incomplete as yet, but at the end of 1935 it was estimated that Japanese
investments in China were approximately 2 billion yen and at the end of
1939 investments in Manchoukuo almost doubled this amount. To system-
atically develop the areas on the Asiatic continent under her control,
Japan is setting up various development companies such as she did in
Korea, with the Oriental Development Company, in Manchuokuo, with the
Manchuria Industrial Development Company, in China, with the North China
Development Company and the Central China Development Company. These
companies are really large holding companies concerned with making
investments in the subsidiary companies within their sphere in order
to consolidate and coordinate management and operation. Japanese prac-
tically control the iron production of China and a ccnsiderable portion
of the coal output, though during the "Incident" normal production has
been curtailed. Many textile mills and other factories in China are
owned by Japanese. Through agreement with Russia, Japan has important
oil concessions which she is developing in North Saghalien, timber
concessions in eastern Siberia and fishing along the Siberian shores.
The large number of Japanese in Havaii, the United States and Brazil
have agricultural and other interests in the countries where they
reside. The Japanese in the Philippine Islands have important holdings
in the Davao hemp district of lfindanao.
Japan's control of Manchoukuo is complete and is affected through
placing Japanese officials in key positions of the lanchoukuo Govern-
ment. Through this control, Japan is enabled to monopolize the economic
development of lianchoulkuo. It might be added that iianchoukuo is a
prototype for a conquered China.
Japanese penetretion of world markets, particularly for textiles,
iron manufactures, peper and pottery has increased enormously in .
recent years.
10. Influence of Economic Situation on Foreign Relations.
Japan's economic policy has been gradually widening during the
past decade. With territorial expansion was linked an economic idea -
that of regional self-sufficiency, or the "bloc economy". In 1931,
Hanchuria was called Japan's "economic life-line". In 1932-33 the
watchword was the "Japan-llanchoukuo Economic Bloc". After 1937 the
demand was for a "Japan-China-iianchoukuo bloc". Finally, the slogan
today is for a "Great East Asia" to include the rich territories of
Indo-China, Malaya the East Indies and the Philippines.
Japan's present policy is to extend political control over a
vast region. Raw materials in this area are to be conscripted and
merkets opened and held by force. The wider this territory becomes
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
60
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
the larger become the requirements for materials to extend such an
economy. Germany in Europe is a current example of Japan in Asia.
Japan realizes now that only b military occupation can her bloc
economy succeed.
With each success of Germany, Japan widens her sphere and lays
more grandiose schemes. Existing world economic spheres belonging
to competing powers such as the United States and England are forced
to consolidate their positions. The re-division of bloc economies
and their head-on collisions are the order of a new age. Within this
order is a growing shift to a barter-economy and a cornering of the
basic raw materials by the conquering powers.
The countries most strategically affected in this collision
are forced either to appease or fight. The clearest example today is
the fact that the United States and ngland must continue to sell oil
to Japan or run the risk of pushing Japan into an immediate attack
upon the Netherlands East Indies which would raise the likelihood of
war with Australia, New Zealand and the British forces in Malaya and
Singapore. This in turn would make an American-Japanese clash almost
inevitable. Anglo-American activity at the present must be centered
in urope and the ilear East.
All treaties, either economic or political, today have become
as oil to grease the wheels of the present emergency in the various
spheres of regional hegemony. Japan makes or breaks such treaties
with impunity either to extend her progress or consolidate her portion.
With opportunistic designs she rides before the wind and is to be
stopped only by a stronger power or combination of powers.
11. General Conclusions.
Recognizing the danger of oversimplifying the economic situation
as it relates to the Japanese, one can safely say that she expects
to expand her economic interests in southeestern Asia and the south-
western Pacific as much as she can without going to war with the
United States. In other vords, she proclains her desire for peace
with the United States at the same time she totally disregards any
factor standing between her and eventual domination by force of
regions she considers within her "sphere".
One can justifiably make the statenent that the economic situa-
tion in Japan vill probably get no worse than it is at the present
time (liay 194l). Because of the poor rice crops in Japan proper for
the past year and the lack of raw materials, Japan has probably
reached the proverbial nadir of her economic situation unless addition-
al obstacles are created to prevent the improvement of her economic
condition.
To quote the report of the American Consulate General of liarch
17, 194l: "Japanese activities along economic lines in Indo-China,
Thailand and the Netherlands' Dast Indies are reported to be beginning
to bear fruit; further, Germany reputedly is giving Japan 'a quite
substantial material help' as well as extensive technical advice:
therefore, German experts are said to discount the possibility of a
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
3
CONFIDENTIAL
Japan
Economic
Japanese economic collapse under present political conditions, and
even if the status quo ante were to be reestablished in China in a
settlement of the Sino-Japanese conflict 'it is taken for granted
that the Japanese economic predominance in the East Asiatic area
can be considered firmly established and very difficult to be shaken
off' ".
There are, however, increasing signs of economic strain in
Japan. In spite of the fact that war has brought a temporary pros-
perity, manufacture is booming (where raw materials are obtainable),
and there is no great unemployment problem, wages have not increased
in proportion and the people are carrying a heavy burden. Japan is
facing inflation, a lack of foreign credits; the only reason that
there has not been a complete disruption of her domestic financial
organization may be found in internal governmental control, heavy
taxation, and the increasing savings accounts built up by the people.
The essential fact remains that Japan lacks essential raw
materials to support either her manufacturing trade or a major war
effort. To procure them she must have foreign exchange. If the present
unfavorable trade balance is not radically adjusted it appears that
complete exhaustion of all assets capable of being converted into
foreign exchange to balance the debit in international payments will
occur in the near future (some say by the end of 194l.) This will
result in the stoppage in the inflow of a considerable part of the
raw materials which are vital to the organic well-being of Japan, and
her ability to wage war will be seriously curtailed. No other country
even approaches the United States in its importance to Japan both as
a source of raw materials and as a market for exports. From the point
of view of the Japanese, discontinuance of this trade with the United
States would be catastrophic. In other words, the United States is
todey in a position to wreck completely the economic structure of the
Japanese Empire.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.94)
5809
REUIRED
(Bureau of Foroign & Donostic Commerce - Manual
THIS COPY MUST BE
RETURNED TO DCA
of Instructions - Part I - Section VII-
25)
4xCom
DEPARTMENT OF STA
RECEIVED
DEC 18 1941
187was
DIVISION
107E
10 T 9 withnote
RECOROS
EXCELLENI
Department el
EBC
No. 136
Srgned sist.
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
m
ANNUAL ECONOMIC REVIEN OF JAPAN
3/12/41
1940
DIVISION
S-NK:mB8
894.50/155
A
Frank S. Williams
Ancrican Enbassy, Tokyo
D:tc of Completion: January 25, 1941
894.50
D..te of Mailing: February 10, 1941
4
File No. 020(D)
FSN/DSW/DWL/mp
Distribution:
DEC 18 1941
Original and 49 copics to Dopartment

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
3
TABLE OF CONTEITS
Page
General Resume..
2
Extension of Official Control and Trend of
Legislation.
12
Financial Developnents..
15
Industrial Developnents and Production.
26
Cotton Spinning & Weaving....
31
Iron and Steel Inaustry....
34
Employment and Wages..
38
Co.modity Prices and Living Costs.
39
Agriculture.....
41
Raw Silk..
43
Rice.
45
Foreign Trade.
47
Outlook for 1941.
50

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.95)
7
y
Through the intricate maze of events trans-
piring in Japan and abroad during the year 1940, there
emerged two crystalized objectives in this country;
the establishment of a highly organized national
defense system, and the creation of a Greater East
Asia Co-prosperity Sphere. These two projccts, although
synonymous and interdependent, have been characterized
by Japanese leaders as bcing equally important and
equally essential. During the greater part of the year,
therefore, major efforts were dirccted towards the re-
adjustment of the nation's economy along those lines
considercd most practicable for the actual realization
of these objectives.
Inability to terminate the China Incident
and repercussions from the European War intensified the
urgency for such efforts and wcre chiefly responsible
for the birth of the New National Structure Movement,
the hastening of the plan for the Greater East Asia Co-
prosperity Sphere, and the conclusion of the Tripartite
Pact. The first cnvisagos tho abandonmcnt of liberalism,
the institution of complete totalitarianism, the con-
solidation of industrial units into small groups strictly
controllcd by thc State, nuncrous restrictions on the use
9
of corporate, bank and private funds, and strict control
5●
of the production, distribution and consumption of all
important commoditics. Tho Greator East Asia Co-
prosperity Sphere has for its declared object the
ostablishment of an indepondent and self-sufficient
economic

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.94)
..-3
è
7
oconomic bloc comprising an extensive, but as yet un-
defined, area in Asia dominated by Japan with tho
Japan-"Manchukuo"-China bloc forming the nucleus of
the larger unit. Thc Tripartite Pact, "designed to
keep the United States out of the European War", has
brought numorous additional political and trade com-
plications, particularly in Japan's relations with the
心
Unitod States and Great Britain.
The efforts expended during the year towards
cconomic reorganization centered almost entirely on
the strengthening of State control, which was extended
to every phasc of the nation's life - industrial,
financial, agricultural, commercial, political and
social. Despite the progross made in this direction,
the onc outstanding fcature of gcncral economic activity
during 1940 was reccssion, clcarly discernible in
industrial production, in agricultural output, in finan-
cial developmonts, in forcign tradc, in ordinary busi-
ness transactions and profits, and in tho degree of
provailing internal prosperity.
Industrial Production
All available indices and reports indicate a
→
slow dctcrioration of industry under the continuous
strain of tho protracted struggle in China, tho broad
cxtension of Statc control, serious shortages of
essential matcrials, labor and cloctric power, and a
furthor docline in industrial cfficiency.
The

=== Page 333 === (confidence 1.00)
The major policy of expanding the nation's
productive capacity encountered numerous obstacles,
chief of which was the defects in controlled economy.
The materials mobilization plan met difficulties from
the low level of mining, industrial and agricultural
production, and curtailed imports. The extensive
economic plans for the yen bloc areas also fell
short of their objective as receipts of raw materials
from occupied China continued disappointing for
economic penetration into that country has as yet
shown little profit. This is largely attributed to
the Japanese Army having arrogated to itself the
economic reshaping of the occupied areas and the
exercise of complete authority in that respect -
a task for which it has demonstrated its unfitness.
Heavy industries suffered greatly from
the shortage of materials. This dilemma also ex-
tended to those plants turning out consumers' pro-
ducts but in teir case was intensified by the
decline in export demand and restrictions placed on
domestic sales. For the first eight months of the
year the general industrial production index showed
a drop of 3.6% and the manufacturers' index re-
gistered a loss of 4.5%, while the mining index
was up by 2.8% as compared ith the corresponding
period of 1939. Extensive recession occurred in
the output of cotton yarns and textiles, silk yarns,
and rayon yarns and textiles, but silk textile pro-
duction

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
r
r
5
duction advanced on hcavier demand as a substitute for
cotton goods.
Agriculture
The valuc of agricultural output was approxi-
matcly 8-1/2% below that for 1939, chiefly as a result
of the shortagc in fertilizors and labor and prevailing
unfavorablc weather conditions. The year's rice
crop was lower by 11.7% than that for 1939 and 6.6,% be-
low the average for tlio past fivc years. Cocoon pro-
duction fcll off by 3.6% and barlcy 3%, but there was a
gain of 8% in wheat output. Governmont control was
oxtcnded to thc distribution of numerous &gricultural
products, especially rice, sugar, charcoal ana eggs,
and official price fixing rcgulations wore applied to
practically all farm products. A rationing system
for staple food supplios was instituted, but even so
widesproad discontent prevailed over high co.modity
priccs and the scarcity of daily necessitics. Agri-
cultural income for the year is ostimated at four
billion yen, a docline of 8.6,% from that for the pre-
vious yoar. Plans were projccted for widespread ex-
pansion of agricultural output through tho medium of
planned production of rice and othcr staplo foodstuffs,
improvement of tillable land, and incroased production
of fertilizcrs to meet tho current food shortage, but
no perceptible progress resulted.
Financial

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
r
6
一
Financial Developments
The strain on financial resourccs was mani-
fested by an increasc of Yen 1,112,377,000 in the
note circulation, a decline of l2% in the rate of
national bond absorption, a rise of Yen 6,668,000,000
or almost 24% in the n&tional debt, the enforcement
of substantially hcavier taxes, a sharp reccssion in
exports to foreign currency countrics, a striking in-
crease of 1l7,% in thc import excoss with theso areas,
and a reduction of 50% in the value of exports of
gold.
By the cnd of 1940 the China Incident had
cost Japan over sixteen billion yen and still rcmained
the nation's major problom, further complicated by
the European War dovelopments.
The demand for funds
rose consistontly from the urgency of national bond
absorption and the industrial production expansion
program. Efforts to satisfy those demands wcrc not
overly successful, for a decided scarcity of funds
prevailed, cspecially during the latter half of the
ycar. Furthermore thore appeared concrete signs of
a recossion from the high degree of internal pros-
perity and cconomic activity attained through l939 as
a result of the China Incident. The rates of increase
in bank doposits, postal savings and band absorption
dropped; businoss profits and thc valuc of bill clear-
ings were lowcr; the number and value of dishonored
bills wore notably higher; and therc was a marked
decrease

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
decrease in tho number of applicants for permits for
capital increases and for the establishment of now
busincsses. Also there was a decline in production
volume, an unprccedented demand for cash which
stiffened moncy rates, a substantial shrinkage in the
corporate debenturc market, and a stoady dovmward
tondency throughout the year in stock markct trans-
actions and priccs. Ordinary banks adopted a more
cautious attitude toward applications for loans,
thero was a greatcr participation in industrial
finance and bond absorption by semi-Government banks
and the Deposits Bureau of the Ministry of Finance,
and Governmont control was strengthened over corporate
and privats funds and bank loans.
Forcign Trade
Intcrnational commorcial relations were sub-
jected to numerous impacts. Tho absence of any
commercial treaty with the United Statcs gave rise to
considcrablo anxicty over the disruption of trade be-
twcen the two countries. This apprehension was well
founded, for during thc year exports of c wide
varicty of products, including industrial chemicals,
2
machinc tools, potroleum products, iron cnd steel
scrap, pig iron, iron and stoel finished products,
abrasives, machincry, ctc., were placed undor the
United States Government's Export Liconsing System
and shipnents of thesc itcms to Japan matorially re-
duccd

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
7
r
8
duced during the latter part of the year
Relations with Soviet Russia showed no
approciable inprovemont. The military advance into
French Indo-China had a very significant cconomic
objective as the shortage of Jepan's rice crop made
forcign supplies imperativo. Closor contact was
mado with tho Netherlands East Indics to insure ade-
quato supplics of oil and other products, and more
strenuous cfforts were dirccted towards improving
trade relations with South Amcrica and Moxico. War
conditions accentuated the tension with Great Britain,
but trado with tho British Enpire continucd a very
important contribution to Japan's cconomy despite
the dwindling volume and rostrictions on cxports to
Japan of sevoral vital matorials by Canada, Australia
and India.
The relcase of dctailed foreign trade
statistics was prohibitcd as of Octobcr 16, 1940, but
from such informatin as is availablc it is strikingly
ovident that trade rcsults wore far fron satisfactory.
Thc total for tho yoar roached Ycn 7,681,000,000,
highor by 8.7% than for 1939. Exports wcre disappoint-
ing with only a ls gain, with a largor porcentage going
to tho yen bloc areas and a sharp decline occurring in
shipnonts to forcign currency countries. Imports
were up 19% with purchases from foreign currency
areas, particularly the United States, about 7% above
those for the previous year. Trade during the latter
part

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.97)
c
9
part of thc yoer dwindlcd substantially and imports
wcre confined almost cntircly to war materials and
supplies. The import cxcess with foreign currency
countries nountcd from Yen 405,000,000 in 1939 to
approximatcly Yen 880,000,000.
Business Activity
While domestic business experiended a
cortain dogrec of prosperity, this wis largely offset
by higher conmodity prices, scarcity of supplies and
officially rostricted busincss activitics. Moreover
thc inflationary trend was substantially checked by
tho Govornnent's price fixing systcn. Dissatisfaction
wis prevalent over the inferior grade of merchandise
offcred, the shortagc of staplo food itoms, and the
apparent unsynpathctic attitude of thc official class
towards small and nedium-sized businessmen who had
been forced to give up their busincss entirely and
seek other means of support.
In the ficld of largo business intcrests
there were unmistakable signs that some of the
largest and oldest cstablished corporations were on
the downgrade from inefficient managonont, financial
strain, and the offocts of unsound Stato control
measurcs. Soie of theso conccrns are the chief
support for key industrics. Thc outstanding failure
rosulting fron Government control, forced analgamation
and poor supervision is to be found in the
electric

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
10
clectric powor industry, almost completely dominated
by thc semi-Governmont Japan Electric Power Genoration
and Transmission Company. Indicativo of tho increas-
ing trend towards corporato amalgamations, 130 con-
corns wero merged during thc first cleven months of
the year, involving a total capital of
Ycn 2,239,000,000.
Transportation
Japan's ontirc commercial transportation
systom is in a vcry decropid statc. .Railwey equipment
is old and urgently in need of repairs. Trucks and
buscs have beon running for years without proper re-
placoments and lubrication, and privatc cars have
becn reduced to an cxtromoly small nuaber through im-
port rostrictions, woar and tcar, lack of proper up-
koep, and scarcity of gasolino. Tho majority of
such units have been converted into charcoal or gas
burners, both of which havo proved most unsatisfactory.
Roads have doterioratcd and very fcw milos of new
hard surface highways have beon constructed during the
past fow ycars.
Shipping facilitics havo likcwise do-
torioratcd largoly from military conscription of
bottoms for transports, shortogc of coal, and lack of
matorials for repairs. Extreme difficultics have
been mct with by importcrs in obtaining sufficient
space for coal, iron ore, and othor important pro-
ducts

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.97)
C
11
ducts acquircd in Ecst Asian ports. The European War
forcod a marked curtailment of ovcrscas sailings,
which with the contraction in cxports to forcign
currency countrics, has substantially reduced re-
ccipts from invisiblc payments.
Social
Unquestionably a strong feeling of rosent-
mont prevails against existing control moasurcs, restric-
tions on personal frcedom, doprivations of daily
necessitics, incrcasing costs of living, and thc over-
bearing attitude of Governncnt officials, and is to a
very large cxtent shared by all classes of the
Japanese pooplc - from the lowcst to thc highest. The
leveling procoss now being cmployed to force the
woalthy classes to sivo up their plcasurcs, such as
motoring, golf, social ontcrtainments, otc., is evi-
dcntly to plccato thc mass of thc peoplc. Furthermore.
one f thc major principlos of the Icw Structure
Movcment is to curtail the influencc of the wealthy
class over Jepan's economic and financial structures?
Effocts of European Wer
The Europcan War substantially limited
Japan's export and import markets, restricted commor-
cial nevigation, was rosponsiblc for thc intensified
trado and exchango control in sterling aroas and in
tho United Statcs, but of primary importancc offered
Japan

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
Japan unexpcctcd opportunitics to further her long
cherished ambition to consolidate the groater pert of
East Asic into onc gigantic economic unit. Positive
steps takon to countcract the wcr's rcpercussions in-
cludcd additional revisions of the matcrials mobiliza-
tion and productive capacity oxpansion plans, adoption
of tho proferential system aimed at attaining self-
sufficicncy in cssential matcrials, and the enforce-
mont of swoeping new legislation cxtending State con-
trol to practically evory phasc of tho nation's
cconony and to overy commodity of any importance. In
addition, conmodity prices wcrc morc strictly regulated,
finuncial rosourcos more extensively rogimented,
numerous corporate units amalgamated, and strenuous
efforts directcd towards streamlining the cntire
cconomic structurc.
EXTENSION
OF OFFICIAL CONTROL AND TREND
OF
LEGISLATION
Seldom in a singlo year of Japan's history
have so many laws and regulations been pro ulgated
and enforced as in 1940. ith fcw oxcoptions these
vere desigucd to tightcn Statc control over tho pro-
duction, distribution and consumption of cssential
matorials, conmoditics and utilitios, ovor corporate
and bank funds, foreign exchange, conmodity prices,
forcign trade, farmlands and forests. Such a degree
of Governmont control and planned cconomy as pro-
jcctod by this swcoping lcgislation offors ample
evidence

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
7
a
13
evidenco of tho accelorated trend attained during tho
year towards totalitarianism.
To spcod up thc plan for productive capacity
expansion it was found neccssary to intonsify control
over consumption of clectric power and coal, as
scrious shortages continued to prevail. To insure
financial support for this plan end to mect tho ever-
incroasing donand for funds for thc absorption of
national bonds, several notoworthy moasures were in-
stituted augmonting control over corporate and bank
funds, limiting dividcnds, provonting loans for spccu-
lation cnd hoarding, and of particular significance
rogulating tho usc of asscts of cooperative credit
socictics.
To prevont furthcr shortagus of foodstuffs
and higher cests of living, decrees were issued provid-
ing for control of tho distribution and pricos of frosh
vegotables, for tlhe sale of canncd agricultural and
marinc products, for the distribution of whcat and
rice, and for tho control of conmoditics constituting
deily necossitics. To insurc incrcasod production of
foodstuffs, rcgulations were cnforced covoring the
priccs and management of agriculturel lands, forests
and ficlds. Thc Commodity Prico Council and the
Central Price Fixing Conmittcc werc croatcd by an
Imporial Ordinance to regulate priccs of all inportant
commoditics.
Control

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
1
14
一
Control of forcign tradc was very substan-
tially tightoned by tho rcgulations for adjustment
of trado bctweon Japan, "Manchukuo" and China, by the
control of beor cxports to Manchuria and China, by
the revision of the Foroign Exchange Control Ordi-
nance, tho South Scas Trade Adjustment Ordinance, and
the Trado Control Law. A now Taxation System Reform
Law was onforcod spreading texes over a much wider
sogmont of thc population, and inorcasing rates in
the higher brackots. One of thc most far-reaching
ordinanccs vas tho onc restricting the manufacture and
salo of luxury goods - dosigned to curtail unnecessary
oxpendituros, thorcby alloving for more oxtensive
participation by the public in thc absorption of
national bonds. Ordinances werc also promulgated
ordering the compulsory sale of gold to the Government
and instituting control ovcr wages.
During tho year maxinum official pricos
wero fixed on a widc rangc of conmodities, including
raw silk, specicl stcols, barlcy, rye, eggs, footwear,
natchos, toilet articlcs, fortilizcrs, camoras,
stationery, radio rcccivers, weighing apparatus, telo-
phoncs, ctc. Also many itoms such as matches, sugar,
charcoal, ctc., wcre placcd under a rationing system.
FINANCIAL

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.95)
-.15
C
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
National Debt
Indications of strain on tho financial
structure werc much nore pronounced, espccially during
the last half of thc year, than in 1939. The national
debt on December 31, 1940, had mounted to Yen 28,250
:
million - Ycn 6,733 million higher than at the cnd of
1939 and almost threo timos as groat as the
Yen 10,578 million for July, 1937 - the boginning of the
China Incident. This affair alone has ccst Japan over
sixtoen billion yen, has seriously weakoned her entire
econonic structure, has necessitated tho roadjustment
of all industrial, commcrcial, financial and social
activitics, has been the source of many complications
in intornational rolations, and still rencins the
nation's major problom.
Budget and Bonds
Each yoar since 1937 has witnessed a marked
rise in budgctary allot.nents and consoquently bond
issues. The approved Genorel accounts Budgct for tho
1941-42 fiscal year totals Yon 6,863 million, an in-
crease of Yen 763 million over that for the current
yoar, whilc ostinated bond issucs at Yon 1,880 million
aro higher by Yon 2l0 million. Also, a further
cstimated issuc of Yon 517 million has been announced,
bringing tho total under Gcneral Accounts to
Yon 2,397 million. Tho najor portion of tho increase
in allotmonts is military and scmi-military oxponsos,
debt

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.97)
4
r
16
debt service, production capacity expansion, and the
operation of the economic control system. The
amount of extraordinary military expenditures has not
yet been made public, but a conservative estimate is
around Yen 5,000 million against Yen 4,460 million
for this year. Total budget allotments, including
supplementary budgets, will therefore approximate
Yen 13,O00 million, and bond issues will be around
Yen 7,000 million, as compared with Yen 2,278 million
and Yen 684 million respectively for 1936-37.
National bonds issued during 1940 totalled
Yen 6,685 million against Yen 5,28l million in 1939
and Yen 4,330 million in 1938. Sales during the year
reached Yen 5,234 million, a gain of Yen 531 million
over 1939.
. For 1938 the rate of bond digestion was
87.4%, for 1939 89.2, but for 1940 only 78.5%, a
decline of l2% from the previous year. This un-
satisfactory situation arose from the unusually heavy
demand for industrial funds, the prevailing tight
money market, the general decline in business activity,
higher living costs, and the dawning realization that
the nation's economy cannot, under existing pressure,
indefinitely guarantee the service and face value of
these bonds.
Legislation
One of the salient features of financial
trends during the year was the very obvious determina-
tion of the Government to conscript all available funds
for

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
1
for wartime industries and bond absorption. To this
end efforts were made to establish a high degree of
planned financing by the regulation of credit and
bringing under State control all private, corporate
and bank funds. Several important ordinances were
enforced to accelerate this conscription of funds
..
and promote private investments in bonds. Of parti-
cular prominence were: the Corporate Dividend and
Financing Control Ordinance, the Capital Control
Ordinancc, the Corporation Accounting Control Ordi-
nance, the Ordinance Fixing Salaries and Allowances
for Corporate Staff Members, and the Bank Fund
Ordinance. New control legislation cven extended to
cooperative crcdit socicties in the rural districts
whore relatively largc volumes of farmers' funds are
concentrated.
Tax Revenue
Taxes have been revised upward four times
since the beginning of thc China Incident, effecting
an estimated increase in revcnuc of Yen 1,O30 million.
The increase in 1940 was Yon 440 million. For the
first nine months of the current fiscal year revenue
from such tax itoms as business profits, corporate
capital, dividends, debentures and Government bonds,
land, capital interest, tonnage dues, and business
taxos were all substantially lower than for thc corres-
ponding period of 1939, indicative of the decline in
general

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
genoral businoss activity.
Estimated tax receipts for the 194l-42
budget are Yon 3,690 million yen, a risc of Yen 526
million over thosc for thc current year. Up to the
middle of 1940 the lcvcl of internal prosperity had
partially mitigatcd the mounting tax burdcns, but
tho materialization of a goncral economic decline
during the latter half of the year and the strong
probability of it extending throughout l94l, portends
a serious strain on the people. As a matter of fact,
the nation recently has been officially warned that
the time will come hen it will be necessary for the
people to lower their standard of living.
Money Market
The general monetary situation was featured
by a decided scarcity of funds, as evidenced by a
substantial decline in the rate of increase of bank
deposits and an unusually tight money market. Contri-
buting factors were: the urgency of national bond
absorption, the abnormal demand for industrial ex-
pansion funds, smaller Government payments, and the
cautious attitude of business leaders engendered by
i
the uncertain international situation. To alleviate
this paucity of money, Government payments were in-
creased, funds of the Deposits Bureau of the
Ministry of Finance for the first time were pumped
into the market, and the issuance and absorption of
bonds

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
2
19
bonds and debentures was regimented. Indicative of
the augmented demand for industrial funds, bank
loans at the end of the year reached the all time
high figure of Yen 19,095 million, a rise of
Yen 3,489 million or 22% over the end of 1939. Bank
deposits at Yen 31,190 million showed a gain of
Yen 6,098 million or 24, but this expansion was
largely attributable to the exceptionally heavy
Government payments, particularly during December.
Security holdings of banks likewise advanced, the
year-end figure reaching Yen 14,948 million, an in-
crease of Yen 2,639 million or 22% over the end of
the previous year.
The Government's major policy of expanding
productive capacity, higher coamodity and material
prices, pressure from huge national bond financing,
and mounting stocks of unsold merchandise, created
during the year especially the latter half, the
greatost demand for cash in the nation's history.
The averagc daily note issuc of the Bank of Japan
reached the high of Yen 3,336 million, as compared
with Yen 2,374 million during 1939, Yen 1,919 million
during 1938, and Yen 1,535 million during 1937. On
December 31, 1940, circulation mounted to Yen 4,930
million, exceeding the tax free limit by Yen 2,229
million, and the level reached on the corresponding
date of 1939 by Yen 1,1l0 million. Money rates were
considerably

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
considerably higher throughout the July-December
period maintaining the level of 2.555% against the
normal of 2.3725%. Nevcrthcless, year-end settlemonts
were completed without any scrious financial diffi-
culties being encountered.
Doposits Buroau
Postal savings constitutc the bulk of the
Deposits Bureau funds, which, prior to 1940, were
used principally for tho purchase of national bonds
and certain debentures. Howover, during the past year,
with the prevailing tight money market, sluggish
debenture market, and the advance of Yen 1,713 million
registercd by thesc savings to reach a record high
total of Ycn 7,288 million, a considcrable volume was
utilized to ease the moncy market, to take over ad-
vanco payaents by banks for corporate dobentures, and
for thc purchasc of debentures held by security under-
writcrs. Concurrently the Bureau increased its
national bond holdings by somcthing like Yen 1,800
million to Ycn 6,465 million. It is significant that
a decline occurred in the rato of incrcasc in postal
savings as compared with l939, reflecting the lower
degree of intornal prosperity and economic activity.
Bill Clearings
Although busincss activity continucd at a
moderato level during tho year, the incentive was
not

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.98)
L6
21
not paom tho dcgrec of internal prosperity or normal
tranonctions, as was tho casc in l939, but rather
fromithe huge volume of Government disbursoments.
This cas exemplified by the declinc for the first
time ain sevcral yoars in the total number of bill
cleat ngs, which aggregatcd 51,515,000, lower by
0.7% tian for 1939. Therc was an increasc of 23.2%
in tH valuc, which totalled Yen 132,O77 million,
indireive of larger transactions. Of cven greater
imporivince was thc sharp roversal in the trond of
dishcswrcd bills, those cstablishing a rccord high
in nuencr and value for thc past several years. For
the 38st half ycar thc numbcr mounted rapidly, reflect-
ing ua avorablo business conditions, cspecially those
affocteng small and mcdium sized concorns engaged in
the foufacture and sale of machinery, iron and
steelviroducts, in weaving and mining and in those
vocate ns cxtensively disorganizcd by tho anti-
luxur, ordinancc.
ec
Stock
larket
e
Caution and apprchension dominated stock
marke' sentiment, and sharc prices followed a steady
i
se
downw d tendency throughout the year. Thc power
short
o in January, thc anticipated spread of the
Europ n War in april, the tightcning of economic
t
contr
during thc latter part of thc year cspccially
th
that er corporate and bank funds, thc action of
on
the

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.98)
7
22
tho United Statos in placing so many ossential
materials under thc licensc systom, tho evacuation
of Americans from thc Far East, and thc tenseness
of intcrnational rclations all acted as dcterrents
to trading and prico advances. In addition, official
action was taken to curb spcculative buying.
Transactions werc almost 30% less in
November than in January, and tho Tokyo Stock Ex-
change price index dcclincd from 189.2 (1921 - 100)
for January to 152.8 for Novembcr. Tho barometer
stock, Tokyo Exchange New, fell from a high of
Yen 150.70 in January to a 1ow of Yen 101.80 in
October. As a rcsult of the extensivo loss in price
valucs, stock yiclds gained steadily, averaging
Yen 5.40 for January and Yen 6.66 for Novcmber.
Thc
goneral condition of thc stock markets became so
acuto during the second quarter that a special com-
pany, the Japan Securitics and Investment Corporation,
had to bc cstablished to stabilize sharc prices by
purchasing weak sharcs on a downward market for its
own account. Also life insurance companies formed
a Sccuritics Company for thc same purpose. Towards
the year end tho Cabinet was considering a plan to
reform thc ontire stock exchangc system, envisaging
the subjcction of all cxchangos to more stringent
Statc control, also the formation of a much more
powerful sccurities and investment corporation was
being

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.96)
3
being considered.
Foreign Exchango
The grcater paucity of forcign cxchange
was dcmonstratod by the almost complotc stoppage of
the issuance of exchangc pormits for the import of
=
non-military materials, by the more rigid supervision
of all exchangc transactions, and by tho cnforcement
of additional control measurcs. Such pormits as were
being grantcd for the transfer of the increased
frozon Amorican merchandiso funds vere discontinued
in Octobor. All yen-bloc arcas werc brought under
Jepan's cxchange regulations, and a somi-official
agroenent wes reached between tho Yokohama Specie
Bunk and tho Java Bank providing for dircct exchange
transactions between Japan and the Notherlands East
Indics, which will climinate thc amcrican dollar and
British pound modiuns. Yen-storling exchangc rates
fluctuated widely during the carly part of the year,
roaching 1/5d. on May 8th. On May 1lth the Yokohama
Specic Bank stopped thc salc of pound exchange bills.
With tho stabilization of thc Now York-London cross
rate normal ratos again became cffective, but at the
2
end of the year there wes somcthing like Yen 20
million ticd up in unrcdeomed forward pound export
bills contracted for at high rates. Losses on these
bills run to about four million yon. Yon-dollar
rates

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
rates were stoady at 23-7/16ths.
Japan's visible morchandisc import balance
with foreign currency countries for l940 is estimated
at Yen 880 million as compared with Ycn 405 million
for 1939.
Against this higher unfavorablc balance
tho valuo of gold shipments was only 50% of those
for the provious yoar. Reccipts fron invisible pay-
:
ments will likowisc fall far below those for 1939
as a result of thc almost complctc ccssation of
travel, thc dcparture of many foreigners, the cur-
tailment of shipping activitics, and the declinc in
foreign trade. The gold spccie reserve of the Bank
of Japan was reported unchanged throughout the year
at Ycn 5ol million. Endeavors to expedite gold
production worc intcnsified through the adoption of
? premium systen and other mcasures, but gauging
production by shipments it doos not appear that these
efforts met vith any noticcablc degree of success.
A compulsory Gold Purchasc Law was promulgated in
October making it obligatory for all persons to sell
their gold holdings in whatovor form to the Government
at tho fixed price of Yen 3.85 per gram of pure gold
content, but the amount of collections during the
2
year was cvidently not improssive.
Lifo Insurance Companics
Life insurance contracts in force at the
end of Outober roached Yen 29,6ll million against
Yon

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
25
Yen 24,493 million at the cnd of December, 1939.
Insurance companics took a much more active part in
general financing than heretofore for their invest-
monts in various industries at thc end of August,
1940, had roachod Ycn 2,297 million. Furthermore
their stock cxchango purchascs had contributed
materially to the degree of stability shown in share
prices.
Capital Payments
In meeting the year's demands for financing
bonds and industrial expansion more extensive use of
Government funds had to be resorted to. It also be-
came evident from bond holdings that private banking
institutions and the public cannot be relicd upon
to carry tho mounting wartinc oxpenditures. Capital
payments for tho first eleven months reached
Yen 9,98l million, according to the Hypothec Bank,
up Yen 947 million over the end of November, 1939.
Payments for Government and bank bonds were higher by
2.3% and 130% rcspcctively, but corporate debenture
payments fell off 9-1/2%. Stock payments at
Yen 2,142 million rose by Yen 602 million. However,
during tho latter half of the year there was a strong
downward trend in the number of firms applying for
pormits to eithor increasc their capital or establish
now concorns, also in the amounts involved. On the
other hand, applications for permits for mergers have
recently

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
26
recently been on a much larger scale in line with
the new national structure movement.
Govornment Accounts
For the first ninc months of the current
fiscal year (April 1 - December 31, 1940) Govurnment
revcnue totalled Yen 3,O29 million, an increase of
Yon 679 million over the corresponding period of the
previous fiscal year. Tax revenue accounted for
Yen 1,555 million, an increaso of Yen 367 million,
attributed to hcavier reccipts from tho tax on sake,
the cxcise on toxtilcs, the amusement and meal taxes,
income tax, stamp tax, etc. Thcse gains nore than
offsct the losses shown in revenue from the land
tax, businoss profit tax, capital interest tax, cor-
poration capital tax, stock dividend tax, and income
from Government busincss and property. Such losses
were indicative of the lower level of busincss activity.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS AND PRODUCTION
All available indices, both private and
official, indicate a volumc decline in Japan's in-
dustrial output during 1940. It is now evident that
the peak of industrial production was reached during
the summer of 1939, and that there has been a slow
but certcin reccssion since that period - an indi-
cation that Japanese industry is slowly dcteriorating
under

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
27
under the continual strain of the protracted struggle
in China. Heavy industries wcre particularly handi-
capped by material shortagos whilc the reduced out-
put of consumcrs' goods was due to thc falling off
of the export trade and the increasing restrictions
placcd on the sale of goods for thc domestic market.
The cxtent to which industrial production
dcclincd during tho past year is reflected in the
official indiccs compilcd by thc Ministry of Commerce
and Industry which are based on tho actual output of
a wido range of import commoditics. The general index
for thc first cight lonths averaged 174.5 (1931-33 -
100), in contrast to 181.0 during thc corresponding
1939 period, a decline of 3.6%. The manufacturing
index fel1 from 183.7 to 175.5, a 4.5% drop, but the
mining index advanced fron 162.3 to 166.9, a 2.8%
risc. A compositc indox covcring activity in the
machincry, iron and stccl, and clcctric power in-
dustrics was 1.9% lower than in the previous year,
the industrial chemical index fell by 6.2%, the tex-
tile index by 6.3%, and all other industries by
13.8% cxcept the gas by-products industry which re-
gistored a 7.7% gain.
Thc actual production figures for the
first cight months showcd a 13.0% drop in cotton
yarn production, a 28.3% decline in silk yarn output,
and a 3.2% drop in rayon yarn production. Cotton
textile production fell by 19.3%, silk textile pro-
duction

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
28..!
duction increased by 22.8%, and rayon textile pro-
duction declined by 39.5%. (Figures on cotton, silk,
and rayon textile production cover the output of
broad widths only). Cement output was down sharply
by 22.2%, sulphate of ammonia by 4.8%, and paper by
2.3%. Wheat flour productkon was up by 2.0%, but
refined sugar output vwas 28.7% lower than in the
corresponding pcriod of last ycar. Inasmuch as
manufacturing conditions during the last four months
of the year wore much more unfavorable than those pre-
vailing during the January-August pcriod, it is cvi-
dent that industrial output for the yoar was consi-
derably lower than thc above statistics indicate.
The principal factors responsible for the
volumc decline in industrial production during 1940
were prinarily the same as these which retarded the
output during the previous year, nancly, shortages
of skillcd labor, matorials, fuel and clectric power.
If anything, the naterial shortages became intonsi-
fied during 1940 duc to the rise in thc landed cost
of many itons and thc conscquent necessity of making
reduced purchascs with the limited volume of foreign
exchange available; to the embargocs and licensing
systoms imposed by various countrics which had
formorly been supplying Japan with vital materials;
and to the difficulty cxporicnced in obtaining
matorials fron tho scmi-official distributing agoncies
which

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
which wore established during the year. Frequent
reports were heard of heavy industrial equipment,
imported from abroad at great expense, being stored
for nonths and months, due t the inability of fac-
tories t securc catcrials for tho construction of
new plants.
One of the most important developments of
the year was the official plan announced for the re-
organization of thc nation's industrics in line with
the new cconomic and political structure which in
briof provides for the ovontual abolishment of the
libcralistic principlc of the employment of capital
for profit in favor of the totalitarian principle
that capital should be cmployed for the good of the
State. Undcr this plan, industries will be required
to effoct mergers and forn a linited number of effi-
cient production units which will cbtain the maximun
results fron the labor and matcrials availablc.
Definite stops wcro made in this diroction towards the
close of thc year when thc cotton spinning and arti-
ficial fiber industrics wcre ordored to take steps
to effect consolidations. Tho industrial nachinery
industry appeared thc ncxt in linc for thc rationaliza-
i
tion procoss and the sane movo is anticipated in
other industrics during 1941.
The rationalization movenent and the anti-
luxury lcgislation of July 7, 1940, forced many small
and modiun sized manufacturing cstablishmonts to
liquidate

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.97)
a
.-.30
liquidate during the past year with the rosult that
thouscnds of pcrsons were thrown sut of employment
and numerous firns wore in financial difficulties.
Tho distress causod by the Governrnent's policies
created a scrious cconomic problen which was receiv-
ing the attontion of the various Ministries concerned
at the end of the year. Anong the plans advanced for
tho reliof of industrialists who have been forced to
discontinue their activitics the foromost was a scheme
to transfer their plants to Manchuria, and the cxten-
sion of financial and tochnical aid to cnable them
t) ongage in somc other line f activity.
Towards tho close of the year, the Govornnent
announced an anbitious ton-year economic program for
the rcalization of the "Now Ordcr in East Asia". Tho
industrial phase of the program providos for tho con-
contration of hcavy incustrial dcvelopnent in Japan
and the gradual transfer of all light nanufacturing
ontcrpriscs to tho Continent. Basically the plan
diffcrs littlc from the threo-yecr industrial expan-
sion progrann for the yen bloc which was announced
during the carly part of 1939. Tho announcomont of
the now ten-year progran without reference to the
provious thrce-year plan is regarded as a virtual
admission of the failuro of tho lattor.
The continucd firmnoss of the money market
during the last half of 1940 wcs responsiblc for the
failure of a number of inportant inaustrial conccrns
to

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.97)
.-.3i
2
to sccure funds for oxpansion, as only thosc produc-
ing tho most vital materials wcre pernitted to inorease
their facilities.
COTTON SPINNING AND WEAVING INDUSTRY
All available statistics indicatc that the
Japanese cotton spinning and weaving industry operated
on a vory nuch reduccd basis during 1940, the decline
fro. the relatively high level of activity which pre-
vailed during tho previous year being tho result of
tho slump in cloth shipments t, forcign narkots.
This was prinarily duc to the spread of the European
hostilitics and conscqucnt inaccessibility of certain
markcts, the intcnsification of cxchange and import
restrictions by thc worring nations and their over-
scas possossions, nd to the ver-stocked condition
of cortain narkcts ns the rcsult of heavy spoculative
purchasos mado during the latter part of 1939. As a
conscquence of the falling off of sales to foreign
currency narkets there was an accunulation of excessive
cloth stocks in Japan, and a decline in avcrage ex-
port prices. Voluntary rostrictions on yarn produc-
tion and the strengthening of autononous control
over forcign salcs failed to bring about any matorial
improvemont in the general status of tho industry
and at tho close of the year there was a definite
novenent for the complcte reorganization of all phases
of the cotton incustry and trado. Whilo such a re-
organization

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
32
organization plan was advanced as part of the general
scheme under the new economic structure, a definite
feeling prevailed among some of the leading members
of the industry that there was a. need for drastic re-
forms in order to maintain a competitive position
under present world conditions.
The plans for the reorganization of the
textile industry and trade include: (l) the rationa-
lization of production through the establishment of
a limited number of large-scale production units,
and (2) the concentration of the raw cotton import
trade in the hands of a single control organization
which will in turn designate a limited number of
firms to meke the actual purchases. The scheme to
restrict the output of yarn provides for the merger
of the 77 existing members of the Cotton Spinners'
Association into twelve blocs having a minimum
number of 500,000 spindles. This will climinate
many small-scale establishments as 67.6% of the
members of the association wcre firms operating less
than l00,000 spindles. Control will be exercised
through a Central Council consisting of representa-
tives of the various production blocs. At the close
of the year it appeared that the plans providing for
tho merger of Japanese cotton spinning interests
would definitely materialize during the early part
of 1941.
Some opposition had developed at the close
of

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
of l1940 to the proposal to unify future raw cotton
imports; the move naturally meeting resistance from
the small cotton importers who would be forced out of
business by the plan. Thc spinning interests ex-
pressed disapproval on the grounds that a single
control firm could not assure tho low cotton prices
which arc possible in thc open and competitive mar-
ket which now prevails. According to the plan ad-
vanccd, a Japan Cotton Control Company would be
established and would in turn designate twelve to
fifteen firms to act as exclusive importers. Such
action would climinate approximately fifty firms which
are now active members of the Japan Cotton Merchants'
Union.
Total cotton cloth shipmonts for the first
nine months of 1940, the latcst period for which de-
tails are availablc, amounted to 1,373,820,414 square
yards valucd at Yon 288,962,681, a 22.1% volume de-
cline but a 0.4,6 valuc increase ovor shipments dur-
ing thc same period of 1939. No details arc available
conccrning the countries of destination of cloth
shipments. Agreements covcring cotton toxtilc ship-
ments to British India, the Philippine Islands and
the United States were rcncwcd during 1940.
Reflecting tho dccrcascd activity in the
cotton spinning end wcaving industry during the past
year, tho Cabinet Burcau of Statistics' employment
indiccs show a 6.1% dccline betweon Scptomber 1939
and

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
34
and September 1940. Contrary to the trend shown in
most industries, there was a 9.3% increase in cmploy-
ment in small-scale entcrpriscs (employing less than
50 peoplc), and an 8.3% drop in cmployment in the
largor undcrtakings.
During the past year the Japanesc cotton
spinning and weaving industry was an important con-
sumer of American cotton but the prospects for the
sale of the Amcrican product to Japan during the 1941
scason are not bright. Whercas imports of American
cotton reached almost 900,000 bales during the last
cotton year onding July 31, 1940, or about 40% of
the total, it is reliably estimated that the 1940-41
takings will not amount to more than 250,000 to
300,000 bales. While Amcrican cotton is bcing dis-
placcd by Brazilian and Indian growths, total con-
sumption of all types this yoar is oxpected to fall
far below that for the previous cotton year.
IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRY
Operating conditions wcrc anything but
favorable in thc Japanese iron and stcel industry dur-
ing 1940, and tho volumo of production was undoubtedly
below the level of thc previous year. Factors res-
2
ponsible for thc reduced output included acute power
and fuel shortages during the first quarter of 1940,
and to a lcssor degrec, during the closing months of
tho yoar; a sharp decline in the volume of scrap
iron imports during the greater part of the year as a
result

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
a
8
result of thc scarcity of forcign oxchange, and the
virtual ccssation of imports aftor thc introduction
of the liccnsing system by thc United States on
October 15; tho poorer quality of scrap available;
and reduced arrivals of pig iron and iron ore from
British India and British Malaya as a result of a
dearth of shipping facilitics and cxport restrictions.
Producers of iron and steel endcavored to
obtain Government permission to raise priccs to more
remuncrativo lcvels in order to compensate for the
higher production costs and declining profit rates,
but such action was strcnuously opposed by tho military
authoritics. After becoming a national political
issue, c compromisc was finally reached when the
Government agreed to compensatc the mombers of the
industry for the higher cost of importcd raw materials
by thc granting of official subsidics. These wcre
distributed through the Japan Iron and Sseel R:w
Matcrials Controlling Company which wcs stablished in
July under the authority of the National Gcneral
Mobilization Act.
Throughout the year the industry was sub-
jected to intonsificd official rogulation and control
with thc object of obtaining the maximum efficiency
from tho limited supplics of raw materials available.
In March regulations were enforccd to authorize the
Ministry of Comorce and Industry to ostablish in-
dividual

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
dividual production allotments for various types of
iron and stecl materials. The various steel matcrials
sales guilds wore also merged at the same time in
order to onable more unified control over the dis-
tribution of goods for domestic consumption. A plan
calling for wholesalc mergers in thc industry was dis-
cussed during the closing months of the year and
although no definito action was takon along this line
it is obvious that the iron and stecl industry of
Japan is duc for drastic reorganization under the
now cconomic policy. Thc inefficicnt mills will be
abandoned and the industry reorganizcd on a basis of
efficient production units. Thcre is admittedly need
for such action in Japan as tradc and official survcys
have shown, for examplc, that by far the majority
of spccial stcol firms are producing goods of inferior
quality.
Employment in tlic iron and stccl industry
incrcascd by 6.3% during the yoar cnding Soptember
1940, according to the published indiccs of thc Cabinct
Burcau of Statistics. Thcsc incices reflcct the
changes which took place in the industry during the
yoar, namely, tho restrictions placed on the activities
of small-scale establishments and thc oventual shifting
of theso workcrs to the largor firms. The official
indiccs show thct during Scptcmber 1940, cmployment
in metal manufacturing concerns cmploying less than
50 workers was approximatcly 32% below the level
of tho corresponding month of the provious year, while
employmont

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.97)
a
37
omployment in the plants cmploying over 50 workers
increased by 8.3%.
By far tho greatest problem facing the in-
dustry at the end of tho year was that of finding a
solution to the problem creatcd by the licensing of
scrap iron shipments from the United States. Dcspite
the optimistic commcnts of leaders of the industry
and various officials, thc shortagc of scrap iron is
oxpcctcd to drastically curtail stcel mill operations
during thc coming yoar. The Governmcnt ordered a re-
duction in thc quantity of scrap for consumption in
flat furnaces from 47% to 42%, and all production
quotas for stcel ingots and somi-finished goods were
reduced by 5% during the last quarter in order to con-
scrvo cxisting stocks. Sincc the supply of domcstic
scrap is loss than one-fourth of the volumc required
for the flat furnaccs alone, which produce about one-
third of tho nation's stcel output, various cfforts
were being made at the ond of the ycar to operate on
reduccd scrap rations. Thcse cfforts included the
utilization of tho low grade domestic ores and iron
sand, the dovclopment of furnaccs dosigncd to produce
stcel direct fron pig iron, tho usc of smaller quan-
titics of scrap in flat furnace operations, and thc cx-
ploitation of the iron rcsources of North China.
EMPLOYMENT

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
EMPLOYMENT AND WAGES
Thero was a pcrceptible decline in the in-
crease in the rato of employment in Japanese industries
during thc past year. Wherecs there was an approxi-
mate gain of 10% in cmploymont during thc first nine
months of 1939, thcre was only a 2.4% increase be-
tween Scptember 1939 cnd Soptember 1940. During the
samc period employment in the toxtilc industry fell
by 6.1%, and a 7.9% decline occurred in the paper in-
dustry, according to thc indiccs of thc C binct
Burcau of Statistics. Thc foodstuffs industry re-
gistered a fractional gain, but tho motal, machine
tool and chomical industries showed increases of 6.3%,
12.3%, and 2.5; rospcctively. Most of the employees
addod to factory payrolls during tho past year were
ongaged by thc large-scale cnterprisos, i.e., those
having morc than 50 workors.
Average wage ratcs were 8.2,; higher during
the first nine months f 1940 than during the corres-
ponding pcriod of 1939, according to thc published in-
dices of tho Bank of Japan. Actual income rose as a
result of longer working hours, thc increase over the
provious year amounting to l0.ls. Both wage ratos
and carned income werc significantly bclow the rise
in living costs of thc working class, which amounted
to 18.3%, according to the official figures of tho
Cabinct Burcau of Statistics.
COMMODITY

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
39
COMMODITY PRICES AND LIVING COSTS
At thc beginning of 1940 it was obvious that
the question of checking the upward trend of commodity
pricos and living costs was one of the outstanding
economic problems facing thc Japanese nation, since
tho marked rises subsequent to the outbreak of the
China Incident in July 1937 wcre definitcly responsible
for higher production costs in industry and a general
loworing of the standard of living of the masses.
To thcir credit it must be said that the cuthorities
spared no offorts in their detcrmination to halt the
upward movoment, and some dcgree of succoss was
noted in the ficld of retail prices and living costs.
Obviously no dogrcc of control instituted in Japan
could chcck tho rising costs of thc vital forcign
raw materials required by thc defensc industrics, but
producers wcro componsated for the higher costs of
the materials requircd by the iron and steel industry
by official subsidigs. Subsidics werc also granted
to prevont increasing production costs being passed
on to consumers of coal and matches.
Price control was cxerciscd through the
medium of two new agencios during the groater part of
the ycar. Tho Central Pricc Conmittee which had been
organized in April 1938 was abolished during March
amd a Pricc Policy Council under tho Cabinct, and a
Central Pricc Formation Conmittec under the direction
of thc Minister of Commerce & Industry werc cstablishod.
Official prices were fixed for hundreds of commodities -
evcry

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
every item of any importancc in the nation's whole-
sale or retail trade being subjcct to investigation
by tho Central Price Formation Conmittee.
According to the wholesale price indices
of the Bank of Japan, based on quotations prevailing
in Tokys, average prices during the first cleven
months of 1940 wero 13.3% higher than during the
corrosponding poriod of the previous year, although
thc November index of 310.7 (October 1900 - 100) was
2.8% below thc record lcvcl of 319.9 which was es-
tablished during January 1940. There was a definite
downward trend in wholesale prices from the beginning
of 1940 until August but fractional gains were re-
gistcred during the closing months of the year - a
development attributed morc to export trade prospccts
than to the official prico control measures.
Retail prices increascd to an oven greater
degrce, according to the Bank of Japan's surveys, the
avoragc for 1940 bcing 17.3; abovc tho 1939 levol.
Retail prices advanccd rapidly during the first seven
months, the indox rising from 247.4 (July 1914 - 100)
in January to a record level of 266.5 in July.
Folloving tho advent of the Konoye Cabinet, however,
the price problem was mct with determination and
severe penalties were established for offenders of
the price control rogulations, with the result that
tho retail index fell to 259.7 by thc end of the year.
The averago wholcsalo and retail pricc in-
dices

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.98)
41
dices of the Bank of Japan for the first eleven months
of 1940 indicate that the former have risen by 30.0%
and thc lattcr by 50.5% since the outbreak of the
China Incident.
Thc rise in living costs during 1940 is
indicated by thc official figures of the Cabinct
Bureau of Statistics. Thesc show that living costs
for salaricd workers were an average of 17.4% higher
during the ycar than during 1939, whilc the gain for
the laboring class was even higher - anounting to
18.3,6.
. The indiccs for both groups reachod record
lcvols in August when the salaricd class index stood
at 147.5 (July 1937 - 100) and the laboring class
index at 150.0. By D: ccmber tho former had dropped
to 141.6 and tho 1attcr to 144.4.
AGRICULTURE
The extcnsion of Stato control over agri-
culture was onc of tho most important cconomic develop-
ments during the past yoar. Govcrnment measures regu-
lating the production, distribution and prices of
agricultural products, and logislation dealing with
farmlands and forests wcre undoubtedly influenced in
part by extensive intcrpellations in the l940 session
of the Diet vith regard to those qucstions. These
intorpellations arosc fron widesprcad dissatisfaction
among the poople concorning tho failure of the autho-
ritics to take stcps to alleviate sone of the outstand-
ing

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.97)
42
7
ing probloms of thc rural population.
Although a considorable volume of farm
control lcgislation was put into cffect during l940,
no satisfactory solution was found for the shortage
of fertilizers, farm imploments and labor, or for the
problems relating to agricultural financc which have
troubled farmers for many years. The advanteges which
tho rural population gained from higher prices for
farm products in l939 failcd to continuc through the
past year, owing to the establishment of maximum
official prices for all types of commoditics, fre-
quently at lovels lower than the former prevailing
ratc.
Extensivo Government plans for an increase
in agricultural production during l940 wcrc un-
successful, due to a large extent to thc lack of
fortilizers, materials and labor, and inefficient
distribution. Although no complcte statistics show-
ing the 1940 agricultural production aro available,
it is cstincted that the output of the leading crops,
which comprise 76,; by valuo of the total farm and
dairy production, dcclincd approximatoly 8.4,o as com-
pared with tho provious year. Plans have already
been projected for a substantial increase in the out-
put of ccrtain crops during l94l, but the same limit-
ing factors will undoubtedly prevail, so no impressive
rosults are to be oxpocted.
RAW

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
43
RAW SILK
Conditions during 1940 presented a sharp
contrast to the high prices nd strong foreign demand
prevailing in 1939. During January quotations for
13/15 denicr whitc D-grade dropped from Yon 2,410
per bale to Yen 1,650 per bale. After this abrupt
decline, prices movcd slowly dowmward during the
first six months until they reached a low level of
Yen 1,350 per balc, the price at which Government pur-
chases were madc in ordor to stabilize quotations.
Extensive official purchases throughout the roneinder
of tho yoar preventcd further declines, but, with the
excoption of a few sporadic gains, prices failcd to
rise above this lcvel. The tutal Governnent purchases
for tho ycar crc reportcd to have boon about 1oo,000
balcs.
Japan's total cxports of raw silk during
1940 are cstimated at 289,382 bales, a declinc of 25%
as comparcd vith the previous year. The value of these
shipnonts has not beon made public, but, according to
the official trado roturns, the dccline in value was
only 6% for the first nine months. The percentage
for the full yoar, howover, is believed to have been
larger in viow of the disparity between 1939 and 1940
qustations for tho last quarter. Shipuents to the
United States, which accountcd for tho bulk of tho
trade, wcro cstimatcd at 254,810 bales, a decreasc of
23.1% compared with the previous year. The decline
in cxports to other countries was considerably higher,
owing

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
owing largely to the difficulty in making shipments
to European countries, of which Great Britain and
France are the most important markets.
The existing depression in the raw silk
industry has been due primarily to the diminished
demands of American importers. Official measures,
however, have also played an important part in de-
pressing the market. Government price and distribu-
tion control, which was instituted early in the year,
caused a substantial curtailment of domestic purchases.
The industry received a further blow in July, when
anti-luxury legislation prohibited domestic sales of
high grade silk textiles. Plans to assist sales by
enforced mixing of silk and staple fiber for local
consumption were projected but later abandoned, and up
to the end of the year no really constructive steps
were taken to aid raw silk sales.
The 1940 cocoon crops amounted to approxi-
mately 87,500,000 kan (one kan equals approximately
8.267 pounds), a decline of 3.6,; fro.1 the previous
year according to the official estimctes. This
figure represents a considerable increase over earlier
calculations.
A bill providing for Government control of
the cntire silk industry will be introduced some time
during the present session of the Diet. This measure
is expected to provide for complete control of the
domestic trade which may lead to indirect restric-
tions

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
tions on exporters. The latter point has evoked
numerous protests and the actual extent of control
which the Government plans to exercise over shipments
is not yet clear.
RICE
The 1939 rice harvest in Japan Proper was
officially estimated at over 348,000,000 bushels, but
well qualified observers placod the actual crop at a
considerably lower figure. Duc to an unusually poor
harvost in Chosen, arrivals fron the colonies fell
substantially below normal cxpectations. Moreover the
carry-over from the previous crop was the lowest in
many years.
Failure to takc satisfactory measures to
offset these conditions was one of the primary causes
of the collapsc of the Cabinet in January 1940.
Since that time nunerous official steps have buen
taken to insure tho peoplo against a serious shortage.
Purchases of rice fron China and Southcastern Asia
are belicved to have amounted to between 51,00o,000
and 66,000,000 bushels. Efforts have been made to
reduco domestic consumption by encouraging the use of
such substitutes as bread, noodles, potatocs and beans,
and by official mcasurcs to enforce the usc of a
mixture of foreign rice and doncstic rice during the
first half of the year, and of rice and barley during
the latter part. Further curtailmcnts have also been
offocted in the production of Japanese rice wine.
Local

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.98)
.-.46
Local rationing systoms havo been established in
various parts of the country, and it is anticipated
that a nationwido tickct systcm will come into force
during 1941.
In addition to these mcasures Government
regulations cnforced during 1940 have rosulted in
official control of supply and distribution of rice.
Farmcrs are forced to sell all of the harvest to
certain authorizcd purchasers at a fixed price, with
the oxception of a small allowance for their own usc.
Fron the farmer to the retailer the supply and dis-
tribution is completely under the control of the
Government.
Various plans to increase the rice crop
have been projected, but no satisfactory solution to
tho shortage of fertilizers and labor has been found.
Thc final cstimatc for the 1940 harvest places the
total yield for Japan Propor at approximately
310,000,000 bushcls, a decline of 11.7; from the 1939
official estimate and of 6.6% from the average of the
preceding five years. The Taiwan crop was seriously
affected by insect pests and bad weather conditions,
but the Chosen harvest, altiough below normal, was
far above the 1939 yield.
It is expected that fairly extensive imports
of foreign rice will again be necessary in l94l. As
a matter of fact arrangoments have already been made
to acquire 700,000 tons from Frcnch Indo-China on a
barter

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
barter or long term paymcnt basis. In spite of
official plans for a very large expansion of the
acreage to be devoted to grain crops hereafter, many
well qualified observers are of the opinion that
Japan is destined to continuc largely dependent on
importcd ricc.
FOREIGN TRADE
Although both exports and imports increased
in valuc during 1940 as comparcd with the preceding
year, forcign trade conditions were by no mcans satis-
factory. Thc cotton textile trado failed to recover
from the depression which has prevailed for several
years and exports of raw silk and canned goods dropped
far below the 1939 figures. As a rosult, warehouse
stocks of these co modities have roached unpreccdentedly
high levels. Thc shortago of ships arising from the
withdrawal of vessels belonging to the belligerents has
also had an advcrse cffcct on tho trade. Concrete
efforts to cstablish now markets for Japanese products,
however, have apparently been fairly succcssful in
Latin A terica and other arcas, due to the disappearance
of competitive Gorman morchandise.
The publication of detailed foreign trade
statistics was officially prohibited from October 16,
1940. However, the 1940 total for the Japanesc Eapire
has been officially announccd at Ycn 7,681,000,000,
reprosenting a gain of 8.8% ovor the provious ycar and
setting a new all timc high record. Exports reached
Yen

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.97)
D
Yen 3,972,000,000 and imports Yon 3,709,000,000, the
former increasing 1% and the latter 18.6% ns compared
with 1939. Although shipmcnts wcre the heaviest on
record, arrivals fell short of thc 1937 peak. The
balancc of excess exports was only Yen 263,000,000,
a substantial decline of 67.4, from the proceding year.
:
No statistics showing the forcign trade of
Japan Proper for the full year are available. Data
for the first nine months ive the total at
Yon 5,235,000,000, a gain of 13.4, as compared with
the corresponding period of thc previous year. Ex-
ports amounted to Yen 2,743,000,000 and imports were
Yen 2,492,000,000, reprosenting advances of 11.8% and
15.3,s rospectively. Th: balance of excess exports
totalled Yen 251,000,000, a dccline of 14.3%.
In spito of rostrictive measures applied to
many products, the importance of the ycn bloc area as
an outlct for Japanese goods continued to increase
with thc shipments during the January- Septcmber pcriod
amounting to 53.3.; of thc total oxport trade as com-
pared with 50.2% for the first nine months of 1939.
Exports to forcign currency countries gained only 4.7%.
Imports from the yen bloc arca and from foreign
1
currcncy countrics both registered advances, the
former showing a gain of 13.5% and tho latter a rise
of 15.9%. Of considerable importance to Japan's
cconomy is tho fact thet the cxcess balance of imports
from foreign currency countries during tho first nine
months

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
49
months amounted to Yon 640,000,000, a sharp advance
of 47.1% over thc corresponding period of l939.
The principal commodity increases in Japan's
oxport trade occurrcd in shipmonts of marine products,
rayon yarn, porcelain, iron manufactures, automotive
7
products and machinery. Thesc gains, however, were
largcly offsct by heavy declines in raw silk, canned
goods, tea, lumber and vogetablc oil. Imports of oil
yiclding materials, crude sulphatc of ammonia, cotton,
wool, coal and pulp all registorcd notable gains, but
arrivals of beans and peas dropped below the 1939
level due to a shortage of vailablo supplics from
Monchuria.
Imports from the Urited States during the
first ninc months increased about 6% in valuc over the
same period of 1939, while exports maintained approxi-
mately thc same lcvel. Arrivals of raw cotton, cer-
tain steel products, wood pulp and tinplatc all
rogistered large gains, but imports of scrap iron,
lead, aluminum and automotive products wcre lower.
There were substantial declincs of 28% in volume and
5% in valuc in shipments of raw silk to thc United
States, but exports of canned crab and various mis-
cellancous itens were heavy cnough to substantially
offset this loss.
In an cffort to roplacc the loss of
European markets owing to the prosent hostilities, the
authorities instituted numcrous measurcs intended to
improve

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
7
-.50
improve tho trade with other forcign currency markets,
particularly South and Central America. During the
course of thc ycar a number of semi-official companies
have been formed which control tho trade in itoms of
importanco in the oxport business. These firms do
.not actually engage in foreign trado in most cases
but are organized to insuro  smooth flow of commodities
into the hands of exporters. On December 23rd a
measurc providing for the control of distribution of
export goods and raw matcrials for thoir production
was promulgated. This legislation gives broad powers
to the above-mentioned semi-official firms and is
apparontly designed to mobilize all cvailable resources
for the improvement of the export trade. It also pro-
vides for incroased export subsidics, more extensive
State rcinsurance and a rovision in the cxchange con-
trol system. The latter is designcd to mitigate
losses resulting from frozon crodits in foreign
countrics and to oncourage a morc cxtensive usc of
the yen in tho settlument of intcrnational accounts.
OUTLOOK FOR 1941
The trend of Japan's economy, not only for
1941, but for many yoars to come, dcpends alaost en-
tirely on the outcomo of the European War. Certain
progross has been madc toward tho realization of the
two major objectivos: the ostablishment of a highly
organized national dofense system, and the creation
of

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.95)
4
，
51
1
of a Greator East Asia Co-prospcrity Spherc. Vast
preparations for a more cxtensive war are now underway.
All resources of this country, China and Manchuria
are being mobilizcd, production of war materials and.
supplios is being spccded up, labor is bcing regimented
and re-allocated, financial resourccs aro being con-
scripted, foodstuffs cre boing proserved and legisla-
tion enacted giving the Government sweeping powcrs over
all nattors pertaining to national defense. Those
efforts arc being strongly supported by a largc
majority of the Japaneso peoplc notwithstanding the
hardships and deprivations they cnvisage and those
already being suffered fron the four year ombroilment
in thc war with China.
A cortain degrce of success has been
achieved in the establishment of the Greater East Asia
Co-prospcrity Sphcrc with the subjugation of a good
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
part of French Indo-China and thc improvoment of rola-
tions with Thailand, but actual concummation of this
grandiosc scheno dopends cntirely upon the aature and
scope of intorfcrencc offcred by the United tates and
Groat Britain. On this onc issuu rests the dostiny
of Japan. Any attempt to forccast tho trond of
devclopnents during tho coming yoar, thoreforc, must
bo profaccd by an emphatic "If-Japan-Is-Not-Drawn-
Rogardless of whother Japan becomos embroiled
in the European War, her genoral cconomy during 1941
must

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
52
must inevitably continuc tho recessionary trend which
prevailed during 1940. Demands on industrial produc-
tion will certainly be intensified, as will the
difficultics to be cncountcred in sccuring adequate
supplies of raw m tcrials, labor, coal and clectric
power. The vanishmant of the United States as a
reservoir of essontial mcterials will lcave a wide
gap in tho supply and demand position, one impossible
of bridging by shuffling sources of supply. Stocks
on hand are an cnigma, but it is believed that these
represent a very limited quantity. With the declining
cfficiency of transportation facilities, perticularly
shipping, it will be incrensingly difficult to obtain
dclivery of even t.e limited volume of materials
availablc in Manchuria, China and French Indo-China.
A greator stringency must, therefore, clso bo excrcised
in the supply of civilian dcmands, with even further
curtailmont of dcily neccssitics.
From a financial standpoint the strain of
national bond absorption will be folt more acutely
than herotofore for business profits will decline,
commodity prices will advancc, production costs risc,
and living exponses mount to rccord levels.
Numorous
mothods will bo employed to augnent national savings
and to nore conplctely concentrate all financial
resources in thc hands of the Government. Forcign
exchangc will be more rigidly controlled but money
will be of secondary importance for this is the era
of

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.97)
53
一
of commodities, not money. Continued tension will
most likely prevail in the moncy market from loss of
equilibrium between tho supply and demand of capital.
All financial institutions will become further
weakened from the surfcit of national bond holdings,
and tho nation vill bc drawn several steps nearer
to the brink of financial disaster.
However, no actual
collapse is anticipatcd during 1941.
Japan's intcrnational relations are very
problcmatical for if all international diplomacy is
to bo governcd by Axis motives, relations with many
countries, tho United Statos in particular, are fraught
with much dangor. Commcrciel relations thcrefore will
bc scriously iapaired, and foreign trade with dollar
and sterling areas notably reduced in spite of the
sore necd for essential matcrials. T. offset this
loss in trade the military vill attempt to squceze
more goods out of China and French Indo-Crina, greater
pressure will bc brought to bear on thc Nethorlands
East Indics and other prospective sogaents of the
Co-prosperity Sphcre, and larger usos made of synthetic
products. Also, a more oxtonsive utilization of the
yen in the sottlonont of intcrnational accounts will
be attompted to case the prcssure on foreign exchange
balances. Export trado with other aroas will be
vigorously pursued through compensatory trade agrce-
ments and tho barter systom to insure the largost
possible quantities of imports of essential goods.
Ncvertheless

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
54
Nevortholoss, a sharp drop in both cxports and imports
is expocted.
A furthor aggravation in agricultural con-
ditions is cxpccted due to more pronounced shortages of
fertilizers, labor, farm inploments and farm animals
despite the official mcasures instituted to augnent
supplies and the oxtension of 3tate control over dis-
tribution and consumption of farm products. No op-
timism is warranted for incroascd grain production,
and the putlook for thc raw silk industry is cxtremely
gloomy as this product is faccd with the probablc loss
of its chief markct and main source of rovcnue. The
Government's pricc fixing policy precludes all possi-
bilitics of any broad advance in agricultural prices
or lands. Farm inconc, therefore, will show little
improvomont, financial problens will be intensified,
and living conditions will grow worse. Furthermore,
the national bond absorption progran calls for more
positive participation in bond purchascs by thc rural
population. Despito this ciscouraging picture the
actual living conditions of tho farming classes will
not be as adversely affccted by thc repercussions of
tho China Incident and the Europcan Hur as those of
the urban population.
NOT FOR PUBLICATION
Finally, a word of varning. Admittodly
Japan is faccd with desporatc cconomic, financial,
commercial, political and social problcms, the solu-
tion of which is largely in the hands of idealists
and

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
-55
and military opportunists. Sho is following very
closely in tho stops of Germany and making almost all
the cconomic mistakes Germany made in the World War
of 1914-18. She has yicldcd to the dangers of con-
trolled cconomy, has cxposed herself to cconomic and
military pressurc from thc Unitod States and Great
a
Britain, has assumed tho responsibility for the de-
fiant isolation of East Asia, and has cast her destiny
in with that of Gernany. In overy respect the nation
is woaker today than shc was before the advent of
the China Incidont. Therc are many indications of
the disintegration of cconomic, financial and social
structures, but thero are not sufficient signs to
warrant a definite statenont that an immcdiate
collapse is inevitable. On the ther hand, no nation
who can boast of the untiring, rosourccful and abundant
cnorgy, the proud and indomitablc spirit which s
charactorize the Japanese pcople, will shrink or quail
from threats or intimidations!
Japan's salv tion in 1940 was Germany's
success and the collapse of France, which enabled
Japan to obtain urgently required supplies, cspecially
ricc, from Fronch Indo-China. For 194l, her stako
is in the Notherlands East Indies and in thc bargaining
power of those vital naterials, such as tin and
rubber obtcinablc thcre and absolutoly ossential to
the cconomic and defense programs of the United States.
FSW/DSW/DWL/mp
File No. O2O(D)

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.90)
CHARGE SLP
86.00894.50
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
Remarks
240 DCRW maeger
9/14/43 D9
with rimo of 2pt 13
1241
faom fc(mifg
1242
7243
1244
DCR/W eew10/n
155
Repht+136
U.S. GOVENENT PRINTING FFICE 1-1483

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.92)
大
R.ECETVED
JAN1
VS
JA1.19
DEPARTMENT OF S
ECONDMIC INTERESTS -6.6.41
AND RECORDS
ItemNo. 99
"Curt Gestefeld, Mexico D.P., informs
Bergmann & Co., Kobe, that there is no sale for their
toys as most clients went to have noth ing to do with
Japan. Tis is because the Japanese firms in Mexico
first sell to import agents and then import and sell
on their own account those goods which their import
agents have proved to be worth while. Dibaco are
willing to buy metre measuring tapes but at a very
low price as much better ones can be obtained from
Switzerland."
JAN121942

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
2/14/42
There aretranamie with t
h accirpatioral distribution q la bor
gopanl which is stailh a rummary.
bongiating g tevo Tables  yan way fwish
glanced ah thum) and one on Faod
Ratroining in Jopan.
The ratroving does noh sreen ah
all seaere, and the Conclusin is
seef- suffient for at teast three years.
Jm
Assistant Secretary
MR. ACHESON

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 2416
London, December 23, 1941
Byrision on
BY AIR MAIL
FAR EASTERN AFFATRS
11942
Subject:
Forwardin material From the Ministry
of Economic arfare relating to Japan.
894.50
STRICTLY CUNFIDENTIAL
0
311942
DCA
01
Recording Desk
8
File-J.P.F.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMERCIAL, AFRAIRS
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
FCB 17 1942
TED -8 1942
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
WFEB 20 1942 HF
DIVISION OF EXPORTS
ANDS AID
DEP
RICTLY CCIFIDETIAL
Cagy to B.S.W.
The Honorable,
infree
The Secretar of State,
Washington.
Cpytom.Whte 
3
Sir:
89420 274
I have the honor to rer'er to the Embassy's Despatch
FFB 6
No. 2195, Jovember 27, 1941, with regard to a study of
the Japanese economic and industrial position whioh had
been begun by the Enemy Resources Devartment of the Min-
istry of Economic Warfare, and to forward herewith copies
MAR 71942
/of papers
Ammim!aut Socistary(
u! Stare
FEB 2 5 1942
FE71942

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
of papers whioh have been received from the Ministry,
relating to the following subjeots:
1. Occupational Distribution of Labor in Japan.
2. Food Rationing in Japan.
It is believed that much, if not all, of the in-
formation in these papers will already be available in
Washington, but it is thought that they will possibly
be of some value as an indication of the Ministry's in-
terest in different aspects of Japanese economy.
In conneotion with these and several other papers,
an official of the Ministry of Eoonomic Warfare writes:
"I need hardly say that any information which
the U.S.A. authorities can supply on any of
these subjeots, notably.......food rationing
and industrial oocupatinal distribution in
Japan.......will be very gratefully received
by us."
Respeotfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Harsed shanty
Harold Shantz,
First Secretary of Embassy.
Enclosures:
1. Ministry of Eoonomio Warfare paper on
"Oooupational Distribution of Labor in
Japan."
2. Ministry of Economio Warfare paper on
"Food Rationing in Japan.*
JS.KA
A TRUE COPY
OF THE SIGNED
ORIGINAL
KA

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
Enelosure No. 1 to despatoh No. 24l6 of
December 23, 1941 from the Embassy at London, England
CONFIDENTIAL
OCCUPATIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF LABOUR IN JAPAN (PROPER) IN THE
SUMMER OF 1941
No official analysis of the occupational distribution
of the population in Japan has been given since the Census
of 1930. Our estimate for the number of workers, male
and female, in each of the broad ocoupational categories in
1941 is given below side by side with the corresponding
Census figure for 1930.
Table I
(in thousands)
Occupation
1930
1941
Agriculture
14,140
13,000
Fishing
547
Industry
5,699
8,950d
Mining
251
500ae)
Transport
1,107
1,250a
Commerce
4,478
5,000a
Civil Service
436
750b
Other Civilian Professions
1,365
1,500b
Armed Forces
243
2,000b
Servants
781
700b
Miscellaneous
571
600b
Unemployed
320
300b
29,938
35,250
Total Population
64,450
73,900
Sage Occupied
46.5±)
47.5±)
2.
The figure used in Table I for the number of workers
eagaged in industry, was based on the estimates given below
for/
a) Estimates supplied by H.M.Ambassador, Tokyo.
b Estimates based on the rise of the population combined
with what is known about the developments of Japanese economio life.
o) H.M.R. Tokyo estimated this figure at 1500,O00, but this figure
refers to the entire Japanese Empire and includes 46% of seasonal
fisherman. It is certainly not comparable with the Census figure
of 1930.
d) Estimate arrived at by aid of sampling. See 2. below.
•) This estimate is confirmed by sampling analysis.
f) This percentage is believed to have remained roughly constant
from 1930 to 1936 i.e. eve of war with China. It is reasonable
to suppose that the figure may have risen under the ciroumstances
of the following years from 462% to 472%, and this provides a
measure of confirmation for the various estimates made for l94l. If
amything the percentage occupied seems a little low in l94l, but
it has to be kept in mind that pari passu with the development of
the war economy there was a slump in the civilian (esp. expert)
aétivity of Japan.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
for the several branches of industry. Official statisties
for labour employed in the various branches of industry are
available up to December l938 for factories (with more than
5 workers) and up to May 1941 for large factories only
(which together employ mlmost half of the workers covered
by the larger sample). It is assumed below that (a) the
number of workers in workshops (with 5 employees and under)
has remained unchanged in each of the branches of industry
since 1930 and (b) the proportion of workers in factories
(with more than 5 employees) which are employed in the
larger factories has remained unchanged since December 1938.
Table II
(in thousands)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(6)
1930
1930
1938
1941
1941 1941
Industry
Total
ployed
em-
Em-
ployed
in
ployed
Em-
in
Em-(a)
ployed
in
Em- (b) Total
ployed
in
(4)
(5)
plus
Work-
Fac-
Work-
Fao-
shops
tories
shops
tories
1859
954
977
954
918
1872
Tertiles
Metals and
705
603
1238
603
2587
3190
Machinery
169
108
105
108
96
204
Pottery, etc.
128
8
322
8
625
633
Wood-working
Chemicals
703
265
645
208
114
64
645
208
135
78
780
286
Printing and paper
447
308
191
308
246
554
Food and Drink
Public Utilities
423
295
205
295
139
434
& Miscellaneous
Building and
1000
?
?
1000c)
Engineering
8953
TOTAL:
a) Column (4) is repetition of column (2).
b) Deduced from column (3) by means of index numbers of
employment in large factories for May 194l based on
Dec. 1938.
o)
Building and civil engineering is naturally not covered
The number of workers employed
by factory statistics.
in this category in l930, according to Census returns,
was 1,000,000. It 1s thought to have returned to about
the same level in 194l after having risen to about 145%
of 1930 1evel in 1937.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
mo1osure No. 2 to despatoh No. 2416 of December 23, 1941
rom the Embassy at London, England.
CONFIDENTIAL.
FOOD RATIONING IN JAPAN Marked "For Internal Cireulation only.
Not to be published"
Rationing commenced on June lst, 1940.
By the end of September l94l, the rations in force in sir of
Japan's largest cities were:-
Rice. 120-570 grammes per diem a head according 'to age,
ser, and the nature of work being done. (Rationed March 1941).
Food Oil. From S/loths of a pint a head per & months, up to
about 22 pints per household of 20 persons or more per 3
months.
Charcoal. From 9 bags a head per annum, up to 36 bags per
housshold of 15 persons per annum. This ration is reduced
if gas is available.
Wheat Flour. From 6 ounces a head per month, up to 38 ounces
per household of 20 persons or more per month.
Sugar. about 3/4 1b. a head per month.
Matohes. l0 boxes per month a head approximately.
Ration cards were issued from local Government offices, and
were stamped by the local Communications Assooiation who
verified and marked the cards with the number of persons in
each family. Cards could then be taken to local retailers
for the purchase of the appropriate rations.
Non-rationed foods.
Meat. This is not rationed, but it does not normally figure
to a large extent in Japanese menus. Chickens are available,
but are expensive.
Fish. Up to the present fish has been abundant.
Fresh vegetables. These are in good supply, but some shortage
may have been notioed in the larger towns owing to transport
diffioulties.
Tinned Foods. Supplies have been distributed in all Japanese
towns which might be exposed to bombing. Tinned Fish, and
tinned fruits are normally exported from Japan, and owing to
recent curtailment of export are plentiful.
Foodsturfs Distribution Committee.
This Committee was formed during the last week in November
l94l to distribute rioe and other important foodstuffs
direotly to the consumers in equal rations. It has not yet
been stated to what ertent the wholesale brade will be
excluded from this distribution soheme. A Bill regulating
distribution is expected to be introduced before the Diet
at the beginning of next year.
General Position
The Food situation in Japan is suoh that she should be self-
suffieient with rationing for at least three years. The
past three rice harvests have been bad, but Japan has made up
the whole of this deficienoy by importing, and will have to
return to previous standards. They have been recently
inoreasing comsumption because of better wages and migration
of labour from country to towns. They can in addition draw
on Manchykuo produotions - partioularly soya beans - that were
previously/

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
previously exported to Europe and elsewhere.
The abundance of fish can only be ourtailed by shortage
of oil for the fishing fleets, but most of the boats are sail
It is interesting to note that the Japanese have an
objection to unpolished rioe similar to the British objection
to wholemeal bread. The food supply is made certain in
addition to rationing, by the stores which can be got at the
present moment from Indo-China and Thailand.
The shortage of fertilisers, due to the fact that Japan
is cut off from phosphate and potash, should not be fel& for
three years. The Japanese rely for fertilisers, to a
considerable extent, on self-supply (home-made) fertilisers,
and only the switch of labour from the land to industry or
the armed forces would affect this. (There are signs of
this ocourring already and it will have to be stopped by
the Japanese).
M. E. W.
(E.R.D. Japan).
December 13th, 1941.
SUPPLEMENTARY NOTE
Rice
In 1940 compulsory mixing of 10% barley or wheat with
all rice was enforced. This caused considerable dissat-
isfaction and was discontinued after a little time. Reports
indicate that reinforcement was lately under consideration.
The enforced mixing of imported rice, differing in kind and
quality from Japanese rice, has also caused resentment and
discontent.
Since the end of 1939 the sale of fully polished rice
has been prohibited, only 70% of polishing being allowed.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
FE
Anitrd SakMDDepartment of Justice
HO
DEC n, .
SON OF
PERSONAL AND
8
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
sion
Department of State
FAD EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
1941
894/50/159
Dear Mr. Berle:
Department of State
Attached hereto is a copy of a memorandum dated
December 22, 194l, reflecting information concerning certain
resources of Japan, received by this Bureau from an outside
confidential source.
Sincerely yours,
Le. 24oover
DEC 3 1 1941
FILED
Enclosure
BY SPECIAL
MESSENGER
CC
Captain T. S. Wilkinson
Director, Office of Naval Iat&lligence
Navy Department
DEC 23 1941
Washington, D. C.
Brigadier General Sherman
Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washington. D.C.
PS
DECLASSIFIED
/HT
Justice Department Cruidclines, 1-27-1504
NARS, Date 5-16-1984
By RTG

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.86)
ary for outtdng sosk, ao weall as slething for the
894.50
Bnskilled laker is particularly pieatifal in Masehakee and
Earen, bst thare is me akilled laber ebtaiaakle in these plases. Bence,
apase skilled mem for the purpese of directing and training the uaskilled
It has alse been asserted that there was enly 4,071,000 kaku
af rice easwied ever frem the 1940 crep to 194l. In this cemasction,
it is stated shst the 1941 rice arop estimate was 85,000,000 kake,
whiek is emly 1y450,000 kaku more tham the 1940 yiold.
In l93s, seserding te available iafermatien, the censmaption
of séee por porssn per maamn for the entire pepalation waa 1, ll6 kaka.
In 1939 this average amoated to 1,114 and in 1940 1t fel1 to 1,093.
The mheat erep ia Japen fer this year has been estimated to
resch l1p478,000 koku skick, soserding to the latest available figares,
ao eusoded by 1,500,000 koku.
the herley and eats ereps were estimated at 15, 788,000 keks.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE IE THE AEVSER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONONIC AFADS
45-18 42 STREET
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
LONG IND CITY, N. Y.
January 14,1942.
RECEIVED
It occured to me,that in yout official capacity as
JAN 2 8 1942
DIVISION OF
international affairs you might be interested in looking
in enclosing a copy of that paper with my compliments.
Sincerely yours
feo S. A bolen
Goo.E.Rosden.
89
4
Cof
Mr.Herbert Feis
Fan EASTeRN AFFAIRS
Adviser en international economic affairs
Department of State,
Department of State
Washington D.C.
894.50
PSLMA
JAN 2 8 1942
FILED

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.94)
E X T E N T A N D L I M I T A T I O N S
OF JAPAN'S ECONOMIC PREPAREDNESS.
BY
GE OR GE E.RCSDEN;LLD.
NEW YORK, DECEMBER
1941

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
. 2
homefronts of ths wurring nations.Not only have strategists to con-
sider the industrial and economic situation of their own country as
one of the preponderant factors in all their decisions; they also
have to deirect their war efforts according to the economic possi-
bilities and limitations of the enemy.
That is why the economic structure of Japan is of the ut-
most importance for the Allies.If it is true,what many a writer has
been claiming,namely that Japan is devoid of essential raw materials
to such an extent that she can not possibly sustain warfare for lon
ger than two years,then strategists would have to conclude that an
inexpensive victory can be won by defensive strategy and delaying
tactics.If ,however,Japan is to be credited with sufficient econo-
mic backbone - i.e.industrial capacity and raw materials -to carry
on for time to come,the Allies will have to conduct offensive war-
fare against japan.as soon as possible.
Before Japan started her last crusade for "Lebensraum",tha
is before the conques": of Manchukuo,Japan,indeed,was the prototype
of a have-not nation: Her coal and lumber shortages were proverbiar;
she produced only abou' 1o % of her peace-time petroleum needs; she
had no bauxite, the ore thut contains aluminum and is indispensable
for aircraf: production.nor had she much xubber.In fac, she was de-
void of almost all materials of strategic importance.
Japan's situation in regard to the three most important.
groops of/
materiais for warfare -food,clothing and strategic rav materials -
at that time,represented itself is follows :

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
As far as food is concerned, Japan was - and stil1 15-
completely selfsufficient.If recently rumors have been heard to the
effect that Japan is running short of food ,they are solely due to
the fact that the conquered tmrritories of China consumed so much
homegrown Japanese food that a strain became apparent.If China shoul(
continue to constitute a debet factor in Nippon's food situation,it
can safely be expected that the Chinese in the conquered sections
will have to starve so that the Japanese may have enough to eat.Thus
we must conclude that Japan never was vulnerable as far as food is
concerned.
Much the same situation prevails in clothing.As a first
rate producer of silk and cotton as well as other materials for cloth-
9
ing,Japan is selfsufficient in this groop.
The strategic raw materials,however,are the sore spots of
Japan's economy.Before the conquest of Manchukuo,that is in 1931,she
was short of coal,wood,oil and bauxite,she was hard pressed for rubber
tin,nickel,mica,mercury,tungsten,manganese and antimony,chromium,
copper and,last not least,iron and steel.Not only was Japan lacking
these raw materials,she also was lacking the industrial capacity
to refine her oil,to smelt her tin and to produce her pig iron and
steel.
The conquest of Manchukuo relieved two key shortcomings :
it gave to Japan all the coal and all the lumber she needed,while
sizable rivers provided locations for important power projects.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.99)
LECISION FOR WAP AND ADOPTION OF AN ECONOMIC MASTER PLAN.
The conquest of the entire Far East by no means is a newry
conceived idea for the Japanese leaders.They always have considered
themselves as predestined to rule at least that section of the earth
But,before the ascent of Nazism and Facism,Japan was more concerned
with might and economic domination than with territorial acquisition
After the seizure of Karea and the establishment of the puppet-goveru-
ment in Manchukuo,there remained only two major steps towards ful-
fillment of the immediate Nipponese plans : Elimination of Vladivo-
stok as the"pistol pointed at the heart of Japan" and acquisition of
the whole of China as a vast market for Japan's industrial produc -
tion.The first step was tried repeatedly in vain and plans were shelved
for the time being.The second step was planned and prepared for the
beginning of 1936.
But something happened that changed Japanese plans complete-
ly.Staff-talks in Berlin ,ending in January 1936,convinced Japan that
she need not be content with China,and,what is more,the Japanese dele
gates became infected with General Haushofer's geopolitical doctrine.
They became convinced that it would not be enough to secure a market
and to have access to raw materials but that it would be imperative
for Japan to own all the territories where the needed raw materials
originate.The Chinese venture was started already.It was too late to
stop it,much to the disgust of Germany,whose officers ware training
Chinese troops.But,nevertheless,the new plans,worked out by German
economists were adopted by the Japanese mission and were brought howe
only to encounter fierce resistance by conservative statesmen and

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
一5-
financiers.It was no wonder that such opposition occurred.Callix
for the conquest of at least parts of the Dutch East Indies,of Malay
and Singapore and of the Philippines,the plan ment war with Great
Britain and Holland,in addition to the ultimate necessity of having
to fight the Soviet Union.The necessity of having to fight the United
States seems to have been ruled out.Germany's leaders,who were certain
that American Iolationism,Pacifism and abhorrence of war and internal
racial and national division would keep the U.S.A. out of war,seemed
to have converted the Japanese staff to their opinion.
With the promise in their hands,that Germany would engage
Great Britain so that Japan would find easy pickings,the Japanese
young officers group convinced many and "eliminated" those who could
not be convinced in the i famous February mutiny of 1936.
The dye was cast ! With the adoption of the German plan,
Japan decided for war as early as in the beginning of 1936.And this
decision was to be final,for the entire financial and economical re-
sources of the Empire had to be pooled and gambled ,if the plan was
to be carried through,a plan that called for the attainement of com-
plyte temporary self-sufficiency for as long a time as the war could
be expected to last.Such temporary or lasting self-sufficiency could
be reached in different ways :
1.Accumulation of vast stock piles.
2.Speed-up of production,build-up of industrial capacity and the
establishment of synthetic plants,wherever possible.
3.The occupation of smaller countries with sources of raw materials.
Thus the plan was conceived and we have to examine how and
in how far it has been carried through until the start ef hostilities

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.98)
.6 -
THEPREPARATIONS.
1. OIL .
Oil is the life-blood of war.Without it,ships can not move,
aircraft is grounded,tanks are immobilized and aupplies do'nt reach
the front.Japan's domestie oil production never reached as much as
1o per cent of her consumption.
Japan's first step was to step up this home production.In
this she failed.All the typical Japanese energy could not achieve the
impossible,namely exploitation of her domestic oil wells beyond theiv
capacity.She reached a maximum production of about 3 million barrels
annually.
Under the circumstances it seemed reasonable to adopt the
German practice of synthetic production of gasoline.Germany had per-
fected the two known processes : synthesis from coal and from oil-
shale.Having satisfactory coal yields from Manchukuo as well as from
conquered Chinese mines,Japan was enabled to consider building synthe-
tic plants.Moreover,farstrethed oil-shale beds were discovered in Man
chukuo,so that Japan had the materials for both the synthetic proces-
ses.German technicians came to Japan ,together with German machinery.
A plan was adopted ,aiming at 16 million barrels annual production,
and when,in 1937,it had become obvious, that the plans for the increase
of the domestic oil production had failed,the plan for synthetic pro.
duction was revised upwards to 27 million barrels.In the beginning of
194o,eleven plants were already in operation with an estimated produc-
tion of 8t million barruls.At least eight more plants have been com-

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
all figures in 1ooo barrels
of
1933: 1935  1936• 1937• 1938• 1939: 1940 1941  1942
natural
1400
1800
2450
2500
2500
2650
265030003000
JAPAN
synthetic
2500
8500
12000
15000
SAKHALIN
+
1600
1750
1800
2000
2000
2)
NEO
2000
2000
3000
3000
3000
3000
3000
1200
6000
DUTCH EAST IND.
3)
+
+
8500
8800
7200
7500
3500
4)
UNITEL STATES
15500 27100 29800
29700
32800 27700
24600
10000
5)
IRAN
200
400
600
1000
6)
MEXICO
100
200
800
200
PERU
RUMANIA
BAHREIN ISLD.
8)
and SAULI ARAB.
+
+
十
92
ECUADOR
+
+
+
150
proa.timport
TOTAL
19500 33000 39000 49000 55000 51000 50000 32000 26000
GRAND TOTAL 1935 - 1941 : 3o9 million barruls.
cot
ostimated.
included in total
1
Figures aru not being publishod.Direct delivcries seem to have been 3 million
barrels,according to an agrecment in 194o.Most likely,almost complete produc-
tion of almost 7 million barrels went to Japan by way of Lialay and other transferpwh.
2. Though wells have been destroyed bofore capture by Japanose,experienced crews
will need less than 3 months to repair all possible damage to wells.
3.Officially,the Dutch East Indies show a considerably lower export to Japan.But
a major part of tho Dutch East Ind.production has been regularly "exported" to
the Dutch Islands of Poeloe Riouv and Poeloe Samboe,from whure the disappaered
to untraceble destinations.Our cstimate follows closely .o of the Chinese Counc
for economic Research and vory likely is a considerable underestimate.
4.The goverment of the USA has discontinued to issue figures after the first quar-
ter of the year 1941.Deliveries in the first quarter slightly exceeded 5 million
barrels.Transshipmonts over the Philippines have occured,but are not included.
5.An agreement called for delivery of 1 million barrols in194o and probably has
been carried out.Previous deliveries have been estimated at loss than 16 million
6.In 194o,deliveries seem not to have taken place.
7.The total for 1937 and 1938 has been about 3oo ooo barrels.
8.Figures not published.Doli eries are said to total 1t million barrels.
9.Deliveries before 194o did not excood 2oo ooo barrels.
DOMESTIC PRODUCTION AND JAPANESE OIL IMPORTS .

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.99)
pleted in thu first half of 1941.Thilo oxpondituros for tho building
of plants for synthetic oil production until 194o were less than 1oo
million Dollars,an additional 117 million Dollars were set aside by
the government for 1941 and 1942.There is little doubt that the pro-
duction figure in 1941 has been close to 12 million barrels and that
1942 will bring a continued raise to at least 15 million barrels.Re-
ports according to which the failure of Germany to deliver machinery
through the blockado to Japan has impeded the construction of oil
plants are most likely planted.The British Blockade was expected by
Ger.any and it would mean to underestimate an enemy,if we should as-
sume that the Japanese oil program should have been stopped by an
easily foresecable enemy act.More likely,the machinery has been built
in Japan under the supervision of German technicians and engèneers
who reached Japan in a steady stream by way of Russia until the out-
break of the Russo-German war.
Successful,as the synthetic production has shown to be,it
could not possibly be sufficiunt.Consequently,Jepan had to either
conquer a country where she could get oil fields,or she had to accu-
mulate a gigantic stock pile of oil.The former would have been less
expensive in the eyes of authoritarian powers : it would have only ccst
human lives,but little money.But - there was no small country that
could have provided oil,short of the main adversaries.That is,why
Japan saw herself forced to build up her stock.And indeed,she did.
As becomes obvious from the table on the previous page,she produced
and bought enough oil from 1935 to 1941 as to have a total of about
3o9 mil ion barrels at the very least.During the same time she consumed

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
JAPAN'S OIL CONSUMPTION.
in 100o barrels
'1933 , 1935, 1936, 1937, 1938, 1939, 1940• 1941' 1942
1)
Gas fuel oil
7000
8000
9000 11000 12000 12000 12000 12000 12000
Gasoline and
60002)
7000 8000 9000 10000
9000
3)
8000
4000
5)
other petroleum
products
military
navy
tota1 consumption 1800o 200oo 2700o 3100o 3300o 3200o 3200o 31000 46000
TOTAL PRODUCTION AND IMPORT 1935-1941
309 million barrels
TOTAL CONSULAPTION
1935-1941
206 million barrels
APPARENT STOCK PILE JAN 1,1942
103 million barrels.
( stock as of Jan.1,1935 has not been considered).
1.Gas fuel oil is used for ship firing.The merchant marine was employed to the
utmost since 1937.That accounts for the relatively stable consumption.
2.few automobiles ,few aircraft(civilian) and very few roads.
3.start of gas saving campaign.Mixing-in of alcohol,finally as much as 2o%
reducing consumption for civilian use.
4.Strict rationing of gasoline,cutting out civilian gasoline consumption almost
completely.Only government cars and indispensable vehicles.Civilian aviation
restricted.
5.Civilian aviation can be expected to be cut out.Figure now represents to almest
95 % lubrication oils and Kerosine.
6.Start of Chinese incident.
7.Troopmovements.New expansion policy.
8.Indo-China requirements.Attacks against USA.
9.Full scale warfare on all fronts.
The above-mentioned figures are estimates of the author.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
only ab ut 2c6 million barrels, so that her apparent stock pile must
approximate 1o3 million barrels.
As to the figures we have computed on the chart of Japanese
oil consumption,it can be pointed out that actual and reliable figures
of course are not being given out by Japan.The German magazine "Oel
& Kohle" gave Japanese oil consumption as follows :(civilian consump-
tion only.)
Gas fuel oil
11.8 million barrels
Gasolino
7.8 million barrels
Kerosine
1.5 million barrels
Lubrication oils
1.8 million barrels
Others
2.1 million barrels
total
25 million barrels
The fuel oil estimate is right,according to expert opinion.
The gasoline figure,however,is far overestimated,considering that
Japan has only about 18o ooo automobiles and comparatively little
civilian aviation.The figure for miscellaneous is obviously put in fot
good measure.The purpose of these distorted figures is to hide tho
fact that Japan has been accumulating tremendous stocks.-As far as
military and naval consumption is concerned,figures of between 11 and
million barrels are being quoted.These,  ,seem to be right according
to virtually unanimous opinion.
As far as the near future is concerned, Japan can .oount on
a natural domestic production of 3 million,a synthetic production
of probably 15 million,a Sakhalin production of 2 million and a Bor-
neo production of about 6 million barrels,aggregating to about 26
million barrels as against an estimated annual consumption of 46 milli
barrels.At that rate,her stock pile would suffice for 5 years !

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
2. ALU.INUM.
One of the most important materials for modern warfare is
aluminum.For aircraft production it is indispensable,as it combines
hardness and durability with light weight.By far the ore with the higl
est alumina contents is bauxite,which usually contains in excess of
5o %ρf it.
For the production of aluminum,electricity is needed in hufe
amounts.Here,the newly built powerprojets in Manchukuo became useful.
It is well known that Japan has done her utmost to raise her aluminum
production capacity.Though no relieble figures are available,there is
little doubt that she has reached the capacity she believes necessary.
Not as easy,however,was the procurement of the ore.Japan her
self has no bauxite deposits to speak of.Therefore,Japan tried franti-
cally to induce her industry to make use of the low-grade domestic
aluminum rock and shell deposits in Korea.But since these materials
contain only 2o to 25 per cent of aluminum,the exploitation was extrecme-
ly expensive and Japanese industrialists did anything but like the
iden.Presentl ,however,Japan became aware of extensive and high-grade
bauxite deposits on the isle of Palao,n formerly German island that
was mandated to Japan by the League of Nations.Immediately, Japan star-
ted mining and as early as in 1938 she reported an output of 3o ooo
tons. year later she claimed an output of 1oo ooo tons,which is just
enough to cover Japan's consumption.Though the U.S.Bureau of Mines
doubts the announced figures,probably with reason,there is little
doubt that since that time production must have reached 1oo coo tons
if not more.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
But being well aware of the possibility that the communi-
cations between Palao and the mainland might be cut in time of war,
Japan took further steps.
She started bauxite mining in Hanoi.
She subsidized domestic mining of low-grade deposits.
She accumulated a sbck pile.
It seems to be impossible to get nny figures as to the do-
mestic production as well as to the Hanoi production.Only figures
relating to exports of forcign countries to Japan are partly avai-
lable.Japan bought bauxite from the Lutch East Indies,Malay and
Greece mainly.In 1939 alone,her imports amounted to 3oo ooo tons,
five times as much as her total consumption in that year.
Owing to the unavailability of figures,it is most difficul:
to compute a reliable indication as to Japan's stock piles.Two facts
are outstandingly clear : As long as Japan can keep open her lines or
communications with Palao,she is completely selfsufficient in alumi-
num.And even if and when these lines should be cut,indications are
that a stock pile of major proportions has been accumulated.If we
consider that the output of Palao alone was sufficient for Japanese
consumption,we see that the entire import,the whole production of
Hanoi and all of the domestic output must have been salted away.
Under such circumstances,we do well to assume that Japan
is not vulnerable in her bauxite supply.Only destruction of aluminum
plants could do the trick in this field.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
3. Miscellaneous strategic raw materials.
TUNGSTEN is a metal that is considered irreplacable as a
hardening agent for armorpiercing ammunition and mechinetools.Japan
has no domestic production to spenk of.Nor has she hoarded any amount
of this metal,as far as is knowmThe reason lies in occupied China,
around Kwangsi : the largest deposits of Tungsten known on this earth
The output of these mines was more than half of the world production
even before the war.With these ines in her hands,Japan is unchallenge-
ably selfsufficient.
Japan's domestic output of TIN is less than 2ooo tons
annually as against a consumption of 7ooo tons in peace time.As can
be computed from the exportfigures of tin producing countries,Japan,
during the last five years,has imported just about 2o ooo tons more
than she needed to fill the gap between domestic productior and consuup-
tion.This stock pile,however,would hardly be enough for more than 2
years of war.But Japan did not need to go the costly way of accumu-
lating vast stocks."ith about 16oo tons of tin supplied by the occupied
part of China and another 3ooo tons annually from "French" Indo-Chin2
Japan's annual yield is about 6 Goo tons.Iven if her wcr timo needs
should bo about 12ooo tons cnnually,tho stock pilo would Irst for
about four yuars of war cnd tho production of Thrilend mny boost
production so thnt the piles l: st for fully five yenrs,which sooms
to be tho tino,Joprn and Gormnny regardod es outormost tiwelimit for
war.
Nor is RUBsER a recson for worry for Jnponoso economists
any moro.Though domostic production is small,Jepanose intercsts have
seen to it c long tiwo ngo thnt the output of French Indo China would

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
-14
covor thoir noeds.Formerly insignificant,French Indo-Chinc's rubber
proauction rcnched en all-time high of 13o ooo tons in 1939,more tham
covering Japan's consumption.Considering that it takcs ebout 6-8
yoars until rubber plontetions bocome productive,we heve enother glay-
ce at the purposeful preparotions Japan engaged in !
As far as CopPER is corccrncd, Japen doos not hrvo to worry
vithos.She raised doncstic production from 77ooo tons in 1935 to
over 114ooo in 1939 ! Hor i.ports,only 52ooo tons in 1934,were step-
ped up to 11o ooo tons in 1938.hnd in 1939 sho got 115 ooo tons from
tho U.E.A. alone,vhilo total imports oxccedcd 13B ooo tons.Japan
thus has pilcd up enough copper.And evon if she should run short,
she will be able to replace coppor with alumir.um in many instances.
As Japan has donc in rogard to the aforementioned raw mate-
roials,so she has done with all tho oters too.Mercury she bouht iu
lar o quantitios fro. Italy,and nickcl,chronium,micn and antimony
woro oasy enough to be secured,as thoy are no: nuuded in as lergo 2
quantity as most of thc other metals.There remains only ono impor-
tant croop of raw matorials that has not been examined yet : the
raw aatcrials needed for tho production of iron end steel.
4. ATESIALL FOR IROL ANL STHEL PROI CCTION.
For the production of pig iron and steel,threo main ma-
torials are nccessary : scrap iron,primary iron and manganeso.
Japan's domestic manganese production - 68ooo tons in
1937 -probably has bcen stepped up to 1oo ooo tons,but even then,it
covers only about 1o  of her needs SHe imported most of her mangancse

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
15
fromMalay,the Philippines,China and Indo-China.,and,last not leasty
India.Japan's total consumption is approximately 1 million tons.The
total production of the Yen-Block,even if we include the Philippines
most of Malay and Thailand as well as French Indo China and occupied
China,is not able to supply more than half of Japan's needs.She has
tried to build up a stock pile.So,for instance, she imported over
187 ooo tons from India in 1937, just about 5o % more then the previous
year.However,it stands to reason that she is not sufficiently prepared
in this metal as to wage a war for years to come.Of,course,there is
still the possibility that her German scientists have found a sub-
stitute.Indeed,that contingency appears to be the more probable,as
scientists in the U.S.A. are reported to have found such a substitute
that even affords better results than manganese.Thus,although we must
conclude that Japan lacks sufficient manganese,there is no basis for
the assumption that this lack may shorten Japan's period of grace.
As far as the steel production is concerned,Japan has made
tremendous progress.From near to nothing in 193o,she reached a steel
production level of 8.1 million tons in 194o.And as Japan does hardly
any buildings construction with steel frames,nor automobile building:
this steel has been used mainly for military purposes,for shipbuilding
and the manufacture of tools of war.
of/
Japan has been loading her coneerters with 47 parts scrap
of/
iron and 53 parts pig iron.It is obvious that Japan with a pro capita
consumption of iron and steel of 57 'kg as against 248 in the U.S.A.
with a total of a little over 18o ooo automobiles as against more thar
3o millior in the U.S.A. could only have an insignificant scrap yieid.

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.94)
- 1.6 -
THE DEVELOPMENT OF JAPAN'S STEEL PRODUCTION.
in million tons
10
110
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
3
2
2
average
1835
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.96)
- 17 -
In fact,it is a matter of doubt,if Japan even has as much as one mil-
lion tons of domestic secondary iron and steel annually.More speci-
fic estimates are around 7oo to 8oo ooo tons.Everything else had to
be imported.Japan's main source for scrap - the basic material she has
built her warmachine with - came from the United States.Japan imported
as much as 2 million tons of scrap in one single year irom the USA.
A comparison between imports and steel production shows that the Japan
se government was right,when,in July 1941,it was claimed that only one
years supply of scrap was available.It can not very well have been
more than 1t million tons.- As soon,therefore,as scrap became difficult
to secure abroad,Japan started lowering the scrap iron quotient first
to 43,then to about 3o per cent.It is easy to see that Japan's scrap
stock will be used up by the middle of 1942.- Nevertheless,the situ-
ation is by no means precarious. Contrary to wide spread belief,scrar
iron is not necessary for steel production.It is only a means of redu-
cing costs,as it is cheaper than pig iron.Converters can as well be loa-
ded with pig iron only - if there is enough of it.
Japan's pig iron production,import and consumption are evi-
dent from the chart on page 18.From an output of 2 million tons of
pig iron she has developed her facilities to a production of 4 million
tons in 1939.However,with only 1o % domestic scrap, she will have to
load 9o % pig iron. That would amount to about 7 million tons if she
maintains her fromer production level.Her stock pile of pig iron,as
at the time of the freegue
it is apparent on the chart, amounted to about 5 million tons,thus en-
o3
abling her to produce over 8 million tons of steel in 1941,with more

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.95)
 10 -
THE PIG-IRON CONSUMPTION,PRODUCTION AND IMPORT OF THE YEN -BLOCK.
国
apparent consumption for steel production
production
Ⅲ
= importation
四
四
1933
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
19401)
all figures in millions of tons.
1) pig-iron consumption rose on account of a decrease in scrap loading.
domestic production in 194o did not increase,according to general opinion.
pig-iron imports started to slow down.The USA as wcll as the other suppliers
needed their own production.Japan must have started to dig into stock-pile.
2).With the freezing orders,imports stopped completely.Even before they were
insignificant.Probably,2t million tons of Japan's stock were used up.It is
not known,if Japan increased her production in 1941.Most likely, she increased
her production capacity,but not her production on account of lack of ore.
3.)Asauming that Japnn will incroase her steel production to 12 million tons
and that she will decreass her scrap loadings to about 1o per cont, she will
need about 1ot million tons of pig iron.It is very unlikely that she can
increase her pig iron production to more than 7 million tons.Possibly,her
stock pile is not large enough to bridge the gap.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
一18.
than threo million tons to spure for 1942.
In the year 1942,it will not be sufficient to maintain the
former production level of steel.To say the least,Japan will have to
produce 12 million tons of steel.Even with that,she approximates only
15 % of the production of the USA alone.To produce 12 million tons of
steel,Japan will have to have 5o % more steel capacity than she posses
to
ses now.Granted,that it is possible for her/attain that capacity,she
will need just about 1ot million tons of pig iron to do the job.If we
deem it possible for Japan to reach a pig iron cnpacity of 7 million
tons in 1942,we are reljing upon consular rep rts of the last fow
years,indicating that Japen has been constantly building new furnaces
But even so,she certainly can not hope to boost her capacity beyond
7 million tons during this year.The remaining 3t million tons will
be contributed almost completely by the remainder of the stock pile.
But if Japan has been adjudgod enough capacity to produce
a possible 12 million tons of steel,and if we have pronounced it is
within the realm of probability that she can boost her pig iron cap-
city to 7 million tons,we still have not touched the crux of the
problem : iron ore .All the capacity imaginable would not be of ary
value,if Japan has not got the ferrous ore !
And indeed : a look at the iron-ore chart (p.2o)makes it ob.
vious that Japan has not got the iron ore to do the job,With a stesl
production of 12 million tons,and with only enough sccondary metal to
supply 1o % of the loading, she needs 1ot million tons of pl ircn.
The chart on p.2o is based on an ore content of 5c % It is wel! knowk
however,that Japan is and has been using some much poorer ore. That.
incidentally,explains the apparent oversupply of iron ore in the yean

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
20
THE IRON ORE OUTPUT,IMPORT AND CONSUMPTION OF JAPAN:
= apparent consumption
13
13
domestic productin
= yield from occupied China
= yield from Manchukuo
10
= imports
9
7
m
5
3
19331
1935
1936
1937
1938
2)
1939
1940
3)
19414)
1942
5)
obviously,Japan loaued more scrno iron.
2
main sources of import: Australia,Phillippines,Malay
Australia needs her ore for war.
Froozing order cits imports in half
10
War blocks imports.Apparent consumption scyrockets for lack of scrap and
need of incroased production.How quickly can Malayan and Philippino mines
tilized?

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
-21
from 936 tc 1939.Actually,there can not be any stock pile of ox
to talk of.That leaves Japan with the task to supply her most impor
tant war industry with just about 14 million tons of high grade ore
or to discontinue the war effort.Fith production within the Yen-Bloe
scarcely higher than 4t million tons,Japan had a first class program
on her hands.Malay and the Philippines together could supply her with
another 4 million tons.If she encounters no difficulties,she may even
be able to considerably incroase the yield of the Philippines - if,wbek
and after the fighting has stopped.And she has to master the additiora)
task of ferrying these tremendous amounts of ore home from both Malay
and the Philippines,through submarine-infested waters.
S U MM A R Y.
Summarizing,we can state that Japan,in attacking Malay,is
not so much after rubber and tin ,nor oil,but after iron.Moreover,
it has become obvious,that the Philippines are of key importance for
two reasons : economically,because their iron is needed to koep Ja.
pan's war machine running and strategically,because the Philippines
in allied hands would be a basis to cut communications between he
homeland and the fighting front.
Japan by no means is economically weak.For the next five
years at least, Japan will have all the strategic raw materiais she
needs,if and when she can hold on to the Philippines and Malay.It
seems to be up to the Allies to prevent just that.If the allies succeed
in such an effort,Japan will be doomed.

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.93)
TE
January 23, 1942.
My dear Mr. Boaden:
Your thoughtfulness in sending to the Department
a copy of your atudy on the extent and limitations
of Japaness ecomomic properedness is appreciated.
It will be read with interest.
Sincerely yours,
894.50/1
Herbars Feis
Adviser on International
Economie Affairs
7
6
Mr. George E. Rosden,
45-18 42nd Street,
Long Islamd City, New York.
844.50
JAN 24 1943
CR
0
S
 cop
/LMA
The signed
Insl.
EA:HF:LWW

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
894.80
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Economic situation in Japan.
Mr. Shudo comments on increasing seriousness of, - resulting fr
shortage of raw materiale and foodstuffs.
894.50/160
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch 829
(Deepatok, telegram, Instraotiom, letter, eto.)
From
DatedOctober 16. 1941
Shanghai(Lockhart)
Tb
File No.
894.00/1154

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Copy of a paper on Japan's gains of raw materials in
Indo-China and Thailand:
Forwards -, and chart showing the location of raw
material sources.
894.50/161
mmp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
PS/SGB
See Military Attache Beport
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Military Attache
From Great Britain
DatedMay.21.1942
tb -#47978 (Learnard)
File No. 894.24/1859
U. S. BOVENMENT PRINTIN OFFICE 1—1540

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Economic information that may be contained
in Japanese broadcasts:
894.50/162
Requests report on all -.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
bb
PS/SGB
See
Tel # 666,9 pm
(Despaiok, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated .._..July.24,_1942
Eroms
To
China (Chungking)
File No.
894.76/83a
0. S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1—1B40
162

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT
Group - M. I. S.
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
1942
TO
The A. C. of S., G-2
Secretary, G-2, W.D.G.S.
Chief, M.I.S.
Executive Officer, M.I.S.
CHIEF, INTELLIGENCE GROUP
EXEC. OFFICER, INTELL. GROUP
Survey Section
Orientation and Instruction
Drafting and Reproduotion
 Stenographic Section
: Dissemination Group
CnaA Branch
: Air Group
 Eur- African Group
Branch
Fer Ee Tern Group
Branch
: Americen ntelligence Command
• COUNTERINTELLIGENCE GROUP
 TRAINING BRANCH
: PSYUHOLOGIC WARFARE BRANCH
 FOREIGN LIAISON BRANCH
 MILITARY ATACHE SECTION
 SPECIAL SERVICE BRANCH
 INTERROGATION BRALCH
: ADMINISTRATIVE BR NCH
Resord
Peconnel
Finarce
Crief Clerk
FCR
: Recessary Action
: Preparation of Reply
 Recomeppation or remark
• Informa Wion
: Note and return
: Courier Delivery
Mest ke returmed
Xo State Pepartorent
by Rec. 10, ria
Contart dection.
She renot
REBTRICTED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
Departaent
gence Group, .I.S.
FAR EASTERN GROUP
194
TO:
THE A.C. OF S.. G-2
CHIEF, M. I. S.
EXECUTIVE OFFICER, M.I.S.
ADMINISTRATIVE BRANCH:
Chief Clerk
Mail Room
Personnel Branch
Record Section
CHIEF, INTELLIGENCE GROUP
EXEC. OFFICER, INTELLIGENCE GR.
Stenographic Pool
Drafting and Reproduction
Air Group
American Intelligence Command
Eur-African Group
Branch
North American Group
Orientation & Instruction Branch
Prisoner of War Branch
Psychological Warfare Branch
Special Branch
Military Attache Branch
Geographic Branch
Section
Dissemination Group
nl
Branch
COUNTER INTELLIGENCE GRCUP
FOREIGN LIAISON BRANCH
For:
Information
Necessary Action
File
Mail
Return to F.E., M.I.S., Room
Remark: :
Plenssum e
thavk c.
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTHICTED

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.89)
22204
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EA
Tokyo, June 3, 1 9 4 2
SUBJECT: MATERIAL PHEPARED AS ENCLOSURES TO
COMMERCIAL ATTACHE'S REGULAR FINANCIAL
AND ECO..OMIC REPORTS
CONFIDENTIAL
ni
only
1220
AUG
1942
AUG 2 S1942
Divinon of
N
INIERNAIUNAL CUNMIC AS
FAR EAST AFFAINS
894.50/163
SEP2 1942
1942
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department of State
ATE
152
894.51
ST
NCATIONS
ER0S
k2
1  2 
EC
5Ex
u
The Honorable
MR. MUBCK
The Secretary of State
ADVISER
SEP-1942
Washington
SEP1494
Sir:-
FILED
1-7/
I have the honor to submit herewith th
attached material, which had been prepared prior to
December 8, 194l as enolosures to the Commeroial
PS/VMC
Attache's

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
2
Attache's regular Financial and Economic Reports.
Respectfully yours,
re bh 6. From
Joseph C. Grew.
Bourbon CopyS
Received.wo
File No. 850
FSW/mp
Enclosures:
1 - Revision in Rate of Interest on Postal Savings
Money
2 - Revision in Enforcement Regulations for Ordinance
Pertaining to "mployment of Capital by Banks, etc.
3 - Designation of Capital Fund on the Basis of No. 8 of
Paragraph 1 of Article 8 of Enforcement Regulations
for Ordinance Pertaining to Employment of Capital
by Banks, etc.
4 - Bank Deposits, Loans and Security Holdings at End of
October, 1941
5 - Revision in Ordinance Pertaining to Enforcement of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law
6 - Revision in Price Control Ordinance Enforcement
Regulations
7 - Revision in Case Pertaining to Entry, Stay and Departure
of Aliens in and Out of the South Sea Islands Under
Japanese Mandate
Distribution:
Original and 3 coples to Department
Original and 4 copies and 1 hectograph copy
of enclosures

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolesure No. i to Dt
Juné 3, 1942, from the Embasey
Tokyo
REVISION IN RATE OF INTEREST ON POSTAL
SAVING MONEY (TRANSLATED FROM OFFICIAL
GAZETTE OF NOVEMBER 19, 1941)
(Translation by the Okuyama Service)
We have sanctioned the matter concerning the re-
vision in the Ordinance Governing the Rate of Interest
on Postal Savings Money promulgated by Imoerial
Ordinance No. 166 of 1905, and hereby cause the same
to be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual
Imperial Seal
November 18, 1941
Prime Vinister
Hideki Tojo
Minister of Overseas Affairs
Shigenori Togo
Minister of com unications
Ken Terashima
Imperial Ordinance No. 990
Ordinance Governing Rate of Interest
on Postal Savings Money
Article 1
The rate of interest on postal savin s shall be
2.76 per cent per annum.
However, the rate of interest
on postal savings registered in ledgers in the charge
of Chosen Government-General and Taiwan Government-
General shall be 3 per cent oer annum and the rate of
interest on postal savings registered in ledgers marked
with the indication of Kwantung Leased Territory,
Karafuto (Saghalien) or the South Sea Islands shall be
3.12 per cent per annum.
Article 2
The rate of interest on postal savings wrich are
deposited on condition that no refundment can be made
for

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
for a certain fixed period shall be one obtained by
adding 10 per cent to the rate mentioned in the pre-
ceding Article.
Article 3
The rate of interest on postal savings w ich are
deposited on condition thet no refundment can be made
for a certain fixed period in cccordance with the
stipulation by the Minister o Comunications and
part refundment of which can neither be made shall be
3.4 per cent, in spite of the orovisions of the preced-
ing two Articles.
. However, the rate of interest in
case of refundment being made within five yeers,
countins from the date of eporiting, sball be in
accordance with the following classificstions.
1. In case of refunament beins made vithin the
period over four years end un er five years: F.25 per
cent.
2. In case of refundment being made within the
period over three years end under four yeers; 3.1
per cent.
3. In case of refundment being made vithin the
period over two years and under three years; 2.95 per
cent.
4. In case of refundment being made within the
period under two years: 2.85 per cent.
Article 4
The rate of interest on postal savings which are
made by collection system and on condition hat no
refundment can be made for a certain fixed period in
accordance

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.96)
accordance with the stipulation by the Minister of
Communications shall be 3 per cent per annum, in 
spite of the.preceding three Articles.
Article 5
With regard to the postal savings, the current
total amount of which exceeds Yen 3,Ooo, the competent
government office can decrease the rate of interest
as mentioned in the precedi four Articles for the
excess amount by order.
Article 6
The rate of interest on postal savings which are
made for the purpose of transfer account shall be 2.4
per cent, in spite of the provisions of Article 1 and
the preceding Article. However, with regard to the
savings, the current total amount of which exceeds
Yen l00, c00, the competent government office can de-
crease the rate of interest or cancel the payment of
nterest for the excess amount by order.
sasontaryRies
oenis rainance shall be enforced as from December
Iymoi.wwith regard to the postal savings which have
Bocm Made DyFcolrection Bystem and on condition that
mo rerundment eah be made for a certain fixed period of
orommoaslons and which actually exist at the time
of the enforcement of this orarnance, the former regu-

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.94)
(Tranalation by the
We have sanotioned the atter concerning the re-
vielon in the Crdinance Governing the Bate of Interest
on Poatal Savinge "oney promulgated by Imperial
Ordinanee Ho. 166 of 1905, and hereby cauze the same
to be prommlgated.
Imperial iga anual
Imperial Seal
November 18, 1941
Prime inieter
Hideki Tojo
ininter of Overssee ffaire
shigenorl Togo
inister of Compunleations
Ken "erashima
Imparial rdinance a. 290
rdinanco overning ate of Interest
on Postal Savinge Voney
actiole 1
The rate of intereet on postal cavings shall be
2.76 per cent per annum.
However, the rate of interest
on pestal savingo reglatered in ledgera in the charge
of Chosen Covernment-General and Taiwan overnment-
General shall be 3 per cent per annum end the rate of
interest on postal savinge registered in ledgera marked
with the indication of Kwantung Leaced erritory,
Karafuto (Saghalien) or the South Sea Ialands shall be
3.12 per cent per annum.
srtiale 2
The rate of interest on postal savinge whioh are
deposited on condition that no refundment can be wade
for

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.95)
2
for a oortain fixed period shall be one obtained by
adding 10 per cent to the rate mentioned in the pre-
oeding Artiole.
Artiole3
The rate of interest on postal savings w loh are
deposited on contition that no refundment can be made
for a certain fixed period in accordance with the
atipulation by the inister of Co municatlone and
part refundment of which can neither be made shall be
3.4 per cent, in s 1te of the rovielons of the preced-
ing two Artioles. Yowever, the rate of interest in
case of refundment beins  ade  ithin five years,
countinr fros te sete of eaoaitine, chalr be in
accordence wit  folloul elsceificstions.
1. In cace of refunt ent betne made within the
perlod over four yeers  un er rive vearer .25 per
cent.
2. In cone or refundment beine male v thin the
perlod over three yeare   un er four yeare; 3.1
per cent.
3. In caee of refundment boinn made vithin the
per1od over two years and under three yeare; 2.95 per
cent.
4. In case of refundment being  ade vithin the
period under two years: 2.85 per cent.
Article 4
The rate of intereat on postal savinge whier are
made by oollection syntem and on condition hat no
refundment can be made for a certain fixed perlod in
accordanoo

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.91)
aseordanee with the stipulatlon by the Minister of
Communications shall be 3 per cont per annam, in
spite of the preceding three Articles.
Article 5
with regard to  he postai savings, the current
total amount of wh1c exceeds Yen 3.000, the competent
government office oan leere ac the rate of intereat
as mentioned in the vecedin four rticles for the
excess amount by order.
Articlc 6
The rete of intereet on vontal cavinga w loh are
made for the pur ace of r pafer pocoun: shall be C.4
per cont, in o e of r provislon of rticle 1 and
the precedin rtie c.
oever,
1 e nre to he
savinge, the ourrent total a ount f  lo exceeds
Yon 100, 00, the competont covernuen office can de-
orease the rate of interest or cancel to payment of
interest for tre exeeer amount by orler.
Supplementary uleo
This Ordina ce ahell be enforee:  s from Pecember
1. lo41. with regard to tre este savinss whlo have
been made by colleotion oystem anl on conlitlon that
no refundment can be ande for a certain fixed period of
time in accordanee wit the stipulntion by the inlater
of Comunloatione and which motually exlst at the time
of the onforcement of this Ordinance, tho former regu-
lations ehall be followed.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatom d
June 3, 1942 from the Embassy at
Tokyo
REVISION IN ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS FOR
ORDINANCE PERTAINING TO EMPLOYMENT OF
CAPITAL BY BANKS, ETC.
(Translated from the Official Gazette of
November 7, 1941, by the Okuyama
Service)
Finance Ministry
Agriculture-Forestry Minietry)
Ordinance No. 1
Commerce-Industry Ministry
Overseas Affairs Ministry
The following revisions shall e made in
the Enforcement Regulations for Crdinance Pertaining
to Employment of Capital by Banks, Etc.
November 7, 1941
Minister of Finance,
Okinobu Kaya
Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry
Hiroya Ino
inister of commerce and
Industry
Nobusuke Kishi
Minister or Overseas Affairs
Shigenori Togo
The followin" item shall .e added to the end
of paragraph 1 of Article :
8. In addition to those mentioned in the preceding
various numbers, a caoital fund designated by the com-
petent Minister of State.
An expression "...and No. S" shall be added after
"No. 5" in paragraph 2 of the same Article.
Supolementary Rule
This Ordinance shall be enforced as from the day
of its promulgation.
(For reference)
Extract from the Enforcement Regulations
for Ordinance Pertaining to Employment of
Capital by Banks, Etc., promulgated as
Finance

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Finance Ministry, Agriculture-Forestry Ministry,
Cammerce-Industry Ministry, and Overseas Ministry
Ordinance No. 1 on November 22, 1940.
Article 8. Provisions oi Articles 4 to 7 shall not
be applied in the case when the contracts of loaning,
bill discounting or current overdraft are concluded
concerning the capital corresponding to one of the
following:
1. The capital to be loaned vit: the approval,
permission or the specification of limit of the ad-
ministrative governmental offices.
2. The capital to be accommodated by order of
the administrative governmental offices.
3. The governmental capital concerned to be
accommodated to the party to which the accommodation
of the governmental capital has been decided.
4. The capital to be accommodated against deposits,
savings, fixed reserves and other securities of
similar nature.
5. Call loans (such as overnight calls, un-
conditional calls, and the short term loans not re-
deemable for a period not exceeding seven days).
6. The capital to be accommodated to monetary
organs.
7. The capital to be accommodated to Hokkaido,
prefectures, prefectural associations, cities, towns,
villages, city-town-village associations, town-village
associations, wards within cities, towns and villages,
city-town-village. school associations, town-village
school

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.88)
fr te e) Qte or
school associations, and school wards.
The unt of the loan or bill discount or the
t ambunt of the ourrent overdraft contracts
conducted concerning the capital corresponding to
items No. 1 to No. 5 of the preceding clause shall
not be included, in calculation, in the balance of
loans of the working capital, the accumulated amount
of the loan of the working capital, the belance of
standard loans, the balance of discount, the balance
of standard discount or the limit amount of the
current overdraft contracts.
5n0
2
re

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.94)
ORDINANGE PARTAININO TO EMPLOTMENT OF
CAPTTAL BY BANES, STC.
(Translated from the orfacial Casette of
November 7, 1941, by the Okuyama
Service)
Ministry
Ordinance No. 1
Overseas Affairs "inistry
The following revialons ahall be made in
the Enforoement Regulations for rdinanoe Pertaining
to Employment of Capital by Sanke, to.
November 7, 1941
Kinistor of Finanoe,
Okinobu Kaya
"inlster of Agrioul:ure
and Forestry
Hiroya Ino
inister of Commerce and
Industry
Nobusuke Kiahi
inister of Overseas ffaire
3higenori Togo
The followins 1tew shall e edded to the end
of paragraph 1 of Artiole 8:
 In addition to those mentloned in the preceding
varioue numbere, a capltal fun: designated by the com-
petent Minister of  tate.
An oxpreaaion "...and No. 3" shall be added after
"No 9" in paragraph 2 of the same rtiole.
Sumplemeatarx Fula
This Crdinance shall be enforced as from the day
of ts promalzation.
(For reference)
Capisal by Banks, Eto., promulgated ms
Fimance

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.95)
Fimemee Mintetey, Agrioulture-Forestry Minlstry,
Oräinance No. 1 on Nevember 22, 1940.
Artiele 8. Previsions of Artiales 4 to 7 shall not
be applisd in the case when the contraots of loaning.
bill discounting or ourrent overdraft are conoluded
coneerning the capital corresponding to one of the
following:
1. The capital to be loaned with the approval,
permission or the specification of limit of the ad-
ministrative governmental offioes.
2. The capital to be eccommodated by order of
the administrative govornmental offices.
3. The governmental capital conoerned to be
acoommodated to the party to whion the accommodation
of the governmental capital has been deoided.
4. The ompital to be sccommodated againet deposita,
savings, fixed reserves and other seourities of
similar nature.
5. Call loans (suoh as overnight oalls, un-
conditional calls, and the short term loans not re-
deemable for a period not exoeeding seven days).
6. The capital to be mcoommodated to monetary
organs.
7. The capital to be accommodated to Hokkaido,
prefectures, prefectural associatione, cities, towns,
villages, oity-town-village assgoiations, town-village
associations, wards within cities, towns and villages,
eity-towm-village ssheol assooiations, town-village
s0boe1

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
saheol assoeiatiens, and soheel wards.
The mmount of the loan or bill discount or the
limit amount of the ourrent overdraft contraots
canducted conoerning the capital corresponding to
1toms No. 1 to No. 5 of the preceding clamse shall
not be inoluded, in calculation, in the balanee of
loans of the working cspital, the aoouxalated amount
of the loan of the working capitel, the balanee of
standard loane, the balanoe of disoount, the balance
of standard discount or the limit amount of the
ourrent overdraft contracts.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.95)
ber 7, 194k, by the Okuyamm
Service)
Fingnes Miniatry
Agrioalture-Forestry  inistry)
Notioe No. 1
Overseas Arfairs Ministry
November 11, 1941
"inister of Finance,
Okinobu Kaya
"inieter of Agrioulture
and Forestry,
Hiroya Ino
"inister of Commerce and
Industry
Nobusuke Kish1
"inister of Overseas Affairs,
Shigenori Tego
1. The capital to be acoommodated by discount of
munitional bills.he munitional bills cs  entioned
horein are such exchange bills issued by munition com-
panles and othere whioh received an order from the
Amy and are drawn on "ippon Kogyo Ginko (Japan Indue
trial Bank, Ltd. as nayer, and which have been ac epted
by the same bank on the basis of the order for accapting
obligations given in accordance with the provisions of
Artiale ll of the National Deneral Mobilization Law.
2. The purohasing capital to be aooommodated to a
purdhkwing organ on the besis of the loss oompensation
system for snopeneion of export.

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.96)
AND BBCURITY
OF OOTOB
Department of Finano•
(unit - Yen 1,000)
Special
Ordinary Savings
Total
Bank of Japan
Banke
Banks
Banks
(gov. deoosits)
DOITS..... 2,900,384
26,219,966 5,320,821 34,441,171 1,198,905
Gompared with
ptmber,1941 + 83,480 + 151,178 + 93,425 + 328,083 + 78,3
Compared with
October,1940
+ 721,937 +4,400,765 +1,066,075 +6,188,777 + 360,9
LOANS
5,185,278 14,529,934
Compared with
347,386 20,062,598
734,40
September, 1941 + 206,674 + 199, 461 +
5,387 + 411,521 + 130,000
Compared with
0otober, 1940 + 905,930 +1, 328,201 +
45,816 +2,279,947 - 88,198
1,983,525 12,220,235 4,829,857 19,033,6174,3,
pared with
pared vith
,100. + 722,996 +3,001,722 + 967, 414 +4,702,132 +1,410,70
192,736
1,556,332
272,874 2,021,942
50,305
1,547 - 47,364 +
7,892 - 41,019 +
1,900
9,000 + 211,175 + 66,892 + 347,067 +
3,203

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. & so Deapatch dated
June 3, 19a2 from the Embassy at
Tokyo
REVISION IN ORMMANCE PERTAINING TO ENFORCEMENT OF THE
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY LAW
(Translated from Official Gazette
of November 19, 1941)
We sanctioned the matter concerning revision in
Ordinance pertainin to enforcement of the Machine
Tool Manufacturing Industry Law, and hereby cause the
same to be promulgated.
Imperlal Sin Manual
Imperial Seal
November 18, 1941.
Prime Minister, Minister of
Home Affaire and Minister of War,
E1j1 Tojo.
Minister of the Navy,
Shigetaro Shimada.
Minister of Finance,
Okinori Kaya.
Minister of Commerce & Industry,
Nobusuke Kishi.
Imperial Ordinance No. 989
Revision shall be made in Ordinance pertaining
to the enforcement of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law as follows:
Artiole 4 shall be eliminated.
2 of Article 5
The soale stipulated by the provisions of para-
graph 1 of Artieke 4 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
Industry Taw shall be the equipment with 200 machine tools
as faoilities for one factory. When the machine tools
as specified by decree are manufactured, however, the
soale shall be equipment with 50 machine tools as
facilities for the manufacture.
The machine tools to be the facilities as mentioned
in the foregoing paragraph shall be the maohine tools
as mentioned in Article 1.
The expression "Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry
Companies as contained in paragraph 1 of Article 6
shall be revised as "Enterpriser of Manufacturing
Machine Tools" and the expression "10 or more machine
tools" as "5 or more machine tools".
The expression "Capital Fund of the Business Year"
as contained in paragraph 1 of 2 of Article 7 shall
be revised as "Capital Fund of the Business Year of
Juridical Person" and the expression "an amount of paid-
up share capital" as "an amount of paid-up share
capital or an amount of invested fund."
The expression "months of the Business Year con-
cerned" as contained in paragraph 1 of 4 of Article 7
shall be revised as "months of the business year con-
cerned for Juridieal Person and months of the Business
Term of its year for Natural Person and the same Article
shall be revised as "5 of Article 7".
4 of Artiole 7
2.
The amount of capital of the respective year of
natural person as mentioned in paragraph 2 of Artiole 7
of

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.98)
of Maohine Teol Manufacturing Industry Law shall be
caloulated on the basis of the monthly average for
each month-end in the preceding year.
The fixed capital as mentioned in the preceding
paragraph shall be calculated on the basis of the value
of land, house, maohine, tools and other facilities
used directly for manufacturing machine tools.
In case where the amount of capital of natural
person is calculated, the calculation shall be made on
the basis of the provisions of preceding Article.
Article 8
When persons are about to obtain exemption from
the income tax or the tax of corporation in accordance
with the provisions of Article 7 of the Machine Tool
Manufacturing Industry Law, they shall file applioation
with the competent tax offices at the time of the pre-
sentation of report on the amount of incomes or capital
fund in accordance with the provisions of Article 34 of
the Income Tax Law or Article 18 of the Corporation
Tax Law reepectively.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, a statement
of accounts distinguishing the incomes, accruing from
enterprises which are exempt from the income tax and
the corporation tax, from other incomes if there are
any such incomes or other incomes shall be added.
2 of Art1cle 8
When persons are about to obtain exemption from
the

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
the business.profit tax in accordance with the pro-
visions of Article 7 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law, they shall file application with the com-
petent tax offices at the time of the presentation oaf
report on the amount of net profits in accordance with
the provisions of Article 15 or Article 16 of the
Business Profit Tax Law.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, a state-
ment of accounts distinguishing the net profits
acoruing from enterprises which are exempt from the
Business Tax from other net profits if there are any
such net profits or other net profits, shall be added.
3 of Article 8
The soale of the limited company to be enterpriser
of manufacturing machine tools mentioned in paragraph
1 of Article 10 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law shall be that which corresponds to more
than the soale as stipulated in the provisions of
2 of Artiole 5.
The expression "Machine Tool Manufacturing Companies"
as contained in paragraph 1 of Article 13 shall be
revised as "Limited Companies to be Enterprisers of
Manufacturing Machine Tools".
The expression "Machine Tool Manufacturing Companies"
as montioned in paragraph 2 of Article 15 shall be re-
vised as "Enterprisers of Manufacturing Machine Tools".
Artiole

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
5
Article 18
The enterpriser of Manufaqturing Maohine Tools as
mentioned in Article 13-ofthe Machine Tool Manufactur-
ing Industry Law shall be those who conduct the en-
terprise with the facilities more than the scale sti-
pulated in the provisions of 2 of Artiole 5.
Article 19
The loss to be compensated in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 21 of the Machine
Tool Manufacturing Industry Law shall be those losses
to be sustained ordinarily.
When a person who desires to claim the compensation
for loss, in case where the loss is sustained in conse-
quence of the order for expansions, reform or change
of equipment provided in the provisions of 2 of
Article 19 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry
Law he shall claim it after discontinuation of the use
of equipment, and in case there is a loss sustained in
consequence of the order concerning study, trial manu-
facture or other manufacture on the basis of the pro-
visions of the same Article, or order for the transfer
of factory, or order stipulated in the provisions of
Artiole 20 of the same law, he shall claim it after
the matters of the order concerned are performed, however,
the loss shall be claimed each time when loss 1s
sustamed in accordance with the provisions of the
Commoree and Industry Minister, the War Minister or
the

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
or the Navy Minister who made the order coneerned, or
in the case of juridical person, the loss shall be claimed
after the end of the every business year finished,
in the oase of natural person the loss shall be claimed
at the end of every year.
Article 20
In case where the Commerce and Industry Minister
make order stipulated in the provisions of 3of Article
21 or 4 of Article 21 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law, he shall designate the period of time
to disouss among persons concerned concerning the
liability of expenses or the equivalent.
When it is impossible to make discussion or to
conclude the discussion within the period of time as
provided in the preceding paragraph, the persons
concerned may apply for decision stipulated in the
provisions of 5 of Article 21 of the Maohine Tool
Manufacturing Industry Law after the termination of
the period of time.
When the Commeroe and Industry Minister made the
order as stipulated in the first paragraph, he shall
make it known to the other party conoerning this
decision.
Artiole 21
"In the case where the Commerce and Industry
Mimister made the order stipulated in the provisions
of

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
7
:of the first paragraph of 6 of Article 21 of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law, he shall
designate the period of time to make discussion among
the persons concerned concerning the price of transfer
or other conditions for transfer.
When it is impossible to make discussion or to con-
clude the discussion within the period of time as men-
tionedvin the preceding paragraph, the persons concerned
may file the application for decision stipulated in
the provisions of paragraph 6 of Article 21 of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law to the Commerce
and Industry Minister after the termination of the
period of time.
When the Commerce and Industry Minister made the
order as stipulated in the first paragraph, he shall
make it known to the other party concerning this
decision.
Article 22
When the Commerce and Industry Minister make
decision for the assignment of machines or tools, or
the lease in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 2 of 7 of Article 21 of the Machine Tool
Manufaoturing Industry Law, he shall designate the
price of assignment or the rental price and the time
of the payment on the decision.
Article 23
Persons who are to pay the price of transfer or the
rental

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
rental prioe designated on the decision shall deposit
the price of transfer or the rental price in the cases
enumerated hereunder.
1. When the person who is to accept the price
of transfer or the rental price refused its receipt,
or is impossible to accept it.
2. When an action 1s brought in accordance with
the provisions of 9 of Article 12 of the Machine Tool
Manufacturing Industry concerning the price of transfer
or the rental price.
Article 24
When the payment or deposit of the price of
assignment or rental price (in the case of installment
payment shall be the first payment of the rental price)
1s not settled by the time of payment for the price
of transfer or the rental price of transfer or the
rental price may give the notification to those who
is to pay the price of transfer or rental price con-
cerning the matters to make the payment or deposit
within the fixed period not exceeding 30 days.
When the payment or deposit is not settled within
the period as mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
the decision shall lose its force.
Artiole 25
In the case where the decision was made for the
transfer of tools or machines, the owmership shall
be transferred when the whole payment or deposit of
the

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
the price of transfer was settled.
In the case where the decision was made for the
lease of tools or machines, the right to the lease
shall become valid when the payment or deposit of
the whole (in the ease of installment, shall be
the whole of the first payment of the rental) of the
rental payment was settled.
Article 26
When the Commerce and Industry Minister obtained
a written applioation for decision provided in the
provisions of paragraph 2 of Artiole 20 or paragraph
2 of Article 21, he shall deliver the copy of the
written application to the other party and make order
to file the written answer in designating the period.
Article 27
When the Commerce and Industry Minister is to
make decision in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 of 7 of Article 21 of the Machine Tool
Manufacturing Industry Law, he shall give an opportunity
to file the written opinion to the persons concerned
who made assignment or lease in designation of the
term.
Adjudication or decision shall be accompanied with
reasons.
The copy of the written adjudication or
written decision shall be delivered to the persons
concerned in co-operation, utilization, transfer or
lease.
Article 29

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10-
Article 29
The publio announcement of adjudication or
decision shall be made in the Official Gazette.
Art1ole 30
In case where the payment or deposit of the price
of transfer or rental price is not made within the
period of time as mentioned in the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Article 24, the person who is to accept
the price of transfer or rental price shall file as
soon as possible to the Commerce and Industry Minister
a report showing that effect accompanied with the
notice certifying the fact that notice of the payment
or deposit was made.
Article 31
Necessary matters concerning adjudication or de-
cision other than those stipulated in the provisions
of this ordinance shall be designated by order.
Article 32
In accordanoe with the provisions of 14 of Article
21 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law, the
order may be made to write off for depreciation of the
equipment belonging to the enterpriser of manufacture
of machine tools until the written off amount runs
up into 60 per cont of the value of the equipment con-
cerned.
Artiale

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
Article 33
The purpose as mentioned in 14 of Article 21 of
the Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law shall be
those enumerated.hereunder.
1. The purpose for examination or study.
2. The purpose for an increase or improvement of
the equipment.
3. The purpose for the improvement of the
manufacturing technique of machine tools.
Article 34
The reserve fund stipulated in the provisions of
14 of Article 21 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law cannot be used without obtaining the
permission of the Commerce and Industry Minister.
Supplementary Rules
This Ordinance shall be enforced as from the day
of the enforcement of the Law No. 70 of 1941.
The term mentioned in paragraph 2 of the supple-
mentary rules of Law No. 70 of 194l shall be good
for five years as from the day of its enforcement.
The provisions of Article 21, Article 26, Article
28, Article 29 or Article 31 shall be applied to the
transfer or acceptance of the enterprise between the
person who conduots enterprise of manufacturing
paehine tools in aocordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of the supplementary
rules

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
- 12 -
rules of the same law.
(For Reference)
Extraot from the Ordinance pertaining to the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law En-
forcement Regulations promulgated as Imperial
Ordinance No. 500 on July 9, 1938.
Article 4
The soale as mentioned in the proviso of paragraph
1 of Article 3 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law shall be equipment with 200 machine tools
as facilities for one factory. When the machine tools
as specified by decree are to be manufactured, however,
the scale shall be equipment with 50 machine tools
as facilities for the manufacture.
The machine tools to be the facilities as mentioned
in the foregoing paragraph shall be the machine tools
as mentioned in Article 1.
Paragraph 1 of Article 6
When machine tool manufacturing companies which
are equipped with 200 or more machine tools as facili-
ties are about to add 3o0 or more machine tools to
their facilities or effect a change in their facilities
which involve 30 or more machine tools, they shall ob-
tain the permission as mentioned in Article 6 of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law in regard to
the machine tools to be added or the machine tools
involved in the intended change and other facilities.
This rule alse holds good in cases wherein machine
tool

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
13
一
tool manufacturing companies which are equipped with
less than 200 machine tools as facilities are about
to add 10 or more machine tools to their facilities or
effect a change in their facilities which involves 10.
or more machine tools.
Paragraph 1 of 2 of Article 7
The amount of capital fund of the business year
as mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the Machine
Tool Manufacturing Industry Law shall be calculated on
an monthly average of the a ount of paid up share
capital and the amount of the reserve fund at the end
of each month.
Pararraph 1 of 4 of Article 7
With respect to the amount corresponding to 1o
per cent of the capital fund annually es mentioned in
paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the Machine Tool Manufac-
turing Industry Law, the calculation shall be made in
what the capital fund multiplied by months of the
business year concerned and divided by 12, multiplied
by 10 per cent.
Article 8
When persons are about to obtain exemption from
the juridical person tax or business profit tax in
accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law, they shall
fil applioation with the competent tax offices at the
time of the presentation of report on the amount of
incomes or net profits in accordance with the provisions
of Article 18 of the Corporation Tax Law or Article 15
of

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
-- 14 -
of tha Business Profit Tax Law.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, a statement
of accounts distinguishing the incomes or net profits,
accruing from enterprises which are exempt from the
juridical person tax and business profit tax, from
other incomes or net profits if there are any such
other incomes or net profits, shall be added.
Article 12
The amount of paid up share capital, as mentioned
in the foregoing two articles, shall be calculated on
the basis of the monthly average for each month-end in
tre business year concerned.
Pararanh 1 of Article 13
In the case of the foregoing Article, the paid up
share cepital of the machine tool manufacturing com-
panies which conduct enterprises of manufacturing machine
tools with the facilities concerned and other enterprises
shall be calculated by multinlying the total amount of
paid-up share capital by the figure representing the
ratio of the value of the assets wrich form the basis of
the amount of profita accruing from the machine tool
manufacturing enterprises conducted with the facilities
concerned to the value of the total assets.
Paragraph 2 of Article 15
The reports on imports shall be presented in the
names of the machine tool manufacturing companies.
Extract

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.90)
o 
15
Extract from the Rev ion in the Hachine
o1
Da Promulgated as
Paracranh 2 and paragraph 3 of the Bupnlementery Rules
A person who e uc  e enter rise of nanufacturi.
achine tool or who has succeeded to the enternrfse at
the prosont time corresoonding to the rovisions of the
roviso of paragraph 1 of Article  of the former re u-
lations at the time of the oree   t prlinice
may conduct t.e enter ri e vih  e limits of e enter-
prise (regardin to enter rise of w ich equloment is
under constructio :t  e  oree et of is low,
the limits f ctr ise mcans e equipent concerned
and incl1ated by the' order) having been
conjlucted before te do of tie promulgation of this law
1 s ite of e rvised povislon or the e Article
vithin t e prescribed ti c designated by the Imperial
Ordinance in accoraance vit the rovisions of she order.
A person who hs t e resent timender constru-
tion of t e ecuipment or w o h:s succecaed to the equip-
ment at te time oi eni orcement of tris lw for the pur-
pose of concuctnis of mahine tol anu-
facturingrrrpnding totheprovisions of
pro ptioe of the Toer regu
latterprise within he limits of
the enter priped by  er in spite of the
revised provisions of the aeme Artiole within the pres-
provisions of the order.
in

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.81)
to eanstsened the matter eonesrning vovieien in
Grtsaense pertsining to enforeement of the Nackine
Taal Namntacturing Indnstry Lew, and heroby eause the
same te be premulgated.
Imperial sige Nammal
Impersal Soal
Revember. 28, 1941.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.94)
● 8
Imkmstey Law shall be the equipment with 200 machine teels
as faeilities fer one factory. When the machine tools
as spesirsed by deores are manufactured, hovever, the
seale shall be equipment wish 50 machine tools as
fasilities for the manufacture.
The mmehine tools to be the facilities as mentioned
im the foregoing paragraph shall be the maohine tools
as mentioned in Article 1.
The expression *Hachine Tool Manufaoturing Industry
Companies as contained in paragraph 1 of Artiole 6
aball be revised as "Enterpriser of Mamufaeturing
Machine Tools" and the expression "10 or more machine
toels" as "s or more machine tools".
The expression "Capital Fund of the Business Year"
as contained in paragraph 1 of 2 of Artiole 7 shall
be revised as "Capital Fund of the Business Year of
Juridical Person" and the expression "an amount of paid-
up share capital" as "an amount of paid-up share
empital or an amount of invested fund."
The expression "months of the Business Year con-
cerned* as contained in paragraph 1 of 4 of Arsiole 7
shall be revised as *menths of the businees year con-
sermed fer Juridical Persen and months of the Business
Term of Its year for Natural Persof and the same Artiels
shall be revised as "s ef Artiole 7".
The amount of capital of the respeotive year of
matural pereon as mentsemed in peragraph 2 of Artiele 

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.92)
● 8 一
of Meckime Teel Manufacturing Industry Law shall be
ealemlased on the basis of the monthly average for
each nenthe-end in the preceding year.
The fixed capital as mentioned in the precoding
paragraph shall be caleulated on the besis of the valme
of land, house, meshine, tools and other fasilitles
ssed direetly fer mamufacturing mmchine tools.
In ease where the amount of capital of natural
person is caloulated, the caloulatien shall be made on
the basis of the provisions of preceding Article.
Artialan
When persone are about to obtain exemption from
the inoome tax or the tax of corporation in accordance
with the provlsions of Artiole 7 of the Machine Toel
Manufaoturing Industry Lav, they shall file applioation
with the competent tax offises at the time of the pre-
semtation of report on the smoumt of inoomes or capital
fume in accordanse with the provisions of Artiele 34 of
the Ineome Tax Lew or Artiele 18 of the Corporation
Tax Law respeetively.
In the ease of the foregoing paragraph, a statement
ef ascsunts distinguishing the insomes, aeeruing frem
enterprises whish are amemps from the imeame tax and
the corporation tax, frem ether incomes if there are
amy sech inocess er ether incemes shall be added.
Whan persons are ahous te sbtain exemption frem

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.92)
●  ●
the business prefit tax in aecerdanse with the pre-
visiens of Artiele 7 of the Nechine Teel Hamufasturing
Industry Law, they shall file applieation with the com-
petemt tax offiess at the time of the prssentation f
repert en ths amount of net profits in accordanse with
the provisiens of Artiole 15 or Arsiele 16 of the
Business Profit Tax Lav.
In the ease of the foregoing paragraph, a state-
memt ef accounts distinguishing the nes profits
aseraing frem enterprises whieh are exsmpt from the
Business Tax from other net profits if there are any
sueh net profits or other net profits, shall be added.
of Artiale
The seale of the limited company to be enterpriser
of manufacturing machine tools mentioned in paragraph
1 of Artiole 10 of the Maohine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law shall be that which corresponds to more
than the soale as stipulated in the provisions of
2 of Artiole 5.
The expression "Nachine Tool Hanufacturing Companies"
as eontained in paragraph 1 of Artiole 13 shall be
revised as "Lamited Companies to be Entorprisers of
Nemufaeturing Machine Tools".
The expressien "Machine Tool Vamufacturing Gompanies"
as mentiened in paragraph 2 of Artiele 15 sball be re-
vised as "Materprisers of Nassfacturing Kachine Tuols".
Artiele

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.95)
一5-
Art10l020
The enterpriser of Manufaoturing Haohine Tools as
mentioned in Article 13 of the Machine Tool Manufaotur-
ing Industry Law shall be those who conduot the en-
terprise with the faollities more than the soale sti-
pulated in the provisions of 2 of Artiele 5.
art10le19
The lose to be compenented in aooordanoe with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Artiole 21 of the Maohine
Tool Manufaoturing Industry Law shall be those losses
to be sustained ordinarily.
When a person who desires to elaim the compensation
for loss, in case where the loss is sustained in conse-
quence of the order for expansions, reform or ohange
of equipment provided in the provisions of 2 of
Artiole 19 of the Maohine Tool Manufaoturing Industry
Law he shall olaim it after disoontinuation of the use
of equipment, and in case there is a loss sustained in
consequenoe of the order concerning study, trial manu-
facture or other manufacture on the basis of the pro-
visions of the same Artiole, or order for the transfer
of factory, or order stipulated in the provisions of
Artiele 20 of the same law, he shall alaim it after
the mattere of the order coneerned are performed, however,
the loss shall be alaimed eash time when loss is
sustained in accordanse wish the provisions of the
Cemmeree and Industry Minister, the Wer Minister e

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.95)
- 6 -
or the Mavy Minister who made the order coneerned, or
in the case of juridical person, the loss ahall be olaimed
after the end of the every business year finished,
in the caes of natural person the loss shall be claimed
at the end of every year.
Artiale 20
In case where the Commeroe and Industry Minister
make order stipulated in the provisions of 3 of Artiole
21 or 4 of Artiole 21 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing
Industry Law, he shall designate the period of time
to disouss among persons concerned concerning the
liability of expenses or the equivalent.
When it is impossible to make discusslon or to
oonelude the disoussion within the period of time as
provided in the preceding paragraph, the persons
concerned may apply for decision stipulated in the
provisions of B of Artiole 21 of the Machine Tool
Manufaoturing Industry Law after the termination of
the period of time.
When the Commeroe and Industry Minister made the
order as stipulated in the first paragraph, he shall
make it kmown to the other party conoerning this
deoision.
Art10l0_21
In the case where the Commaroe and Industry
Mamketer made the crder stipulated in the provisions

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.94)
- 7 -
of the first paragraph of 6 of Artiole 21 of the
Machine Tool Manufaoturing Industry Law, he mhall
designate the period of time to make discussion among
the pereons coneerned conoerning the prioe of tranafer
or other conditions for transfer.
When it is impossible to make disoussion or to oon-
olude the disoussion within the period of time as men-
tioned.in the preceding paragraph, the pereons conoerned
may file the application for decision stipulated in
the provisions of paragraph 6 of Artiole 21 of the
Machine Tool Manufacturing Induetry Law to the Commeroe
and Industry Minister after the tormination of the
period of time.
When the Commeroe and Industry Minister made the
order as stipulated in the fi st paragrapk, he shall
make it knowm to the other party conoerning this
decisien.
Artiala 22
When the Commeroe and Industry Minister make
desistem for the assignment of maohines or tools, or
the lease in assordanee with the provisions of para-
graph 2 of 7 of Artiole 21 of the Machine Tool
Mammfacturing Industry Law, he shall designate the
price of assignment or the rental price and the time
of the payment on the decision.
Antiala 22
Peresns who are to pay the price of trensfer or the
rontel

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.93)
—  -
semtel priee designated on the decisien shall deposls
the prise of transfer or the rental price in the eases
omerated herounder.
1. When the person who is to asoept the price
of transfer or the rental prise refused ite receipt,
er is impossible to accept it.
2. Mmem am action is brought in accordanoe with
the provisions of 9 of Artiole 12 of the Machine Tool
Manufaeturing Industry concerning the price of transfer
or the rental prios.
Artiala 24
Whew the payment or deposit of the price of
assignment or rental price (in the case of imstallment
payment shall be the firat payment of the rental price)
Is not settled by the time of payment for the price
of transfer or the rental priee of transfer or the
remtal price may give the notifieation to those who
1s te pay the priee of transfer or rental price con-
cerning the matters to make the payment or deposit
within the fixed peried not exsseding 30 days.
Whss the paymemt or deposis is not settled within
the period as mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
the desisiom shall lose its fores.
Ar1ala25
In the ease where the deeision was made for the
sswmster of teels or maskimes, the ewmerahip shall
se transferred when the whele payment or depesit of

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.92)
— ● -
the prase of transfer wes settled.
In the case where the decisism was made for the
lease of teels or machines, the right to the lease
shall beeeme valld when the payment or deposis of
the whele (in the sase of installment, shall be
the whele of the firet payment of the rental) of the
remtal payment was settled.
Arttale
When the Commeree and Industry Minister obtained
a writtem application for deoision provided in the
previsioas of paragraph 2 of Artiele 20 or paragraph
2 of Artiole 2l, he shall deliver the copy of the
written applleation to the other party and make order
to file the written answer in designating the period.
Artiale 27
When the Commeroe and Industry Minister is to
make deeision in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 of 7 of Artiele 21 of the Machine Tool
Mamufasturing Industry Law, be shall give an opportumity
to file the written epinion to the persons conserned
whe made assigamens or lease in designation of the
torm.
Adjudicatien er desisien shall be accompanied with
me. The eopy of the written adjudication or
wristem dssisieh shall be delivered to the persons
cemsermed in co-eperation, usilisation, transfer or
leass.
Arsiale 2

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.94)
- 10-
Actiala
The publie announcement of adjudisation or
desision shall be made in the Offieial Gasette.
Artiale 30
In case where the payment or deposit of the price
of transfer or rental price is not made within the
period of time as mentioned in the provisions of
paragragh 1 of Artiole 24, the person who 1s to accept
the prioe of tranefer or rental price shall file as
soon as possible to the Commerce and Industry Minister
a report showing that effect accompanied with the
notice certifying the fact that notloe of the payment
or doposit was made.
1rt10le 31
Neceseary matters concerning adjudioation or de-
cision other than those stipulated in the provisions
of this ordinanoe shall be desigmated by order.
Artiale 32
In accordance with the provisions of 14 of Artiele
21 of the Machine Tool Manufacturing Industry Law, the
order may be made to write off for depreclation of the
equipment belonging to the enterpriser of menufacture
of mmchine toels until the written off amount rums
up into 60 per cont of the value of the equipment oon-
cerned.
Artiade

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.96)
- 11 -
Artiala_35
The purpose as mentioned in 14 of Article 21 of
the Maohine Tool Manufaoturing Industry Law shall be
those enumerated.hereunder.
1. The purpose for exnmination or study.
2. The purpose for an increaso or improvement of
the equipment.
3. The purpose for the improvement of the
manufncturing technique of machine tools.
Artiole 34
The reserve fund stipuleted in the provisions of
14 of Artiole 21 of the nonine Tool Mnnufaoturing
Industry Law oannot be used without obtninin the
permlssion of the Co merc n Inlustry Minister.
Supplementary Rulea
This Ordinance shall be enforced as from the day
of the enforcement of the Lew No. 70 of 1941.
The term mentioned in paragraph 2 of the supple-
mentary rules of Law No. 70 of 194l shall be good
for five yenrs as from the day of 1ts enforcement.
The provislons of Artiole 21, Article 26, Artiole
28, Artiole 29 or Artiole 31 shall be applied to the
transfer or acoeptanoe of the enterprlse between the
person who conduets enterpriae of manufacturing
machino tools in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of the supplementary
rules

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
- 12 -
rules of the sane lew.
(For Referenoe)
Extraet from the Ordinanoe pertaining to the
Machine Teol Hanufacturing Industry Lew En-
foroement Regulations promulgated as Imperinl
Ordinance No. 500 on July 9, 1938.
Artiole4
The seale as mentioned in the proviso of paragraph
1 of Artiole 3 of the Maohine Tool anufaoturing
Industry Law shall be equipment with 200 machine tools
as faoilitles for one factory. When the machine tools
as speoified by deoree are to be manufaotured, however,
the soale shall be equlpment with 50 machine toole
as facilities for the sanufacture.
The maohine tools to be the faollities as mentioned
in the foregoing paragraph shall be the machine tools
as mentioned in Article 1.
Para ranh 1 of Article 6
Whon maohinc tool manufaoturing companles whioh
are oqulpped with 2o0 or more maohine tools as faoil1-
ties are about to add 300 or more machine tools to
their faoilities or effect a change in thcir facilities
whieh involve 30 or more maohine tools, they shall ob-
tain the permission as mentioned in Artiole 6 of the
Machine Tool Manufaoturing Industry Law in rogard to
the machine tools to be added or the maohine tools
imvelved in the intended change and other faoilities.
This mke alse helds good in cases wherein machine
8001

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.93)
teel mamnfeetering companies which are equipped with
less then s00 machine tools as faellities are about
so asd 10 or more machine tools to their facilities or
offeot a change in their faoilities which involves 10
or more machine tools.
Paraaranh 1 of 2 of Artiale ?
The amount of capital fund of the businoss year
as mentioned in paragraph 2 of irtiule ? of the Machine
Tool Manufaoturing Industry Law shali be oaloulated on
an monthly average of the a ount of pald u share
eapital and the amount of the reserve fund at the end
of eash month.
Pararanh 1 or 4 of Artiole 7
with respeot to the amount correspondieg to 10
per oent of the oapital fund annually "s entioned in
paragraph 2 of Artiole 7 of he achine To1 anufao
turing Industry Law, the onloulntion shall be made in
what the capital fund wultipliod by months of the
business year conosrned and divided by 12, multiplied
by 10 per cent.
ArtialeA
When peraons are about to obtain exemption from
the juridieal pereen tax or business profit tax in
acsordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the
Mashime Tool Mamufmoturing Induntry Lay, they shall
file appllomtion with the oom etent tax offices at the
sime of the prementation of report on the amount of
imeemes or mes profits in accordance with she provistems
of Artsele 18 of the Corporation Tax Law or Artiele 15
of

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.88)
- 14 -
of the Busineso rofit Tax Law.
In the cace of the foregoing paragraph, a statement
of accounts distinguishins the inoomes or net  rofits,
acoruing from enterprices w ioh are exempt from the
Juridical porson tax and bus nesa profit tax, from
other incomes or net rofite 1f t ere  re any such
other inoomes or net rofits, shall be sdded.
Article 12
The amoun? of paia un share capltal, s mentioned
in the foregoinr two article, shall be calouleted on
the basls of the mont ly aver e for cnor montt-end in
te businces year concerned.
Lararan. 1 20 rtiale 13
In the coe of wol releo
ahare car ste of r cohtne ol monu oturlnr cor
panlee w ler ceuet errrreer of nur orurlne veehine
toolo vt the frellitace coorn  other entorrlsee
shall be caloulated  al'1 lyir c otal amount of
paid-up share oa itel b t'e i ure poorecentine the
ratio of the val e of  e seete v loh for the besle of
the amount of profiic nooruin fro
he achine tool
manufeoturing enterortces con ucted vith the facllities
concerned to the value of e totel ansetn.
Eeraeraoofrtiole 10
The reports on impor's shall be p esented in the
names of the maohine tool manufaoturing comnaniea.
xtraot

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.90)
16
Extraot from the Reviaion in the Maohine
Tool Kanufeoturing Industry Law Promulgated as
Law No. 70 on Haroh 15, 1941
Parasraph 2 and paracranh 3 of the Supplementary Rulee
A person who conduots t e enterprise of manufacturing
machine tools or who hap succcsded to the enterorise at
the present time corresponai to the rovislone f the
proviso of paregraph 1 of rticle ? of the former regu-
lations at the time of te onforoe ent of this orlinance
may conduot the enterprine with a t  limite of te enter
priee (regarding to he enteraprine of w lch equlpment is
under conatruction at t e tl e  force ent of t is low,
the limite of tre enter rine moanr  e cqut ent coneerned
and ineludine thore sti lcted by te oer trviny been
consucted before tre so of  pouul tl of tris y
1ite of  povioeoviclone canerticlc
within t e preeortbed tie deetcneted be  e Troerial
ordinance in sccorlance ut
tervlore re order.
A peroon wo h o pooe tise n er construe
tion of  e equi rent or v o bs eure ae to the cquip-
ment at e tise of onforce ent of t is l for the pur
pose of conduotine the anterprise of machine to 1 manu-
facturing inluatry corresnonlin to e revislon of
proviso of parasraph 1 of Article 3 of  e former regu-
lations may conauct the enterprlse wthin the limits of
the enterprlse stipulated by the order in epite of the
revised provislons of tho came Artiole within the pres-
oribed time designated by the Imperial rdinance as men-
tioned in the preceding paragraph in accordance with the
provisions of the order.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despateh dated
June 3, 1942 from the Embassy at
Tokyo
REVISION IN PRICE CONTROL ORDINANCE
ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS
(Translated from the Official Gazette of
October 16, 194l, by the Okuyama Service)
Cabinet Ordinance No. 24
The following revision shall be made in the
Price Control Ordinance Enforcement Regulations:
October 16, 1941
Prime Minister,
Prince Fumimaro Konoe
No. 9 of Article 15 shall be revised as follows:
9. The buying price and the selling price of
raw materials for exoort goods designated by the
distribution organ in accordance wit: the provisions
of Article 1 of the Regulations Controlling the
Distribution of Raw Materials for Exoort Goods
(Commerce and Inaustry Ministry Ordinance No. 106 of
1940), and the receiving price adopted by the trustee
when receiving goods from the distribution organ, in
case the 1mport of the designated raw materials for
export goods is entrusted by the distribution organ.
The following number shall be added after No. 11
of the same Article:
12. The buying price and the selling price of
the designated goods by the adjustment organ in
accordance with the provisions of 2 of Article 10
of the Trade Control Orainance Enforcement Regula-
tions (Commerce and Industry Ministry and Agricultural
and Forestry Ministry Ordinance No. 9 of 1941), and
the receiving price adopted by the adjustment organ,
in

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.93)
2
in case the adjustment organ entrust others with
export
(For Reference)
Extract from the Price Control Ordinance
Enforoement Regulations Promulgated As"
Cabinet Ordinance No. 13 on October 19,
1939
Artielor15 - The prices mentioned in No. 3 of
Article 12 of the Control Ordinance shall.be those
mentioned hereunder:
 9. The buying price and the selling price of
the designated export goods by the control organ in
ocondance with the provisions of Article 1 of the
Begulations Controlling the Distribution of Exoort
Cooda and Raw Materials for Export Goods (Commerce
nt Induatry Ordinance No. 106 of 1940), and the re-
chving price adopted by the control organ, in case
tho control organ entrusts othere witr the export of
the designated export goods, as well as the buying
price and the selling price of the designated raw
materials for export goods by the distribution organ
in accordanoe with the provisions of Article 6 of
theameordinane and the receiving price adopted
by he trasteer when receiving goods from the distri-
bution gan, in case the import of the designated
rmaaa forexport goods is entrusted by the
rabatron organ
eo pre a
L7

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclesure No. 6 so Despateh dated
June 3, 1942 from the Embassy at
Tokyo
REVISION IN PRICE CONTAOL ORDINANCE
EHTORGTHENT REOULLATIONS
(Translated from the Official Gazette of
Ootober 16, 194l, by the Okuyama Service)
Gabinat Ordinance Na. 21
The following revision shall be mede in the
Price Control Ordinance Enforcement egulations:
October 16, 1941
Prime  iniater,
Prince umim re Yonoc
No. 9 of Artiole 1s shall be revined as follovs:
9. The buying price end the selling price of
raw materiale for export goods decignated by the
dietribution organ in cocordance wit. the provislons
of Artiole 1 of the eculatione Controllinr the
Distribution of Raw "aterials for  xrort Goods
(Commeree and Inaustry vinistry rdinance o. 1 6 of
1940), and the receiving price edopted by the trustee
when receiving goode from the listribution organ, in
omse the import of the deslgnated raw materiels for
export goods is entrusted by the istribution organ.
The following number shall be added after No. 1l
of the same Artiole:
l2. The buying price and the nelling price of
the desigmated goods by the adjuatment organ in
assemveenee wit the provisione of ? of Artiole 10
of tks Trade Control Ordinanoe Enforoement Tegula-
tioms (Commeroe and Induetry Minlstry and Agrioultural
and Forestry Ministry Ordananoe No. 9 of 194l), and
she ressiving price adopted by the adjustment organ,
2n

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.93)
2
in case the adjustment organ entrust othere with
export.
(For Reference)
Extraot from the Price Control Ordinance
Enforooment egulations Promulgated As
Cabinet Ordinance o. 13 on Dotober 19.
1939.
Artiole 15 - The rices mentioned in No. 3 of
Artlole 12 of the Control rdinance shall be those
mentioned hereunder:
9. Te buying rice nd ve el ins price of
the deolgnated exeort roole by the e ntrol organ in
accordance wit tre r vislons oticle 1 of the
egulatione Controlin  rib  o x or
Goode  w aterlale for mort  Conerce
and laluctry rdine ce o. 2 of 1 4 ), and the re
ceivins riee ndeted e  rol orran, ds cese
tre control orga entruats othere vit
the export of
the designated export o e,  wel as  e buying
prloe ent tre selline price or  a esicneted raw
materlals for ex ort gools by the dietribution organ
in nccordance with the prov:slons of Article 6 of
the same Crdinance and tre receiving price adopted
by the trustee when rooeiving goods from the diatri-
bution organ, in case the import of t e designated
raw materials for export goods is ontrusted by the
distribution organ.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.93)
REVINION IN THE GAGE PERTAINING TO THE
(Tranalated freu the orriolal Gazette of
Revember 10, 19el) by the Ckuyame Servics
The Sonth Sea Xalanda Coxarmment Ordinanae Fa. 41
Revision mball be made in the case pertaining to
the entry, stay and departure of aliens as follows!-
September 1, 1941
Governor of the Fouth ea
Islands
Shunsuke Kondo
Mumber 6 and the cubsequent numbers of Article 2
shall be revised as follows:
6. Those who viclate the stipuletions concerning
the period of validity or landing plece speciried in
the vise or transit certificate lesued by any of the
competent autherities of this country aboard.
7. Those who vielate the provisione of paragraph
2 of Artiele S.
The passport, the certifioate of nationality or
the mubetisute certificate, speoirled in No. l of the
preeeding paragraph, shali be acooupanied with a
photograph of the alien concerned, and issusd by the
campetent amthorisies of his country or by the
autherities of a country speciried by internatlonal
aengs and vised met more than six months prior to
kis Vamming in thie country by any of the Japamese
sempetont mutheritles aboard, or a transit cortificate
issued by these offieials mentioned above.
the satd vise uhall be cither an entry vise or a
suumese vise. The entry vise shall be valid enly

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.92)
for ene transit through the oountry.
If the Covernor of the outh ea Talands finde it
neoeseary, he may prohibit t alio: who 1 f und to
come within any of t  nusbers of paragraph 1 to
vieit the out ea lslanis.
Paregraph 1 of Artlole  shall e revised as follows:
with reepeot to allanr nt o sesainr a valid paeo
port, a cortiricate of n tlon ll  a ubstitute
cortificate, or in oaner ere conitlons mentloned in
the vise or transit certificnte, ssued by any of the
Japanese overnment competent authorities aboard are
found lapoosible to abl e y. the rior of e ranch
ofrlce of te ut ca Telans overnaent way, u on
finding sufficlent reasons, rant the a  ecial per
mieslon for their entrance into or passage through the
Islande.
The following paragraph shall be adled after pare
graph 5 of Artiole .
In onses where the onlef of the ranoh frice of the
South Sea Islande overnment 1s to grant to aliens the
speclal permission of entrance or transit aocording to
the preceding paragraph, he may designated their stay-
ing period of time and staying place.
Parepraph 3 of Artiole 15 shall be rovised ca follows:
These whe come within any of the folloving numbers
shall be exempted frem the fees ssipulated by the pre-
eefsng twe paragraphs.
L. These whe are wmter 1s yeare of age.
L. these whe are aiven the speskal perasesien by the
Govesmer for ntrense Lste or tenss ge the

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
Islamés on account of a natural calamity or other vis
agor.
3. Those whe have been levied the fees in Japan
proper, Korea, Formosa, Saghalien or Kwantung Leased
Territery and who visit the South Sea Islands Con-
timmously without leaving Japan.
Artiale 17
In case aliene who have entered this oountry de
sire to leave the country they cannot without obtaining
beforehand the permisslon of the chief of the Branch
offioe of the Bouth Scs Ialands Covernsent in charge
of their placce of residence, leave the country.
If allene desire to  tain the permieslon mentioned
in the precediny pare rapy they shall notify the ohief
of the Bra oh Office of thr out en Tslande Sovernment
superintending his residing place, the prearranged time
of doparture from thoir staying lace by tree daye be-
fore in mccordance with For No. 9 as specified by
separate list.
In case the ohler of the ranoh office of the outh
Sea Islands Oovernment gives the permission mentioned in
the preoeding paragraph, he shall, according to Form
No. 10 ms mpecified in separate list, put the stamp of
permission of departure on the paseport, certificete of
nationality or a substitute certirioate, the ohief of
the Bramoh Offiee of the South Sea Ialands Government
shall, in accordanoe with Form No. 1l as stipulated in
the separate list, issue the certificate of departure
and put the etamp of permission of departure.
In eases where the ohief of the Branen Office of
the Seuth Sem Ielands Govermmems ramts aliene the pés

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.92)
1
msemiem of departure fron the ceuntry, he may designate
the leaving place, term of departure, or part or whole
of the course from their residing plaoe to the leaving
place.
When the designation specified in the preceding
paragraph han been ande, e llens concerned cannot,
unlose it ls done in onformity  it the deslrnation,
leave the oountry.
The followine Artiol rsll e adde' after Artiole
17.
2 of Artiole 17. In cn e allenn who have been
givon he lesirnnt on tul: ted b tre provlalone of
paragrnpr  rtielcro ra 4 of e receding
Artiole, find 1: ifricu: t c nfor o he leslnation,
they shall report he chane a reaaone as goon as
poseible to the o lef of  ra or ffice of the
South Sea Islands superintendin t eir resldinF lace.
The ohief of the rane frice of the out ea
Ielande may, upon finding sufficiont reasons for the
applloation made in nocordance witt tre provisione of the
proceding paragraph, ohange te designetion.
To Artlole 19 shall be adied tre following para
graph.
The same shall apply to those who violate the sti-
pulatiens of paragraph 6 of Artiele 5, paragraph 4 of
Artiele 17 or paragreph 2 of 2 of Artiele 17.
the fellowing mamber shall be added after No. 2 of
Artiele 20.
3 theee whe have left this country in vielessem
1

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.91)
●  一
 the previeleas of paregreph 1 of Artiole 17 or whe
e wed to leave this country.
Perm No. 4 shall be revieed ns shown in separate
1308.
Amealementerr Pales
This Ordinanoe ahall be enforoe ur from the day
of its promalgation.
with referenoe to the vise or transit certifloate
whion has been obtained before t e enforcement of thin
ordinanee by aliens who are out of re outh es
Ielands at the time of the enforcemen: of this orainance,
it shall, unless otherwise mentloned therein, good for
one yoar from the date of issue and one entry after the
enforoement of thls ordinancs.
The vlse or transl: certificate posseseed by aliens
who are realding in the out ea Islandet the time
of the enforcement of this ordinance shall become null
and veld when they lenve t is country.
Aliene who heve lef: or desire to depart from
shis country within threr days after the enforoenent of
thie ordinance way mply for the permiesion of depar.
ture by the predetermined date of departure frem the
residing place in aooordance with the provisions of
parmmraph 2 of Artiele 17.
(Ferme are emitted for translatlon, Reiter .5.)
