894A.512 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Taxation. Processing Tax. For Treaties, Conventions, Arrangements, Ect., Add Country Number, Using Smaller Number Of Country For **., November (File 980)
ID: 894A.512-980   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.512-financial-conditions-budget-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DUPLICATE
DCR
Department of State
F E
DCR
FE
894a.512

AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, November 27, 1937.

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that on November 18, Mr. R. Coughlin Taiwan manager of the Anglo-American Direct Tea Trading Company brought up the question of increased taxes for 1936 and 1937 which had been levied on his firm by the Taihoku Tax Office. He presented tax receipts which showed that from 1927 until 1936 his firm had been taxed on a "commission merchant" basis, that taxes had averaged from about 700 to 800 per year during this period, that these taxes had always been paid in December of each year and stated that the taxes were based on information supplied by the firm accompanied by its request for the tax bill in order that the tax figure might be used in determining more accurately the sale price of tea for the season. He stated that in December 1936 the tax office declined to present the bill on the ground that other firms did not pay until spring and the Anglo-American bill would be presented then. Accordingly, on the basis of former payments, the company set aside ¥1000 to meet the tax. However it was not presented

894A.512/1
F/MR

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

presented until September 1937 and amounted to over ¥2500; three times the usual amount.

Mr. Coughlin stated that he paid the tax since he believed that it had been increased because of the "incident" and since he did not wish to antagonize the authorities with strenuous objections in these times. However the New York office of his firm took a different view of the matter and since neither he nor his staff could obtain a satisfactory explanation of the increase he requested the good offices of the consulate in determining the reasons for it.

Since Mr. Coughlin was busy with preparations for leaving for America on November 24, Mr. D. Knight, who will have charge of the company's office during the winter, Mr. Matsuo, interpreter of this office, and I, went by appointment to the tax office on the 20th. We found out that a tax expert had been assigned to the Taihoku office from Tokyo during 1936 and after preliminary investigations decided that Anglo-American was being taxed incorrectly as a "commission merchant" but the tax office officials stated that since the expert had not been permitted to examine the company's books freely, delay was caused in determining the basis on which taxes should be levied. It was further determined that in April 1937 new tax regulations had been promulgated levying national, prefectural, city and city planning taxes all of which had been used in determining Anglo-American tax for 1936 on the basis of sales or consignments

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

consignments of the branch company here to its home office.

Mr. Knight stated that his company did not object to the increased tax or to any taxes which the Japanese Government might levy on the firm, but did object to the delay in presentation of that tax bill and the increase without warning of over 3 times the amount of the former tax. The authorities countered that the government would have been able to present the bill earlier had the company cooperated in furnishing information desired, and that it was under no obligation to inform anyone of changes in tax rates. It was mutually agreed that better cooperation would be given in the future. The Japanese authorities further stated that no return to a "commission merchant" basis could be considered, and that until further notice taxes would continue on the present basis of "sales" to which Mr. Knight offered no objection. The officials asked on what basis the other firms engaged in the trade did business and Mr. Knight replied that he wished he knew too.

Mr. Knight later stated to me that he appreciated the fact that his company had for years operated under very favorable tax rates, which comment was also made by the officials at the time of the interview. Mr. Matsuo explained that in 1927 when Aigbo-American Direct Tea Trading Company's representative Mr. Cowan set up the local branch he accompanied Mr. Cowan to the

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-

the tax office and at that time the "commission merchant" basis for taxes was agreed upon, which rate has continued until the present. Mr. Knight states that during 1936 the company did a consignment business of over ¥1,000,000 and will do two times that amount this year.

Respectfully yours,

Gerald Warner
American Consul.

File No. 370
GW/tkh

2 copies to Department;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
