894A.00 Formosa. Taiwan, Political Affairs., September 16, 1940 - October 9, 1944 (File 1454)
ID: 894A.00-1454   Pages: 15   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.00-formosa-taiwan-political-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
894A.00/28
FILED
SEP 18 1940
894A.00 894A.00

TELEGRAM RECEIVED

AS
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased before being communicated
to anyone. (br)
FROM Tokyo
Dated September 16, 1940
Rec'd 2:09 a.m.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

841, September 16, noon.

It is learned from a source believed to be reliable
that a revolt of Formosan Chinese farmers occurred in
Taiwan on or about August 20 in which more than one hundred
Japanese were killed. The cause of the riot is said to
be recent regulations controlling the production and sale
of rice which were resulting in losses to farmers on account
of low fixed prices and the prohibitions against growing
sugar, a more profitable crop. The riot was reportedly
suppressed mercilessly with large loss of life. Although
no information is available as to the locality of the disturbance, several villages are reported to be involved.

GREW
TFV

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.93)
K

OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL AIR FORCE
APRIL 3 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ORADEMENT OF STATE

TO
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL AIR FORCE
APRIL 1 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

FROM
Tokyo via Shanghai &amp; N.R.
Dated March 28, 1941
Rec'd. 9:35 a.m., 29th

894A.00/29
PS/DB
FILED
APR 8 1941

894a
U
894a

Secretary of State,
Washington,
475, March 28, 3 p.m.
Embassy's despatch 3684, February 15, 1939,
paragraph 2. Hainan Island

Hoshino, President of the Cabinet Planning Board, is reported in the local press to have stated to the press in Taihoku inter alia "because of the limited land space, Formosa's industry appears to me to have reached the zenith of its development. Since Japan is going to develop southward, Formosa's power accumulated in the last 6 years under Japanese and it should be fully utilized. And Formosa as a whole appears to me to be capable of shouldering heavy responsibilities for the realization of the southward policy.

Hainan Island is waiting for development. If the experience in Formosa is utilized, its development, I think, will be surprisingly easy. Hainan Island is important

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- 475, March 28, 3 p. m., from Tokyo via Shanghai &amp; N. R.

important not only as a military base in the south but as a land inviting Japanese activities due to its similarities of formation, customs and topography with Formosa and Japan proper. Its mineral and agricultural prospects are promising. The exportations of Hainan Island as a model of East Asia economic expansion should make clear to third countries the true racial strength and zeal of Japan. Japanese residents on the Island conscious that Japan is a pioneer in East Asia should devote themselves to development activities which will test the ability of Japanese to live in tropical climates without reduction of efficiency and will quickly make the Island valuable to Japan."

Sent to the Department via Shanghai.

GREW.

GW

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS

February 17, 1942.

FE - MMH
LES

1. Reference, last paragraph of memorandum of February 14. Why not?

2. One way to eliminate the existing duplication would be to have prepared within the Department itself a comprehensive memorandum copies of which might be supplied to each of the agencies under reference (and others which may spring up). Another possibility would be to explore what the Department of Commerce and the Department of the Navy may have already available on the subject. One interesting thing for this Department to do would be to find out what exists in the way of secondary literature. The National Geographic Society and the Library of Congress might both be helpful in that connection. - On, we might ask the several interested agencies who are calling on us for data to pool their inquiry &amp; make a joint study of our materials.

PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.87)
Feb. 16

PA/4 - Is this the best way to handle?

M M

AWBER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
MR. HORNBECK
FEB 17 1942
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.92)
PA/H

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

February 14, 1942

CI-L
Mr. McDermott

U-L
Mr. Wilson

FE
Mr. Balrantine (Liaison Officer with the Board of Economic Warfare)

There is attached a memorandum prepared in this Division with regard to certain phases of the preparation of reports relating to the Far East.

It is suggested that, in your discretion, you may care to supply a copy of the memorandum to the office with which you are associated.

27-2-41

DE/R
f/w

GA
FE:Salisbury: ALM

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

February 14, 1942

Several agencies of the United States Government are currently engaged in preparing reports on various aspects of Taiwan, Japan, and have requested the assistance of the Department in the preparation of those reports, apparently without full consultation with each other.

The Division of Military Intelligence of the War Department is preparing a complete survey of Japan which includes a study of Taiwan in its economic, political, social and strategic aspects. The Division of Military Intelligence has requested the Office of the Coordinator of Information to assist it in the preparation of those sections of the survey which relate to social, political and economic conditions. The Board of Economic Warfare is also preparing a report on Taiwan, including a study of economic and social factors, although dealing primarily with the question of bombing objectives.

The Division of Military Intelligence, the Office of the Coordinator of Information, and the Board of Economic Warfare have each requested the Division of Far Eastern Affairs to furnish them copies of reports prepared in our former Consulate at Taihoku. Representatives of the Office of the Coordinator of Information and of the Board of

This Document Must Be Returned To
DCR
194A.00/2-1442
File
DC/R
Anal. 4
Rev. 2

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

of Economic Warfare have separately approached officers of this Division for the purpose of obtaining orally information with regard to Taiwan. A representative of the radio broadcast section of the Office of the Coordinator of Information recently called at the Division to obtain certain information with regard to Taiwan, and subsequently a representative of the research section of the Office of the Coordinator of Information also called to make inquiries about Taiwan. When it was suggested to the member of the broadcast section that he might obtain the information which he desired from the expert on Japanese matters in the research bureau of his own organization, he replied that he had not known that such an officer was attached to the Office of the Coordinator of Information. It is understood that the Office of the Coordinator of Information and the Board of Economic Warfare have not communicated with each other in the preparation of their reports relating to Taiwan.

The Division of Far Eastern Affairs is of course desirous of being as cooperative and as helpful as possible in its association with the officers and agencies under reference. A minor consideration in this regard is the fact that there is seldom available for lending more than one copy of a given report. In most instances the only copy in the Department is the original. Although the original

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

original cannot be removed from the Department, the Far Eastern Division is always glad to have copies made for distribution to other agencies of the Government. However, such reports are frequently from twenty to thirty, or even more, pages in length. (In this connection it may be mentioned that copies of reports of interest are usually supplied upon receipt from the field to the Division of Military Intelligence of the War Department and the Office of Naval Intelligence of the Navy Department). With reference to oral requests for information, as distinct from requests for copies of reports, the thought occurs that some study might be given by the various agencies to the adjusting of such requests in order to avoid duplication of effort.

It is possible that another recent instance in line with the foregoing may be pertinent. This instance concerned information with regard to Thailand. A few days ago a representative of the Office of the Coordinator of Information called on an officer of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs for suggestions for assistance in preparing propaganda to be directed toward Thailand. The representative had not previously had brought to his attention the fact that a memorandum had been prepared in this Division on January 19, 1942, in reply to a request from the Foreign Information Service of the Office of the Coordinator of Information

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-

Information for a firm directive on propaganda for Thailand, nor had he apparently been made acquainted with the fact that Mr. Landon, who is attached to the Office of the Coordinator of Information and who has lived for a period of ten years in Thailand, is well-versed in matters relating to that country.

It is not within the province of this memorandum to suggest ways of eliminating the existing duplication of work indicated above. It is suggested, however, that it is a matter deserving of consideration.

FE: SaYsbury: ALM/MJF/MS

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
89
DC/R
OCL
JJR/K
894A.00/7-2644

# REPORT OF INTERDEPARTMENTAL MEETING
July 26, 1944

FMA Participants:

Mr. Reinstein
Mr. McGuire

Representatives of the War, Navy, Treasury and State Departments met at the Treasury on July 26 to go over a draft financial directive for Japan prepared by the War Department and a draft financial directive for Formosa prepared by the Navy Department.

Some redrafting of the Japan directive was done, with the objective of making it parallel as closely as practicable the German directive.

When it was suggested that the Formosa directive should also be brought in line with the Japan and German directives, Lt. Commander Gluckstadt explained that the Navy felt that conditions in Formosa would be quite different from those faced by the military governments in either Germany or Japan. In the latter countries, the military governments can anticipate utilization of existing administrative organizations under proper supervision. In Formosa, however, practically all administrative positions in both government and industry are held by Japanese, while the population of the country is more than 90% Chinese. It is anticipated that the Chinese will not cooperate with any Japanese authorities after occupation of the country by allied forces. In fact, it is predicted by some that the Chinese will murder those Japanese who do not get out of the country before its occupation. Consequently the Allied Military Government of Formosa, where the Navy has been tentatively assigned primary responsibility, will be required to undertake actual operation of the government and of essential industries, rather than merely supervising existing organizations from the top. Commander Gluckstadt said that for this reason the Navy felt that its directives must be far more detailed and comprehensive than the Army's directive for Germany or Japan.

It was agreed that this view was probably sound. Detailed consideration of the Formosa directive was postponed until the next meeting.

FMA:FPMcG:DSM
8/3/44

Different at any rate
11R
Anal 15
Rev
Cat JC

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

CONFIDENTIAL

No. 3042

Subj: Conditions in Formosa.

Chungking, October 9, 1944.

Office of EAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MID-DATE 1944
Department of State

MID-FCTL-1
ONL-SA-2 CAR
DEC - 1 1944

694A.00/10-944

CS/D 894A.00/10-944

DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

Referring to the Embassy's despatch 3029, October 2, 1944, "Formation of Formosa Problems Investigation Committee", I have the honor to enclose a copy of a report entitled "Political Conditions in Formosa" which was prepared by an officer of the Office of War Information, Chungking, on the basis of an interview had with Mr. HSIEH Nan-kuang, a section chief in the Chinese Military Affairs Commission. Mr. Hsieh is also a member of the Formosa Investigation Committee, the formation of which was reported in the Embassy's reference despatch.

Respectfully yours,

C. E. Gauss

Enclosure: ✓
Copy of a report entitled "Political Conditions in Formosa".
Ozalid original to the Department.
800-Formosa
EFD/ept

DIVISION OF
TERRITORIAL STUDIES
DEC 1 1944
77C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
POLITICAL CONDITIONS IN FORMOSA
From an interview with Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang, Chungking, Oct. 2, '44)

Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang (朴安人), Section Chief &amp; Acting Chief
Secretary of the Institute for International Problems of the
Chinese National Military Council, was invited to the Office of
the CHINA DIVISION, O.W.I., by Mr. Fisher to talk about Formosa.

Mr. Hsieh is known in China as an expert on Formosa, since
he was born there and seems to be in charge of political affairs
for Formosa in his present Office. His own connection with the
Kuomintang as a Party was not given in our interview. Mr. Hsieh
left Formosa in 1931, but has been keeping contact with people
coming from there ever since, and has occasionally broadcasted to
Formosa from Chungking.

Mr. Hsieh began by giving a little of the industrial picture,
especially around TAKAO on the SW coast. TAKAO has iron and aluminum
factories and an oil dump or refinery close to the railroad line.
Since the city is built on flat delta land with water close to the
surface, dugouts cannot be made. Instead, ARP shelters must be constructed
above ground. Principal crops are rice and sugar which are
shipped to Japan Proper, so that the local people are forced to eat
potatoes. They complain about this.

Camphor is extracted and manufactured into oil in TAIHOKU PROVINCE
in the north. One of the uses for the oil is as a motor fuel.
Natural gas comes from wells in the north around NANAHO.

South from CH'USHU, above TAKAO on the west coast, and roughly
including the whole of TAKAO PROVINCE down to the southern tip of
Formosa, the area is designated a Military Area. Here there are
usually five divisions of troops constantly training for jungle warfare.
The training period is only about one or two months, and the
troops are Japanese &amp; Koreans, with not very many Chinese. The Formosans
are trained in 18 other camps over the Island, and presumably
do not receive this specialized jungle training.

In Formosa the Japanese troops do not respect the Formosan women,
and also conscript the farmers for labor. Now there are some 310,000
Formosan men in the Army &amp; Navy, and since these men were conscripted
mostly from the soil, their families are unsupported and face poverty.
The Japanese authorities do not give them any help.

Most of the fishing off Formosa is done by Japanese.

The population of Formosa is largely Chinese, originally from
Fukian and Kwangtung, and reaches 6,500,600. Japanese number about
300,000, and the "natives"---originally of Malay stock---reach 160,
000. These were predominantly hunters and farmers in the wild mountains
on the southeastern quarter of the Island, and resisted the
Japanese for many years. However, beginning in 1930, the Japanese
authorities drove most of them by force down to the flat land on the
southeast coast, disarmed them, and thus forced them to turn to
agriculture. Thus they may be considered to be pacified.

The bulk of the Formosans speak Amoy dialect and Japanese, while
all of the youth below 25 years read and write Japanese easily. Messages
to them should be both in Chinese and Japanese.

In Formosa. . . .

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

In Formosa there are three underground political parties, all against the Japanese. Approximately 2,00,000 Formosans are politically conscious by reason of party activities. Of these, 175,000 are workers, and 700,000 are students. (?)

1) The KUOMINTANG is connected with the Chinese Kuomintang in Fukien. It reflects the Chinese Kuomintang program and wants to have Formosa a part of China after the war. It has about 15,000 members, mostly students, merchants, and industrialists, plus more supporters.

2) The KUNGCHANTANG (Communist Party) is connected with the Chinese Communist Party through Shanghai. It reflects the Chinese Communist program and also wants to join Formosa to China after the war. It has about 13,000 members, mostly peasants and workers in factories, forests, and docks, plus more supporters.

3) The KE MIN T'UNGMINMUI (Revolutionary Peoples' League) is chiefly made up of the old Chinese residents. About one-half want Dominion status under China after the war, and thus is allied to the Formosan Kuomintang. The other half, made up of landlords and country gentry, stands for Formosan independence.

All the parties have about the same political activities:

1) To attract members &amp; supporters to their own party.

2) To keep alive anti-Japanese sentiment by
a) Anti-Japanese propaganda
b) Anti-war propaganda
c) The Communists are also "Anti-imperialist"

3) To train Formosan youth in China to return to Formosa after the war.

4) To incite forestry and dock workers to sabotage (Done mainly by the Communists.)

In response to Mr. Fisher's request, Mr. Hsieh gave some suggestions about propaganda to Formosa.

1) Broadcasting: The best time to broadcast to Formosa is from 9:00 to 10:00 p.m. Tokyo time, because then the anti-Japanese programs can be screened by the strong Japanese programs at the same hour.

2) Political line: United Nations, and especially the U.S., should declare itself on Formosa's post-war status. It is believed that most of the people there know the provision for Formosa in the Cairo Conference Declaration. (?)

Underground activity should also be encouraged.

When Mr. Fisher pointed out that radio facilities were not available from this end, but asked for possible points for leaflets, Mr. Hsieh gave the following ideas:

1) Bomb warnings are good, and the people will respond to them.

2) News stories are good including progress of the war and resistance in Europe.

3) Material to make the people friendly to the United Nations troops that might land would be good.

4) . . . .

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -

4) Complain against the Japanese for taking 310,000 men away from home to leave their families unsupported. People should be led to demand government support or else to demand that their men should be brought back. Slogans for this are:

a) "Send them back"

b) "Give supplies and support their families"

c) "Same treatment for Formosan wounded and sick soldiers as for Japanese".

---

Theodore Herman
Intelligence Officer
CHINA DIVISION, O.W.I.

A true copy of the signed original. EJT
