894A.01 Formosa. Taiwan, Government. Mandates, Recognition., February 24, 1942 - April 29, 1942 (File 1346)
ID: 894A.01-1346   Pages: 30   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.01-formosa-taiwan-government-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
5949.01/16

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 29, 1942.

MS
RLS
WRL
MMH

Chungking's despatch no. 342 of March 31, 1942 deals with Chungking's interest in the ultimate disposition of Formosa, encloses copies of four publicity publications -- which need not be read, and comments that the number of Formosans in unoccupied China is undoubtedly very small, that the many Formosans of Chinese race in the Fukien coastal area have been much criticized in the past for their apparent willingness to utilize Japanese extraterritoriality to protect their businesses and often questionable activities, that the apparently rather sudden public interest in Formosa on the part of the Chinese authorities seems to date from the outbreak of hostilities in the Pacific in December 1941, little having been heard prior to that time of the matter, and that the Chinese may feel that the recent international attention to the future independence of Korea makes it advisable for China to forestall similar suggestion regarding the independence of Formosa.

6A
FE:Saltsbury:MJK

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
116
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 342 Chungking, March 31, 1942
Subject: Chinese Publicity Regarding
the Formosan Question.
Air Mail 28 055
5/4/44
334A.01/16
COPIES SENT TO
G.S.I. AND M.I.D.
SWISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to recent publicity from China concerning the future status of Formosa, some of which has undoubtedly come to the attention of the Department, and to enclose for the Department's information copies of typical samples of the material which reached the Embassy, commenting briefly thereon.
The enclosures are the following:
(1) "Inauguration Manifesto of the Formosan Revolutionary Federation" and "Outlines of Policy of the Formosan Revolutionary Federation" - undated but forwarded under cover of a despatch dated December 1, 1941, from the American Consul at Foochow, China.
(2)
MAY 8 1942
PS/LMB

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

117
(2) "Manifesto of the Formosan Revolutionary League (or Federation) Concerning the War on the Pacific" - dated December 12, 1941 and received by the Embassy without covering letter.

(3) Clip for from LT WAL (Official Chinese news agency) dated Chungking, March 22, 1942, recording hold of a conference of the "Formosa Revolutionaries League" at Chungking on March 20 and 21.

(4) Article from Bulletin no. 297, March 24, 1942, of the China Information Committee (an organ of the Huomt Tang's publicity board), entitled: "Formosans Seeking Reunion with China."

In addition I refer to the speech made by Dr. SUN Fo, President of the Judicial Yuan, on March 22 (the subject of the Department's telegram no. 218, March 25, 12 midnight and my no. 287, March 28, 11 a.m.) stating, inter alia, that "after the war Formosa will come back to China", a statement typical of those recently expressed by other public figures and appearing from time to time in the press.

As far as is known to the Embassy the Formosan independence movement in China has not been strong or active in the past. There have been, of course, many Formosans of Chinese race living along the Fukien coastal area, where they have been much criticized for their apparent willingness to utilize Japanese extraterritoriality to protect their businesses and often questionable activities. But the number of Formosans in unoccupied China is undoubtedly very small and it is hardly likely that even all of the thirty said to have attended the conference referred to in enclosure no. 3 were actually Formosans.

The apparently rather sudden public interest in Formosa on the part of the Chinese authorities seems to date from the outbreak of hostilities in the Pacific in December, 1941: before that time little was heard of the matter even in statements of Chinese war aims.

It seems obvious that Chinese ambitions to have Formosa returned to China are encouraged by the involvement in the war of the United States and Great Britain. At the same time the Chinese may feel that the recent international attention given to the question of future Korean independence makes it advisable for China to lose no time in forestalling any similar suggestion of independence for Formosa by (1) fostering organizations claiming to represent the Formosans which will call for the reunion of Formosa with China and (2) stressing in propaganda, as is done in enclosure no. 4, the Chinese racial ties of a large part of the Formosan population.

Respectfully yours,

C. E. Gauss

Enclosures

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-

Enclosures:
(1), (2), (3) and (4) as stated.

Original and two copies to the Department by air mail
Three copies to the Department by pouch

800 China - 711 Japan
JSS/gws

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
119

Enclosure no. 1 to despatch 342 dated March 31, 1942 from American Embassy at Chungking

(COPY)

INAUGURATION MANIFESTO OF THE FORMOSAN REVOLUTIONARY FEDERATION

The Formosan Independence Revolutionary Party, the Formosan People's Revolutionary Federation, the Formosan Youth Revolutionary Party, the Formosan People's Revolutionary Party and the Formosan Revolutionary Party, for the purpose of concentrating their national strength in a common effort to overthrow the Japanese imperialism and to complete the revolutionary task, united themselves in March 1940 into the Union of All Formosan Revolutionary Organizations as a prelude to the national unification. According to a resolution recently passed by representatives of various revolutionary parties, the Union of All Formosan Revolutionary Organizations has been dissolved and the Formosan Revolutionary Federation has been established in order to strengthen the revolutionary front against enemy aggression. To our countrymen in Formosa, we wish to enumerate our revolutionary purposes.

Since the Sui Dynasty, Formosa has been a part of the Chinese territory, which our ancestors handed down to us. During the later part of the Ming Dynasty, Admiral Cheng Chen-kung led the Chinese people in resisting enemy invasion and based his operations in Formosa. Formosa had not fallen into the Japanese hands and its people had not been enslaved until 1894, when the Manchus were defeated by the Japanese and concluded the Shimonoseki Treaty, according to which the island of Formosa was ceded to Japan. Over forty years have passed. The Formosan people, though in an isolated island enveloped in the darkness, have not forgotten their fatherland with increasing hatred for the Japanese imperialists. They have for many times risen against oppression and over 500,000 Formosans have sacrificed their lives for the revolutionary task. However, their undaunted spirit prevails and their work continues.

Formosa's isolated geographical position makes it difficult to achieve quick success. Since the outbreak of the Chinese-Japanese hostilities in 1937, the spirit of the five million Formosans has been further enlightened. Many of them have returned to their Fatherland to join the national forces in resisting the enemy. Many of them are energetically engaged in secret revolutionary work in the island and are waiting for the opportune time for a concerted strike against the aggressor. We, members of the Formosan Revolutionary Federation, hold the opinion that China's war of resistance and the Formosan revolution are closely interrelated. The final victory of the Chinese nation against aggression will be one of the

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

most important factors of the liberation of the Formosan people. The Formosan revolution, on the other hand, is also helpful to the Chinese cause. At this critical moment, with clouds hanging low over the Pacific, the position of Formosa is of particular importance. We therefore wish our countrymen to be strong enough to rise against oppression and strive to recover our lost territory. We also appeal to the people on the mainland and our international friends to give every possible advice and support.

The purpose of establishing the Formosan Revolutionary Federation is to centralize the revolutionary power of the Formosan people in a common struggle under a unified front. Under such a purpose, we will stand under the Chinese national flag and fight against the Japanese imperialism. Our fatherland has not overlooked Formosa as an abandoned land. We, the Formosan people, should therefore rise under the nation's leader to struggle against a common foe in order to regain our freedom and liberation. We shall fight hand in hand with all oppressed nations against Japanese aggression and reestablish peace and order in the Far East. We shall not rest until this goal is reached.

(Time 10:15) (Compared: 10:15)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch no. 342 dated March 31, 1942 from American Embassy at Chungking

(COPY)

OUTLIES OF POLICY OF THE
FORMOSA REVOLUTIONARY FEDERATION

1. Formosa is a lost Chinese territory. The Formosan revolution is a part of the Chinese revolution. The victory of the China's war of resistance means the liberation of the Formosan people. The Formosan Revolutionary Federation will follow the Three People's Principles and the Outlines of Resistance Reconstruction under the leadership of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.

2. The Federation firmly relieves that the sole way to achieve the recovery of Formosa is to overthrow the Japanese imperialism. Therefore, the Federation will unite the Formosan people and participate in the Fatherland's war of resistance in order to accelerate the downfall of the aggressor.

3. The Federation will join all sympathetic nations and individuals as an important step in revolution and will collaborate with the revolutionary forces in Japan, Korea and other oppressed nations in the East, as well as all anti-aggression elements in the world.

(Seal)

Submitted for reference and proof.

(Seal)

(True copy: compared)
8

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure no. 3 to despatch no. 342 dated March 31, 1942 from American Embassy at Chungking

SOURCE: CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY
Chungking
March 22, 1942

FORMOSA REVOLUTIONARIES HOLD CONFERENCE HERE

Chungking, March 22 (Central): The Formosa Revolutionaries' League held a two-day conference of delegates in Chungking on March 20 and 21, at which more than 30 representatives including Oong Ping-yao and Lin Yu-peng were present. The conference discussed more than 50 important resolutions including one calling for greater efforts toward strengthening the revolutionary movement inside Formosa, another requesting the fatherland organize armed forces for restoring Formosa to China, and one calling for promotion of the movement to restore Formosa to its former place as a Chinese province.

The conference elected Li Chien-hua, Kuo Te, Hsieh Tsen-chiang and 12 others to serve on the League's Central Executive Committee, Oong Ping-yao and two others to serve as supervisory members and Sung Chiao-lung, Li Yu-peng and Hsieh Nan-kuang to serve as standing members.

(1) copy
(Compared: 余)

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 4 to despatch no. 342 dated March 31, 1942 from American Embassy at Chungking.

SOURCE: China Information Committee
Daily Bulletin -- No. 297
March 24, 1942

( C O N F I D E N T I A L )

FOR OSANS SEEKING REUNION WITH CHINA

Though Koreans and Formosans are usually mentioned together in Free China for their revolutionary activities, actually there is a more than technical difference between them. This principally lies in their aim. Whereas the Koreans are seeking independence and emancipation from Japan, the Formosans are working for emancipation and reunion with their fatherland, China.

Viewed in this light, the significance of the meeting held in Chungking on March 22 by the League of Formosan Revolutionary Bodies instantly becomes clear. Among its important resolutions are those calling for the restoration of Formosa to its former status as a Chinese province, the intensification of anti-Japanese activities in Formosa, and the authorization by the Chinese Government for Formosans to organize a restoration army.

Together with the Pescadores, Formosa was ceded to Japan in 1895 by the Treaty of Shimonoseki. That was fully 47 years ago. Since China formally declared war on Japan on December 9, 1941, however, Formosa has become in point of international law a part of Chinese territory, because the Treaty of Shimonoseki was among the treaties declared null and void by the Chinese Government as from midnight, December 9.

The fact, of course, persists that Formosa is still in Japan's grip. In Japan's mad adventure in the southern Pacific, this island has been turned into her main base. Its geographical importance as well as its abundant food supplies and other resources have been fully exploited by Japan in her recent conquests. Consequently, the restoration of Formosa to China is not only desirable from the standpoint of China but from that of the United Nations as a whole, because with Formosa in China's hands, Japan will be deprived of a useful forward base for future aggressive activities in the south.

To speak of people as Formosans is, in a sense, a misnomer. Out of a total of 5,000,000 odd people on the island, which lies in the western Pacific just across a narrow strait from Fukien, over 4,000,000 are Chinese. Others on the island include 200,000 aborigines of Malayan ancestry, 300,000 Japanese and a few American and British missionaries, who were interned at the outbreak of the Pacific war.

Incl

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

That the people in Formosa have their hearts in China is proved by a recent request for seats on the third Chinese People's Political Council. This request received the hearty support of numerous papers in Chungking. In filing this request with the highest Chinese authorities, the Formosans could cite as precedents other Chinese provinces now temporarily under enemy occupation, among them the four Northeastern Provinces. Unfortunately, the request came too late. When the revised organic law of the People's Political Council was formally promulgated on March 17, Formosa was not listed. There is a possibility, however, that one or two seats out of a total of six allotted to Fukien may be assigned to delegates from Formosa.

Japan annexed Formosa in 1895, but she has had an uneasy task in pacifying the island. During the first twenty years of her rule in Formosa, Japan had to face twenty-two anti-Japanese uprisings. Formosan revolutionary movement began to follow an organized line after the First World War. The first organization to make its appearance was the Formosan Enlightening Society formed by Formosan youths in Japan in 1918. This was followed by the formation in Formosa in 1920 of the Formosan New People's Society. Both, however, were summarily dissolved by the Japanese. Driven underground, Formosan patriots established a secret group under the camouflaged name Formosa Cultural Association, with over 1,000 members.

The first powerful body to emerge was the Formosan Independence Revolutionary Party formed in 1924 under the leadership of Lee Yu-pang, who remains a guiding spirit in the Formosa reunion movement today. The following year, 1925, Formosan students in China formed the Formosan Comrades Society. The same year saw the springing into existence of the Formosan Youth Corps. The revolutionary movement in China between 1925 and 1927 afforded considerable inspiration to these Formosan patriots. Uprisings again shook Formosa. The most famous one, the Mushu Incident, happened one day in 1930, when the aborigines swooping down from their hilly strengholds in central Formosa, attacked a Japanese athletic ground and killed 124 Japanese. Two more uprisings broke out in subsequent years, one in 1933 and the other in 1937.

China's decision to take up arms in self-defense in July, 1937, gave another great impetus to the oppressed people in Formosa. A refuse-to-day-taxes movement swept across the country. In January, 1938, the aborigines organized by the revolutionaries again raided Japanese colonies in the central part of the island. In March the same year miners in Yu-lan struck. Taking advantage of the situation, the revolutionists set fire to a mammoth Japanese oil reservoir in northern Formosa. In a matter of several hours, oil said to be enough to meet Japan's consumption for six years, was destroyed.

The

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
- 3 -

The end of 1938 was filled with riots and uprisings throughout Formosa. In September, Japanese attempt to draft Formosans for military service precipitated an uprising in southern Formosa where 27 Japanese were killed and 1,200 Formosans jailed. Similar occurrences broke out in northern Formosa in November, when the revolutionists dynamited railways and steelworks there. As a result of these mass actions, the Japanese garrison in Formosa was increased from the traditional one division to three divisions. To forestall future anti-Japanese activities, more than 9,000 Formosans were arrested, taxing Formosa jails to their fullest capacity.

Then in April, 1938, two thousand Formosan troops revolted, and after having killed and wounded 1,200 Japanese officers and men, they fled into the hills. Later that year, coal miners in southern Formosa went on strike. More disturbances occurred in northern and central Formosa.

Meanwhile Formosan revolutionists who had fled the island, resumed and enlarged their preparations in China. A new and powerful body appeared in Hongkong in 1938. This was the Formosan National Revolutionary League. In August, the league wrote to the Ta Kung Pao, announcing its decision to work for China's war effort by taking active part on the Chinese front and at the same time by organizing people in Formosa to harass the Japanese rear. This bore fruit in October that year when 300 new Formosan recruits, immediately after they were issued four machine-guns and rifles, turned round and fired at their Japanese officers, of whom 30 were killed. A Japanese unit sent against the rebels suffered 140 casualties before the latter broke away for the hills.

The year 1940 saw the steady consolidation of Formosan revolutionary bodies in China. On March 29, the Formosan Independence Party and the Formosan National Revolutionary League set up a joint directing office. In July, the joint office was enlarged by the addition of two more groups, the Formosan Youth Revolutionary Party and the Formosan People's Revolutionary Party. In November, the Formosan Revolutionary Party joined. In February, 1941, the unification task was completed upon the dissolution of the five component bodies and the organization of the existing League of Formosan Revolutionary Parties. Its principal platform is: Reunion with China.

Mr. Lee Yu-pang, a principal spirit in the Formosan movement, is around 40 years old. He received his politico-military training in the famous Whampoa Military Academy in Canton before the 1926-1927 Chinese revolution. Aside from national reasons he has his private account to settle with the Japanese, because two of his younger brothers were killed by the Japanese some years ago. Mr. Lee today is also at the head of several Formosan volunteers' units which have been engaged in political work immediately behind the front in the Lake Tai district in eastern China.

When

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -

When authorization is received from the Chinese Government for the organization of a Formosan restoration army, a similar one having been formed by the Koreans, the Formosans will be enabled eventually to carry their war into Japan's main spring-board in her present southward push, that is, Formosa.

(True copy:
(Compared:

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.90)
CONSOLIDATED PRESS CLINIC
SECRET
UNCLASSIFIED

# CONSOLIDATED ERENCE FILE

## NOTE

### SUBJECT

Formosa: Memorandum in two sections, re -/
The first section constitutes primarily a historical
sketch. The second section contains comment on
Japanese administrative practice in Formosa and
character and attitudes of the people of Formosa.

For the original paper from which reference is taken

See MEMO
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)

Dated July 29, 1942 From | Bar Eastern Affairs (Hornbeck)
To

File No. 894A.014/2

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1643

17

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
894A.01 / 16
PS/BME
Confidential File

# CROSS-REFERENCE FILE

## NOTE

SUBJECT Post-War Problems:

Transmits information regarding the possibility of Formosa being given back to China.

For the original paper from which reference is taken

See memorandum
(Bespatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)

Dated Mar. 27, 1943 From State Dept. (Secretary) Hull

File No. 840.50/2088

1-1840

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
OFFICE OF POLITICAL REVOLUTIONS SEAL, 1943 DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894A.01/19
894A.01/19

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

No. 1484 Chungking, August 18, 1943.

Subject: Memorandum of Information on the American Revolution

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.

Sir:

Reference is made to the Embassy's despatch no. 342 of March 31, 1942, on the subject of Chinese publicity regarding the Formosan question, and to despatch no. 1374 of July 21, 1943, with which was transmitted information concerning Formosa obtained from the Formosan Revolutionists League ().

There is now enclosed a memorandum in regard to the League, prepared by an officer of the Embassy on the basis of information furnished by local Formosans and Chinese, which may be briefly summarized as follows:

The League, formed in 1941 by amalgamation of six Formosan organizations, is asserted to have 140,000 members, only about 1,000 of whom are stated to be in unoccupied China and the bulk of the remaining alleged membership probably existing only on paper. The declared aims of the League include: (1) the building of a Formosan Army; (2) the establishment in unoccupied China, by the Chinese Government, of a Taiwan Provincial Government; and (3) the return of Formosa to China. To help achieve its aims the League carries on espionage, propaganda work and occasional acts of terrorism. The League is now cut off from the majority of the overseas Chinese from whom it heretofore drew support, and it is at present negotiating for the financial assistance of the Kuomintang. While the League contains many elements which cannot be trusted, its principal leader seems to enjoy a limited degree of support from the Kuomintang and the Chinese Government, which utilize him and his organization for their own purposes.

Respectfully yours,

George Atcheson, Jr.
Charge d'Affaires a.i.
DIVISION OF POLITICAL REVOLUTIONS

Enclosure:
Memorandum prepared by Mr. Rice, dated August 17, 1943.

Single copy to the Department.
800
:slp

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 1484 of August 18, 1943, from George Atcheson, Jr., American Charge d'Affaires a.i. in Chungking, China, to the Department on the subject of The Formosan Revolutionists League.

American Embassy
Chungking, China, August 17, 1943.

MEMORANDUM

Subject: The Formosan Revolutionists League.

A. History:

The Formosan Revolutionists League (台灣革命同盟會) is stated to be a union of all Formosan revolutionary societies; the history of these societies is complex and, in part because of their secret nature, difficult to ascertain. It is asserted by some Formosans that there have been revolutionary societies in Taiwan since its cession to Japan in 1895. However, the earliest of such societies in regard to which first-hand information appears to be available was the Taiwan Reform Society (台灣革命會). According to Chang Pang-chieh (張邦偉), a Formosan Chinese who states that he was one of its members, it was a secret terrorist revolutionary group which was formed in 1915 and continued in existence until 1926, when the Formosan Cultural Association (台灣文化協會) was formed. It is stated that the Association was really revolutionary in character although it was registered with the Japanese authorities and had as its ostensible purpose the spreading of Asiatic culture. Members of the Formosan Cultural Association evidently maintained an active interest in political developments in China, for Mr. Chang states that the split between the radical and conservative elements within the Kuomintang resulted in a split in the Association, the more conservative elements accusing it of having become Communist and leaving it in 1927 to form the People's Party (民進黨). Both the Formosan Cultural Association and the People's Party were suppressed by the Japanese authorities; according to one account this suppression occurred in 1932, following the Mukden incident and the outbreak of Sino-Japanese hostilities at Shanghai. A number of Formosans thereupon went to Amoy, Mr. Chang states, where during 1932 they founded the Anti-Japanese League (反日同盟會); this organization split up over the 19th Route Army's Fukien revolt of 1933, which closely concerned Formosan Chinese because of Fukien's being their original home. Another attempt to gain unity was made in 1935 when various Formosan revolutionary elements united to form the Formosan Revolutionary Party (台灣革命黨), but a number of groups soon split off from this new party.

The present Formosan Revolutionists League was formed in 1941; apparently it is an association of groups rather than an association into a single party (although according to one report the constituent parties have, in theory, at least, been dissolved).

B. Composition:

The following are the constituent parts of the Formosan Revolutionists League:

(1)

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

(1) The Formosan Revolutionary Party (referred to above), the Chairman of which is Chang Pang-chieh (張梓樂), a graduate of Waseda University (1921) and former resident of Takao, Taiwan. Mr. Chang describes his party as rightist; he claims, incidentally, to have been Vice-Commander of a military unit, composed of Formosan Chinese, which supported the Central Government against the 19th Route Army during the leftist 1933 Fukien revolt.

(2) The Formosan Independence Revolutionary Party (台灣國立革命會), the Chairman of which is Li Yu-pang (李友邦). This party is composed of members of the Formosan Revolutionary Volunteers Corps (台灣革命兵事隊). According to Chang Pang-chieh, who holds a commission from the Military Affairs Commission as an adviser to the Corps, it is composed of about 100 members and was derived from a similar corps composed principally of Koreans. It is subject to the direction of the Political Affairs Department of the Military Affairs Commission for which it is now carrying on propaganda work in Fukien. Li Yu-pang (who is also leader of the Corps) is a graduate of the second class of the Whampoa Military Academy (he was, incidentally, imprisoned by Chiang Kai-shek from 1927-1935 as a Communist).

(3) The Formosan National Revolutionary Party (台灣國民革命會). The Chairman of the party, K'o Tai-shan (柯台山), is quoted as claiming for it a membership of 5,000.

(4) The Formosan People's Revolutionary Federation (台灣民族革命總商盟) is reported to have been formed in Hong Kong in 1940. The Chairman of this group, which may number several hundreds, is Hsieh Nan-kuang (謝南光), who in 1941 became Chief of the Second (Foreign Affairs) Section of the Fukien Provincial Government. According to well-informed sources he is suspected of being either pro-Japanese or a Japanese agent. (Several persons connected with the League state that he has successively held himself out to be in favor of the Kuomintang, the Communist Party, Wang Ching-wei and, again, the Kuomintang; that when Wang Ching-wei was associated with the leftist regime at Hankow, Hsieh was affiliated with his clique, which was known as the 歧種派, and that he was arrested at Amoy in 1936 because of connection with the Southwest Revolt of that year but that he was subsequently released as a result of intervention by the Japanese consular authorities.)

(5) Formosan Youth Revolutionary Party (台灣青年革命會), the Chairman of which is one Chen Yu-ch'in (陳友毅). The party's headquarters are at Lungki (龍溪), near Amoy, in Fukien; it was organized just after the outbreak of Sino-Japanese hostilities and is claimed to have about 5,000 members.

(6) Formosa Party Headquarters (台灣霞卿). This unit of the Chinese Kuomintang was organized in 1941. The director, Wong Chun-ming (黃俊明), is an elderly adherent of Chang Pang-chieh (Director of the Formosan Revolutionists League), was formerly the latter's representative in Hong Kong and was recommended by him for his present position.

C.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-

## C. Organization and Membership:

The governing body of the Formosan Revolutionists League is stated to be a Central Executive Board, the Chairman of which is also the Chairman of the League. Under him are the following bureaus:

1. General Affairs (經濟處), directed by Tsai Kuo-hun (梁明媚).
2. Organization Bureau (相關處), directed by Lu Pei-hsiung (潘伯相).
3. Executive Bureau (行動處), directed by Ch'en Tse-sheng (陳官正).
4. Secretarial Bureau (秘密處), Chen Yu-ch'in (陳友孺).
5. Propaganda Bureau (宣傳處), directed by Wu Yu-yung (吳有霖).
6. Secret Bureau (機要處), directed by Chuang Wen-tsan (蘇文媒).

The Chairman of the League states that subject to the joint control of the Organization and Executive Bureaus are Special Divisions (特別是部) in Fukien and at Canton and Shanghai, and ordinary divisions (交部) in Taihoku (台北), Sinjigu (新行), Taiju (台東), Tainan (台南), Takao (大南), Taido (台東), Karenko (花連), the Pescadores and Tokyo; and that under each such divisions there are several sub-divisions.

Mr. Chang asserts that the League has about 140,000 members of whom about 1,000 are in unoccupied China and about 2,000 are with the Japanese armed forces in the South Pacific and elsewhere as soldiers, interpreters and mechanics. Most of the remainder of the membership is stated to be among persons residing in Formosa and to comprise peasants, laborers, seamen, professional men, students and government employees. The Chairman of the League claims also to have close personal relations with the tribal chieftan Kamo of Karenkom, King Kayama of Hinan and the district chief Banabitze of Manchuli (南州里), Takao.

## D. Aims and Activities of the Formosan Revolutionists League:

The declared aims of the Formosan Revolutionists League include the following:

(1) The building of an army of Formosans to participate in China's war of resistance.

(2) The establishment of a provincial government for Taiwan (similar to provincial governments maintained for occupied provinces of the mainland).

(3) The return of Formosa to China.

The three principal activities of the League are propaganda, espionage and terrorism. Its propaganda is directed not only to Formosans against the Japanese (in propaganda leaflets and radio broadcasts) but also to China and foreign countries which may have a voice with respect to the disposition to be made of them at the conclusion of the present war. (There is attached as an example

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

example of the League's propaganda a copy of the text, in English translation, of a declaration of June 17, 1943, issued by it on the occasion of the forty-eighth anniversary of the cession of Taiwan to Japan. There is also attached a translation of a broadcast made on that date, at the invitation of the League, by Wu Te-chen, Secretary General of the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang.) Its espionage activities are carried out chiefly on behalf of the Chinese National Government; it claims to have furnished maps used by the Chinese Air Force when it bombed Formosa and to have prepared and made available several hundred intelligence reports, principally with regard to Formosa. A large proportion of these reports were prepared by the League's *Taishan Research Office* (台山研究室). Its recent terrorist acts are stated to have been confined to the throwing of bombs or hand-grenades into gatherings of Japanese at Amoy, although it is asserted that the League or its member organizations have in the past been responsible for strikes and acts of violence in Formosa.

E. Relationship of the Formosan Revolutionists League to the Kuomintang and the Chinese National Government, and its Desire for American Aid:

The Chairman of the League states that, with regard to the Kuomintang, he is directly responsible to its Tsungts'ai (Leader), Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. He also states that heretofore the League has been supported chiefly by overseas Chinese; this support is now cut off and the League is in financial difficulties. He states that the Standing Committee of the Central Executive Committee of the Kuomintang has agreed to contribute financially to the support of the League but that the amount it will contribute has not yet been decided.

The League has been handicapped, in its espionage work, by lack of funds and of proper equipment, such as radio sets. Mr. Chang states that such funds and equipment could be obtained from the Chinese Government only were he to put the League's espionage organization under the control of Tai Li (黄豆), the head of the Government's secret police. This he is unwilling to do, as the League wishes to preserve as much independence of action as possible.

The Chairman of the League has several times expressed a desire to furnish to the United States Government facilities and personnel for espionage work, piloting of naval vessels and so forth in return for financial support and communications equipment.

F. An Evaluation of the League and of Its Personnel:

The League, it will be observed, is composed of dissimilar and, to a degree, antagonistic elements. It is obvious from conversation with its chairman that he expects Taiwan to be restored

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

restored to China at the conclusion of the present war and that he hopes to become Chairman of a Taiwan Provincial Government. Doubtless he and many other members of the League are bound together by similar expectations and hopes as well as by dislike of the Japanese and a sense of racial unity with each other and with Chinese on the mainland. However there is a long history of disunity among Formosan groups and of suspicion between conservative Formosans like Chang Pang-chieh and others whom they consider radical or of doubtful loyalty. This disunity and suspicion may be expected to continue.

Certain elements in the League are interested in trade between Japanese and Chinese-controlled areas or in preserving property interests in both, and some of these and other elements within the League are quite reliably stated to be doing espionage and other work for both the Japanese and the Chinese. Responsible members of the League admit that Chiang Kai-shek puts less than full confidence in the League's intelligence reports; probably the Generalissimo is well-advised to do so.

Doubtless Chairman Chang Pang-chieh is genuinely anti-Japanese and in certain respects is frank. He displays, however, evidences of naivete in judgment and of a disregard for the statistical aspects of truth; one instance of each may suffice: (1) he has had communication with Chiang Kai-shek for almost two years concerning the raising and financing of an armed force to be composed of Formosans (one of the declared aims of the League). When asked in private conversation who would train the force he replied that no training would be required as the members would be drawn from Formosans in the Japanese armed forces who would "come over" at the appropriate time. (2) He states that the League has about 140,000 members, whereas according to an informed Chinese official source the League has at most only a few thousand members. (Some other leading members of the League, such as Hsieh Nan-kuang, give an impression of being even less trustworthy than Chang Pang-chieh.)

According to General Wang Peng-sheng, an advisor on Japanese affairs to Chiang Kai-shek, the League in China is now somewhat cut off from the persons affiliated with it who reside in Formosa and has relatively little influence at the present time, although its influence may become considerable when Taiwan becomes a scene of hostilities or when Japanese control there relaxes.

Edward E. Rice.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
enclosure to
Enclosure No. 1 to/despatch no. 1484, August 18, 1943,
The George Atcheson, Jr., American Charge d'Affaires a.i.,
Hongkong, China, on the subject of The Formosan Revolutionists
League.

DECLARATION OF THE TAIWAN REVOLUTIONARY LEAGUE ON THE OCCASION
OF THE 48TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CESSION OF FORMOSA (JUNE 17, 1943)

"Today marks the forty-eighth anniversary of the inauguration of Japanese imperialistic rule in Taiwan, the beginning of the enslavement of its six million inhabitants. Not willing to submit to foreign domination the patriotic people of Taiwan put up continued but fruitless resistance. Since this day forty-eight years ago, they have been left to their fate, helpless and forlorn, passing the days of a subjugated people. In this sixth year of China's war of resistance, this day bring us the bitterest memories. To the people of Taiwan, the deserted children of China, its associations are particularly painful.

"Liberty is the birthright of every people. Why are we denied the right to choose our own government? The one and immutable aim of the Taiwan people is that Taiwan must be returned to its mother country, the Republic of China. The blood that runs in our veins is Chinese. We believe in the Three People Principle, which is the fixed policy of the National Government. We believe in People's Rights, in which is embodied the principle of vox populi, vox dei. We uphold the principle of People's Livelihood. We appeal fervently to the Allied Nations to apply the Atlantic Charter and the Joint Declaration of the United Nations in the settlement of the Taiwan question after the war. Will they not extend to us their assistance to restore us to China, to liberate us from these long years of slavery, and to give us an opportunity to participate in the construction of a new world?

"Recently an international mandate has been suggested for Taiwan after the war. Whatever the intentions of its proponents, this proposal is in flagrant violation of the Atlantic Charter, and all principles of Justice. We people of Taiwan will resist it with all our might even as have resisted Japanese imperialism. If we resent slaving for one master, how much more so do we resent the idea of serving several masters?

"On this significant day, we deem it appropriate to say a word to our six million brethren in Taiwan. The world war is entering a decisive phase. The victory of the Allied Nations is in sight. In the not distant future the destiny of Taiwan, the choice between master and slave, glory and shame, will be decided, perhaps by purely objective considerations. Now is the time for us to intensify our efforts to win back freedom by our own exertions. Whether you are on the farm, in the factory, in the school or in the enemy's camp, you must always remember your duties to your country. Organize among the people an anti-Japanese front. Watch closely the development of the war, and whenever and wherever opportunity offers, at every sign of the enemy's weakening, start a vigorous fight, destroy the enemy's fighting machinery and bring about his collapse. When Japan's power in Taiwan is destroyed, our victory is won. Then with one mind the revolutionary leaders of Taiwan shall concentrate their efforts toward our liberation. Our task will be twofold. In the first place we must build an army to participate in China's war of resistance. In the second place we must work for the

establishment

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

establishment of a provincial government in Taiwan. These are the necessary steps for the redemption of our political status as an integral part of China, for self-determination and for self-preservation. We shall then constitute a great force upholding the Atlantic Charter.

"Finally we wish to address ourselves, the long-lost children of China, to our Fatherland. As victory looms nearer and nearer, China must adopt a clear attitude and policy in respect to Taiwan. It is our ardent wish that Taiwan be regarded as one of China's provinces under temporary Japanese occupation, and that a provincial authority, civil as well as military, be instituted in Free China without loss of time. Taiwan must be included in all her mobilization and demobilization schemes, so that our brethren on the isolated island, may take heart and be consoled and that they may be endeared to their Fatherland and inspired with new courage in their fight against the enemy.

"Forty-eight years have passed since the cession of Taiwan. But the day of redemption is at hand. Let us brace ourselves and pursue the path marked with the blood of our heroes, fight for the country from whose fond arms we have been severed, for our own liberty and for the happiness of our posterity."

most copy : (signature) with

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to enclosure to despatch no. 1484, August 1943, from George Atcheson, Jr., American Charge d'Affaires a. Chungking, China, on the subject of The Formosan Revolutionist League.

# BROADCAST OF SECRETARY GENERAL WU TIEH-CHEN (IN SUMMARY FORM)

"Today is the lamentable anniversary of our Formosan Brethren and also an anniversary of suffering and of shame of the Chinese race as a whole and of all our brethren, as they are our brethren. In other words, the nature of the sure victory of the defensive war is that Formosa must be returned. The defensive war has come to an important turning point. Our Formosan brethren should avail themselves of this opportunity to exert their forces to beat the enemy, to expedite the collapse of the enemy, and to expedite the enemy's departure from Formosa. Today is a sad and bitter day and an anniversary which is approaching to success and to brightness.

"As they are our brethren, we should save them so that they may enjoy a life similar to that enjoyed by all our brethren. This is a right which is due them and is a responsibility which we cannot shirk. Our brethren of Formosa absolutely have not done anything for which they should ask the forgiveness of their fatherland. So long as we have not enabled Formosa to be included as in the past in the Republic of China, we should ask forgiveness of our Formosan brethren. In the course of the 48 years we have known that many Formosan patriots and good men have sacrificed their lives for the country directly or indirectly and for the racial creed. Moreover with the inspiration of Tsungli Sun Yat-sen, a Formosan revolutionary Tung Ming Hui was organized. Up to the present it is still struggling with all its power. We trust that not one of our Formosan brethren does not wish to return to the bosom of their fatherland. This is our responsibility and also our national policy as indicated on many occasions by our Tsungtsai. At the National Delegates Conference in 1938, Tsungtsai said we must aim at the emancipation of the people of Korea and Formosa, in direct opposition to Japan's intrigue of positive aggression. This is what Tsungli Sun said to all his comrades during his life. We must accomplish and carry out this responsibility and this national policy. From the beginning we have had this confidence. Today we are proving plainly its possibility."

(Current copy: ) (Compared with: )

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.93)
Ock

The Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

To: FE: Mr. Ballantine
FROM: PWC: Mr. Rothwell
DATE: July 19, 1944.
SUBJECT:

Attached herewith is a redraft of the letters to General Hilldring and Captain Pence transmitting the documents on "Military Government in Formosa". I have tried to phrase the second paragraph to indicate that these documents may be regarded as having been formally approved in the Department but as subject to modifications in the light of developments.

It was my understanding after our telephone conversation that you would take these up with Mr. Grew with the thought that the Secretary's approval might be obtained for the documents and for their transmission with the attached covering letters.

894A.01/7-1944

894A.01/7-1944
894A.01/7-1944

E R
PWC:ER:MHF

AUG 1

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
July 21, 1944.

In reply refer to
PWC

Confidential

My dear General Hilldring:

I am transmitting herewith a series of papers prepared by the State Department on "Military Government in Formosa" relating to political and policy questions presented by the War and Navy Departments.

These papers are identical with those which were transmitted earlier with the indication that they represent the informal views of experts in the Department. The papers have since been formally approved at the policy level and may now be regarded as the present views of the Department of State, subject, however, to such modifications as may be necessary in the light of future developments.

Sincerely yours,

James Clement Dunn
Director
Office of European Affairs

Enclosures:
As stated, three copies of documents on Formosa.

Major General J. H. Hilldring,
Director, Civil Affairs Division,
Room 10006, Panamana Building,
Washington, D. C.

PWC: EH:RWP 7/18/44 JH JH

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
July 21, 1944.

In reply refer to
PWC

Confidential

My dear Captain Pence:

I am transmitting herewith a series of papers prepared by the State Department on "Military Government in Formosa" relating to political and policy questions presented by the War and Navy Departments.

These papers are identical with those which were transmitted earlier with the indication that they represent the informal views of experts in the Department. The papers have since been formally approved at the policy level and may now be regarded as the present views of the Department of State, subject, however, to such modifications as may be necessary in the light of future developments.

Sincerely yours,

James Clement Dunn
Director
Office of European Affairs

Enclosures:

As stated, three copies of documents on Formosa.

Captain H. L. Pence, U.S.N.,
Occupied Areas Section of the Chief of Naval Operations,
Room 10017, Furicama Building,
Washington, D. C.

A true copy of the signed original. H.L.P.

PWC:EB:HHP 7/18/44 HA HA

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
1944.01/10-144
294A.01/10
894A.01/10

EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Chungking, China
October 1, 1944

SUBJECT: Formation of Formosa Problems Investigation Committee

Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 27 1944
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Department of State

WAR AREAS
ECONOMIC DIVISION
JAN 27 1945
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

MID-2 OSS
ONI FC/L JA CA

Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that, according to
the press and other sources of information available
to the Embassy, an organization known as the "Formosa
Problems Investigation Committee" has recently been
established in Chungking under the aegis of the Central
Planning Board. The latter Board, the function of which
is to formulate and study plans for political and economic
development, operates under the control of the
Supreme National Defense Council, a directive organ of
the Kuomintang.

The Formosa Problems Investigation Committee is
reported to consist of eleven members: CHEN Yi, WANG
Peng-sheng, HSIEH Nan-kuang, HUANG Chao-chin, LI Yu-
pang, YU Erh-chien, CHIU Nien-tai, CHOU Yi-tsao, CHIEN
Tsung-chi, SHEN Chung-chiu, and HSIA Tao-sheng.

General Chen Yi, Dean of the Central Training Corps
and former Chairman of the Fukien Provincial Government,
has been appointed Chairman of the Committee. Another
well-known member of the Committee is General Wang Peng-
sheng, the Generalissimo's advisor on Japanese Affairs.
Mr. Hsieh Nan-kuang, now working in Chungking with
General Wang Peng-sheng, is reputed to be the head of
Formosan revolutionary society. Mr. Huang Chao-chin,
another member of the Committee, is an employee of the
Department of Intelligence and Publicity of the Chinese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

DIVISION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
NOV 2 - 1944
REPRODUCTION SECTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

File
FEB 6 1945
RECEIVED

DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY
AND ORGANIZATION
NOV 25 1944
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

The establishment of this Committee is believed to signify an awakening, belated though it may be, of the interest of the Chinese Government in the future of Formosa, it being generally taken for granted in Chungking that following the defeat of Japan the Island of Formosa is to be returned to China. In recent years the Chinese authorities appear to have taken very little interest in Formosa; and there is good reason to believe that they are woefully uninformed in regard to developments on the Island and have had few tangible links with it. In this general connection American intelligence agencies in Chungking have had little success in obtaining information from the Chinese authorities in regard to Formosa. It seems likely that the rapid westward advance of the American forces in the Pacific and a feeling that an American occupation of Formosa is imminent were instrumental in bringing about the formation of this Committee at this time.

The function of the Committee, as indicated by its title, is reported to be largely investigational in character. In this connection, it is reliably reported that the Committee is undertaking to procure books and other material relating to Formosa from the United States. Presumably the Committee will also endeavor to despatch agents direct to the Island, although owing to reportedly stringent Japanese precautions this activity may not prove easy of accomplishment.

Although, as indicated above, information available in Chungking in regard to recent developments in Formosa is largely fragmentary and inconclusive, reports are circulating to the effect that the Formosan populace in general is desirous of throwing off the Japanese yoke and would consequently welcome American occupation of the Island. There are further reports that the Formosans, who are said to have attained a high degree of literacy under Japanese rule, are reluctant to subject themselves to Chinese governmental control exercised from the mainland. Instead, and as an alternative, a large section of the Formosan populace is represented as being desirous of establishing an independent state or at the very least of preserving local autonomy.

Respectfully yours,

C. E. Gauss

Osalid Original to the Department
EPD:reb
800 FORMOSA

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
2CR
SR
HAV

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

July 29, 1942.

Herewith a memorandum in two sections on Formosa.

The first section, prepared by Mr. Langdon, constitutes primarily a historical sketch.

The second section, prepared by Mr. Emmerson, contains comment in regard to Japanese administrative practice in Formosa and to the character and attitudes of the people of Formosa.

FE:MMH:HES

894a.014
S. T.
894A.01
711.94A
740.00119P.W.
740.00119PW

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS

February 24, 1942.

FE - Mr. Hamilton:

This seems to me very good--as far as it goes. Might there not to advantage be inserted a section on history--in two parts, first history of Formosa in general, second history of U.S. interest or concern in and with Formosa; also, perhaps, history of Chinese interest in and concern with Formosa; also, a history of the circumstances under and the manner in which Japan acquired control of Formosa (first events around 1870 and second events around 1895).

In ultimate analysis Pasvolsky might be put on the list of those to receive copies.

DIVISION OF POLITICAL RELATIONS
MR. HURSTNER
JUL 25 1942
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

PA/H: SKH: FLB
