894A.00 Formosa. Taiwan, Political Affairs., February 7, 1931 - March 8, 1940 (File 1181)
ID: 894A.00-1181   Pages: 156   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.00-formosa-taiwan-political-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894 A.00
SEE
894.00 P R/38
FOR
#131
FROM
Japen
Dooman
) DATED
Feb.7, 1931.
TO
NAME
1-1127
2
REGARDING:
the revolt last November in Formosa; the causes
according to the statement of the Governor
Gereral of Formosa.
mb/

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.86)
2
dosordins to a st tement iasued by the
bean Covernmont Coneral of Pormosa, the mujor Gause
of the aiaoontont whieh led to she revolt at
Muaha last Novemver was the polioy of the
government in regulsitlonins a origines in the
work of trane  rtlne timber for che new mohool
buie al thn
Theo 
vary oroes o thw is teroolty. have a uatural
C
horror of m nwl lo or, nnc resouted beine
.00
nothor
V
of tne c uuse w she veroonat resentment or
3
two of the loadere, membere of whoce families
8
had been exeoutec y the authoritlee for head
hunting •
2
Ou Jammary  lst Covernor-Gonerml Iuhidxuka
of P:  moee o l a aon Premler Bomegusri and
Poreign Xi ister uron shidehara une signified
hie intention or resigning, due to his reeponsi-
bility for the uprising. It is reported that
Mr. Hitomi, Vice Governor-General of Pormoaa,
C
has aiso resigned. Botwithstanding the resigna-
tion of the Governor-General and Vioe Governer-
General of Formosa in sonnection with the recent
rovols.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.93)
一4-
rovolt, the responsibility of the Government --
Er. Matsuda,  i lster o: Overeeas  Ifairs. in
partioular -- is veing strongly questioned by
the opposition in both houses or the Diet.
They interpret the dismissal of the heads of the
Formoman Govemment as proof or admlsmion on the
Government's part of the werious nature of the
affair. Mr. ta, Covermor of Kwantung  rovinoe,
has been seleeted as Mr. Ishidzuks's suscesser,
but it is reported in the vernaoular'press that
this choise in not proving popular exoept in
Kwantung, where, it is rumored, his tranefer is
hailed as a 'good riddanoe.'

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.90)
11
JBE
71.
OF
AMERICANCONSULAT
Tai holaraia  an, FoMruary 24, 1931.
Confidential.
SUBJECt: 
MB
1-1055
894A.00
uti
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894A.00/1
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the fonor to  est conou ot evoed
dissolution of the Tiwan mi ute lrty (i iom Do co atic
3
Party) by action of local oco  er rsutic c e
authorities of the dovemt ral.
This political prty ola a co oral  ti  c she loth
to discus for ulation  rovisios of  latfom to be ato ted
by the party. Cn the evenine of tat day, the tlief c ita
Police (municipal civision of linolu) vicitea  etie and
ordered the cisbanding of the prty tder Article 8 Clause 2
of the Law Governing Preservation of Peace and Order. pinteen
of the most prominent persons i. the party were arrested and
taken to the Kita Police Stution, some still being confined in
jail, others being released after domiciliary searcles discloted
no affiliation with comunistic activities in Japan Proper and
  1931
894A. 114-Kannke/4
PTLED
other countries.
This party, information conoerming vhioh was iven in
some detail in a report from this office, "▲ Survey of the
10
Opium Situation in Taiwan", dated April 11, 1930, was organized
1 July, 1927 by certain moderate socialis ts formerly members
the Taiwan Minto Party, disbanded by the police in June,
for alloged radical activities. The Minshuto Party was
erganized

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
organized under the principles of securing fair political
rights for the inhabitants of luiwan and of stabiliming
economie stancine sd welfave o hece i. habita ate. There
was, at that ti e, to  tatea ao sve yor woter sulf-tutom ine-
tion.
，
radical ule t
心~
more and nore vexatious to the  ane e authorities. At
this stage a nu ber of the uri inal or e izers, the most
moderate of the membere,  lit rom te party e ommed
a section to all intents and puposes u arate lrom the
Minshuto, although till ter the sle mmme. s the major
activities of tle perty craduall: dovelopcd us tvine contra
to the policy of Japan in Taiwan, there were re eated efforts
and directions by the dover unt Ge eral that the party
2
should follow such and such a Zource but witlout a reat
e
S
success, inasnuch as to adeyt these cirections vould tend
to emasculate the pri ury purpoces of the party.
The culmination of this conflict wes the enuiciation
of a general platform of the party at the mecting on the
18th. mong the provisions: To obtain political freedom
for farm laborers, proletariats, and all oppressed by the
summary actions of the Govermment General; to protect the
interests of these peoples ageinst unfair legislation and
govermmental aotion; to oppose the absolute and despotio
rule of the Governor General; to oppose the function of
the Advisory Council as not representing the people; To
obtain political rights as concerns self-government for
both sexes over 18 years of age; to improve the system of
ation to prohibit opium smoking and to abolish the
opium

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-
opium monopoly; To obtain various ceneral social improve-
ments.
Imediately followi the cissolution of the party,
the Chief of Police of hu coveu   pul ttud that
the oietco
Foan
the policy ci ra
tolor be,
that freedon of crpalimution of si ilar t we oscitle
insofer as they were t ini ical to yeace  orcer.
The real causes, however, fo the wetion of the suthori-
ties in disbanding the limlhuto Pavty vo  lieved to lie
in the opium question aw the musha Affair. the Dupartheut
will recall that in the pepest "A urvey of mhe c ium
Situation in Taiwan" was sst lorth a tmury or the stand
of the Minshuto Party on tris mestion, a trainslation of
the petition of this perty to the Lea ue of latio s being
appended. There is, therefore, no coubt that the continued
opposition of the inshuto to the opiun monopoly w a policy
in Taiwan has evoked tiis dissolution us a measure of
governmental retalistion. As concerns the Musha Arfair, it
is stated that the Minshuto Party t ok the op ortunity to
spread rumors contrary to the public peace and welfare, a
894A.40163
number of whioh were noted in Despatch No. 58 from this
office, "The Uprising of Savaees in Taiwan", dated December
9, 1930. In conneotion with the Musha Affair this office
hopes to be able to submit for the consideration of the
Department a translation of some of the material prepared
by the Minshuto on that oocasion.
Leaders of the party are quoted as saying that the
inshuto will be reorganized to continue political activities
in another form.
Although

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.88)
-4-
Although there is much truth in the charges of radicalism
by the Govermment Goneral wut orities, there pre  mriber
of erounds for not conde ming curtin or the iteat a pearing
in the latsom o . o
iove
on thet
上
overnt,
Tuivan.W
plans were beine mde lts we culebsation e the lot
anniversary or the eutablislt cf w i-sulf- ever wnt in
Taiwan, there was decidee o or ttiou e the rt cf  t,
both Foosan td Ja ose, o. the td at e was
no self-govemm eut  t te ce co souson for colebratlon.
There was certei ly so vald entmsiaen evi cea of ce or
during the holidey. the c o itio e the lline luto Purty
to the dovermsent sen eal's o ium policy is in  y ways
well-reasoned and has ler a ack  ould the present widely
acclaimed but secmingly iade mate easure cs suppression
of the vice. After the hullabaloo with which the pro-govern-
ment persons greeted the enunciation of a new opiwn policy
in the winter of 1929 had  ied away, after the visit of
the League of Nations Opiw Cormision had brougnt forth
nothing other than those facts that the Teivan coverment
General desired to be imowm, it is in keeping vith the
general situation to note that imports of Persian opium
(having a higher morphia content than other opiuns) were
Increased from 71,997 pounds valued at ¥1,031,788 to 103,829
pounds valued at 1,122,315, a matter which adds considerably
to the logitimate revenue from licensed smokers and very
appreciably to the so-called seoret revenue accruing to
the Govornment General through sales of opium residue to
Arug oompanies in Japen Proper for manufacture into morphine
and

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.89)
-5-
and heroin. Althouch this latter :tatement is a rumor,
there is mot much cout tut it reveals  iniline of the
true situation. As ceepe t positi or the minshuto
Partye o ,  ia at
- c ea
t
rule, to rot smmeiel
e.tions
whereon the Couneil tas Yoon mown to wimser with the
Govermor General ere intrim ically picayune.
There is tome basie tou doubtine t e bone lldes of
the statement of the Ulief of Feterul Police that the
existance of the purty obst tets the tity between Fom osans
and Japenese, inasmtel ue ac tiome bp te Jy ese thenselves
do not foster ary deep i presuior o ne ive for wmity but
rather cf attainine d intailine slsolute wnd des otic
supremacy, in comm erce nd otlerwise. ny instances in
trade practises i it be uoted alent t is point. It may
also be mentioned in passine tat there is a strong current
of opposition to i termarriace between Foriosans and Jajanese.
On the whole, the dissolution of the Minshuto because
of present radical tendencies is justified. However, the
political and social problems are not settled by the dis-
banding of this party. These will continue to crop up from
time to time and at some later date will have to be answered.
The writer believes that under all this controversy lies
an element of communism suoh as is known in Jepan Proper
and against whioh stern barriers have had to be raised.
This belief is naturally tempered by the understanding
that a considerable number of Formosans have never accepted
the

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
-0-
the Japanese rule wholeheartedly and swayed by outside
influences as well us by fancied sn veal rievences seize
upon any pretent to veact a uinet ole ad ini tpaticn.
File No. 800/ 10.1
CSR:TKH
In suintuplicate to the De arte t.
Copy to Consulate Goneral, Toyo.
Copy to Embassy, Toyo.
for note
MB
4 Carbon Copies
Received.K.It.C.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.88)
1月
75.
OF
FE
12
PT
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Taihoku, Taiwan, Jepeng er gmagg, 1931.
Confidential.
Repoirted Upricine of pavua 2 7 31
SUBJECT:
1-1055
in Tivn.
98193
file
Dage
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
MB
7
894A.
SIR:
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
I have tho o oi to . the De art t tt
894A.00/14
another uppieine of sava et i. l un ts lcen repested,
althouch on the te telle i the cutbreak the t iwn
Goverr nt coneral  so  to teny te wu or.
According to ,ains 
village near heito in l co lwefcetve, t er the
impression that their l w t e t on toen then.
rebelled and attaoked vwa e clice patrols in t near
this villa e with o e lo o. life. whouch no lot ils
were ule availe le, it w wt or yopested that a
1851
number or i n police orlicials wove ort red to the
scene of the alleged rebellion a thmt the Goverment
General was consulted  to he steps to be taken in
山
MAY 419
smoothing out the trouble.
FLED
The various official centers, the Taivan Govermment
General, the Takao Goverm ent, the Heito County Office,
issued catagorical denials of trouble, stating that
some person had repeated the history of a former uprising
 a present occurance. Nevertheless it is learned
that preparations against attaok were mede.
In

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
In estinatine the value of is uport of e-
bellion, the faet that be Dirceter e erel of
Administrutionout
oJn
C
for believinetut
therein, the troutle touts in he  wehension of the
saveges that they cre to be dep ivet c their lund in
the foothills une mountains  cre to be twansposted
into the plains cistslets,  lace hsve they can
obtain no livelihood  mich is otoriously unhcalthy
for them. Their i ealate  rehensio. was caused by
the arrival of a party of Jup eee a rveyors who pro-
ceeded to undertake a mar ie cf the istrict. Through-
out the entire sava e istrict this a rehension pre-
vails, inasmuch as there hus been an i creasing nuiber
of instances where the Jupanese ave cxpelled the
savages from their holdings  ve taken the land for
themselves.
According to certain sources of inforaation, the
statement of the inshuto Party that one of the primary
causes of the Musha Affair was the "landgrabbing" polioy
of the Japanese in the savage districts brought about
894A.00
the dissolution of that party (Despatch No. 71 dated
/13
Tobruary 24, 1931). It has now come to the notice of this
office that many Formosan Chinese, unrelated to the
Minshuto, are in accord with this condemnation of the
land polioy of the Japanese Goverrments and are citing
the Kanan Irrigation Projeot as an example - having
gone

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.90)
-3-
gone to the extent of publishing a booklet, mow banned
by the police, on the cubject, in vhich it is stated
as a pri ary pre ise tat mmis  a cther wsdertakings
are lvectel
a p-orviciale
vith luerutime
land-owmers.
There seems to le no  uestion tht the Ju anese
authorities sre havime trouble in the s vage listricts
and that among certain elements of the Fomosans there
is much unrest and ciscontent. There i also con-
siderable evidence that the lard policy of the Japanese
is causine a creat cual of this trouble and unrest.
Respectfully yours,
d
7
Charles S. Reed II
American Vice Consul.
800
CSR:TKH
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.86)
RECD
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
an, y , 101.
COM
CONFIDEH LAL.
SUBJECT: JU1231
the paveo
1-:055
mvieton of
FAN EASTERN AFFAIRS
F
13 1931
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STAT
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
894A.00/1
1 ave
cono
ag.1. 
ofat
5
tribel conmiot
200
nobe
ee Lat
trike.
821
savace triles
oote o ati-ere Peeli
PTLED
suoh as characterizud the revelt or lst cetcber, a
1:0
rather serioue as vct ts cast upon the alter by the
fact that the trihes attacted were utterly defense-
less and had been deprived of means of cefense by
the Japenese authorities whereas the attectinc tribe
was armed with rifles and amunition furniched y
the same authorities. The fommer are mowm as the
"proteoted" tribes, havine been disarmed rd secre ated
for partioipation in the uprising last October; the
latter are called the "allied" tribes, having assisted
the Japanese in quashing the rebellion and being
allowed
1

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
allowed possession ot the rifles tnd a unition issued
at thet to.
1
of savaccs bolon ine to the loleon to fbe, tle yf the
"allied" tribes. Althou h this m other imdications
pointed to a possible suncral attack  iho "allied"
tribes upon the defenseless " rotectec" tribee, no
urcent neasures of precaution were tehen by the Jap-
anese police and therefore the raice on the rorning
of the 25th were net vith clmost no orposition. It
is reported that some co  tabere of he Tatsua tribe
participated in the attack on the village of Rodof
and some 1o0 of the same tribe in the attack on the
village of Seepow, these villaces being the centers
of the "protected" tribes.
Latest bulletins indicate that the bodies of 197
savages have been recovered but that over l00 members
of the Seepow and Rodof tribes are still missing and
the majority of these are presumably dead. Practically
all the villages of the "proteoted" tribes have been
destroyed, Poarun, Rodof, Seepow, and Swuk.
These attacks on the 21st and 25th, as well as
prior inoidents, were motivated in part by a desire
to avenge the deaths of fellow tribesmen who were slain
while hunting down the members of the revolting
tribes, now the "proteeted" tribes, following the
Musha

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.90)
-5-
Musha affeir last your, nd partly uler the preva-
lent belief at slesine ee seepow
eto
t
tribee wow yoe
Circumstances load tro to  elleve that the Jap-
anese authorities micht have foressen
& conse uently
forestalled this trouble. I ie cuid to be a fact
that the Tateus teibe for o the has been wcking
pernission of the Japuse clice to ill the seepow
and hodof teibes en cs it in unacubtealy true that
numerous incidents sitee t.e ucha uprising carry the
conviction that he Tateua tribe  a et er "allied"
tribes were but vaitine for a faverable ov ortulity
to attack and mill thcir traditicnal enc ics. Tet,
notwithstanding tis meral acitation, the Jnese
police permitted these tribes to carry rifles and
allowed them large luantities of amunition, in the
meantime segregating the threatened tribes in a de-
fenseless position. That the latter were defenseless
and that the Japanese police seemingly made little
attempt to protect their charges would appear from
the faot that of the attackers only 1 was killed and
11 wounded.
On the whole it would seen that the charge is
somowhat justified that the Japenese police in the
savage districts are surprisingly unaware of what is
going

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
-4-
going on, as escd thi
afair,
10
were willly obl
-1。
It is of  ore than  a ime i bere t to te to
what extent the slauglter of so nany members of the
"protected" tribes works to the advantae of the
Japanese authorities. This results from the lesser
number of members of these tribes to be transported
fron their villages in the musha re ion to other
parts of Taiwan, for it is underetood that this en-
forced emigration was cdopted as e measure of punish-
ment for participation in the revolt last year and
as a measure of precaution to prevent further anti-
Japanese disturbances in the district. One of the
looal newspapers, in commenting upon the losses to
the Seepow and Rodof tribes, stated that "Emigration
was made easy".
This massacre will undoubtedly furnish con-
siderable fuel for political opponents of the pre-
sent central Government and will probably result in
changes in the personnel of the Taiwan Government
General and the Taichu Prefectural Government. The
present administration, both in Japan Proper and in
Taiwan, is confronted not only with a political
attmok for mal-administration but also with the very
aiffioult and delicate task of finding a solution
for

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.92)
-5-
for the preeert affeir. I' ls ertai t at, af the
ee ee ateeiei o
ato
nation, it is egually tve  t, is e latsna tot e
is not punished or in oaly pulished nominally, the
charge can be made that the Japamese re pow relatiat-
ing against the seupow  a hodof tribes Por the Jep-
anese lives lost at musha last year a te but
waited for the passine or i e to achieve tiis pur ose.
3
Although the Mi sluto Party has beon lisbanded
(Despatch No. 71 dated rebeuary 2s, ips1), i is sm-
pected thet unti-Goverit nt yarties nd press will
894A.00
foster rumors and issue statenents conde mine the
Japanese authorities for their actions in this cir-
cumstance. while uch of this matter vill be base-
less and serving only a denunciatory pur ose, thore
may come to light certain features which vill be
edifying as to what is really going on in the savage
districts, facts which are suppressed by the Japanese
authorities.
In business and financial ciroles this affair
has caused considerable uneasiness as to the possible
effeot on the negotiating a loan for the Lake Candidius
hyaro-eleotrio project. In this conneotion it may
be mentioned that there seems to be no disturbances
in that area and that the savages there seem reasonably
well-oontent

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.86)
-6-
well-content with th ir lot wnd ith the recompense
to be made for  e loas   oir villa er wen the
wat r lovel
aiud. 1to eur
teint
authorities et ime  e leet o to yonerve
the peace and safety of this re ion.
Respoctrully vo es,
Reeh
Churles . leed II
Arican vice Ccneul.
File iNo. 800
CSR: TKH
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to Consulate Gonerel, Tokyo.
Received..F.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.91)
RECD
OF
EE
88.
12
AMERIOANCONSULATE,
Taihm  Tarwat Jup en, y 8, 1951.
CONFIDENTIAL.
SUBJECt: Dis tur1231
1-1055
re ions ef Taiwan.
FAR EASTERN AFFA
IUN 13 1931
THE HONORABLE
ale
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
CORGTI
WASHINGTON..
894A.00/1
心一
SIR:
I tave the to or th
Despatch o. se cated y , loul co e mdne is-
R0.
turbances ia the wave we fo e o lai wn re te
9
massacre of over soo wellers or he seepow  nd lodof
tribes by the Tatsua trive. In view of additional
information concernine this incident vhich has come
to light tirou h additiorl  i slations of the local
press, it is necessary te make certain corrections
and to include futher explanations.
It would seem from these translat ions that the
Togan tribe was one of the "allied" tribes nd ot of
a
the "protected" tribes as had Leen sur ised from
JN15 19
earlier accounts. It would also appear that there is
no attempt to explain the decapitation of the 3 women
of the Togan tribe by the "protected" Musha tribe
other than as revenge for assistance in the pursuit
of and evidence against the revolting tribes after
the affair of last October. Collating all reports
now at hand, it is patent that the authorities are
giving this incident (if it really happened) as an
exoulpatory

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.88)
-2-
exculpatory otive tbr te later uttee by te Tatsua
tribe on the seepow . a noef trilen en.
C
tie
tion Poom to laota e e wyure er ater
the alleged eleyime of he 3 vo en is is et clear.
In any cace, it is csrtain  t botween ths Pate of
the denand sor surrenderiee or  e wesyons aa the
date scet br the prsrenlepine, t re vas supricient
time to plan as carey we e ssssere wmassturbed ly
police interventie. he vi s sec te a oto
tion that the Tatsua tuile wait el y of Jeotie te t re
surrendering of thlsse ms itions a a theresore the fear
of reprisals on the part of the "pfotectea" tribcs,
the slaying of the S women of the Togan tribe leing
stated by the police a buine one, car ot be comsi lered
seriously as an activatine cause c the subse uent
massacre.
In any case, all accou ts a ree that varicus in-
oidents prior to the massacre pointed to strained rele-
tions between the "allied" and the "protected" tribes
and that the former, having rifles and armunition,
needed but the slightest of excuses to attack the
defenseless tribesmen and their villages. Further-
more, all accounts agree that the police, knowing of
this desire to attack the "protected" tribes or wil-
fully oblivious to this situation, acted in a manner
whioh

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.88)
-3-
which it  uae , t loast
passively,
tuoc
It is
t
leneth
turned to e te erea t
this space uf  e wi taally u ted shct
their revenge i it Te comtated  a mat, as immuendo
has it, thelr mries, te se wlhesities, le
offored a yevr yloave teso sul or wacnaellr.
I enclose e  
Chromicle ef Apvll wo, losl wte vuitcrlally mie-
cusses this sost yecest t  a e or tbeealk. It is cted
that this editerial touc e  on, in mo umcertain
manner, the de ree ce o lpahility o? the Japarese
authorities, following mhe sate lines d etressing
the same points set corth in  y  rovieus cespatch.
There is no uestion that all unbiased olservers agree
as to this measure cf culpability.
As for the punislment to be meted out, the
following would seem to be pertinent. The Police
Bureau of the Taiwan Government Generel has stated
that the leaders of the Tatsua tribe lhave been called
to the looel police station and have been rebuked
for their attacks in defiance of instructions pre-
lously given to them. These leaders have apologized
for these attacks and have esked for lenienoy inas-
nwch as, although they have offended against instruotion,
the

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
the savages beheaded in the massacre where the slayers
of innocent Japanese last October. It is also re-
ported that the Department of Overseas Affairs have
taken the view that, as this was inter-tribal con-
flict and no revolt against authority, there would
be or should be no further developments. In other
words, there will be no punishment save the trifling
measures of surrendering rifles already ordered sur-
rendered and the surrendering of the heads of the
decapitated "protected" tribesmen.
Respectfully yours,
d
Charles S. Reed II
American Vice Consul.
Enclosure:
Clipping from the
Japan Chronicle.
File No. 800
CSR:TKH
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Cerbon Copiem

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.87)
utg t
MORE TROUBLE IAN FORMOSL
er
SOMETHING very sinister runs
through the story of the latest
e
Formosan trouble. It will be re
membered that last October the
Musha tribe killed a number of
raes
e
policemen and their families, and
o  a
were duly punished. The accounts
e vds
of how it all happened were not
or 
particularly satisfactory. One story
ame
had it that the trouble arose over
  n
the rejection of an aboriginal woman
whom a policeman had taken as hist
h
mistress: this, apparently, was not
denied: but exactly what signifi-
t
cance lay in the other story of the
 es
offence taken because a policeman
t a
would not drink at a popular festi
val was never explained. It was also
e
confessed that there had been a good
deal of forced (and unpaid) labour
 t
which the tribe greatiy resented.
e ur
The punitive operations taken
d a
o en场
against the tribe, were fated not to
be the sole penalty which they were
ORS
to suffer for their rebellion. It ap
AAN
pears that in the troubles of October
two tribes had given their assistance
r
to the Japanese authorities—the
 e
Tatsua and the Togan clans. To
these a large number of rifles and a
large quantity of ammunition were
distributed, so that the statement
uur
that the assistance afforded by
these tribes was the giving of
din
evidence against the Musha seems
r
hardly adequate. They presumably
t o
took part in the punitive measures
r
also. But, stranger still, they were
o 
allowed to retain the arms and car-
ér
tridges. Only after six months did
Éec
a party of police go up to demand
their return. The story as publish-
have had an excellent argument for
ed in the newspapers is somewhat
retaining them in order to protect
compressed, and it is not very clear
themselves from the bloody-minded
when the demand for the return of
Musha. However, the accounts say
the arms was made, except that it
nothing of any objections in princi-
was some time before the outrage
ple being raised to the surrender of
now reported. What is not at all
the arms. Instead, during the days
clear is whether it was before or
of grace that they had managed to
after three Togan women had (as is
get, they conspired together, sur-
alleged) been captured by members
rounded the villages of the Musha,
and, just 'before dawn, massacred
their 184 inhabitants, and burnt all
n
po
their houses. A surprise attack, of
 e
course, is always in favour of the
ENTIST
assailants, but nothing could ex
. .A.)
plain how it came about that 184
members of a warlike tribe werd
the problem. But it cannot be
verore.
described as a very successful essay
st   o
at civilising a people who have
ate
many good qualities.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
have had an excellent argument for
retaining them in order to protect
themselves from the bloody-minded
Musha. However, the accounts say
nothing of any objections in princi-
ple being raised to the surrender of
the arms. Instead, during the days
of grace that they had managed to
get, they conspired together, sur
rounded the villages of the Musha,
and. just before dawn, massacred
their 1S1 inhabitants, and burnt all
ttheir hoses A surprise atlack ol
course, is alwas in fayour of the
assailants, but nothing could ex
plain how it came about that IS1
members of a warlike tribe werd
massacred with only one casualty to
the attackers, except the fact the
murderers were all armed with
modern ritles, whereas the villagers
had nothing but their primitive
weapons not to speak of their being
attacked in their sleep. The ques
tion arises whether the revenge for
the three women was the motive of
the attack at all. The account given
in the Japan 1drertiser says that
the Tatsua tribe had been contem-
plating vengeance " for some time"
against their enemies, and decided
to take it before surrendering the
rifles. After the events of last
October it may be supposed that the
relations between the Tatsua and
The Musha were
not particularly
cordial: and it is
incomprehensible
why the Tatsua
tribe, however
friendly, should be allowed to re
main so formidably armed, or, if it
sas considered that they must be
Tmabled to protect th mselves from
Musha vengeance, why the poilce
should choose the very moment
when three women of the other
friendly tribe had been murdered, to
demand the return of the pifles. If
it is true that this wanton murder
of women took place, nothing could
be better calculated to precipitate
the tragedy than the demand for
the rifles. The tribe would naturally
consider that they must give their
enemies a lesson while they could;
and when they demurred at giving
up the arms, the police must have
been very obtuse not to understand
why this delay was sought. Conse-
quently the story that the assailants
did all their work, cut off a
hundred and eighty-four heads, and
ran off the woods before the police
could come within sight of them
argues a good deal of contributory
Iegligence. One account states that
the Tatsua clieftains are under
police surveillance pending pun-
ishment—not, apparently,"under
arrest; and that most of the rifles
and ammunition have been "con-
fiscated." Another says that, follow.
ing the massacre, the tribesmen sur-
rendered the rifles to the police,
with expressions of the deepest
regret that they had been so impul-
sive, and had been severely admoni-
shed by the police. The tribesmen
are said to have surrendered posses-

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
and ammunition have been "con-
fiscated." Another says that, follow-
ing the massacre, the tribesmen sur-
rendered the rifles to the police,
Editorial from
with expressions of the deepest
Jan co
regret that they had been so impul
52
11
sive, and had been severely admoni-
shed by the police. The tribesmen
are said to have surrendered posses-
sion of a hundred out of the hundred
MORE TROUBLE IN FORMOSA.
and eighty-four heads, and to have
promised in future to abstain from
all violence against the Musha tribe.
The worth of that promise would
through the story of the latest
appear to depend upon the number of
Formosan trouble. It will be re
Musha left. After their punishment
membered that last October the
for the October rebellion and the
Musha tribe killed a number of
present massacre, they must be
policemen and their families, and
seriously depleted in number.
were duly punished. The accounts
The affair is worth an official
of how it all happened were not
inquiry, and it is a pity that by the
particularly satisfactory. One story
time the Diet meets again so many
had it that the trouble arose over
months will have passed that it will
the rejection of an aboriginal woman
be in danger of being forgotten. The
whom a policeman had taken as his
new Department of Overseas Affairs
mistress; this, apparently, was not
gives the members of the Diet an
denied; but exactly what signifi-
opportunity of insisting upon infor-
cance lay in the other story of the
mation which formerly they could
offence taken because a policeman
only demand of the Premier, who,
would not drink at a popular festi-
not being in direct charge of the
val was never explained. It was also
overseas dominions, could always
confessed that there had been a good
play for time and put off replying.
deal of forced (and unpaid) labour
The Department should also be held
which the tribe greatly resented.
responsible for what takes place in
The punitive operations taken
the Dominions. In this affair, it
against the tribe, were fated not to
looks as though the Tatsua tribe
be the sole penalty which they were
had been expecting some hostile
to suffer for their rebellion. It ap.
move from the Musha, but that,
pears that in the troubles of October
since nothing had happened, they
two tribes had given their assistance
had made what excuse they could
to the Japanese authorities—the
for " vengeance." and the Musha. in
Tatsua and the Togan clans. To
spite of their inactivity since
these a large number of rifles and a
October do not seem to have been
large quantity of ammunition were
afforded any protection Fears of
distributed, so that the statement
vengeance might easily induce the
that the assistance afforded by
Tatsua to become aggressors, but
these tribes was the giving of
such a fear can hardly be regarded
evidence against the Musha seems
as a sufficiently good excuse for a
hardly adequate. They presumably
general massacre. In the circum-
took part in the punitive measures
stances the massacre takes on the
also. But, stranger still, they were
aspect of a belated and excessively
allowed to retain the arms and car-
savage punishment for their pre-
tridges. Only after six monthe did
vious rebellion. The peculiarity of
a party of police go up to demand
Formosan native affairs is that it is
their return. The story as publish-
always when everything seems most
ed in the newepapers is somewhat
peaceful that the most formidable
compressed, and it is not very clear
outbreaks occur. Here, for instance,
when the demand for the return of
the Tatsua have had deadly weapons
the arms was made, except that it
in their possesion for over six
was some time before the outrage
months. but it is not until the police
now reported. What is not at all
pay them a friendly visit. when they
clear is whether it was before or
ought to be on their best behaviour.
after three Togan women had (as is
that they break out into an act of
alleged) been captured by members
savagery exaggerated by the posme
of the Muska tribe and decapitated.
sion of modern weapons. Evidently
Nor are there any details explaining
there still remains a good deal to
this atrocity. The kidnapping of
learn about the ideas and motives
women for the sake of their heads is
which sway the aboriginal tribes.
not the usual method of the head-
All the mistakes made tend to redace
hunter, who is traditionally a more
Saring raider than euch an act
the number of the aborigines and so
bring us towards the liquidation of
the problem. But it cannot be
was some special act of
described as a very successful
ulbly conmected with

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
MORE TROUBLE IN FORMOSA.
and eighty-four heads, and to have
promised in future to abstain from
QOMETHING very sinister runs
all violence against the Musha tribe.
The worth of that promise would
through the story of the latest
appear to depend upon the number of
Formosan trouble. It will be re-
Musha left. After their punishment
membered that last October the
for the October rebellion and the
Musha tribe killed a number of
present massacre. they must be
policemen and their families, and
seriously depleted in number.
were duly punished. The accounts
The affair is worth an official
of how it all happened were not
inquiry, and it is a pity that by the
particularly satisfactory. One story
time the Diet meets again so many
had it that the trouble arose over
months will have passed that it will
the rejection of an aboriginal woman
be in danger of being forgotten. The
whom a policeman had taken as his
new Department of Overseas Affairs
mistress: this, apparently, was not
gives tie members of the Diet an
denied; but exactly what signifi
opportunity of insisting upon infor
cance lay in the other story of the
mation which formerly they could
offence taken because a policeman
only demand of the Premier, who.
would not drink at a popular festi-
not being in direet charge of the
val was never explained. It was also
overseas dominions, could always
confessed that there had been a good
play for time and put off replying.
deal of forced (and unpaid) labour
The Department should also be held
which the tribe greatly resented.
responsible for what takes place in
The punitive operations taken
the Dominions. In this affair, it
against the tribe, were fated not to
looks as though the Tatsua tribe
be the sole penalty which they were
had been expecting some hostile
to suffer for their rebellion. It ap
move from the Musha, but that,
pears that in the troubles of October
since nothing had happened, they
two tribes had given their assistance
had made what excuse they could
to the Japanese authorities—the
for " vengeance," and the Musha. in
Tatsua and the Togan clans. To
spite of their inactivity since
these a large number of rifles and a
October. do not seem to have been
large quantity of ammunition were
afforded any protection Fears of
distributed, so that the statement
vengeance might easily induce the
that the assistance afforded by
Tatsua to become aggressors, but
these tribes was the giving of
such a fear can hardly be regarded
evidence against the Musha seems
as a sufficiently good excuse for a
hardly adequate. They presumably
general massacre. In the cireum-
took part in the punitive measures
stances the massacre takes on the
also. But, stranger still, they were
aspect of a belated and excessively
allowed to retain the arms and car-
savage punishment for their pre-
tridges. Only after six months did
vious rebellion. The peculiarity of
a party of police go up to demand
Formosan native affairs is that it is
their return. The story as publish-
always when everything seems most
ed in the newepapers is somewhat
peaceful that the most formidable
compressed, and it is not very clear
outbreaks occur. Here, for instance,
when the demand for the return of
the Tatsua have had deadly weapons
the arms was made, except that it
in their possession for over six
was some time before the outrage
months. but it is not until the police
now reported. What is not at all
pay them a friendly visit. when they.
clear is whether it was before or
ought to be on their best behaviour.
after three Togan women had (as is
that they break out into an act of
alleged) been captured by members
savagery exaggerated by the posses
of the Musha tribe and decapitated.
sion of modern weapons. Evidently
Nor are there any details explaining
there still remains a good deal to
this atrocity. The kidnapping of
learn about the ideas and motives
women for the sake of their heads is
which sway the aboriginal tribes.
not the usual method of the head-
All the mistakes made tend to reduce
hunter, who is traditionally a more
the number of the aborigines and so
daring raider than such an act
bring us towards the liquidation of
would suggest. It seems more likely
the problem. But it cannot be
that this was some special act of
described as a very successful essay
vengeance, possibly connected with
at civilising a people who have
the part that the women (or per-
many good qualitien.
haps one or two of the three) had
We come to the main act in the
Ay. It is stated that, on being
 to retara the rifes and
lon that had been lent to
Tateee tribesmen surren-
put off returning

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.87)
W
P 4TA F
Division of
DIV
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
193
DEC 1 5 1931
2625-1-
11.1
JAPAM.
RECEIVED
er 10, 1981.
solonmip between other
DIVISION OF
ry and Dopendencies.
Formose.
Fermoean Aborigdnes ttack police.
8940
bout 1100 'k aur.11.band
of rormosan aboriines attacked e panee police post at 1stan.
Tosai pm. Talemu rovince of : ormos, killing five Japanese and
eapturing move othore. Later one o those captured wee rund shot
7
S
to death and another wounded 1n the th 1gh by : bullet, the others
were found wamurt in one of the mearby valleys of t is wild district.
The Leed ineludes three police offi cers, two women cand one chi d.
894A.00/
while the prieonere found unharmed inoluded, one policend, and
three assistant polieemen, e rest bei members or their funilies.
Ascording to the palice varai on of the affair, on ridey, four
matives berrowed a fafle and three cartridges from the police of-
féeials at Xayo in order, as they ahkimed to take part in a eme.
It is beletved tiat these ware later joined by the others, md the
atteek was earried out  saturday morning while the police were
pervieins repaire to the road ot Plstas. The wife of one of the
pallee seelmg the atteck telephened in the inrommatiom, but whem
recmfercemente arrived shertly therearter, she too was found deek.
The peliee sont 1so mem to the meeme a the affair, but due te the
wild mature er the country they wese umable te eap tare the eavages.
The atteekere eme frem the Kaye tre be, med ecmseywently the ehter
at tmat tribe wae ealled in nd ardered to heep the rest ef hie
twábe in eréer, thie he promised to es.
NUV 22 1943
FILHD
It wme in thés eae distriet last year mhere the mmuche
smeae tesk plese. The Zaye, a mall toabe, real de about so

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.91)
enmséeered cme of the most feresious greupe of the abexigimes of
Formese, and while several expeditions have been ment by the Japan-
ese to mubjugate the Taiyar, non or them havo been sussessful.
The auee of the raid, according to the press, has not yet
been deterdned, but mo tn l1ely whe chu ee ve the sa
as thoee which proapted the ush trege in lus0. hile this
attack was waall and looal, it proves that the ap nese heve not
ret been able to sub jugate the mo e ferocious of the Fonmosan
aberigimes and that the Jspanese are still held in conteapt by
theme
souree: Lesal press.
Tor und in the absence of
The Lilitary Attache.
Thamms G• Cranford, Jr.
lst Lt., C....C.. (DOL)
Assietant Military ttaohe.
Report No.597t.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.00/
SEE
795.94/4059
FOR8
11
FROM Taihoiau
(..Ketchan......) DATED ...Eeb...,...l932
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING: certain uneasiness enong Chinese residents of raiwan
due to the SinoJe p nese situation. Governnent is
extencing assistence to refugees fron Foochow.
1s
8

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.80)
QUINTUPLICATE
RICA COULSE.
Taihoku, Taima, Japm, Pebrumry 5, 1958.
Sub jeet:
Reperouesioms of the Sino-Je paneso
Situmtion in Taimm.
THE JOMORABLE
THEY
A RLNOT.
SIRI
I heve the honor to report the  rosent situatiem
in Taimn as affested by the Sino-Japanose hostilities
in Mememrie and chine. Until the outbrenk of aotual
fismting in Shenghai in the Latter part of January every
thine remeimed calm in aiwmm, but sinoe the so-called
Shamgtal imeidemt there lhes been manifeste a eertais
wmemetmess wene the Chinese rasi dents of the ialane, whe
ber about 4,000.
On Febreary fires the Chinese Consul General at
Taihekm, weéer amstruetiems frem the Chimese Legatiem at
Tokye, semt cus motsess to the various Chimese Asseciatéiens
throughout Taimen that chénese residests should ramats
gies end retresn fsem sny camensteetioms er csevereetsems
regerding the sie Jaensse s1 tetes. Asy chsse te
wisbel to return to Chime weule bo seellstated Sa taking
their eepertume.
Mese es the chdasse rest deste have remntase, eniy a
ate thve eve n  tsseete eertes of g tente
       f J

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.83)
Fammemm Chinese owims allegianee to Japaa.
However, it is reported that on the night of February
thind mhout forty chinese ware rounde up and held in
detemtiem by the polioe on the 2und thet they wore
talking too muah  ad sprendine unfounded rusore. it
1o wnderatood wat Cey i ne held in jail forbout
t wo, although gothing ms been publishe in the
newopepere about this matter. hese mon were arreoted
in eesordanee with a police order proaulgsted in the
prese that axyome epreading unfounded rusore osloulated
to disturt the peece of Tai man would be severaly dealt
ath. It is believed that the rumors reforred to " a
prest vietery of Chinese troops over Jopanose marines."
and me probably the reoult of chinose propegnde sont
at eer the govermant radio a tetion at Munking, as
these are many chinese hore who oun radics end are in
toush with thds station.
O Petreary third the eaion hosen le mer
"Gheom Naru" brough 398 Japenose res1dents frem Foeekew
te Keeluns. or these refugeee 116 were Japanese and 212
mare Pammesee Chimese emins allegianee to Japem, mestly
betng mmmm and shaudren. Owing to the tireetening
astmatien tn Seuth Chame resultims frem the Shengtal
fichting the Japassse Consel Genesel at Feechew erteesd
the eemstses. uare resugees are expestel to stve
frem seeth Ctimm perts to Keslune.
The Tatenn Goversmssst Genesel la ententtng te
pt  s, lee nd ttene

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.88)
twaims have been arranged for the ascsnodatiom of these
people.
So far as oan be aseortained there has been no
umusual conoentretion of troops in iwmn, The prosent
and normal garrison ls believod to be ahout 8,000 troops,
whieh are conoentreted in  northern contingent of infantry
statmemed at Toihoku and a couthern infentry contingent
statsemed at Tainan. In addition there are garrisoms of
heavy artillery at Keolung and at the Pescaderos Islands,
a Japamese mmeveal bese. One battalion of mountaim artillery
is alss besed at To ihoku.
Respeetrully yours,
Joh B. Ketob
Amerioan Consul.
Pe . s
A true cyry of
thegery
inal.
SKH

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.92)
DER
Department of State
VMLRICAT CON UL TE,
RECEIVED
Toihoku, Taiwan, Jupan, May 8 1934.
JUN 4-1934
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Subjeot: Conferonco of Loca
Governors in Taiwan
The Honorble
A
sir:
894A.00/19
I have the honor to ie om o that on pri1 3, 24,
and 5, 1934, there  hold confer nce of provinoial
and prefeetural overnors t theivnn coverment Gone ral.
This conference, hich  ocome an arost unnual
event, is for the purposo of isoussine various loeal
questions in each province, nd or co-ordinatinc the
administretive policies of cach provinoe vith the larger
national polioy of the Govornment Gonoral.
The conferenoe after hearin an address by Covernor
General Nakagawa, was presided over by the Direotor General
of Administration  r. lliratsuka.
Among the more important uestions discussed was the
need for arousing a national spirit mong the Formosan
inhabitants, and for the Japonese and Formosans to better
心
unders tand eaoh other. The neoessity for the Formosans to
leam the Jap nese language and to make Japanese the na  ona
language of Taiwen was also streased in this conneotion.
The savage question, social and hygienio problems
were also disoussed.
As

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.93)
-8
As regards industrial matters, the most important
was the restriction of rice aoroage.
The more inportant parts of the speeohes of the
Governor General, tho Dirootor oneral nd the various
local governors are iver in he attached nccompaniments.
Rospeotfully ours,
John B. Ketoham,
American Consul.
Enolos ure No. 1:
Gist of speeah of Governor General at
opening of conference.
Enolosure No. 2:
Gist of speeoh of Director Ceneral of
Administration.
Enclesure No. 3:
Opinions of Looal Governors.
Enolosure No. 4:
Condensed statoments of Looal Governors
on agrioultural nd industrial matters.
Enalomure No. 5:
Governor General Nakagawa quoted on oonferenoe.
Newspaper comment on oonferenoe.
File No. 800
JEK/ch
Copy for the Department of State.
Copy for Consulate General.
to cou
he sigeed anlat

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1.
Gist of Speech of Govemor General
Nekagawa at the opening of the conference.
Refermnce was made to the withdrawal of Japan from
the League of Nations, nd to the establishment of a monarohy
in "Manchukuo".
Stress was laid on the necessity for the unity of all
inhabitants of Taiwan, and that cultivation of the national
spirit is necessary.
Increased prosperity for Taiwan depends on sound
development of public bodies. (cities, towns, and villaces) -
(This was a reference to the self-government question)
Industrial development is the source of the people's
power and national prosperity. The Government Goneral plans
to investigate the method of developing and improving the
industries of Taiwan.
The mission of Taiwan in developing narkets in South
China nd the South Seas should be kept in mind.
The importance of police administration was stressed.
The savage outbreak in Tai to Prefecture of last year was
mentioned, but peace and order has again been restored.
The guiding and civilizing of the savages is of utmost
importance.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2.
Gist of speeoh made by the Director General of
Administration Mr. Hiroyoshi Hiratsuka at the Conference
of Local Governors of Taiwan, April 23, 1934:
Worshippins of shrines.
orship int s rine h wie luperi1 lousehola forms a
basis of tho national pirits oi fapan und of the excellenco
of Japan in the vorld. very opportunity shouid be taken
advantage of in cultivating this idea and in mating the
islanders unders tand the nationalistic belief. In this
connection I am repeatin  int  hove said in the last
conference in ay, 1935.
Official discipline.
Official discipline ust be enhanced, s sonetime
officials are punished for corruption. Further supervision
and warnings should be iven, and in employing men for
publio service a creat deal or care should be exercised in
order that the administrat ive functionin nay not be hindered.
Administration of public bodies.
The publie bodies or a1 an (cities, towns, d villages)
are making development, but the civic training io far from
being satisfactory. The trainin of citizens in self-govern-
ment is necessary in developing local administration of
Taiwan. Education o1 ublic spirits anong the people is
necessary. The bus iness or public bodies is increasing and
their budgets are expanding. Local loans are also on the
inorease. However, there is a limit to the taxable power
of citizens, and appropriations not urgently required should
be avoided in order to avoid carrying over a large surplus
to the following year. Further attention to this matter is
desired in view of local finances.
Adjustment of business relatine to military affairs.
The change of the times urges improvement and progress
of various defects in national defense. As a result the
business relating to military affairs has become complicated.
Personnel and materials required should always be at hand,
and the business relating to military affairs should be put
in order to meet requirements. Mobilization plans require
speedy exeoution when necessary, nd all arrangements should
be made in peace time. Constant training is necessary for
testing mobilization plans, and improvement and progress in
this business is always des ired.
Development of eduoation.
Education forms a basis for civilization and administra-
tion. The urgent need is to arouse the nati onal spirit to
assist in the prosperity of the Imperial Household. On
April 3, the anniversary of the acoession to the throne of
Emperor Meiji, representatives of 56,000 teaohers in the
whole of the Empire assembled in front of the Imperial
Palace and held a meeting for arousing the national spirit.
They offered felicitations on the birth of the Imperial heir.
At that time His Majesty granted a message. Teachers should
abide by the Imperial wishes and devote their efforts to
enhancement

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
enhanoement of national morality and spirit.
Propagation of national language.
Propagation of the national lany uage is an ossential
factor in the administration of  aiwum,in inouloating the
national spirit, strengthening nutional ideas vid in
developing nationalism in individuals. This hns an important
bearing on unity, mnd advance in civilizetion. only 20% of
Taiwan's population understand the Japx nese lu uage, which
is regrettable. Due, however, to your encouragament in
recent years and to awakenin of local people as nationals,
in 1933 there were 1,600 schoo1s tenchine the language with
over 80.ooo students.her il1 be rentor inerense in
the current Iiscal year. n viev o Vis  ituation the
Government Ceneral des ires further encouragenent so that
all of the islanders will speak the national language as
soon as possible. e have inc luded, therefore, substantial
subsidies to these lan uage schools in this year's budget.
You are requested to comply vith the des ire of the Govern-
ment General to thoroughly propugate and encourage the use
of the national language, to urgo awakening of the poople,
and to encourage enthusiastic love ad interest in the
national language.
Encouragement of social vork.
Regarding the cenerosity and benovolence of the Imperial
Household His xoellency the Governor General has lready
explained. During the past forty years Taiwan hns been
the recipient of tho Imperial benevolence, and the entire
population of Taiwan is appreciative. pecial Imperial
grants have been made to social work in Taiwan, and you are
requested to make people feel appreciative of the Imperial
benevolenoe in order that the Imperial wishes may be oomplied
with and to exert efforts lor development of social work.
Industrial enoouragement.
The sugar industry of Taiwan has developed to suoh an
extent as to supply the entire requirements of Japan. How-
ever, further efforts are necessary to obtain a real
independent footing and to compete with fore ign sugar.
Greater efforts should be exerted to find markets abroad.
With respeot to oontrol of rice, in relation to which
encouragenent of special crops is necessary, care should be
taken to avoid interfering with existing important industries
suoh as sugar. Further development of the sugar industry is
desired through guidance and encouragament in cultivation
of sugar on paddy fields.
Tea is one of the staple exports of Taiwan, and for
many years has contributed to the economic development of
the island. However, it has been very inactive in recent
years, and now stands at a oross road. That is, Oolong tea
has lost its largest oustomer due to the business depression
in the United States, and Pouchong exports have deoreased
owing to the exolusion of Japanese goods and.tariff barriers.
However, development of the market in Manohuria has become
promising to the great relief of the tea industry.
Rationalization of produotion and sales is desired, and
thoroughgoing

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
thoroughgoing studies, directions and encouragement are
necessary to save the industry fram the depression.
Bananas, pinea ples and sweet oranges are important
produets and have a close bearing on the econonio world
of Taiwan. The pineapple ind ustry has recently developed,
but the recent condition of this industry is liable to
interrupt its development. The coverntent Geeral there-
fore planned a merger of canners to tide over the present
diffioult s1 tuation and to build a foundation for future
development. Since the foundingt/Tanchukuo" exports of
oranges, vegetables and other gricultural products to that
country have become noticeable and brisk. he future of
these exports is promising. lowever, due to insuffi ient
facilities the exports lack control, nd unity and coopera-
tion of shippers and others in the trade are necessary to
obtain a sound development of the export trade. The Govern-
ment General is considering some appropriate measures, and
you also are requested to encourage the orange and vegetable
industry according to local condit ions.
To assist and encourage camerce and industries, to
increase utility of materials, and to promote and regulate
exports and imports re important from the standpoint of
industrial development of Taiwan, coupled with the develop-
ment of various primitive industries. In the commerce and
industries of Taiwan there are many which can be further
developed through control nd rationalization. In this
respeot production, sales, etc. should be further studied.
The forestry administration of Taiwan has the purpose
of assuring a permanent supply of forestry products, and
rationalized utility and exploration of existing forests
through completion of riparian works and control of mountains.
Careless felling of trees in forests, which are the sources
of rivers and streams s hould be warned against, and in
the lowlands 1ndiscriminate reclamation of forests and plains
should be checked. In view of the geographio conditions of
Taiwan attention should be paid to special tropioal forests,
and pernament increase in forestry resouroes is desired.
The fishing industry of Taiwan has shown rapid develop-
ment in reoent years. However, in the light of rioh sea
resouroes around Taiwan muoh greater development depends on
future equipment of facilities. That is, intensifioation
of ooastwise and distant sea fishing and exploration of
fishing grounds in neighboring South China and the South
Seas are most important in view of the present situation.
Your especial attention is desired in developing the fishing
industry.
The mining industry of Taiwan in recent years has
presented an unprecedented activity. Exploration of mineral
resouroes has become more and more important. The mineral
resouroes in Taiwan are now attracting attention. Especially
the produotion of gold is showing an epoohal inorease,
keeping pace with the enoouragement polioy of the Govermment
and the trend of the general eoonomio world. The petroloum
of

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
of Taiwan required as fuel for war supplies and by industries
has a very important miss ion. The Government Ceneral had
felt long ago the need of exploring oil fields of Taiwan,
and has exerted efforts in encouraging exploration and
mining. In view of recent conditions the Taiwan covermient
General has this year included large subsidies for oil
exploration in the current year's budget in order to help
positive exploration of Taiwan' oil fields. Therefore,
future development of told nining in northern nd eastern
parts of Taiwan and of the oil industry of Taiwan is looked
forward to with much interests. You are requested to
comply with the policy of the Covermment Ceneral and to
thoroug ly cooperate.
Rice control.
The policy concerning rice i: one o. the nost i portant
and serious economic and politioal problems of Japan. For
solution of this problem the Law Coverning Control of Rice
was enacted at the last session of the Diet and has been
enforeed from November last year. In Taiwen, however, in
order to control rice for shipments to Japan during the
season of arrivals agricultural nd industrial associations
1n various provinces encoura ed storing of unhusked rice
and thus partly contributed, as you are well aware, to the
rice control. A bumper rice crop of 1933 was estimated
throughout Japan and colonies, and this has nade further
contro1 necessary. ince last fall the Department of
Agriculture and orestry, the Department of Overseas Affairs,
the Chosen Govermment Ceneral, nd the Taiwan Government
General have continuod consultation regarding reduction of
rice acreage, restriction of importation into Japan of rice
from colonies, and encouragement of storing of unhusked
rice. As a result it was decided to store for a long period
6 million koku (1 koku = 5.12 bushels) of unhusked rioe in
Japan proper and 3 million koku in Chosen. However, as
conditions in Taiwan differ fran Japen und Chosen, it was
agreed to obta in the reduction of rice production through
cultivation of sugar cane and other special crops on rice
fields. The purpose is to positively encourage various
profitable crops and to make for diversification of crops.
Increased profits of farmers are planned, and at the seme
time contribution to the rice control is contemplated.
Your guidance and enoouragement are desired to obtain
results. I take this opportunity to explain to you for
your reference the proceedings of deliberations on rice at
the recent session of the Imperiel Diet.
As s tated above a bumper orop was estimated in Japan
proper in 1933, and according to figures published at the
end of Jamuary this year the aotual yields amounted to
over 70,000,000 koku, an unprecedented orop. Stocks of
rioe carried over were also large, and the question of rice
control has become further pressing. The conoensus of
opinion in the Diet was that facilities should be enlarged
for rice control and that imports of colonial rioe must be
regulated and controlled. The special rice fund has been
1noreased 1n maximm from Yem 700,000,000 to Yen 850,000,000.
The Department of Agrioulture and Forestry decided to buy
oolonia1

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
colonial rice. Three bills drafted by the Government of
Tokyo with the above purpose in view were approved by the
Diet, and these laws are Law Regulating Imports of Colonial
Rice (extraordinary law), Law Governing disposition of
Rice Owmed by the Government, and Amendment to Special
Account Law Governing Supply and Demand of Rice. The Upper
House and the House of Representatives both maintained
that these measures are of a temporary nature to meet
tomporary needs and that therefore a special board for
investigation of rice should be organized immediately and
that a fundamental rice policy should be worked out and
submitted to an extraordinary session of the Diet. These
laws were approved with the above rider attached. Thus for
the time being there is no ohange in the exports of rice
to Japan from Taiwan und Chosen. iowever, as these measures
are for temporary requirements, further studies are necessary
hereafter for working out fundamental polioy through coope-
ration of Japan proper nd colonies.
Guidance and supervision of industrial associations.
Industrial associations are important self-governing
organizations for developing local industries and economios.
Recently these associations are inoreasing and developing
to our delight. However, in sorutinizing the s tanding of
these associations some lack the spirit of the associations
and look to their own profits. Some have internal disputes
and scandals. Such is extremely regrettable. Recently the
economic conditions of Taiwan are turning somewhat favorable,
and this opportunity should be taken advantage of in
thoroughly guiding and supervising these associations for
their enlargement and stabilization.
Improvement of police administration.
The purpose of police administration is to prevent
crime, to expedite disposition of cases already ocourred,
and to maintain constant peace and order. In order to
inorease efficiency of the police administration and to
perfeot peace and order there is muoh to be done in improv-
ing the police system. It is not neoessary to say that
muoh depends on personnel. Recently due to your efforts
fairness prevails in appointments, discharges, rewards,
punishments, posts, eto. However, there are still some
among the police personnel who aot against discipline and
injure the prestige of the police. Polioe officers should
correot wrongs of the publio, and in spite of the fact that
they s hould show example to the publio they sametime slacken
their disoipline. Suoh slackening of discipline greatly
refleots upon execution of duties. Especial efforts are
des ired in enhanoing police morale and discipline.
Adjustment of savege administration.
Peace and order generally prevail among the savages.
Some tribes in deep mountains where guidanoe by polioe is
difrioult sometimes misunderstand the government and take
rebellious attitude. However, it is a source of gratifica-
tion that generally saveges place confidence in the govern-
ment in proteotion and guidanee and that their extent of
oivilization

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
civilization is advancing. However, at the present time
some armed preparedness is still necessary in addition to
the civilizing and educating of the savages. The final
objeot of the sovage administration is by concentration,
guidance, and further efforts in providing savages with
work, in education nd civilization, hyciene, etc., to
disiilusion them nd to nake tham simple, honest and loyal
subjects. The investigation of 1 nd required by savages
and of savages started in 1930 has not yet been completed.
However, during the past four yenrs the conditions of
savages and their territories have been and are being
gradually known. Based on data obtained from the investica-
tions the Govermment (eneral lans rodual i prove ent and
revision in the savage ud di i tration. It is planned to
have savages living in deep mountuins, proteoted by natural
fortresses, emigrate in groups nd to rationalize ceneral
facilities for civilizing and providing savages with work.
The solution of the uestion relating to savages living
in the deep mountains is not only for the benefit of their
future happiness but also for eneral peace as well as
riparian works and utility and development of mountain
regions. Also intensifioation of sav ge administration can
be effected through their emigration, nd as such this is
a very important undertaking. owever, execution of this
plan is not easy. Care should be taken to avoid occurrence
of any incidents out of desire for a speedy achievement.
Local conditions in savage districts should be quietly
watched, ond it is necessory tmt the plans are carried out
at most opportune time. Last year a general polioy of
savage administration was decided and nde known to interested
officials. The tribes in Taiwan are many nd varied, and
their customs likewise vary. Geographio and other factors
also differ in one district from another. What is adopted
in one district cannot be followed in another with the
seme amount of success. In carrying out measures objects
should first be carefully studied, and there should be no
mistakes in the selection of time and place.
Improvement of sanitary facilities.
With the progress of civilization in Taiwan sanitary
faoilities are being gradually equipped and improved. How-
ever there remain muoh to be done in improvement and
extension of hospital facilities, propagation of publio
health facilities and measures, prevention of epidemios, etc.
Your efforts in these lines is desired for development and
progress of hygiene in Taiwan.
I have outlined my view in general as above, and as
to details of instruotions, advices, eto., you will be
explained by chiefs of competent bureaus. As to questionnaire
I shall appreciate your frank expressions. The future of
Japan has muoh to be done at home and abroad, requiring a
tension and strain. You are requested to exert offorts
toward tiding over the situation with sinoere spirit of
publio service, cooperation and unity, and high and large-
minded morale.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
nclosure No. 3.
OPINIONS OF LOCAL GOVERNORS.
On the following points all governors were unanimous
in their opinions:
Propagation d improvement of primary education are
most iaportant to produce loyal subjects. The nuaber of
educational superintendents ind orficials in chirge of so-
cial education should be inoreased. rivate schools teaching
Chinese classics (known as  hobo )  hould be abolished and
publio schools should be increasea. supervision and improve-
ment of private insti tutions are necessary. ligh school
education should be encouraged, nd increusc and extensions
of high schools are necessary to reduce the difficulty of
enroliment. ore busines. school re necessury as unenploy-
ment is on the increase. e rdim cocial educ tion,
propagation of national ln uace is necessary. ational
fete like anniversary of foundin of the Empire should be
observed by the general publio. Respect of national flag
should be propagated. Young  en's associations, boy scouts,
eto. must be guided. ctivities of comittees charged with
reforms are necessary, and the net work oi the reforming
hould be enlarged.Administrative functions on social
ucation should be nore fully equipped. Cooperation and
ontacts are necessury not only vith oducationists but
ith police officers and various over n organizations.
orshipping of shrines nd aneostors.
The following gives the ist or the governors' ideas
on educational end spiritual mattors particularly with recard
to the Formosan population:
Governor Takeshita of Taichu:
Basic work is necessary. The points are that both
Japanese and Formosans should change their ways of thinking.
Japanese should understand Fomosans better, and act in such
a way that Formosans place confidence in them as elders.
Formosans should change their ideas and endeavor to have
mutual confidence. The spirit of rule by the Japanese
Emperor should be explained, and its distinotion from the
rule of right ("Ohdo?) should be made more olear. ore
photographs of His Majesty should be granted to primary
sohools for Formosans. Greater emphasis is needed on
teaching of ethics and Japanese history.
Governor Utsumi of Shinchiku:
A board shou'd be organized for investigation of
religion, oustoms and life of Formosans. Intermarriage
should be enoouraged. Immigration of Japanese must be
enoouraged.
Governor Hommn of Taito:
Natural environments have bearing on the minds of the
people. Therefore improvement of the environment is necessary.
Cherry trees must be planted. Worshipping of Imperial Shrine
at Ise, Imperial Palace and Imperial mausoleums should be
enoouraged. Sightseeing trips to Japan should be encouraged.
Slogans are necessary for cultivating national spirit.
National songs are desired.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
good tea in the highlands, the tea having a peculiar taste.
Its future is hopeful. Control of rice mills is necessary.
Orgenizations for control of exports (of rice) require
improvement and perfeotion. Regarding tenant faming in
addition to the present cooperation thorc is a necessity
for enaoting a law covernine tenant farming. Ii factory law
is to be enforced in the future ior the benefit of farmers,
laborers, etc., it is desi red to start fra now thorough
investigation of labor.
Governor Imagawa of Tainan:
Vheat raisine is promi in not only in Taichu but in
ny province. In order to porfect u riculture 1  ve exerted
efforts on construotion of not work of industrial hi hways.
Deep ploughing of "Kantenden" (dry lunds) vith tractor
drawn plows makes the dry land  uitable for sugar raising.
A law governing adjustment of fam land is necessary. Special
crops such as coffee, ranie, jute, lacquer, etc., must be
encouraged, and markets must be found for these products.
It is desired to exert efforts on paper hat manufacturing
and cotton raising. is Tainan has a port suitable as a
fishing port reconstruction thoreof by the (Goverm ent General
is wanted.
Governor Nishizawa of Takao:
Early plantine of rice should cneouraced. This is
convenient for export to Japan, and does not cause trouble
on others. Efforts should be ade to 1 prove "Kantenden"
(dry land) and to raise Sisal hemp. As Takao's fishing
port is narrow its perfection is desired. Castor oil plants
must be encouraged. As Takao has too many buffaloes their
use for manufacturing purposes 1s desired. hell button
making must be encouraged. An organization for researches and
investigation of enterprises, especially manufacturing in-
dustry, is necessary. I have included subsides for enterprises
in the 1934 budget. Speedy grantine of licenses on natural
gas and petroleum should be made. Enactment of a law govern-
ing control of important industries is desired.
Govemor Homma of Taito:
Defective means of communications impede instrial
development. Railways and highways require improvement. When
savages in the highlands begin to eat rice it will help
consumption of rioe. Sugar production must be increased.
It 1s des ired to exert efforts on quinine oultivation,
cotton, pyrethrum, coffee, ramie, jute, castor oil plants,
peamuts, placer gold, oattle-raising, etc. The port of
Shinko needs improvement. The Government General is reques ted
to supply Taito with a fishery experiment ship for guiding
fishing. Pinan River and Rika River require repairs.
Govermor Mori of Karenko:
Like Taito Karenko needs improvement in communioations.
This is most important of all questions. Repairs of rivers
and streams are urgently necessary. Bridges and highways
must be perfected. As to irrigation improvement of soil
needs prior attention. Land reolaimed without permission
must be adjusted. An agricultural experiment station is
des ired in Karenko. Enaotment of a law governing
proteotion

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
-3
proteotion of savages in the lowlands is necessary. Speedy
granting of mining licenses is wented. It is desired to
enoourage cultivation of tobacco, castor oil plants, eto.
Governor Uiwa of Hoko (Pescadores).
Hoko is not endowed vith ny n tural resouroes, ner it
is financially well off. ot uch can be expected of agri-
culture. However, fi hin is promising. but as Hoko is
located far from consumine places markets must be taken
into account. Supply of ice and liquid fuel also requires
consideration. Though outside my jurisdiction, it is des ired
to pay attention to South China and the south Seas regarding
market.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
sure No. 4.
Condensed Satments of Local Covernors on
Agricultural/Industrial Matters.
Governor Noguchi of Taihoku:
Tea for anchuria should bo oncoura ed.  his is be-
cause rouchong tea is similar to the kind of tea wanted in
Hanchuria. Tankan variety of sweet oran es is suited to
anchuria. As. anchuria has no vecet les durine winter,
vegetable exports are promisin. There i an association
for exports of fruits, but to further consolidate nd
coordinate exports the Government eneral is requested to
enact a law governing export associations. s jute can be
used as a raw material for paper in iran istriet und
neighborhood, its cultivation is desired to be encouraged
after further researches. o cholera must be combatted,
and enforcement of law coverning s tock-farming associations
is desired. Inspection of hogs transported from one place to
another must be made more strict, and in this respect
assistance of the Govern ent eneral is desireu.
Govemor Utsumi of shinchiku:
Crop rais ing of a sincle variety thus far has been
unprofitable and accompanied by risk. In the future
agriculture must be diversified, that is, nore varieties
must be raised. Tenant farminc systen requires improvement,
and rational tenant farming contracts are necessary. The
evil custom of tenant farming must be abolished. An association
for cultivat ing und carrying out agricultural solf-coverning
ideas must be organized. s production of rice has been
reauced fram 1933 its quality must be i proved. As recards
tea, tea manufaoturers' guild must be organized, and a sound
development of the industry must be planned. Private
afforestation must be encouraged. Business schools require
improvement and prefection. s regards oranges sales oganiza-
tions, organizations for control of sales in markets,  nd
organizations for assisting sales in markets are desired.
cultivation of ramie, jute and cotton should be experimented
with and if suocessful their cultivation should be enoouraged.
Afforestation of trees for lacquer production is desired.
Raising of silk worm egge must be encouraged. Agricultural
manufaoturing, especially canning of sweet oranges, must
be enoouraged. As regards combatting of hog cholera I egree
with other governors. Further efforts are necessary regarding
petroleum, gas and oarbon blaok, as they are important
produots. shinochiku has a suitable port, and the Govermment
General is requested to reconstruct it so as to make it
usable as a fishing port.
Governor Takeshita of Taichu:
I have studied the question of the manufacturing industry,
but I found that there is roum only for adding mamufacture to
agrioultural products. Sugar industry needs reduotion in
produotion oost. Otherwise the same trouble as exists with
rice will arise. Inoreased production of wheat is des ired,
and this is more hopeful than in Japan. Experiments in
raising of grape frilt, lemons, eto. have been successful,
and their cultivation should be enoouraged. Taichu produces
good

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 5.
Governor General Nakagawa Quoted on
Conferenoe:
- In order to make  aiwen a part of Japan
without any difference from other parts or Japan, Jap nese
should be sincere and kind in their contaots with and
guidance of Formosans as brothers,  nd Fomosans should
aoquire as soon as possible individualism as Japanese
subjects. As this is most important, the uestionnaire
included the itam 'How to arouse and propagate national
spirit?'. To employ more Japanese as toachers in public
sohools for Formosans has the purpose of arousing nd
propagating the national spirit. Fomosans should well
understand this idea. Regarding industrial development it
has been decided to cncourage industries with due considera-
tion to avoid collision of pecial tropical industries of
Taiwan with industries in Japan proper. Tropical industries
will be greatly developed in the future. At the same time
more close economio relations with South China and the
South Seas are desired."
Newspaper Coment on Conference.
The conferenee was held throughout in a tonse
atmosphere, but what was disoussed was nothing new or
unusual, being commonplace. Regarding industries a definite
plan has previously been drawn up for reducing 800,000 koku
of rioe through cultivation of substitute crops, and
therefore exaggeration was of no avail as results will be
immediately known next fall. Each governor was careful
and prudent. Though not included in the questionnaire it
was expeoted that some governor might have courage enough
to refer to the question of self government. However,
perhaps from des ire to avoid trouble each governor refrained
from touohing that question. They merely and faithfully
answered the questionnaire, in a routine and stereotyped
manner, it is observed.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.93)
DUPLICATE
ommfice,
Department of State
AMERI CAN CONSULATE,
RECEVED Taihoku, Tai wan, Japn, November 27, 1934.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1935 JAN 2 S150
Publishing of Politieai Nows
Items in Local P'ress
$+
VISION OF
3040
jokyo, Japn.
I have the homr to transmit heredth translations
894A.00/20
from three articles donli vi th 1nternetional affairs
94a.
whioh recently appeared in the smi-ofrioial TAlwn
NICH NICHI, most conservative of local newspapers. It
is understood that these novs itaus crue to Taihoku
direot from London, hanghai, cl London respectively,
and did not originate in 1okyo newspapers. uoh arti-
cles as those enclosod are editorializou by the MIci
NId staff, beforc insertion in that periodical as
news matter.
plaood in the artioles of tho NICiII NIcII by most of the
5
Looal populace, both Japnese and Formosan Chinese, and
that the NIcHI NICiI molds publio opinion to a sub-
stantial degree.
F/FG.
The slightly inoreasing bias against the United
States whieh hes been discernible in the local press
reeently is attributed to one or both of two factors:
1. Impationce at the prolongation of the
Lonéon naval conversations.
2. Indigmatien resulting from s tatemente of a
retared ofrieer of the United States Amy

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
made at Tashington early in Ootober referring
to the aerial vulnerability of Japan.
This incident received extencive und
unfavorable trentmont in the local press.
o veetuly oure,
altor. cconou hy,
rietee consul.
Enclosures:
1. Trumslation or preen 1te deted ovenber 27, 1934.
2. Trans Letion of rees item datec ovember 25, 1934.
. Translation of excerpt fron reen item doted
ove:ber 15, 1934.
File No.800.
WTM/tkh
Orignal to bassy.
1 copy to Dopartment - for Correroiel erfice.
1 copy to Consulnte Cencral.
州

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
Enolosure o. 1 to Report of
Novemter 27, 1934.
OURCE: Taiwan Nichi Nichi,
November 27, 1934.
Thihoku, Taiwan.
UNITD
In the endon maval talks tn niind t en is
trying to win cooperution of Dritain   uinet Jupon, und
desires a joint notion vith Britain ufter abrogation by
Japan of the ashincton treaty. ritnin howevor wishes
to keep friendlyith J an,  i working for suocess
of the conferenee on the hasis o uis polioy. Ino lud-
ing Mr. Chamberlain, influential men of the Conservatives
are in favor of friendship with Japom. part from
restoration of Angle Japanese allia ce there are strong
arguments for friendship wi th Japen. United ta tes is
jealous of this, nd resortin to various taotios to win
favor of Britain.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.95)
Enolomure No. 2 to Report of November 27, 1934.
SOURCE: Taiwan Nichi Niohi,
November 25, 1934.
Taihoku, Taiwan.
TRANSLATION OF EXCERPT.
UNITED ST TS, RUIA
 INA COIL. TO LOL TE
JAPANARI   IT ING
American uabassador ulliit to osoow has visited
Nanking on his way to tho linited tates on leave, and 1s
consulting with r. ang and others on important matters.
In diplomatio ciroles in  lan hai it is interpreted that
the purpose of the Ambassador's visit is to conolude same
seoret agreement between the United  tates, Hussia and
China. Chinese Minister to Russia and Russian Charge'
d'Affaires in China are now also in Nanking. There is a
tendeney toward oloser oontact between China and Russia
and the United States desires to join the two countrie
1n a threo power agreement. This indioates the traditional
poliey of the United States of isolating Japen in the
Pacirio, and the United States is thus preparing to guard
against ohange 1n the s1tuation 1n the Far East attending
abrogation of the Washington troaty by Japan.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No. 3 to Report of November 15, 1934.
SOURCE: Taiwan Niohi Nichi,
November 15, 1934.
Taihoku, Taiwan.
TRUE. LATION OT LXOLRPT.
PUBLIC O: INIO IN GR IT IN DIVIDDO J N D
UNITEDYES- DOL DNIOHO UITND
14
ince Britain's proposed compromise plan accepting
in theory Japen's de and for parity, delioate develop-
ments hhave been seen in the relations among the three
powers. The outlook of the preliminary naval talks
depends to some oxtont on the tenienoy of this develop-
ment. It is  faot that cannot be covered that the
American delegation  the ropresentatives of the
Dominions are showing concern over the closer contact
between Japan nd Britain. General Smut's insistence
on continuanoe of the cooperative polioy between Bri tain
and the United tntes since the Creat ar is a warning
to the British Govermment, nd is representative of the
views of the Dominion Govermen ts.
The views of the Dominions are thot Canada, ustralia
and New Zealand in the ncific  re nore under the pro-
teotion of the meri can navy than the British navy, and
that friendship wi th tho Unitod tates is essential. --

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
2.6mm
L.1N7LOIV
32
2063-327
WAR DEPARTMENT
No. 7836.
June 24, 1935.
ubjeet: Tr vel in Taiwan ( mosa).
344A.00/
ro:
The hief, iliy  Intel igence Division.
1. The refusal of the Japanese ar Office to penmit in-
speetions of units of the Taiwan Army was reported in our No.
772l, dated March 30, 1935. In view of the visit late in 1934
to the Fhilip ine Islends of tro Japanese officers, Lieut. Col.
2
Masachike Hirata, G.S., nd Lieut. Col. Masabumi Yamanchi, Inf.,
instruotor et the Army Staff College, the absence of record in
this office of a visit to Taiwan by the milit ry attache, it
was const iered -orth while to travel in Taiwan  nd gain a en-
eral knowledge of the isl nd  no its peopoe in spite of being
uneble to inspect military units.
Departing from Kobe on arch 6, 1035 on the "Yoshino
Maru", an old Genman built steame of hout ,Ooo tons, eelung
was reached on arch 9, after a pleesent voyage.
2.
Before being allowed to land et  eelung, forcign pass-
engers were sub jected to a searching thouh not unpleasent exam-
1nation b. the port authorities and Military Police to determine
their identity and reason for travelling in Taiwan. The fact
that everyone had come from Japan proper and ad been examined
carefully en route when the ship touched at loji had no apparent
effect on the examinetion by the Keelung inspcctors. Foreigners
were asked to show passports, but the identification cards furm-
ished members of the Embassy staff by the Foreign Office were
accepted as sufficient proof of identity. A special boat train
left for Taihoku as soon es the passengers' baggage had been
transferred from the steamer and arrived there in about 45 min-
utes.
3. The Japan Tourist Bureau and a wumve1 of fozeiguers who
had trevelled recently in Taiwan were consulted before leaving Tokyo
F/FG

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
nd a general itinerary drafted. At the Railway Hotel in Taihoku,
the only European style hotel on the island, additional information
was obtained about travel facilities end e final plen drawn whioh,
however, hd to be changed later because transportation around the
southerm part of the islend proved to be better then expected. The
travel actually performed was as follows:
werch 10- 8:30.
Left Faihou on in line of Government
Keilway to lainan via Tichu
1:21 1.M.
Arrived Nisui
2:22M.
Left Nisui on ov't.  rnch line to
Gwai shatei
3:32 P.M.
Arrived Suiriko an left at once by hired
car for Juisha on Lake Jitsugetsutan.
Stayed at Jepanese inn, Kampeikiro.
Aarch 11 - 8:00 A.M.
Left uisha by hired car
10:00
rrived iori, obt ined emmission from po-
lice to enter mount in district inhabited
by eborigines  nd left at once for Musha.
Three hours by "daisha" (coolie-pushed,
narrow gauge hand car to Baike1 followed by
one hour's walk upsteep ra1) to Musha.
Stopped at Gov't. rest nouse.
March 12 - 9:00.
Left Musha on foot, arri ved Baikei in one
hour then by "daisha" to Hori in one hour
nd a ulf.
12:00 noon
Left lori by hired car for lisui, arrived
2:50 P.M.
3130 PM.
Left  1sui by local train on win line of
Gov't. railway
15
rrived Teiwan. Unable to stop at best
inn, Azuyama, as it was filled by Taiwan
Army cor nder end staff.
March 13 -
ight seeing in and about Taiwan and old
port of Anpin.
March 14 - 7:45 A.M.
Left Tainan on min line of Gov't. reilway
9:07 A.M.
rrived Takao. Sight soing and lunch ns
guest of Governor of Tainan Prefecture.
1131 P.M.
Left Takao with General Terauchi, co mander
of Taiwan my, by rail
2:12 i.d.
Arrived Heito, visited Taiwan Sugar Co.
plant as Gen. Terauchi's guest.
4:00 PM.
Left Heito b hired oar.
6130 P.M.
Arrived Shi jukei, stopped at Gov't.  tspring
1nn
March 15 - 8: 00 A.M.
Left Shijuke1 by hired car of preceding day,
arrived at lighthouse on Cape Gerambi in 2
hours; stopped one half hour and continued
for 3 hours over terrific roads by car via
-2-

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.96)
Koshun to Taibu on the east coast. From
Teibu about four miles along the beach on
foot or by chair to a waiting automobile
at the sout herm end of the road and then
3 hours over more terrifie roads to Gov't.
hot spring rest ho se at Chihon (or Chippon)
south of Taito.
Maroh 16 - 71 0 A. M.
Lort ihon b. hired car
8:10M.
Arrived Taito
8120 A. M.
Left Tnito by narrow gauge Gov't. reilway
4:205..
Arrived Awarenko. Unable to stop et the best
inn, hikuyoken, as it was filled by army of-
ficers att ending maneuvers.
arch 17- 8:00.M.
Left kwarenko b hired car for entrance to
Taroko valley, 50 minutes, n then on foot
for three hours up the valley to Batakan.
Stopped at Gov't. rest house, walked to Dangai
"The Grand Canon of the Far ast"1n 50 min-
utes end returmed in about the same time over
a very stoep trail.
March 18 - 7:00 A. .
Left Batakan on foot, returned to entrance to
Taroko valtey in about two hours nd then by
hired car on the new coest cliff road to suo
in about 3 hours.
1:50.
Left uo on Gov't. rilway
6:01 1.4.
Arrived Taihoku
March 19 -
ight seeing in Prih ku and vicinity
March 20 - 1:30..
Left Taihoku by bont train for Ke lung
seiled for kobe via Moj1 at about 4:00 P..
March 23 - 7:00 A. M.
Arrived oji; sailed about noon
Maroh 24 - 7:00 A. M.
àrrived o tsi e Kobe breakwater but unable to
lnd until bout noon because of high wind.
4. Geography.
The attached pamphlet shows the location, size and general
topography, railw y net and political subdivisions of Taiwan. s in-
dicated by the stream lines and mountein peaks, the principal topo-
graphical characteristic is the prnctically continuous mountain range
extending from north to south, qu to near the east coast and dividing
the 1sland into e broad, fertile, well-watered plain sloping to the
west, and a steep, in some places precipitous, slope toward the Pao-
ifio Ocean on the east. Practically the only arrable lend on the
east coast is in the narrow valleys, paralleling the coast, traversed
by the railroad conneeting Taito and Kwarenko, and in the breader
plain north of suo. The slopes to the eest ere so steep and the
rainfall so hesvy et certain seasons, depending on the part of the
-3-

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
Koshun to Teibu on the east coast. From
Teibu about four miles along the beach on
foot or by chair to a waiting automobile
at the sout hem end of the road and then
3 hours over more terrifie roads to Gov't.
hot spring rest ho se at Chihon (or Chippon)
south of Paito.
Maroh 16 - 7:30 A. M.
Lert t.ihon b. hired car
8:10.
Arrived Taito
8:20 A.M.
Left Lnito by narrow gange Gov't. reilway
4:205
Arrived warenko. Unable to stop et the best
1nn, chikuyoken, as it wes filled by army of-
ficers attending meneuvers.
March 17 - 8:00 A. M.
Left kwarenko b hired car for entrance to
Taroko valley, 50 mimutes, n: then on foot
for three hours up the valley to Batakan.
Stopped at Gov't. rest house, walked to Dangai
"The Grand Canon of the Far est"1n 50 min-
utes and returned in about the same time over
a very steep trail.
March 18 - 7:00 A. .
Left Batakan on foot, returned to entrance to
Taroko valtey in about two houre and then by
hired car on the new coast cliff roed to suo
in about 3 hours.
1:50 P.
Left uo on Gov't. rilway
6:01 P. M.
Arrived Taihoku
March 19 -
-ight seeing in reih u and vicinity
March 20 - 1:30.. .
Left Taihoku by boat train for Ke lung
seiled for kobe via Moji at bout 4:00 P.M.
March 23 - 7:00 A. M.
Arrived oji; sailed about noon
Maroh 24 - 7:00 A. M.
Arrived o tsi e kobe breakwater but unable to
land until bout noon because of high wind.
4. Geography.
The attached pamphlet shows the location, size and general
topography, railw y net and political subdivisions of Taiwan. As in-
dieated by the stream lines ani mountain peaks, the principal topo-
graphical characteristio is the practically continuous mountein range
extending from north to south, u te near the east coast and dlviding
the 1sland 1nto a broad, fertile, well-watered plain sloping to the
west, and a steep, in some places precipitous, slope toward the Pao-
ifie Ocean on the east. Practically the only arrable lend on the
east coast is in the narrow valleys, paralleling the coast, traversed
by the railroad conneeting Taito and Kwarenko, and in the bmeader
plain north of suo. The slopes to the east ere so steep and the
rainfall so hesvy at certain seasons, depend1ng on the part of the
-3-

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
island, that the streams in flood are uncontrollable and do great
damage. Efforts are being made by means of dams and earthwork
and stone embankments to hold streams wi thin bounds and permit the
reelaiming of otherwise good femm land now periodically ravaged by
the boulder rilled torrents.
5。
Foade.
Jouth of kwarenko on the east coast, praotically nothi g
has been done toward bridgin: streams near their mouths so that
while road traffic is possible over rough, rocky stream beds during
the dry season, movement is impossirle vhen the streams are full.
From Kwarenko northward, the roed to Suo nd beyond is passable at
any season since it is cut out of the fnce of a cliff for about
30 miles north of the entrance to Taroko Volley nd well provided
with strong bridges the remeinder of the way. Hard surfaced, two-
way motor roads wi th strong conorete bridges for the most part
parallel the railroeds along the west coast nd extend eestward
into the mountains as far as agriculturel development hes pene-
trated. The surface of these roads is not smooth enough to make
motor travel a pleasure, but they are undoubtedly serviceable at
all times and are being improved constantly. From Heito to Koshun,
near the southern tip of Taiwan, the roed is co parable to those
fust described but south of Koshun to Gurambi Cape and northeast
from Koshun to the east coest and thence along that coast to
Taibu ("Taibo" on the mao), the road is one-way, unimproved, dif-
ficult in dry weather and impassible for motor vehicles in wet
weather due to the steep grades, sharp turns and slippery clay
so1l. Trails in the mountains are numerous nd well cared for,
providing good communicatinn with the most remote districts for
travellers on foot and pack animals which seem, hovever, to be
used but little.
6. Vehicles.
Motor vehicles are in cormon use in the towns and oities
and for long hauls in the coun'ry. Almost all automobiles seen
were Fords or Chevrolets. Bus. lines operate where ever there 1s
a suggestion of a road. water buffaloes and to a much lesser ex-
tent, zebus are the draft enimals of the farmers. Zebus are being
bred near Koshun by the government in an effort to introduee a
more generally useful animal than the water buffelo.
7. Railways.
Rail transportation is provided by government and
private railways, and an umusuel type of rall transportation
called "daisha" or pushoar trem. As shown on the map in the at-
tached pamphlet, rail communication throughout the western plain

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
consists of an elaborate network of Government and private roads
supplemented by "deishe" lines extending from points along the railways
toward the coast and up the valleys into the high, central mountain
range close to and parelleling the east coast. East of the mountains.
along the coast, where there is comparatively little land under culti-
vation end the population is sparce, rail communication is limited to
a narrow gauge Government line fron Taito to Kwarenko end an extension
southward to Suo of the mein Government syetem which serves the west
coast. all Governmnt lines were trvelled on with the excention of
the western shore line from Chikunan to Ciwaki which is not traversed
by the principal trains. ith the exce tion of the faito-hwarenko line
which is about 2 foot gauge and equipped with diminutive steam loco-
motive end cars, the Government railways, inc uding ll equipment, are
exactly the same as those in Japan proper. chedules are not fast but
the service is otherwise exeellent. rivate lies vere not seen, but
from deseriptions, it is believed thut they are similar to the ovexn-
ment railway from laito to Kwarenko.
The push car tramways have a gauge of about two feet, very
light rails and coolies, water buffaloes or oxen as motive power. An
adaptation and extension of the usual light rilweys used in sugar
fields, the push car tramweys transport passengers nd freight and,
while naturally slow and leisurely on the level nd up-grades, have
plenty of speed when cars coast down steep, winding grades. he descent
fron Baikei to Hori is thiilling as one's car tears long the uneven
track with a vertical drop on one si de of ten feet or more to a rushing
mountain stream below; crosses valleys nd small gorges on crude, flimey
bridges, and whirls around sharp, blind curves hile a coolie standing
on the back of the car blows & tiny tin whistle supposed to clear the
way of other cars, people  o use the right of way es a trail, nd even
stray water buffaloes and pige enting long the tracks.
8.Harborm.
Keelung and Takao are on smell harbors said to be capable of
handling vessels of 10,000 tons or less. At both places, modern ware-
houses along a quai heve railwey facilities, but Keelung has the more
elaborate installation with spece to berth three 10,000 ton ships at a
time. The old harbors at Tansui, near Takhoku, end Anpin, near Tainan,
can be used only by very small vessels because of lack of water due to
accumulated silt. Harbors on the east coast are open roadsteeds used
by smell boats in good weather.
9.Population.
Taiwan's population is composed of aborigines of Malay origin,
Chinese and Japanese. Europeans and Americans are to be found in a few
of the larger cities, but their number is very amall and their influence
of no importanee. Aborigines are divided among a number of tribes soat-
-5-

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
tered through the mount in districts, reputed to be quiet and harmless
now, but care is taken by the police to control the number of outsiders
entering their areas and o provide visitors with escorts to protect
them against possible danger. From limited observation, it appeared
that tribes vary greatly in ppearance, anners, and wustoms. Members
of the mountain tribes in the vicinity f Mushe. scene five years ago
of & messeere of Japanese of 11 ages, nre sm ll, filthy dirty, serious.
stupid and indolent, hile those seen long  eas! coast were larger,
stronger, very cleen, happy nd industrious.
The east coest aborigines farm
ork as unskilled lsborers
on roads and reilroads ut the mountain people round ushe limit them-
selves to the minimm amo nt of work on the trails necessary to entitle
them to a bere living from the government. The Japanese agent in charge
of the Musha listrict admitted thet the massacre the re five yeare ago
was the feult of the Japanese police frosh from Japrn ho did not under
stand the natives and tried to civilize them too fast. Appropriation
of native women By the police is iven by roreign residents as the cause
of the outbreak.
Lost of the farm owners an? laborers, common Laborers and
small shop keepers are Chinese. Japenese operete railways, factories,
power plents, department stores, benks and otner large undertakings, and
f rnieh personnel ror prectically all covernment positions. The three
elements of the populetion do not compete seriously witn eacnother and
appear to live side by si e narmoniously.
10. Taiwan Army.
General Juichi Tereuchi, co mender of the Taiwan Army, con-
firmed previous information thet the Teiwan rmy consists of two in-
fantry regiments, one pack artillery battalion, coast defense artillery
at Keelung. Takao and Boko Island (off the west coast), end one regi-
ment of aviation, and said thet the organization and equipment of units
are the same as for similar units in Japen proper.
The four hangars of the Sth. Air Regiment near Heito, seen
from the train, were typical of  tnree-squadron regiment. Also seen
from a tmain was part of a barreck aren of the Kee lung coast artillery
including one gun, about 5", on a pedestal mount under a shed obviously
used only for drill purposes. hile entering and leaving the harbor of
Keelung. end viewing the herbor of Takao from a hearby hill, no indice-
tion was seen of coast defense inetallations of any kind although both
pleces are listed and treated as "fortified areas". The probable light
protestion of these two small harbors could be concealed easily on con-
veniently located, heavily wooded hills.
11. Counter Espionage.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
Constant surveillance while ashore by military and other
plice, some of hom introduced themselves, while others morely observed
furtively. was the only disagreeable feeture of travel in Taiwan. Jap-
enese say that such attention is not reserved for foreigners, but is
given also to visiting Japanese who am viewed also wit h great suspic-
ion.
12. Goneral Impressions.
To the tourist, Taiwan gives the impression of bei g a beauti-
ful, prosperous. well  dministered isl nd. Japanese overnment, seni-
tation, schools, railways and roads h ve been su erimposed on a Chinese
background sufficiently o ive at least an outward appeur anee of clean-
liness and order, to proviie education for al:, d furaish ood trans
portation  ai oth r  dern utilities without destroyi & the essentially
hinese character of too people nt atephere of e place.
illiam C. Crane.
Major, General teff.
2 Encls.
ulitary Attache.
"To Taiwan by O.S.. Line"
Photographs (original only).
-7-

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, Oetober £3, 1936.
FAIRS
MISC
Erle R. Dickover, Esquire,
Charge d' ffaires ad interin,
American Embassy,
Tokyo.
Sir:
I have the hmor to enclose herewith a
translation of an article appearing in the Taiwan
Nichi Niohi Shimpo of october 19, 193e, reporting
894A.00/22
police suppression of an alleged plot on the part
of certain Formosan Chinese to foment a revolt in
Taiwan.
This case was supposed to have been
unearthed in September, 1934, but due to the
strict enforcement of a press ban no infomation
2
was procurable until the officlal release on
October 18 last.
Another translation of a roport fron the
October 22, 1936, 1ssue of the same newspuper 1s
likewise enclosed.
This later news artiole reports
the sentenoes passed on sertain of the defendants
in the Tainan Local Court.
while these sentences
are comparatively light, 1it will be noted that
none of the persons tried in the Tainan Local
Court were among the alleged ringleaders of the
movement.
. The latter, with the exception of
Bo
F/FG

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Bo So So who reportedly "died" shortly after his
arrest by the police, are slated to be tried before
the Taichu Local Court.
Respectfully yours,
IKA
Adward . Maney,
American Consul.
Encl osures:
1. Translation of press article
dated October 19, 1936;
2. Translation of press article
dated 0ctober 22, 1936.
ESM/tkh
File No. 800
Original to Embassy, Tokyo;
2 copies to Department;
1 copy to Consul General, Tokyo.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
REVOLUTION BY USE OF FORCE AND RETU RN TO CHINA PLOTTED
IN TAIWAN - TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE CRITICAL SITUATION.
WHOLE PICTURE OF THE SECRET SOCIETY "SHUYU KAT* (MASS
FRIENDS SOCIETY) INCIDENT.
In September, 1934 a plot to return Taiwan to
China by use of force under assistance of China was
unearthed in Taiko-gun, Tai chu-ahu and Takao before
execution of the plot. The leader of the plot was
one Sai Shuku Kai of Kiyomizu-gai, Taiko-gun, Tai ehu-shu,
who was graduated from the Peking University, was a
member of the Chinese Nationalists, and Governor of
Tukuka Prefeeture, China. The plot was spread and
insti gated by the secret sociaty called "Shuyu Kai"
whose leader was Sai Shuku Kai. This society was
disguised as a religi ous society. Conorete prepa-
rations were going on for obtaining funds for revo-
lution, seeret manufacture of rirles and bullets, eto.
This was a very serious case, and press ban was
enforeed. Arrests were made most confidentially,
and after two years and a month the case was released
to the press by the Procurators' Office on the l8th
at 10:00 P.M. The press release was as follows,
which alarifies the whole picture of the inaident.
Several hundred fellow members acquired under guise of
religious organization.
One Bo So So (alias So Cho So) who was a fortune
toller in the compound of the Shiunji Temple in the
Kannon Byo (Kannon Temple) in K1yomizu, Taiko-gun,
Taichu-shu (who died on October 14, 1934) had
enthusiasm in racial awakening and was opposed to
the administration of the Governor Ganeral of Taiwan.
He plotted distarbamee in Taiwan under assistance of
Chima, overthrow of the Taiwan Government General by
use of farce, exolusion of Japanese rule from Taiwm,
and restoration of Taiwan to Chinese administration.
Since 1925 or 1926 he had been seeking co-workers.
In November, 1927, he became acquainted with defendants,
Chin Hatsu Rin and Chin So Kai, Chinese citizens, who
stayed in the said temple and were engaged in soulpture
of buddhe images. They had common interest in the
plot, and in the middle of December of that year they
orgamized the secret soclety "Shuyu Kai". They
organized in various villages of Taiwan religious
organizations called "Fubo Kai" (Parents Society).
They plammed to gradually convert members of this
soelety inte co-workers. From March or April of
l92s, Bo So So caused the following named defemdants
establishmemt of the Parents Society in the fellowing
plaoes:
Defemdants Oh Bun and Oh Sui To established Tanshi
"Jifabe Kai" in Tanshikan, Sharoku-sho, Taike-gam
Defendamts So Gi, ete. established "Chkurin Pabokai"
in Chikmrin, Sharoku-sho, Taiko-gum
Defeadamts

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
-8一
Defendants So Tel and Chin Tai Ro established Rokuryo
and Sharoku Fubo Kai Rokuryo in Sharoku-sho, Taiko-gun,
and in Sharoku, Sharoku-aho, Taiko-gun.
Bo So together with defendants, so Shi Kai.
Kyo No Oh, ete. established Kiyomizu Fubokai in
Kiyomizu, Xiyomizu-gai, Taiko-gun. Each scciety
acquired as co-workers over ten to over 20 members.
Defendants Chin Xin Ka, Ko Katsu, di Den, ete.
residing in Takao were each caused to acquire several
tens of members in Takao. At the end of 1929, the
number of co-workers totalled over 300.
Acci dentally defendent Sai shuku Kai, wno is a
native of Kiyomizu, Kiyomizu-gai, graduated fron the
Economie Department of the Peiping University, and
who has the caresr of a member of the Chinese
Nationalists and the Govemor of Tolu Ka Prefooture
(Tek Kwa Prefecture) returned to Taiwan in the latter
part of Novembor, 1929 and met Bo So So and found the
plot of the above mentioned "Shuyu Kai". Sai Shuku
Ka1 was enthusiastic in racial awakening, and rogarding
the suffering of the life of five million population
of Taiwan fram exploitetion and oppression under the
administration of the Japaneze Empire intolerable,
he oherished restoration of Taiwan to China, fatherland,
by araed revolution under assistance of China. Sai
Shuku Ka1 and Bo So So found a congenial fri ends in
each other. Subsequently, Sai shuku Kai acted az
the leader of the Shuku Kui, and directed Bo so So
and other influential co-workers regarding the method
of instigating ravial awakening, method of acquiring
co-workers, necessity of carrying cut disturbanee,
and opportunity and method of such disturbance. on
the other hand he informed important men of China of
the above plot, and requested assistance in funde,
ams, ete. when opportunity arrives. He regarded
the so-called ori tical situation of 1935 and 1936 as
the best chance for carrying out disturbance, and
coneemtrated efforts in acquisition of co-workers
and revolutionary fund. He obtained promise from
some co-worker for a large fund, and already received
several hundred yen. Eapecially Bo So So, together
with defendants Kyo No Oh, Ri Bai, Bo Ko Sel, ete.,
imfluential o-workers, was busily engaged in
preparations for plams for seeret mamufacture of
rirles and bullets and other preparations for carrying
out of disturbance, as well as conerete works sueh as
organizatioms, ete. at the time of carrying out of the
disturbanee. During these preparations the case
was uaearthed.
Over 400 pemeas were arrested. 25 were declded smilty.
The Precuraters' Orfice and police authorities
hed arrested several times simee September, l954,
ass mspeets in the case, and subsequently mmée
theroughgeing

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
-3-
thoroughgoing searches in Taichu and Takao. 3l6 of
the suspects were found to be rather unthinking and
merely joined the case through acoidental mistake
wi thout any background of thoughts.
As they
regretted their wrong their proseoution was suspended.
The following named 25 persons who were active as
influential co-workers were under preliminary trials
at Taichu and Tainan Looal Courts.
Each of the 25
was decided guilty at the preliminary triels.
Hereby
the whole picture of the incident has been clarified
fortunately before the execution of the plot.
List of defendants at Taichu Locel Court (decided
on Oct 10)
Names.
A60.
Uccupation.
Extent of education.
Chin Hatsa Shin 31
Soulptor
Illiterate
Chin So Kai
51
19
99
Sai Shuku Kai
32
None
nigh
Kyo No Oh
30
Day laborer
Elementary
Ri Bai
37
Iron-worker
Illiterate
So Shi Kai
33
Silver-smith
79
So Gi
40
Farmer
Oh Boku
46
Day laborer
9
Go Shin
46
Joiner
Ka Go
48
Day laborer
Oh Bun
44
77
So Tei
43
Carpenter
Chin Tai Ho
40
Contractor
Elementary
Rin Bun Wa
38
Joiner
Illiterate
Kyo Sa1 Mo
40
Fortune teller
Elementary
List of defendants at Tainan Local Court (Decided on
June 30, 1936, and now under publio trials).
Names.
Age
Ocoupation.
Extent of education.
Ri Den
38
Coolie
Illiterate
Ko Katsu
57
Pedaler of food
and drink
9
Oh Nan Sho
38
Drug merohant
65
so Bai
47
Farmer
18
Ri Ko Jun
30
Cho Shin Jo
43
"Doshi" (a sort
of priest)
Chin Kin Ka
51
Vegotable peddler
7
Sai Gyoku Wa
46
Drug Merehant
n
Ryo Tei Bun
44
Employee in the
Railway Bureau
n
Kaku Zui
40
Farmer
ee
Antecedemte of the leaders.
Sai Shuku Kai, No. l64, Kiyomizu, Kiyomizu-gai, Taike-
, Taichu-shu. Age 32.
Entered

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Entered Tai chu High School in 19l9; left the
school in 1922 and went to China; studied in high
school and Preparatory Department in the Peiping
University; failed to pass physioal examination in
attempt to enter Koho Military and Political College
in November, 1925 (hed interest in Chinese revo-
lution under Three People Prineiples); returned to
Peiping University and graduated therefrom (Econo-
mies Department) in July, 1927; joined Chinese
Nationalists while in Peiping University; after
graduation became one of the leaders of the Organizing
Committee of the Nationalists in Fukien; teacher in
e commeroial school in Fukien; Governor of Tek Kwa
Prefeeture, Fukien, in December, 1928; resigned in
October, 1929 due to illness and returned to Taiwan.
The motive for his plot of the revolution was
that while studying the Peiping Univereity he entered
the Nationalist, and responded to one of the platform
of the Nationalists "To plan independence of own
country, and et the same time to help weak and small
races and to plan their independence and emancipation".
He them intended execution of revolution of the race
of Taiwan. In Cotober, 1929 he resigned the
Governorship of Tek Kve Frefecture, and returned to
Taiwan in November. He met So So with whom he was
aoquainted from childhood. When their conversations
ineidentally touched the question of Taiwan revolution
they found oongenial friend in each other. They
swore and promised that they would work for promotion
of campaigm for revolution of Taiwan. Following the
example of the late Sun Yat Sen who utilized the
1mfluemee of "Ka Ro Kai" in revolutionary movements
of Chimm, he decided to enlarge the "Shuyu Kai"
planned by So So as an actual influence in the
revolutionary movement. In order to attain his
objeet on the basis of this society he became the
leader of the "Shuyu Kai".
So So, No. 2 of No. 892, Saisei, Kiyomizu, Kiyomim-
gai, Taiko-gun, Taichu-shu. Age 38.
After graduating from public sobcol in his
native place he was engaged in fortune teller business
at the compound of the Shiumji Temple at Kanmon Byo
in Kiyemism-gai; had strong racial ocnsciousness
and was opposed to the Taiwan Government General;
from about 1925 or 1926 stimulated by springing up
of sosiel movements in Taiwam planned independence
and resteratiom of Taiwan to China; and he in
ceoperatiom with Sai Shuku Kai exerted efrorts in
enlargement of organizations.
Chin Hatsma Shim,
Home address: Daimankyo, Suikangai, Binkoken,
PuMen Provinee.
T1o

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
-5-
The then place of residence: No. 336 Saisei,
Kiyomizm, Kiyo, 1zu-ga1, Taiko-gun, Taichu-shu.
Age 31.
Was born in a middle class family in Binkoken,
Fukien Province; studied during childhood Chinese
classics in private sohool in native place; when
grown up studied art of seulpture of buddha images
under father Chin Shun Sei; in December, 1922 at the
age of 17 came to Taiwan with his father; subsequently
resided in various places in Taiwan engaged in
soulpture of buddha images; while engaged in soulpture
of buddha images for the Shinj1 Temple in November,
1987 beeame acquainted with So So; had deep interest
in racial antagonism entertained by So So; explained
to So So circumstances of Chinese revolution, achieve-
ments of Sun Yat Sen, and national conditions after
the revolution; instigated revolutionary ideas of
So So; in the midäle of December, 1927 in cooperation
wi th So So and Chin So Kal organized a secret society
"Shuyu Kai"; subsequently keeping in close union
with So So explained to a large number of Formosans
and Chinese the purpose and spirits of the Shuyu Kai;
acquired several tens of co-workers; and cooperated
in development of revolution.
Ko Katu.
Home address: No. 258, Sai-en, Mako-gai, Hoko-cho.
Place of residence: No. 29 Tamachi 2 Chome, Takao.
Age 56.
Ko Katsu was born as a second son of Yo Go Rin,
an oil merchent in Mako-gai; assisted father's business
until he was about 28 years old at his home; during
that time for 7 or 8 years studied Chinese clussios
at private sehool; subsequently studied boxing for
several years; then removed to Shinka-gai, Tainan-shu;
ongaged in trade with the Peccadores in misoellaneous
goods; failed in the business and returned to native
place; when about 34 years old ain ccme to the
main land and resided in various places; was in
business in the line of misoej.laneous foods and taught
boxing; seeretly praotised medicine without a license;
at that time entertained an ill-feeling against the
administration or the Governor General of Taiwan
regarding control by the police; about 1929 proceeded
on business to Kiyomizu-gai where he met So So; was
advised and indaeed by Bo So to join the Shuyu Kai,
So Se explaining that the Shuyu Kai was the organi-
zatiom plamming revolution of Taiwan by foree;
immediately joined the Shuyu Kai and consulted with
prineipel ce-workers in Kiyomizu-gai regarding
activities im Takae; and exerted efforts in emlarge-
memt of organization and colleetion of war fund.
1o

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-
The ocoupation of 425 persons arrested was
as follows:
Farmers
31%
Coolies and day laborers
21.8%
Men engaged in manufacturing
industries ...
15.5%
Peddlers
8.7%
Comme ree ......
8.6%
Brokerage
5.2%
Fortune tellers
3.8%
Employees in publie offices
1.9%
without ocoupation
1.9%
Minor employees
1.6%
Fishing
1%
Liberal profession
1.2%
Educational career.
Illiterates
221 persoñ
Acquisition of learning in
Chinese classies
108
Left publie schools without
finishing them
47
Graduated from public schools
45
Lert high sehools wi thout
finishing them
4
*
Graduated from high sohools
4
Left colleagos wi thout
finishing them
1
Graduated from colleages
1
Wealth.
Without property
198 persons
Not more than Yen 1,000
106
Between Yen 1,000 and Yen 2,000
33
Between Yen 2,000 and Yen 5,000
37
n
Between Yen 5,000 and Yen 10,000
19
Over Yon 10,000
32
AGOs.
Less them 20 years old
3 persons
Between 20 and under 24
18
3
Betweem 25 and under 50
73
n
Between 31 and under 35
89
Betweem 56 and under 40
86
Betweem 41 and under 45
65
Between 46 and under 50
49
Between 51 and under 55
22
n
Between 56 amd under 60
15
5
(Taiwam Wiehi Nichi Shimpo October 19, 1936)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
Translation.
TEN PERSONS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE "SHUYU KAT" WERE
GIVEN JUDGMENT ON THE ZIST AT THE TAINAN LOCAL COURT.
Ten persons of the members of the "Shuyu Kai"
who were charged with plot for armed revolution and
restoration of Taiwan to Chine were tried at the
Tainan Local Court. This incident has shocked the
whole country. On the 2lst from 9:00 ... the
following judgment was delivered at the Tainan Local
Court by Presiding Judge Hatano in the presenoe of
Judges Kabashima and Nishio, Procurator Matsuo, and
Clerk Kanamaru. Defendants Oh Nan and Cho Shin Jo
have waived right to appeal.
Ri Den, (age 39),
Penal servitude
Legal domicile: No. 256 Sai n, Mako-gai
for:
Prosent address: No. 965 Sankaiseki, Takao
3 years
Ko Katsu (age 57),
Legal domicile: No. 258 Sai n, Mako-gai
Present address: No. 29 Tamachi 2 Chome, Takao 4 years
Oh Nan Sho (age 37),
Legal domieile: No. 21 Eiraku-cho 3 Chome, Tainan
Present address: No. 536 Kyukyokudo,
Daiju-sho, Hozan-gun, Takao
2 years
(Execution of sentence
suspended for 4 years)
So Sa1 (age 46),
Legal domioile: No. 559 Kariko, Kari-gai, Tainan-shu
Presemt address: Choshu-gai, Choshu-gun, Takao-shu 2 years
R1 Ko Jun (age 38),
Legal domicile: No. 17 Koshoshi, Bantan-sho,
Toko-gun, Takao-shu
3 years
Cho Shin Jo (age 42),
Legal domieile: No. 527 Keishu, Rimpen-sho,
Toke-gan, Takao-shu
Present address: No. 1246 Kancho, Shin-en-sho,
Toko-gun
3 years
Chin Kin Ka (age 50),
Legal domiaile: No. 34 Koshinai, Nankaku-sho,
Shoka-gun, Tai chu-shu
Presemt address: No. 418 Shoheioho, Dai ju-sbo,
Hesam-gan, Takao-shu
3 years
Sa1 Qyeku Wa (age 45).
Legal domicile: Deiryo-sho, Hosan-gun
Presemt address: No. 228 Musairyo, Daiju-she,
Bosm-gan
2 years
Rye

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Penal servitude
Ryo Tei Bun (age 43),
for:
Legal domicile: No. 220 Kyoshito, Nanshin-sho,
Okayama-gun, Takao-shu
2 years
Kaku Zui (age 39),
Legal domieile: No. 4ll Denyoshi, Shin-en-sho,
Toko-gun, Takao-shu
Present address: No. 600 Gakko-ryo, Anjun-sho,
Shintoyo-gun, Tainan-shu
2 years
Of the number of days in jail 200 days will be
included in the period of servitude under the main
sentence in the case of Ri Den and Ko Katsu; and in
the case of Oh Nan Sho and 7 others 120 days will be
included in sueh period of servitude.
(Taiwan
Nich1 Nich1 Shimpo October 22, 1936)

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Manila, Philippine Islands, February 5, 1937.
00
894a.
5
S)
2
SUBJECT:
T1
156
JEPARIMENTI OF STATE
THE HONORABLE
94A.00/23
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
A
SIR:
I have the honor to forurd a copy of the
Commonwealth Advocate containin on puge 12 an
article entitled "Fornosa as Base of Jupunese
Expansion," by Mr. Chen Han-seng which the editor
considers of interest because of the proximity of
Formosa to the Philippines.
Some of the points in the article are sunma-
rized below.
Formosa is being used as a base for
Japanese expansion. One of the objectives
A13 1937
FILL
of a ten-year development plan for Formosa
was stated to be "the policy of aiding
Japanese interests in South China and the
South Seas. Modern roads, double tracking
of railroads, airdromes, and a new harbor
at the southern tip indicate emphasis on
military aspects.  Formosans are being sent
to China, supported and protected by the
government of Japan. In moy 15,500 Chinese
residents who have resided in Formosa enjoy
extraterritorial privileges. This has hin-
dered Chinese police in law enforoement.
Vice and usury have increased.
A colonization
F/G

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
A colonization association capitalized
at 50,000,000 Yen has been formed in Formosa
which wouid establish new fishin and agri-
cultural enterprises and settle 100,000
emigrants from Janan and Fonmosa in Fukien
and Kwantung. This company would cooperate
with the Kochu Kongssu which fosters expan-
sion in the nortl.
The Japanese leve obtained tructs of
land in unoj unt ringtan ard ugents have
ussisted in meving bankrupt fishereen and
peasants to Formosu. Forceuns vho will
enjoy extraterritoriul rights are encouraged
to go to Nan-ao island.
The Jananese are showing interest in
iron ore at the nchi mines in Fukien. The
Sumitomo financial house hes decided to
invest about 15,000,000 Yen in mining enter-
prises in Kwangsi. A Formosan has been
appointed to negotiate for a Sino-Japanese
firm to open iron, tin, and magnesium mines.
 branch office of the Kwangsi mining enter-
prise will be opened in Fornosa where the
ores may be smelted.
There is extensive smuggling into Swatow
of sugar, kerosene, cement, matches, and
marine products both b individuals and com-
panies operating on a large scale. Formosans
play a part in this. Salt and rice are smug-
gled out.
Impoverished fishermen of Nan-ao, a
possible naval base at the mouth of the Han
River, take Japanese or Formosan "sons-in-law"
who pay monthly subsidies.
Respectfully yours,
Henry B. Day
American Vice Consul
To the Department in quintuplicate.
HBD/Sob.
File No. 800.
Enolosure:Copy of The Commonwealth Advocate
for January, 1937.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
Desp.#-
894a.20/12
694A.00/
FOR
SEE
Aug.27,1937
Taihoku
Rowe
DATED
FROM
NAME
1-1127
79111
2
4
REGARDiNG: General conditions in Taiwan:Recent developments
reflecting the conflict in China:Reports
regarding -.
fpg

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
DUPLICATE
FE
AIR MAILA
Departmont of State
DOR
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, April 28, 1938.
DT
01
1938 MAY 25 AM 10 53
DEPARTMENT
The Honorable
RECORDS
RECEIVED
Joseph C. Grew,
Ame rican Ambassador,
OF STATE
S
Tokyo, Japan.
8947
sir:
I have the honor to report the following
political developments in Taiwan since the last
report submitted on the 9th of this month.
MOst
894A.00/25
of these are oonnected wi th the China Incident.
Imspection trip of prince Kignahi Kuni
Prinoe Higashi Kuni, Commander in Chief of the
Imperial Air Foroes having completed his ten day
inspectiom trip in Taiwan, took off from Matsuyama
Airport, Taihoku on April ll for Japan Proper.
Two days after he had departed notice of his visit
appeared for the first time in the press, and
mumerous arti cles appeared for days thereafter with
FILED
accompanying photographs of the Prince arriving at
the Governor General's residence, visiting the
military hospital in Taihoku, proceeding through
the streets, ete.
1F
visit of part of leet
A
On April l4th at 10 A.M. sroup formatioms
tetaling about 40 seeplames, together with groups
of lamepleme figatess reared over Taihoks emseumeins
the arzival in Keelune of about ferty skipe of the
Imperial Japamese Navy. From thst tim watil the
SBees's

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
fleet's departure on t he 20th the town was overrun
with gobs, all of whom had to visit the Taiwan
Shrine, X passing this offi ce on their way, usually
in units of 57.
The public was peraitted to visit
the vessels if tickets had previously been obt ined.
The consular body was not invited to participate
in the Inspection.
Two Bri ti ch seamen caught
tryias to photo graph the utst were fined und
readily paid Yen 300 and Yen 200 respectively for
their efforts, the stiffest fine of this sort thus
far imposed here.
Conference of Local Governors
From pril 2lst for three days the governors
of the seven provinces of Triwan et in conference
in Taihoku, the group, including Covemmor Utsuni
of Takao  rovince who was badly burned in the
motorboat accident of pril 12 when inspecting the
heavy industry zone at Soga, Takao harbor.
This
is the second gubernatorial conference since Governor
General Kobayeshi's assumption of office on September
2, 1936, and was attended by the Govermor General,
Director General Morioka, all eight (including
Pesoadores) local governors, all seven bureeu
chiefs, and other interested officials.
The main
purpose of the conference wae to consider measures
to oope with the ourrent situation on the basis
of the special posi tior and requiremente of Taiwan.
The conferdnoe was ofricially asked: "what are the
urgent item requiring future attention and reform
in lisht of the results of various measures thus
far

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
far carried out in coping with the present incident
and the development of the current situation".
In explanation of this question the following
officinl elaboration was made:
"Ever since the
outbrenk of the China Incident notices and
instructions have been icsued from time to time
on matters requiring immediate attention, and you
local governors have been cnlled to conference this
second time that nothing may be left undone in coping
with the ourrent situntion.
s is evident from
the statement of the Imperinl Government on January
16, 1938, the China Incident has now entered into
a second stage.
More time is necessury to attain
the desired ends, and we must be prepared for future
difriculties.
The responsi bility of Japan for the
peace of the Ori ent has be come heavier, and the
position and mission of Taiwan, as the southem
line of defense of Japan, has grown increasingly
important.
Therefore, your opinions are requested
concerning the items urgently in need of attention
and reform in the administration considered in light
of their present state and result of the various
moasures carried out in ooping with the current
incident and of the development of the current
situation". A list of instruotions given to the
Governore is enalosed as being of interest since
it oovers matters considered by government leaders
to be of importanoe to Taiwan at the present timm.
NO

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
No Patriotic Bonds Yet sold in Pesoadores
On april 20th an arti cle appeared in the Taiwan
Nichi Ni chi Newspaper with front page hendlines
"FORMOSAN.
TIOHFISTD, TUH PHY HL HAVE
PLANTY CF CN Y, NL H BUU TPIOTIC
BUNDS".
The short article following with e uko
dateline stnted thet although  atriotio Bonds are
selling elsewhere like hotoakes, being bought by
those supporting the men et the front, one finds
in looking over the record tht not a Formosan in
the escadores has yet bought a bond.
Since it is
understood that the Formosans there are fhirly
prosperous the reason why is wondered at. "Can it
be", asks a certain quarter (the rmy) making a
wry face, "that the officials and others have been
so absorbed in the assimilation movement that
they
have forgotten a bout selling bonds?"
Departure of the Farm Volunteer Corps
Un April 25, after a last word of advice from
the Governor General including "be healthy", "be
faithrul" and "don't harm the fair name of the Corps".
the 1000 youths (average age of 22), composing the
Farn Volunteer Corps recently formed of young farmers
from Taihoku, Shinchiku, Taichu, Tainan and Takao
Provinces, sailed from Keclung on an undisclosed
date (April 25) on an undisclosed ship(either the
Osaka Shosen Kaisha's Chosa Maru or a naval vessel).
The group arrived in Shanghai on the 27th at Il A.M.,
disembarked at 4 P.M. and arri ved at their undisolosed
destination (in the environs of Shanghai) at 7 P.M.
"planning

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
"planning to start cultivation immediately with
the agrioultural equipment and vegetable and onion
seeds brought with them", in the words of group
commander Kumasawa.
Emperor's Birthday Celebration
Because of the prevailing cituation, the usual
garden party held by the Governor Generul of Taiwen
on the occasi on of the mperor's Birthday on pril
29 wi1l not be held this yenr.
However the
Govermor General wil! be at home to receive the
felicitations of the consular corps and high
government officials during the moming of the
29th.
hespectrully yours,
Gerald armer
American Consul.
Encl osure :
Newspaper translation.
File No. 820.02
GW/tkh
3 oopies to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
AGENDA PREPARED BY INTERESTED BUREAUE FOR TAIWAN
GOVERNORS CONFERENCE. TAIHOKU APP11 21-23, 1938
Instructions:
1. Regarding mobilization of supplies and materials.
2. Expansion of productive power. By Investigation
Division.
3. Education and drill of local officials.
4. Culture of public spirit and training in autonomy.
5. 1938 Budget of local overnments.
6. Air defense drills.
7. Air defense equipment.
8. Strengthening of air defense administrative
organizations in local govemments.
9. Call to colors, and commandeering of supplies.
10. Promotion of city planning.
ll. Investigation of government owned land. By Bureau
of Interior.
12. Thoroughness in oampaign for national spiritual
mobilization.
13. Military support.
14. Application of law governing protection of
ocaupation of soldiers called to colors.
15. Activities of faculties and teachers of scho∞ls;
and assimilation of students and pupils into
Japnese subjects.
16. Promotion of physical culture.
17. Expansi on and strengthening of youth organizntions,
and their servide and drills. By Bureau of
Edu cati on.
18. Emergenoy tax increase and lessoning of tax burdens.
19. Enforcement of mergenoy Capital Adjustment Law.
20. Encouraging thrift and saving. By Bureau of Finance.
21. Propagation of horse raising idea.
22. Petroleum Consumption Regulations.
23. Enccuragement of cavings in Cooperative Crsdit
Associations.
24. Forestry enterpris on coasts. By Productive
Industries Bureau.
85. Raising standards or police officers.
26. Training of aborigines as civic people. By Bureau of
Polioe.
28. Encouraging afforestation of camphor trees by
private individuals and firms.
29. Cultivation of tobacoo leaf of yellow leaf variety
and cigar variety. By Monopoly Bureau.
Points For Disoussion
1. Information and propaganda. By Emergenoy Intelligence
Department.
2. Emergenoy disposition of local taxes.
3. Reduoing local taxes on soldiers or military
employees called to colors for China Incident.
4. Revision or abolition of laws and regulations
regarding military affairs.
5. Inspeotion of business relating to oalling to
colors and commandeering of supplies.
By Bureau of Interior.
6.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
6. Enrollment of students into Young Mens Training
Schools.
7. Improving National Language Schools. By Bureau
of Education.
8. Regarading agricultural associctions and live
stock associations.
9. Regarding live stock industry.
10. Regarding chambers of comme rce and industry.
11. Use of gold and production of gold. By Bureau of
Productive Industries.
12. Removing garbage.
13. Regarding Association for combatting tuberculosis
in Taiwan.
By Burenu of Police.
14. Regarding planning of important industries
having connection with railwny traffic.
By Bureau of Communications and Transport.
(From Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo April 22, 1938)

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
894a.00
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
794.00/131
#3039
SEE
FOR
Japan
Grew
June 22, 1938.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
894A.00/26
Japan's "Southward Advance" policy.
REGARDING:
Port of Takao, Formosa: observations on the significance of-,
in relation to this policy. Copy of Naval Attache's report
enclosed, containing translation of report sent the Italian
Admirality by the Italian Naval Attache at Tokyo.
FRG.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
March 1, 1940.
Mr. Secretary:
The contents of the tags
covering this report (on
"Japanization of the People of
Taiwan" [Formosa]) are well
worth noting.
SKX
MAR 2-1940
NOTED
PA/H:SKH:ZMK

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.94)
1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 28, 1940
DAA:
DCA:
Reference Taihoku's voluntary report of
December 2, 1939, entitled "'Kominke' or the
Jepanization of the People of Taiwan".
FE recommends a grade of "Excellent"
for this thorough, well-documented, and use-
ful study.
Although this report was written in
Taihoku, Mr. Emmerson has now returned to
his assignment as Vice Consul at Osaka.
CC
Coville:HJN

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
P
5
Ck
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 29, 1940.
Mr.Hornbeck.
S:
Mr. Secretary.
The attached voluntary report from
Vice Consul Emmerson is a study of the degree
of success attained in Japan's effort to
Japanize the inhabitants of Taiwan (Formosa).
It is an excellent report, which throws light
on
(1) Japan's administration of colonial
possessions,and
(2) relations between the Japanese and
Chinese races when they are brought into
contact.
The report shows that Japan's administra-
tive policy in Taiwan has been designed for
the marked advantage of the Japanese at the
expense of the inhabitants of Chinese race.
Political, civic, and religious organizations
all appear to be governed by the purpose of
keeping the population of Chinese race sub-
servient to the Japanese, and various means
are employed to place a premium on acceptance
of the Japanese language and Japanese culture.
Japan has unquestionably imposed a thorough-
going and effective control of the people,
but their real adherence to Japanese institu-
tions is still far from accomplished.
The

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.94)
F
5
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2-
The experience of Taiwan does not
indicate that contact of the Japanese and
Chinese races conduces to theircooperation
as equals which is a part of the asserted
"new order" in east Asia. Nothing of
equality between races is observable in Taiwan.
The Japanese take there an attitude, and
cleim a position, of distinct superiority
and domination, which is deeply resented by
the subject population.
N
894A.00/27
CC
FE:Coville:REK

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 26, 1940
JWB:
MMIH?
Reference Taihoku's voluntary report of
December 2, 1939, entitled "'Kominka' or the
Japanization of the People of Taiwan".
Vice Consul Emmerson has here compiled an
extraordinarily thorough report, which merits
the grade of "Excellent", on the subject of
the Japanese nationelizing of the inhabitants
of Taiwan. The following are outstending points
in the report:
The Governor General of Taiwan has publicly
stated that Japanization of the people of Taiwan
1s one of the issues most vital to Taiwan at
present (the others being (1) Japanese expansion
to south China and the South Seas, and (2)
industrialization).
One of the agencies of Japanization 1s town
and village assemblies, which are in no sense
legislative bodies. They are dominated by
Japanese. In the seme way the five provincial
assemblies were recently composed of 86 Japa-
nese and 58 Formosan Chinese. Nine city
assemblies comprise 99 Japenese and 34 Formosan
Chinese.
Political organization is paralleled by a
"voluntary" organization gradually expanding out
to

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
7
1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
to include all households, which organization is
used to draft attendance at public celebretions,
patriotic meetings, farewells and welcomes for
soldiers, and to collect special subscriptions,
cooperation in air raid drills, end obtain a
supply of labor contributions. There is an
element of indirect compulsion which is effective
In the rural districts the "voluntery"
organization raises levies of crops end animals
and sometimes monetary contributions.
Knowledge of the Japanese language is being
made a requisite for good standing and advance-
ment. The percentage of Japanese-speaking
Formosan Chinese 1s seid to have increased from
.4 of 1% in 1905 to 8 1/2% in 1930 and over
45% at the present time. Town and village
police stetions record the names of inhabitants
considered conversant with Japanese. Formosan
Chinese have come to realize that without a
listing in the book privileges and opportunities
are denied. Any inhabitants doing business with
a bank or government office must speak Japanese
or the conversation must be interpreted into
Japanese; the conversetion of a Formosan who
does not speak Japanese is required to be inter-
preted into Japanese even though his business
is with a clerk who is a Formosan.
Jepanese in Taiwan have no difficulty in
obtaining entrance to middle and higher schools
but Formosan students are discriminated
against

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
1
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
but
against and they make up a smell percentage of
the students. In the university it is only in
the medical department thet the number of
Formosan students approaches the number of Jape-
nese etudents.
Many generetions must pass before Japanese
becomes the language of the people of Taiwan.
Very few persons are exempt from labor
contributions. A card is received steting the
date, hour and place at which one is to report.
Work includes road building, flood prevention
projects, care of shrines, clearing land, air-
field construction and tree planting.
Japanization is promoted through the re-
ligious epproach also, in which Shinto is
favored.Police surveillance of religious and
educational activities has become increasingly
strict. Three specific instances are known in
which Christian ministers were "urged" to speak
at anti-British rallies.
One county is being organized as a "model"
of Japanization. It will include a model
village.
Among the aborigines of the island the
Japanese police officer is not only guardian of
the law but also teacher, counsellor, economic
and

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-4-
and agricultural advisor and often doctor and
religious guide.
The Formosan Chinese naturelly resent the
dominetion of the Japanese and the ettitude of
superiority behind the dominetion. Although
rebellion is inconceivable, Japan cannot be
seid to heve achieved in Taiwan the "brother-
hood union of peoples" which is sometimes cited
as a particulerly meritorious charecteristic
of Japenese policy toward the Chinese. Rece
consciousness is so strong thet, for example,
no Japanese instructor in a university would
serve under a Formosan Chinese member of the
faculty.
Courses in Mandarin Chinese are unusually
popular at the present time and numerous night
schools are flourishing where Formosans hope
to prepare themselves for careere in China.
CC
FE:Coville:HJN

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.91)
-VOLUNTARY-
CONFIDENTIAL.
E g.t
C
eck
Hile
OFFICE OF THE ADER
Sarhohu
ERNTIA  RS
Ooaka
MAR - 9 1940GL
Dea
3/6/40
 OF 
Cohy in FE
March
bAK
mek
Excellent
Emmerson
ONT
MID
(now ot Osaka)
SNO
oF
DUIVISION OF
POLITIn
RELATIONS
ADE AGREEMINI
.CK
0 FR6
TA
MAN
RTMENT OF SATE
00
DEPARTMENT OF STATT
"KOMINKA" OR THE JAPANIZATION OF THE PEOPLE OF TAIWAN
American Vice Consul
ohn K. kmmersom
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan.
OF STATE
Date of Completion: November 27, 1939.
Date of Mailing
: December z, 1939.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.94)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
INTRODUCTION
1
工。
ORGAS OF PCLITIL JOAROL
3
Local elf-overnment.
3
The lection of ovember , 199.
C
Municipal Chokai
9
The Hoko System.
11
II. EDUCATIONAL COMNTROL
. 16
Language
. 16
Educational Organs
.20
III. SOCLL CONTROL
.26
Renovation of Customs.
26
Spiritual Lobilization
27
IV. RELIGIOU COITROL.
. 32
Religions in Ta iwan
32
Religious Organizations
32
Christianity in Tuiwan
34
Japanese Policy Toward Religion
37
V.
A MODEL COUNTY D VILLAGE:  EX PL
Or KO-MIN-KA
.39
Chureki County .
. 39
Yachio Village .
.41
VI. THE PROBLEN: OF THE ABORIGINES.
.45
administration
.45
Education
.47
Social Reform
.48
VII. THE FUTURE OF KO-MIN-KA.
. 51
Success of Ko-min-ka
. 51
Economic Position of the Formosan
Chinese.
.52
VIII. SUMARY AND CONCLUSION .
.55
NOTE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF TAIWAN
.58
GLOSSARY OF JAPANESE TERMS
.59
SOURCES OF INFORMATION

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
Page
SOURCES OF INFORMATION
ILAPS AND CHARTS
CHART OF LOCAL SLF-CV  I. TA
. Folloving p.
3
MAP SHONIHG DISTRIBU ICI. OF SAVAGE
POPULATION
Followin.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
"KO-MIN-KA" OR TIHE JAPANIZATION OF TAIWAN
INTRODUCTION
The Governor-General of Taiwan has stated
publicly on various occasions thet the three issues
most vital to Teiwan t the present time were: 1)
expansion to South China und the South Seas, 2)
1
industrialization of the islund, and 3) ko-min-ka
or the Japanization of the people of Taiwan.
The
first two problems have been treated in previous
2
reports of this Consulate.
In the present discussion,
an effort has been made to outline the various organs,
both official and unofficial, which Japan is using
as means to inculcate those principles of patriotism
and Japanese ideology believed necessary to Japanize
the Formosans. In addition, a study has been made
of the measures taken by the Japanese to remodel the
culture and religion of the people of Taiwan after a
Japanese model. While no definitive conclusions
can be drawn, an evaluation of the progress made
by the Japanese in their campaign to Japanize the
Formosans has been attempted.
The campaign of Ko-min-ka in its present vigorous
and intensive form dates only from the beginning of
the China Incident. Not only was it felt to be a
measure necessary to forestall any pro-Chinese
sympathies which might result from the hostilities,
I Ko-min-ka (  R 化 ) means literally "change-to-
Imperial-people".
"Taiwan and Expansion to South China and the South
Seas", August 15, 1939; "The Industrialization of
Taiwan", September 16, 1939.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
but it is now regarded as a program of education
which may contain many lessons for the future.
Ko-min-ka is therefore believed to be a phenomenon
of more than local significunce. Japan would
desire to apply this some program, with variations,
to those territories in China which she may come
to control. For this reason, the subject is
believed to be one of importance at this time.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
I. ORGANS OF POLITICAL CONTROL
In order to understand the Japanization
movement in Teiwan, it is necessary to examine
the administrative orguns, official nd unofficial,
which are being utilized in the process.
These
include the local assemblies as well as the urban
and rural systems known as chokai and hoko, the
latter an ancient Chinese inheritance permitted to
remain in existence.
Local Self-Government
The present system of local self-government
was established april 1, l935 and elections for
village, town, and city assemblies were held in
that year. The terms of local elected officials
are four years; thus, the second election in the
history of Taiwan was held November 22, 1939.
The franchise in Taiwan is granted to Japanese
1
male subjects 25 years of age or over, with independent
means, resident in the city, town, or village for
a specified period, and who have paid a city, town,
or village tax of at least ¥5.00. Incompetents,
bankrupts, and persons with prison records are
ineligible to vote.
The chart reveals the limitations placed upon
self-government in Taiwan. It is noted that only
one-halr the membership of the village, town, and
1 The term "Japanese male subjeot" does not of course
exolude Formosan Chinese; it means all subjects
of the Emperor of Japan.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT IN TAIWAN
1
GOVERNOR-GENERAL
(SOTOKU - 總 督)
Appoints:
1. Provincial Governors
2. City, town, and village
heads.
3. t members of Provincial
Assemblies.
Vetoes:
1. acts of.provincial
assemblies, through
provincial governor.
May order dissolution of town
or village assemblies.
PROVINCE
(SHU +H)
GOVERNOR
(SHU CHIJI-州知事)
Appoints:
mempers of city, town
and village assemblies
Vetoes:
acts of provincial
assemblies.
PROVINCIAL ASSEMBLY
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
(SHU-KAI-  )
(SHU-SANJI-KAI-参事會
20-40 members as deter-
mined by Goy. Gen.
9 members: Prov. Gov.,
appointed by Gov. Gen.
Vice-Gov., 6 members
eleoted by members of
elected by and from
city, town, village
Provincial ssembly.
assemblies.
Powers: budget,collection
acts when assembly not
taxes, fees, etc., flota-
in session.
tion of bonds, etc.
COUNTY
(GUN -郡 )
General
Police
Affairs
Affairs
CITY
TOWN
VILLAGE
(SHI -市 )
(GAI+街)
(SHO庄)
MAYOR
(SHI-IN -市尹)
CHIEF
HEAD
Vetoes: acts of
city assembly
(GAI-KYOGI-KAI)
TOWN ASSEMBLY
(SHO-KYOGI-
VILLAGE
街協議會
KA工 一座協議會
ASSEMBLY
COUNCIL
8-20 members
Membership
(SHI-KAI -市)
(SHI-SANJI-KAI)
according to
organization,
20-40 members
population.
auties, same
according to
Members: Mayor
t members ap-
as Town
population
Vice-Mayor, 6
pointed by
assembly.
t mempers ap-
pointed by
members elected
Prov. Gov.
Prov, Gov
by and from
members elected
t Members elect
the Assembly.
Term: 4 years
by people (see
Functions when
Submit, opinions
Duttos: pudget,
below)
.ssembly not
to gov't offices
on their request.
collection
in session.
taxes.,foes
rlotation bond
oity regu-
lations, etc.
Indicates elected by city, town, and village assemblies
Indicates elected by male citizens, 25 years of age or
over resident in district 6 months, paid municipal tax
of v5 or over, not bankrupt, inoompetent, criminal, etc.
1 See: Note on the dministration of Taiwan, p. 58.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
city assemblies are elected by the people, as
defined above.
Town and village assemblies are
in no sense of the word legislative bodies.
They
exist only to give advice, when requested, on local
matters.
There ie no obligution on the part of
the town or village head to usk udvice of the
assembly or to follow such advice when siven.
Furthermore, the Governor General may dissolve the
town and village assemblies at will.
Provincial and city assemblies are empowered to
enact a budget and vote on certain measures deter-
mined by law or decree of the Governor General.
Both the Governor of a province and the Mayor of
a city hold the veto power over acts of the
assemblies, which power may be exercised independently
or upon instruction of the Governor-General.
It is noted that in addition to the veto power,
the fact that one-half the members of provincial,
city, and village assemblies are appointed either
by the Governor General or the Provincial Governor,
means that the degree of self-government available
to the Formosan population is very small indeed.
The question naturally arises: how much
participation in government is actually permitted
to the Formosan Chinese?
The roster of provincial
and city assemblies indicates the preponderant
position held by Japanese. Of the total membership
of l44 in the five provincial assemblies (before
the

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
the election of November, 1939), 86 were Japanese,
58, Formosan.
In the three prefectural assemblies,
this proportion was 5 to 11, and in the nine city
assemblies, Japunese members numbered 142 as against
100 Formosan Chinese.
1
Membership in Tuiwan Local assemblies
Provinces:
Jupanese
Formosan Chinese
Taihoku
23
11
Shinchiku
12
10
Taichu
17
11
Tainan
20
15
Takao
14
11
Total
86
58
Prefectures:
Taito
8
443
Karenko
11
Boko (Pescadores)
6
Total
25
11
Cities:
Keelung
17
9
Taihoku
22
12
Shinchiku
13
11
Taichu
17
11
Shoka
10
16
Tainan
17
12
Kagi
14
12
Takao
19
7
Heito
13
10
Total
142
100
GRAND TOTAL
253
169
It is notable that in one instance, Shoka city,
Formosans outnumbered Japanese, 16 to 10, and also
that in Takao, Taiwan's most important military
port, the proportion of Japanese to Formosans on
the city assembly was 19 to 7.
1
 Compiled from: Taiwan Government General,
Direotory of Government Personnel (Shoku-in-roku),
July 1, 1939.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
The Election of November 22. 1939
The second election since the founding of
Japanese administration in Taiwan was held November
22, 1939.
. Governnent appointees to the city, town,
and village assemblies vere announced Hovember 10,
and from thut date until the election, vigorous
campaigns were carried on by the candidates for
people's representatives. Meetings were held in
all parts of the island and much publicity matter
was distributed. It is estimated that campaign
for membership in a city assembly, such as Taihoku,
cost each candidate approximately ¥3,000.
The large increase in qualified voters over
the previous election of 1935 is shown by the
following figures:
Qualified Voters
1935
1939
Japanese ... 40,297
Japanese ... 44,676
Formosan .. 187,155
Formosan .. 286,740
Total
227,452
Total
331,416
Voters were urged to exercise their right of
suffrage and the percentage of those qualified who
actually voted was 96.73% for the whole of Taiwan,
an inorease of slightly less than 1% over the
percentage in 1935.
The best record was attained
by Shinchiku province 99% of whose qualified voters
turned out at the eleotion.
The lowest percentage
was in Keelung city (89%).
The number of spoiled ballots showed an inorease
over

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
over the record of four years ago, due to the fact
that voters were required to write personally the
name of the candidate for whom they cast their
vote. Special instruction in the writing of kana
(Japanese syllabary) was offered in m ny towns
and villages previous to the election.
It is naturul thut, iue to the distribution
of population, the number of Formosan Chinese
representatives-elect should be greater in towns
and villages and smaller in the cities. It is
also interesting to note the comparatively small
number of Formosan Chinese among the Governnent
appointees to city assemblies. 1939 appointees
to the nine city assemblies showed an increase in
Japanese and a decrease in Formosans over those
in office since 1935.
Government appointees to 9 City ssemblies
Japanese
Formosan
1935
88
42
1939
99
34
The present election has been the occasion
for some disoussion in the press of the merits and
demerits of the local government system in effect
in Taiwan, especially the provision of the law
that one-half the members of city, town, and village
assemblies must be appointed by the Government.
This system is criticized on the grounds that it
restricts the rights of the people to participate
in government, and since so large a percentage of
Government appointees is usually Japanese, causes
friotion

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
friction between Japanese and Formosan Chinese.
The Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo defended the system
editorially, pointing out defects in the working
of local covernment in Japan Proper, where all
members of loeal acremblies  re elected.
It
was meintuined that  i mn'e pro rens nd exmerience
in local self-gover ent were yet insufficient to
remove the control which the Government now exercises
through power of appointment.
Results of the election of .ovember 2, 1939
and the relative numbers of Japanese and ormosan
Chinese assembly members are indicated in the
following tables.
9 Cities of Taiwan
1935-1939
1939
1939
1939
Government
Elected
Total
-ppointees
Membership
Formosan
Formosan
Formosan
Formosan
Japanese Chinese Japanese Chinese Japanese Chinese
Japanese Chines
Taihoku
22
12
14
6
11
9
25
15
Keelung
17
9
10
4
9
5
19
9
shinchiku
13
11
10
443243
4
10
14
14
Taichu
17
11
10
7
7
17
11
Shoka
10
16
11
2
12
13
15
Tainan
17
12
11
7
6
18
8
Kagi
14
12
10
6
8
16
12
Takao
19
7
13
9
7
22
10
Heito
13
10
10
4
5
9
15
13
142
100
99
34
60
73
159
107
Town and Village assemblies
1939
1939
1939
Government
Elected
Total
ppointees
Membership
Formosan
Formosan
Formosan
Japanese
Chinese
Japanese Chinese
Japanese Chinese
Towms
249
173
69
353
318
586
Villages
415
984
62
1339
477
2323
It

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
It is noted that in the city assemblies,
Japanese outnumber Formosan Chinese by 52, as
compared to 42 at the time of the previous election.
In town and village assemblies, the percentage of
Japanese members is small.
The local press reports un ineident in u
village in Taihoku province as an example of
successful ko-min-ka. It is said that in this
village, although Japanese inhabitants eligible to
vote numbered only 8, a Japanese was recommended
and supported by Formosan Chinese voters and was
elected by a large majority.
Municipal "Chokai"
The chokai system, which is similar to that
in existence in the municipalities of Japan Proper,
provides a convenient network of unofficial control
extending from the Mayor's office to the individual
homes of the city inhabitants. a city is divided
into a number of districts (ku) and a head of each
district (ku-cho) is appointed by the Mayor.
This
office is honorary and carries no compensation;
however, a certain sum of money is appropriated by
the municipality for expenses of maintaining an
office. Sub-committee members (ku i-in) are appointed
in each district by the ku-cho and carry out his
instruotions.
Each u consists of a number of streets or
blooks (cho) in which are found the chokai or
neighborhood

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
neighborhood councils.
These are voluntary
organizations, whose chairmen are elected by the
inhabitants of the neighborhood.
The purposes
of the chokai are to increase the welfare and
prosperity of the locul inhubitants, to promote
friendship umong them, nd to assist the municipul
administration.
One rather surprising activity
of the chokai, at least in Taihoku, is its responsi-
bility for street lighting within its district, a
function not undertaken by the city.
Expenses of
the chokai are met through contributions from the
inhabitants; these range from ¥2.40 to ¥60 per year
per family, according to financial ability.
Very often the head of a ku and the chairman
of a chokai are one and the same person. In such
instances, combined offices are maintained.
The councillors of the chokai (hyogi-in) are
appointed by the chairman and assist him in adminis-
tering neighborhood activities.
This system provides a quick and convenient
method for dissemination of instructions, information,
and public notices. Each committee member under
a ku represents approximately twenty houses; when
he receives a notice from his chief, it is his duty
to ciroularize it among the houses in his jurisdiction.
The notice is usually taken from house to house and
the seal of the head of the family obtained as
acknowledgment of his having read the instruction.
This

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
This method is used to draft attendance at public
celebrations, patriotic meetings, farewells and
welcomes for soldiers, to collect special subscriptions,
announce air ruid drills, re uest labor contribution,
etc.
While the neighborhood organizations are un-
official, there is still an element of indirect
compulsion which is effective. While the contribution
to the support of the chokai is not a tax, still an
amount appropriate to station in life is expected
of each household and refusals are probably very few
if they occur at all.
The police undoubtedly exert
an important though indirect influence over the chokai.
The "hoko" system
The hoko system, of Chinese origins, has been
permitted to continue in existence in the towns and
villages of Taiwan. It was legalized by decree of
the Taiwan Government General in 1898 as a subsidiary
organization to assist police administration.
In
1909 its duties were widened to include assistance
to local civil administration.
One ko is a group of approximately ten house-
holds; a no is ten ko, or approximately loo households.
The head of each ko is elected by the householders,
but this choice must be approved by the head of the
county (gun) and the respective heads of district
and local police stations. Election of the head
of

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
of the ho, or hosei, is subject to the approval not
only of county and police officials but lso of
the provincial or prefectural governor.
The duties of the heads of the ko nd ho
are defined as follows:
1. Maintenance of pence ni oruer in district.
2. Takins of census in district.
5. Encourugoment of cood morals nd conduct;
punishment of offenders (morals und conduct).
The law provides that rewards and punishments
may be meted out by the heads of ho and ko as
incentives to the maintenance of order and welfare.
Expenses for the hoko are obtained from levies
on the households; these amount to an average of
60 sen per month per household.
. The chiefs of the
various ho organize associations which may meet for
discussion of local problems.
The law provides further that under the
auspices of the ho, young men's associations
(sotei dan) may be organized, primarily for the
purpose of guarding against banditry and natural
disasters such as flood, fire, and typhoons.
Members of the association are men between the
ages of 17 and 40 of good standing and strong physique.
They are under the supervision of the local police
and are sometimes given training at the police
station. The soteidan is not to be confused with
the seinendan, a purely Japanese organization,
described in a later section of this report.
The

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
The extent of the hoko system and the young
men's bodies under its control is indicated in
the following table:
1
The Number of Ho and Ko. (December 31, 1937)
Province or
prefecture.
1.o. of o.
Ho. of Hosei. No. of Kocho
(chiefs of ho) (chiefs of Ko)
Taihoku
1,058
1,057
9,812
Shinchiku
705
705
6,896
Taichu
1,269
1,269
12,159
Tainan
1,530
1,530
14,796
Takao
797
797
7,702
Taito
65
65
551
Karenko
79
79
777
Hoko
108
108
1.001
Total
5,611
5,610
53,694
The number of Sotei Dan (Young Men's Bodies).
No, of
No. of
Province or
assistant
young
prefecture.
No. of bodies. No. of chiefs. chiefs
men.
Taihoku
201
199
800
6,313
Shinchiku
143
143
654
5,301
Taichu
177
177
1,129
7,857
Tainan
261
261
1,502
12,546
Takao
156
156
745
6,940
Taito
53
52
104
2,390
Karenko
27
27
57
555
Hoko
20
20
45
573
Total
1,038
1,035
5,036
42,475
In practice, although the hoko system is
Chinese in origin and existed in Taiwan long before
the Japanese occupation, it is utilized as a means
to Japanize the Formosan population. In the past
the chief of the ho was by tradition the patriarch
of the village and these offices were held almost
without exception by old men. at present, knowledge
of the Japanese language is being made a requisite
1 Taiwan Government General Taiwan Jiio, Taihoku,
1938. Pages 70, 71, 72.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
for the position of chief.
This has resulted
in a complete change in personnel, with leader-
ship almost invariably resting in the hands of
young men whose education has been Japanese.
Close police supervision of the hoko system
means that the thouht und activities of every
household can be easily controlled.
The hoko
played an important part in the recent anti-British
agitation, when meetings in towns and villages all
over the island were quickly and efficiently organized.
It is the system which facilitates contributions
and levies for special purposes. Such requisitions
often take the form of requests but no Formosan
Chinese dares resist a system which in fact
represents the police.
Since the China Incident, the Formosan Chinese,
although not granted the right of military service,
have made and are making substantial contributions
to the progress of hostilities.
The hosei notifies
the farmers in his district that hay is needed for
army horses; each farmer is told the amount he must
supply.
Castor beans are always referred to in
the press as a "patriotic crop" since the oil is
used by airplanes. Production of castor beans
is compulsory and farmers are given quotas which
they must fill. Effect of this control is
revealed in the fact that castor bean production
inoroased from 126,893 1bs. in 1936 to 4,158,364
1bs. in 1938; a goal of 23,000,000 1bs. is set
for

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
for 1949. The hoko system can be used to keep
the farmers in line with national policy.
1
In addition to levies of crops and animals,
monetary contributions are fre uently solicited.
1 a familiar sight on the street running past
the Consulate is a procession of water buffalo
each with a red ribbon around its middle, signirying
that it is to be sent to the army in China.
Farmers are paid approximately 30 for animals
valued at from ¥1o0 to ¥300.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
II. EDUCATIONAL CONTROL
Language
Japan is engaged in the stupendous task
of changing the language of neurly five million
people.
Thile the Tiwanese continue to use
their native ton ue (principally Fukien dialects
of Chinese) in social and business intercourse
with one another, it is undoubtedly true that
the number of those who have some knowledge of
Japanese is increasing at a very rapid rate.
The percentage of Japanese-speaking Formosans
is said to have increased from .4% in 1905 to
8.5% in 1930, to 37.8% by 1937 and to be over
45% at the present time.
1
Formosan Chinese With Knowledge of Japanese
Percentage of
total Formosan
Men
Women
Total
population
1905
10,801
469
11,270
.4 %
1915
50,143
4,194
54,337
1.6
1920
87,897
11,168
99,065
2.9
1930
394,677
70,750
365,427
8.5
1937
37.8
1938
41.9
1939
45.6
No information is available as to the standard
used in determining knowledge of Japanese and
thus the figure of 45.6% may be an exaggeration,
but it is nevertheless true that the campaign to
promote the acquisition of Japanese has been
greatly intensified since the beginning of the
1 Figures through 1930 from Taiwan Gensei Yoran
(Summary of Conditions in Taiwan), l939 odition,
Taiwan Government General, P. 66. 1937-1939 figures
from Taiwan Jiho, Taiwan Government General,
September, l939. "The Now Development of a
Shosei Shimada, p. 13.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
China Incident.
Various methods are used to spread the
knowledge and use of the Japanese language.
Town and village police stations record the nanes
of inhabitants considered convers nt with Jaounese.
Periodical insrestion of homes nd orol ucstioning
determine eligibility for the book.
menever
a Lormosan needs recourse to the local authorities,
for licenses, business purposes, appeals, or other
matters, reference is invariably made to the
"blue book".
If the applicant's name appears
in the book, he is usually granted his reguest;
if not, he is refused.
Obviously there is room
for graft and the shutting of official eyes in
judging eligibility for the book.
 foreigner
with a wide acqueintance among ormosan Chinese
states that he knows of a number of instances
where a man of some financial influence in the
community is listed in the blue book" although
his knowledge of Japanese is decidedly open to
question. Nevertheless, it is understood that
the system, only recently inaugurated, is producing
results.
ormosans have come to realize that
without a listing in the book privileges and
opportunities are denied.
as stated previously, the hosei or head of
the ho must have a knowledge of Japanese.
One
cannot now hold office or participate in local
meetings or assemblies without being able to speak
Japanese,

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
Japanese, or the "national language" (kokugo).
Newspapers daily publish reports from various
localities emphasizing local pride in the spread
of Japanese.
An example is an item from Ruto,
a town in Teiholu province, statin that the
coming election will renove from town und village
office every non-Japanese speaker.
 census
in Heito, Takao province, revealed that only S2%
of the Formosan population knew the national
language; to remedy the situation, a school is
being opened for every ten homes and instruction
is to be given by members of the young men's
association to persons over 10 years of age.
Use of Japanese only is permitted in banks
and government offices. ven though a Formosan
speaks with a clerk who is also Formosan, the
language must be Japanese and if the former is
unable to converse, an interpreter is required.
To stimulate language learning, insignia bearing
the legend "This household speaks the national
language" are placed above the doors of Formosan
homes. Other signs "Speak only the national
language" are seen frequently in buses and public
places.
Mr. Hide ihara, Commandant of the Keelung
Base, said to the press before his departure from
Taiwan on Ootober 3, 1939: "The basis of Japanization
(ko-min-ka) is dissemination of the national language.
To

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
To do this, I believe we must immediately mobilize
the motherhood of Taiwan under the slogan 'Raise
our children in Japanese'. "Even though one may
know the national lunguage, to use Taiwanese at
all does not befit . 'soldier of the Imperial Army'."
There are 7,So6  National Lan uage Truining
Schools (Kokugo Koshusho) which exist for the
purpose of teaching Jepanese to adults.
According
to statistics as of March, 1938, the numbers of
1
schools and students were as follows:
Annual
Humber Pupils
Cost
Elementary training schools
3,454 34,865 ¥1,576,975
Training schools
3.852 257.277
Total
7,306 292,142
.ccording to Ir. Shimada of the Taiwan Government
General, Bureau of ducation, the number of institutes
2
remains the same, although pupils now number 470,000.
Sessions of the koshusho are held in schoolrooms,
public halls, special buildings built for the purpose,
or private homes. Teachers are almost invariably
Formosans, usually members of the local young men's
association who have graduated at least from the
primary schools. uality of instruction necessarily
varies greatly. A young Formosan states that in
some districts, members of the young men's association
are particularly active and enthusiastic; in such
cases, instruction and results at the training
school may be satisfactory. In other districts
I Taiwan Gensei Yoran (Summary of Conditions in Taiwan),
1939. op.oit. p. 65.
& Taiwan Jiho, September, 1939. Op.cit. p. 13.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
there is little local interest and the guality
of instruction is poor.
Often the instructors
themselves have an inade uate knowledge of Japanese.
It is stated that occusionally  Jupanese with
earnest convictions to id in the process of
ko-min-ka will volunteer to teach; such cuses re
extremely rare, however.
Instructors receive no
pay.
Texts used in the training schools are published
especially for the purpose by The Taiwan Educational
association.
 The language used is extremely simple
and few Chinese charucters are introduced.
The
subject matter includes lessons on Japanese etiquette,
polite phrases, Japanese holidays, shrine worship,
as well as treatment of Formosan village and rural
1
daily life.
While the people of Taiwan are far from using
Japanese in their daily life, knowledge of the
language is increasing rapidly and within a few
generations it will doubtless supplant to a large
degree Formosan Chinese, among the educated.
Educational Organs
It is realized that education must be the basis
of a Japanization movement in Taiwan. although
a present no compulsory education law is in force,
such a law has been drawn up and will be made
effective from the fiscal year 1943.
The matter
was decided at a meeting of the.Advisory Councial
of the Government General on Ootober 26, 1939.
The
1
Now Nati onal Langvace Pee
dera, Taiwan Educational
Aesociation, Taihera, Jume 15, 1959.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
The proposed law will apply likewise to Japanese,
Formosan Chinese, and aborigines; it will be
similar to the law in Japan Proper, requiring
attendance through six years of primary school.
The school system in Taiwan is b sed on the
Educational Ordinance of 19: which provides for
elementary schools of two categories: (1) for
those "who habitually speak the national language",
known as primary schools (sho-gakko), and (z) for
those "who do not habitually speak the national
language", known as elementary public schools
(ko-gakko).
The wording of the law thus avoids
discrimination against the Taiwanese.
Governor General Den stated pril 1, 1922,
upon promulgation of the Education Ordinance:
"all distinction between the two schools (sho-gakko
and ko-gakko) will have no reason for existence
the moment sufficient knowledge of the national
language is achieved."
Director General Morioka in a statement on
the subject of compulsory education, cited the
following statistics on primary school attendance
1
in Taiwan:
Primary Schools (Japanese only)
Percentage of total
childron/primary
Schools
Pupils
school age
1896
4
152
1939
142
46,875
99.5%
Publio Klementary Schools (Formosan only)
1896
14
971
1.00%
1939
812
564,746
55.83%
1 Taiwan Nippo, Tainan, October 26, 1939.
2 This figure compares to 35.44% as of april 30, 1933.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
Mr. Morioka emphasized that the Formosans are
Japanese nationals and that education is the
foundation upon which the national spirit must
be built. "Unlike western nations, who make no
effort to ussimilate their colonials, Jupan follows
a policy of Japunization hich will extend the
benefits of Japanese civilization to the people of
Taiwan.
The China Incident has stimulated this
Japanization process, evidenced by the admirable
patriotic work of Formosan interpreters, coolies,
and farmers with the Japanese army in China."
That educational facilities are woefully
inadequate is indicated by the Director General's
statement that more than 10,000 applications for
admittance to elementary schools must be turned
down every year.
Both Japanese and Formosans are admitted to
the same middle and high schools, and to the
university. In actual practice, however,
examination requirements are more difficult for
Formosans than for Japanese and the percentage of
Formosan students in middle and high schools is
low, in some schools averaging no more than 1%
of the total attendance. Japanese deny disorimi-
nation pointing out the language requirement as
1
an inevitable barrier.
Analysis of the register of students now
attending Taihoku Imperial University shows that
only
1 Peroentage of Formosan students in attendance
varies widely according to individual schools;
lowest peroentage is probably found in Taihoku
institutions.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 1.00)
-23-
only in the medical department does the number
of Formosan students approach that of Japanese.
This is due to the fact that the medical profession
alone offers u promising cureer to the young
Formosan Chinese.
Pructically ll positions of
importance in business und other professions  re
held exclusively by Japanese.
1
Students in Taihoku Imperial University
(as of July 20, 1938)
Department
Japanese
Formosan
Post-graduate
1
Philosophy
1
History
4
Literature
9
Political Science
40
11
Biology
4
Chemistry
6
4
agriculture
15
3
Agricultural Chemistry
12
3
Medicine
68
47
Total
159
69
Special Technical School:
agriculture
90
5
Forestry
60
3
Medicine
93
101
Total
243
109
GRAND TOTALS
402
178
TOTAL STUDENTS IN UNIVERSITY
580
It is noted from the above table that out of 178
Formosan students attending Taihoku Imperial University
in July, 1938, 148 were students of medicine.
Outside the regular educational system there
exist in Taiwan numerous organizations which have
as
1
Compiled from Directory of Taihoku Imperial
University, 1958, Taihoku, September 10, 1938.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
as their purpose the mental, spiritual, and
physical training of the people.
Most important
among these is the Young Men's Organization
(sei-nen-dan) with 114,465 members as of larch,
1938.
The nembership nd purpose of this
organization re different from those of the
so-tei-dan, previously discussed. while the
latter is a purely Formosan institution and
exists as a body of volunteer police for civic
welfare, the sei-nen-dan originated in Japan and
has as its purpose the inculcation of a national
Japanese spirit and improvement in the physique
of youth.
Both Japanese and Formosans belong
to the sei-nen-dan.
The organization is especially
active on occasions of festivals and air raid drills.
The Young Men's Training Associations (sei-nen
kun-ren-dan) meet for the purpose of military drill;
they are said to be preparing the way for eventual
military service for Formosans.
The following table indicates the number and
membership of the various organizations designed
1
to further the Japanization of the Formosan Chinese:
No. of
No. of
Annual
Institutions Members
Yen Cost
Young Peoples' Guidance
Educational Institutes
814
43,022
60,320
Young Peoples Organizations
Young Men's Organization
722
76,561
114,465
Young
1 Taiwan Gonsei Yoran, 1939. Op.cit. p. 65.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
No. of
Insti-
No. of
annual
tutions
Members
Yen Cost
Young Women's Organization
61
41,145
45,807
Young People Training
Institutes
Young Len
..9
,307
95,733
Young Women
5
158
6,513
Primary Organizations
156
5,843
33,758
School children's
organizations
56
12,922
5,164
Red Cross Children's
Organizations
165
44,157
5,070
Other Children's
Organizations
4
116
400
Village Educational
Organizations
Village Promotion Society
4,158
Village Meeting Group
2,346
(both)348,769
Libraries
81
390,354book895,533 readers
Museums
7
30,043exhibits505,515
visitors

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
III. SOCIAL CONTROL
Japan is attempting to abolish the Chinese
customs of the Formosan people. Since the outbreak
of the China Incident, this attempt has been
intensified and in addition, numerous and vuried
activities have been sponsored among the people
as part of the "national spiritual mobilization
movement".
Renovation of customs
The daily lives of the people of Taiwan are
to be influenced through a change in language, sociel
customs, and religion.
abolition of many customs is the result of
modern civilization, dictated by sanitation or
economic necessity. Others are matters of minor
importance, the prohibition of which is irritating
to the people. as one Formosan remarked to the
writer, "Many such reforms are changes in outward
appearance only. They do not reform the spirit
within."
The following are examples of sociel practices
controlled, prohibited or discouraged by Japanese
1
authorities:
Foot-binding of women.
No longer practiced,
this is seen only in old women.
Burial of the dead.
For purposes of
sanitation and to conserve land, cremation is
urged. However, the old practice of burial
and construction of conorete mounds is widely
carried on, especially in country districts
and by people of financial means.
Firecrackers
1 See Aisho, e periodical publication of Taihoku
Imperial University, april 8, l938.  "Introducing
Record of Taiwan Ouskeme" by Saisuke Balto.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Firecrackers.
Prohibited.
Gold and silver religious papers.
The burning
of these papers at temples, an ancient custom,
is now prohibited. The writer noticed, however,
upon a visit to Maso-byo, one of the most
important Formosan temples on the island,
that although a sign was posted "no gold or
silver papers to be burned", uantities of
such papers were uvailable in the temple.
Traditional Chinese costume.
Although still
in general use, wearing of the Chinese costume
is discouraged. Particular objection seems
to be taken to the cloth buttons used to
fasten the garment. Instances have been cited
of policemen cutting such buttons from the
coats of Formosan Chinese in public.
Traditional Chinese Theater.
Performances of
old plays in the Chinese tradition are no longer
permitted. Although use of the Taiwan dialects
is still allowed, actors must appear in modern
foreign or Japanese dress. Plays based on
Japanese themes of loyalty and "bushido are
encouraged. Exhibitions of the Taiwan puppet
plays are no longer allowed.
Story-tellers.
Prohibited, "due to the
present situation".
Betel-nut chewing.
Although prohibition of
this practice has been discussed, there is yet
no restriction. Betel-nuts are sold and used
openly.
Shops are especially prevalent in the
southern part of the island.
Opium smoking.
Through the Government monopoly,
the practice is said to be strictly controlled
and decreasing rapidly.
Native dances and festivals.
These are
discouraged. A few savage tribes are permitted
to continue their customary dances, but under
strict regulation and supervision. Tourists
to Lake Jitsugetsutan are regaled by an
aboriginal dance.
Spiritual Mobilization
While the term "spiritual mobilization" is an
outgrowth of the China Incident and although the
ko-min-k movementis of recent date, the Japanese
strongly affirm that spiritual reformation of the
Formosan

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
Formosan people began with Japan's acquisition
of the island. In 1934 the "Taiwan Social
Education association" was formed and under its
auspices numerous villuge groups were organized,
thus "laying the foundation for social und
1
spiritual education in iwun".
Principles
emphasized were: education, industry, sanitation,
security, transportation.
The concluding chapter of a text used in
the propagation of ko-min-ka consists of ten
rules of conduct, styled "The Ten Commandments
of Taiwan". These are interesting in that they
illustrate principles emphasized in the campaigns
2
of Japanization and "spiritual mobilization".
I.
Revere the Emperor. Make your body
as well as your soul that of a Japanese.
II.
Revere the Shinto Shrine. Discard
superstition.
III.
Use the Japanese language. Discard
Formosan Chinese.
IV.
Keep your body clean. Be neat in your
dress.
v.
Pay attention to hygiene. Stop the habit
of eating in public.
VI.
Build sanitary facilities.
VII.
Think of the comfort of others; do good
to them.
VIII. Follow the path of an honest man. Let us
abolish thieves and liars.
Stop gambling. Work hard and earnestly.
X.
Be polite and quiet. Stop quarrels and
avoid speaking in loud tones.
1 Ta1wan Jiho, September, 1939. Op.cit. p. 12
2 A Primer or National Conduot (ko-min Saho Tokuhon),
Kaoru Nakayama, Taihoku, Ootober 3, 1939. p. 59.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
"Slogan thinking", a phenomenon not unusual
in Japan, has been widely utilized in Taiwan since
the beginning of the China Incident. Slogans,
repeatedly placed before the eyes of the people
in newspapers, magazines, moving picture houses,
and public pluces, take tue pluce of independent
thinking.
The term "spiritual mobilization"
itself is a slogan, as is "new order in East asia";
both are difficult to define clearly.
few
examples will illustrate the psychology of the
campaign in Taiwan.
ELEVATE THE GREAT IDEALS OF THE NATION
AND BRING ABOUT THE CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW
ORDER IN EAST ASIA
ELEVATE GREATLY THE NATIONAL SPIRIT AND
FULFILL AND MOTIVATE THE WHOLE STRENGTH
OF THE NATION
100,000,000 PE0PLE OF 1 MIND: AIM AT
EFFÉCTING THE IMPERIAL WILL AND FULFILL
DUTIES DILIGENTLY
THE GREAT MISSION OF TAIWAN AND THE RESOLVE
OF THE PEOPLE OF TATWAN
ANNIHILATE THE UNSOUND SOCLAL PHENOMEN
WHICH OPPOSE UNDERSTANDING OF THE PRESENT
SITUATION
aotivities carried on as part of the campaign
for "spiritual mobilization" include 1) encourage-
ment of savings, z) mobilization of gold, 3)
contributions of labor, money, and materials, and
4) promotion of health and stature. In the
carrying out of these various activities the local
organizations (ghokai, no, and ko) play prominent
parts, as stated previously. Recent results are
indicated

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
indicated as follows:
Savings in Taiwan are said to have amounted
to ¥26,000,000 in 1938. The goal for 1939 is
¥100,000,000.
Gold and cold urticles mobilized up to March,
1939 are stated to amount to 150,000,000.
Labor contributions for a one year period
are listed as follows:
No. of
laborers
Hours of labor
School groups (primary
both Formosan and
Japanese, and middle)
629,510
3,101,869
Young men's organizations z2l,574
1,567,248
dults
399,708
2,265,351
The types of labor accomplished are road
building, flood prevention projects, cleaning and
caring for shrines and shrine grounds, clearing
land, clearing and cleaning air fields, tree
planting, etc.
Very few persons are exempt from labor
contributions. A card is received stating the
date, hour, and place at which one is to report.
Adequate explanations must be made for absence.
Monetary contributions consist of amounts
solicited through the chokai and hoko as well as
special fund raising campaigns.
 "one-vegetable"
campaign, encouraging the people to partake of
meals of one vegetable, contributing the savings
to the Government, netted ¥30,955. Another
campaign

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
campaign, "one-house-one-thing", brought ¥22,464,
proceeds from sale of articles contributed by
individual households.
Materials contributions, mentioned previously
in this report, consist of vegetables, fruit,
cattle, and other coods requisitioned for use of
the Japanese Army in China.
Health and stature promotion are the objectives
of numerous athletic organizations. Listeners
to "radio exercises" are said to have numbered
3,793,271 over a period of one year; "habitual"
listeners are put at 342,822.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
-32-
IV.
RELIGIOUS CONTROL
The control of religion plays an important
part in ko-min-ka.
Buddhism in Taiwan has no
relation to Japanese Buddhism and, mixed as it
is with Taoism and Jonfuoianism, is peculiarly
Chinese in origin nd manifestation.
For this
reason the Japanese wish to bolish this "Taiwan"
religion and the temples which symbolize it, putting
in its place the Japanese torii, shrine, and the
Shinto ritual.
Religions in Taiwan
There are said to be at present 3,700 Formosan
temples on the island; in point of age, these are
1
classified as follows:
More than 220 years old
249
1i
11
120
1:
11
1,066
11
17
50
:1
17
1,545
Modern or unknown
840
3,700
Statistics regarding other relisions in Taiwan, as
2
of the end of 1937, follcw:
Shinto
Buddhist
Christian
Places of
worship
63
179
261
Priests or
ministers 118
394
300
Adherents z9,877
175,003
53,278
Religious Organizations
an institution in existence since the opening
of Taiwan and now legalized, is the saishi kogyo or
"Religious Observance associations". The principal
object of these associations is the honoring and
1 Taiwan Jiho, July-august, 1939. "Study of Rural
Lire in Taiwan" by Michiyoshi Kajiwara,
grioultural Expert, Taiwan Government General. p.48.
2
Taiwan Gensei Yoran, Op. cit., p. 70.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
conducting of religious services for the dead.
Usually one family will support a saishi kogyo;
upon the death of a member of the family,
contributions from the other members ure invested
in land or buildings, the income to be used for
services to the uncestor, in perpetuity.
The existence of such a system over a long
period of years results in extensive and complicated
property holdings. In 1935 there were said to
be 10,667 such associations; land owned by them
amounted to 17,739 ko (42,520 acres) and buildings
of a space 29,682 tsubos (24.24 acres).
.The value
of the property at that time was estimated at
1
¥26,470,402.
No determined method of management is provided
for the saishi kogyo.
This results in opportunities
for dishonesty and quarrels within families.
Management of income is rendered more difficult by
the increasing size of families and their modern
tendency to soatter. One student of the subject
states that 17oo disputes are known to have occurred
within a period of l0 years over affairs conducted
2
by the societies.
Banksare said to be reticent
to lond money to these associations due to the
complexity of their management.
In addition to the saishi kogyo, there are two
other organizations of similar character found in
Taiwan. One is the Shin-mei-kai or "Sacred Light
Amnals of Political Researah, Taihoku Imperial
University, l936. "The Basio Problem of the
Saishi Kogvg", by Yoshihiko Saka, p. 280.
Ammals or Political Researoh, Op. cit., p. 54l.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
Society" consisting of groups formed usually
by persons with some common interest.
This may
be a common home-village in China, arrival in
Taiwan at the same time, or common business,
interests, or class.
The individual roups
maintain a certain umount of capitul; contributions
are solicited at times of religious festivities.
A third religious institution in Taiwan is
the So-ko-kai or "ancestor associations".
These
groups are organized by persons bearing the same
family name. As in China, there are very few
distinct family names.
The Chinese proverb "Half
the world is Chin or Rin" is true in Taiwan.
From the Japanese viewpoint, these organizations
are not in accordance with the "national polity"
and attempts are being made to liquidate them
gradually.
The task is not easy, in view of their
ancient origins, the importance of ancestor-worship
to the Chinese, and the extensive capital and
property holdings involved.
It may be noted here that, under the guise
of a religious organization, a plot to overthrow
Japanese rule was hatched in 1934 in Taichu province.
lthough 425 persons were arrested and 25 found
guilty, no announcement of the affair was made
until two years after it had been discovered, or
1
in October, 1936.
Christianity in Ta iwan
lthough Christianity was first introduced
1 Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo, Taihoku, Ootober
19, 1936.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
into Taiwan by the Dutch and Spaniards, once these
westerners had disappeared, no trace of the teaching
remained.
Christian missions on the island are
represented toduy by Spanish Catholics in Takao,
Keelung, und I ihoku, by scotch Presbyterians in
Tainan, by Canadian Presbyteriuns in Tuihoku and
Tamsui, and by  British "holiness" mission in
Taihoku. No American religious organizations
are represented although several mericans are
employed by the Canadian mission.
Missionaries ure experiencing great difficulties
in carrying on their work in Taiwan.
Ho foreigner
is now permitted to preach publicly in the Formosan
language and police surveillence of religious and
educational activities becomes continually more
strict.
. missionary who had worked many years
in Taiwan departed recently, having found it impossible
to carry on his duties.
.A special student of
Taiwan, he spoke Formosan Chinese fluently, but
was no longer permitted to address audiences and
his visits to local churches caused increasing
difficulties to village pastors and Christians.
after such visits, police questioning was so close
and so humiliating that he was earnestly requested
by the local groups not to call again.
Pastors of local Christian churches are subject
to olose watoh by the police. according to the
statement of an American missionary, the pastor
of

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
of a church in Shinchiku is required to report in
detail all interviews, discussions, and proceedings
of church meetings which he attends in Taiholu.
During the anti-British agitation, Christian pastors,
although representing a denomination whose origins
and support were British, were practically foreed
to take part in demonstrations.
Three specific
instances are known in which ministers were "urged"
to speak at anti-British rallies.
The tenor of
the "suggestions" was: "If you do not speak out
against Britain, it will be very suspicious indeed.
Such action will not go unheeded."
Preferring
their freedom to a martyrdom in jail, the pastors
denounced Britain according to prescribed lines.
The press occasionally attacks foreign missions
in Taiwan.
. A recent instance is an article warning
against spy activities by Spanish priests in the
sohool which they maintain at Keelung, due to its
advantageous position overlooking the harbor.
nother recent article attacked the young students
of the theological seminary maintained by the
Canadian Presbyterian Mission in Taihoku for their
summer evangelistic excursions into the country.
Important sentences in this particular article were
1
blooked out by order of the censors.
The attitude of the Government toward the
missionaries is antagonistic and, meafprocatly,
foreign missionaries in general are unsympathetio
1
Homan Jiho, Taihoku, October 8, 1939. "The
Beliers and Teaohngs of the Christian Seminary
Should Be Ousted".

=== Page 129 === (confidence 1.00)
-37-
to the Japanese.
They speak and understand the
Formosan Chinese dialects rather than Japanese
and their contacts are almost wholly with the
Formosan people.
They believe that before many
years no foreign missionaries will remain in the
island but they ure confident that Christianity
rests on a firm foundation here and will survive
in the native churches.
Japanese Policy Toward Religion
The policy of the Government is directed
toward eventual abolition of the byo or Taiwan
temples and replacement by Japanese shrines. This
is extremely difficult and no effort is being
made to effect a sudden reformation. In fact,
many of the Taiwan temples appear to be exceedingly
prosperous; for example, large sums of money are
being spent on a temple in a country district
near Taihoku. Not only are elaborate new stone
steps and approaches being built, but several new
1
buildings are under construction.
On the other
hand, Kentan-ji, a large and ancient temple of
considerable importance to Formosan believers,
happened to be situated on property purchased for
the Taiwan Shrine in Taihoku, and has been razed
to the ground during the past year.
The Japanese are making every effort to educate
the people of Taiwan to an appreciation of the
significance of the Japanese Shinto shrine. Every
village
1 Shi-nan-gu, near Shinten village, Taihoku province.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
village has its torii and shrine, sometimes
adjacent to the Chinese temple.
Textbooks used
in primary schools for Formosans, and in the
"national language truining schools" devote
considerable spuce to inculcating u knowleuge
of the shrine. In peeiul text for the use
of teachers in primary schools, the instructor
is admonished to "point out clearly the distinction
between the virtues and morality of shrine worship
1
and the confused religions of Taiwan".
1 Teacher's Manual "Morals Course for Klementary
Schools" (Kogakko - school for Formosan only),
Taihoku City Education association, June 30,
1937. 6th Year section. p. 4.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-39-
V.
A MODEL COUNTY AND VILLAGE:
AN EXAMPLE OF KO-MIN-KA
Chureki County
The effectiveness of social und religious
reformation varies reutly uecording to districts.
It is suid thut ko-min-ku is especially strong in
Shinchiku province, that the young men's ussociations
are particularly active and that some progress is
being made in the campaign for abolition of the
temples and the traditional religious associations.
In fact, one county (gun) has taken steps to abolish
all Formosan temples within its jurisdiction.
new Japanese shrine was dedicated October 15, 1939,
having been constructed at a cost of ¥170,000.
This
county is Chureki, about 18 miles southwest of Taihoku,
and since this district has been heralded in the
press as a "model" county, a discussion of its
"reformation" is interesting for the suggestion
it gives of the Japanese attitude and for a glimpse
of methods which the Government would like to put
into effect in all parts of the island.
The Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo, considered
un
the official organ of the Government General, devoted
full pages in two consecutive issues (October 15-16)
to the dedication of the new shrine in Chureki.
The leading article on October 15, boldly headlined
and ocoupying almost the entire top half of the
page, was entitled "Shrine Gods and Temple Gods"
and

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
and since it is believed to be an enlightening
example of the psychology and reasoning employed
by the Japanese in their efforts to rid Taiwan
of Chinese religious influences, a translation
has been included herewith.
Shrine (Jinja) gods nd lemple (ibyo) tods
Before the Chureki Shrine was decicated
to Japan's gods, many Formosan gods, worshipped
at the old customary temples, existed. On
October 14 at every Formosan temple in the
county (gun) ascension-to-Heaven ceremonies
were held for these gods and their images were
presented to the Department of Literature and
Politics, Taihoku Imperial University. With
this, Formosan temples in the "gun" ended
their existence.
The next day, which is today, the gods
of the new shrine descend from Heaven to the
county which became a "go aless village" after
the abolition of the temples. Now the great
problem brought forth by the erection of these
shrines in Taiwan is: what has become of the
gods of the temple who vanished yesterday?
Have they returned to China? s "unworshipped
gods", have they been driven from Heaven?  Or,
even as men die, have they, gods, also died?
The gods of the temples came from China
with the Chinese, as guardians of the Chinese
race. However, at the time of Japan's occupation
of Taiwan, these Chinese gods did not return
to China, but remained in Taiwan and until
today have had the confidence of the entire
Formosan population. Why, for what purpose,
did these gods remain in Taiwan? If the
cause of their remaining was to make and
keep the Formosans Chinese, then, since gods
are all-powerful, receiving the prayers of the
people, they might easily have stopped the
progress of the Japanese Army, blocked the
development of Japanese government. However,
the truth is that the result was exactly
opposite, and our society of today was built.
What is the reason for this? If the
gods of Taiwan were objectionable, perverse,
impotent, then the story would be a different
one. However, in spite of the fact that among
these gods were many of lineage, character, and
truo

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
-41-
true omnipotence, why then did they cooperate
in the establishing of a Japanese civilization?
In reality, if we look at the life of the
masses of Jormosens, it in those who have
completed school, who know Jupanese, ho
have become Japanese or have assimilated many
Japanese traits, hose lives have been blessed by
the proteetion und happiness iven by the cods.
On the other hand, those persons who are iiliterate
and have few of the churacteristies of  upanese
have little protecvion From the oas nd ure fur
less happy than the lommer. uods have u vust
world-view and can see into the future, a thousand,
ten-thousand years. at the time Taiwan became
Japanese, the temple gods, with foresight,
determined the course which the people of Taiwan
must follow. From the standpoint of protecting
the race, they determined that this people should
live as a Japanese people, that this was the
road they must travel. Thus the gods, protecting
the Formosan people as Japanese, have built
the society which exists today.
 god who guards a nation and a people as
Japanese can be no other than a Japanese god.
Then the gods of the Formosan temples are Japanese
gods. Forty years ago they entered into the
pantheon where dwell the many cods of Japan.
Thus it is the people who have fallen behind their
gods in their failure yet to becone true Japanese;
it must be said that this is truly a grievous
thing which has been done to the gods. Further-
more, to worship these gods of Japan with the
forms of a Chinese temple is truly an act of
insult to them.
Thus the abolition of the old temples was
the will and order of the gods.
Simultaneously with the abolition of the
temples, religious organizations in Chureki-gun,
such as saishi kogyo and so-ko-kai are to be liquidated.
An annual income of ¥5l,000, which will be applied
to social education and ko-min-ka activities, is
expected through liquidation of the temples and
religious organizations.
Yachiyo Village
Within Chureki-gun a model village is to be
established

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
established, to enable young Formosans to "escape
from traditional society" in order to realize
the ideals of rationalized agriculture and social
education.
applications for entrance into the
new villuge "Yachio" were received during the
first two weeks of Oetober.
hose selected will
be given two months training; only young men with
a creditable record during this training period
will be admitted to the village, which will open
January 1. Rules and regulations for the model
village are as follows:
1
1. rea of the village: 150 ko (359.5 acres)
arable land: 2.5 ko
1 household: other
5 ko
3.0 ko
2. Population: 50 households. Ten new
households will be admitted during
1940; 5 additional ones are to be
admitted each year thereafter.
3. Capital needed for the purchase of land,
construction of houses and all needed
equipment is expected to amount to a
total of ¥600,000. This investment
will be cooperative and funds are
expected from liquidation of temples
and religious societies.
4. Use of Formosan Chinese dialects is
prohibited. Villagers are selected
only from graduates of the Chureki
National Rural School or members of
provincial young people's associations.
Even in private life, only the Japanese
language will be permitted.
5. Since the language of the village must be
Japanese, marriages will be permitted
only with girls who are graduates of
primary sohool or a "national language
training sohool" A special "go-between"
organization is expected to be provided.
6.
Villagers must wear uniforms. Those
designed for the women are of Japanese
style
1 1 ko = 2.397 acres.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
style, similar to those found in
rural districts in Japan Proper:
"mombe", or kimono worn with a full
trousers-like garment and leggings.
7. Names of all villagers will be rendered
in the Japanese style.
8. A "fumily" in the village will be
limited to inelude only wife und chiliren.
9. Children will be given instruction
in a separate school to be set up in
the village. They may even be admitted
to a Japanese primary school.
10. architecture of houses will be Japanese.
11. Since the object in establishing the
village is to separate its inhabitants
from ordinary Formosan society, an effort
will be made to make it self-sufficient
and prevent any necessity for contact
with other Lormosan Chinese. In addition
to the shrine and shrine garden, special
recreational facilities and cooperative
buying establishments will be provided.
Rice land in the area of the new village is
said to yield an average of 5,000 kin per ko in
the first planting and 4,500 kin per ko in the
1
second planting. Possible savings of tenant
farmers are estimated at from £200 to ¥500 per
year. Agricultural profits are to be divided
into 1) ordinary profits and 2) profits through
rationalized management. The latter will be used
to purchase land, so that the ideal of a village
of independent farmers may be attained. Modern
cultivation and land improvement methods are
expected to increase the rice yield per acre, and
contribute to the extraordinary profits "through
rationalized management". Independence is expected
to
1 1 ko = 2.397 aores; 100 kin = 138.277 1bs.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
to be achieved in twenty years, such profits being
estimated at ¥55 per household in the first year
and increasing progressively to an estimated
750 at the end of the twentieth year.
It is impousible to predict the success of
such un experiment. It is the first in ivan
and the Japanese hope that it vill be the forerunner
of a movement which will eventually reform the
rural communities of the entire island. so many
racial, social, religious, and economic factors
are involved that too optimistic an attitude would
not appear justified. Certainly the experiment
is an exceedingly interesting one from the
sociological standpoint, and a study of the village
five years from now might be significant.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
VI. THE PROBLEM OF THE ABORIGINES
A special problem in "Japanization" is created
by the presence in Taiwan of more than 150,000
aborigines, or Takasagozoku as they ure popularly
1
called.
as recently s l930  sericus insurrection
broke out mone the suvages in the aistrict of
Musha resultinc in the m ssuere of 107 Jupenese
men, women, and children.
There have, however,
been no fatalities since 1934 and the results of
police administration and pacification are said to
be satisfactory.
dministration
Although there are numerous ethnological
classifications, the aborigines, for administrative
purposes, fall into two classes: plains dwellers,
and inhabitants of savage administrative districts.
The former are considered assimilated into the
Formosan population and receive no distinctive
treatment. The latter are outside ordinary legal
administration, live in segregated districts, and
are completely subordinate to police authority.
The map shows the numbers of "free" aborigines
and those subjeot to police administration as well
2
as the distribution of tribes. It is noted that
the mi tribe, which inhabits the east coast, is
considered assimilated but that with the exception
of
1 "Takasago" is a name applied to Taiwan by Japanese
during the l6th century, after a harbor in Japan
of the same name, noted for its beautiful soenery
(in what is now Hyogo-ken, at the mouth of the
Kako river). This name is preferable to the word
baniin (人 ) "savage", which has a derogatory
oonnotation.
2
All statistios relating to aborigines are taken
from the l938 edition or Taimen Jiio, published
by the Government General.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
DISTRIBUTION *OF SAVAGES IN TAIWAN
N
CHINA
&
E
TAMSUI
KEBLUNG
s
O
TAIHOKU
CHANNEL
SHINCHIKU
CHIKUNAN
SHINCHIKU
sue
BYORITSU
FORMOSAN
MT.DA
Mt Hx
TAICHU
OIWAKE
TAIHU
M
KARENKO
MT. HIGA
MT. SHIMORANZA
2
12,577F
PESCADORES
M
ME DAI SUIKY
O KAGI
0
MTU
MT. KWANZAN
TAINAN
(12,030)
TAINAN
AITO
ANPING
SCALE-
2BMUES TO I INN
28 MILES
PHEIT
TAITO
TAKAO
SAVAGE POPULATION
PREPAREO BY
“▲”
"B" Total
TAN KO NENG
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
36,598
62 36,660
TAIHONU, TANMÁN.
3 1,566D
17,609
63 17,678
2 2,204
,332 44,316
50,058 50,058
1,729
50.9814.5
Kotosho or
Botel Tobago Island
administration

=== Page 139 === (confidence 1.00)
-46-
of 9,332 members of the Paiwan tribe, very few
representatives of other tribes are free from
administrative restriction.
The following toble shows the numbers of
villages, households, na persons, classified
as "plains dwellers" und  inhabitants of savage
districts".
.It is noted that all plains dwellers
are not "free" and that some inhabitants of savage
districts are considered outside administrative
control.
No. of
No. of
No. of
villages
households inhabitants
Plains dwellers
Under police
administration
21
1,079
6,454
Outside police
administration
7.858
59.245
Total
21
8,937
65,699
Savage districts
Under police
administration
408
16,233
88,231
Outside police
administration
173
325
Total
408
16,406
88,556
GRAND TOTAL
429
25,343
154,255
General supervision over savage administration
in Taiwan is exercised by a "Bureau of aborigines
ffairs" within the Police affairs Section of the
Government General. Police officers selected
for work in the savage districts are responsible
to

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-47-
to local "bureaus of savage affairs" within the
police organs of the county and province. The
numbers of police offices und personnel engaged
in savage administrution  re indicated in the
followin; tuble:
Police administration of Savage Districts(1937)
..dministrative offices ......
520
Personnel
Chief inspectors
21
Assistant inspectors
53
Police officers ...
1,945
..ssistant police officers
3,172
Physicians
37
5,228
The policeman in a savuge village fills a
unique position. Not only is he guardian of
the law, but teacher, counsellor, economic and
agricultural advisor, often doctor and religious
guide. His aim is to educate the aborigines in
Japanese ideals, to discourage old customs and
traditions, in short to carry out, to the best
of his ability, the process of ko-min-ka.
Difficulties have occurred in the past due to
offense given the savages through the policemen's
relations with native women. In general, however,
officers assigned to the special work of savage
administration seem to have done creditable work.
Education
In april, 1938, 78.8% of those savage children
of sohool age were said to be in attendance. 185
schools were maintained in the administrative districts.
Graduates

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
Graduates of the schools (a four year primary
course) were numbered at 18,691.
Since 1936 the police huve increased their
efforts to promote use of the Japunese lunguege;
"national lan:utge treinin cchools" similur
to those provided for the Formosans, nave been
established.
It is stateu that approximately
29% of the aborigines are able to understand and
speak simple Japanese.
The percentage is highest
among the Tayals (35.9%) and lowest among the Yami
of Botel Tobago Island (6%).
Educational activities are of course concentrated
on youth.
Young Men's ssociations are expected
to stimulate the study of Jupanese, although it
is realized that many years will be required before
the Takasago (especially the mountain dwellers) can
be considered Japanized.
Social Reform
The Taiwan Government has long followed the
polioy of removing the aborigines fran their remote
mountain villages to homes on the plains, where
they can be more easily guarded and here they can
learn productive agricultural pursuits.
Clashes
between savages and policemen have occurred in the
past as a result of this policy.
However, many
"removals" have been carried out and the plan is
being persistently pursued.
The agrioulturel contribution of the aborigines
is

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
-49-
is summarized in the following statistics, as
of 1938:
Rice fields
1
Cultivated area
3,192 ko
Rice production (1937)
29,716 koku
(this is stated to be un increuse of
,496 koku over 1956)
Livestock
Hogs
30,769 head
Nater buffalo
8,296
Cattle
3,730
Mountain goats
3.235
Total
46,030
Sericulture
Production 1937
¥57,464
Other crops 1937
Sugar
area
501 ko
production value ....¥162,675
The Goverinent hopes to eradicate all trace
of the ancient customs of the aborigines.
more primitive peoples still retain their traditional
costumes, but village dances and festivals are
prohibited. artisans of the Paiwan tribe are no
longer allowed to carve the wooden figures which
represented one of the few primitive crafts of
Taiwan to possess artistic value. Fortunately
several scholars in the Imperial University of
Taihoku have done extensive research in the origins,
history, and customs of the aborigines, and are
endeavoring to preserve examples of their dying
culture.
When Christian missionaries came to Taiwan
in the latter part of the 19th century they did
considerable evangelistio work among the savages.
It
1 1 ko = 2.397 aores; 1 koku = 5.11902 bushels.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
-50-
It is said that many assimilated aborigines
still profess the Christian religion.
However,
the propagation of religions is prohibited in
administrative districts.
An instance is known
of a member of the yal tribe who, hevine been
educated in the Tuiho u seminary, ma inta ined by
the Canadian Presbyteriun Mission, is now in
prison due to his having conducted religious
work among Tayal people living in administrative
districts.
This young man had been sent to work
among the ami, who are considered assimilated and
suffer no religious restrictions.
His work
among the Tayals had been entirely of a personal
nature.
The reason given for his arrest was that
he failed to show proper respect to the "god shelf"
or Shinto shrine kept in his own home.
The Government hopes that the aborigines will
soon become economically more productive.
labor shortage in Taiwan might be relieved to some
extent if the savages were satisfactory as factory
laborers. So far, their temperament seems to be
unsuited for such work. Use of the Takasago in
the port construction and industrial projects at
Karenko was suggested. It was concluded that
they would be capable to do road or clearing work
in mountain districts but could not be used as
dook or construction laborers.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
-51-
VII.
THE FUTURE OF KO-MIN-KA
success of Ko-min-ka
The youth of Taiwan are being educuted as
Japanese.
The language of the schoolroom is
Jupanese, althou h the lun uage of the home rema ins
Chinese.
The young Formosun is drilled in the
precepts of the Yamato spirit (Yamato-damashii)
and is urged to forget his past.
This he undoubtedly
does, especially since he realizes that economic
advantages will depend upon the degree of his
Japanization.
Chinese customs and religions are gradually
being replaced and a younger generation which
understands nothing of such customs will not resist
their passing.
Needless suppression of minor
oustoms and rites, such as burning gilt papers and
presenting puppet plays, will continue to irritate..
The spread of the Japanese language will continue,
although it may be many years before mothers can be
"mobilized" to use only Japanese to their babes in
arms.
Compulsory education, to be effective from
1943, will speed up the process of language learning.
Certainly rural districts will be the last to change
their language habits and it takes vivid imagination
to pioture the time when one can ask directions in
Japanese of the farmer in the field or on the mountain
path.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
-52-
path. Knowledge of Japanese will of course be
a requisite for all economic advancement; through
necessity it will be the language of the educated,
but many generations must puss berore it becomes
1
the language or the people.
One cannot judge how complete and thorough
the Japanization of the people of Taiwan will become.
There are indications that it will be principally a
surface manifestation. The Formosan Chinese
naturally resent the domination of the Ja panese
and the attitude of superiority behind the domination.
The intelligent classes, although realizing fully
that all advantage lies in Japanization, may
nevertheless continue to harbor a fundamental
dissatisfaction. lthough rebellion is inconceivable,
Japan cannot be said to have achieved in Taiwan the
"brotherhood union of peoples" which is sometimes
cited as a particularly meritorious characteristic
of Japanese policy toward the Chinese.
Economic Position of the Formosan Chinese
The Formosan who graduates from ko-gakko
(elementary school for Formosan Chinese only) finds
it exoeedingly difficult to enter middle school.
lthough there is no open discrimination between
Japanese and Formosan examinees, the undue emphasis
placed
1  recent article in the Taiwan Jiho, monthly magazine
published by the Government General, criticizes the
polioy of instruoting the Formosans only in standard
and literary Japanese. The author states that until
the Formosans learn and use everyday, colloquial
Japanese, their new language will not be a living
medium of expression and the process of Japanization
will be retarted. Taiwan Jihe, November, 1939.
"The Position of Colloquial Language in the
Propagation of Japanese" by Mutsuo Yamazaki.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
-53-
placed on Japanese language acts as a discriminating
factor.
The result is that only those Formosan
students with un unusual grasp of written und
spoken Jupanese re umittod to the miudle senool.
Inaue uacy of sencol  ellibios lso operates to
eliminate worthy uoplicunts. It is mierstood
that Japanese students ve no difficulty in ob-
taining admittance.
Once the stu pluced auong Jupanese,
he becomes conscious of a sociul distinction.
Teachers state that "incidents" between Formosans
and Japanese are not rare.
However, the full consciousness of his
disadvantageous position does not come until
graduation. If he has finished the university,
he is prepared to assume a professional position.
He finds that all such positions ure held by Japanese.
Unless his training is medical or agricultural or
he can find employment in Japan Proper, he must be
content to accept work of a menial type. It may
be significant that only one professor in Taihoku
Imperial University is Formosan Chinese and he is a
"department" of one, since no Japanese instructor
would serve under a Formosan Chinese, so strong is
the "race" consciousness.
pparently no such discrimination is felt in
Japan Proper. A Formosan is accepted there as a
Japanese and no further questions are asked.
Japan's

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-54-
Japan's activities in China have attracted
many Formosans who, with knowledge of both Japanese
and Chinese, find opportunities open to them. Many
important official positions in the new local
governments of moy nd nton are suid to be filled
by Formosan Chinese.
Jourses in mdarin Uhinese
are unusually ponular at the present time and
numerous night schools are flourishing where
Formosans hope to prepare themselves for careers
in China.
Formosans who have received the advantages
of a Japanese education will naturally expect
opportunities in return.
If such cannot be found
in Taiwan, nor in China or Japan, discontent may
increase.
However, the Formosan temperament is
not aggressive; the inevitable will doubtless be
accepted.
"Old Formosa Hands" remark that this
temperament often finds devious ways of achieving
desired ends in spite of cfficial control.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
-55-
VIII.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
The conclusions drawn in this report are not
definitive.
They are based on observations in
Taiwan during the period of a six months assignment,
general reading, und conversations with Japanese,
Formosan Chinese, and foreigners, the latter including
missionaries, teachers, and business people.
Summary
1) Self-government in Taiwan is limited to
participation in city, town, and village government.
Suffrage is granted to male subjects of 25 years or
more, who may vote for members of city, town, or
village assemblies, one half of whose members are
elective.
Elections are held every four years.
The percentage of Formosan members of city and
provincial assemblies is small.
2) A national campaign, accelerated since the
beginning of the China Incident, has been undertaken
to spread the use of the Japanese language.
45% of
the Formosan population is said to possess a knowledge
of Japanese, although this figure may be an exaggeration
and may indicate only a superficial knowledge.
Compulsory education is to be in effect from l943,
whioh will make a six year primary course obligatory.
Mucation for Japanese and Formosans is separate
through the primary school, and comparatively few
Formosans attend middle school, high school, or the
university. A large percentage of Formosan
university

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
-56-
university students prepare for a medical career,
since this alone offers much promise.
3) abolition of traditional Chinese customs
is a policy of the Government.
This movement has
been given impetus by the China Iueident nd the
campaign for "spirituel mobilizesion started in
Japan.
Various activities, which serve the dual
purpose of Japanization and contribution to the
propagation of hostilities in China, are encouraged.
4) The traditional religions in Taiwan,
symbolized by the byo or Formosan temple, are
discouraged and an effort is being made to substitute
the Japanese shinto Shrine.
Christian missionaries
are experiencing increasing difficulties in carrying
on their work.
5) The psychology behind the Japanese efforts
at social and religious reformation is illustrated
in the movement to set up a model district and a
model village, in which the principles of ko-min-ka
are to be applied.
6) Japanization of the aborigines, of which
there are more than 150,000, presents special problems.
dministration is carried out through police authority
whioh seeks to control the life of the savages,
inorease their economio usefulness and teach them
Japanese ideals.
Conclusions
1) Formosan resistance to Japanese authority
is inconceivable, not only because of the rigidity
of

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
of Government control, but due also to the
passive temperament of the people.
2) The Japanese will eventually be successful
in renovating the reli ious nu sociul life of
the people, ut lo ut e ar  outwurd uppeurnces
ure concerned.
hether younger generations will
accept Japanization sinccrely und wholeheartedly
is open to uestion.
3) Use of the Japanese lunguage will increase
and will became indispensable to success in most
trades and professions, and to participation in
civic life.
4) Business and professional opportunities
for Formosans will remain limited in Taiwan, due
to the monopoly of positions of responsibility
by Japanese.
5) Formosans may find increasing opportunities
to participate in Japanese construction activities
in China, due to their special qualifications.
6) Finally, it may be remarked that Taiwan
is regarded by the Japanese as an ideal administration
for subjects of the Chinese race.
Writers refer
frequently to Taiwan as a "Paradise" and urge
particularly the inhabitants of South China to
ponder the happiness and prosperity enjoyed by
the people of Taiwan. It is true that the
administration of Taiwan may suggest courses of
action to a Japan preparing to establish on the
continent/"new order" for the Chinese.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
-58-
NOTE ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF TATWAN
The chart prepared for this report shows the
various administrative organs of the village, town,
city, county, und province, nd their relationships.
It should be noted thut ltiwan is divided, for
purposes of udministrution, into five provinces
and three prefectures (cho).
The cho, Karenko,
Taito, and Boko (Pescadores), are of relatively
small area and population. Local administration
within them is similar to the system shown in the
chart, in the case of the provinces. Election of
half the members of town and village assemblies
has been established only recently; the elections
held November 22, 1939, were the first to be held
in the prefectures.
The following differences are noted in the
administrative organization of the prefectures as
compared to that in the provinces:
1.
The rank of the Governor of a prefecture
is lower than that of the Governor of
a province.
2.
The powers of the prefectural assembly
are advisory only, whereas the provincial
assembly may make decisions.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
-59-
GLOSSARY OF JAPANESE TERMS
USED IN THE REPORT
皇民化
KO-MIN-KA
Japanization; literally
change-to-Imperial-people
町會
CHOKAI
Neighborhood association;
"cho" is a district within
a city or town.
保甲
HO-KO
ncient Uhinese rural
administrative districts.
A "ko" is approximately 10
households; a "ho" is ten
"ko".
保正
HO-SEI
Head of the "ho"
壯丁團
SO-TEI-DAN
Formosan young men's associa-
tion, organized to assist
police administration.
青年團
SEI-NEN-DAN
Young men's association of
Japanese origin, organized
for patriotic purposes.
SEI-NEN KUN-RN-DAN 青年言訓練Young men's training association
國語
KOKU-GO
National language, or Japanese.
KOKU-GO KO-SHU-SHO 圖語講閣所
National language training
school
小學校
SHO-GAKKO
Primary schools (for Japanese
only)
公學校
KO-GAKKO
Primary schools (for Formosans
only)
I-SHI KO-GYO 祭祀公業
Religious Observance association,
or traditional family organization
for worship of anoestors.
神明會
SHIN-MEI-KI
Sacred Light Society, or
religious association of persons
with some common bond.
祖公會
SO-KO-KI
ancestor nssociation. Society
of persons bearing same family
name.
寺廟，廟
J-YO or BYO
Taiwan temple. Usually a
mixture of Buddhism, Taoim,
Confucianism.
M-AGo-zoKU 高砂族
borigines of Taiwan.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
SOURCES OF INFORMATION
(All publioations are in Japanese unless otherwise noted)
Books
Taiwan Government General, Taiwan Jijo (Conditions in
Taiwan), Ta ihoku, December,
1938.
Taiwan Government General, Shoku-in-roku (Directory of
Government Personnel), Taihoku,
July,1939.
Taiwan Government General, Taiwan Gensei Yoran (Summary of
Present Conditions in Taiwan),
Taihoku, .ugust, 1939.
Taiwan Government General, Bureau of Aboriginal ffairs,
Report on the Control of the
Aborigines in Formosa, Taihoku.
1911. In English.
Taihoku Imperial University, Seigakuka Kenkyu Nempo (Annals
of Political Research), Taihoku,
1936.
Taihoku Imperial University, Taihoku Teikoku Daigaku Ichiran
(Directory of the University),
Taihoku, September, 1938.
Taihoku City Education association, Ko-gakko Shushinka Kyoju
Saimoku (Teacher's Manual-Morals
Course for Primary Schools for
Formosans) Taihoku, June, 1937.
Taiwan Education association, Shin Kokugo Kyohon (New National
Language Readers), Taihoku, June,
1939.
Nakayama, Kaoru
Komin Saho Tokuhon (a Primer of
National Conduct) Taihoku,
October, 1939.
del Re, rundell (Professor of mglish Literature in Taihoku
Imperial University)Lo sviluppo dell'istruzione nell
Isola di Formosa (The development
of education in the Island of
Formosa), Reprint from Rivista
Pedagogica, Rome, 1935. In Italian.
del Re, Arundell
Linguistics and anthropology with
Special Reference to Formoss
Undated manuscript. In Inglish.
Magazine rtioles

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Magazine Articles
Taiwan Jiho (Taiwan News), monthly magazine published
by the Taiwan Government General, July-august,
1939. Study of Rural Life in Taiwan, by
Michiyoshi Kajiwara, Agricultural Expert,
Taiwan Government General.
Ibid, September, 1939. The New Development of a
National Spiritual Movement in Taiwan, by
Shosei Shimada, of the Bureau of Education,
Taiwan Governnent General.
Ibid, November, 1939. The Way to Realization of
Ko-min-ka, by Jiro Morioka, Director General,
Taiwan Government General.
Ibid.
The Position of Colloquial Language in the
Propagation of Japanese, by Mutsuo Yamazaki,
Principal of Mizuho Primary School (for
Formosans), Taichu province.
Aisho (Book-lover), a literary periodical published
in Taihoku.
April 8, 1938.Introducing
Record of Taiwan Customs", by Saisuke Saito.
Newspapers
Honan Jiho, weekly, Taihoku.
Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo, daily, Taihoku. (Unofficial
Covernment organ)
Taiwan Shinminpo, daily, Ta ihoku. (Edited and owned by
Formosan Chinese)
Taiwan Nippo, daily, Tainan.
Taiwan Shimbun, daily, Taichu.
Miscellaneous
Much of the background material for this report
has been gained from informal conversations with
foreigners long resident in Taiwan (missionaries,
teachers, business people), Formosan Chinese, and
Japanese. Some information regarding the aborigines
was furnished by Dr. Nenezo Utsushigawa, Head of the
Department of Ethnology, Taihoku Imperial University,
and by Dr. Erin Asai, Professor in the same department.
Some researoh was done by Mr. Chuhei Matsuo, Consulate
Interpreter.
File No. 840
JXB/thh
In quintuplicate to Department of State.
1 copy to Eabassy, Tokyo.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Carbon Cop

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
March 8 1940
Gerald Warner, Esquire,
American Consul,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
Sir:
The Consulate's report dated November 27, 1939
entitled "Keminka" or the Japanination of the People
f Taiwan prepared by Mr. John K. Emmerson has been
894A.00/27
accorded a rating of EXCELLENT by the Department.
An instruotion to the foregoing effeot is being
sont to the American Consul General at Osaka where
Mr. Emmerson is now stationed.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of state:
 Joke K
π
BRECKINRIDGE LONG
Jane
CC
goup
F
CRN
1
MAR 8 1940

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.90)
American Consul Jeneral,
Osaka, Japan.
si8:
It is a pleasure to inform you that a report pre-
pared by Mr. John X. Emmerson while on assignment to
Tatheku on November 37, 1939 entitled "Kominke" er the
dansaisatien of the Peonle of Taimn has been accorded
& rating of EXCELLENT by the Department. The report
is extreerdinarily thorough and gives & pioture of the
situation in Taiwan whioh is of value to the Department.
The sontents of thie instruotion should be brought
to the notiee of Mz. Emmerson.
Very truly yours,
Fer the Seoretary of state:
K
BRECKINRIDGE LONG
40
8m8
