894A.5151 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Monetary System. Coinage. Currency. Mint. Bullion., Formosa. Taiwan, Exchange., January 19, 1937 (File 941)
ID: 894A.5151-941   Pages: 36   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.5151-financial-conditions-budget-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.88)
RECEIVED
894a.5151
894A.5151/1
FILE
F/G

LEGAL ADVISER
FEB 24 1937
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 24 1937
894A.5151/1

RECEIVED
894a.5151
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151

RECEIVED
894A.5151/1

FEB 24 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

FEB 25 1937

I have the honor to enclose herewith, in quintuplicate, copies of the Taiwan Government General Official Gazette No. 2,864 dated December 1, 1936, containing the text of the amendments, effective December 1, 1936, to the Regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges in Taiwan and also the text of the amendments to the Regulations Governing the Enforcement of the Regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges. Translations of the two above-mentioned amendatory laws which have been made by Interpreter Chuhei Matsuo of this Consulate are likewise enclosed.

Since it appears that no translations have previously been submitted covering the original law and regulations which are amended by the laws cited in the preceding paragraph, translations of the original laws are also enclosed herewith. These translations have likewise been made by Mr. Matsuo.

Taiwan laws and regulations governing foreign exchange control are reportedly based on similar statutes

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

statutes enacted in Japan proper. Nonetheless, the Taiwan laws, and regulations promulgated thereunder, have been separately enacted and are administered by the Government General of Taiwan.

Respectfully yours,

Edward S. Maney,
American Consul.

Enclosures:

1. Taiwan Government General Official Gazette, No. 2,864 of December 1, 1936. (5 copies)
2. Translation of Taiwan Government General Order, No. 97 of December 1, 1936. (5 copies)
3. Translation of Taiwan Government General Order No. 98 of December 1, 1936. (5 copies)
4. Translation of Taiwan Government General Order No. 57 of April 26, 1933.
5. Translation of Taiwan Government General Order No. 60 of May 1, 1933. (5 copies).

Original and 4 copies to Department;
1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

File No. 851.51/804.4
ESM/tkh

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
(Translated from Taiwan Government General Official Gazette No. 2,846 dated December 1, 1936, by Interpreter Chuhei Matsuo, American Consulate, Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan)

Taiwan Government General Order No. 97.

The following amendment is made in the regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges, Taiwan Government General Order No. 57 of the year 1933.

December 1, 1936. SEIZO KOBAYASHI,
Governor General of Taiwan.

The following paragraph is added to Article 1:

Any one exporting gold coin, gold bullion, alloy of gold, or articles made chiefly of gold shall, when making export declaration or mailing through post office, report to the Governor General of Taiwan through the Customs or the post office.

Article 2. Transactions in foreign currencies or foreign exchanges for the purpose of profit from fluctuations of exchange rates on Japanese currency, other than for commercial needs or other actual needs, are forbidden (by foreign exchanges are meant bills of exchange from Japan to foreign countries or from foreign countries to Japan, checks, payment order, telegraphic transfer and postal money order from Japan to foreign countries and from foreign countries to Japan, excepting yen exchange between Japan and territory where Japanese currency has force of circulation), and also sale and purchase of yen exchange destined from a foreign country to a foreign country is forbidden.

From item 1 of Article 3 the following "(excepting cases where a person engaged in money exchange purchases foreign currency for purpose of his business)" is eliminated, and Items 2 and 3 are amended as follows:

2. Sale of foreign exchange on Japanese currency to a person other than foreign exchange banks, or for purpose of offsetting exchange purchased.

3. Sale and purchase of yen exchange which is a foreign exchange on foreign currency.

The following proviso is added to Article 4.

Provided, however, that the amount of currency or foreign currency which can be carried to a foreign country or remitted thereto shall not be more than the

=== Page 4 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

the equivalent of Yen 1,000 excepting cases prescribed in Item 12.

Items 1, 5, 7 and 8 of the same article are amended as follows:

1. When necessary for exports of goods from Japan (excepting negotiable instruments; the same is meant hereinafter. By negotiable instruments in this regulation are meant public bonds, debentures, shares or interest coupons of public bonds and debentures of Japan and a foreign country) and imports of goods into Japan.

5. When necessary to make payment within six months as a fulfilment of obligation in accordance with laws and regulations of Japan and foreign countries.

7. When it is necessary for a traveler to foreign countries to carry with him the equivalent of not more than Yen 10,000 as traveling expenses necessary for a period less than one year.

8. When necessary for remitting to a person traveling or staying abroad traveling expenses, salary, wages, allowances, schooling expenses, or other similar expenses in an amount equivalent to less than Yen 10,000, or when necessary to remit the equivalent of less than Yen 10,000 to a family residing abroad as living expenses necessary for less than one year.

The following item is added to the said article:

13. Excepting cases coming under each of other items, when necessary to remit or pay the equivalent of less than Yen 1,000 in a whole year.

From Item 3 of Article 5 the following "(including payment in accordance with payment order which corresponds to foreign exchange)" is eliminated? (sic), and the said item is made item 4; and the following item is added after item 2:

Item 3. Remitting proceeds of draft for collection, destined from a territory where Japanese currency has a force of circulation to a place where this regulation is in force, to the said territory.

In paragraph 1 of Article 6 the following "(By foreign currency negotiable instruments are meant interest coupons expressed in foreign currency on bonds and debentures of Japan or a foreign country; and bonds, debentures, and shares of Japan or a foreign country expressed in foreign currency. The same is meant hereinafter)" is amended to read:

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

"(By foreign currency negotiable instruments are meant interest coupons expressed in foreign currency on bonds and debentures of Japan or a foreign country; and bonds, debentures and shares of Japan or a foreign country expressed in foreign currency; and registered bonds, debentures, or shares expressed in foreign currency shall be considered as foreign currency negotiable instruments. The same is meant hereinafter.)" Item 2 of the same article is amended as follows:

"In the case of acquisition in this country of foreign currency negotiable instruments existing in Japan on July 9, 1932, foreign currency negotiable instruments imported under a license in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1 of Article 12 of this regulation or paragraph 1 of Article 3 of the Regulations Governing Prevention of Flight of Capital from Taiwan, Government General Order No. 34 of 1932, or of foreign currency negotiable instruments imported without permission in accordance with the provisions of Item 1, 3 or 4 of paragraph 1 of Article 12 of this regulation, and in the case of acquisition of foreign currency negotiable instruments by a foreigner with funds possessed abroad, the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not apply. The same shall apply to acquisition of foreign currency negotiable instruments in this country imported in accordance with the provisions of orders based on Capital Flight Prevention Law or Foreign Exchange Control Law corresponding to the provisions given above."

In Article 7 the following "(excepting claim belonging to foreign exchange and foreign currency negotiable instruments)" is amended to read: (excepting foreign exchange and foreign currency negotiable instruments. The same is meant hereinafter)".

In Article 10 "debentures expressed in foreign currency" is amended to read "local bond or debentures expressed in foreign currency".

Article 11. Without permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to acquire a letter of credit (including travel checks) in the territory in which this order is in force, excepting the following cases:

1. When necessary for importation of commodities into Japan, or a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation.

2. When necessary for exportation of commodity from Japan.

3. When necessary for making payment of insurance premiums.

4. When acquiring a traveler's letter of credit in the equivalent of less than Yen 10,000 in total as travel expenses of a person traveling abroad within two weeks prior to scheduled date of departure.

5.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

5. When acquiring a traveler's letter of credit for the purpose of carrying or sending travel expenses or other allowances received from government.

6. When necessary for supplying to a person traveling or residing abroad travel expenses, salaries, wages, allowances, school expenses, or other similar expenses necessary for a period of less than one year in the equivalent of less than Yen 10,000.

Article 12. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to import or export negotiable instruments, excepting, however, the following cases:

1. When importing for purpose of receiving payment of negotiable instruments having place of payment in Japan, within three months before date of payment or after the date of payment.

2. When a shareholder, director, holder of bonds, or holder of debentures, exports or imports shares, bonds or debentures for purpose of sending them to a company or government or public offices concerned or their financial agents, such shares, bonds or debentures being required to be presented in accordance with laws and regulations or articles of association of Japan and foreign countries as an obligation or for execution or security of rights.

3. In connection with the presentation of the shares, bonds or debentures mentioned in the preceding item, when necessary to export or import for return or delivery of such shares, bonds or debentures from companies, government or public offices concerned or their financial agents.

4. When necessary to export or import for the purpose of sending shares, bonds or debentures for delivery to persons who have subscribed to shares, bonds or debentures.

5. When exporting negotiable instruments expressed in Japanese currency to a territory where Japanese currency has a force of circulation or when importing such instruments from the said territory, excepting, however, exportation of interest coupons of bonds or debentures.

A person who has imported or exported negotiable instruments shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan within two weeks in accordance with the procedure separately prescribed, provided, however, that a person traveling to a foreign country shall submit such a report before his departure.

Article 13.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

Article 13. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to export goods without drawing a foreign draft on the whole or a part of the value thereof, excepting, however, the following cases:

1. When exporting to a territory where Japanese currency has a force of circulation.
2. When exporting as samples or for gift.
3. When exporting for consignment sales, or when forwarding or returning to a foreign country goods imported for consignment sales.
4. When proceeds of goods have been received in this country before exportation of the goods, or when exporting for the purpose of exchanging for goods for which proceeds have already been received in this country.
5. When there is a contract guaranteeing payment in this country of the proceeds within two months after exportation of goods, or when proceeds are received from a buyer in this country.
6. When exporting for the purpose of applying to payments such as sales commission necessary for exportation of goods from this country or for importation of goods into this country, compensation for damages, or other expenses.
7. When exporting goods whose nature is such that proceeds have to be determined after inspection and receipt.
8. When exporting through mail goods valued less than Yen 1,000, or when exporting via railway under cash on delivery system.
9. When exporting goods valued less than Yen 20,000 throughout a month under the contract that proceeds be collected and immediately remitted to this country under a draft for collection.
10. When exporting in accordance with requirements of government.
11. When exporting articles valued less than Yen 100.
12. Excepting cases coming under one of the preceding items, when it is impossible to draw a foreign draft, or when a foreign draft is not drawn in accordance with trade custom.

When a draft is drawn on a bank in this country on

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

on the basis of a letter of credit destined from a foreign country and is sold, or when proceeds are received by presenting shipping documents to a bank in this country, such an act shall be considered as having drawn a foreign draft.

Article 13. - 2. Any person exporting goods without drawing a foreign draft on the whole or a part of the value thereof or without drawing a yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation on the whole or a part of the value thereof shall make an export declaration in a manner prescribed elsewhere, or submit a report to the Governor General of Taiwan at the time of mailing, through the Customs or the post office concerned, excepting, however, the following articles:

1. Gifts for charity or relief purposes.
2. Articles exported by government.
3. Articles valued less than Yen 100.
4. Baggage, household effects, or ships supplies.

Any person who has not rendered the report mentioned in the preceding paragraph in view of his plan to draw a foreign draft or yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation shall without delay report to the Governor General of Taiwan in a manner prescribed elsewhere through the Customs or post office when it became impossible to draw such a draft after making export declaration or after mailing the articles. The same shall apply when a person, who has exported goods by drawing a foreign draft or yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation for the whole or a part of the value thereof, has reimbursed or bought back the draft drawn by him.

Article 14. Any person who exported goods or negotiable instruments without drawing a foreign draft or yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation for the whole or a part of the value thereof, or any other person who receives from a foreign country proceeds of the said goods or the negotiable instruments, shall recover the proceeds to this country within five months after arrival of the said goods or negotiable instruments at destination, deducting from the proceeds expenses incurred in a foreign country on the said goods or the negotiable instruments and such amount as has been applied to payment of proceeds of goods for importation into this country, excepting,

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-

excepting, however, cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

The application of the proceeds and condition of collections in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be reported to the Governor General of Taiwan covering every month not later than the 15th of the following month in a manner separately prescribed.

Article 15. Foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in this country, due date of which has arrived, shall be sold in this country within three months after such due date, or request for collection of proceeds shall be made, or payment thereof shall be received in this country, excepting, however, cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 16. In the case of foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in a foreign country, or profits or dividends on foreign currency negotiable instruments for which payment is to be received in a foreign country, due date of which has arrived, payment thereof shall be received within three months after the due date, or such profits or dividends shall be sold, excepting, however, cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

When foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in a foreign country were sold or when payments thereof were received, or when profits or dividends on foreign currency negotiable instruments were received in a foreign country, or when the right to receive them was sold, steps shall be taken to have the proceeds remitted to this country within two months after deducting expenses incurred in a foreign country regarding the foreign currency negotiable instruments, or profits or dividends of foreign currency negotiable instruments, excepting, however, cases where the total of such proceeds are less than the equivalent of Yen 1,000 or where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 17. Any bank desiring to engage in a foreign exchange business after December 1, 1936 in an office already existing or newly established shall obtain permission of the Governor General of Taiwan.

A bank which made a report up to November 30, 1936 to the effect that it would engage in a foreign exchange business, or a bank obtaining permission in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be called a "Foreign Exchange Bank", and the list of such offices engaged in foreign exchange business shall be given publicity by the Governor

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-

Governor General of Taiwan.

When a foreign exchange bank desires to discontinue foreign exchange business in the whole or a part of its offices, or when it desires to alter the name or location of office in which foreign exchange business is handled, a report shall be made beforehand to the Governor General of Taiwan, in which case the Governor General of Taiwan shall give publicity thereto.

Article 18. A foreign exchange bank requires no permission of the Governor General of Taiwan on the following transactions or acts regardless of the provisions of Articles 3, 6, 7 and 12:

1. Sale and purchase of foreign currencies at request of customers (including banks) or foreign exchanges (including those that correspond to foreign exchanges from the standpoint of the business of the foreign exchange banks).

2. Within the necessary extent in connection with the sale and purchase of foreign currencies or foreign exchanges in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, sale and purchase of foreign exchanges (including those that correspond to foreign exchanges from the standpoint of the business of the foreign exchange banks) or making remittances to a foreign country for the purpose of preparing capital.

3. Remitting to a foreign country proceeds of collection draft destined from a foreign country to a territory in which this regulation is in force.

4. To export foreign currency negotiable instruments for purpose of receiving payment thereof (including those requested by customers for collection) within three months before due date or after due date.

The provisions of Article 14 shall not apply to cases where a foreign exchange bank exports foreign currency negotiable instruments.

The provisions of Articles 15 and 16 shall not apply to a foreign exchange bank.

Article 19. A foreign exchange bank shall submit not later than the 15th of the following month to the Governor General of Taiwan detailed statements as prescribed separately concerning purchase and sale of foreign exchange (including those that correspond to foreign exchanges from the standpoint of the business of a foreign exchanges bank), sale and purchase of yen exchanges destined to

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-

to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation, handling of collection drafts, payment of drafts for remittances, issuance of letters of credit, etc. in each month.

A bank other than a foreign exchange bank shall, in accordance with the preceding paragraph, submit detailed statements concerning sale and purchase of yen exchange destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation, handling of collection drafts, payment of drafts for remittances, issuance of letter of credit, etc.

Article 20. A foreign exchange bank shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan within three days in a form prescribed separately daily amount of sale and purchase of foreign exchanges (including those that correspond to foreign exchanges from the standpoint of the business of a foreign exchange bank), and amount of sales and purchases on hand, provided, however, that reports shall be made to the Governor General of Taiwan, in a manner prescribed separately, by head office within three days on totals of every ten days covering such transactions in offices in foreign countries.

Article 20 - 2. A person who is engaged in sale and purchase of foreign currencies as an occupation (excepting banks) shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan not later than December 31, 1936 his offices where his business is carried on.

A person who desires to engage as an occupation in sale and purchase of foreign currencies after December 1, 1936 shall beforehand report to the Governor General of Taiwan offices where his business is to be carried on.

The person who has made the report, in accordance with the two preceding paragraphs, to the effect that he would as an occupation engage in sale and purchase of foreign currencies shall be called a money exchange merchant, and a change or abandonment of the office of his business shall be beforehand reported to the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 20 - 3. A money exchange merchant or a bank is not required to obtain permission of the Governor General of Taiwan regarding purchase of foreign currencies or foreign currency travel checks as an obligation, without regard to the provisions of Articles 3 and 7.

In Item 11, paragraph 1 of Article 23, "debentures" is amended to read "local bonds or debentures", and Item 7 is changed to Item 8, and items following are carried

=== Page 12 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-

carried down by order, and the following item is added after Item No. 6:

7. Purchase of a credit expressed in a foreign currency.

In Article 26 "amounts thereof" is amended to read: "in a manner prescribed separately", and the following paragraph is added to the same article:

The provisions of the preceding article shall not apply to a foreigner concerning other than a foreign exchange.

**Article 28.** When considered necessary the Governor General of Taiwan may designate a matter or a person and require a report other than prescribed in this regulation, or may exempt a report provided in this regulation.

**Supplemental regulation.**

This regulation shall take effect from the day of promulgation thereof.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 1.00)
(Translated from Taiwan Government General Official Gazette No. 2,846 dated December 1, 1936, by Interpreter Chuhei Matsuo, American Consulate, Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan)

Taiwan Government General Order No. 98.

The following amendment is made in the Regulations Governing Enforcement of the Regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges in Taiwan, Taiwan Government General Order No. 60, of the year 1933.

December 1, 1936. SEIZO KOBAYASHI,
Governor General of Taiwan.

From paragraph 1 of Article 3 the following "two weeks before scheduled date of shipment (in the case by mail two weeks before scheduled date of mailing)" is eliminated.

Item 2 of Article 7 is amended to read as follows:

2. Kind and amount of bill of exchange, and kind of foreign currency to be paid or received against the bill.

Item 7 of Article 9 is made Item 8, and Item 8 is made Item 9, and the following item is added after Item 6:

7. In the case of payment for another the method and scheduled time of collection of the proceeds.

In Article 13 "debentures" is amended to read "local bonds or debentures".

Item 8 of Article 15 is made Item 9, Item 9 is made Item 10, and the following item is added after Item 7:

8. In the case of negotiable instruments which are the object of sale and purchase, the method and scheduled time of settlement of the proceeds thereof.

Article 18. The following items shall be mentioned in an application for permission regarding non-collection or extension of collection period of proceeds of goods or negotiable instruments exported without accompanying draft for the whole or a part of the value thereof provided in the provisions of the proviso of paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the regulations.

1. Address, occupation, and name or business title of applicant.

2. When other person has done the procedure of export declaration or mailing, the address, occupation, and name or business title of such a person.

3.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

3. Address, occupation, and name or business title of consignee.

4. Name of goods for exportation, or name, quantity, and value of negotiable instruments for exportation, as well as amount of invoice.

5. Time of exportation and method of transportation.

6. Destination and time of arrival of goods or negotiable instruments for exportation.

7. Amount of non-collection, or amount requiring extension of period for collection.

8. In the case of extension of period for collection, estimated period and method of collection.

9. Reason for non-collection, and reason requiring extension of period for collection.

10. Other items for reference purpose.

Article 18. - 2. The following items shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning sale, request for collection, or extension of period for receiving payment for foreign currency negotiable instruments, etc. provided in Article 15 or the proviso of paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, and name or business title of applicant.

2. Name, quantity, and place where held, of foreign currency negotiable instruments.

3. Date of payment and amount of payment of foreign currency negotiable instruments or profit or dividend of foreign currency negotiable instruments.

4. Amount requiring extension of period.

5. Estimated time of receiving payment of proceeds of sale, collection, or other payments.

6. Reasons requiring extension of period.

7. Other items for reference purpose.

Article 18 - 3. The following items shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning non-collection

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

non-collection or extension of period for collection of proceeds of foreign currency negotiable instruments, etc. prescribed in the proviso of paragraph 2 of Article 16 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, and name or business title of applicant.

2. Name, quantity and place where held, of foreign currency negotiable instruments.

3. Time and amount of sale of or receipt of payment of foreign currency negotiable instruments or profit or dividend of foreign currency negotiable instruments.

4. Address, occupation, and name or business title of a person to whom sold or of payer.

5. Amount of non-collection or amount requiring extension of period for collection.

6. In the case of extension of period for collection, estimated time and method of collection.

7. Reason for non-collection or reason requiring extension of period for collection.

8. Other items for reference purpose.

Article 18 - 4. The following items shall be mentioned in the application for permission in cases where a person desires to engage in a foreign exchange business in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 17 of the regulations:

1. Address and business title of applicant.

2. Name and place of office in which the foreign exchange business is desired to be carried on.

3. Time of starting of the foreign exchange business in the office mentioned in the preceding item.

4. Reasons for engaging in foreign exchange business.

5. Other items for reference purpose.

Article 18 - 5. The following items shall be mentioned in the report provided in paragraph 3 of Article 17 of the regulations:

1. Address and business title of the bank submitting the report.

2.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

2. In the case of discontinuance of foreign exchange business, name and location of office; in the case of change of name or location, old and new names or old and new locations.

3. Time of discontinuance or change.

4. Reason requiring discontinuance or change.

5. Other items for reference purpose.

Article 18 - 6. The following items shall be mentioned in the report provided in paragraph 1 of Article 20 - 2 of the regulations:

1. Address, name or business title of the person submitting the report; in the case of person engaged also in other occupation, the said occupation.

2. When the person submitting the report is a juridical person, capital, names of investors, and amount of investment.

3. Name and location of office in which business is handled.

4. Time when business was started.

5. In the case of person having head office, branch office or other place of business or connections in a foreign country, name and location of such office.

6. Other items for reference purpose.

The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply in filling in the report provided in paragraph 2 of Article 20 - 2 of the regulations, and the provisions of the preceding article shall apply in filling in the report provided in paragraph 3 of the same article.

Article 20. Unless otherwise prescribed the detailed statement or report which shall be submitted to the Governor General of Taiwan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 1, paragraph 2 of Article 12, paragraph 1 or 2 of Article 13-2, Articles 19, 20, or 21 to 23 of the regulations, shall be made in duplicate in accordance with forms prescribed elsewhere and shall be submitted through the nearest office of the Bank of Taiwan excepting reports provided in paragraph 3 of Article 1, and paragraphs 2 of Article 13-2 of the regulations.

The report required to be submitted to the Governor

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

Governor General of Taiwan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 14 of the regulations shall be made out in a single copy in accordance with the form prescribed elsewhere and submitted direct.

In cases where the reporting in the prescribed forms in accordance with the procedure of the two preceding paragraphs is considerably interrupted due to business or other reasons, such circumstances may be brought before the Governor General of Taiwan, and in such a case the Governor General of Taiwan may prescribe a special procedure.

The report provided in paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the regulations shall be made out in accordance with the forms of reports provided in Article 23 of the regulations.

The report provided in paragraph 3 of Article 17 or Article 20-2 and the report provided in the preceding paragraph of the regulations shall be made out in duplicate and submitted through nearest office of the Bank of Taiwan.

The following paragraph is added to Article 22:

The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall apply to foreign currency negotiable instruments imported without permission in accordance with the provisions of Items 1, 3 or 4 of paragraph 1 of Article 12 of the regulations and for which a report had been made in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the same article, excepting, however, cases where the Governor General of Taiwan has informed the Bank of Taiwan to the effect that affixing of stamp could not be obtained.

The forms given elsewhere are revised as follows. (Note: Translation of forms omitted).

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Translated from Taiwan Government General Official
Attette Extra dated April 26, 1933 by Chuhei Matsuo,
Interpreter, American Consulate, Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan)

Taiwan Government Order No. 57.

The Regulations Governing Control of Foreign
Exchanges in Taiwan are hereby enacted as follows.

April 26, 1933. Kenzo Nakagawa, Governor General of Taiwan.

# REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTROL OF FOREIGN EXCHANGES IN TAIWAN.

## Article 1.
Exports of gold coin, gold bullion, alloy of gold, or articles made chiefly of gold are forbidden without permission of the Governor General of Taiwan.
Gold coin must not be melted down or destroyed.

## Article 2.
Transactions in foreign currencies or foreign exchanges for purpose of profits from fluctuations of exchange rates on Japanese currency, other than for commercial needs or other actual needs, are forbidden (by foreign exchanges are meant bills of exchange from Japan to foreign countries or from foreign countries to Japan, checks, telegraphic transfer and postal money order from Japan to foreign countries and from foreign countries to Japan, excepting yen exchange between Japan and a territory where Japanese currency has force of circulation).

## Article 3.
The following transactions or acts are forbidden without permission of the Governor General of Taiwan:

1. Purchase of foreign currency against Japanese currency, foreign exchange, or of yen exchange destined to a territory where Japanese currency has force of circulation (excepting cases where a person engaged in money exchange purchases foreign currency for purpose of his business).

2. Sale of foreign exchange on Japanese currency to a person other than foreign exchange banks provided in orders in accordance with the Law Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges.

3. Sale and purchase of yen exchange on foreign currency.

4. Sending or carrying of currency, foreign currency, checks, or draft, or other remittances to foreign countries, by method other than prescribed in Article 1 and in other items of this article.

5. Payments to be made in a territory where this order is in force, in accordance with trust made in a foreign country.

## Article 4.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Article 4. In the following cases no permission of the Governor General of Taiwan is necessary on transactions or acts of the preceding article without regard to the provisions of the preceding article:

1. When necessary for exports of goods from this country or for imports of goods into this country.

2. When necessary for payment of insurance money or insurance premium (applies only to payment to be made within six months), or for other payments in connection with insurance contracts.

3. When necessary for remitting to a creditor residing in a foreign country interests payable in this country on bonds, debentures, or bank deposits, profits of trust, dividend on shares, and other gains.

4. When necessary to pay in a foreign country principal and interest of bonds or debentures (within six months) as an obligation under a contract.

5. With the exception of cases under each of other items, when necessary to pay within six months as an execution of obligation under a contract signed before enforcement of this Order, or when necessary to pay an amount not exceeding the equivalent of Yen 1,000 throughout the year as an execution of obligation under a contract to be signed after enforcement of this Order.

6. When necessary to pay for acquirement of patent right or other industrial ownership right, or when necessary for making necessary payments attending use of such rights in this country.

7. When it is necessary for a traveler to foreign countries to carry with him necessary traveling expenses for a period not exceeding one year, provided, however, that the amount of currency or foreign currency which can be carried by the traveler shall not exceed the equivalent of Yen 1,000.

8. When necessary for remitting to a person traveling or staying abroad traveling expenses, salary, wages, allowances, schooling expenses, or other similar expenses, to meet requirements for not more than one year.

9. When necessary for an emigrant designated by the Governor General of Taiwan to remit expenses necessary for his settling after emigration, or when necessary for a company or other juridical person engaged in emigration and colonization business to remit expenses necessary in settling and emigration of an emigrant, at request of such emigrant.

10.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

10. When necessary for a person having residence, head office or a principal office in this country or in a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation to remit capital necessary in his enterprise or business in the said territory.

11. When necessary to pay a draft issued in a foreign country based on a letter of credit issued in this country.

12. When made as a business of a government, or when made in accordance with the need of a government.

Article 5. Without regard to the provisions of Article 3 a bank is not required to obtain permission of the Governor General of Taiwan to do the following transactions or acts:

1. To buy yen exchange destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation, at request of a customer (including banks).

2. To buy yen exchange destined to a territory where Japanese currency has a force of circulation in order to make necessary settlement in connection with sale of yen exchange destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation, or to make remittances to the said territory for the same purpose.

3. To pay for a remittance draft destined to the territory where this Order is enforced from a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation.

Article 6. Without permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is allowed to acquire for a consideration foreign currency negotiable instruments (by foreign currency negotiable instruments are meant interest coupons expressed in foreign currency on bonds, and debentures of this country or a foreign country; and bonds, debentures and shares of this country or a foreign country expressed in foreign currency. The same is meant hereinafter).

The preceding provisions shall not apply to foreign currency negotiable instruments existing in this country on July 9, 1932; or cases where foreign currency negotiable instruments imported under permission in accordance with Capital Flight Prevention Law or the provisions of an order issued in accordance with the Law Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges are acquired in this country; or to cases where a foreigner acquires the foreign currency negotiable instruments with a capital owned by him in a foreign country.

Article 7.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

Article 7. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to buy a credit expressed in a foreign currency against Japanese currency (excepting credit belonging to foreign exchanges and foreign currency negotiable instruments.)

Article 8. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted in the territory in which this order is in force to make contract for account of any person for deposit or a loan for consumption which will acquire a credit or a debt expressed in a foreign currency.

Article 9. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted in the territory in which this order is in force to make a contract for a trust or insurance which will acquire a credit or a debt expressed in a foreign currency (excepting re-insurance and marine insurance. The same is meant hereinafter).

Article 10. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to issue debentures expressed in a foreign currency, or to make a borrowing expressed in a foreign currency in a foreign country on security of property existing in this country.

Article 11. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to acquire a letter of credit, in the territory in which this order is in force, which has no connection with importation of commodity into this country excepting, however, cases where a traveler's letter of credit (including travel check) is acquired within two weeks prior to scheduled date of departure in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of Yen 10,000 in all for traveling expenses of a person traveling to a foreign country, or cases where a travel letter of credit is acquired for carrying travel expenses and other allowances paid by a government.

Article 12. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to import or export negotiable instruments (by negotiable instruments are meant bonds, debentures and shares of this country or foreign countries, or interest coupons on bonds and debentures. The same is meant hereinafter), excepting, however, cases where such are imported into this country within three months before due date or after due date for the purpose of receiving payment of such negotiable instruments having a place of payment in this country.

A person

=== Page 22 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

A person who has imported or exported negotiable instruments under permission in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall submit a report to the Governor General of Taiwan within two weeks in a manner as prescribed elsewhere.

Article 13. Without obtaining permission of the Governor General of Taiwan no person is permitted to export goods without drawing a foreign draft on the whole or a part of the value thereof, excepting, however, the following cases:

1. When exported as sample or for consignment.
2. When proceeds of the goods have already been received before exportation of the goods.
3. With the exception of the cases mentioned in the two preceding items, when it is impossible to draw a foreign draft, or when a foreign draft is not drawn in accordance with trade custom.
4. When an article not exceeding Yen 1,000 in value is exported through a parcel post.

Any person exporting goods without drawing a foreign draft on the whole or a part of the value thereof or without drawing a yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation on the whole or a part of the value thereof shall make an export declaration in a manner as prescribed elsewhere, or submit a report to the Governor General of Taiwan at time of mailing, through the Customs or the post office concerned, excepting, however, articles exported by government, baggage, household effects, ships supplies, gifts for charity or relief purposes, or articles not exceeding Yen 100 in value.

Any person who has not rendered the report mentioned in the preceding paragraph in view of the plan to draw a foreign draft or yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation shall without delay report to the Governor General of Taiwan in a manner prescribed elsewhere through the customs or post office when it became impossible to draw such a draft after making export declaration or after mailing the parcels.

Article 14.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

Article 14. When a person who has exported goods without drawing a draft on the whole or a part of the value thereof or without drawing a yen draft destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation has received the proceeds in a foreign country, he shall take steps to have the proceeds remitted to this country within two months after receipt thereof, after deducting necessary expenses on the goods in the foreign country and proceeds paid on goods imported into this country, excepting, however, cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 15. Foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in this country, due date of which has arrived, shall be sold in this country within three months after such due date, or payment thereon shall be received in this country. However, this shall not apply to cases where total value of such foreign currency negotiable instruments is not more than Yen 1,000 or cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 16. When foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in a foreign country were sold or when payments thereon were received, the proceeds shall be brought to this country within two months with the exception of such amount as has been expended for business or other necessary purposes, excepting, however, cases where the total in equivalent is not more than Yen 1,000 or cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Regarding foreign currency negotiable instruments owned in a foreign country, the due date of which has arrived, payments for such instruments shall be received within three months after the due date, excepting, however, cases where the total amount of such instruments is not more than Yen 1,000 or cases where permission has been obtained from the Governor General of Taiwan.

Article 17. A bank engaged in foreign exchange business at the time of enforcement of this order shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan its office where such business is carried on within two weeks after the enforcement of this order.

A bank which desires to engage in foreign exchange business after enforcement of this order, or a bank which desires to change office where the foreign exchange business is carried on shall beforehand report such an office to the Governor General of Taiwan.

The bank which has submitted a report to the effect that a foreign exchange business would be carried

=== Page 24 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-

carried on in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 shall be called a foreign exchange bank, and the Governor General of Taiwan shall give publicity to the office where the foreign exchange business is carried on and to the change of such an office.

When a foreign exchange bank has discontinued its foreign exchange business it shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan within two weeks, in which case the Governor General of Taiwan shall give publicity to that effect.

Article 18. A foreign exchange bank is not required to obtain permission of the Governor General of Taiwan to do the following transactions or acts, without regard to the provisions of Articles 3, 6 and 12:

1. Buying and selling of foreign currency or foreign exchange (including those items which correspond to a foreign exchange from the standpoint of the business of a foreign exchange bank) at request of a customer (including banks).

2. Buying and selling of foreign exchanges (including those items which correspond to a foreign exchange from the standpoint of the business of a foreign exchange bank) or making remittances to a foreign country for the purpose of adjusting capital within necessary extent as a result of purchase and sale of foreign currencies or foreign exchanges mentioned in the preceding paragraph.

3. To pay remittance draft destined from a foreign country to the territory in which this order is in force.

4. To export foreign currency negotiable instruments to receive payments thereof within three months before due date or after due date.

The provisions of Articles 15 and 16 shall not apply to a foreign exchange bank.

To a bank which has made a report in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the preceding article the provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall apply from the date of enforcement of this order.

Article 19. A foreign exchange bank shall submit not later than 15th of the following month to the Governor General of Taiwan detailed statements, as prescribed elsewhere, concerning purchase and sale of foreign exchanges, sale and purchase of yen exchanges destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation, handling of collection drafts, issuance of letters of credit, etc. in each month.

Article 20.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-

Article 20. A foreign exchange bank shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan within three days in a form prescribed elsewhere daily amount of sale and purchase of foreign exchanges, and amount of sales or purchases on hand, provided, however, that reports shall be made to the Governor General of Taiwan, in a manner as prescribed elsewhere, by head office within three days on totals of every ten days on such transactions in offices in foreign countries.

Article 21. A person engaged chiefly in sale and purchase of negotiable instruments or in brokerage thereof shall submit to the Governor General of Taiwan not later than 15th of the following month a detailed statement, as prescribed elsewhere, regarding sale and purchase of foreign currency negotiable instruments or brokerage thereof in each month.

Article 22. Any person who has contract of trust or insurance expressed in a foreign currency at the time of enforcement of this order shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan within one month after enforcement of this order in accordance with a manner prescribed elsewhere, excepting, however, cases where amount thereof in equivalent is not more than Yen 1,000.

Article 23. Any person who has done the following transactions or acts in this country or a foreign country after enforcement of this order shall report to the Governor General of Taiwan not later than the 15th of the following month such transactions or acts during each month in accordance with a form prescribed elsewhere, excepting, however, cases where the total amount of the object of each of the transactions or acts of each item is in equivalent not more than Yen 1,000:

1. Acquirement or disposition of foreign currency.
2. Acquirement or disposition of foreign exchange.
3. Acquirement or disposition of yen exchange destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation.
4. Remittance to a foreign country in method other than included in each of the preceding items.
5. Acquirement or disposition of foreign currency negotiable instruments.
6. Issuance or acquirement of letters of credit.
7. Depositing or drawing of deposits expressed in foreign currency.
8. Advancing or collecting loans expressed in foreign currency.
9. Entrusting or accepting trust expressed in foreign currency.
10. Making contract of insurance expressed in foreign currency.

11.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 1.00)
-9-

11. Receiving or paying of deposits expressed in foreign currency.
13. Borrowing or paying of loans expressed in foreign currency.
14. Payment made in the territory in which this order is in force in accordance with trust made in foreign country.

Any person who desires to travel to a foreign country shall report before his departure without regard to the time limit of the preceding paragraph.

Article 24. The provisions of the preceding article with the exception of paragraph 1, item 2, shall not apply to transactions or acts conducted by a foreigner in a foreign country.

Article 25. The detailed statements and reports to be submitted to the Governor General of Taiwan on transactions or acts in a foreign country in accordance with the provisions of Articles 19, 21, and 23 shall be sent from the place concerned not later than the 15th of the following month, and the head office shall without delay submit such statements and reports upon receipt.

Article 26. Any person having foreign currency, foreign exchange, foreign currency negotiable instruments, deposits expressed in foreign currency, credit on loans, or deposits with him expressed in foreign currency, or obligation of a borrowing, or who has made a contract of trust or insurance expressed in foreign currency shall report amounts thereof to the Governor General of Taiwan not later than the 15th of the following month, when such a person has become a resident in the territory in which this order is in force, excepting, however, cases where amounts thereof in equivalent do not exceed Yen 1,000.

Article 27. When a person who is obligated to submit detailed statements or reports within a prescribed period in accordance with this order is unable to submit such statements or reports within the prescribed period owing to accident or other unavailable reasons, he shall submit such statements or reports without delay as soon as such reasons have ceased to exist setting forth the reasons involved.

Article 28. When considered necessary the Governor General of Taiwan may requisition reports by designating matters and persons in addition to what are prescribed in this order.

Article 29. When considered necessary the Governor General of Taiwan may cause an official inspect books or other objects of any person concerning matters connected

=== Page 27 === (confidence 1.00)
-10-

connected with the prohibition or restriction of Article 1 of the Law Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges.

**Article 30.** The Governor General of Taiwan may order a person to dispose of, or to sell to a person designated by the Governor General of Taiwan, gold bullions, foreign currency, foreign exchanges, negotiable instruments expressed in foreign currency, or a credit expressed in foreign currency, with the exception of those that are considered necessary for business or other justifiable reasons.

**Article 31.** Procedures necessary concerning cases where permission of the Governor General is sought in accordance with the provisions of this order and cases where reports are made to the Governor General of Taiwan in accordance with the provisions of this order shall be separately prescribed.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-

SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION.

Article 32. This order shall be in force from May 1, 1933.

Article 33. The detailed statements and reports to be submitted for every month in accordance with the provisions of this order shall be submitted beginning with the statements and reports for the month of April, 1933.

Article 34. To a person who has not submitted statements and reports in accordance with the provisions of Articles 7, 8, paragraph 9 of article 2 or paragraph 2 of Article 10 of the Taiwan Capital Flight Prevention Regulations, Government General Order No. 34 of 1932, covering each month prior to March, 1933, the provisions of the said Order shall apply. The said order shall also apply to a person who has not submitted reports in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the said order.

Article 35. The detailed statements or reports to be submitted in accordance with the provisions of Articles 22 or 25 covering districts distant from Taiwan may be sent from the said district not later than the 15th of the month following the month during which the provisions of this order can be known through mail.

Article 36. A person who has obtained permission from the Governor General of Taiwan in accordance with the provisions of Government General Order No. 71 of 1931 or the Taiwan Capital Flight Prevention Regulations, Government General Order No. 34 of 1932, shall be considered as having obtained permission in accordance with the provisions of this order regarding transactions or acts concerned.

Article 37. Government General Order No. 67 of 1931 and Government General Order No. 71 of 1931 are abolished, provided, however, that the said orders shall apply to acts on which penal provisions of the said orders were applicable prior to enforcement of this order.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Estimated from Taiwan Government General Official Gazette No. 1,797 dated May 1, 1933 by Chuhei Matsuo, (Interpreter, American Consulate, Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan)

Taiwan Government General Order No. 60.

The Regulations Governing Enforcement of the Regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges in Taiwan are hereby enacted as follows:

May 1, 1933. Kenzo Nakagawa, Governor General of Taiwan.

# REGULATIONS GOVERNING ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONTROL OF FOREIGN EXCHANGES IN TAIWAN.

## Article 1.

Any person desiring to apply for a permission of the Governor General of Taiwan regarding transactions or acts in accordance with the provisions of the Regulations Governing Control of Foreign Exchanges in Taiwan, Government General Order No. 57 of 1933 (hereinafter called merely the regulations) shall make applications in duplicate in accordance with the provisions of this order and submit them to the Governor General of Taiwan through the Bank of Taiwan (head office and branch offices are meant. The same is meant hereinafter), excepting, however, cases where there are special provisions.

When it is extremely inconvenient from business or other reasons to apply for permission on each of transactions or acts in compliance with the procedure of the preceding paragraph, such circumstances may be reported to the Governor General of Taiwan. In such a case the Governor General of Taiwan may prescribe a special procedure.

## Article 2.

The following items shall be stated in application for permission regarding exports of gold coins or gold bullions in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Kinds, quantity and value of gold coins or gold bullions to be exported.
3. Address, occupation and name or business title of consignee.
4. When an article to be exported is the property of other person, address, occupation and name or business title of the owner thereof.
5. Method of transportation, port of shipment, port of destination, and name of vessel. In the case of mail the name of post office to which posted.
6. Scheduled date of export. In the case of mail the scheduled date of mailing.
7. Purpose of export, or other reasons requiring export.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

## Article 3.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Article 3. The following items must be stated in an application for permission regarding export of alloy of gold or an article consisting chiefly of gold in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the regulations, and the application shall be sent to the Governor General of Taiwan two weeks before the scheduled date of shipment through the customs at the port of shipment. (In the case by mail the application shall be sent through near-by customs two weeks before scheduled date of mailing.)

1. Address, occupation, and name or business title of applicant.
2. Kind, quantity, value and quantity of gold content of alloy of gold or an article consisting chiefly of gold, which is desired to be exported.
3. Items mentioned from No. 3 to No. 8 of the preceding article, baggage carried by a person about to travel abroad, and personal belongings may be submitted to a competent customs officer for permission before embarking a vessel without regard to the procedure of the preceding paragraph.

Article 4. In the application for permission regarding purchase of foreign currency in accordance with the provisions of item 1 of Article 3 of the regulations the following matters shall be mentioned:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Kind, amount and location of foreign currency.
3. Address, occupation, name and business title of seller.
4. Scheduled time of purchase.
5. Purpose of purchase or other reasons necessitating purchase.
6. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 5. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning purchase or sale of foreign bills of exchange in accordance with Item 1 of Article 3 or Item 2 of the said article of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Kind and amount of bill of exchange.
3. Address, occupation, name of business title of the person to whom the bill of exchange is addressed.
4. Whether spot or under contract; in case of contract date of delivery.
5. Address, occupation, name of business title of person with whom transactions are conducted.
6. Scheduled date of purchase or sale.

8.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

8. Purpose of purchase or sale, or other reasons requiring purchase or sale.
9. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 6. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning purchase of yen exchange destined to a territory in which Japanese currency has a force of circulation in accordance with Item 1 of Article 3 of the regulations:

1. Matters mentioned from Item 1 to 4 of the preceding Article.
2. Address, occupation, name or business title of seller.
3. Scheduled date of purchase.
4. Purpose of purchase, or other reasons requiring purchase.
5. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 7. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning purchase or sale of Yen exchange in accordance with Item 3 of Article 3 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Kind of bill of exchange, amount and kind of foreign currency to be paid against the bill.
3. Matters mentioned in Items 3 to 9 of Article 5.

Article 8. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning remittance to foreign countries in accordance with Item 4 of Article 3 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Method of remittance.
3. Amount of remittance.
4. In case there is a payee, the address, occupation, name or business title of the payee.
5. In case the remittance is entrusted to other person, the address, occupation, name or business title of the person handling the remittance.
6. Scheduled date of remittance.
7. Purpose of remittance, or other reasons requiring remittance.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 9. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning payment to be made in a territory in which this order is in force in accordance with trust made in a foreign country in accordance with Item 5 of Article 3 of the regulations:

1.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Address, occupation, name or business title of the person making the trust.
3. Amount of payment.
4. Method of entrusting payment.
5. Address, occupation, name or business title of person to whom payment is to be made.
6. Scheduled date of payment.
7. Relation between the person making the payment and the person entrusting payment, and reason why the payment was entrusted and accepted.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 10. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission regarding acquisition of foreign currency negotiable instruments for consideration in accordance with Article 6 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Name and quantity of foreign currency negotiable instruments.
3. Kind and estimated amount of foreign currency with which the value of the instruments is shown or calculated.
4. Place where delivery of the instruments takes place.
5. Address, occupation, name or business title of the other party of transactions or broker.
6. Scheduled date of acquisition.
7. Purpose of acquisition, or other reasons requiring acquisition.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 11. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning transfer of a credit expressed in a foreign currency in accordance with Article 7 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Kind and amount of credit.
3. Address, occupation, name or business title of debtor.
4. Estimated amount.
5. Address, occupation, name or business title of the person transferring the credit.
6. Scheduled date of transfer.
7. Purpose of transfer, or other reasons requiring the transfer.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 12.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

Article 12. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning deposit, consumption loans, trust, or insurance contract in accordance with Articles 8 or 9 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Maximum limit of balance of deposit, or amount of consumption loans, trust, or insurance contract.
3. Kind of contract and estimated principal terms and conditions.
4. In case of account of other person, address, occupation, name or business title of such other person.
5. Address, occupation, name or business title of the other party to contract.
6. Scheduled date of contract.
7. Purpose of contract, or other reasons requiring contract.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

The application mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall be submitted by both parties to a contract, excepting, however, cases where one of the parties resides in a territory outside the territory in which this order is in force.

Article 13. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning issuance of debentures or borrowings in accordance with Article 10 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name, or business title of applicant.
2. Estimated amount of issuance of debentures, estimated amount of borrowings, and principal estimated terms and conditions.
3. Kind of security, quantity and location of security.
4. Contemplated place of issuance of debentures, or place where borrowings will be made.
5. Address, occupation, name or business title of the other party to contract.
6. Scheduled time of issuance of debentures or borrowings.
7. Purpose of issuance of debentures or borrowings, or other reasons requiring issuance of debentures or borrowings.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 14. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning acquisition of letter of credit in accordance with Article 11 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

2. Kind, amount and principal terms and conditions of letter of credit.
3. Address, occupation, name or business title of the person drawing a draft under a letter of credit.
4. Address, occupation, name or business title of person issuing letter of credit.
5. Scheduled time of acquisition.
6. Purpose of acquisition, or other reasons requiring acquisition.
7. In the case of traveler's letter of credit, itinerary; and if there is other traveler's letter of credit to be acquired for same travel, or traveling expense to be carried otherwise or to be remitted, the amount thereof.
8. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 15. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning import or export of negotiable instruments in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 12 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Name, quantity, and location of negotiable instruments.
3. Reason and time for acquisition of negotiable instruments.
4. Address, occupation, name or business title of the persons sending and receiving negotiable instruments.
5. In case negotiable instruments are property of other person, address, occupation name or business title of the owner thereof.
6. Method of transportation; and in case of importation the place where mail is sent, port of importation, and name of vessel on which shipment is scheduled; in case of exportation name of post office where mail is sent, or port of shipment, and name of vessel on which shipment is scheduled.
7. Scheduled time of importation or exportation; in case of export by mail scheduled time of mailing.
8. Purpose of importation or exportation, or other reasons requiring importation or exportation.
9. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 16. Any person who desires to import negotiable instruments, carrying with his such negotiable instruments, may submit an application for import permit in duplicate prescribed in the preceding article at time of arrival at the territory in which this order is in force through the Customs at the port of arrival.

Article 17.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-

Article 17. The following shall be mentioned in the application for permission concerning export of goods for which no foreign bill of exchange is drawn for the whole or a part of the value in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the regulations:

1. Address, occupation, name or business title of applicant.
2. Name, quantity and value of goods for export.
3. Address, occupation, name or business title of consignee.
4. In case goods are property of other person, address, occupation, name or business title of owner thereof.
5. Method of transportation, port of shipment, and name of vessel; in case by mail the fact of mailing and name of post office.
6. Method of and estimated time of receiving proceeds of goods.
7. Scheduled date of export; in case by post estimated date of mailing.
8. Reason why a foreign bill of exchange is not drawn.
9. Other matters useful as reference.

Article 18. Necessary matters shall be appropriately mentioned in the application for permission provided in each proviso of paragraph 1 or 2 of Article 16, and in Articles 14 and 15 of the regulations:

Article 19. When an application is made for permission concerning transactions or acts made in a foreign country by a representative of a juridical person, agent, employee and other persons employed, the application shall be submitted by the head office of the juridical person or principal office. In such a case address, occupation, name and business title of the person doing the transactions or acts shall be also mentioned.

When an application is made for permission concerning transactions or acts made in a foreign country by a representative of a person, employee, or other person employed, the application shall be submitted by the principal or employer, and in this case the address, occupation, name or business title of the person doing the transactions or acts shall also be mentioned.

Article 20. Detailed statements or reports to be submitted to the Governor General of Taiwan in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 12, paragraph 3 of Article 13, or Articles 19 to 23 of the regulations shall be made out in duplicate in accordance with the forms prescribed elsewhere excepting form which will be separately prescribed, and shall be submitted through

=== Page 36 === (confidence 1.00)
-8-

through nearest office of the Bank of Taiwan with the exception of reports provided in paragraph 2 of Article 13 and paragraph 3 of the same Article of the regulations.

**Article 21.** Owners or others interested in foreign currency negotiable instruments which are entitled to affixing of stamps in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 or Article 9 of the Regulations Governing Enforcement of the Regulations Governing Prevention of Flight of Capital from Taiwan, Taiwan Government General Order No. 35 of 1932, but on which instruments no stamps are as yet affixed, may produce such instruments to nearest office of the Bank of Taiwan and obtain affixing of stamps prescribed elsewhere.

**Article 22.** Owners or others interested in foreign currency negotiable instruments imported under permission in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 12 of the regulations, and on which instruments reports had been made in accordance with paragraph 2 of the said article, may produce such instruments to nearest office of the Bank of Taiwan and obtain affixing of stamps prescribed elsewhere, excepting, however, cases where at time of granting import permit it was stipulated that such instruments were not entitled to affixing of the stamps.

**Article 23.** Government offices may with the permission of the Governor General of Taiwan obtain affixing of stamps prescribed elsewhere on foreign currency negotiable instruments not coming under the provisions of the two preceding articles.

**Supplemental Regulation.**

This Order shall be in force from the day of promulgation thereof.

Application for permission submitted in accordance with the provisions of Regulations Governing Enforcement of the Regulations Governing Prevention of Flight of Capital from Taiwan, Taiwan Government General Order No. 35 of 1932, shall be considered to have been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Order regarding the matters concerned.

(Separate paragraph - forms)
(Note: Translation of forms omitted)
