894A.014 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Formosa. Taiwan, Territory. Maps, February 17, 1942 - June 15, 1944 (File 1430)
ID: 894A.014-1430   Pages: 64   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.014-government-mandates-recognition-3
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.98)
February 17, 1942.
FORMOSA
I
DIVISION OF
Historical Sketch*
1942
TMENT OF STATE
Chinese historians begin the histhry
mosa in
1430, when the island was visited by an bfficer of the
Imperial Court. The existence of the island and some-
thing of its inhabitants and its geography were known
to the Chinese for centuries before that time, however.
In 1564 the first Chinese garrison was established at For-
mosa and a Chinese governor appointed. In the following
60 years communities were founded by Chinese and Japanese
pirates and large numbers of Chinese farmers, chiefly
894A.014/2
Hakkas or outcast classes, came from Kwangtung Provinoe to
reclaim and farm the rioh soil.
Early in the seventeenth century the Dutch established
OCT
themselves in the Pescadores, the arohipelago in the
FILBIL
with China and to further their own commeroe with south
China. From this position the Dutch activities in adjacent
seas
*This section is a digest of the historical portions of
"Formosa, Past and Present", by James W. Davison, Comsul of
the United States for Formosa, NacMillan and Company,
the original works of Dutoh writers of the period of Duteh
rule, the arohives of the Bpanish mission, anclent Chinese
and Japanese writings, reports of the Imperial Chinese Me
time Customs, official Japanese reports, offieial Fremeh
American and British records, personal observatien ef
participation in many of the events related, and nu
private writings.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
-1a
seas and mainland ports became so troublesome to the
Chinese that in l623 the Chinese coded Formosa to the
Dutch in return for the restoration to China of the
Pescadores. Dutch rule over Formosa lasted until 1662,
when the Dutch were defeated and expelled from the island
by the famous Chinese hero Cheng Kung, or Koxinga as he
was known to Europeans.
Koxinga was born in Hirado, near Nagasaki, of a Chinese
trader

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
trader established in that town and a Japanese mother.
Returning to Chine with his father, Koxinga grew up in
the interregnum between the fall of the Ming Dynasty and
the establishment of the Manchu Dynasty. Loyal to the Ming
emperor, Koxinga organized and led resistance to the Manchus
in south China and, in order to improve his strategic posi-
tion, transferred his base of operations to Formosa. After
overcoming and expelling the Dutch in Formosa, Koxinga con-
tinued fighting for the Mings on the mainland until their
cause became hopelese, when he withdrew to Formosa with his
followers and set up his own independent dynasty. This
dynasty was short-lived, however, and in 1683 Koxinga's
incompetent son abdicated his throne and swore allegiance
to the Manchus. In the next two centuries, despite the
lawlessness, rebellions and native uprisings which seemed
to have characterized early Formosan history, Chinese
settlers from Fukien and Kwangtung Provinces swarmed into the
island and settled the lowlands on the western side, while
the savage aborigines slowly retreated to the mountainous
jungles and precipitous fastnesses of the eastern coast.
At the same time the produotivity of the rioh island inoreased
and Formosa came to be looked upon by the Chinese as their
granary. In l850 the island was opened to foreign intercourse,
the tea and camphor trade especially attracting many western
merohants.
In

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
In the nineteenth century the aboriginal inhabitants of
Formosa, a people of a particularly savage and untamable nature,
were the cause of perennial diplomatic difficulties between
China and the powers. These savages, as was mentioned above,
inhabited the mountain fastnesses along the east coast and
were in the habit of putting to death or making captives of
European and Japanese mariners shipwrecked on that coast.
Protests to the Chinese Government were ineffective for the
reason that the Chinese had not yet extended their control
over those inaccessible regions. Accordingly the powers from
time to time resorted to "gunboat" diplomacy with the local
Chinese authorities to compel action against the savages and
in several cases themselves conducted expeditions against the
savages. In 1867 a force of 181 men from the U.S.S. Hartford
and Wyoming, under Admiral Bell, was sent against the savages
to punish them for their murder earlier of the crew of the
American bark Rover which was shipwrecked on their coast.
The expedition was unsuccessful, and in his report of it
Admiral Bell said that the only way to ineure the safety of
mariners shipwrecked off the east coast of Formosa was to
clear that coast of savages and urged that the Chinese
undertake this task.
In 1874 the Botan tribe of savages put to death the orew
of a Loochoo Island fishing schooner wrecked on their coast.
The Loochooans

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
The Loochooans, claiming the Daimyo of Satsuma as their
liege lord, petitioned the Japanese Government to redress
this wrong. The Japanese accepted this petition, declared
the Loochoo Islands a part of Japan, and pressed the Chinese
to take punitive action against the savages. As the Chinese
replied they could assume no responsibility for depredations
committed beyond the area effectively controlled by them,
the Japanese fitted out a strong expedition and took matters
into their own hands, employing the former American consul at
Amoy, General Le Gendre, and two former American naval officers
as advisers to the expedition. The United States Minister to
Japan protested against employment of Americans in the expe-
dition unless the written consent of China to the expedition
was first obtained by Japan and prevented the use as a transport
for the expeditionary force of an American steamer engaged
by the Japanese for that purpose. Regardless of these dip-
lomatic complications, the Japanese expedition was carried
out and the savages punished.
Formosa was also drawn into the Franoo-Chinese war of
1884-85. The French conducted a long and costly campaign
against the Chinese forces in the island but withdrew their
forces with the peace treaty of June 9, 1885.
The following decade, the last of Chinese rule, was per-
haps the happiest in Formosa's turbulent history. Peace and
order were restored, Formosa became a province of China,
progress in all fields was made, and trade boomed.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
W1th the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese war in 1894 Japan
occupied the Pescadores, giving rise to unrest in Formosan
cities. German, British and American warships proceeded to
Formosan ports and landed forces to protect their respective
communities there. On May 8, 1895 peace with Japan was s1gned
and Formosa ceded to Japan. The people of Formosa, however,
did not consent to the cession and on May 23 declared Formosa
an independent republic under the suzerainty of China. The
Frenoh too intervened diplomatically to prevent annexation.
Disregarding these developments, the Japanese, however, sent
large forces to the island and on June 17 inaugurated the
Government General. A vigorous campaign against the Chinese
forces followed and by October 2l the Formosan Republic came
to an end.
Formosa in American Paciric History*
Although the United States, as indicated in the pre-
ceding section, appeared but rarely on the Formosan scene
and then only in unimportent roles, the island was of consider-
able political interest to our representatives in the Far East
during the eighteen-fifties.
The need of supplies of coal along the way in order to
establ1sh
** This seotion is based on "Americans in Eastern Asia", by
Tyler Dennett, the MacMillan Company, New York, 1922. Mr. Den-
nett!s sources were manusoripts in United States Archives, U.s.
Government publications, Texts of Treaties, British Parliamentary
Papers, as well as privately published pamphlets, books, et cetera.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-6
establish our steam navigation on the Pacific drew the attention
of our representatives in China to three possible souroes of coal;
China, Japan and Formosa. Of these, Formosa was the first to be
looked into. In l847 officere of the American Navy made surveys
of the coal resouroes of Formosa and in l849 the U.S. Brig
DOLPHIN made an expedition to Keelung (Formosa) for further
exploration. Again in l854, after signing the treaty opening
up Japan and dispersing his squadron, Commodore Perry ordered
two of his vessels to Manila and Formosa to investigate, with
respect to the latter, the persistent renorts of shipwreched
American sailors held in captivity and the reported coal mines.
No captives were found, but coal of good quality and in
abundance was found, and upon returning to the United States,
Perry, who had been on the ship that went to Formosa, recommended
that "the United Stetes should take the initiative in this
magnificent 1sland" and even went so far as to speak of the
necessity of extending the "territorial jurisdiction" of the
United States to Formosa.
This may be the proper place to refer briefly to the
American claim to the Loochoo Islands, the archipolago
running from the northeast of Formoea to the southern tip of
the Japanese main 1slan: group. On his first visit to Japan
1n 1853, Perry made "Great Lew Chew" (Okinawa Island) the
rendezvous

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
rendezvoue for his squadron and succe sfull negotiated for a
coal depot at Naha, which had the best harbor on the 1sland--
the President on February 15 of that year had apnroved the
occupation of the principal ports of the Loochoos, which were
assumed to belong to Japan, in case ports could not be
obtained in Japan proper without resort to force. Perry kept
one or more of his ships there constantly and on January 25,1854,
declared his intention of placing Great Lew Chew under the
Am erican flag-- the President wd th reference to this declaration
expressed disinclination to take and retain possession of this
1sland. The conciliatory spirit of the Japanese on Perry's
second visit, however, removed the necessity of. occupying
the Loochoos and Perry therefore concluded a treaty with the
King of the Loochoos on July 11, 1854, which was ratified by
the Senate. When in 1872 Japan reasserted her claim to the
islands--the first claim was made 1n 1862-- the United States
merely stipulated that Japan should become directly responsible
for the maintenance of the rights of Americans secured by its
treaty with the Loochoo King.
Returning to the story of Formosa, the visit to the
1sland of Commodore Perry in l854 inoreased the interest in
the 1sland of Americans in China and an American firm, Nye
and Robinet, was formed to exploit Formosan trade. This
firm secured the monopoly of the camphor trade, improred the
harbor

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
harbor of Takao and raised the American flag over the entrance
to that harbor. The firm even sugrested that it was willing
to set up an independent government in Formosa provided this
government was assured the approval and protection of the
American Government. The American commissioner 1n China at
that time, Dr. Peter Parker, was very hospitable to the 1dea
of Nye and Robinet, and in 1856-1857 wrote to the State
Department a series of impetuous letters urging the completion
of the acquisition of Formosa. On his own responsibility
Dr. Parker even addressed a protest to the British plen1-
potentiary in China against certain British action that
seemed to Parker to indicate British designs on Formosa.
Sympathetic to Dr. Parker's policy was Commodore Armstrong,
chief of the United States squadron 1n Asiatio waters, who
proposed to Dr. Parker, and which proposal was readily sanotioned
by Parker, that an officer be detached from his squadron to make
another search for shipwrecked seamen "with the instructions
to keep his headquarters and flag at the premises" of Nye and
Robinet.
Dr. Parker's despatches to the State Department concerning
the a oquisition of Formosa remained unanswered, but shortly
after the 1nstallation of the Buohanan installation in l857
a minister was appointed to China (in place of the former
comm1ssioner),

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
harbor of Takao and raised the American flag over the entrance
to that harbor. The firm even sug ested that it was willing
to set up an independent government in Formosa provided this
government was assured the approval and protection of the
American Government. The American commissioner in China at
that time, Dr. Peter Parker, was very hospitable to the 1dea
of Nye and Robinet, and in 1856-1857 wrote to the State
Department a series of impetuous letters urging the completion
of the acquisition of Formosa. On his own responsibility
Dr. Parker even addressed a protest to the British plen1-
potentiary in China against certain British action that
seemed to Parker to indicate British designs on Formosa.
Sympathetic to Dr. Parker's policy was Commodore Armstrong,
chief of the United States squadron in Asiatio waters, who
pronosed to Dr. Parker, and which proposal was readily sanotioned
by Parker, that an officer be detached from his squadron to make
another search for shipwrecked seamen "with the instructions
to keep his headquarters and flag at the premises" of Nye and
Robinet.
Dr. Parker's despatches to the State Department concerning
the a oquisition of Formosa remained unanswered, but shortly
after the installat1on of the Buohanan installation in l857
a minister was appointed to China (in place of the former
commissioner),

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
commissioner), whose instructi ns were very explicit and a
complete disavowal of the policies of Perry, Parker and
Armstrong. These instructions directed the new minister to
let it be known to the Chinese authorities, among other thing,
that we had no intention to interfere in their political concerns
or to gain a foothold in their country, but that we went to
China to engage in trade.
Political Aspects of Formosa
Like all of Japan's accretions to her Empire, Formosa
was annexed when it was ready-made, after others had reolaimed
it from the wilderness, settled it, built cities, pioneered.
and developed its resources and generally transformed it, after
centuries of toil, into a going concern of priceless value.
Formosa was in no way involved in Japen's war of aggression
on China of 1894-95, or related to the causes which led up
to that war, which themselves were s purious, and the annexation
of the island was an act of pure spoilation. Formosa's people
were predominantly Chinese, its trade was chiefly with China,
and the nearby provinces of China depended largely on 1ts
crops for their food supply. Despite the lapse of years,
there is every reason, economio, ethnical and moral, that
Formosa should once more belong to China.
The national interest of the United States in Formosa
1s commercial and strategic. We depend entirely on Formosa
for

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
for our supply of natural camphor and for a type of tea
especially suited to our taste. Under Japanese mule, this
camphor has been a state monopoly while Formosan tea, by
discriminatory practices, has become a virtual monopoly of
one or two Japanese quasi-official corporations, so that
American consumers of these articles have been at the mercy
of monopolies. As for general trade, American industry has
been practically barred from the Formosan market by the same
unfair practices. Thus it 1s in our national intereet that
the island should be in the hands of a nation traditionally
liberal in trade regulation such as China. But far more
1mportant than the commeroial aspects of the question are
the strategic aspects. Formosa in the hands of an unfriendly
power, especially a naval power, 1s a standing threat to the
peaceful development and security of the peoples of south-
eastern Asia and Oceania and to our free intercourse with
those peoples so vitel to our national well-being.
37

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
February 17, 1942
FORMOSA
MR. HORNOECK
FE
II
Introduction
With the crystallization in recent years of Japan's
plans for the domination of East Asia, Formosa (Taiwan)
has assumed a role of increasing importance in the Japanese
Empire. Japanese have described the island as a gigantic
aircraft carrier giving easy access to the inviting lands
of south China and the south seas. Formosa's strategio
value is being proved in the present hostilities.
This memorandum is a brief preliminary sketoh of
Japan's administration of Formosa and of the character
and attitudes of the people of Formosa. The information
89
P.11
may possibly contribute toward the evaluation of the
problem which Formosa presents in the Pacific war. This
problem will include consideratione of the possibility
of revolutionary activity by the Formosans against the
Japanese, tactics to be adopted with regard to Formosa,
and the eventual disposition of Formosa at the time
of a peace settlement.
Population
The population of Formosa acoording to statisties
as of 1938, numbered 5,746,959 persons. of these,
approximately 93% were of Chinese race. Japanese numbered
308,845 and aborigines who are rac1ally akin to the wild
tribes of the northern Philippines and to certain peoples
of

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of Borneo, 155,921.
The Administration of Formosa
The administration of Formosa has been carried on in
close coordination with the armed services of Japan. For
a number of years the post of Governor-General of Formosa
has been held by a ranking admiral of the Japanese Navy.
The present Governor-General, Admiral Hasegawa, has held
some of the most important naval posts, inoluding that
of commander-in-chier of the South China fleet, commander-
in-chief of the Yokosuka Naval Station and member of the
Supreme War Council.
The Formosa Government-General has exercised an
unusual degree of autonomy for a colonial administration.
Until recently under the contrci of the Overseas Ministry,
there has long been agitation for the setting up of a
South Seas Administration in Formosa in which would be
oentered control of Japan's aotivities in South China
and the South Seas. Control from Tokyo has been resented,
it having been pointed out on various ocoasi ons by
Japanese in Taiwan that the central gavermment failed to
appreciate the 1mportance of Formosa to the Japanese
Empire. In actual practice, opinions of the Foreign
Office have at times apparently been given slight con-
sideration by the Government General.
The forms of government in Formosa are similar to
those in Japan. The native population, although entitled to
participate

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
participate in government, actually plays no important
part. Higher official positions are appointive and are
invariably filled by Japanese. Local organizations of
Formosans are so closely supervised by the police that
no opportunity is ever presented for the formulation of
any plans or proposals originating with the Formosans.
By the letter of the law, Formosans are entitled
to representation in the government by election to local
assemblies. These assemblies exist in towns, villages,
cities, provinces and prefectures. One half of the
membership of these bodies is elected; the remainder is
appointed by the provincial governor. The last election
was held in November, 1939. Suffrage is limited to
male subjects, 25 years of age or over, who fulfill
certain other residence, tax, and police requirements.
Except in one village Japanese members of these assemblies
greatly outnumber the Formosans.
The Japanese have attempted, and to a large
extent succeeded, in utilizing the traditional Chinese
village organizations for the promulgation of patriotio
1deas. Wherever possible, they have seen to it that young
Formosans who have been subjected to Japanese instruotion
in the public sohools and who speak the Japanese language,
succeed to the headships of these units in the place of
v11lage

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
village "elders" less thoroughly impregnated with Japanese
ideals. Effective police supervision controls the activities
of such organizations.
The Character of the Formosan
People
With the exception of some 150,000 abor1gines and
about 3: O,Ooo Japanese, the population of Formosa 1s Chinese.
Most Chinese ho emigrated to Formosa belonged to the Haklos
and Hakka groups, the former originating in Fukien province
and the latter in Kwangtung. The great majority of Formosan
Chinese are of Fukienese origin and the so-called "Formosan"
language is the Fukienese dialect with certain corruptions.
Cantonese still survives among certain groups of Hakka
origin.
Latest available statistics showing origins of
the Formosan Chinese are for the year 1935, as follows:
Origins of Formosan Chinese Population
Fukien
4,036,630
Canton
744,267
Others
232
4,781,129
At the time of Chinese infiltration into Taiwan,
clashes between Chinese and aborigines occurred frequently.
The savages retired gradually to the mountainous regions,
however, and for many years travel in their territory was
exceedingly dangerous.
Relations between the Japanese and the aborigines
have

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-5
have not always been peaceful. As recently as 1930 an
insurrection in which 197 Jananese were massacred, occurred.
Since that time there have been spor dic incidents, usually
resulting from resentment by the savages at the actions or
treatment meted out by the oolice, who exercise dictatorial
control over them.
It has been the policy of the Japanese administration
to evacuate the savage villagers from remote mountainous
districts to the plains, where they can be more easily
supervised and can be taught to engage in productive
pursuits. The Japanese have classified the aboriginal
population according to their degree of "civilization"
and some households are exempted from police supervision.
In 1938 there were 21 "plains" villages (a term used by the
Japanese to designate villages of aborigines settled in
plains regions) with a population of 6,454 and 408 villages
in segregated mountainous districts with a population of
88,231, under police administration. Approximately 60,000
aborigines were stated to be living outside police control.
Religious and Social Control of the Inhabitants
of Formosa
The Japanese have consistently pursued a policy of
eradicating in Formosa all traces of Chinese culture,
customs and religion. The traditional Chinese theater
and puppet plays are banned; Chinese festivals are pro-
hibited; wearing of the Chinese costume is discouraged;
many

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Chinese temples nave been destroyed, the Formosans
being urged to worship t the Japanese Shinto shrines
now erected in most of the towns and villages. Intensive
efforts have been made, especially since the beginning of
the China Incident, to force the population to learn
and use exolusively the Japanese language. According
to a publication of the Formosa Government-General, 45%
of the Formosan population could speak Japanese in 1939.
This figure would appear to be an exaggeration since in
Farmosa one actually 1s able to converse in Japanese
only with Formosans who have received a Japanese education
or with school children.
Education Control
Formosans have not been permitted to attend the same
elementary schools as the Japanese. While, in theory,
Formosans may be admitted to the middle and high sohools,
and to the university in Taihoku, in actual practice the
percentage of Formosan students as compared to the
Japanese, 1s remarkably small. Of a total enrollment
in Taihoku Imperial Univers1ty in 1938 of 580 students,
only 178 were Formosan. Of these,148 were studying
medicine, since that is apparently the only profession
in which the Formosans can compete on an equal basis
with the Japanese.
There is little mingling between Formosan and
Japanese

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Japanese students in the sohools in Frmosa, the Japanese
invariably assuming an attitude of superiority which
permits no comradeship. Only one professor at the
Imperial University in Taihoku 1s Formosan and his
must be a department of one member since no Japanese
will consent to serve under him.
Instruction in the schools of Formosa 1s directed
to the inculcation of Japanese patriotism and the eradica-
tion of all vestiges of Chinese lore and ideas. An elaborate
system of language and training institutes has been set
up throughout the 1sland to 1nstruot the adult population
in the virtues of Imperial Japan. Several thousand
organizations of various types, all designed to further
the Japanization of the Formosans and their spiritual
mobilization, were in existence in 1939.
Estimate of the Attitudes of the Frmosan People
While the lackadaisacal nature of the Formosans
and their lack of initiative have always preoluded
the possibility of a successful uprising against their
rulers or even of an undercover organization, certainly
1t is true that they smart under the rule of the Japanese
who, far from putting into practioe their vaunted ideals
of Asiatic brotherhood, have treated the inhabitants of
Formosa as an inferior, subject race. The ambitious,
educated

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
educated Formosan finds no opportunity in Formosa. No
profession, except that of medicine, is open to him. No
posit1on in the government 1s open to him. Unlees he
comes of a family owning an established business which
he can enter, he cannot hope for a career offering ad-
vancement compensatory to ability. For this reason, am-
bitlous young Formosans have sought employment in Japan
Proper, where there is less discrimination, or in occupied
China, where a knowledge of both Japanese and Chinese is
of value.
Since the beginning of the conflict between Japan
and China the control of the lives of the Formosans has
become progressively more onerous. The farmer has been
told what to plant, how much to plant, and what price he
may receive. He has been forced to contribute livestock,
produce and money to the Government in order to prosecute
the war against China. His living has become more ex-
pensive.
It is believed that, if the opportunity presented
itself, the Formosan Chinese would turn against the
Japanese. They would not do so, however, until a Japanese
defeat and their liberation had become certainties.
The Success of Japanese Administration of Formoss
The Japanese refer to Formosa as a model colonial
administration

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
administration and suggest that the Chinese in China should
be attracted by the "paradise" which the Japanese have
created for their brothers on this island. However, in
actual fact Formosa has been administered for the benefit
of Japan and the Japanese have been completely indifferent
to the well-being or aspirations of the Formosan Chinese.
Taiwan has supplied Japan with rice and sugar, has brought
profits in the form of exports of tea and camphor and
is now playing a very important military role in Japan's
war. Uprisings by both Formosan Chinese and aborigines
have been relentlessly suopressed. In one instance 867
death sentences were imposed on revolting Formosans.
The tightening of police control in the past few
years and the imposition of complete censorship in the
island have prevented recent outbreaks or, if such
occurred, have prevented their being made public. Japanese
methods can only have served to keep the resentment glowing.
Japan's administration of Formosa can be called
successful only from the point of view of Japan. The
Formosans have followed the will of their conquerors
because there has been no alternative. The loyalty they
express for Japan does not run deep.
Conalusiona
1. A revolution of the natives of Formosa against
Japanese rule might occur at a time when the Japanese are
suffering

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
-10-
uffering major military defeats. Such an uprising is
decidedly unlikely before that time.
2. It i: celieved thet preuppande enperls by radio or
ot er nns would have lit le effect uoon the Formosan popu-
latior. until such time as the Japanese ere beginning to suf-
fer reverses. At that time, lon -wave broadcasts from
powerful stetions in China addressed to the Formosan people
should be instituted. Although short-wave sets are non-
existent in Formosa, long-wave receiving sets are common.
On these sets the Formosans listen to broadcasts from
stations both in Japan Proper and in Formosa itself. Em-
phasizing the Chinese heritage of the Formosans, broadcasts
in the Formosan dialect should dwell upon the freedom from
Japanese bondage which a United Nations victory promises.
3. The eventual disposition of Formosa following the
estatlishment of neace is a question which must receive the
most careful consideration. Unlike Koree, Formosa has had
no important independence movement. The wisdom of setting
up an independent Formosa appears doubtful. Not only are
there few Formosan leaders capable of organizing a stable
government but a "return to China" appeal would likely meet
with greater enthusiesm emong the Formosans than the prospect
of independence.
It would appear logical that Formosa should again
become part of China. At the same time the strategic posi-
tion of Formosa makes it of direct concern to the United
States. For our future security in the Pacific, bases in
Formosa
2

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.94)
-11-
Formosa would be of great value. It therefore appears that
a peace settlement wnich placed Formosa under the sovereignty
of China but wnich reserved certain rights to the United
States -- such as the maintenance of air and naval bases --
would be worthy of consideration. However, it is probably
premature to attempt to give definitive consideration to
the question of the future of Formosa.
77.0
FE:EALOn:NHS - MHP

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 22, 1943
The attached is a chronological
outline in regard to Formosa pre-
pared by Mr. Kerr of MIS.
(Copy in 7E)
MWB
FE:B1shop:MHP
MHUBIL
JUN 21943
copy tahe

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.85)
TA.DWAN
ali
 nd or  esdon r
t  mitotered as part of Tuny An prefeoture. 
furtner mention for 2 centuries.
1430
Cme began recarding history of Taiwan. Chinese
affiedal, eumuoh Fan San-ho, driven hore by storm
Bese Coast gold reported to have been unsucoessful.
ESB AND CHINRBE SETTLRMENTS
lat0
júninese pirate hegdquarters on South Formoss; Japanese
cent
pirate headquarters on North Fermesa (Keelung).
159
"The trade thus commenoed by the pirates was regarded by
the (Japanese) nation wish hope and fimally authorised by
894a.014
1603
2609
1635

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.86)
12T91 O0OSUPASTON
1620
Dutch ship wracked peer Taiman. Duteh reseived persdeskes
from Japanese settlement to build a mmall depot. By
subterfuge a large grant of land was sesured.
1622
Dutoh fleet captured the Pescedores, bailt fort, uwas
many sent to Batavie as alarres for sale there.
1622
1623
Chinese afficials of Pakien Provinse epened nesotatdems,
now sotslement at Asping.
1623
1624
1604
2606
1606-1642
Spastih Dandtesn sten ottve as rth Famenn.
2607
-2-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.80)
1.608
Tande returnnd and by treasherene rese salaed the pereen of
Vam ayte' son, Languished, died in Japanese prisoms.
Japanese foroed to quié the ialand entirely.
Fort Providentie, Port Zelandia oonstruoted at Anping and
Tainan (then ealled Taimem).
1629
Spamish osmstrest Pert San Domingo at Tamsui.
0a. 1630
First Chinese rebellion against Dutah rale. Asseck em ealesy
repuleed by Dutch with help of os. 2,000 Chrietden aberiginss.
1636
Riret sebeal on Yormoss estaklisbed by Robers Jaskus. Seventy
bege tenght res alsed veralen of lesal aberigine dlalest.
1699
Five sebeels epens 485 bege emrellad as stadents.
1640
Dateh attaspted to dialedee Spantah from Narth Posmssa
1641
Duteh sens ultimatum to Spandeh et Eealung.
1642
Amgass. Seoend Dutch empeditten agaiuet Spamia. Taou
as refugeee in cosmmie distress.
2.650
As laast 36,00 1nd1idea1 hantdae 11en m Lnt y
Duteh to Chlnese and fow aberigimes.
2662
Eandlagh, with 25, 000 treepe, astestand the Dateh eetelemens vãa
the Fescaderes.
Iure tlt of 600, wth a s f 2,20 .
2668
Duteh opttlted. iue effered re t  e
260m
266m
Rth a rt,  13 he,  to potte .
2068
2460

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.83)
1663
Sals tasturing and land develepent emessreged by Cheng
Chaing.
2666
Keekang finally abandoned by the Dutoh as an unprofitable
station.
1682
Cheng Ching, seoond ruler of dynasty, dies. Suscseded by
12-year old son Cheng Ko-shuang.
PORNOBA CONGUERIED EY HANOHU FOROHE
163
Mansis fleet osoupied Pescsdoree, congesred Fesmess.
July 9. Formosan court oapitulated to Peking goverrmens.
Quelling Dalas. (Nas Ching Kung
.)
2603
Formcse beoemme a Fu ( ) ar a preteotare of Puidam Pre
vinoe. Dévided inte
1. Three beign er districte under civil megistrates
a. Choele(?)
b. Taimam
2.
a. Pangho, in the Pescadores
higher sokool, the gradustes of masah wore to be givem pree
ferment in geverement pests.
160
First rebellion against Manohu ragime, Hesan Distriet Suppresesd.
1701
Rebel1lan Led by Lim Chow (Rya Kyahm) tm Eagi area. Rabel
Leader eaptsred.
1724-15
Entire Laland mapped by Jesdtt miandonerise dllailla, Regls
Campher prodection made a goveramne memopely, exast dste
.1730
Nere than 200 eseouted for vialatdng eampber mseepaly lams.
1222
reastten to campher trade sestrlettems.
Gh taim etre to Peeing and theve erenstsal.
2928

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.89)
5
1727
Gevernmeat Salt Monopoly establisbed. Besh comtrakend
produotion and trade, however.
1730-1770
Constant inter-clan strug les throughout the island.
1721
Aborigine Rebellion, Taikosei and Choka districts.
1231
Formosan-Chinese Rebellion, lod by Wu Fu-sing (Go Fukuse1)
against the Imperial Chimese government, Hosan ares.
1720
Rebellion against the Government led by Hong Chau (Okyo).
Hosan ares.
1771
Count do Benyowaky attempted to create settlement on the
East Coust and to attract support of Europeen Governmemts.
1782
Unparalleled storm devastated west coast settlemente.
1786
Lin Shoam-wen (Lin So-bun), a mative of Chaeagehou, arrived.
Founded sseret sosiety Tei Ti Fui (Tem Shigai) (Bee Davideem
p. 79 for details)
1706
Great Rebellion, which grew out of clan foads, with resestment
toward govermment decisions in favour of ome party or the other.
Prinaipally rivallry botween Chuan-cbon (Senehu) and Cheng
cho: (hoshu) clans.
(N. de Grammont, in letter of 1789 states "Chime lest at least
100,000 men in attempting to put domn this rebelliom...csst at
least 2,000,000 taels". (Davidson p. 78))
1787
Fornosa visited by La Perouse
127
Lia Sheee-wen rsised rebellion, Shoka aree, eaptered merthorm
balf of laland, sot up now govermment. amsd eve Shem Tien
(Jan Toa)
Imperial troops sent over fron mainland. Rebellion put doum
after mime mosths struggle.
1295
Rebellion raised by Chien Che-ekuam (Chin Sha-sem), meéive ef
Rean the resoved his headquarters to narth to youse ald
meabers of seeret sesiety in the Bhoke aree.
100
Pirate Tosh Nen (Sai Xen) Landed as Tamoud, but was Grivem esé
by Imperial troops.
Old elam rivalries flared up. The merthere striete in taml.
Inperial troepe cone from Chtme to restere crdss.
1008
etvil waer gomerelly ane the elams.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.90)
6
2011
Rebollion against governmest, led by a fertume teller, emong
others. Cuickly suppressed.
1824
A rebellion, leeder unnamed, in the Hosan distriet
BUROPRAN CONTACT RENEWED
1824
Pirst efforte by Europeans to reopon trade since the
expulsion of the Dutch in 1662. The Jammaine end the
Harone, which murveyed Keelumy harbor in July.
1826
Clan fighting epread around Chuko (Tionkan) until Imperial
troope had to muppress it.
1827
The ship Dhaulla coasted up the west coast, stopped at Keeluing
and coasted down the east shores.
2830-23
Uprisings and civil warfare having origine in land disputes,
but enlarging into general Bakke vs. Fukienese struggle.
The capital city (Tainan) lost to the insurgente, ome elen
mustering 30,000 troope. Troops Levied in South Chims
provinces to cross and suppress the rebellion against astherisy.
Commissioners and troops dispatehed by Emperer from Peking.
Attempte to revise administration and lax discipline mhich had
allowed the regular garrison of 20,000 troope to mix im trade.
and local affaire. (Dav dson p. 95)
1832
The ship Lord Amberst visited the fest coast.
1833
Canton Register indicate that enmually more then teesty fumbs
carried Fornoman mugar to Tientsin.
1833
Brisish traders first suggest to their goveramems that Fermosn
be takem as a British pessessiom (9. 171)
From 1833 to 18s0 the chosee of & mow Britdsh Par Basters
statlon lay mmong Chusan and Ninapo, Fermees and Renghong.
123
Serious outbreek of inter elan wertare in Besem sree.
1835
Lesal Tamsui literati petitioned Govermeemé to ferted ceal
wining threugh feer of geomsmtle soneequenees.
1841
2042
Glam re. C m Ch.
2049
Tae     l ,  

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.88)
Ship KKIPIA lest. Report that her pessskere were seld
and Thomas Smith (British).
184
Americans visited Keelung, examined coal mines, advooated
opening and development as coaling station.
1850
British plentipotentiary asked the Chinese Government to
open the Xnelumg coal deposits, offering British cooperation.
1850-69
More than 150 foreign veesels wrooked on West Coast. More
than 30 plundered by Pormosan pirates. More then 1000 lives
lost.
1850
Ship LARPINT Lost(British)
1851
Three mrvivers of Lak?ENT wreck, saved, reveal slavery
1851
Formosa visited by  ir Harry Farkes, investigating reperte of
slavery.
1851-52
Americans on the Chine Coast urged the American Minister to
rumore of slavery of Oocidentals on Formosa. No mction takes.
Privste inquiries made and some inquiries through losal afrieials.
1852
Clan wars in four aroas. Hosan and Kagi seimed by insurgebts.
1853
Gideon Mye, 1.S. trader on Chima const, urged U.. Geeam
seourity for the rapidly growing U.8. trade In Chime materte
Peter Parker, U.S. Comalssiomer to Chime, areed m e
advismbility of seisere of part of Fermese (D. 172)
1002
Serions warfare among elame at Chureki and Eagi
1854
Two foreigm (7 Britiah) ships aeohored at Leelang. Ceal
supplies dng out by shipe arew.
Chinese geveremest protested violation of rights.
Bir Nassy Parkes, then Brisish Conesl as Amey, reperted 
eomemtomne of mh a eoal mapply Sor shipe tren asan, amatle
able at a geed anshsrege.
2056
cektmated by Captain Abbet.
206
eapted robellisone agaiact Chinome govaane at Remam nd
Ch teed to tnd d o tho t Cone
2066
2005

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.86)
.10
Tamoul (Nobe) pluskered by popalase in rebellfeme pretect
against eppressive goveramesé.
Amsrican trader-adventurer named Mooney settled at Takso
on a hulk whioh he used as receiving ship for opium.
1858
British Government diapatehed warship INFLExIBLE te Formose
to search for shipwrecked foreigners. Swimhee west along
as interpreter.
1858
Further Chimese attempts to push settlemeste dowm Mast Ceast
Chimese Governmest indirferent.
1858
Formose camphor trade engaged in by Jardine Matheson and Co..
and Dent and Company, out of Hong Kong.
Ms. Reid, Amerioam and Comt Put,iatine, Ruasiam, perauaded
Poking Goveramest te opem pert of Taiman (Amping) to Seralgn
trede.
1899
Spanish Dominisen Missions reestablished on Formosa
1060
Jardine Matbeson Co. and Dent and Co., set up first permmmemt
establishments cn Pormess.
1060-1870
Jardime Mathesen and Dest engaged in opium impert to Pormses,
riee, sagar end eamphor expert.
ea. 1060
Framce and Germany considered desirability of taking Fermess
(D. 172)
1060
Pressien transpert RLBE vieited Bouth Fersess. Lend
destreyed.
Rebert Bwisbee, British, appoinbed firee vieeseensul at
Taimam Gecrge C. P. Brame, assiatat.
1.061
Rebere Besishe wrete a Tereessm tesss ens empiee to vardese
ton imspeotere.
1061, Jaly
Compher enegely shared beteeen Sartiae Nathesen and Sast
.2
2060

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.89)
of ranson by foreignere in aherge of the Custems.
1863
Imperial Chinese Maritime Customs opemed ofrice at Tamsul.
First Commissioner Mr. Howell (British); Sesond Commissiomer
Mr. Schenck, (American)
1864
French engineer, N. Dupont, eaployed by Pooshow arsemal mede
murvey of Keelung coal districts. Tamsui snd Fosshew commie-
sioners of customs petitioned that they be developed efrisially.
Petition denied.
1864, y
Imperial customs office opened at Takao. Mr. Willian Maxwell
in charge.
British obtain recognition of Takmo as am open pert.
Jehn Dedd, trader, establisbed himeelf em the ialand.
1064, Doo.
8.S. BIFIN arrived in Fermoce from Tekebems with genseral
cargo.
1865, Jan.
58. ELFIN returned to Yokoham with oarge of Formosan geods.
1065
Branch office of Takao Custome opened at Anping! . A. Piaksring
in oharge.
1.065
English Presbyterian Miesion established by Dr. Mammell at
Tainam
1865
Rivalry among foreign firme and peivate ware emong Fermeseme
goverwsent.
Guoetlome brought befove Britich and Amarioan Goveramente for
selusiem. (D. 403)
Compantee engaged in caapher trade imeludeds
Leelung.
Suimbee made a fall Consul
Taness end Takse fise! ly epamed to Sorelge reoldente
Praedh lanted d fovese as T to ne ee at
3066

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.89)
of rioting and robbery.
(Dec.) Naval foroes landed at Keelung to rescue the Chinese
servant of an officer.
Naval force landed to punish natives who had plundered a
foreign wreck.
1867
Aborigines refuse to trout with the Chiness or to promise
them seourity such as they agreed to extend to the whites as
the south.
(June) American ships HARTFORD and WYOmIMO landed 181 offieers,
sailors and marines in stteapt to find captive foreigners,
General Le Gendre, consul at Amoy, visited Taimem where the
for aborigine territory and the Mast Ceast.
1867
assuranee of cestrel of aboriginse and piratas would be ed
China to take it. No results. (D. 116)
(Maroh 9) Americen ship Ro wreahed. Captain, hts .
1867
and arew put asore in beate. a11 bot one mardeved hy
at Poking.
(Nareh 26) British meval mhip Commonant went to mearsh fer
survivers.
(Sapeber) Lo Gondro oagdd y a Prenb  d
Vioe-day'e mhip, made eoeond viast to Taiuen.
To tho dleoentitare af loal etfiadala, Ledandre Lnedated
earried ost.
berstheerkty.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.87)
NT
incomparable advantage one would gain in seouring oureelves
against the recurrense of sooh crimes as w had come to
punish." (Roport to Am. Minister at Peking. D. 119)
Steam sammill erected at Swo, timber sont to Focohow. A
few foreigners mettled at Suo.
Two thousand thirty piouls of tee shipped abreed prineipally
for Tait and Co., and John Dodd. Dodd's momt to Macao.
1867
December 18. Great earthquake at north, Keelung harbor
emptied ef water, followed by tidal wave.
1868
1 Amerieam, 1 Geraan, 1 Spanish Mexiees, 1 Ges Pertugusse,
togother with many Pupheen.
Aras twenty milas mouth of swo (Talame en morth to Lamo et
seised part of the Imperial Domain.
1868
Irih risala thereen e warahip, drove ee t 
attemptim to leave.
interfered with.
gumbess proteotion.
with Brittch gabest Jamma.
Attse gre e Pretesteé d Gathelse mis.
Chiasse affladals retessd to heme thste plekgea.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.88)
1868
ever 040, 000 gaarentee or plodee meeer whtah the Britstch
this threat of ferce.
Foreigners at Taipeh and Banka atteoked. American and British
gunboats arrive at the north.
(Loo Chuo Islanders foumd to be imprisoned at Taipeh, wbere
they assisted wounded foreigners to the best of their ability)
Consular desande on Tamsul efficials grarted after thereet of
feroe. Public admonitions to friendship with fereigmere
engraved on stone, met up in the streets of Tameui.
On representation of Prinoe Kung at Poking, British Consul
Gibeon foreed to resign.
1868
French eagineer . DuPont ssveyed ecal res wrees of island
1869
Trial shipment of 213l pieuls of teas direet to Mew York in
two sailing vessels.
1870
Tes trade rapidly expanding: 10,540 pieule experted.
Large market for sagar in Australia opeee meddealys lasteß
about five years.
Last open riots against foreigners es mehs sporadie esthreake
in the morth by Huang-heing olan, whieh attaciked hong of Bagd
and Co., Banka
of their fereigmess.
1070-75
Three large frnk fleets eperated ost of Fooneen, ome godng
regularly ae far merth as the Guls os Lätn.
2071
Fortaigtatly atesn eerylae betueen Portesa and mataland, godng
by wag af Leng Long, Ste, Tand, Tatap nd Jay.
. ds con) roprt tamo tor ly ty 
deropped.
 rte ly ing.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.91)
13
2072
Commission sent up to Tekyo from the Loo Choos, asking for
assistance in punishing the Botans.
Five British trading firms established at Twatutia (Daitotei)
in orth Foruosa.
Dodd & Co.; Tait a Co.; Sllos & Co.; Brown & Co.1
Boyd & co.
Canadian Presbyterian Mission established in North Formosa
by George ackaye.
Attacks on MecKaye and others thereafter remult of intrusive,
aggreusive snd personal actions and local resentment to
strange doctrines.
5,200, 00 pounds of sugar sont to London.
Peking authorities refused in any way to assume responsibility
for east and south cousts of Formosa.
ZIRGT JAPAHRGE KIPEDITIUN PLANNER
Japan laid ssoret plans for e "pumitive empeditiom" to south
Formoss. No foreigmers in Tekyo givem intimmtiom of projest
1873
German schooner wreoked on diyakejims group. Survivers
treated well, given a mhip to take them beek to mative land.
(D. 215)
"In la73 Coumt Kabayame, then a Captain in the Aay, and Me.
(D. 208)
Japanese erganisstion of the Permosn Eapedition earried fuweerd.
1874
(Aperil) "Termese Departaent" establiahed sáth Clabo as heek.
()

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.92)
Lt. James R. Masson, U.. Aray Engineere, made Colenel,
Japanese Army.
Vice-Roy of Fukien addressed protest to Coneul Bendersom at
moy, demanding thut Americans cease aiding the Japamese
expedition.
Hendereon and milliamo, U.. Chargo d'Arruires at Poking
noted officially that the Chinese Governeent did not seem
to oppono the Japanese expedition.
Diplomatic corps at Peking urgod Chinese to opposo the Japanese,
sensing its dangerous precedent.
ingham, U.. Kinist r to Japan, usually pro-Japanese, in
this matter counselled against then. Buropean diplomats at
Tokyo groatly disturbed.
Chinese officialdom at Peking begans to olain authority over
all of Formosa.
Ja, anese at home bagan to propare for war with Chine.
Near-reballion in the Shokn district. Chimese Govermmemt
feared Japanese would find mupport mmong these rebels.
Jupanese merchants at Auo made claims against offieials, whe
now feared that they would seise Suo and join with Shoke rebels
across the hills.
"Before the arrival of the expedition Japanese visiters hed
been very mmerous and now that troops had fellewed it was
thought that every spot previously visised by she Japamese
spies, as they were thought to be, weuld seon be sseupted g
Japanese troops." (D. 153)
(June-July) Japanase troepe In smal1 pasrates explare Canapal
Formose and the East Goast. While in the Karemke distrins
drow plans, mape, took over 100 smmples of soil, to satemlate
ment of local peoples.
(Angust 6) Japanese landings mde et Lng-kies Bay
(Jume 21) Two Chinese men-et mer reested Fermese wish Prem
"obeervers" on board.
(May 29) U.S.. MonAcy tred to    ,
chesrvation" of Japesese eetion.
20m

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.86)
Olmabo sont to Chima to megetiate, with fall posera, Leßemtre
taisen aiang an dviner. Reoskod Paking Saptanber 10.
Japanese ultimatum presented Ootober 10.
Wade, the British Winister, attempts to beeome involved in
the negotiations, but his services were declined by the
Japanese.
Japanese mission began to vithdraw from Peking, wheroupon
Chineme come to tarme.
Indemnity of 500,000 taels agreed upon, to Cover "vhrioms
expeness of the expedition" and to pay consolation money
to families of viotimised Loochuans and survivors of the
1871 party.
(Ostober 31) Terme sigmed.
Payments met before December lst.
Gensral Saigo withdrew wish all feroes (December 3)
Chinese officials oréer destrustion of every vestige of
Japanese esoupation, imeluding reads, bridges, buildinge.
Chimese Governmest stimulated to reorganise end develop
Formese.
David Tysack, miaing expert, engaged to make efficial marvey
of Formesem rescurees.
Shen Pee-ehen, Imperial Comniacéener, revieved eoal repertes
Callforata Stste Lagialature plasnd high Grty an Poresee
sager, effeetually cletng ett tt mrt.
Séteen otora driven avegae reasbed Reeline ren Pollan Lalante
and bems.
1075
(Jeamany) Speetal Toreose Degertmat" Am Tokge Govermmene
enttere Pereese imesdsst.
Poting.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.88)
1876
supervision of Frensh engineer, N. Berthault.
New mining machinery from EngLand, purchased by Tysack,
installed at Hattoshi ("Coal Harbor")
1877
Min at Hattoshi, under Tyaek's direotion, produeed 200
tons per day. Coal harbor jetty and chutes construsted.
Chinese gevermmest decided to deelare sulpkur a Menepoly.
Pits worked in desultory fashion by offieialas illegally
worked by local people.
Governmest desided to exploit petroleum deposits.
(Noy.) First telegraph on Formoes opemed. Takso to Taiman-
fu (Taimen) and to Amping. Total about 30 miles.
Becanse of grewing importanse of foreign trade, Tamsns
mas reorgandsed as a distriet, with a magiatrate and regular
governeent.
First now prefeet ef Taipah-fu Hiang tao (D. 1878)
War with aborigines partioularly severe em East Coast
Rakke commity on Nast Ceast Ia robelllen. Chinese gove
persens.
Spata threatene araed epedisien after fourtese yeare of
(D. 212)
1070
Low prefosturel eapltal ladd cut at tatpah, naar Bantie.
Sesend prefeeteral goveraer - Las Taretmnn (9. 2079)

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.86)
(May) Prefeotural esflees reseved frem Shimskiim to Bantia
and wark en mew capital, Talpeh, begam.
Walls and gates completed.
Examination Hall for ten thoueand students first buildimge
entirely completed. Confuoian temple and Prefeet's yamen
under construction.
Cost of building new capital foll largely on local "contri-
butora" sush as the Lin Family. Lim Pan-bam contriburted
$500,000.
Examination Rall 834,000. Prefect's Yamen 828,060
5maller Government yamen $6,000; Confueian temple and
other shrines $50,000.
First Civil Kxmmimations given.
1000
MesKaye Hospital esteblisbed by Canadiem Missiom.
Far seare. Russia belleved to be ready to attesk. New forte
built (four betweem Tainem and Taipeh). Now fertrees at
Keelung. Takao ferte strengthened.
1801
First Military Exams Grem.
2802
Lighthouses establisbed at Anping
1003
Lighthouses at South Cape (Garambi) and at Tako Bester entramse
ZRAIDG-CNLDINE NAR
1004
Preach ahip vOLTA Visited Keelung. Chinese elow in prevading
ceal. Capttn a ship threstened to Sire en farts.
Trense-Chsasse undeelared map of reprlanis. Peomsn bleoknded
of Wer.
(July) Brittah ganbeat coamonarm asrtved at Tamenl to
proteet foveign cetelement.
Lou Misg etenn appesnted by Paking a Cosmtastemee Fer Pomesn,

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.89)
Resideate Garing alege: L. Prater and wite, Brástah onsl
of foreign firms: 3 Canadian missionaries; 1 Amerieem eer-
respondent (Albert Sutliffe); 1 foreign destor, a Germem.
August 4. Three French warships in port of Keelung when
Ironclad LA GALIE ONIERE ueder Admiral Lespes, and gumbeet
LUTIN arrived. Admiral Lespes immediately demanded sarremder
of forts by 8 A.M. the naxt day.
Governor Liu Ming-ahuan crdered Keelung cellieries Gestreged
to prevent use by the Freneh.
August 5. Chinese refuse to surrender Keelung forts.
Prench opened fire, reduced forts to ruims. Marines landed,
peesession taken of Keelung city.
Angust 4-10. amau1 part entranee mined, game empleeed.
Ballast beats ând junks Loaded with rosks sunk at harber
estrasse.
Chimese esteblisk themeelves behind eartheerke em hills
French and
Fremch unable to damage then er advance inland.
September 24, 25, 26. Freneh warshipe arzived to bleakate
Tameul, chasing aff foreign shipping, bearding and seercking
the Britisk ship WAVERLY.
Oct. 1. Fremsh flest under Adairal Comrbet asrived ef Sameal,
to give metiee of intent to bomberd defemees.
nouth of tad." (D. za7)
viaste for "chesrvatien".
ahige.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.88)
1006
From Cotober coastal lighte around the lsleme were
extinguisbed.
October 15. Freneh men of war appeared off Anping
October 17. Frenoh men of war appeared off Takao
1885.
Deapite close French blockade, Chineue mameged to land
supplies at Pinam (Taito) and carry them overland to
Takao.
1885
Prench foroes at Keelung:
Legion Itranger
971
Battalion Afrique
900
üarin Infantry
350
Blue Jackets
2135
Land feree weder eommend of General Dusebeenes, "Gengeerer
of Madagascor"
Rumored report that Chime tuice effeved to eode Fermene to
Poreigm Ofrice feared a final wholesale partitien of Chime.
(Apri1) Brigish gbeet REnerkaT, commanded by IA. Stmare,
firme.
Poerer elasses of tom Chimese suffered severe privatione
because of Frensh bloekede.
(Mareh) Nills around Kastau, above Temsei, ferairied y
Chinese
Opsum eapteared hy Premah dearing blashade aaid to have been
seld by them to Chinese buyere at Eeelung.
Grome of captured janks set to read-bailaing in and aroume
Keebung.
their hamés.
be Prensh tarvdteey am Apadl l.
April 2. estate ef Desthere Pasmase lirtel.
April 5. Piret meretnt veenel reestae Tumst after bsstits

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.84)
1005
"àn addrese at thanke toe the preteetsen tven to
Ao, through the British Conaul."
Freneh contimed in occupation of Reelung after lifting
the bloekade elsewhere and life restored to normal at
other ports.
Two Frenehmen asssulted Chimese girls. Ome Fremshmem
them oruelly.
June 9. Treaty between Chine and France signed. Arsicle IX
stipulated that Formose and the Pesoadores should be
evaouated. Frenshmen on station overjoyed. Over 700 hed
died at Keelung and wore burled there. 0f these 150 died
of wounle, ethere of discase.
Jase 21. Pressh troops, weder Gemerel Dasskesmes, witb-
dramm from Keelung.
Franse to develop Poscaderes as a pernanant bese. Med
and respest of Chinese residents of Pessedoses.
CHLDIA ARGE TS PROERERIYE POENOSA POLNX
100%
Warfare vith aborigimes contisuemes destrustive broder fires
started to drive them beck iate the hille.
Resonetrwetton of oapita1 at Tatpah advensod. Streete
elestrisity.
2
popalese.
Chiese y t oei e erite .n .
102
Perasse deelared a coparete provisse by Raperlal Desaps.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.89)
1897
stretegis importence of islands.
(Maroh) Upon Govermor Liu's decision to maie Eeslung
a great harbor, work began on railway to link it with
west coast cities.
German enginser named Beoker employed. Gauge 3 feet 6
inohes; rails of 36 lbs. steel; maximm gredient 1:30;
curves of 5 chains minimum radius.
(December) Custome servioes placed under Formosan
Govornor (Liu Ming-chuen)
1888
New capital city projocted near centrally losated Sheks.
Building commenoed. Sharp rise in taxes and govermment
expenditures roused antagonism.
Rickshas introduoed by Gevernor Liu at his owm expense in
Taihokss mupperted by him for some time im erder to establlah
use.
(Karoh) Tolegraph Line completed betmeen Taigam and Tatpah,
Linking Keelung with Takao. Cable laid frem tanesd aerees
Straits to Sharp Peak at mouth of the Mim River im Pukiem.
Formoss thus joined the world's telegraph systes.
1891
Farfare betweem Chinese campher msm and aberiginee meer
Tokobem assumes serious proportions.
(Jume) Lán Ming-ehuan retired frem Gevernerahip beeense
of health.
(Osteber) Taipeh-Keelung Rallreed eempleted (ea. 20 mdles)
south bayond oity oponed for toonky miles.
PROOBESSIYE POLEX ARAREENS
(November25) Sheo Tu-lin asmemed formal eestrel as mes
Geverner.
thee made me attept to. carry et Las's pregressive pregrems.
Governnens clesed its eeel mines, thereafter cbtainteg ceal
frem private simere.
Campher momopoly emse egaim abelishel.
Ratr  r  to  (s)

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.87)
Oetober 21. Shae Tu-lin resigned gevernerehips smseeeded
by treasurer Tang Ching-sung.
SIHO-JAPANESK WAR
1894
August 1, Sino-Japaneee wur begins.
Pirst auriferous reefs discovered; gold bearing quarts
found in Kyufun bills by a Chinese who had worked in
California.
Sulphur exparted totalled 5,950 pieuls (791,850 1bs.)
1895
Araistice and peece negotiatione initiated between China
and Japan. Rusors spread that Forsoss would be ceded as
part of indemnity.
Li lung-eheng sent to Japan to negotiate; expested, 19
poesible, to aveid handing over Fermees.
Armistico declared after murderous attesk upon Li Nung-
chang, Chima's eavoy to Japam.
ZOBNOIA CAREPULLY BIC LIDED RON THBIM GL ANNVION
"No doubt the higher offisiale of the Laland were infermed
af the sigoing of the treaty at Bhimeseeski seom atter so
Plame for a "Rapublso" probably hatabed at Petdng her athls
commiesion.
Nareh 20. Japenese flest arrtved ett Pesestesse.
Mareh 23. Biessbariastion began.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.90)
Regular Chimese effioialdom begem lesving Fosmena.
Rear Adairal Tanake became first Geverner ef the Pessederes.
April. "..The situation became so alarming that the
Governor called a meeting of the Consuls, and informed
them that he had lost all control over his people,
soldiers and others, and unless Poroign Powers intervened
or sufficient foreign protection was provided, as soem as
it was officially kmown that the treaty eeding Posmese to
Japan had been ratified Forméss would be threwm inte e
state of anarchy and rebellion. Furthermere, that he was
umable to protect the lives and irterests of the foreigeers
on the 1eland." (D. 271)
April. British end German consuls appeal fer protestion
to agt as ruardest Tratutia.
"Ameng (the ferees et Tamsui) were now levies of Hake hill
(D. 230)
225
April 22. Chinese moldiere rioted in Taspahs Gevermer'
yamen atteshed in belier that he was about to flee witn
treasury. Troope' pay in arrears.
Apri1 26. Partber rioting intionted thas soldtere woald
not adsst mesh interferense from superier afriesvs.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.84)
1.095
protestien. Ome wellohmoum Chiesess...mas abeelstely
fereed by the mendarine te centribste eme million
REPTRLIE OF FORNOBA (OBTE)
May 23, 1895. Republic deelared.
Manifeste issued to people. Telegrams semt to Barepeem
in China. Memorial telegraphed to the Eaperer at Poking
by the literati:
"The literati and peeple of Pormess are determined
to resist subjection to Japan. Hemce they have
Saered Taing Dymasty." (D. 278)
"The mew antherities belleved that the Republle weuld, is
Perasean toone plecarded wésh prontsss that teoade, Framse
poople.
Nerthera Fereese In an upreer.
31

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.86)
25
May 31. Advanse everland begun.
Li Ching-fang, Imperial Chimese Cemmissiemer, feerfal fa
his own safety, refused to land on Formese to effeet
formal tranafer, Requested the Japemese first te repress
designate Labayama on board ship, Jume 2, afr Samtiam
Point. Commissioners agreed net to resogaise the out-
L1 refused to catalogue Chinase Gevermesss preperty 
permitting the Japanese to draw up their owm memoramdem,
private individnala. Tranafer ef ialand efrieially completed
at 9 p.m. J 2.
Jame 5, 2 a.n. "The yellow Rapsblsoan Tiger anthesed tn
Jume 8. Tamsui oseup1ed by Japanese. (D. 310)
Jume 17. Cerenony of ineuguration of Japenese adminietrstiem
et Taipab.
Piret government erganised on eivil besle soon found me
preetseable.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.82)
1095
cult fer Chimese land ferte to direet fire agnimst ber.
Poreigners ordered to leave Anping: Britioh sest further
troops until 150 marimes were ashore. Women and ohildrem
removed, by Nerwegian ship.
British imorease forees whioh ingluded shipe RpelkasT,
SPARTAN, RATMBOR, PLOWER, all of whIcH eleared fer Betiom
against the Chinese.
Many Chinese fled south Pormosa. Governer Liu extorted
large amounts of treesure from refugees.
July 1. Britieh Admiral Buller gave instrustions for with-
House olesed Jume 29.
BESBLE OF PORNOBA (SOSEL)
2.095
(Jame  d)  higher osfiesala vithdrew fren Tatn.
Nevenens comtimed to heve muppert of Chinsee goveremnt.
New momey Ssssed,
guaranteed ho wealthy poophe ot Tatmen.
Streng Japemese fereee left Shele to eve oustemand tommnd
Ragh attanteadl.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.87)
Takne farte. lasire part foll to Japanese by 4 po.
Ootober 10. Nimeteen traneperte, 3 warskipe left Pessederes
to land at Pateohui.
Approsch of Japanese from three directioms threw Amping
and Tainan into paric.
Ceneral Liu proposed surrender. Negotiatioms prolenged.
seki Treaty be carried out, regarding all people having twe
years in which to deolde ultimate oitisenship.
Daye apent in stripping escaping refugees ef treasure.
Osteber 18. Liu disappeared, essaping te Chine during mi
Octeber 21. Tainen city eesupied, eempaleting operations
164 were estually killed in battle.
The first mave of Japámese treops were welledissiplimes
Imperial Ouarda. Later troope whish eame inte garviess
and over-bearing.
2.095
Late Novesteer. Haktee upriatng meer Totss.
rebel casualsies.
"Thie mae des the begianing at trabiee thseh lasted ats
2.096

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.93)
1896
Inrin, Rate Daihorin all ossupied by rebels; Shaks attecked.
State of siege proclaimed at Taioha. Army deployed ever
countryside with orders to kill all Formosans on sight.
From 7 to 20 people beheaded publicly every day by Japanese
court order.
May 8. Deadline date by which all Formosans net wishing
to have Japanese citisenship must leave the islamd er remove
to the treaty perts.
Leader of rebellion named Kien-i., of Toroku.
Second Brigade put into field. Thirty Chinese villages
destroyed." Japanose casualties 247.
Kien-1 reperted by Japanese to have accepted an affieial
pest. d. 1898.
Ostober 30. Uprising at Taihoku led by Lim Ta-peh. Over
360 "brigands" forced to surrender.
November 19. Chung Ki-sung and asscsiated shiefs atteck
Rosan.
December 27, Revolt at Taiheioho, the tom fortified 
Kwa Tia, one of Kien-i's colleagues. Suppressed by Sesomd
Brigade.
1897
January 10,  osan again attacked by rebels.
May 8. Taihoku attacked by "more them Go0 briganés", weése
leadership of Cheng Teu-giu. Drivem eff by lesel garriesm.
Jume 11. Davideem appointed first U.s. Cemeal at Saibekm
(effieially at Tamsui).
1898
September 21. Taiping Braneh Administrative Offise atteehed.
September 25. Sankyakaku Court House attesked.
1899
Chosbuse Gourt Hnee atteehed by 3,000 "arigamds" led by
Lin Tiee-fu end Lim Shee-miee.
Nay 15. Japasose establish alt epoly. Gost of prds
about t eest in Japem preger.
July 20. Dr. L. Waris Wilkimeem appetmted B.B. vies-eensuk.
Lugast 5. Gampher menopoly eetablisbed by Japamsen.
1900

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.91)
31？1
2900
May. NajeseGemral Tamamaka, at heed of Besond Dtviadang
band.
The Narth gradually became quieter although the cemter end
south of the island remm ined rebellious, for the Govermm
was absorbed in effort to pacify immediate meighborhood
of the capital.
"The proslamations...in Tainen and Taiehu isswed inviting
the brigands to murrender were lacking in dafiniteness,
hence the brigands in those districts failed te slearly
understand the will of the authoritles." (Takakoski p. 98)
By mid-year "the authorities did amay with invitatioms fer
briganda to surrender."
In five months, late 1900, more than 3,000"brigaads" ware
killed. (Takakeshi 99.)
November B. Bokushikyaku Branch Ofriee attasked by Buem
Xiao-sung and his band.
rebels exeouted and 3,473 killed "im the field. The 
victims were unmumbered.
1901
February. Taiohu attacked by Chang A-lui and his Torem bamd.
1902
A general annesty was offered rebele in ceateel Yesmese.
Those who roturasd to village under prendse of mafety ware
cemtrol.
BEGXNDNG CT GRGALTNER E TEOLONNIAL MENSA
1907-1928
1907
Pormoseme in ms jugating the ovngese
1909.
2920

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.93)
30
1911
The same troops campaigmed against Seri-Nouem and the
Atayal tribes is central regien.
1913
A similar campaign made against the Kinani and Atayal tribes
of the North.
1913
The Linohi Rebellion of 1913 had as its fmmediate cause
the felling of bamboo foreste by Mitsui interests, without
edequate recompensation to lecal people.
Rebellion Led by Ra Fukusei; 500 Formesans in the Byeritem
area plotted to seise Taihoku, the capital. Nearly all
wore apprehended and put to death.
1924
Fourth campaign of the offioial "Subjugatiom or Death"
progras, Police and 12,000 troope were empleyed egainet
the 10, 000 members (men, womem and childrem) of the Tarak
tribe, in mountaims beek of Kareake. Ceset Gmasd wmite
bombarded the secessible meuntein villagee frem the see.
1915
Rebellion Led by Lo Chun, and Chu Cheung-hong, aided by
Chinese in Pukiem Provimee. Many peeple prepared to sevels.
Severel thoumand conepirators teok to the field in the south.
Only 51 Japamese were killed, but the Japamese treeps,
to death. An imperial ammesty saved all but 95 frem mseutem.
1915
Meilai-am Revellion, (no detailp).
Suppression of the Dakachal (Assimilatlen Sesiety), fomden
imprisenments.
1918
2929
2902

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.89)
3)
1921
oenstred.
1923
Petitien for representative govermsent was presented to
arthorities an February 2, but suppressed by polies as
"robellious".
Theree af the petitione ra went iamedlately to Tokge, and in
The foumders returned to Formosa December 10, 1923.
1924
Ferty-aine youths arrested; 14 were prosscuted imesluding
1926
1928
(Taimen Workees Uaten) a Merxiet ergand-
3908
1990

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
32
2990
the Nareetses Kemopoly. The Minskske had 17 bremskes.
1991
diasolved, Peb. 26, after having been allomed mo ergem
for publication of its views.
The Taiman Youth Partx, suppressed in Porueee, was reorgani-
sod in Shanghai in 1931. It became the Taiman Amti-
Its members in Formose are periodically rounded up by the
po12oe.
On Mareh 23, a large villago of aborigines near Beito re-
volted. The details are obeoured by cemsorship, but the
Americen consul attributed the revolt to fear of land
1932
progrese of the Shanghai Ineidsut.
1934
1936
2937

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.89)
. (The rid   12 ., the   2 )
1940
An Amarican, living in a Jepanese quarter, mas marmnd
secretly by Formosan friends to get out ef that ares at
the first sign of trouble. A Keslung Formosem-Chimeee
family is kmown to be engaged in gun-running along the
coast. Cautio s hints and allusions by Fornosans indiested,
without supporting facts, that muah subversive activity
was being carried on, frequently with the Chimese temples
as centera.
Two uprisings of non-political origin took place im early
a rice-rations truck enroute to certain minos near Reelung
and killed the guards, making off with the week's riss allew-
anse for the mimers.
Sabotege and internal disturbenses fomented by agente of
the Porwosan Revolutionary Lesgue reperted by Chimese. Twe
mysterions explesione, of great violense, ceomwved in the
viainity of the Matouyame airport during the apering of
1940; mo explanatiom was publisbed.
1940
The Tatmmp laianfane, the effielal publseation ef the
Pormosan Revolutionary League, montaly, appearing im Free
1. Dissrganisation of Pornese's predeetiem ese
commmieation freilities.
Arieem).
3.
4.
5.
6.
1942
A canferenee of the Pereem
aries.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
XSECRETX
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTED
FAF
Departmrut of State
Charge ()
Washington.
1510
HUN RING (ONINA).
SOS
Please ascertain informally and unofficially from
the Chinese Foreign Office whether it is the current usage
894A.014/3
894a.014
in Chinese'official circles to employ in English the name
Taiwan or Formosa.
Hull
(gib)

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.96)
√
TO
CA - Mr. Vinoont
DATE: Apr11 12, 1944
FROM
LA - Mr. Moffat
3
SUBJECT:
At the Inter-Divisional Committee today I raised the
question of whether the Navy should be advised that the of-
fioial American name of Taiwan is "Taiwan" and not "Formosa".
If so, the Navy can begin acousteming itself to this termin-
ology and all memoranda, et cetera, should use it. The
answer was left dependent upon the respense frem a eable
Chungking. Mr. Ballantine stated he thought such astiem
quite unnecessary as Taiwan was the proper mame but had no
objeotion. May I suggest that instead of waiting for the
other oable whioh has not yet gone to the J.C.s. you dispateh
a oable to the Embassy inquiring what offioial English name
the Chinese prefer that we use in official cerrespendemee?
My "stamp oollecting" memorandum will have to await also the
response to your eable.
LA:ALMimeb

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
FORM NO.64
TO
DATE: 4pr11 13. 1944
FROM
SUBJECT:
PROPOSED DRAPT CABLE TO CHUNGKING
AMEMBASSY,
CHUNGKING (CHINA).
Please make prompt inquiry as to whether the Chinese:
Government prefers as the official English version the
name "Formosa" or "Taiwan". Wo will endeavor to secure
uniform official use in accordance with their preference
in post liberation period.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Office of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR DO1944
FROM
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Department of State
AMT-169
Chungking
This tElegram must bE
894A.014/4
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated April 19, 1944
forE bEing communicated
to anyonE. (SC)
Rec'd 1:03 p.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
688, Apri1 19, 8 p.m.
894a.014
Political VicE Foreign Minister states hE believes
"Formosa" is English namE (DEpartment's 505, April 15,
6 p.m.) gEnErally prefErrEd by thE ChinEsE and cites
Cairo declaration as "good authority" for this opinion.
GAUSS
LMS
PS
APR 2 2 1944
DEPART
APR 2 6 1944

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STAT
Officeor
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE LEGAL ADVISER
JUN 1 9 1944
T8 - Mr. Blakeslee
- Mr. Ballantine
MLUNG
My principal purpose, and I presume
that it was also Mr. Long's purpose,
was to avoid any statement that the
sovereignty of Formosa should remain
in Japan until transferred to China.
Your formula in paragraph 4 would
satisry me. It may raise a question
in the minds of some people as to where
sovereignty rests in the interim; that
1s to say, whether in Japan, the United
Nations, the United States, or whether
it is in suspense. I do not think that
1s of importance, nor do I think that
we need have a ready answer for all
questions. The administration of affairs
in Taiwan by our military authorities
would seem to be sufficient for all
practioal purposes.
Green H. (Haokworth
be:GHH:CSS

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
DC/R
PORM ND. 64
4/15744 enw.
TO
LE - Mr. Hackworth
LECAL ADVISER
FROM
TS - r. Blakeslee
FE - ir. Baliantine
JUN151944
SUBJECT:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
With reference to the papers on Formosa which were
presented to the Post-war Program Committee on June 13,
you will recall that Mr. Long objected to the statement
contained in PWC-184, page 1, numbered paragraph 1, that
"The sovereignty of Formosa, however, will remain with
Japan until such time as it is transferred to China by
legal means" (See also PWC-190, page 3, no. 1 under
"Recommendations"), and that in response to a question
894A.014/
by Mr. Long you pointed out that such transfer could
legally be effected by a proclamation of the leading
Allied powers. Mr. Long's proposal was approved by the
Committee. However, from the polioy point of view such
a transfer appears to have serious consequences.
1. Such transfer would be a blow to the Navy, which
is insistent on exercising exclusive and supreme authority
in Formosa as military occupant. The Navy wishes the parti-
5
cipation of Chinese as individuals, provided they are de-
finitely under the authority of the United States Military
Government; it is opposed to sharing authority with China
or Chinese. It is difficult to see how the Navy could
exercise exclusive and supreme authority if the sovereignty
of Formosa were transferred in part to China as one of the
United Nations. After the combat period is over and all
military resistance has ceased, the Navy plans to continue
to administer civil affairs until Formosa is legally trans-
ferred to China. If, however, China shares in the sov-
ereignty of Formosa it will be politically almost, if not
quite impossible, for the United States to resist the pro-
bable demand of the Chinese Government that it share the
authority of the military occupation.
2. The 14 papers on Formosa whioh PWC approved at
the meeting on June 13, as a whole, are based upon the
prinoiple that the United States' forces will exereise the
authority of the military occupant of enemy territory, and
that they will have the right and be under the obligations
and the limitations of military occupation in accordanee
with international law and the provisions of the Hagae 
Convention of l907. If the sovereignty of Formosa should
be transferred at once to the United Nations, ineludingo
China, the new situation would appear to necessitate thes
papers.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
3. The recommendation of the PWC appears not to
be in harmony with the position taken by the Policy
Committee on March 8th that if our forces capture
Formosa, we will assume full and sole responsibility
for military government and civilian administration
until the conclusion of hostilities and until arrange-
ments can be effectuated for the transfer of sovereignty
from Japan to China.
4. To meet the difficulties of the situation,
our suggestion is that the definite statement appearing
in PWC-184 and 190 be deleted to the effect that Japa-
h
nese sovereignty will continue in Formosa until the
island be transferred to China by legal means and that
there be substituted therefor the statement contained
in the Policy Committee paper FE-6, March 8, 1944,
approved by the Policy Committee on March 13, 1944,
that "It is envisaged that our military administration
of civil affairs in Taiwan will continue until suoh time
as Chinese sovereignty in Taiwan is restored." Suoh a
disposition of the matter might not be in conformity
with the mandate of the Post-war Program Committee as we
understood that mandate to call for provision for a declara-
tion such as was indicated by you would achieve the purpose
of Mr. Long's proposed revision referred to in t he first
paragraph above. If, however, you concur in the proposed
disposition, it would seem that the next step would be
for us to see Mr. Long in an endeavor to obtain his con-
currence before clearing that matter again, if necessary,
with the Post-war Program Committee.
We have discussed this proposed disposition with a
number of concerned officers and they have expressed
concurrence.
If you desire, Mr. Blakeslee will be glad to disouss
the matter with you personally at your convenience.
Mr. Ballantine will be out of town until Monday.
g133
J
TS:GHB1akeslee:MP
V
FE:Ballantino:AIM
