894A.4016 Social Matters., People., Formosa. Taiwan, Race Problems. Racial Disturbances, Their Suppression. Massacres. Pogroms., October 31, 1930 - August 12, 1935 (File 874)
ID: 894A.4016-874   Pages: 13   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.4016-social-matters-people-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
RECD DEPT. OF STATE DIV. COM. OF STATE NOV 19 30
File EKT
894A.4016
1/9104.4468
NOV 22 1930
FILED NOV 22 1930

EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 31, 1930.

Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 20 1930
Department of State

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that there was an uprising of several tribes of aborigines in the center of Taiwan, which resulted in the destruction of several villages and police posts and the killing of a considerable number of Japanese and of Formosans of Chinese descent.

According to official communiqués and press despatches, on the morning of the 27th instant, when the entire population of a village were attending the athletic exercises of

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

of the school, a force of about 1,500 armed savages rushed the village and, despite the resistance of the police, virtually wiped out the Japanese population of the village. They appear to have attacked several police stations in the chain which surrounds the savage country, killed a number of police guards, and seized a substantial number of rifles and stocks of ammunition. The cutting of the telephone wires caused considerable delay in news of the uprising reaching the authorities, but it appears that reinforcements reached the locality of the disaster the following day and succeeded in holding the savages in check. Additional forces of police and troops, with light guns and airplanes, were subsequently despatched; and the latest reports indicate that the savages have been surrounded. The press understands that rigorous punitive measures will be taken unless the savages surrender.

Apparently nothing is known of the reasons for the revolt. It was supposed that the savages may have heard of the recent decision of the Government to revive the Lake Candidius hydro-electric project, and resented the loss of lands which would be inundated. The papers state this morning, however, that the uprising was due to the jealousy of the aborigines over the favor with which their women look upon Japanese men. This is undoubtedly an extravagant euphemism. The rules of the savages in Taiwan regarding sex conduct are most rigorous, and infractions are invariably followed by the most severe and cruel punishment. It is, therefore, difficult to believe the explanation, that the savage women considered the establishment of illicit relations

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

relations with Japanese as a source of pride. On the other hand, the low standards of sex morality which prevail in Japan, particularly among the class from which the police guards in Formosa are recruited, make it far more likely that the disaffected tribes have a genuine grievance.

The Japanese administration has had no serious trouble with the aborigines in seven or eight years, and it was thought that the policy of pacification and of education had forever removed any possibility of a revolt. It is true that the present uprising is a local one, but, at the same time, the killing of probably several hundred Japanese has been a rude shock to the nation's satisfaction over the policy pursued thus far. This would seem in principle to be an enlightened and just one, but the manner in which it is carried out, particularly where it touches the customs and laws of the aborigines, probably leaves much to be desired.

Respectfully yours,

W. Cameron Forbes.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.92)
53.
294A 4016
Division of FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS DEC 4 1930
File
E.E.

AMERICAN CONSULATE
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, November 7, 1930.

SUBJECT: Certain Features of the Recent Uprising of the Savages in Taiwan.

CONFIDENTIAL
THE LEGISLATIVE ASSESSMENT
SUBMITTED BY
JOHN P. DUNN
JOHN P. DUNN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to report to the Department regarding a recent uprising of certain tribes of aborigines which occurred in the vicinity of a town named Musha about 160 miles from Taihoku and which has occupied considerable space in the public press in Taiwan as well as in Japan Proper. In view of the widespread publicity given to this incident as well as the fact that no foreign nationals were involved, it was not deemed necessary to report telegraphically to the Department.

From the beginning of the uprising on the night of October 26, 1930 until the present time, Japanese Army airplanes have played a prominent part in the expedition to subjugate the rebellious savages. At first this branch of the army was used only in reconnaissance work, but was soon after that employed in dropping explosive bombs. A strict censorship has been placed on all information regarding this uprising and certain paragraphs in local vernacular papers believed to refer to the use of poison gas bombs by airplanes in the punitive expedition have been deleted but from the context as well as current rumor there seems to be little doubt that poison gas has been or will be utilized.

During an official call upon the Governor General of Taiwan,

FILED DEC 5 1930
D. C. C.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

Taiwan, the subject of the savage uprising came into the conversation and His Excellency stated that the Japanese officials were at a loss to ascribe motives to the uprising. He advanced the theory that it might have resulted from one or both of the following causes: first, dissatisfaction among the savages because higher wages were being paid to Taiwanese laborers working jointly with savage laborers on a building project in the vicinity of Musha and, second, animosity aroused among certain of the savages by alleged immoral relations between some Japanese policemen and savage women. Up to the present time nothing of a definite nature can be given as to the underlying motives of the uprising.

Although it has not been stressed in the public press, it has been heard on good authority that over one hundred Taiwanese were known to have left the vicinity of Musha immediately before the massacre started on the morning of October 27th and passed unharmed to territory outside of the fighting zone. From all indications it is evident that this uprising is directed solely against the Japanese and that no hostility exists in the minds of the savages against the Formosan-born Chinese residents.

Respectfully yours,

Whitney Young
American Consul.

800
WY:TKH

In triplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

2 Carbon Copies
Received F.P.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.93)
RECD
U.S. IMMIGRATION SERVICE S.F. CAL.
1930 NOV 6 PM 1
DEPT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
FEB 8 1931
3rd ASST SECRETARY
FEB 8 1931
3rd ASST SECRETARY
FEB 8 1931
3rd ASST SECRETARY
894 A. 4016/3
100

No. 58.

AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taiwan, Taiwan, Japan, December 9, 1930.

SUBJECT: The upbringing of savages in Taiwan.

SIR:

I have the honor to transmit to the Department certain matters in connection with the uprising of a number of villages of the Tayal tribe of aborigines which occurred near and in the town of Musha, supplementary to Despatch No. 53 from this office dated November 7, 1930. Although the incident is more or less of local and Japanese interest and in nowise affects American and foreign interests, it is deemed pertinent to outline briefly the information contained in numerous articles appearing in the local press and the gist of conversations with various persons, both official and private.

The causes of the uprising, which resulted in the massacre of some 197 men, women and children, have not as yet been determined but the following motives have been assigned as bearing upon such a determination: (1) Dissatisfaction among the savages because of a lower wage scale than that in force for Taiwanese laborers doing the same class of work coupled with efforts upon the part of the Japanese to compel the savages to enter into employment - recruited labor in lieu of taxes; (2) Animosity engendered among the savages by alleged immoral relations between certain Japanese and savage women and augmented by a number of divorces obtained by Japanese from their savage wives who were consequently returned to their native villages; (3)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

(3) Fear of punishment on the part of Monaldao, an influential chief considered to be the leader of the rebellion, for his severe handling of a policeman who refused to drink with him upon the occasion of his son's wedding; (4) Uneasiness and misunderstanding caused by the frequent changes of police officers in the savage areas, these police not understanding the language, customs and habits of the savages, and hence being unsympathetic with their problems.

Inasmuch as the rebellion showed considerable organization, it is not believed that any one cause can be assigned thereto, but that the underlying motive consists of a series of grievances, extending over a number of years, and which were brought to a head by one or all of the above stated causes. There seems to be no doubt that many remote causes exist, some with just reason, among which the harsh subjugation measures of Governor General Sakuma some 17 years ago and the depriving of the savages of their rifles, a means of livelihood, figure prominently. Director General Hitomi in reporting upon the "Musha Affair" to the Tokyo Government proffered this as one of the views of the present administration, although he stated at the same time that the Taiwan Government General was not prepared to assign any certain motive or group of motives without further study.

It is fairly certain that head-hunting, as such, although resorted to during the brief rebellion as a consequence to the first overt act and shedding of blood, was not the primary consideration. That the promiscuous head-hunting practised during the rebellion was no more than a result of the first killing and the consequent stavism aroused by the sight of blood is the expressed opinion of many. Otherwise it would be hard to explain the numbers of

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

of Formosan Chinese who were, according to all reports, warned and allowed to leave the affected area as well as the non-attack on members of other savage tribes. The head-hunting practised during this revolt has furnished, however, an unfortunate example, even as crimes of a peculiarly atrocious nature are followed by similar crimes, inasmuch as on the 27th of November two savages of the village of Budai near Heito attacked and beheaded a Taiwanese coolie, undoubtedly a psychological reaction under the stimulus of the revolt at Musha.

Regardless of the motives assigned, and nearly all those mentioned are more or less based upon grievances aroused by the Japanese administration, the "Musha Affair" will no doubt serve as a weapon in the hands of the Seiyukai Party at the next session of the Imperial Diet. An influential member of this party spent a considerable time in Taiwan towards the end of the period of fighting and, although denying such a purpose, is believed to have gathered together such information as will reflect the responsibility of the Tokyo Government. Certain officials of the Taiwan Government General will be required to resign in anticipation of answering interpellations in the Diet. Among these are Chief of Federal Police Ishii, Governor Midzukoshi of Taichu Province, and various officials in these departments. Director General Hitomi is at this time in Tokyo consulting with the Minister of Overseas Department as to the measure of responsibility.

Mr. Morita, Chief of the Savage Division of the Government General, and Mr. Ikoma, Chief of the Bureau of Superintendance of the Overseas Department of the Tokyo Government, have also conducted surveys, possibly in anticipation

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
-4-

anticipation of an attack on the Government in the Diet and to prepare an answer thereto, but their statements have been specious in the extreme, both looking to immediate activating causes rather than to fundamental motives.

Another feature of the "Musha Affair" has been the alleged criticism of the military in Taiwan by General Hishikari, former Commander-in-Chief of the Taiwan Forces and now Commander-in-Chief of the Kwangtung Forces, who is reported as having intimated that the disposal of troops in the savage districts immediately prior to the uprising was unwise and that the quelling of the rebellion was needlessly slow. General Watanabe, the present Commander-in-Chief, was extremely indignant at these reported statements and in an interview with the press went into great detail with regard to refuting these charges, stating further that if the remarks of General Hishikari were as reported he would demand a cancellation thereof. There is some degree of truth in the first charge inasmuch as just prior to the revolt a great deal of publicity was given to the fact that most of the troops had been withdrawn from the savage districts, "the savages having been subdued and a large number assimilated into peaceful inhabitants". To the charge that the military have been needlessly slow in subduing the rebels there is not much basis, the military having, on the whole, conducted themselves well in keeping with the traditions of the Japanese Army. There were only a few incidents which did not redound to the credit of military efficiency, such as sending out machine guns with no bullets, airplanes with no bombs, shortage of provisions, etc.

Of the uprising itself the following brief summary covers the situation. The villages of Mahebo, Tarowan, Hogo,

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-

Hogo, Rodofu, Kattsuk, Takanan, Boarn, Sook, Fakasan, and
Fukebon were involved, comprising a total population of
1,552, of which number approximately 372 men were active
in the rebellion. On the night of the 26th of October an
attack was made on outlying police stations and on the
morning of the 27th Musha was the scene of a massacre,
approximately 70 per cent of the Japanese population being
slaughtered. Troops and police were rushed to the district
and within less than 20 days the greater part of the re-
bellious savages had been killed or captured, excepting
a few groups of savages who had retreated into the fast-
nesses of the mountains. Considering the nature of the
terrain and the good organization of the savages, the putting
down of the uprising was remarkably expeditious and the
loss of life among the troops and police remarkably low.
Mountain artillery and airoplanes figured in the fighting,
the latter, however, not being feared by the savages as
might be expected, according to a statement made by one of
the savages taken prisoner.

While current rumor indicated that the Japanese used
or planned to use poison gas bombs, the secrecy and censor-
ship surrounding the activities of the military expedition
prevents any determination of the truth or falseness of the
rumor. In view of the fact that the fighting took place
in mountain valleys where such gas would gather and ex-
terminate large numbers of savages within a very short
period it would seem that no such means of offensive
warfare were used. Another feature which might be sus-
ceptible of an interpretation unfavorable to the Japanese
military and police, is the report from the military and
police as to the finding of the bodies of savage men, women
and children, generally hanged, upon the occupation of
each

=== Page 11 === (confidence 1.00)
-6-

each savage stronghold. Although the Tokyo Government ordered the avoidance of retaliatory measures, certain persons have expressed the belief that many of these deaths (executions) took place at the time of occupation and at the hands of the Japanese as a measure of terrorizing the rebels rather than as a series of suicides such as the military and police would have the public believe. This of course can be only a matter of conjecture, although it does seem strange that literally hundreds of women and children were found hanged and strangled. It is also reported in the press that a price of yen 5,000 was placed on the head of Monaldao and varying sums on the heads of lesser chiefs.

Notwithstanding this revolt and the many causes, remote and present, which have been assigned thereto, the general plan of savage administration will be continued substantially as before, with possible changes affecting the recruiting and payment of savage labor. Expressions by various Taiwan Government officials indicate their faith in the present policy and their great hesitancy to attribute the uprising to any fundamental defects in this policy. The House of Peers in Tokyo has, however, indicated that, in its opinion, the Taiwan Government General has failed in its administration of the savages and that, therefore, changes in the general policy must be made.

At the time of writing this despatch the majority of troops have been withdrawn from the Musha area inasmuch as only a few scattered bands of savages have not been subdued or slain. These stragglers have retreated into distant and well-nigh inaccessible mountain regions and constitute little menace to the general public safety but remain

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-

remain as an active problem in certain of the savage districts. The recovery of rifles and munitions, now in savage hands, is another problem of moment.

Respectfully yours,

Charles S. Reed II
American Vice Consul.

File No. 800
CSR:TKH

In triplicate to the Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 12, 1935.

MEH:

The attached despatch, No. 4 dated July 8, 1935, from the Consul at Taihoku, describes an official reception which he gave on the Fourth of July. It was apparently a very successful function.

The Consul complains that he sweltered in the heat because he was obliged to wear morning clothes, whereas the Japanese officials and foreign consuls "looked very cool in their white dress uniforms". I understand that a Congressman presented a resolution today which would forbid American Foreign Service officers abroad from wearing anything but "standard American attire"!

HAND-DLY
