894A.463 Entertainment In Formosa. Taiwan., Formosa. Taiwan, By Resident Officers Of The United States., July 8, 1935 - July 7, 1936 (File 918)
ID: 894A.463-918   Pages: 11   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.463-entertainment-in-formosa-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
894a.463
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, July 8, 1935.

SUBJECT: Observance of Fourth of July.

INDEX BUREAU REC'D AUG 11 1935
DEPT OF STATE
AUG 11 1935
FILED

894A.463/2
FILED
AUG 15 1935

SUBJECT: OBSERVANCE OF FOURTH OF JULY.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to refer to Section 438 of the Consular Regulations, and to enclose herewith a copy of the response made by me to a congratulatory address delivered by the Director General of Taiwan on the occasion of an official reception at the Consulate on July 4 last past.

The Fourth of July was observed this year at Taihoku by a so-called official reception in the residence quarters of the Consulate in the morning from 11:30 to 12:00, and by an "At Home" in the afternoon from 4 to 6.

After consulting with the Foreign Secretary of the Taiwan Government General, invitations were extended, in addition to the foreign consular corps, to about thirty of the highest ranking officials of the Taiwan Government General and to the commanding officer of the Army forces in Taiwan to an official reception. All those invited attended. At the appointed hour all gathered around the dining table. First the Director General delivered a congratulatory address in Japanese which

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

which was translated by the Foreign Secretary. I then responded with the short speech a copy of which is enclosed, which was translated into Japanese by Mr. Matsue, the Consulate's interpreter. The Director General then proposed a toast to the President. Following the drinking of this toast, I proposed a toast to His Majesty the Emperor. A short interval was then allowed to permit the guests to eat and to drink more champagne, after which one verse each of the national anthems of Japan and the United States, respectively, were played from an adjoining room. At this juncture I should like to mention that all the officials and the foreign consuls looked very cool in their white dress uniforms, I alone having to suffer through the function in heavy morning clothes with the temperature hovering around 90 degrees in a climate probably the most humid in the world.

That afternoon the Consul and his wife were At Home to which invitations had been sent to about 170 persons, including the leading government officials and their wives, members of the foreign colony, and prominent business men and their wives. About 100 attended all told, among which were about thirty wives of the Japanese officials. An especial effort had been made to get the Japanese ladies to come, my wife having previously called on the leading officials' wives, since for the past ten years the too infrequent local observances of the Fourth had been confined to

official

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

official receptions at a hotel to which only men had been invited.

The residence quarters of the Consulate with two reception rooms, dining room, and a large enclosed verandah which are all connected with double doorways provided ample space for such an entertainment. Due to the extreme heat in Taiwan at this time of the year, a large block of ice weighing 250 lbs. into which floral decorations had been frozen was placed in each of the rooms mentioned as well as on the verandah on specially prepared stands around the base of which flowers were banked. Behind each block of ice an electric fan was placed. While it is not known whether this materially lessened the temperature of the rooms, they looked very cooling.

Respectfully yours,

Edward S. Maney
American Consul.

Enclosures:
1. Copy of speech.
2. Specimen invitation.
3. Translations from newspaper.

File No. 645
E&amp;M/tkh

In triplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

Received, read and forwarded without comment.
American Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY

Your Excellency and Gentlemen:

I want to thank each of you for the honor you have done me by your presence here today, and you, your Excellency, for your very kind words of felicitation.

I say without hesitancy that your hope for cooperation and understanding between Japan and the United States and for a continuance of the traditional friendship which has always characterized our relations with one another is sincerely echoed by every thinking American. At this time when the paramount interest of every nation should be to find ways and means to alleviate the pitiful condition of the poor within its borders and to make provision for their economic security in the future, nations should strive for a permanent basis of lasting peace, for it is only under the blessings of peace that social progress can be made.

Again I want to thank you for coming here today.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
The American Consul and
Mrs. Edward S. Maney
At Home
American Independence Day
Fourth of July
nineteen hundred and thirty five
from four to six o'clock

American Consulate
Taihoku

R. S. V. P.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
OFFICIAL RECEPTION ON AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY JULY 4.

An official reception was held on the 4th, American Independence Day, from 11:30 A.M. at the American Consulate at Onari-cho. There were present General Terauchi, Commander-in-Chief of the Taiwan Army, Director General Hiratsuka, all bureau chiefs, chiefs of courts, Governor and Mayor of Taihoku, foreign consuls, etc. Director General Hiratsuka delivered a congratulatory address in which he said that the friendly relations between Japan and the United States are traditional and that this bond contributes to furtherance of the world peace and welfare of mankind. American Consul Maney replied, stating that the Director General's hope for continuance of the traditional friendly relations between the two countries was sincerely echoed by every thinking American. At noon national anthems of the two countries were played, which ended the reception. At Home will be held at the consulate in the afternoon from 4:00 to 6:00 P.M. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo July 4, 1935 - Evening Issue)

AMERICAN CONSUL AND MRS. EDWARD S. MANEY AT HOME ON AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY.

The American Consul and Mrs. Edward S. Maney were At Home on July 4, American Independence Day, at the American Consulate at Onari-cho from 4:00 to 6:00 P.M. There were present Director General Hiratsuka, all bureau chiefs, Governor and Mayor of Taihoku, foreign consuls, prominent business men including foreign community, etc. Most of the guests were accompanied by their wives. There were approximately 90 guests present. Consul Maney, Mrs. Maney, and Interpreter Matsuo received the guests. Glasses were raised in congratulation, and the guests enjoyed conversations. The party ended at 6:00 P.M., the guests leaving whenever they pleased. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo July 5, 1935)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
1 A
894A.463/3
FILED AUG 14 1936

AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, July 7, 1936.

SUBJECT: Observance of Independence Day.

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.

WASHINGTON, DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION

I have the honor to refer to Section 430, Note 1, of the Consular Regulations, directing that copies of speeches made by diplomatic and consular officers be submitted to the Department, and to enclose herewith a copy of the response made by me to a congratulatory address delivered by the Director General of Taiwan on the occasion of July 4 last.

The Fourth of July was observed this year at Taihoku by a locally so-called official reception, or more specifically described as a champagne-lunch, at the Consulate from 11:30 a.m. to noon, which was attended by the highest ranking local officials in addition to the foreign consular corps and the male American residents of Taihoku. The Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo, Taihoku leading newspaper, sent a photographer to take a picture of the ceremony which they ran in their next succeeding issue together with a short write-up, a translation of which

RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1936 AUG 10 AM 15 51

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 11 1936
Department of State

FILED AUG 14 1936

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

which is enclosed.

Members of the foreign community were entertained from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. at the Twatutia Foreign Club. The expense of this later function was shared between two other Americans and myself.

Respectfully yours,

Edward S. Maney,
American Consul.

Enclosures:
1. Copy of speech;
2. Translation of newspaper article.

ESM/tkh
File No. 845

Original and 2 copies to Department;
1 copy to Consul General, Tokyo.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
Excellency and Gentlemen:

I should like to thank each of you for the honor and pleasure you have given me by your presence at this very modest observance of the one hundred and sixtieth anniversary of the birth of America as a nation, and especially you, your Excellency, for your very kind words of felicitation.

It is a point of pride with Americans that our country is one of the oldest friends among Western nations of the Great Empire of which I am now a guest. During the years which have passed since Commodore Perry's visit to Japan, the relations between our two nations have been characterized by a mutual desire of good will born of a traditional friendship. There have of course sometimes been differences of opinion, which unfortunately too often arise between all nations, but the fundamental basis of our relations both as nations and as individuals has been, and I sincerely hope will always be, in which I am confident you join with me, one of warmest friendship.

Again I want to thank you for coming here today.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 1.00)
AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE DAY - RECEPTION AT THE AMERICAN CONSULATE ON AN ELABORATE SCALE.

An official reception was held on the American Independence Day, July 4, from 11:40 A.M. at the living quarters of the American Consulate at Onari-cho, Taihoku. There were present Director General of Administration Hiratsuka and all bureau chiefs.

At the scheduled time Director General Hiratsuka made a congratulatory address, which was translated in English by Secretary-Translator Koshimura. Mr. Maney made a reply speech, which was translated into Japanese by Interpreter Matsuo.

Upon arrival of Commander-in-Chief of Taiwan Forces Yanagawa the Director General proposed toast to the President of the United States, and then the American Consul proposed toast to His Majesty the Emperor of Japan. The "Kimigayo" (Japanese national anthem) and the American national anthem were played on records. The reception was a success and ended past noon. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo July 5, 1936)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BUREAU OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

FA: Suggest that you send a copy to the Red Cross.

M.M.H.

Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 25 1935
Department of State

James W. McClellan
June 13, 1935
