894A.114 Regulations Governing, Formosa. Taiwan, Traffic In Liquors And Habit-Forming Drugs. Each Subdivision Will Be Made A Separate Case., February 16, 1931 - March 17, 1939 (File 1086)
ID: 894A.114-1086   Pages: 200   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.114-regulations-governing-formosa-5
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
Jopy to Department of State)
Politioal Report
(Voluntary - Confidential)
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
28 1930
Frle
Denartment of Stats
2
Subjeot: Granting of new opium
licenses in Taiwan.
From:
Vice Consul
Charles S. Reed II
4
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan. Date of completion: April 30, 1930.
Date of mailing : April 30, 1930.
2

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
Aocording to the Nichi Nichi Shimpo of April 22nd, the
Taiwan Government General, after lengthy consultations with
the Tokyo Government, has reached a decision as to the grant-
ing of new licenses to secret opium smokers. The 25,527
applioants for licenses have been grouped into three classes,
6,200 being clansed as unaddicted, 12,157 being classed as
partially addicted and hence to be disposed of by administra-
tive measures (compulsory hospit lization), and 7,170 being
classed as confirmed addicts. This last class of over 7,00o
will be required to undergo further medical examination, the
results of which, as regards the actual granting of licenses,
will be published by the end of June, or sooner if the neces-
sary arrangements can be made.
Mr. Ishii, Chief of the Federal Police of Taiwan, who
has delayed his intended departure for Tokyo pending the
settlement of a fundemental opium polioy, is quoted in the
Nichi Nichi himpo of the same date to the following effect
regarding the new licenses:
"Since the Taiwan Government published in Deoember
last a statement regarding licenses and cure of
opium smokers, 25,527 applications have been
received. These applicants have been examined
administratively and medically at respeotive
government (local) offices and classified into
three oategories. Those diagnosed as unaddicted
will be advised and ordered to totally abstain
from amoking, 12,157 who are comparatively
slightly addioted will be compulsorily cured at
hospitals, and these who have been diagnosed as
heavy addicts will be, for greater care and
rigidness, further examined at the Government
General, and then licenses will be granted to
those who should continue smoking, the others
will be compelled to enter hospitals for cure
of the evil habit. Further examinations will be
enforoed on applicants in Taihoku Province; those
in other provinees will be examined in order.
What I wish to explain in conneotion with the
decision is that the licenses are to be granted
to only those who have characteristies which
render total prohibition intolerable from
humanitarian standpoint, and that the licenses,
however, are not absolute granting of privileges;
the licenses may be revoked or the licensee may
be put into hospital whenever reasons for sueh
11eens0s

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
licenses disappear. In the near future former
licensees will all be examined and proper steps
will be taken. The spirit of the polioy is
applicable to former licensses likewise. These
who are slightly addicted are considered ourable
and they are advised to volunteer themselves
to medioal treatment in order to get rid of the
evil habit as speedily as possible. Those who
will be given warning against smoking are not
yet addicts, and they do not absolutely require
either smoking or medical treatment. Therefore
we must request them to totally abstain from
smoking opium, as we must deal with them by
punishment if they smoke opium. We have built
a hospital in Taihoku accommodating about l00
patients, and with proper equipment and accommoda-
tions at Government hospitals in various pro-
vinces we plan to cure all these who have been
ordered compulsory treatment within three years.
New licensees will also be subjected to medical
treatment according to needs. Thus the steps
to be taken against seoret smokers prior to
enforoement of the revised opium law have been
established, and the shadow underlying the Taiwan
opium system for many years has been cleared
up. Hereafter,in order to more strictly enforce
the revised opium law the police force will be
strengthened and the customs service will be
expanded, and smuggling, illicit deals and secret
smoking of opium will be thoroughly controlled,
to the end that there will be no opium smoking
in the not distant future. For this purpose
support and cooperation from society are neces-
sary of course. We hope that the public will
sinoerely assist the Government with full under-
standing of and goodwill toward the efforts of
the authorities. This opium question is not
the only conoern of Taiwan but is important as
the problem of the mankind throughout the world.
Every country is taxed with settlement of this
problem, but no country seems to have a system
much to be learned therefrom. However, in
Taiwan good results have been obtained under
the ideal system for many years, and to this
the new polioy of medioal cure, whioh is the
backbone of the revised law, has been added to-
ward settlement of the problem. This has added
an epoch-making lustre to the history of the
system of opium control, and I am pleased to say
that it will not only contribute much inter-
nationally but also assist in the advancement
of welfare of the mankind."
811.4
CBR1TXH
Origimal to Rabassy, Tokyo.
A true covy of
Gepy to Department of State.
the signed irig-
Copy to Department - For the
inal.
SX34
Files of the Commereial Offiee.
A c/c
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.91)
(Copy to Department ofAStatEdD
Political Repert
SURE
(Valmtary-
2
3
5
6
Division of
FAG BASTERA APPANS
AUG 14 30
AUG 15 1920
file
894A.1
UUPLIUM
Subjest: Opium Lieenses.
Frem
Viee Consul
Charles S. Reed II
Tathaia, Taiwan, Japan. Date of Preparation: July 22, 19so.
Date of Mailing : July as, 19se.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
Licenses 1ssued.
The result of the medioal examination of secret opium
smokers who applied for licenses under the revised opium
poliey of the Taiwan Government General has been announeed
by the Bureau of Federal Police. According to an article
appearing in the Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo on July 17, the
number of new licenses to be granted in eaoh provinoe and
the findings with regard to those addiots who are not to
receive licenses are as follows:
Provinee. Licensed.
Trea tment.
Absent.
Deaths.
Taihoku
1,663
366
27
45
Shinchiku
949
167
28
37
Taichu
1,152
264
21
46
Tainan
839
170
4
25
Takao
720
334
34
51
Taito
47
15
4
Karenko
95
29
5
Hoko
21
2
Total
5,486
1,347
123
205
Note.
There is a disorepanoy of 9 between the total set
forth above and the total said to have been olassed
as confirmed addiots as a result of the previous
examination and olassification.
The number of seoret smokers who applied for l1censes
at the time of initiation of the revised opium polioy was
25,527, of whom 7,170 were classed as addiots but who were
subjeeted to further medical examination (table given above),
12,l56 were classed as l1ght addiets and were ordered to
take medical treatment under penalty of punishment, and
6,z0l were alassed as non-addiets and were warned to abstain.
From the above 1t would seem that the authorities were
making an effort to control opium moking. Several points,
hewever, will need a considerable period of observation
before a definite statement as to the bone fides and success
of the revised poliey ean be made. Thus it is queried as
to the extent and striet supervision of the medieal treatment
preseribed for the 18,l56 mlight addiets; 1t is alse
questioned

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
questioned as to the effioaoy of the advioe and warning
meted out to the 6,20l persons olassified as non-addiots.
Rumors regerding narootios.
Several unconfirmed rumors have been brought to the
attention of this office. It was reported that several
thousand licenses were issued at the time of announeement
of the revised opium poliey and before the plan of freely
issuing lieenses to secret smokers, under this revised
poliey, was brought to a halt at the instanoe of the Central
Government, by the unfavorable publioity given at that time,
and by the necessity of appearing in the best light possible
during the visit of the delegates from the League of Nations.
It is now rumored that those licenses were never revoked
and these thousands are now accepted as licensed smokers.
Another rumor deals with morphine addiction. Doctor MoClure,
at the time aoting as head physician of the Mokay Memorial
Hospital in Taihoku, stated that while in Shinchiku he was
informed by one of the leading Chinese doctors that morphine
was entering into that distriot in large quantities and that
many containers bore official Japanese stamps. This Dootor
Bung(?) also stated his belief that morphine addiotion was
on the inerease because of the ready availability of the
drug, especially in that distriot.
What eredanee should be given these rumors cannot be
stated at this time. This office hopes to be able to
thoroughly investigate the situation at a later date. For
the pregent the opinion that there is some truth in the
seeomd rmor, that dealing with morphine, may be vouehsafed.
ther nlane et the Falarl Polieee
The Bureau of Feferal Poliee has recently anmounsed
that it plans a series of medieal exmimations of these
persens previously lieensed as epiwe mmokers and that
those

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
these examinations will determine how many of those mmokers
will be carried on the list as ohronic smokers, how many
ordered to take medical treatment, and how many forbidden
to smoke.
811.4
CSR: TKH
Original to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Department of State.
Copy to Department - For the
Files of the Comeroial Office.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
A tru c
the signed
inal.
SK04

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.
.11
893.114 Narcotics/192
No. 70
SEE
FOR
4
NARCOTICS
FROM
Taihoku, Taiwan
(
Heed
) DATED
Feb. 16, 1931.
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING: Case of alleged opium smuggling charged against the
SAGARA MARU, is to be tried in Taiwan.
1
9
MN

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.87)
QUATE
Taihoku, aiwan, Japan, February 16, 195l.
subjeet: Opium augcling case to
be tried in Taiwen.
THOHOHORALE
.2
8IH:
I hove the honor to re ort that oium s wg ling into Chimm
by a Jepanese ship has boen rooertly éiccloned by artiale
appearine in ourrent issuce of the loonl oress and that the
trial of the mnster of the ship  al othere involved in this
ease will be held ahortly in ni wan, presamably in Taihoku.
Lecording to ho newepaner eoouunts, it voul som as though
both the chinose nd Ja enese coveriv ats have boen supressine
details of this offair am that the infometion conoerning the
arfair mas obtainod xd published by certain news aeencies prior
to govorment annotion.
From these mocounto the s1tuetion reeolveu itself into the
followi. statomont of fast. A certein Japenese fim was
1nstrumental in introduoing Chinose oustomors, intimated os being
commeeted with the Chinese Cover ment, to s souroe of supply
of opium. The purohase wan mnde of opiun velued et yen 2,500,000
or at a Canton mmikot valuo of yon 10.000,000. This opiwm w
shipped from a port in the Parsien Gulf on a Japanese stemmer,
the Sagare Hare. while preccodime to the Gtlnese pore, the
vessel was dissovered and pursued by a nateh revenme ship,
imfermettem as to the shiyment ho simg beem obtained in some
undiselesed munner, but eseaped. Duriry the chase it is stated
that the Japanese shiy firms flem the Chimoee flag but later
koss ted

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.87)
-8
heisted the Jupanese flas. The vutoh Goverment, being
motified, infomed the League of Nations ee to the situa-
ten and, emamating from that souree, the oreigm Office
In Tokyo mms advised. Üpon reeeipt of this ndvioe, the
Japancse authosdtis lis ntn wure warrwd to intercept the
vessel out the opiu uos to ive been landed at Whan (),
below Centon, and the Sagnra aru arrived in centom without
any careo. xariration cf the master and other ofricers of
the ahip by the Jusss ncular authritien in Canto
dovelopod tio situation au outliued. Burroundins ciromstanoes
malding a trial in canton undesiraale, it mas deoided to trans-
rur tho onso io Taivan aunù liw vaiious dofendants, negompanied
by Japanese Vioe consul Yano  si oonsuler polioo, arrived in
Takmo on the Delhi art.
Although this in ondy a wmmegling onse, the sime or the
mhipmont, the imputetion of connivenoe upon the part of certain
Chinese Goverrmnent effiainle, the alleged chenee of fles
from Chincse to Japanese during the course of pursuit, and
tho complieity of oertain Jupenese in promoting the purehase,
make the progress of the oese tnd trial of more tham passing
isterest.
This offiee will wateh developmonts in the case end will
repert frem time to time to the opartment coneerning such
features as are of importanoe end interest.
Hespeetrally yours,
Charles 8. Reed 1I
Amerieem Viee Consal.
alA
GRITHE
In qututuplsee to to the Departmont.
Gogwto Gompulate Comoral, Tokge.
nedorig
Gapy to Rsbassy. Tokye.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.
SEE
894a.00/13
FOR #71
FROM
Taihoku
( Reed
) DATED eb.24, 1931
NARCOTI
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
the enforced dissolution of the Taiwan Minshuto
C
party by the Government believed to have been
due to the Government's desire to retaliate
against the stand of the party regarding the
opiun question.
7
mb/

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.89)
UUINTUPLICATE
.91.
Tai hoku, Taiwan, Japen, Fobruary 24, 1981.
conridential.
Sub jeot: biabanin c the Inehato ry.
G18I
I heve the honor to re ort coneernine the reoont enforeed
dieeolution of the iwan  inshuto rty ( iwan Deoerntie
Party) by aotion of looal polive nctiny under  iroction of the
euthoritiee of the overrrent o:erel.
This politioel pirty held e cooeral meeting on the 10th
to dieeue formulstion  nd provisions of a letrom to be edopted
by the party. on the ovening of that day, the hief of ite
Police (mnioipel divislon of  ihoku) visited vhe meetine end
ordered the isbendiny of the perty under rtiele 8 Clause 2
of the Lew Governing roservetion of Geee end Order. ixteen
of the wost prominent persone in the party were erreeted end
taken to the Xita olive  tetion, eome a till being confined in
jeil, others being released after domiciliery vearohes dieolosed
mo affiliation vd th oommunistio activitios in Japen Proper and
other countries.
This party, informntion conoeming whioh wes siven in
seme detail in a report from this offiee, "A Survey of the
Opim Situation in Teiwam", deted April 11, 1930, me organised
in July, los? by certain moderate moeialists formerly membes
of the Taiwmm Minte Farty, disbanded by the poliee in Jume,
lesy for alleged redseal eetivities. The Minshuto Party as

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.88)
一
organised under tho principlos of cecuring feir politioel
rights for the inhabitonto of
miwan end of atabiliming
economie stnding nd velfsre of toco inhabitonte.
There
no
aterre utter elfdoterne
tion.
However, no sooner hed the  rty been ore nized then
redicel elemente took oontrol
a their etivi les beoome
more ond more vecxntioun to o
this a tege o muaber of the cri inel oremnisers, the most
moderate of the mombere, split from the party  nd fommed
a section to ell intente and purposer seoarate from the
Minehuto, elthoueh  till under the eome nume.
s the me jor
eetivitaes of the mrty rrouell developed ms being contre
to the polioy of : vn in  lenn, there were repeeted offorte
and direetione by the coverevent  ewerel theet the porty
should follow cueh pnd suon e oouroe but without y ereet
suocess, innmmuoh en to  dont these ciroctions would tend
to emesoulate the prim ry purposee of the perty.
The oulminetion of this con'liet wme the emunoiation
of a coneral pletform of Ge porty at the meeting on the
18th. Among the provis1ons: To obtain pol1tieal freedom
for farm laborere, prolotariats,  d all oppressed by the
summary ectione of the Covernmont Ceneral, To proteet the
interests of theee peoples ageinet unfair legielation and
povermmental eetion; To opposo tho absolute and despotic
rule of the Governor Generel; To oppose the fumotion of
the Advisory Couneil no not reprosentine the people; To
obtain politioal rights as concerns self-cpvorment for
beth sames over 18 yeere of age; To improve the ayetem of
tammtiemy To prohibit opium amoking and to abolish the
opss

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
opium monopolyi To obtein various generel social improve-
monts.
Immedietely following the diseolution of the perty.
the thier of
ol100 of he
Govermment Conerel s tnted thet
the exietenee of  uoh  perty obe true ts the uni ty between
Formoeans and Japanese, that any organisation opposed to
the poliey of dninistretion in  iwen could not be tolereted,
that freedom of oreenizetion f ei iler xrtios ws poesible
insofer as they were not inimieel to peece  no order.
The reel eauses, however, for the  otion or the euthori-
ties in disbanding the  inchuto arty re believed to lie
in the opim question ani theuahe ffair.
heeperment
will reeall that in the re ort   urvey of the pium
Situmtion in Tmiwan'
wae eet forth  sume ry of the etand
of the Minemato arty on this qveetion,  trsnwlation of
the petition of this rty to the ecrue of ations being
apponded. There is, therefore, no doubt thnt the continued
opposition of the Minshuto to tho opium monopoly nd poliey
in Taiwan hae evoked thle dissolution es a meeeure of
govermmentel retalistion.
o coneerne the  ushe Affair, it
le eteted thet the inahute arty took the Opportunity to
spread rumore contrery to the publio poece ond wolfare, a
number of which wore noted in Despatoh No. 58 from thds
ofrice, "The Uprising of Sevages in Toiwan", deted December
9, los0. In conneotion with the Mushe Affair this offiee
hopes to be able to subait for the considaration of the
Department e translation of some of the material prepared
by the Minshute on that oseasion.
Lemkers of the party are quoted as saying thet the
Mimskute will be reorganised to contimme politieal activities
in amether foom.
A1 though

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.86)
-4
Although there is mnoh truth in the eherges of radiealim
by the Covermeent Generel euthorities, there ore  number
of rounde cor ot conderning cort in of the items appearing
in the platferm of the pery.
It ls beyond
u es ti on, seve
on
the pert of those profitne from
e resent plen of
govermment. thet there is o conioum
of self-overmment in
1
tenber thet elaborate
pl were ine
 eelcwtlon of the l0th
annivereary or the es tablishient of seni-self-covernment in
Teiwan, thore ms doolded o most ion on the port of many,
bothomoend
a pepese, on ths cround that there wes
a self-govoris ont
 eo ron for celobratior.
There wee oertel ly o l onthusieem evineed before or
during the holidey.
be mposition of theins uto arty
to the Covermment enerel's opium voliey ie in mery wmys
well-reesoned  nat hee to.  bodkrround the preeent widely
noalaimed put sormingly iusdejus to neesure of suppreesion
of the vien.
After the hallabaloo with whioh the pro-govern-
ment persons greeted the emunoiation of o new opium poliey
in the vinter or le g ne  ted omy, efter the visit of
the League of Latlons pius cosaision had broughm fortn
othing other than those feote that tho Taiwan Government
Oaneral desired  be kwen, 1t 1e in koeping with the
gameral oltuation to note thet laporte of Persian opim
(having  higher morphis conteat tan other opie) wore
imereased from 71,999 pounds valued at ¥1,081,708 to 108,829
pounen valued a6 vl,l2n, slb, a matter which adds cansiderably
to the legitimn te reverue fren lieensed smskcess and very
appreesably to the so-ealled seoret revenue aceruing to
the Gevermment Gemeral through sales of epiun resiae to
Greg eempamien in Js.pan Preper for manufmoture inte mesphime

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.92)
and hsroin.
Although this latter s tatement is a rumor,
there is not muek doubt that it reveals an inkling of the
true situation.
AB
coneerns the opposition of the inehuto
arty to the dvieory Couneil, it need only he Bale that
the pereommel of 11
emong the ommosane who tv ao to rofit by siding d th
the povermment on matters hieh vitelly affeot the Jep neee
ruo, to Drofit Avnoially
otherwino.
beuentione
whereon the Ctuneil hes been mown to ifferith the
Govemor General ere intrineically pieeyume.
There is some beeie for coubting the bone ldes of
the otmtement of the thief of oderel olioe thet the
exdstenee of the perty obetruets ts unity between Formosams
and Japanese, imoornueh es etious by the Jornneee tbemselves
do not foster eny deop inmpressior of desire for unity but
rether of attaining  nd maiateinine cboolute nd despotie
suproesoy, in oomeree mi otherwise.
ny ine tanees in
trede preotiees might be uoted anent sLie point. It may
also be mentioned in passing thet there is a strong ourrent
of opposition to intermarriege between Fommosons and Japanese.
On the whole, the dissolution of the inshute beeeuse
of presont radioel tendencies is justified, However, the
politieal and eoeial problame are not settled by tm dis-
banding of this party. These will contimue to arop up from
time to time and at some later date will have to be answered.
The writer believes that under all thie controverey lies
an element ef commim sush es is known in Jepan Proper
and against whisk sterm barriems have had to be raised.
This belief is neturally tempered by the understanding
thet a comeiderekle msber of Fesmoeams have never seceptel

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.81)
-一
the Japanese rule wholeheartedly end swmyed by outoide
inflwences as well es by fancied end roal grievenoes seize
upon eny pretext to react agrinet the edmiaistrntion.
Rospeetrully yours.
Charlos. eed II
Amerioan Vice Consul.
F110 No. 800/940.1
GSRITHH
In qiatuplionte to the Dopartment.
Copy to Consulate Cenerel, Tolkyo.
Copy to Embasey, Tokyo.
A true cop7 )
the aunetg
inni S KuA

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.93)
TAIWAN (Pesmese).
I.
(a) Order Ne. VIII, dated Mareh 1921, of the
Department of heme Affairs.
(b) Regulations soverning Centrol of Opiwn, dated
September 5, 1924. (0rdinanee No. 16).
(e) * Ordinance No. 3 of 1928.
(a) Opium Ordinanee, Revised in 1929.
(e) Regulations for the enforcement of the
Opium Ordinanee.
894A.114 NAR0T1 CS/18
(f) Regulations applying opium lawe in China
dated Ostober 1, 192a. (Ordinanee No. 8).
ing nareotie drugs. (Ordinanée Ne. 71).
Note: * The Department underatands that this legis-
lation is in effeet, but has ne cepy in its
files.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
refer to
800.114 N 16/529
Diplomotio Soric. No. 1097
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
June 10, 1931。
LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING THE
CONTROL OF THE TRAFFIC IN NARCOTIC DRUGS.
To
American Diplomatic Officers
and Certain American Consular Officers.
Sirs:
Supplementing tho Department's telegraphic circular
instruction of August 28, 1929, to diplomatic officers,
there are enclosed herewith, in duplicate, questionnaires
in which have been listed the narcotics laws and regula-
tions received by the Department as now in force in the
country to which you are accredited, a summary of their
provisions, and questions indicating the nature of the
additional information which the Department desires to
obtain. A blank set of the questionnaire forms is also
enclosed.
Similar questionnaires are being sent, with this
circular instruction, to the consular officers in colonies,
possessions and mandated territories shown in the annexed
list. Questionnaire forms for possessions, colonies,
dependencies and mandated territories in which no consular
officers are stationed are being sent to the appropriate
diplomatic missions.
The information referred to is required in official
form for the use of the Commissioner of Narcotics to
guide his aotion in the enforcement of the laws of the
United States governing the export and import of narcotic
drugs, under treaties to which this Government is a party.
It will also be valuable to the United States Government
in connection with international aspects of control of
the traffic in narcotic drugs. It is expected that,
eventually, all of a non-confidential nature will be
compiled in one printed document suitable for reference
purposes, and that copies of such document will be trans-
mitted to the Governments signatory to The Hague Convention
and to any other interested Governments.
In order that the data may be exact and complete,
and may include everything available to assist in a
complete understanding of the method of governmental
control of the narcotio drug traffic in all of the terri-
tories,

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
tories, including possessions, dependencies, protectorates
and mandated areas assigned to you for report by the
present instruction, you arc instructed to bring the
onclosed questionnaires to the attention of the Govern
ment to which you are accredited, with the request that
thc competent authority be so good as to rcctify any
crrors in the entries thereon and to add any pertinent
information.
In the questionnaires covering dominions, colonics,
posscssions, depondencics and mandated territories, the
laws and regulations have not been summarized, owing to
the incompleteness of the Department's information. No
effort has been made to list all such areas, but, in each
case where the Department's files contain laws and rcgula-
tions understood to be in forcc in any of thosc areas,
lists of such laws and regulations have been embodicd in
the appropriate questionnaires.
Diplomatic missions are instructed to make an effort
to obtain from the Governments to which they are accredited
complete lists of the laws and regulations of all of their
dominions, colonies, possessions, dependencies and mandated
territories, excepting those assigned to other officers
under this instruction, together with copies of laws and
regulations which the Department has not received. It will
be appreciated if the Government will also undertake to
summarize such laws and regulations on the questionnaires
separately for each area.
Diplomatic missions should also transmit a list of
all dominions, colonies, possessions, dependencies, por-
tectorates and mandated territories of the Governments
to which they are accredited, concerning whose laws and
regulations they have been unable to obtain the desired
information.
It should be borne in mind that, in addition to the
information contained in or submitted in response to the
questionnaires, the Department desires to receive for its
files four copies (with English text or translation if
possible) of any laws or regulations on the subject which
are now in effect but have not hitherto been transmitted,
or which may be issued hereafter.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE, Jr.
Enclosures:
Questionnaires (In duplicate)
Index under:
Narcotic drugs;
Enclosing questionnaires with respect to
laws and regulations regarding the control
of the traffic in,
Embassy, Legation or Consulate File No. 8ll.4

=== Page 21 === (confidence 1.00)
Consular offices to which
Material to be obtained
circular instruction will be mailed:
with respect to:
Gibraltar
Gibraltar
Malta
Malta
Calcutta
(For India including the
Border and Native states,
and also Burma and the
Andaman and Nicobar
Islands, but excluding
French and Portuguese
India.)
Aden
Settlement and Protec-
torate of Aden.
Colombo
Ceylon
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
Singapore
(For the Straits Settle-
ments, Federated Malay
States, Non-Federated
Malay States, Sarawak,
British North Borneo, and
Brunei.)
Lagos
Nigeria, Gold Coast, and
Sierra Leone.
Nairobi
Kenya Colony, Tanganyika
Territory, Uganda, and
Nyasaland Protectorate.
Sydney
All of Australia; also
Papu? and the New Guinea
Mandated Territory.
Wellington
All New Zealand and also
the Samoan Mandated
Territory and the Pacific
Islands under New Zealand
Dominion such as the Cook
Islands.
Suva
Fiji
St. Johns, N.F.
Newfoundland
Barbados
(Also the Windward Isles
including Dominica and
St. Lucia, but not
Grenada.)
Belize
British Honduras

=== Page 22 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Georgetown
British Guiana
Hamilton
Bermuda
Kingston
Jamaica
Nassau
Bahama Islands
Trinidad
Trinidad and also Grenada
Algiers
Algeria
Dakar
French Senagal
Martinique
French West Indies
Saigon
Indo China, also Kwang
Chow-Wan.
Tahiti
Society Islands
Tananarive
Madagascar and the Island
of Reunion
Tunis
Tunisia
Beirut
Syria
Jerusalem
Palestine and Trans-
jordania
Dairen
Leased Territory of
Kwantung
Seoul
All of Chosen (Korea)
Taihoku
Formosa and the
Pescadores Islands
Fatavia
Netherland East Indies
Curaçao
Curação
Lourenço Marques
Mozambique
Nice
Monaco
Florence
San Marino
Barcelona
Andorra
Danzig
Free City of Danzig

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
RECD
FE
10.
S
NEWS ITEM.
OCT1032
Translation of a news 1tem appearing in the
HUA PEI JIH PA0 of September 2, 1932.
(Trans. FJC)
Division of
TI11932
JA
Depertment ut Stato
igay taken
JAPANESE PUBLICLY SELL OPIUM IN FORMOSA.
-They sell opium to Chinese and forbid
their own nationals to smoke-
Special telegram to this paper--
NANKING, September 1st:--General Chang Chih-chiang,
Chairman of the Anti-Opium Board, has stated in a press
interview that Japanese publicly sell opium to Chinese
in Formosa while forbidding their own nationals to smoke,
that their intent is malicious, and that for the purpose
of suppression of opium, the people should be apprised
of the evil of opium.
FJCLT
(A  0p: )

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.114 NAPC0T1CS
SEE
691.9431/7
FOR
despatch 1363
FROM
Persia
(
Hart
) DATED
Feb.24,1933
TO
NAME
121
REGARDING:
Embassy reported inter alia, on basis of informal discussions
S
with Japanese Foreign Office officials, that "the Opium Monopoly
in Formosa is unwilling to be a party to any trade agreement"
2
on the ground that opium traffic is one "to be controlled and
0
suppressed as soon as possible"

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, May 5, 1934.
6 1884
SUBJECT:
Enclosing Official Government Statistics
1-1055 G PO
on Coca and Cocaine Production in Taiwan.
108
894A.114 NARCOTICS
Division of
THE HONORABLE
FIR FOSTERN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
4.34
0
WASHINGTON.
C
L1
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith certain statistics
regarding production of coca and cocaine in Taiwan, covering
the years 1930 to 1933 inclusive. These figures were furnished
by the Government General of Taiwan.
Cooa leaf has been grown in Taiwan on a commercial scale
2
since l9l6 or perhaps a few years before that, two drug
companies owning plantations, but only the Taiwan Shoyaku
Company has a factory in the island for manufacturing cocaine
and other derivatives from the cooa leaf. The other company,
the Hoshi Seiyaku Co., Ltd., is believed to send the dried
114 nar.
coca leaf to Japan to be manufactured into drugs. Both
594a.
companies are under the close supervision of the Taiwam
Government General.
Acreage has remained the same during the past four
years, but production of dried coca leaf has shown a progressive
decline since l930. The manufacture of crude cocaine and
cocaine hydrochloride in the local factory of the Taiwan
N
Shoyaku Company also has been less in the past two years.
Exports of all coca products, the dried leaf, crude
JUN 7-1934
cocaine and cocaine hydrochloride have increased in both
FILED
1938 and 1933.
The

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Taiwan requirements of the two drugs for medicinal
purposes are not large, and in 1930 and 1931 quite large
stocks were accumulated in the island.
In l933 for the first time exports of orude cocaine
were above local production, accumulated stocks being drawn
on.
Stocks of cocaine and cocaine hydrochloride on hand
before l930 are not known, but they are believed to have
been considerable.
Leaving out of consideration these stocks, production
exceeded exports in the past four years by the following
amounts:
Crude cocaine
1125 kilograms
Cocaine hydrochloride
183 kilograms
This excess is believed to be above normal medicinal
consumption in the island.
Respectfully yours,
John B. Ketehaur
John B. Ketoham,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Official statistics on coca
and cocaine.
File No. 790/811.4
JBK/tkh
In triplicate to the Department.
Copy for Consulate Generel, Tokyo.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
PRODUCTION OF COCA AND COCAINE IN TAIWAN.
Area under coca cultivation
1930
1931
1932
1933
Name of Plantation
ACRES
Taiwan Shoyaku Co., Ltd.
Chikushimon - Plantation
448
448
448
448
Hoshi Seiyaku Co., Ltd.
Shako
- Plantation
246
246
246
246
Total
794
794
794
794
Production of drieu coca leaf
KILOGRAMS
Taiwan Shoyaku Co., Ltd.
139,189
124,779
67,440
42,161
Hoshi Seiyaku Co., Ltd.
39,750
35,059
38,498
61,225
Total
178,939
159,838
105,938
103,386
Production of crude cocaine
and cocaine hydrochloride
manufactured from coca leaf
Taiwan Shoyaku Co., Ltd.
Shinei factory
KILOGRAMS
Crude cocaine
785
771
524
287
Cocaine hydrochloride
42
179
O
58
Total
827
950
524
345
Exports
KILOGRAMS
Dried coca leaf
25,000
32,643
44,600
44,598
Crude cocaine
478
50
312
402
Cocaine hydrochloride
0
12*
32
52*
Total
25,478
32,705
44,944
45,052
Average alkaloid content
of cooa leaf
0.4% to 1.00% for all four years
Note
All exports are to Japan with the exception of
cocaine hydrochloride, of which the authorities state
12 kilograms in 193l were destined for Chosen and
Kwantung Leased territory, and 21 kilograms in 1933
to the same destinations.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.92)
June 6 1934
In reply refer to
FE 894.A 114 Narcotics/21
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and enoloses
herewith, for the confidential informtion of the Aoting
Commissioner of Narootics, a copy of despatch No. 93, dated
May 5, 1934, from the American Consulate at Taihoku, Taiwan
2
onclosing official government statistics regarding the pro-
2
duetion of coca leaves and cocaine in Taiwan during the years
1930 to 1933, inolusive.
Enolosure:
Z
No. 93, May 5, 1934,
from Taihoku, Taiwan, with
enclosure.
00
CR
FEIEMP
FE
6/.5/56
Joe. 6 1984

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
July 71984.
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
894A.11
To the American Consul General,
Shangha1, China.
The Seeretary of State refers to telegram No. ll6,
4 NAR COT
dated Maroh 21, 1934, 7 p.m., from the American Consul
General at Shanghai, in regard to the seizure at Shangha1
of two shipments of cocaine hydrochloride, believed to
have been manufactured in Formosa.
1
There is enclosed herewith, for the confidential
S
information of the Consulate General, a copy of despatch
2
No. 93, dated May 5, 1934, from the American Conaulate at
Taihoku, in regard to the growth of the coca leaf and the
produetion of cecaine in Formosa.
An extra oopy of the above-mentioned despatoh is
also enelosed, for transmission to the American Treasury
Attaché at Shanghei for his confidential information.
The American Consul at Taihoku is being instrueted
to keep the Department fully informed in future with re-
sare to the growth of the coce leaf and the produetion of
cessime in Formose and to transmit two copies of his re-
porte en this subjeet direetly to the American Consul
Z
JUL
Gemeel at manchi. In this cenneetion, the Department
demtrun that, es in the present ease, ome sepy of these
zegerte whem received frem Taiheke be handed to she Ameri-
t  t  
A ruerof
the algnald origi-
0

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
July 7 1984
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Consul,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
The Secretary of State acknowledges the receipt
of the Consul's despatch No. 93, dated May 5, 1934, in
4
NARC
regard to the growth of the coca leaf and the production
of cocaine in Taiwan and informs him that the despatch
has been read with interest in the Department. The in-
formation is regarded as valuable and timely.
One copy of the Consul's despateh under acknowledg-
S
ment has been transmitted to the Bureau of Narootics of
2
4
the Treasury Department and two copies are being trans-
mitted to the Amerioan Consulate General at Shanghai,for
the confidential use of that office and of the American
Treasury Attaché in China.
In this conneetion 1t may be stated that the Depart-
ment has been informed that cocaine, believed to have been
mmmufactured in Taiman, is being maggled inte ahaaghel
N
ame shat twe seisures of suek cocaine heve reeently beem
mase by the Chimese Maritime Customs authorities at that
pOre.
The Geneul ia Smstrmeted te keep the Department
Suay etvsesd in future with reare to the predmesien ef
A true eopy of

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
July 14 1934.
In reply refer to
FE 894H.114 Narootics/
894A.
a
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
A
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
()
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and, with
iC
reference to seizures recently made in Shanghai of cocaine
that was apparontly shipped from Formosa, enoloses herewith
in duplioate, for the confidential information of the Com-
07
missioner of Narcotios, oopies of despatohes as listed
below, concerning the Hoshi Pharmaceutioal Company, Limited,
the Hoshi Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha and Mr. Hajime Hoshi.
As the Bureau of Narootios is aware, the Hoshi interests
have oooa plantations in Formosa at the present time.
Enolosures:
No. 32, November 12, 1925
from Tainoku; 811.//4)1/L/896
the signeéd origl-
No. 173, Soptember 20, 1927
.1.
from Tokyo. 8/1.1/4716
/1261
口
1
PE1SJF1EMF
FE
7/12/34
Jul. 14 1934

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
32.
CONFIDENTIAL.
AMERICAN CONSULATE.
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, November 12, 1925.
Subjeet:
OPIUM MUGGLING IN T.IW N - HOSHI
DRUG COETLY
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF TTE,
WASHINGTON.
ir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
General Instruetion No. 873 of July 15, 1923 and the De-
partment's oiroular instruct on of Jecember 28, 1923 in
regard to illioit tralfio in narootios, and to report the
conviotion in the Taihoku Looal ( Distriot ) Court on
November 9, 1925 of Mr. lajime Hoshi for the attompted
unlawful importation end the unlawful sale in Taiwan of
989 cases, or 158,240 pounds, of op1um of the total vale
of Yen 1,265,920, equivalent to $531,686 in United
States ourreney at the ourrent rate of exehange or to
$651,06l at the normal exehange rate. Mr. Hoshi, who
is 53 years of age, is a resident of Tokyo and is one of
the Empire's prominent commeroial personages and president,
general manager and prineipal stoekholder of the Yen-
50,000,000 Hoshi Drug Company, Limited, ( Hoshi Seiyaku
Kabushiki Kaisha ), whieh has its main-offiee at Tokyo
and maintains important branobes at Osaka and Taihoku.
Two others, Kenkiehi Kimura, resident in Taihoku and
superintendent of the Taihoku Brameh of the Hoshi Deag
Gompany, Ltd., and Shinji Sekite, mamaging direstor of a
forwerding

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
forwarding sompeny at Yokohama, were likewise convieted.
The penalties assessed were: Hoshi, a fine of Yen
3,000; Kimura and Sekito, eaeh a fine of Yen 2,000; a joint
and several judgment against the three said offenders in the
sum of Yen 1, 265,9 0, tho d judge market velue of the opium
involved in the illege transaction of which they were
convioted.
The case is of interest by reason of the undeniably
guilty knowledge or the complicity of botn imperial and
Taiwan officials, as well as on account of the prominence
of the prineipal defendant and the magnitude of the unlaw-
ful operations. It is the biggest opium- smuggling case
th t has come to light in the history of Teiwan. One of
the prineipal persons directly involved, but against whom
there appears to be no probability whatever of prosecution
being instituted, is sagatarao vaku, now resident at Tokyo,
who is well known to the Department as the Director General
of Administration of the Taiwan Government Ceneral from
June, 192l to September, 1924, and for eight years prior to
his •levation to that high office as chief of the Burean of
Covernment Monopolies of the Taiwan Government General. It
will be reealled, moreover, that he was Japan's ohief del-
•gate to the Opium Conference at Geneva whioh ended so ab-
ruptly in February, 1925. Mention of his rumored complie-
ity in illieit traffio in opium has been made, also, in
previous despatehes from this Consulate.
The Hoshi Drug Company, Ltd., was in faot the actual
defendant in this ease, as all the transactions involved
were conducted in the name and style of the Company. The
Imperial eourts of last resort have held, however, that a
juridieal person or mere legal entity eannot be bound for a

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
eriminal offense but that eacn individual coneerned in the
commismion of the orime is pumishable. In consequence, the
three individuals aforesaid were arraigned jointly in the
Loeal (Distriot) Court of the Provinoe of Taihoku, in hieh
is situate the port of keelung, the prinoipal situs of the
offenses eharged. The regul r judge of said court, the Hon-
oreble Tsunejire :mirizu, presidce end the prosecution was
eondueted by the proourator of that court, r. Shogo Ishi-
baahi. Dr. koki. or rokyc, f re lu oounse? uf the hoshi
Drug Company. Ltd., ausiuteu by two smirent aihoku Jewyers,
Woears. Ukane und po, the  er Pormerly juage of the
Taihoku local (Dist riot) Court, upreured for the defondonts.
Artioles B5 and s0 of the eal Code of Japan, applioable
to Taiwan us weil, were held uppropris te to this case, the
former roading, in truslntion, s follows:-
" sevorul cots camitted oonsecutively and
coming under the same name of offense shall be
diaposed of s one or me",
and the lattor ro dlus, in transl tion:-
" hen uore than two porsons havo jointly
committed a orime, they all shall be treated
as prinoipal offençera."
The judgment or ore than a half-million dollare s
aarded in accordunce  : th the provisions of Artiele xVI of the
" Taiman Opium Ordinanoes ", thich wore enacted in January,
1897 and amended im August, 1898 and February, 1902, ma1d Art-
iele XVI reading, in translation:-
" Artiele IVI. - In the eases mentioned in Art-
1cles VIII-XV, the materials speeified therein shall
be eemriseated; but if sueh materials have been al-
resdy ecmsumed, a fine eorresponding to the value
thereef shall be imposed. "
Artiele II of the aforesaid " Taiwan Opium Ordimmees
provides that -
"Opium paste and powdered opium shall be sole
selely by the Gevermment.
Preparations made to contain ingredients of
"opi

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
" opium for the purpose of causing them to pro-
duoe the same effects as opium paste shall not be
imported, manufactured, or without a license there-
for be bought, sold, transforred, or owned."
Under the foregoing, as is well kmown to the Tepartment,
the Taiwan Pureau of evernment  onopolies sells opium and its
derivatives in ti eir several rorms at wholesale to covernment-
licensed dealers w o in turn sell to overnment-licensed con-
sumers at Government-fixe pr'ces.
s ocial overnment li-
cense is require Por  i, nim er atives ae compounds.
end the Justoms anti ur: tes a o net om overed to permit th eir
entry unless upon suc icense.  lo establiched and legal
procodure in Taiwan in connection witi  e irportation of opium
is that the importer s all submit to the uroau of covernmont
Monopolies a price-lint, whereupon thet ureau, if it desires
to purchase, concludes an agreement with the importer for
certain specified quantitins and causes a liconse to be
issued by the Taiwan over  oneral to t e importer
authorizing lim to  roi aso ant to import t) o part culer
kinds and quant t: es t erein specified only.
As lloshi and his confederates offected only t)e storage
of the opium in questlon in the ustoms' bonded warohouses at
Keelung (Taiwan) and onl took delivery therefrom for 1m-
modiate shipment abroad, Article VIII of the " Taiwan pium
Ordinances " was held inapplicable, as 1t refera solely to
the actual im ortation, and the prosecution was made under
Article IX of the aforesaid ordinances, whioh roads, in
translation, as follows:-
" Any person who imports or manufactures any med-
icine which has the same effeot as raw opium, pow-
dered opium, or opium paste shall be condemed to
major imprisomment for e term not excseding four
years or to a fine not exeeeding four thousand Yen.
" In the case of a person who attempts to manu-
facture or import a medleine whieh has the same
effest as opium or opium paste but has not yet as-
complished the offense, the penalty preseribed
for

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
一 5 -
" for t)e consumated offense shall be reduced
by one or two degrees.
The cefendants were found cullty, also, of violation
of rticle  of te foresal  rdinances, e pertinent
portions c  ich rt cl
ea, in translation:
 Article . - if any person, other than one who by
by Covernment appointment, sells opium paste wholesale,
owns or possesses oplum peste without obtaining the
license specified, -
he shall be condommed to
major imprisonment for a term not exeeeding one year
or to a fine not exceedin one t) ousand Yen.
The trial opened at  :30 a.m. on ctober 1 , 1925 as a
publie trial, but at 1l:17 a.m. on that day the examination
of te defendant okito civ n rise to the mention by the wit-
ness of the names of  ersens ther th an the ti ree said defend-
ants, as Tekine, atsucka, nte. etc., ( respecting w) om I have
been unable ti us far to obtain any specific information ). the
court announced that tie furt! er tr al woulc be held in camere
as it was considered " t) at the cont nuance of an open trial
was inimical to the public interest , - and t o public was
oxoluded from the court-r om. The hearing of testimony on
Cotober 2lst, on which date tie taking of evidence was conolud-
ed, was, however, conducted in open court. The judge, on
November 9, 1925, gave his decision, pronounced sentences as
hereinaforesaid, and announced tho following findings of fact:-
That Hoshi imported opium from the United States, from
Ralph L. Fuller & Company, New York, " and several other sup-
pliers ", under lioenses from the Taiwan Government General
" and other Government authorities ", and that he delivered the
same in due course;
That besides the quantity so authorised to be imported,
Hosh1 unlewfully imported or attempted to import unlawfully
over 1,000 cases, or more than 160,000 pounds, of opium
without Government license or other authorisation;
That

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6-
That this extre quantity was, " with the connivance of
the Customs authorities ", unlawfully stored in the Custome:
warehouses at Yokohama;
That in l92l the hief of the okohama Justoms ordered
oshi to take celivery as the Customs authorities were no
longer in a posltion to emit its storage thore:
That thereupon Hoshi approaeh ed Sagatarao Maku, then
ireetor Coneral of dministration of t' e Taiwan Covernment
Ceneral, anc obta'ned his permission to termorar'ly store
tho said opium in the eolung (Taiwan) Justoms' bonded
warehouses;
That during t)e perio from uly, 1u21 to November, 1921
Hoshi shipped the said opium from Yokohame to eelung and un-
lawfully stored 1, 057 cases, or lou,12 pounds, in the
Keelung Justoms' bende arelouses;
That with t o help of imure an okito, loshi sold the
opium, between July, 1021 and . r 1, 1922, to one aku fen Wa
and ton others of Shangha1 at a price of Yen 13 per pound:
That the unlawful sales' negotiations were carried on
sometimes in Taiholu and at other t imes at Tolkyo;
That Hoshi took colivery of the opium from the Xeelung
Customs under licenses issued by the lussian authorities at
Vladivostok and falsely stated to the Keelung Customs author-
Ities at the time that the opium had been sold in toto to one
Nakasawa of Dairen;
That instead of shipping the said opium to Vladivostok
or to Dairen it was in faet shipped from Xeelung to Shanghai,
with the exeeption of 18 cases forwarded to the Sanitary
Bureau of the Department of Home Affairs, Tokyo, and 50 cases
whieh were thrown overboard into the sea when the vessel in
which they were being transported to China was approached by
a Taiwan Customs' laumah, the value of which said 68 eases
being

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
-7 -
being exeluded by the court in caloulating the amount of the
judgment deoreed against the defendants.
The proseoution ad contended for a judgment in the 
of Yen 2,100,000, olaiming that that amount had been realised
by the defendants by selling the opium abovo the market priee,
while Hoshi alloged t' at e had in faot suffored a loss of
Yen 200,000 through the po fidy of s two confoderates.
The defense was conduoted in a technieally skillful man-
ner, the dofonses pleaded boin t at oshi had reason to be-
l1eve at the time he purchased the excess opium that the Tai-
wan ureau of Governmont  onopolies and the anitary ureau
of the repartnent of Lome Affairs, olye, woul purohase it
from him; that other amuc concorns and other importors for the
Taiwan Jovornmont jeneral had proceeded in tio same manner as
he had done in this case ane t at t'ey hac not been proseouted
for so doing; that he Ia boen cccorded officlal permission to
store the said opium i t  rohama Custome' warelouses; that
when the Chief of the Yokohame Customs finally direoted its
removal he obtained from the thon rector eneral of Adninis-
tration of t'e Taiwan Covornmont enoral to store it in the
Customs' warehouses at  colung (Taiwan); that it romained in
the teelung ustoms' warehouses for oighteen monthe without
molostation or interferenoe by the Taiwan authoritios; that
his sale of te opiwm was not consumated in Taiwan; that the
faot that it was sold to persons in hanghai instead of in
Vladivostok was a matter of whiah the Taiwan authorities had
no jurisdiotiom; and partioularly, that the entire course of
his proceedings in the matter had been with the full kmowlodge
and the mequiescenee of the Imperial and the Taiwan muthorities
direetly coneerned.
The eeurt's findings on the evidenee effeetually disposed
of mest of these comtentions se far their poteney to absolve
tho

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
一8一
defendants from guilt was concerned, and held that the
connivance of the authorities cannot constitute a legal
defense to unlawful acts, and, as has been seen, adjudged
that an attempted importation and actual sales had takon
place within tle Jurisdiction of Taiwan although the do-
livery of the opium so sol had been made in China.
The proeurator characterized the pleas and the
arguments in their support as ne erious ut academic and
specious, and in tie course of his argument said: -
" I cannot, however, resist the feeling that
there was a shade of official connection with the
case. As already stated, the Government cannot,
of course, openly order the disposal of raw opiim
to an individual, but wi en the circumstances con-
neoted with the importatlon of the drug into
Taiwan, the fact tiat secret sales were going on
for a year and a l.alf w1th impunity, and t) at
the police authorities failed to report the case
to the procuratorial officials, notwithstanding
their possession of full facts, are taken into
due consideration, tho suspicion of official
conneetion seoms to be confirmed. The Govornment
General of Taiwan has always openly declared to
the world that the opium system is perfect and
that official control is effectually exercised.
Indeed, slight offenses were brought to justice,
and instructions were issued to officials con-
cerned from time to time, exhorting them to en-
deavors to see that control is exereised very
vigorously. Notwithstanding this, the author-
ities preferred to connive at an offense against
the Opium Law which was the most serious that has
been committed since the Japanese occupat1on of
Taiwan. This must be denounced as a very grave
blunder on the part of the authorities conoerned.
If they cannot be condemmed as accompliees of the
acoused from a legal point of view, it 1s not ex-
aggeration to say that they are open to the same
charge morally.
The Taiwan newspapers, which are rigidly censored, make
no comment on the merits of the case. A suggestive, if not
entirely mcourate or logical, commentary from a British
standpoint is the editorial of the JAPAN CHRONICLE, Kobe,
in its issue of November 4, l925, following the address of
Proeurater Ishibashi but prior to the desision of the eourt
on November 9, 1925. The editer and publisher 1s A. Morgan
Youns, a British subjest. Brief emserpts from that extend-
od editorial

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
ed editorial read as follows:-
" But the (Hoshi) case has proved disappointing.
The most mysterious sllence has brooded over it.
Here was a oase of a very serious charge agalnst a
man who is as well known in Japan as tle maker of
Beecham's pills is in ngland. His name appears
on every hoarding, and disfigures the countryside
on advertisements standing in t'e fielcs on each
side of the railway track. As a mamufacturing
chemist he was a ploneer of Japanese industry, and
he employed hundreds - perhaps thousands - in his
factorios. Yet when he is prosecuted, not a word
is mentioned of t)e fact in any Japanese news aper.
e
1s required to come to . ormosa to stand his
trial, and only the barest mention of the fact 1s
made, and that only in one or two papers.ven
papers keeping corresponcents in Formosa are silent,
and the papers in Formosa, it almost goes without
saying, say least of all. When the trial
comes on we have much the same thing. Bits of
evidence are heard in open court; and then, as soon
as the examination of the accused begins, the court
is cleared, and not a word is heard as to the real
facts of the case. - - - -
" The goneral belief is that tie reason for the
strange silences that punctuate the whole affair
ls that there are too many high officials mixed up
in it to be healthy to tell the whole story. - - -
" Yet it is all smoothed over, and there is not
a word said as to the possibility of official cor-
ruption. In these ciroumstances it becomes pretty
olear why the greater part of the case was held in
camera. There are some things that will not bear
publloity, and the judiciary is hampered in 1ts
operations by considerations of official policy.
Yot it is only a little while ago that Miss Ellen
La Motte was contrasting the perfeot management
of the Pormosan opium problem with the unblushing
wickedness of the British procedure. It was a
fitting end to the case that Mr. Hoshi, before
returning to Japan to await the court's decision
regarding the procurator's demands, paid a visit
to his Formosan coca plantations!
The last statement recalls the faot that the lloshi Drug
Company in 1920 established a coca plantation of 78 aores
near Kegi, about 150 miles southwest of Taihoku, for the
cultivation of eoea trees for the mamufacture of cocaine,
whieh has since been extended to comprise about 1,000 aeres.
The plants were imported by that company from its plantations
in Poru.
In further reference to the complieity of prominent
offioial

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
-10 -
officiel personages in the Hoshi opium smmggling case, I
should add that I am reliably informed semi-Officially that
the Taiwan authorities, n the course of the preparation of
the case, subjected bot aatareo aku, former irector
General of Administration in "aiwan as hereinaforesaid, and
Baron Den, who was Covernor General of Taiwan from Cctober,
1919 to September, 1923, to an examination at Tokyo, Chief
rocurator . Goto of the Taihoku higl Court having made a
trip to Japan in eptember last for that purpose.
It1s
not to be inferred from that circwmstance, however, nor is
it believed, that there is any likelihood whatever of pros-
ecution being instituted a ainst either of these personages.
The somewhat detailed exposition in this despateh of
the essential facts in this case, of the text and interpre-
tation of the laws and or inances invoked, of the nature of
the penalties assessed, and of tle attitude of the author-
ities and of the individuals concerned in the trial, appears
to make further comment superfluous. It is to be empha-
sized, however, that the prosecution of these defendants
cannot be deemed ovi ence of especial zeal on the pert of
the Taiwan present administration in the enforcement
of the Taiwan Op1um ordinances, nor can 1t be said just-
ly that the proseoution was inspired by a desire on the part
of the present administration to diseredit its predecessors
in offiee here. Cne is compelled to the conelusion that,
as in the case against F. Meiorodt et al., reported in my
despateh No. 7 of April 15, 1925 and my despatah No. 8 of
April 20, l925, the prosecution of this case had already been
delayed as long as was possible without seriously injuring
the Taiwan present administration's own official prestige
and lemving in the hands of its politieal and other oppoments
a formidablo

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
a formidable weapon at a time when the administration's
retention in office is in jeopardy, - not, however, because
of any conditions obtaining in Taiwen but by reason of the
insecurity of the present cabinet position in Tokyo. Al-
though public opinion ns understood in
the nite States is
not of consequence or is non-oxistent as
a olitical factor
in Taiwan, government prestire is of first importance here
where 4,000, 000 al1en sub jects ere r lec by a handful of
Japanese officials. It sioulc in justice be said that the
Taiwan Government General as at present constituted, so far
as the Governor  eneral and the hiefs of all the Executive
Departmonts ( or ureau hiefs ) are concerned, comprises,
without exeeption, men of administrative ability diligent in
the discharge of their off:cial uties, an? that it is here
generally conceded by all classes of the populetion to be
the most capable administration that has ruled in Talwan
since the Japanese occupation. The essential facts in
the case of Hoshi have been well Imown in the politieal and
all other well-informec cireles in Taiwan and in Japan since
before the present administration in Taiwan came into power,
a little more than a year ago. The positive details in
the Hoshi ease were definitely established by the testimony
of witnesses heard during the hearing of the aforesaid case
of Miebrodt et al. in April last and made it no longer prao-
tiomble for the authorities to refrain from taking action.
From all the foregoing, the evident reluctance of the
authorities in this literally foreed prosecution, the rigid
censorship exeroised by the authorities eompelling the press
of Taiwan and the vernacular press in Japen to refrain for
a year and a-half from any mention of an affair whioh the
authorities were aware was a publie seandal, the fact that
throughout

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
- 12 -
throughout the progress of the trial and even after convietion
this official censorship continued the complete suppression in
the vernaoular press of the Empire any comment on the merits
or the conduet of the proceedings, the undeniably guilty know-
ledge of aeveral epartmonts of t)e Imperial and the Taiwan
Governments from the beginning of tle unlawful operations
the obvious complicity of the former irector Ceneral of Adminis-
tration of the Taiwan covernmont and of other major and
minor crficlals, the cefendants' pleas and proofs of
official cooperation, te careful avoidance of sentences in-
volving imprisonment, the conoluslon appears inevitable that
neither in Taiwan nor in Japan proper is sinoere offort made
to effectually suppress opium smuggling or to prevent its
unlawful sale and exportation to hina and elsewhere.
As a corollary of relevancy in  is connection, herewith
is enolosed a list o tle seizures of opium by the police
authorities in Taiwan from January 1 to June 30, 1925, for
violations of the Taiwan  lum rdinances, which list has been
supplied me by the ureau of olice Affairs of the Taiwan
Government Ceneral.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
(S1gned:) Chas. L. De Vault,
Enclosure:-
Amerioan Consul.
List of Cpium seizures in
Taiwan from January 1 to
June 30, 1925.
In quintuplicate to the Department of State.
1 copy to the Ameriean Embassy, Tokyo.
1 copy to the Ameriean Consulate Ceneral, Tokyo.
811.4
CLD/

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.93)
Police SEIZURES
of OPIUM in TAIWAN. January - June, 1925.
( Commmunicated by the Dureau of Police Affairs of
the Taiwan Covernment Ceneral. )
Date.
ature of opium
to.e
Quantity
Place of
Seized.
momme.
Seizure
Jan. 1 --Chinese
opium
100
Taihoku.
Jen. 1 -- rude
1um
160
Taihoku.
Jan. 2 --Chinese opium
760
yuko.
Jan. 2
--Crude opium
390
yuko.
Jan. 3
--Chinese opium
1.000
Shoka.
Jan.10
97
71
5,920
Taihoku.
Jan.15
4
55
14,200
Tainan.
Jen.17
11
24C
Taichu.
Jan.17
?"
74
5,500
Anping.
Jan.19
10
200
So-0.
Feb.17
n
120
Toroku.
Moh. 2
n
n
111
Taihoku.
Apr. 7
n
440
Taihoku.
Apr.24
H
130
hinkwa.
Apr.30
7
600
Takao.
My 2
88
150
Hokko.
May 8
99
178
Keelung.
May 1l
n
915
eelung.
May
16
794
Taihoku.
May
18
100
Taiko.
May
19
138
Taiko.
May
24
97
247
Tainan.
May 28
17
11
110
Yoelung.
May 29
F
200
Keelung.
May 30
59
230
Taiko.
Jun. 1 --
91
2,400
Tamsui.
Jun. 5 --
500
Keelung.
Jum. 11 -
en
1,100
Inrin.
June 13 -
r9
9
140
Giran.
Jum. 14 -
6,200
Taihoku.
Jun. 15 --
9
1,000
Taihoku.
Jun. 16 -
11
400
Toyohara.
Jume 25 -
6€0
Toyohara.
June 27 -
n
435
Shinnei.
June 28 -
n
n
200
Shimnei.
June 28
n
1,350
Taihoku.
June 30
n
200
Keelung.
47,528.
Total Chinese opium -- 46,978
Total Crude opium
550
n
47,5 momme,
equivalent
to about
392
pounds avoirdupois.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
JOPY:EMF
No. 173
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Tokyo, Japan, September 20, 1927.
SUBJECT: Illioit Drug Traffio
THE HONORABLE
THE SECHETARY OF STATH,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the
Dopartment's instruction of August 5, l927, in whion I
was directed to make discreet in uiries in an effort to
locate a factory in Japen where cocaine smuggled into the
Un1 ted States and Canada is manufactured, and the methods
of smuggling it.
So far as I have been able to uscertain, there are
three companies in this country hich manufacture cocaine:
the Sankyo Company, Ltd.; the lioshi Pharmaoeutioal Company,
Ltd., and the Dai Hippon Seiyaku Company. Factories of the
two former companies arc in the tokyo district, while the
latter operates chiefly in the )saka region. The Sankyo
Company and the Da1 Hippon Seiyaku Company huve a high
reputation in the drug und cheiical trade, I underatand,
for the character of their products, and the straight-
forwardness of their busime ss transactions. The Hoshi
Pharmaceutical Company, i.td., is best known as a manufao-
turer of patent medicines. It hus ut differont times been
in finanoial difrioultios and the president, Mr. Hajime
Hoshi, was reoently indioted and brought to trial in
Formosa on a oharge of illegally disposing of morphine
obtained from the Opium Monopoly there.
The Japanese law provides a rigid systen of reports
from drug manufacturers and I am informed that it is im-
possible to obtain morphine or cocaine or their derivatives
through legitimate channels without a physician's presorip-
tion

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
tion. I have been told, correctly, I am sure, that there
is . considerable unlicensed traffic in these drugs,
and that it is possible to obtain them in Japan, as else-
where, illicitly.
I have reason to believe that the illicit traffic is
a matter of some concern to the police, who seem unable
to learn its source of supply. i venture to suggest, as
a means of assisting the au thorities nere, that I be sup-
plied with containers and labels taken from containers of
illicit drugs seized in the uUnited tates, which are sup-
posed to be of Japanese origin. fhis would serve as a
starting point for investigetion by the Japanese authori-
ties, and  ight :e the means or locating the place of manu-
facture.
I nave the honor to be, ir,
Your obedient servant,
(SEd) DWIN L. NEVILL,
American Consul General.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
894A. 114 NAF COT iCS/
NOTE
.. FOR ....Inatruction.#-
SEE_893.114_N_16.Manchuria/108
-) DATED ......July..16.1934..
oMTaihoku
1-1187
NAME
TO
26
REGARDING:
Ydanoff: Investigate possibility of drugs coming from Farmosa.
n6
fwd

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
A-se
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
araling
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japen, December 17, 1934.
人
Sumjmct: Stooks of Morphine in Taiwan.
VG
January 19 19867
Lcopiessnt
THE HONORABLE
Divitn 
HE SECRETARY OF STATE,
drafted to
894A.
PHM REC0
JAN 165
JAN16 1935
Thbotn.
WASHINGTON.
gam.18.1935
Dupertment of State
Copy tatem
I have the honor to report that information has
4
become available to this Consulate which indicates that
NARCOTiCS/27
disposition of surplus stocks of morphine in Taiwan is
now being considered by the Monopoly Bureau of the Govern-
ment General. For approximately ten years past, pro-
duction of morphine in Taiwan has exceeded sales, and the
result has been a gradual acorual of surplus stocks.
Total surplus stooks of morphine now held by the Monopoly
Bureau in Taihoku are understood to be 2,500 pounds, an
894a.114Nal
amount surficiently large to embarrass the Government
General. There is little prospect of inoreasing the sale
of Taiwan morphine through ordinary commercial channels,
1.e., the Nihon Seiyaku (Japan Drug Company), Sankyo, and
the Hoshi Drug Company. The total amount of Taiwan morphine
bought by these three drug oompanies is stabilized at 3,000
pounds per annum.
JAN1 935
The Taiwan Monopoly Bureau proposed to manufaoture
codeine out of the surplus stooks for shipment to Japan
proper, but this plan was rejeoted by the Department of
the Interior of the Japanese Government, since it would
M
interfere

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
interfere with sales of codeine manufactured by the
Osaka Sanitary Experiment Station at Osaka.
The Department of the Interior apparently offered
to purchase outright the entire surplus morphine supply
from the Taiwan Monopoly Bureau, but the price offered
was unsatisfactory to the Monopoly Bureau, which under-
takes to make a substantial profit on all transactions
in monopolized articles. The Department of the Interior
declined to offer a higher price, since the Osaka
Sanitary Experiment Station was receiving adequate supplies
of low priced opium produced in Japan proper. Adequacy
of domestio supplies was established as a result of
deliberate Governmental encouragement of poppy cultivation
in Osaka and Wakayama prefectures.
Mr. Tabata, chief of the Monopoly Bureau of the
Taiwan Government General, is reported to have made a
trip to Tokyo recently wi th the object of resolving the
impasse. However, it is understood that no agreement was
reached, and the problem of disposition remains.
The Monopoly Bureau of the Taiwan Government General
traditionally is permitted a great degree of latitude
in its actions, both by the Central Government and by
the Government General of Tai wan. Consequently, the
solution of the problem may rest largely with it, al-
though the Foreign Office and the Department of Overseas
Affairs are said to be following the activities of the
Taiwan Monopoly Bureau closely, and presumably would
intervene in, or at least take cognizance of, any attempt
to dispose of the stocks outside of Japan.
Sale of this morphine to China would no doubt be a
tempting

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
tempting prospect, but action in that direction is
retarded or estopped by knowledge of the disapproval
with which such a traffic would be regarded, were it
generally known. The Monopoly Bureau has announced an
intention to liquidate the surplus by reducing output
for the next several years, thus enabling the Bureau to
include a part of the surplus in the 3,000 pound quota
supplied to the drug companies each year.
The source of the information contained in the
first four paragraphs of this despatch (editor of the
Taiwan Shimbun), while not absolutely unimpeachable,
is as dependable as any available to the Consulate on
this guarded subject.
Respectfully yours,
W altent Woksmanghy
Walter P. McConaughy,
American Vice Consul.
JM
1
File No. 8ll.4
WPM/tkh
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
In duplicate to Consulate General, Shanghai.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.91)
19 18807
In reply refer to
FE 094A.114 Nar00t1cs/27
CONFIDENTIAL
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/28
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
oncloses herewith, in duplicate, for the confidential
information of the Commissioner of Narcotics, a copy
of dempatoh No. 113, dated December 17, 1934, from the
Amerioan Consulate at Taihoku, in regard to the surplus
stocks of morphine in Taiwan.
Enclo sure:
No. 113, December 17, 1934,
from Taihoku, in duplicate.
acle
He8
PE:HCS:EMF
FE
1/18/36
fleuy
A true mp of
M
JAN
p

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
Jay19 1985
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
To the American Vice Consul,
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/
Taihoku, Taiwan.
The Secretary of State acknowledges the receipt of
despatch No. 113, dated December 17, 1934, from the
Consulate at Taihoku, in regard to the surplus stook
of morphine in Taiwan, which has been read with interest.
The information is timely and valuable and Vice Consul
MoConaughy's report on this subject is appreciated.
The report has been accorded a rating of Very Good."
The Department will be interested to receive further
2
9
information in regard to the disposition of the surplus
stook of morphine and also any information whioh mmy
become available in regard to the production of and
trade in narootio drugs in Taiwan. Reports conoerning
narootios should be submitted to the Department in quin-
tuplioate.
894A.114 Narcotics/27
3
BIHCOiRMF
FP
A-0/c 1/18/36
o yuul
the sighed arikt
nal.
8

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.114 NARCOTICS/
893.114 Marcot1cs/1090
Letter
SEE
FOR
PROM Treasury Department
Apr. 18, 1935
-) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Heavy purchase of opium by Chinese interests in Amoy
30
3
O
from Japanese authorities in Formosa: Results of
investigation of -, advised and action te be taken
by American representative to Opium Advisory Committee
regarding the Esra brothers and Paul Yip.
3f

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.97)
vce
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
OFFICE OF
WASHINGTON
COMMISSIONER OF NARCOTICS
1935 MAY 24 PM 3 11
AND REPER TO
DIVISION OF
894A.114-NARCOTiCS/31
:JWB
COMMUNICATIONS
May 23, 1955.
AND RECORDS
Division of
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
INFORMAL.
MAY 24 1935
Degartment of State
H. Charles Spruks, Esquire,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Spruks:
893 14709
On April 27, 1935, there was mailed to you, over
the signature of Assistant Secretary Gibbons, a letter
nclosing two photostatic copies of a report and its
enclosure, dated March 15, 1935, from the Treasury At-
tache at Shanghai, in regard to the registered narcotic
addicts in Kiangsu Province, China.
Through inadvertence two copies of a report, dated
March 20, 1935, from Treasury Attache Nicholson, entit-
led "The Dokikai", were emclosed with the above mention-
ed letter. This latter communication should have been
made the subject of a separate letter to your Department.
MAY 84 1035
I would, therefore, appreciate it if you would treat this
informal communication as the covering letter for the re-
port entitled "The Dookikai".
Very sincerety yours,
Jalon W.Rulklep
John W. Bulkley

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.114-NARC0TiCS/32
SEE
893.114 Narcotics/1348
FOR
letter
FROM Treasury Department
Nov 12, 1935.
) DATED
TO
NAME
::127
REGARDING:
Shipment of Persian opium stored in Formosa due to political
reasons since 1931 is now finding its way into Fukien in
small shipments.
b

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
In reply refer to
September 18 1936
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894A.114
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
enoloses herewith, in duplicate, for the information
of the Treasury Department, a oopy of League of Nations
dooument No. 0.0. 1660, in regard to opium addiotion
NARCOTI CS/33
in Formosa. League document No. 0.C. 1408(1)(b),
referred to therein, was sent to the Treasury Depart-
ment March 27, 1934.
Before instructing the American Consul at Taihoku
to endeavor to obtain, free of charge if possible,
copies of the monographs referred to in the enclosed
document, this Department would like to be informed
whether the Treasury Department desires copies, if so,
how many of each, and whether it is prepared to pay
for them in case they cannot be obtained free of
charge.
Enclosure:
V
League dooument No. 0.0. 1660,
in duplicate.
D
FE:SJF:AT
9/18/36

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
Diviston of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP141936
Department of State
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
0.c.1660.
Geneva, August 28th,1936.
ADVISORY COL ITTEE ON TRAFFIC IN OPIU:  D OTHER
DANGEROUS DRUGS.
STATISTICAL STUDY IN REGARD TO OPIUM ADDICTION IN FORMOSA.
Note by the Director of the Opiwn Traffic Section.
During its twentieth session (May-June 1935), the
Advisory Committee exemined document O.C.l408(1)(b) on the
statistics of mortality and criminality emong opiun-smokers
in Formosa.
Since that date, the Consul-General of Japan for-
warded to the Secretariut, on Merch 26th, 1936, 15 booklets
concerning research work in connection with opium-smokers in
Formosa.
One of these bcolets, entitled "Statistical Studieu
in regard to Opium Addicticn in Formosa (Second Report) by
Professor Dr. Somei To", is a continuation of the information
already forwarded to the Cowmittee in docunent O. C.l408(1)(b).
A sumary of this bcoklet is therefore conmunicated herewith
to the Advisory Committee.
The other fourteen booklets (of which the following
with/
is the list) deal
questions of a medical character.
These booklets, of which only ne copy of each lhas been for-
warced to the Seoretariat, are at the disposal of the
Advisory Committee.
AMERICAN CONSULAT
GENEVA. SWITZFRI AND
11533
ULITICAL SECTION

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
LIST OF BOOKLETS
1. On the subjective phenomena of abstinence in the case of
opium addiots, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.
2.
The function of the vegetative nerve system cf persons
accustomed to opiun, by Kozuo Kubota.
3。
On the rapidity or reduction of the red blood corpuscles
in the case of opium aidicts, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.
4.
On the toxic conditions of human beings eccustomed to
opium from birth, by Prof. Dr. Somei To.
5.
The white blood corpuscles of opium addicts under condi-
tions of abstinonce, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.
6.
On certain objective phenomone of abstinence in the case
of opium addicts, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.
7.
Clinical observations of the teeth and eoft tissue of the
oral cavity of cpium addicts, by Shizuo Kobayashi.
8.
Clinical observations of the teeth and soft tissue of the
oral cavity of opium addicts. II. Communication with
regard to the condition of the cral cavity of humen
beings accustomed to opium from hirth, by Shizuo Kobayashi.
9.
Experimental investigations of the blcod of hunan beings
accustomed to opiun, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.
10.
On the blood types of opium addiots in Formosa, by
Asho Ro.
11.
On the determination of morphine in the urine of opium and
morphine addicts and the practical application of the
reaction, by Somei To and Asho Rin.
12.
On the determination of morphine in the urine of opium
and morphine addiots and the practical application of the
reaotion, by Somei To.
13.
On the effects of opiun addiction cn the sexual funotion,
by Kiroku Rai.
14.
On abstinence phenomena and objeotive conditions in the
case of a woman accustomed to cpium from earliest childhood,
by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Statistical Studies on Opium Addiction in Formosa,Second Report
by
Prof. Dr. Sômei To.
Laboratory of Experimental Therapy, Department of Hygiene, Gov-
ernment Research Institute (Director of Department: Prof. Dr.
Horinchi), and Government Central Hospital for Opium Addicts in
Taihoku, Formosa, Japan.
There is no exact statistical study available about
the influence of opium use or habitual morphinism upon any race
or other subdivision of mankind as a whole. For an investiga-
tion into this problem conditions are especially favourable in
Formosa, perhaps more favourable than anywhere else, because
the licensed habitual opium-users and also the suppliers of
prepared opium are under stringent official control, and a com-
plete general census has been effected. The question is impor-
tant not only from the toxicological point of view, but also
from that of social sanitation. Several years ago (l928) we
started collecting the data, and in 193l a first report on this
subject has been published by the author in this journal. Since
that time we have continued our investigations in this regard,
and the following is an outline of the whole results obtained
by us up to date.
1) The authorities decided on a policy of gradual abolition
of opium smoking and eating in l897, and since then the number
of opium addicts has greatly decreased. In September 1900
their number amounted to 169,064, representing 6.3% of the whole
Formosan population, while at the end of 1934 it had decreased
to 16,190, or only 0.3 of that population; if we place the
index number of licensed opium addicts for the year 1900 at
100, their present index number is 10.
2) When in 1929 the opium ordinance was revised, there
were 17,468 opium addicts c received order to undergo com-
pulsory medical treatment. Fcr this purpose the gorernment
established a central hospital for opium addicts in Taihoku
(Taihoku Kôsei-In) and special wards in the general hospitals
of many other places of this island. From January 15th 1930
to the end of March 1934 there were received in these hospitals
with 425 beds 15,434 opium addicts for compulsorily weaning
them of their habit,
505 persons were yet awaiting medical
treatment, and 1529 persons had died before entering the hos-
pital. In the Taihoku Kôsei-In we have treated 6,564 addicts,
with an average stay in the hospital of 26.89 days.
3) hs regards the number of persons prosecuted for the
offence of secret opium use there were during the 24 years
from 1909 to 1932 aitogether 29,959 prosecutions; the offenders
averaged per year 1248.29, of which 1082.92 or 86.75% were
males, and 165.38 or 13.25% females.
4) The quantity of prepared opium sold by the Formosan
monopoly bureau decreased from 200,927 kilograms in 1900 to
only 19,879 kilograms in 1934.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
5) The quantity of prepared opium issued to individual
licensed opium addicts used to be about 4 grams per day, but
had been decreased in recent years to about 3 grams.
e) The age at which opium smoking was started by male
opium-addicted patients was mostly between 17-18 and 40 years,
with the twenties preponderating, while females usually
started a little later, with the twenties to thirties prepon-
derating. The average age to start opiun smoking of 5, 705
addicts of both sexes was 32 years ll months 27 days.
7) For most male opium-addicted patients it took about
one year to establish the habit, in fewer cases one month, or
more rarely two or three years, sometimes only half a year,
and for females it is nearly the same. The average time
required by 5,1l2 opium addicts of both sexes was 3 years 5
months 8 days.
8) The period from the time of becoming an addict to
the time of ceasing to be one was for males mostly wi thin 10
years, and there were very few cases in which the habit was
kept up for'more then 40 years; for females this period is
shorter; the average of 4,9l4 opium-addicted patients of both
sexes amounted to 15 years 10 morths 13 days.
9) In regard to the motives leading to opium smoking an
enquiry conducted among 5,922 opium-addicted patients showed
that the motive of 17.12% of the male, and 7.29% of the female,
cases, equalling 15.1l% for both sexes, was enjoyment, while
the remainder started it as a self-treatment for various ills,
especially stomach-ache, pain in the abdomen, cough, asthma,
gonorrhoea, other stomach and abdominal diseases, haemoptysis,
or diarrhoea.
l0) The body weight of opium addicts was less than that
of non-smoking people; the average weight of 1,732 non-smoking
male Formosan insurers in the Chiyoda Life Assurance Company
was 56.424 kilograms; it was 51.483 kilograms for 8,497 male
non-smokers as ascertained at the general public health
examination; on the other hand, the average weight of 719
licensed male opium addicts was only 47.831 kilograms. Acoord-
ing to our investigations, 4,93l male opium addicted patients
weighed at the Taihoku Kôsei-In showed an average of 50.419
kilograms, and the average weight of 14 male addicts habituated
from birth was 47.00 kilograms.
11) The average height of male non-smoking Formosan
insurers in the Chiyoda Life Assurance Company was 165.951
centimetres; according to the general public health examina-
tion it was 16l.515 centimetres; male opium-addicted patients
measured in the Taihoku Kôsei-In averaged l62.69 centimetres;
licensed male opium addicts showed an average of 162.00
centimetres, and addicts from birth 162.3l centimetres.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
12) The average girth of the chest of non-smoking males
as found at the examinations by the Chiyoda Life Assurance
Company is 83.683 centimetres, and the figures obtained at the
general public health examination average 83.03 centimetres,
while the male opium-addicted patients in the Kosei-In averaged
81.657 centimetres, the licensed opium addicts 78.45 centi-
metres and addicts from birth 78.4 centimetres.
13) The death rate of the licensed opium addicts was
very high in comparison to the general death rate of the
Formosan population. The general deathrate from l928 to
1932 was 21.6 persons, that of licensed opium addicts 82.1
persons, or 60.56 persons higher than the general death rate.
14) We also compared the death rate of licensed opium
addicts over 30 years of age, divided into decades, w ith those
of non-opium smokers, during the 5 years from 1927 to 1931.
The result was as follows: in the thirties the average death
rate of non-opium smokers is 12.05 as against 27.9 for the
addicts; in the forties it is 18.27 against 43.3, in the
fifties 30.02 against 60.5, in the sixties 55.26 against
89.9, in the seventies and over 110.99 against 160.3.
15) In regard to the rate of childbirth by female
opium omen-addicts we investigated loo each of opium-addicted
women-patients and of non-smoking women; in the case of the
former the opium addiction had begun at about the middle of
the fertile period, the average age being 26.52 years; the
children borne by them before they started opium smoking num-
bered 277, those borne after the addiction had been established
only 168, which is only 60.65% of the number borne during the
pre-opium period. On the other hand, the non-smoking women,
of the same age as the opium addicts, had borne a total num-
ber of children of 296 before the age of 26.52 years, and of
306 children afterwards.
16) We also investigated the rate of childbirth by non-
opium smoking wives of male opium addicts; the wives of 673
male opium addicts gave birth to 1630 children during the
period from their marriage to the starting of opium smoking
by their husbands, that is to say the average was 4.13 years
for one child. The wives of 847 opium addicts gave birth to
2l95 children during the period of opium addiction by their
husbands in other words, the time between each two births
averaged 6.58 years, or 2.45 years more than during the pre-
vious period.
17) With regard to the relation between occupation and
opium smoking we investigated the occupation of 5,350 opium-
addicted patients and compared it with the occupation of the
general people over 20 years for which figures are given in
the special population census investigation of l930. The
average percentages for these two groups were found as follows:
(1) engaged in agriculture 42.08% (of the general population)
as against 25.55% (of the opium-addicted patients); (2) en-
gaged in fishery and salt industry 1.1% against 2.43%; (3)
in mining 0.75% against 1.72%; (4) in industries 4.72% against
9.66%; (5) in commerce 5.95 against 20.71%; (6) in trans-
portation 2.05? against 2.34 ; (7) in public service and
liberal professions 1.57 against 3.787; (8) in domestic ser-
vice 0.21 against 0.09%; (9) otherwise occupied 2.22% against

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
25.l8; (10) without occupation, including persons living on
their income from rentals, pensions, etc. 33.33 against 8.57.
The percentage of opium-addicted patients is excessively high
among the "otherwise employed" (specially by among coolies, day-
labourers, eto. ), also among those engaged i: commerce, in-
dustries, public service and liberal professions, fisheries
and people living on their income, while it is rather low among
those engaged in agriculture and in domestic service.
18) oncerning the education of opium-addicted patients we
investigated the records of 2,433 opium-addicted patients.
These showed that 5o.35 of this number could neither read nor
write; 38.02 of them knew only Chinese characters; the re-
maining 5.63% had received new style education, but the majo-
rity of them had only visited elementery school, and there
were very few who had received secondary education, and scarce-
ly any who could lay any claim to higher education.
19) Criminality among opium aadicts has been investi-
eated by us starting with the year 1905, when the Formosan
government published its first report on the general criminali-
ty in the island, and including the statistics up to l932.
"hile the total criminality of licensed opium addicts during
those 28 years amounted to 19,546 cases equal to 1.08" of the
number of addicts, the criminality among the non-opium smok-
ing population was onlv 409,825 cases, or 0.412" of the people
in general; in other words, the criminality among the licensed
opium addicts was from 2 to 3 times higher than among the non-
addicts. As for a classification of the criminal offences com-
mitted more frequently or less frequently by addicts than by
non-addicts, there is a comparatively greater proportion of
forgery of private documents, forgery of private seals, per-
jury, habitual gambling, keeping of common gambling-houses,
offences against the regulations for conducting the business
of common gaming-houses, theft and other crimes concerning stolen
property; among their criminal acts are particularly frequent
theft and forgery of private documents; on the other hand
the addicts offend less frequently by adultery, rape and vio-
lation, infliction of personal injuries by violence, and other
crimes accompanied with violence.
20) Summarising the statistical facts given above, the
following must be emphasized: in Formosa there is a goodly
number of opium addicts who though using from 3 to 4 grams of
prepared opium a dav,
live to the age of 60 to 70 and above;
but in any case opium smoking is bound to ruin the constitu-
tion of the body, causes anaemis, leads to a decrease of the
body weight, lowers the sexual function and the rate of child-
birth, and inoreases the death rate; further it increases
criminality and is generally harmful to the development of the
race.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
OCT
11936
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller.
894A.114 NARC0TiCS/34
I have the honor to refer to your communication, dated
September 18, 1936, File No. 894A.ll4 Narcotics/, enclosing
copies of League of Nations document No. O.C. l660, listing
certain monographs in regard to opium addiction in Formosa
and requesting that you be informed whether this Department
desires copies of these monographs, if so, how many of each,
and whether it is prepared to pay for them in case they can-
not be obtained free of charge.
I am informed that the United States Public Health
Service desires one copy each of the monographs in question.
However, the Surgeon General states that he is not prepared
to pay for these publications.
By direction of the Secretary:
001 22 1936
FILED
Very truly yours,
Zaylor
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.93)
©stober 22 1936
To the American Consul,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
The Secretary of State encloses herewith, for
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/35
the information of the American Consul at Taihoku,
the pertinent portion of League of Nations document
No. 0. C. 1660, dated August 28, 1936, entitled
"Statistioal Study in Regard to Opium Addiction in
Formosa".
It will be noted that this document refers to
fifteen monographs concerning research work in connec-
tion with opium smokers in Taiwan.
A communioation has been received from the
Treasury Department, whioh contains a zequest for
one eopy of each of the monographs in question,
provided swch publications are obtainable free of
charge, since the United States Public Health Service
is not prepared to pay for these monographs.
Accordingly, the Consul is requested to endeavor
to obtain withont cost two copies of sash of the
egaphs referred to in the enolosed list, of which
one sut would be retained in the Department and the
ether forearded to the Treasury Dapartment for the
wee of the Duresn of Kntal Hygiome, Uaited States
FaseReal sesvie.
CF
936PM
OCT
20/0/18

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
OPY:AT
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
0.c. 1660
ceneva, August 28th, 1936.
ADVI SORY COGTTTEL P TRAFFTO 1 OPTNE AND OTHER
DANNE ROU DRUG
TATISTICAL STUDY LA REGARD TO OL IUE ALDICTION ID F MOSA.
Rote by the Director of the pium raffic section.
Durin ite twentietn esin ( ay-Jime 19.5), the
Advisory Committee examined "ocument .0. 1408(1)(b) on
the statistics of mortality ne orin nality among
opium-smokers in ormosa.
ince that datt, t e Sonsul-Generel of Japan for-
r ed the ecretariat, on arch 26th, 1936, 1 bookle's
conoernin researeh work i. connection with opium-smokers
n Formosa.
One of the e bookleis, entitled "statietical Studies
in regard to Upium Addiction in ormosa (second Report)
Ly Professor r. mei o", in a continuation of the
information already forwarded to the Committee in
document 0.C. 1408(1)(b). A summary of this booklet
is therefore communicated herewith to the Advisory
Committee.
The other fourteen booklets (of which the following
is the list) deal with uestions of a medical character.
These booklets, of which only one copy of each has been
forwarded to the Seoretariat, are at the disposal of
he Advisory Committee.
List

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.95)
LIST OF BOOKLETS
on the subjeotive phenomena of abatinence in the ca e of
opiun addiots, by Dr. Jintetou h.
The funotion of tu vegete ive ner  y t m of mersons
acoustomed tomium,  Kuoo.
On the rapidity of reduction of t red blood corpuscle
in the case of onium a cicts, by r. Jintetsu On.
an the toxie conait ae me n o im rcomstomed to
opium trom birth, by rof. r.
5.
The white bloo cor uscle  f o ium acdict: under con i-
tions of abstinence, v Dr. Jintetm. On.
6.
n certain objective phenomena of bstinence i the cese
of opium audicts, b. r. Jintetsu h.
7.
Clinical observetions o the teeth and oft tissue o the
oral cavity of onium addics, b hizue Kobayashi.
B.
clinical obeervetions o t teet n sort tissue of
the orel crvity of opium addicts.
o munication
witn re  rd to the condition of the oral cavity of
human beins accustomeu to ium fron birtn, bv
hizuo Kobayashi.
9.
xperimental investiga ions of the blood  human beings
accustomed to opium, by r. Jintetsu h.
10. on the blood types of opium a dicts in Formosn, by
A sho Ro.
11. On the determination of morphine in the urine of onium
and morphine addicts and the practical anplieation of
the reaction, by some o and Asho Rin.
12. n the determination of morphine in the urine of onium
and morphine addicts and the practical epplication
of the reaction, by Somei To.
13. On the effeots of opium addiction on the sexual
funotion, by Kiroku Rai.
14. On abstinence phenomena ana objeotive conditions in
the case of a woman accustomed to opium from earliest
childhood, by Dr. Jintetsu Oh.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.95)
4
AMERICAN CONSULATE
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, December 7, 1936.
1937 JAN 5 AM 10 28
CONFIDENTIAL.
SuBJECT: Drug Traffic.
1—1055 G PO
THE HONORABLE
ue
80071937
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
394A.114 NARCOT1CS/
SIR:
I have the honor to report that two Formosan
Chinese members of a recent tourist party of Japanese
and Formosan Chinese visiting South China and South
Seas ports were arrested while at Makassar, Celebes,
Netherlands Indies, by the Netherlands authorities
on a charge of smuggling heroin. This information
has just been obtained from Mr. Kichijiro Saito,
Taihoku manager of the Taiwan Shimbun, a Taichu
3
newspaper which sponsored this tour of 79 Japanese
9
and Formosan Chinese business men on the specially-
chartered Japanese steamship HOZAN MARU.
This
vessel sailed from Keelung on October 1, 1936, and
touched at Takao, Hong Kong, Canton, Macao, Hainan,
Saigon, Bangkok, Singapore, Palenbung, Batavia,
Bandoeng, Soerakaria, Surabaya, Makassar, Dutch
Borneo, British Borneo, Davao, Zamboanga, Cebu,
Manila, thence back to Takao and Keelung, arriving
G
at Keelung on November 17, 1936.
According to Mr. Saito, the names of the men
AT
FILDD
arrested
1937

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Tei, Japanese promunciation (Tsa Bin Teng, Chinese
pronunciation), address Kiyomizu-gai, Taiko-gun,
Japanese pronunciation) (Eu Ten Fu, Chinese
pronunciation), address, same as above.
Although the Consulate's informant was a
member of the crusing party, he states that he knows
no particulars surrounding the alleged smuggling.
A copy of this despatch is being sent to the
American Consul at Surabaya.
Respectfully yours,
Edward S. Maney,
American Consul.
Original & 4 copies to Department;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo;
1 copy to Treasurer Attache, Shanghai;
1 copy to Consul, Surabaya.
Received WUM
File No. 8ll.4
ESM/tkh

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.93)
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, December 2, 1936.
SUBJECT:
Smuggling of Cocaine from Taiwan.
1—1055 G P D
37
THE HONGRABLE
NS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
A
WASHINGTON.
97 N 5
NONNO
R
AND
SIR:
894A.114 NARC0T 1CS/37
I have the honor to report that, according to
a news item appearing in the November 28, 1936, issue
of the Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo, the Keelung Water
Police are now engaged in investigating a ring of
cocaine smugglers who are reported to have planned
large shipments of this drug to South China. A
translation of the article in question is enclosed
herewith.
The Consulate has been unable to obtain any
further information on this case pending completion
of the police investigations. As soon as details
are obtained from official sources, a full report
will be submitted.
Respectfully yours,
JAN 7 1937
FEE
Zahanl$ Mang
American Consul.
Original and 4 copies to Department;
1 opy Consulate General, Tokyo;
G
1 copy to Treasurer Attache, Shanghai.
File No. 811.4
ESM/tkh

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
SMUGGLING OF COCAINE FROM TAIWAN - JAPANESE AND
FORETGNERS ARRESTED BY KEELUNG POLICE - MAY SPREAD
TO UNEXPECTED QUARTERS.
The Keelung Water Police has discovered cocaine
smuggling from Taiwan on a large scale, and arrested
one Gan Kei Tan (53 years old) of Minato Machi, Taihoku,
who is the leader of the gang, and sunmoned a large number
of Japanese and Formosans as witnessed for exa minations.
In cooperation with a oertain Japanese with
headquarters in Nagasaki the leader has been plotting
importation into Taiwan of over 2,ooo units of cocaine
valued at Yen lo0,O00 for reexportation to South China
under guise of licenses from the Kito Government
(North China Government). He employed a large number
of men for this purpose, and has been steadily preparing
to carry out the plan. A certain Korean who is now
on visit in Taihoku and is leading a luxurious life
in a hotel is also involved. A certain foreigner is
also behind the plot as capitalist. Japanese,
Formosans, Chinese and foreigners as well as Koreans
are involved. It is not known how men in wide
circles are involved. At present no actual goods
have been discovered, but details of plan for
smuggling have been worked out. Some shipments
might have already been made. It will take time
before the case will be officially published.
One Horai Katayama (50 years old) who was also
connected with similar cocaine smuggling sailed from
Keelung for Amoy on Ootober 25 on Canton Maru. There
arrived in Keelung on the Asahi Maru on the 29th a
passenger by the same name. The police were puzzled
as to identification, but it was after investigations
found that Mr. Katayama who came from Japan on the
Asahi Maru was true Katayama and another Katayama
who sailed for Amoy was assumed name.
Many letters of complaints sueing Gan now under
arrest for fraud and embezzlement have been submitted.
The case is greatly developing. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi
Shimpo November 28, 1936)
894

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
No. Unnumbered.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, December 4, 1936.
SUBJECT:
Monographs Concerning Research Work in
1—1055 G PO
Connection wi th Opium Smokers in Taiwan.
57
894A.114 NARCOTICS/38
THE HONGRABLE
OK
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
19357 JAN
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
35
the Department's memorandum instruction/of October
22, 1936 (File No. 894A.114 Narcotics/34), directing
the Consulate to endeavor to obtain two copies each
of fifteen monographs, described in the instruction,
concerning research work in connection with opium
8
smokers in Taiwan.
A letter has today been addressed to the
Direotor General of the Taiwan Government General
requesting the monographs under reference. As soon
as these publications are received, they will be
forwarded under cover of a transmitting despatch.
Respectfully yours,
Zhnal S Mane
Eawarars. Maney,
G
American Consul.
File No. 81l.4
ESM/tkh
JAN 6 1937
In duplicate to Department;
FILED
1 oopy to Consulato General, Tokyo.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
January 5 1937
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Naroot1cs/36
894A.114-NARCOTiCS/39
CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Customs Agency Service
The Aoting Seoretary of State presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of the
Treasury, and enoloses herewith, in duplioate, for
the confidential information of the Treasury Depart-
ment, a copy of despatoh No. 57, dated December 7,
1936, from the American Consulate at Taihoku, in
regard to the arrest at Makassar, Celebes, Nether-
lands Indies, of two Formosan Chinese on a charge
of amuggling heroin.
Enclosure:
thehsigned origi-
From Consulate, Taihoku
true copy of
No. 57, December 7, 1936,
in duplicate.
S
OR
JAN B 1937.PM
1/5/37
FE:HCS:AT

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.91)
O
Janvary 6 1957
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Naroot1cs/37
894A.I14-NARCOTiCS/40
Attention: Customs Agency Service
The Acting Seoretary of State presents his
compliments to the Honorable the Secretary of the
Treasury, and encloses herewith, in duplicate, for
the information of the Treasury Department, a copy
of dempatoh No. 56, dated December 2, 1936, from
the American Consul at Taihoku, together with a
copy of its enclosure, in regard to the smuggling
of cocaine from Taiwan to South China.
Enclosure:
From Consulate, Taihoku
No. 56, Deeember 2, 1936
with enclosure, in duplicate.
S
No8
X
1/8/37
FEIHOS:AT
e

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.93)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.
4 NARCOTICS/41
SEE
856E.114 Narcotics/37
List #2
FOR
FROM
Geneva
Jan. 14, 1937
) DATED
TO
NAME
1--1127
REGARDING:
O.C.S./Conf./134, seizure of heroin and morphine
at Buitenzorg, Java, on Oct. 27, 1936. Encloses - .
5
w
in

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
Janvary 29 1937.
STRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
To the Amerioan Consul,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
894A.
The Secretary of State refers to despatch No. 57,
dated December 7, 1936, from the Amerioan Consulate
at Taihoku, in regard to the arrest at Makassar, Celebes,
11
Netherlands Indies, of two Formosan Chinese on a charge
4
of smuggling heroin.
NARCOTICS/
There is enolosed herewith, for the information
of the Consulate, a copy of League of Natione doou-
mont No. 0.0.8./Confident1al/134, dated January 5, 1937,
whioh is the offioial report of the Netherlands Govern-
ment to the Seeretary General of the League of Nations,
42
in regard to the seizure referred to above.
The enolosed dooument, whioh is of a confidential
nature, is transmitted merely for the confidential
information of the Consulate at Taihoku and should
not be disolosed to the Japanese authorities.
M. Yuk1, referred to in the enolosed document,
previoualy had been implieated in the smuggling of
narootio druge into Canada and the United States.
JAN 29 1937.
CR
Enclosure!
League dooument No. 0.0.8./
Confidential/184, January 5, 1937.
H
)
8565.114 Narooties/37
Hes
S
FE:HCS:AT
1/28/37

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.96)
62.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, January 20, 1937.
SuBJEct: Smuggling of Cocaine from Taiwan.
1—1055 G PO
HeuoSuasury,
6
THE HONORABLE
894A.114 NARC0TICS/43
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 56
of December 2, 1936 (File No. 8l1.4), enclosing a
translation of a local newspaper article conceming
an alleged ring of cocaine smugglers who were reported
to have planned large shipments of this drug from
Taiwan to South China.
The Consulate is now in receipt of a police
report on this case from the Taiwan Government General,
a translation of which is enclosed herewith. Apparently
the principal suspect has been indicted for fraud
rather than for smuggling. It seems that no actual
shipments of cocaine had been made by the persons
under investigation.
Respectfully yours,
Ehand M
American Consul.
FEB 23 1937
Imclosure:
FILED
1. Translation of Police Report.
File No. 81l.4
RSM/tkh
Original and 4 copies to Department;
1 copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
GOVERNMENT GENERAL OF TATWAN
1. Fact of crime.
Legal address: No. 343 Aza Keinan, Okei, Sankyo-sho,
Kaizan-gun, Taihoku-shu.
Present address: No. 29 Minato-cho 2 Chome, Taihoku,
Taihoku-shu.
Name: Gan Kei Tan, in coal mining business.
Born February 1, 1896.
Gan Kei Tan, the suspect, was graduated from the
Taihoku National Language School, and taught for
several years as a primary school teacher. By nature
he had interest in speculative enterprises, and soon
resigning the educational profession he operated coal
mining business. Later for one year he was engaged in
sale and purchase of gold bullions, in which business
he made enormous profits. While he was in continuous
search for this sort of enterprise, on or about Sep-
tember 5, 1935 he heard from Kyosuke Matsui of No. 1
Taisho-cho 1 Chome, Taihoku and others that exports
of cocaine were lucrative. Then he planned exports
of cocaine. He recuested Yasuji Kikuchi, witness,
with whom he was associated, to obtain a permission
from the Government General. He only sent an inquiry
to his friend Seiryo Masuda in Dairen requesting that
cocaine import license from the Kito Govenment, China,
and visa of the Consul General at Tientsin be obtained.
Not only the export license of the Government General
but also the license from the Kito Government were
entirely hopeless of being obtai ned. In spite of the
fact that both Yasuji Kikuchi and Seiryo Masuda had not
made any definite reply regarding prospects of obtaining
the licenses, he made it known in tactful words to
witnesses Sogoro Horiuchi and Misao Miyata in his home
or in the witnesses' homes during the period from about
September 15, 1935 to about the end of December that
year that it was already arranged that Yasuji Kikuchi
would with responsibility obtain a license from the
Government General for export of cocaine, that it was
also arranged that the license from the Kito Government
and the visa from the Consul would be granted as soon
as he went to China, that cocaine priced Yen 2o0 for
purchase could be sold for Yen 380 f.o.b. Keelung in
cash before delivery, that by handling 5,00o kilograms
a profit of Yen 500,000 to Yen 600,000 could be
made, and asked them to cooperate in the enterprise.
He thus misled them. The above two persons had been
seeking some capitalist who would invest Yen 5,0oo to
Yen 6,000 which was necessary as expenses in obtaining
license from the Kito Government and Consul's visa.
About February 5, 1936 he let the two persons induoe
Senjiro Teranishi, President of the Hokuto Yogyo
Kabushiki Kaisha (Hokuto Ceramio Industry Co., Ltd.),
No. 1

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No. 1 of No. 155, Kateibetsu, Hokuto-sho, Shichisei-
gun, Taihoku-shu, and he himself told to the above
Teranishi at the home of witness Sogoro Horiuchi
in much more exaggerated terms the matters he told
to the above two persons. He said: "I requested
one of my acquaintances who is in the employ of the
Bureau of Police Affairs as Police Superintendent
to obtain a license from the Government General.
I have already arre ged with the Police Superintendent
that he would without fail obtain the license. As
a result of negotiations with Seiryo Masuda of Dairen
a definite arrangement has been made for granting
of a license from the Kito Government and the Consul's
visa at any time upon my visit to China. Cocaine
purchased at Yen 200 can be sold for Yen 380 in any
quantity in cash before delivery, and a profit of
Yen 500,000 to Yen 600,000 can be made."
He thus in honeyed words defrauded Senjiro
Teranishi and misled the latter. He obtained by
fraud from Senjiro Teranishi the following amounts
at the following places and dates as expenses
necessary in movements for obtaining cocaine import
license from the Kito Government and visa (endorsement?)
of Consul General at Tientsin which are required in
obtaining an export license of cocaine from the
Government General:
On February 17, 1936 Yen 30.00 at the home of
Sogoro Horiuchi, No. 3 Kamikeifu-cho 3 Chome.
On the next day, 18th, Yen 300 at the address of
the suspect.
On the next day, 19th, Yen 1,200 at the same
place.
On February 27 that year Yen 1,500 at Seiryu
Bank, Dairen.
On March 10 that year Yen 1,000 at the Tientsin
branch of the Seiryu Bank, Japanese Settlement,
Tientsin.
On March 16 that year Yen 500 at Okazaki Bank,
Kobe.
On April 17 that year Yen 100 at the Kobe Branch
of the Bank of Taiwan, Kaigan-dori, Kobe.
On April 28 that year Yen 500 at the address
of the suspeot.
On May 2 that year Yen 100 at the address of
the suspect.
On May 7 that year Yen 230 at the Shin Raku
En

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
En Hotel, Hokuto.
During the same period Yen 140 in several lots
at the address of the suspect and other places
as expenses for telegrams, taxi and cab hire,
entertainment, etc. Total amount Yen 5, 60o.
2. Discovery of the case and progress of searches.
From the summer of 1936 to the beginning of autumn
that year rumors were current that smugglers of cocaine
on a large scale were active. Therefore the police
started secret searches, and on November 16 one Kokuki
Teranishi who is a nephew of the above mentioned
Senjiro Teranishi, President of the Hokuto Yogyo
Kabushiki Kaisha, who is the victim in this case
sent in a complaint aginst the suspect that a large
amount of money was defrauded by the suspect on the
pretence of cocaine exports. The police sunmoned
interested persons for searches, but at first
the suspect talked big that the plan in this case was
possible of success, that the plan was still in progress,
that the plan was started as Yasuji Kikuchi, witness,
promised to obtain a cocaine export permit from the
Taiwan Government General with responsibility and
without fail, and that therefore he had not acted
under any intention of committing an unlawful act.
However, as a result of examination of Ri Ko Ki,
resident of Tientsin, to whom a request was alleged
to have been made regarding passport from the Kito
Government and especially visa from the Consul General
at Tientsin, and of Yasuji Kikuchi who was alleged
to have undertaken to obtain a license from the
Government General, it was found that it was entirely
impossible to obtain Consul's visa on passport, that
the Government General's policy was not to grant the
export permit, that it was entirely hopeless to obtain
this permit, and that Yasuji Kikuchi had not made such
a statement. Then the suspect deposed that through his
experience and blind conclusion he dreamed of luck
by chance, that he exaggerated and tempted in honeyed
words that the granting of license was certain and
that profits of several hundred thousand yen could
be made, and that he committed the crime in this case.
On December 4, 1936 the police sent the suspeot
to the Proourators' Office, attaching the opinions
that he is guilty.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.94)
No. Unnumbered.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, January 18, 1937.
SUBJECT:
Monographs Concerning Research Work
1—1055 G P O
in Connection With Opium Smokers in Taiwan.
6
2
Al. 20, 431
THE HONORABLE
Acs
File
Cafey i 7E
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
1937
1971
WASHINGTON.
Fetruary
SIR:
894A.114 NARCOTICS/44
I have the honor to refer to my unnumbered
despatch of December 4, 1936 (File No. 811.4),
acknowledging the receipt of the Department's
3s
memorandum instruction of October/22, 1936 (File
No. 894A.114 Narcotics/34), directing the Consulate
to endeavor to obtain two copies each of fifteen
monographs, described in the instruction, concerning
research work in connection with opium smokers in
Taiwan.
Two copies each of the fifteen monographs in
question have today been mailed to the Department
under separate cover.
FEB 23 1937
Respectfully yours,
FILED
Halth
Zhhal SMome
Edwardfs. Maney,
American Consul.
ccompaniment: 15 monographs on
opium smokers in
Taiwan.
File No. 81l.4
ESM/tkh
Original and 1 copy to Department;
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894A.
SEE
894.114 Narcotics/252
FOR
DESCRIPTIVE ENTRY
.11
4 NARCOTICS/45
FROM
) DATED Dec. 30, 1936
TO
NAM
-1127
oro
REGARDING:
C.541.M.350.1936.XI.(0.C./A.R.1935/45).
Annual Report by Japan for 1935.
w

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
February 28 1937
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/43
CONFIDENTIAL
894A.I14 NARCOTiCS/46
Attention: Customs Agency Service
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and,
with reference to this Department's communication
dated January 6, 1937, encloses herewith, in duplioate,
for the confidential information of the Treasury
Department, a copy of despatch No. 62, dated January 20,
1937, from the American Consulate at Taiwan, with further
reference to the alleged plan to smug le large quanti-
ties of cooaine from Taiwan to South China.
Enclosure!
From Consulate, Taiwan
No. 82, January 30, 1937
with translation, in duplicate.
FEB 201937.
cony of
signed origt-
na
2/19/37
FE:HCS:AT
FE

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.90)
rebruary 23 1937.
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/
Attention: Public Health Service
894A.114 NARCOTICS/47
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the secretary of the Treasury, and,
with reference to the Treasury Department's letter
dated Ootober 16, 1936, encloses herewith fifteen
monographs coneerning research work in conneotion
with opium smokers in Taiwan.
Enolosures:
Fifteen monographs.
FEB 20 1937
som
s
10
Adq
A O
HOS
2/20/37
SeF
FE:HCS:AT
FE

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
7
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RLCLIVED
DECAPTMENT OF ATE
WASHINGTON
MAR 4 1937
1937 MAR 5 AM 9 35
April 14 1937
OF
ATIONS
Sir:
This will acknowledge receipt of your communication,
FE 894A.1l4 Narcotics, enclos ng therewith fifteen mono-
graphs concerning research work in connection with opium
smokers in Taiwan.
Very truly yours,
X
Assistant Secretary of the Treesury
/48
MAR 5 1937
FILED

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
April 14 1937
To the American Consul,
Taiboku, Taiwan. .
The Seoretary of state refers to the Depart-
ment's instruotion of Ootober 22, 1936, and encloses
herewith, for the infor ation of the American Consul
at Taihoku, a copy of League of Nations document
No. 0.c. 1660(a), dated Apri1 1, 1937, in regard to
894A.114-NARCOTICS/49
solentific research concerning opium addiotion in
Formosa.
It will be noted that thi: cdocument refers to
twenty-two different pamphlets, numbered sixteen to
thirty-seven, inolusive, in addition to those forwarded
by the Consul to the Department on January 18, 1937.
The Coneul is requested to endeavor to obtain,
without cost, two coples of eaoh of the monographs
in question in order that one set may be forwarded
to the Treasury Department for the us of the Bureau
of Mental Hygiene, United States Publio Health Servioe,
and the other may be plaoed in the Department library.
Enclosure:
APR 74 1937
League dooument No. 0.0. 1680(a),
dated April 1, 1937.
m
894A.114 Narootice/
S
A trup coy of
the od eiat
nal.
FE: GAM: AT
RP
4/13/37
6b.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
AMERICAN CONSULATE
GENEVA, SWITZERI AUC
DcP
Rc' APR 3 1937
LEAGUE OF NATIONS.
POLIFICAE SECTION
Geneva, Apr1l 1st,
1937.
ADVISORY COPMITTEE ON TRAFFIC IN OPIUM AND OTHER DANGEROUS DRUGS.
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH CONCTRNING OFIU ADDICTION IN FORMOSA.
Note by the Director of the Opium Traffic Section.
The Director has the honour to inform the Advisory
Committee that the Representative of Japan has cormunicated to
the Secreteriat twenty-two different pamphlets in regard to
the above sub ject.
These pamphlets are in the archives of the Secretariat
and are at the disposal of the memrers of the Committee.
It will be remembered that fifteen pamphlets of a
similar character were received last year.
(See document
0.C.1650).
The following is the list of the pamphlets:-
No.l6. The Pharmacological Action of Meconic Acid, ry
Kazuo Kubota.
17. On the Furction of the Female Genitals of Opium Addicts.
By Keien Ko.
18. The Influence of Opium-alkaloids on the Blood Sugar
of Rathits. By Asho Ro. First Report.
15. do.
Second Report.
20. do.
Third Report.
21. do.
Fourth Report.
22.
do.
Fifth Report.
23.
do.
Sixth Report.
24.
do.
Seventh Report.
25.
The Influence of Opium Alkaloids or the Sexual Cycle
of Female Mice. By Keien Ko.
26.
The Influence of Apomorphin and Some of its Derivatives
on the Blood Sugar of the Rabbit. By Chosei Ko.
27.
On the Exodic Action of Opium Alkaloids on the Isolated
Intestinal Canal of Rabtits. By Keien Ko.
28.
The Influence of Specific Habituation to Opium Alkaloids
on the Blood Sugar of Rattits.
First Report. By
Chosei Ko.
29. do. Second Report.
P.T.O.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.90)
一 2 -
30. The Influerce of Some Opium Alkalcids on the Amount
of Blood Adrenalir in Morphinist Rabbits. By C. Ko.
31. On the Action of Narcotine on Isolated Organs by T. Ri.
32.
1"
n
"
"
II
33.
"
III
34. On the Blood Fressure of Opium Addicts, by K. Rai.
35.
On the Influence of the Opium Alkeloids on the Catalase
Content of the Blood and of the Organs of Rabbits.
First Report. By Shôren Chô.
36.
About the Compound Action of Morphine and Atropine on
Isoleted Orgens. By Ro Asho.
37.
Cn the Influence of the Opium Alkaloids on the Flood
Sugar of Rattits. By Asho Ro.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
14 1937
April
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/
Attention: Public Health Service
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894A.114-NAFCOTICS/50
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and,
referring to this Department's letters of September 18,
1936, and February 23, 1937, enoloses herewith, in
duplicate, for the information of the Treasury Depart-
ment, a copy of League of Nations document No. O.C.
1660(a), dated April 1, 1937, in regard to scientific
research concerning opium addiction in Formosa.
The American Consul at Taihoku is being instruoted
to endeavor to obtain, if possible, without cost, for
the use of the Bureau of Mental Hygiene, United States
Publio Health Service, a copy of each of the monographs
referred to in the enclosed document.
Enclosure:
League dooument No. 0.C. 1660(a),
dated April 1, 1937, in duplioate.
A ue 
APR 14 1937.
the stgned erigt-
nal.
S
pam
4
FE: GAM: AT
FE
RP
B.W
4/12/37

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
April 14 1937
In reply refer to
73 804A.114 Narootios/
Attentioni Publio Health Service
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
894A.
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and,
referring to this Department's letters of September 18,
11
1938, and February 23, 1937, enoloses herewith, in
duplicate, for the information of the Treasury Depart-
NAF C OT I CS /50
ment, a copy of League of Nations document No. O.C.
1660(a), dated Apr11 1, 1937, in regard to soientific
researoh concerning opium addiction in Formosa.
The Amerioan Consul at Taihoku is being instruoted
to endeavor to obtain, if possible, without cost, for
the use of the Bureau of Mental Hygiene, United States
Publio Health Service, a copy of each of the monographs
referred to in the enclosed document.
Enolosure:
League dooument No. 0.C. 1660(a),
dated April 1, 1937, 1n duplioate.
A  
APR 14 1937.
QR√
the signed origt-
nal.
S
FE: GAM: AT
FE
RP
B.O
4/12/37

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.91)
August 17 1937
To the American Consular Officer in charge,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
894A.I14 NARCOTiCS/52
The Seoretary of State refers to the Department's
instruotion of April 14, 1937, and inquires whether
the Consular Officer in charge at Taihoku has been
able to obtain the pamphlets referred to in regard
to scientific research concerning opium addiotion
in Formosa.
s0s.114 Nareoties/40
A true coby lof
pam
the signd origid
nal,
FEI GAMIAT
4
RP
8/14/37
Dus

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
NO. Unnumbered.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, July 30, 1937.
437
SuBJEct: Transmitting pamphlets on scientific
1—1055 G P O
research concerning opium addiction
in Taiwan.
J2
THE HONORABLE
is
THE SEGRETARY OF STATE,
Jle
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/
LE
11
3 7 .
1-
WASHINGTON.
11)
C
SIR:
DEFAR
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
Instruction of April /14, 1937, File No. 894A.114
Narcoti cs, requesting the Consulate to obtain two
copies of each of twenty-two different monographs
on scientific research concerning opium addiction
in Taiwan.
There are transmitted under separate cover two
5
copies each of twenty of the requested pamphlets,
3
which were procured without cost from the Government
General of Taiwan. The Government General states
that it no longer has copies of No. 17, On the
Function of the Female Genitals of Opium Addicts,
by Keien Ko, and No. 37, On the Influence of the
Opium Alkaloids on the Blood Sugar of Rabbits. by
Asho Ro. Since the Government General is the sole
source of supply of these monographs, the Consulate
SEP 11 193
is unable to obtain the missing numbers elsewhere.
Respectfully yours,
Alvin T. Rowe, Jr,
Accompaniment:
American Vice Consul.
Twenty monographs on opium
addiction in Taiwan.
In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.95)
25
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narootics/53
Attention: Public Health Service
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and,
referring to this Department's letter dated April 14,
894A.
1937, emoloses herewith two copies each of twenty
pamphlets, numbered 16 and 18 to 36 inclusive in League
of Wations dooument No. 0.C. 1660 (a), in regard to
4
seientifio researoh ooncerning opium addiction in
NARCOTiCS/
Formosa, which have been received from the American
Consulate at Taihoku.
The Consulate reports that the supply of two
of the pamphlets listed in League document No. 0.C.
1860 (a), No. 17 "On the Funotion of the Female Genitals
5
of Opium Addiots", by Ieien Ko, and No. 37 (On the Influ-
4
emoe of the Opium Alkaloids on the Blood Sugar of Rabbits",
by Aaho Ro is exhausted and copies are not optainable.
Enclosures:
Two copies each of twenty pamphlets.
1937.PM
M
S
FE: GAM: AT
KP
9/10/37

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
O470 League of Nations
6
RECLTREASURY DEPARTMENT
ASTEN
WASHINGTON
1937 SEP 17 AM 9 33
SEP 16 1937
D.VISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Div sfon of
The Honorable
AND RECORDS
FAR ETEAN AFFAIRS
The Secretary of State
Sir:
Acknowledgment is made of your communication of
September 10, 1937, enclosing therewith two copies each
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/55
of twenty pemphlets, numbered 16 and 18 to 36 inclusive
in League of Nations document No. 0. C. 1660(e), in re-
gard to scientific research concerning opium addiction
in Formosa, which were received from the American Con-
sulate at Taihoku.
Very truly yours,
Te Trorhe
Astaft Secretary of the Treasury
SEP 18 193
FILD

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.96)
Ootober 9 1937
To the American Consular Officer in charge,
Taihoku, Taiwan.
The Secretary of State refers to Note 12,
Seetion 72l of the Consular Regulations and informs
the Consular Officer in charge at Taihoku that the
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/56
Department does not appear to have received the
following publication in regard to the control of
the traffic in narcotic drus in Taiwan:
Taiwan Government General Ordinance No. 5
of December 5, 1936, amending the Taiwan
Opium Ordinance, Taiwan Government General
Ordinance No. 3 of 1928
The Consular Officer in charge is requested
to obfain, if possible, five copies of the above-
mentioned law and to forward them with transla-
tion, likewise in quintuplicate, to the Department.
804A.114 Marooties/
gean
F8IGAM:AT
10/7/37
A true
01957.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
NO.. 26.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, September 29, 1937.
SUBJECT:
Pamphlets on scientific research concerning
1—1065 G PO
opium addiction in Taiwan.
3
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/57
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
11
With reference to the Department's instruction
of August 17, 1937, file no. 8944.114 Narcotics/49,
enquiring whether the Consulate has been able to
obtain the pamphlets on scientific research con-
cerning opium addiction in Taiwan, requested in
the Department's instruction of April 14, 1937,
I have the honor to report that available copies
of the pamphlets in question were forwarded as an
accompaniment to the Consulate's despatch of July
30, 1937.
The monographs were requested in a note to
the Bureau of Foreign Affairs dated May 24, 1937,
and were received on July 27, 1937.
Respectfully yours,
Alvin T. Rowe, Jr.
File No. 8ll.4
American Vice Consul.
ATR/tkh
In duplicate to Department.
1 copy to Censulate General, Tekye.
9 193
FILED

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
No. Ummumbered.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, December 3, 1937.
SumJect: Laws and Regulations Governing the
24 938.
1-1006
GPO
Importatfon of Cannabis Sativa.
t hay.
January
g6
THE HONORABLE
FARS
YAM
STAE
26281937
T SECRETARY OF STATE.
0
Copartment of State
CF
WASHINGTON.
EC8 
6
894A.114 NARCOTiCS/5B
Diplomatic Serial No. 2833 of September 9, 1937
requesting information concerming laws and regulations
governing the importation of cannabis sativa and
114har
its derivatives.
In this connection there are being transmitted
under separate cover five copies of the publication
ntitled "Opium System of Taiwan", 1936 edition,
compiled by the Bureau of Police Affairs of the
Taiwan Government General. In the covering letter
of the Direotor General of Administration in
fumishing these pamphlets the observation was made
that " since there is no demand in Taiwan for Indian
hemp and its preparations, there is accordingly no
importation thereof into Taiwan".
Respeotfully yours,
Ted Wan
Gerald Warner
American Consul.
JAN5 1938
File No. 811.4
Gwr/tkh
In duplicate to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
5Inl

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.90)
目次
一臺游阿片制度沿革及概要
(一)(二)(三)(b)(F)
阿片者認定及吸食特許
吸食特許及矯正處分後警察取綿改善三七
阿片癮者矯正效果
1
阿片者認定及其吸食量指定三
-)(二)(三)(b4)(I)
1

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan
From
at
Consular Office
December 3, 1937
Despatch, No.
Date..
Instrudions, Date September 9,193File_811.4
Laws and Regulations Governing the Impor-
For tation of Cannabis Sativa
No. copies Sent 5 Ragmady Occasionally
Smptap
The Government General of Taiwan.
Source
1-1203

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.88)
四減藥類取締概要……
1
2
關係法令…
一
臺灣阿片令……
臺灣阿片令施行規則……
臺灣總督府阿片總矯正所規程
阿片應矯正手續
臺灣麻藥類取締規則…

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.87)
一臺灣阿片制度ノ沿革及概要
我力帝國力本島二新政ヲ施キタル當初二於統治上大二內外ノ注意ヲ喚起シタルモノ八阿片吸食
二關スル處分問題ニシテ世論八禁烟非禁烟二岐レ大二論議セラレタリシカ元來帝國ノ方針トシテ
夙二阿片斷禁制ヲ確立シアルヲ以テ斷禁二向フへキハ固ョリ其ノ所ナリシモ當時臺灣島民ノ實狀八
既二久シク阿片吸食ノ惡習二染ミ其習辯根薄甚夕深ク一朝一夕二シテ之力絕對禁止ヲ斷行シ難
キモノアリ於茲已ムナク彼等藤者ノ餘命ヲ保タシメントスル人道上ヨリニ懸ニ陷リタル者ニ對
シ其ノ吸食ヲ認ム八漸禁政策ヲ確立シ明治二十九年二月政府以外ノ阿片輪入ヲ禁止シ島民中二
吸食ノ習ア八者二八一定ノ規則ノ下二藥用卜シテ阿片ノ使用ヲ特許スル旨ヲ論告シ其ノ翌三十年
一月臺灣阿片令ヲ發布シ一般二阿片ノ吸食ヲ禁止スル卜共二政府ノ指定スル醫師ノ診斷二依阿片
應者卜認云ル者二限阿片烟膏ノ吸食ヲ特許シ而シテ是等特許者二對シテ八專賣制二依阿片烟膏
ヲ僕給尙阿片烟膏吸食所開設吸食器具製造販賣等八之ヲ特許營業卜シ同年四月ョ本令
ヲ龍行シ同時二庶民二對シテ八本令發布要旨ヲ論告スル卜共二阿片應者ノ網羅二著手シ明治三十
三年九月之ヲ終了七當時ノ特許者八十六萬九千六十四人二達之爾後八正當理由ア網羅二漏
レタル實情アルモノニアラサレハ吸食ヲ特許セサルコトトシ一方教育上ヨリ阿片ノ書毒ヲ了知セー

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.87)
シメ他方警察取編ヲ嚴二シテ懸辯傳播ノ防止二努メタリ然ル二阿片吸食ノ風習八一朝二シテ斷然一
2
防止シ得サルモノアリ其ノ後秘ノ裡二懸二陷リタルモノアリテ巳ムヲ得ス明治三十七八年二三萬一
五百四十三人同四十一年二一萬五千八百四十九人二對新二吸食特許七爾來二十有餘年全夕
特許ヲ行八又昭和三年末現在吸食特許者八僅力二二萬七千餘人二減少其漸減成績頗八顯著二
シラ將二本制度モ有終ノ美ヲ濟サントスルノ狀況二在リタリ然ル二尙不勘密吸者懸者力潛在シ居
八實狀十リシ二鑑ミ舊制度ノ缺陷ヲ補匕懸辯傳播絕對防止ヲ畫スル必要ヲ認メ且ッ千九百二十五
年壽府阿片協定實施ノ爲從來ノ法制二改正ヲ加フル要アリシヲ以テ昭和三年十二月臺灣阿片令ヲ改
正之四年一月施行右協定實施二遺漏十力ラシメタ八八勿論特二密吸食夫レ自體ノ取締ヲ骨子卜
シ斷禁確保ノ新政策ヲ確立セリ卽チ吸食特許八改正阿片令施行前穩者夕八コトヲ絕對ノ條件卜
シ一般的吸食ノ斷禁ヲ宣示シテ新政策ノ基礎ヲ闡明シ而シテ密吸食犯二對シテ八絕對自由刑ヲ以
臨三尙行政處分二依八者矯正新政策確立七斯夕根本的二制度理想的二改革之元應辯傳
播ノ防止ヲ確保シ而シ施行前ノ密吸食懸者ヲ悉ク網羅シ已ムヲ得サ八者五千五百十八人二對シラ
八最終的二新特許ヲ行匕其他者一萬三千五百三人二對之テ八之ヲ矯正處分二附之尙既特許者二
對シテモ更二檢診ヲ行匕三千八百八十四人ヲ矯正處分二附シ千二百五十三人ヲ廢烟七シメ結局特許
者數八依然漸減ノ狀況二テ密吸食懸者ヲ一掃辯膏旨二入リ夕ル者二限吸食ヲ特許シ其ノ他

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.80)
麤者八悉ク矯正救懸スルコトトナリ約二萬ノ絕對數蘇者ヲ減少シ著シク斷禁ノ完成ヲ促進セシ
タリ玆二本島統治上ノ難問題タル本制度モ近キ將來二濟美ノ實ヲ舉ケントスル狀況ナ
本制度確立以來特許者漸減及阿片烟膏消費量減少狀況ヲ示七八左表ノ如
本島人阿片烟膏吸食特許者各年末現在表
吸
食
特
許
者
死亡細及
吸食恃許者
年
人口百二付比例
男
女
計
差引法數
指
数
明
治
三十年
四七六八八
二九〇九
11.1
同
三十一年
八八四八六
六九六三
九五、四四九
m·六
同
三十二年
六三六〇
H·0
三十三年
一五三九七三
一三O八九
一六九〇六四
100
三十三年
九月
一五二九三〇
一六五七三二
六11
2
同
三十四年
一四五二六七
一五七六一九
三十五年
IMO1
IMMm
一四三四九二
M·O
111
八
三十六年
一二九九五九
一二九四四
一M二ROm
P2
三十七年
一三七九二
王
二
三十八年
101
一三O四七六
11
三十九年
一〇七一九九
11m1
111MMO
1.0
21
四十年
九九八八三
八一六三
六十
四十一年
1001
一四九七三
一二九九九一
m.x
王
六
21
一
3
四十二年
10卷2
M·
10°0mx

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.80)
明
治四十三年
九六七
m-11
1022
同
四十四年
九二九七三
11.2
六011
大
正元
年
七五、九九九
11-4
KO
11
國
11
年
10七四
11-
11
1
年
101m
七六九九五
11.m
1mm
IK
同
四
年
六二一
九五五九
11.1
MO
111
同
五
年
五七八三九
六六八四七
11.0
四八六
10
六
年
八四七九
1八
同
七
年
五七七三
1.
六五四六
mm
同
入
年
1.
m1
九
年
六六三七
011
1.m
同
十
年
1·M
11
同
十
年
二1
1.11
二八1
同
十二年
二二九六五
五四九八
三九四六三
1.1
二六四三
lim
同
十三年
1.1
二八
1i1
同
十四年
120C1
三七三
0.九
110
昭
和元
年
C.八
10
同
11
年
1
0.4
二三九一
1
同
11
年
二三0九1
三八三一
二六九四三
0.六
1101
1
同
四
年
十五九
0.六
1
同
五
年
一九三九五
三八四
C.
10
六
年
一七七六七
一九三九
1m
同
七
年
一九三三三
0.1
一七六六
1川1

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.77)
昭和八
二九七九
110
0.1
1411
同
九
一三四三
一六一九0
0·m
1kmo
10
同
十
二四六六
1六四四
一五四九
備考
明治三十三年九月八阿片者網羅終了時十
明治三十七年ョり同三十八年二亙三萬五百四十三人同四十一年二一萬五千八百四十九人二對新二吸食ヲ特許七
減敷欄中刊八新特許ノ結果二依ル增加ヲ示ス
明治三十五年末二於テ女吸食特許者ノ多數トナリシ八統計ノ誤謬ヲ發見シタル二由ル
本島人阿片烟膏吸食特許者年齡級別表
年
大
三十歲未滿
三十歲以上
四十歲以上
五十歲以上
六十歲以上
七十歲以上
計
明治三十五年
一七六九三
四四六九三
二六二六三
八六五八
1mm
三十六年
二三六七
101
二三三六八
1<0
一M二RO
三十七年
四三二八七
二三四九
八六六九
I'EYE
三十八年
一三九八六
1111
1四六
IMOM
三十九年
11.2mm
三七、七〇六
一六六八
1川11MO
1
5
四十年
m'm
三六〇七
二三一三六
2011
1六四六
1

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.82)
明
治
四十一年
10°mm
三六八三四
三七五六一
21111
121
一二九九九一
一
同
四十二年
三三六九五
二三三九四
12m1
10九九
6
1
同
四十三年
二六一五
八九八
1
九六九八七
四十四年
三八七
八九三
10
九二九七五
大
正元
年
二六1
111110
八九〇七
同
11
年
一五九八
MO00
21011
同
111
年
1110
一五一三六
八八九0
一九一三
七六九九五
同
四
年
八公0
一三五八六
二0
1九0六
同
五
年
110
10公
一九八六四
八六三
同
六
年
八七一
一九三四二
一九四三
同
七
年
九
五五三
100
八九九三
同
八
年
111
三六六九
九五二五
二四
同
九
年
10
一五四五七
九六九一
二六七五
201
同
十
年
2
一九0六
同
十
1
年
1二
九六
210
同
十 1二
111
一一九九
110:10
八六四九
元四
同
十三年
六九0
20
10
八七六
同
十四年
ME1
六卷
一四九公六
八八公
昭
和元
年
12
101
八
三九六八
同
11
年
三公公公
三22
九九七八
同
111
年
八九八五
二六九四二
同
四
年
101
八七三五
同
五
年
六〇六
12
八二五
七九

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.85)
同
六
年年年
0
七五八五
MOE
同
七
六
二九一三
一九三三二
同
八
三五六
110110
五七五二
六八元
二八六
12210
同
九
1EE
六五八八
二八公七
同
十
備考
明治三十四年以前八統計二誤謬アリ之力正誤ノ資料十キ二付本表二ハ之ヲ省略セリ
中華民國人阿片烟膏吸食特許者各年末現在表
年
男
女
計
年
男
女
計
明治三十八年
七八九
六
七九五
大正元年
九六四
110
同三十九年
九
同
11
年
10111
三元
10M0
同
四十年
10
同
111
年
m1
112
四十一年
八七三
1川1
公
同
四
年
1M11
同
四十二年
1K
九四八
同
五
年
1211
11
一九
同
四十三年
14
九九五
同
六
年
二七一
二八一
7
同
四十四年
1
九六三
同
七
年
110k
二九

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.85)
一
大正八年
11
1<1
同
四
年
个
三
一
九年
九三
10
10110
同
五
年
110€
11m
11m1
8
同
十年
八一五
九三
210
年
110
1111
1
同
十一年
八二
八二七
大正七年
14E
12
一九一
同
十二年
六四
同
八
年
1
1
141
同
十三年
01
六五八
同
九
年
1
一
同
十四年
KOE
同
十
年
1
1m
昭和元年
四九六
五四八
同
B1
四九三
同三年
備考
阿片令施行當初二於テ八中華民國人二對シテ八阿片吸食特許與へサリシ力明治三十七年二至阿片制度基礎確立之
夕ル後中華民國勞働者需要關係上事情不得已モノ二對之每一年ヲ限吸食ヲ特許シ夕リシ力其後中華民國二於テ剛片禁止令
發布セラレタル關係等ヨリ大正八年二至吸食特許ヲ廢止七ルモ既二特許シタル者二限り當分ノ內吸食ヲ尉豫シ居レリ
阿片烟膏販賣高及其價格
脊
版
高
年
次
三十三年八敗賣
敗賣價格（圓）
ヨリ見タル指敷
一等如音
明三十年
101
四二八四
同
三十一年
1
三四三四七七六
同
三十二年
四三五八四
一2七八七

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.81)
同
三十三年
11.12
110
一三八五七三
1002
100
四六七三八六八
同
三十四年
二七八七六
1100
九五五八
一三七四九三
同
三十五年
1〇九一九
九三八九四
二六六九四
二一九一七六三
同
三十六年
九五一四六
同
三十七年
至四10
13
九三二四七
一四七五一九
四三九九〇一
同
三十八年
六六九六五
六
九〇八三
一曰七八六四
四六二七七八六
同
三十九年
2021E
一五五○八九
四九一四七四
同
四十年
九五六三九
111
三
四八五二八九
同
四十一年
三五三九四
一四二六五二
21
同
四十二年
1010
110
同
四十三年
五二九八○九七
同
四十四年
1102
101M11
11
大
正元
八六一四六
一〇五三九四
六〇二七八三七
同
11
年
八五二四七
一六九九六
101
1
五八八六三九九
1
同
111
年
1E'0MO
九七八五三
三六八三八六三
同
四
年
八七六二
九八五九八
同
五
年
九三七六八
101六三
11
六三九○一三三
六
年
八九四五一
六九二四三七六
同
七
年
八五七九九
七二二
同
八
年
七四二九八
七六一九四二
九
年
六三三三四
六五八三一
mm
七七○八三三
十
年
五七三九一
110
三七八三一
11
六七七二六一
9
同
十
年
三三三
1二九六
14
六二八三二七十

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.84)
一
十二年
111m
11
六四〇六六
10
同
十三年
'om
120
11川
一八四'〇三
1
同
十四年
四二八三
四二九九0
111
昭
和元年
100三
110
四七一六五七
11
年
11九
12
111
年
一0三九六〇
同
四
年
三一、九六七
三二九七
1
三七三〇七九六
同
五
年
三六三五九
三六三五九
1
四二六
同
六
年
14
三八九七六七三
同
七
年
11
同
入
年
三三八八
三三八八
11
同
九
年
一九八七九
一九八七九
10
二八四一四
同
十
年
一九二三六
10
備考
本表中明治四十一年以降二等姻膏昭和三年二三等明膏記載十キ八該姻育寶下ヲ廢止之夕ル二由八
數量ノ減少二比ン價格ノ之二伴ハサル八値上ケノ結果二由ル

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.89)
二阿片斷禁ノ促進措置
阿片斷禁完成ヲ確保促進爲改正阿片令精神二遵匕密吸食懸者一掃善處策卜シ本令施行
機二於施行前ノ密吸食懸者二對シ吸食ノ已ムヲ得サ八者二八最終的二吸食ヲ特許シ其ノ他者八
之ヲ矯正處分二附シ而シ改正令新政策ヲ嚴施又八必要ヲ認メ昭和四年十二月十八日新特許及矯
正處分ノ趣旨註一ヲ一般的二發表ス八卜共二保甲機關ヲ通島民各個二之ヲ周知七シメ密吸食
應者調查二著手左表第一號特許出願者二萬五千五百二十七人二對各地方應二於密吸食
事實二關又八行政調查ヲ開始シ同十二月二十三日ヨ檢診二著手尙一方左表第二號矯正治療出
順者二對シ昭和五年一月十五日ヨ矯正ヲ開始七而シ昭和五年三月二十三日第一回ノ檢診ヲ
終了シ左表第三號ノ檢診成績二依一萬二千百五十六人二對シ八之ヲ矯正處分二附シ六千二百一
人二對シラ八吸食禁止ノ戒告ヲ加へ七千百七十人二對シテ八特許ヲ慎重二ス八爲更二總督府二於
昭和五年五月一日ヨ同七月十一日迄八間二再檢診ヲ行匕左表第四號檢診成績二依五千四百八
十五人二對シ吸食ヲ特許シ千三百四十七人二對シラ八之ヲ矯正處分二附シ尙事故檢診不參者二對シ一
特許者檢診際檢診上處分決定結局特許出願者二對左表第五號通五千五百十八人二對一

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.82)
シ八吸食ヲ特許シ一萬三千五百八十四人二對シチ八之ヲ矯正慮分二附シ六千二百九人二對シチ八
12
吸食禁止ノ戒告ヲ加～玆二處分ヲ終了七リ尙引續キ既特許者二對シテモ矯正シ得八者八矯正救羅
シ吸食ノ要十キ二至レル者二對ツラ八廢烟七シムル等整理ノ必要ヲ認メ昭和五年七月九日其趣旨
註二ヲ一般的二發表ス八卜共二各特許者二示達上八月一日ヨ同十一月九日迄間二密吸食者
ノ例二依檢診ヲ行と左表第六號檢診成績二依9三千八百八十四人二對シチ八之ヲ矯正越分二附
シ一千二百五十三人二對シラ八廢烟七シムル指置ヲ執レリ結局新措置ノ結果 前違如ク密吸食
者ヲ網羅シ五千五百十人二對新二吸食ヲ特許之既特許者中五千百三十七人二對シラ八之ヲ矯正又
八廢烟指置ヲ執特許者數八依然漸減狀態二テ而力モ懸膏旨二入夕八絕對數懸者二特許
ヲ認メ其他ノ懸者八悉ク之ヲ矯正救懸スルコトトナリ約二萬ノ絕對數ノ懸者ヲ減少シ著シク斷禁ノ
完成ヲ促進セシムルコトヲ得タリ
第一號表
州廳體性及年齡級別阿片吸食特許出願者
州及造性
三十歲未滿
三十歲以止
四十歲以上
五十歲以上
六十歲以止
七十歲以上
計
四十歲未滿
五十歲未滿
六十歲未滿
七一歲未滿
北{
一五五五
11
七〇八五
41
二
三五九0
五九六
八八三三

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.75)
10
五七八
1MM
1MC
2
三八三九
新
竹
11
20
110
111
1
六〇九
114
一五二九
117
2C
六三
10
CME
1114
六
三六三九
中
10
10
20
101
八1
1101
MO4
六1
四六九〇
1
1
10八
二20
南
IM
1118
M三
MMO
10K
三
九一
二三七八
三
110E
YOK
1川1
高
雄
1
10
11110
x1
OE
一三九五
九三六
一九二
MO
6A
二元
22
10
潮
東
1九
10
1
1
六
三九
1六
1:1
发
m
m1
1
八三
!川
11
花
蓮
11
mO
2
E0
11m
12
m1
11
六
1E
1E
11
六
MO
14
11
八曰七曰
1MO11
計
1x1
<10
一六三
三二六
九1
五一
四三六四
10°M<0
二0K
1
3

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.89)
第二號表
一
4
矯正治療出願者
州應及造性
三十歲未滿
四十歲未滿
三十歲以上
五十歲未滿
四十歲以上
五十歲以上
六十歲未滿
六十歲以上
七十歲未滿
七十歲以上
計
四
1111
*
t{
m
六
八
計
八
第三號表
第一診二依儿吸食特許矯正處分吸食禁止
戒告處分見込數
州應及體性
吸食特許見込數
矯正處分見込數
吸食禁止成告見込數
潮
全明与发
一六五六
010
二四九
四四四
六五四
新
1010
八〇四
一〇〇五
四八
11
一三九

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.83)
中
一一七四
〇三七
四二八
110
五七五
五六
南
一
七九九
四三C
六七七
二四五
四四二
二四四
高
一
11
二六四
三四九
ON
泰
東
一
五
三六
一四
花
卷
一
九三
一三四
四九
三六
二七
湖
一
二六
四
五七一五
九七八五
四八七九
計
一四五五
七七七〇
三一五六
六二〇一
第四號表
第一診要特許者二對スル再診成績
要檢診人員
特許者
矯正者
戒告者
事故不參者
死
亡
計
1二100
一六六三
三六六
114
11100
新
九四九
一六七
11<1
1
*
1四九
11
二六
111
15
*
1'011
140
8
11m
1.0M<
1

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.82)
11mm
2110
MME
1
1
潮
六洲
1
16
花
1元
111
1
114
111
11
11
11
計
八
1m
1104
4140
備考
事故不參者二對シテ八既恃許者檢診ノ際同時二決定セリ
豪北花蓮港以外各州廳要檢診人員卜處分數卜ノ符合セサル八轉出入關係二由ル
第五號表
吸食特許出願者處分
天
田
分
3
摘
要
特
許
正
死
亡
（特許決定月日)
潮
北
八八一三
NC
六月三日
新
竹
四四四八
九五七
11E
七月八日
*
中
四20
1151
五九三
同
南
三八三七
八三九
10
211
六月二十七日
高
二九四
41
同
11
月十八日
花
蓮
三1
九
一九五
六1
同

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.81)
湖
1:1
111
10<
1
七月十四日
計
五五一八
一三五八四
六二〇九
M1K
備考
豪北花蓮港以外各州應ノ出額數卜處分數符合七サル八轉出入關係二由ル
第六號表
特許者檢診成績
王
檢診人員
變更十キモ
吸食特許二
吸食量增加
吸食量減少
廢姻セシメ
附シタルモ
正處分二
計
シタルモノ
シタルモノ
タルモノ
北
七六八七
三五八八
七九八
121m
HMO
七六八七
十一月十七日
億分決定
新
竹
三八六四
六元
三八六四
十
月十五日
同
中
201
二二六六
1000
1m
1.104
101
十
月二十七日
同
潮
南
M4OO
一六九八
MMO
八10
二四九
五八三
十
月十五日
同
22一
Im1
20
四三六
同
東
21
mm
11m
4
11
六
21
十
一月十二日
同
花
110
100
MO
1三
1川
1三元
110
同
1六
1
六
111
1
1m六
十一月十七日
1
計
二三四六四
10MEO
11m
三八公
二三四六四
17
1

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.87)
(#1)
1
8
1警務局長名二於臺日臺南臺測三新聞二發表夕八阿片吸食特許及矯正處分趣一
本年一月阿片令ヲ改正シ從來ノ制度二幾多重要十ル改革ヲ加～夕リ而シチ此機會二於改正
令施行前ノ密吸食者ヲ調査シ已ムヲ得サル者二對シテ八吸食ヲ特許シ其ノ他ノ者八行政處
分二依ヲ矯正シ以テ我力制度ノ裏面二懸レル暗翳ヲ一掃シ名實共二燦然タル行程ヲ辿
斷禁ノ完成ヲ確保促進七ン卜ス按フ二本島阿片制度ノ本旨八制度當初懸者二對シ吸食ヲ
特許シ爾餘ノ者二對シテハ之ヲ斷禁シ特許者ノ死亡廢烟ヲ待ッテ本制度目的ヲ達セントス
ルモノナルコト言ヲ俟タサル所ナリ然ルニ阿片吸食ノ惡習ハ一朝ニシテ其ノ傳播ヲ防止シ得
サルモノアリ本制度確立當初二於ラ約十七萬人ノ懸者ヲ網羅シ吸食ノ特許ヲ爲シタル力其ノ
後離秘裡二懸二陷夕ルモノアリ巳ムヲ得ス明治三十七八年二三萬餘人同四十一年二一
萬餘人ヲ新二特許之今日二及～而シテ特許者八年卜共二漸減現在二在之八僅力二二萬五
千餘人二減少シ全特許數ノ約一割二過キサル狀況二シテ其ノ成績頗八顯著十9然八二阿片
密吸食及密賣買違反事實ヨ曲二現狀ヲ精察ス八二現吸食特許者以外二不勘應者潛在
居八コト八想像スル二難力ラサル狀況ナリ改正阿片令二於テ八特二此點二留意シ舊制度ノ缺

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.85)
陷ヲ補と懸癖傳播ノ防止二間然スル所ナカラシメタリ卽チ阿片ノ吸食八改正令施行前ノ懸者
二限9之ヲ特許シ爾餘ノ者二對スル斷禁ノ精神ヲ闡明シ密吸食違反者二對シテ八罰金ヲ廢シ
自由刑卜十シ科刑效果二依懸辯ノ豫防矯正ヲ期シ尙必要アル場合八行政處分二依八懸癖
矯正ノ方策ヲ樹立シ以ヲ濟美ノ實ヲ舉ケンコトヲ期セッ然ル二改正令施行前既二病的吸食ノ
習ヲ作レル多數ノ糠者二對シ改正令ノ下二嚴刑ヲ以臨ムコトハ人道ノ基礎二於テ不可十
ルノミナラス其ノ全部ヲ刑罰ノ效果ノミ二依リ矯正スルコト能ハス又單ニ矯正處分ノ方法ヲ
執ラントスルモ懸者網羅ニ困難ナルコト言ヲ俟タス按フニ之等密吸食者ハ本制度力斷禁
ノ實ヲ舉クルノ秋卽現特許者ノ絕滅スル時期二至八迄二八刑罰ノ效果二依リ又八行政處分二
依り籠癖ヲ矯正セラレ或八死亡等二因リ絕滅スルモノナルへキモ其ノ自然ノ趨勢二放任シ置
クコトハ我力光輝アル本制度ノ裏面二暗翳ヲ胎スモノニシテ斷シテ不可ナリ改正分力從前
特許者以外同令施行前應者二限吸食特許ヲ認メ夕八精神八實二此事情二善處七ン卜
シタルモノニ外ナラス於玆此際施行前ノ纏者ヲ調査シ吸食ノ已ムヲ得サル者ニ對シテハ吸食
ヲ特許シ應ノ輕キ者又八年齡關係上特許ノ結果斷禁ノ期ヲ遲延セシムル力如キ年少者二對シ
チ八官立醫院二於矯正救龍シ以密吸食應者ノ一掃ヲ期七ントス玆二吸食ノ特許及矯正處
分ヲ行ハントスルニ當リ其ノ趣意ヲ聞明スルモノナリ
1

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.85)
2特許及矯正處分ノ趣旨ヲ鳥民各個二周知七シム八爲保甲機關二對スル示達
8
曩二施行七ラレタル改正阿片分ノ要旨八改正令施行前ノ懸者二シテ已ムヲ得サル者二限り阿一
片ノ吸食ヲ許シ其ノ他一般ノ者二對シテ八絕對二吸食ヲ許ササル精神ヲ瞭力二シ而シテ密吸
食違反者二對シチ八從來ノ還擇刑タル罰金ヲ廢シテ懲役卜爲シ尙必要アル場合八行政處分ヲ
以懸癖ヲ矯正スル等ノ方策二依絕對的二縫癖ノ傳播ヲ防止シ以改正令施行前ノ總者
絕滅ヲ待ッテ本制度ノ目的ヲ達セントスルモノナリ然ル二阿片密吸食及密賣買違反等ノ事
實曰リ曲二現狀ヲ精察スル二現吸食特許者以外二不勘懸者ノ潛在シ居ルコ卜八想像スル二難
力ラサル狀況ナリ既二病的習慣二陷リタル之等多數ノ懸者二對シ改正令ノ悲二嚴刑ヲ以ラ臨
ムコトハ人道ノ基礎二於テ不可ナルハ勿論本制度制定ノ本旨ニモアラサルノミナラス事實上
毛亦刑罰ノ效果ノミ二依之等輝者ノ全部ヲ矯正スルコ卜不可能二シテ又單二矯正處分ノ方
法ヲ執ラントスルモ糠者ノ網羅ニ困難十ルコト言ヲ俟タサル所ナリ去リトテ之等糠者ヲ自然
絕滅二放任シ置クコトハ我力光輝アル本制度ノ裏面二暗翳ヲ貽スモノニシテ斷シテ不可ナリ
此ノ暗翳ヲ一掃シ名實共二燦然タル行程ヲ辿り斷禁ノ實ヲ舉クル八本制度ノ本旨二副フ所以
二シテ改正令力從前ノ特許者以外同分施行前懸者二對之吸食特許ヲ認ム八精神毛亦此事
情二善處セントシタルモノナリ於茲改正令施行ノ機二於テ施行前ノ糠者ヲ調查シ吸食ノ已ム

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.86)
ヲ得サル者二對シテハ吸食ヲ特許シ懸ノ輕キ者又八特許ノ結果斷禁ノ期ヲ遲延セシムル力如
キ年少者二對シテ八各地方ノ官立醫院二於テ矯正治療ヲ施シ救懸セントスル意嚮十リ仍テ各
位八當局ノ意ヲ諒密吸食懸者八此際漏レ十ク吸食特許又矯正治療申請ヲ爲ス八ク一
般二周知七シメラレ度シ而シテ改正令規定七八同令施行前懸者卜八今回ノ調查二依糠者
卜認定之夕八者二限ラ八へク從將來二八絕對二吸食特許ノ途十キ二付特二此點二留意之享
樂的二吸食セン卜ス八出願八絕對二之ヲ排除スル卜共二眞ノ懸者八漏レ十ク申出シメ完全二
網羅ヲ爲シ得へク格段ノ援助ヲ與へラルルコトヲ切望ス
(11)
1警務局長談話卜シテ臺日臺灣臺南三新聞二發表シ夕八既特許者矯正趣旨
阿片斷禁完成確保促進爲曩二阿片令ヲ改正シ更二昨年十二月ヨ密吸食纏者ヲ調查
人道的二合理的二夫々救懸措置ヲ執ッッア特二重キヲ懸者ノ矯正二致ス新政策ヲ確立
シ既特許者二對シテモ亦矯正ヲ及ホスへキ方針八既二聲明ノ如之於茲密吸食者二對スル處分
モ將二一段落ヲ告ケントスル狀況二付來ル八月初旬ヨリ特許者二對スル檢診ヲ開始シ改正
阿片令ノ精神二基キ纏辯ヲ矯正シ得八者二對シテ八矯正救經ヲ施ス意嚮十仍吸食特許者一
2
八本制度ノ精神二遵匕當局ノ指置ヲ諒シ進矯正二心ヲ致シ弊習ノ斷禁二自ラ疆メラレン事一

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.86)
一
22
2警察官二依り既特許者二對シ示達シタル矯正ノ趣旨八（１ト大體同樣十
一
二阿片癮者認定及吸食特許
者認定八府技師監督ノ下二地方衞生技術官之二當各郡（支應警察署管內ヲ一診斷區域卜其
區域內出願者一定期日二郡（支應警察署其他適當場所二十數時間收容置キ左表第一號要
項ノ行政調查ヲ參考卜シラ左表第二號診斷要項二依精密二斷禁症狀ヲ診察總及其程度ヲ認定
シ而シチ糠辯膏旨ニ入リ又ハ不治ノ合併症ヲ有シ矯正ノ效果ヲ保持スルコト能ハサルモノト認メタ
ル者二限リ吸食ヲ特許セリ

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.93)
第一號表
查
1 吸食/動機
2 吸食ノ初期
3 一回/吸食量
4 一日ノ吸食回數
5 吸食、吞食ノ別
6 苦痛ノ起八間ノ時間
7 苦痛/狀態
8 疾病/有無
密吸食又八不正所持前科
密吸食
犯犯
9
有
不正所持
10 密吸食ノ疑アリシ者ナリヤ否ヤ
11 其他參考事項
郡(支)
派出所
印
警察署
-23-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.90)
第二號表
診
錄
調查醫印
No.
姓名
男女
决
定
(特許
一日吸食量复分
蠢者要
職業
年齡
正
本居地
非戀者
寄留地
備考
++ + ± -
現住所
診斷年月日 昭和 年 月
日
I現症
1 榮養狀態
顏貌
皮膚
色
皮下脂肪
2脈搏
3 血 壓
4瞬孔
5反射
6尿
蛋白
糖
7 性慾
IⅡ 禁斷現象
1 消化系統
唾液分泌
欠伸
惡心
便通
2 神钢系統
不快ノ感
不安苦閣
頭痛
眩
睡眠
燕妄證語
虚脫
知覺過敏
神释痛
流漠
步行
語障碍
III
合併症
IV
處置/結果
-24-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.88)
三阿片癮者ノ矯正
阿片應者矯正政策八阿片斷禁確保促進ヲ期ス八改正阿片令二非夕重要十八新政策二シテ昭和五
年之ヲ確立七卽千同年度二於密吸食縫者中一萬三千五百八十四人ヲ矯正處分二附之之ヲ三箇年
間二矯正ス八計畫下二臺北二獨立矯正所（更生院設置ス八卜共二各地方ノ官立醫院二六矯正
科ヲ附置シ全島ヲ通シ四百二十五名ノ設備ヲ以テ其ノ矯正ヲ開始セ
尙密吸食者二對又八矯正處分二次六特許者中矯正可能者三千八百八十四人二對之テモ之ヲ矯正
處分二附七其ノ結果最初ノ矯正期間ヲ更二一箇年延長昭和九年三月ヲ以テ其ノ矯正ヲ完了七
然レ共阿片應者ノ特質上再矯正ヲ要スル者モ勘力ラサル八ク又新二縫二陷ル者モアル八ク阿片懸
者ノ矯正八或八程度之ヲ繼續ス八必要アルヲ以ラ昭和十年度二於テ八臺北更生院ヲ存置收容定員
五十名シ本政策ノ濟美二最善ノ努力ヲ竭シッッアッ
矯正開始以來各州應別及矯正所別二其矯正成績ヲ示七八左ノ如
一
25

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.80)
州廳別矯正成績
1
28
1
正
正
完
了
者
昭和十年
别
死亡其他
受命者
昭和五年昭和六年昭和七年
昭和八年昭和九年昭和十年
言
末現在
北
1110
220
10
1
公
新
竹
二九四0
六六八
2
E
二六
中
三九九0
五六三
五六一
120
2
南
二六元
21E
12
li
1二M01
二八三
六
高
二三九八
1.110
10
二一
一九
東
111
11
2
花
蓮
卷
1111
11
1二1
110
1川
五九
1
八
四一六五
三九六
一五五三七
120
11
備考
本表中各州應矯正受命者數二對之矯正完了死亡其他卜現在數卜不突合八轉出人關係二由ル
二昭和九年末現在八行簡不明及重患等爲實際三矯正不能ノ者十
矯正所別矯正成績
正
完
矯正所別
收容定員
摘
要
昭和五年昭和六年
平昭和七年
昭和八年四
昭和九年昭和十年
計
昭和五年一月十五日矯
臺北更生院
liO
1
二1
MO
六六四九
正開始
松山療養所
同七年七月同

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.84)
im
110
六九
同
九月一日同
新
10
20
11
同
七月十日同
*
六0
11
四七六
九三三
公
同
七月五日同
*
111
四九八
1
六
1九
1011
同
七月廿五日同
院
110
1
同
七月十五日同
高雄醫院
10
112
POK
六五六
川
同
八月十五日同
屏東醫院
110
六
MEM
121
同
九月一日同
東醫院
m
mE
111
11
同
八月一日同
花蓮港醫院
14
元
11
111
同
七月廿八日同
湖院
1川
五九
三
m
111
同
八月一日同
四一六五
二九六
MO
一五五二七
考
本表ノ外昭和五年中矯正出願者三○一名ヲ矯正七
四吸食特許及矯正處分後警察取締ノ改善
イ同片煙膏販賣區域指定
阿片煙膏小賣人ノ不正取引ヲ防止スル為烟膏ノ販賣區域ヲ指定七
口
煙膏小賣帳簿卜購買通帳卜八照合
1
27
煙膏小賣人ノ小賣帳簿卜吸食特許者ノ購買通帳卜ノ照合ヲ勵行不正取引取編徹底ヲ期

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.88)
8
八阿片行政卜司法搜查連絡
一
新二增員シタ八警部五名ヲ各州警務部衞生課二配置保安課（又八刑事課兼務卜シテ阿片行
政卜阿片犯罪ノ搜查トヲ統一專行セシメ警察能率ノ増進ヲ圖レリ
二其他
新二增員之夕八巡查三十五名八阿片密輸入及密吸食取締上樞要地二配置之取編徹底
ヲ期シ尙密輸入ノ取締二付テ八一層稅關卜連絡ヲ保持ス
五阿片癮者矯正ノ效果
昭和三年改正阿片令新政策夕八阿片應者矯正事業八昭和五年確立之元以來一萬七千餘名矯
正受命者二對ス八矯正ノ實施八昭和八年度ヲ以テ一應完了ス八ヲ告ケ夕八二依一八被矯正者ノ矯
正二對スル自覺ヲ鞏固十ラシメ其ノ效果ヲ維持セシム八手段方法卜シテ一八再吸食者二對ス八豫防
對策確立竝二今後二於ケ八矯正政策遂行上其礎的調查必要認昭和九年一月二十二日三
三月二十七日二旦被矯正者總數一萬五千百一人過半數七千七百二十七人二就醫學的及科學的
三調查ヲ實施セル二其ノ成績別表ノ如ク二シテ矯正效果五十パーセン卜強」ナリトス市街地二比シ

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.82)
村落八大體二於テ其ノ效果ヲ保持スル割合良好ナル狀勢二アルヲ以テ全般的二調查スルトキ八尙矯
正效果率ノ良好ナルヲ豫想セラル而シテ再吸食者八隨時又八常時密吸食ヲ爲シ居八樣觀察セラルル
毛矯正前ノ如キ糠二陷シ者八全體ノ約三割卜推察スルヲ得～シ阿片懸者ノ特質上斯程度ノ再吸
食ハ已ムヲ得サルコトニシテ大部分ハ此後警察力ヲ以テ密吸食ヲ抑制シ得ル狀況二シラ矯正後ノ成
績八概ネ良好ナリ
阿片癮者矯正完了者醫學的檢查成績
種
别
亳北州新竹州
中州南州高雄州
檢查人
101
一八五九
再吸食七ス卜認ムル者
1.148
21
公
10
再吸食ノ疑了ル者
1111
1E4
1.020
再吸食者認定七ル者
10
1
11
1m
再吸食者自白七ル者
1
四六六
五七六
二九二
尿ノ化學的檢查成績
北州新竹州中州
臺南州
高雄州
言
1
4
員
11111
1.0m2
1

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.73)
1
廿（吸食ノ願著ナル者）
六1
2
1m
MI0
3
十（吸食ス卜認ムル者
2八三
YBE
三110
1
士（吸食ノ疑ァル者）
一六三
公
一非吸食卜認ムル者）
七八六
五一九
二八九
ME
著色不明者
21
11
C
六洲
檢查セサル者
mm
2
MC1
阿片矯正效果
種
别
臺北州
新竹州臺中州
崇南州
高雄州
11
1
1
矯正ノ効果ヲ完全二保
112E
21
1.CC
MOH
三五六
持入ル者
再吸食シ又八其ノ疑ァ
ル七將來單二醫察取師
211
IEE
120
二委シテ可ナル者
再矯正ヲ要ス儿者
五七三
六四六
矯正困雜二シテ適當十
ル處置ヲ要スル者
1K
1
1E
公

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.87)
三阿片取締概况
前遽如夕阿片制度確立後八阿片懸者卜認メ夕八者二限阿片烟膏ノ吸食ヲ特許一般的二八其
ノ吸食ヲ嚴禁シ而シテ阿片ヲ總督府ノ專賣卜ナシ生產消費ヲ統制シ之力取編八臺灣阿片令同施行
規則規律又八所二シ于警察官憲之力取編實行責二任阿片烟膏八阿片烟膏吸食特許者力專賣機
關ヲ經テ買受クル場合ノ外之ヲ賣買授受スルノ餘地ナカラシメ極力総辯傳播ノ防止ニ努メッッア
而シテ之力取編機關卜シテ中央二總督府衞生課アリテ全島ノ取編ヲ統一監督シ地方二各州衛生課
州下各郡市衛生係各廳及廳下各支廳衞生係ア各管內取編事務管掌地方駐在警察官
第一線二立チ直接取編ノ責ニ任七リ斯クシテ其ノ取編ヲ闘行シ來レルモ尙多少ノ密取引行ハレ特二
對岸中華民國ョリノ密驗入ハ後二例示スル如ク巧妙ヲ極メ到底完全ニ之ヲ防止スルコトヲ得スシヲ
密吸食纏者ヲ作レ八實狀二鑑三前述如ク阿片令ヲ改正特二密吸食自體ノ取編二留意之將來應癖
ノ傳播ヲ防止スル新政策ヲ樹立シ斷禁促進ノ新措置ヲ執之力取編二改善ヲ加へ各地方二於ケル取
編ノ連絡統一ヲ圖八為各州二阿片取編ノ專務警部配置阿片行政卜阿片二關ス八犯罪搜査指揮
監督ヲ事行七シメ尙密吸食及密輪入取編樞要ノ地二阿片取編ノ專務巡査ヲ配置シ又特二一般的密
3
吸食取編ノ對策卜シ密吸食ノ疑ア八者二對強制檢診ヲ行匕醫學的二又八藥物學的二密吸食八事

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.88)
實ヲ確認スルノ方策樹ラ尙密吸食者ノ糧道遮斷方策卜シテ官製烟膏ノ取編ヲ周密二スル爲烟膏
3
ノ販賣區域ヲ指定シ小賣人ノ小寶帳簿卜吸食特許者購買通帳卜ノ照合ヲ勵行シ之力徹底的取編
ノ威力ニ依り密吸食ヲ抑制シ取編二間然スル所ナカラシメタリ尙取編ノ要綱ヲ示セハ左ノ如シ
一阿片癮者八認定及其吸食量指定
本制度當初二於多數ノ者ヲ網羅スル二一々禁斷症狀ヲ作細二親察學術的二ミ應者ヲ認定
スルコトハ其ノ煩ニ堪ヘスソレカ爲本制度ノ確立ヲ遲滯セシムル處アリシノミナラス醫學上ハ嚴正
ナル蘇者二非ラサルモ吸食ノ習慣アルモノ八懸者卜認メ之ヲ網羅シ取締ノ閤內二置ク必要アリシヲ
以う行政調查二依り吸食ノ習慣アルコトヲ確認シ之ヲ基礎卜シタル醫師ノ診斷二依リ穩及其ノ程度
ヲ認定之吸食量ヲ指定七而シ指定吸食量適否八懸癖傳播及不正取引取締二重大十八關係
アルヲ以テ逐テ行政視察二依之ヲ修正セリ最近新措置特許二於八密吸食ノ事實二關スル行政調
查ヲ遂ケ之ヲ參考卜シ密吸食者ヲ一定ノ場所二相當時間收客シ置キ一々禁斷症狀ヲ作細二觀察シ之
ヲ診定セルコト前述ノ如シ新措置二依リ修正シタル現特許者ノ吸食指定量ヲ示セ八左表ノ如シ
阿片烟膏吸食指定量別人員

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.87)
吸食指定量
人
員
1
父未
活
二八〇四
一复以上二及未滿
八六八三
二以上三及未滿
一五八六
三复以上四处未滿
四五四
四以上五反米滿
一七三
五以上一○未滿
三六
1 0
复以上
九
計
二三八四五
二阿片烟膏製造販賣及消費
阿片烟膏八臺灣總督府事賣局二於之ヲ製造地方應ヲ經地方長官指定シ夕八阿片烟膏元賣
捌人及地方長官ョ小賣許可ヲ受ケ夕八阿片烟膏小賣人兩專賣機關二依阿片烟膏吸食特許者
二販賣スルモノ卜ス而シテ右專賣機關相互間及專賣機關卜阿片烟膏吸食特許者間二於ケ八阿片烟
膏ノ賣買授受及吸食特許者烟膏吸食二關シテ八左制限ヲ附不正取引及不正消費防止二努
4
1
33
1阿片烟膏元賣捌人二對ス八制限
1

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.85)
イ阿片烟膏元賞捌人八阿片烟膏小賣人又八其ノ使者夕八コ卜ノ警察官認證ヲ有スル者二
3
テ阿片烟行小賣鑑札ヲ提示スルモノ二非サレハ阿片烟谷ヲ販賣スルコトヲ得ス
1
口阿片烟管元賣捌人八帳簿備～買入及販賣夕八阿片烟穴數量代價竝販賣夕八阿片
烟膏小賣人ノ住所及氏名ヲ其ノ都度記載シ其ノ受拂ヲ明瞭ナラシムルコトヲ要ス
八阿片烟膏元賣捌人八阿片烟ヲ零賣スルコトヲ得ス
二阿片烟膏元賣捌人八許可セラレタル以外ノ場所二於テ阿片烟膏ヲ販賣ス八コトヲ得ス
2阿片烟小貞人二對ス八制限
イ阿片烟管小賣人八阿片烟吸食特許者又八其使者夕ルコ卜警察官認證ヲ有ス八者二
シテ阿片烟管吸食特許鑑札及阿片烟購買通帳ヲ提示スルモ二非サレ八阿片烟ヲ販賣
スルコトヲ得ス
口阿片烟膏小賣人八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二阿片烟ヲ販賣七卜ス八卜キ八其吸食特許鑑
札及購買通帳調查之阿片烟吸食特許者力現二所持ス一キ阿片烟膏卜合七其吸食量
承認アルモノ八承認八範圍內
八阿片烟管小賣人八阿片烟膏ヲ販賣之夕八卜キ八阿片烟膏吸食特許者提示之夕八阿片烟膏
購買通帳二其數量代價年月日竝二自己住所及氏名ヲ記入スルコ卜ヲ要ス

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.91)
二阿片烟膏小賣人八帳簿ヲ備～買入及販賣夕八阿片烟音數量及代價ヲ其都度記載シ阿
片烟膏ノ受拂ヲ明康ナラシムルコトヲ要ス
ホ阿片烟膏小賣人八許可セラレタル以外ノ場所二於ラ阿片烟膏ヲ販賣スルコトヲ得ス
阿片烟膏小賣人八指定區域外吸食特許者二對シテ八特二警察官認證ア八場合ノ外烟膏
ヲ販賣スルコトヲ得ス
3阿片烟膏吸食特許者二對又八制限
持スルコトヲ得ス
口阿片烟膏吸食特許者八阿片烟膏ヲ購買七ン卜ス八卜キ八其小賣人二阿片烟膏吸食特許鑑
札及阿片烟膏購買通帳提示其通帳二阿片烟膏購買數量代價年月日竝二其住
所及氏名ノ記入ヲ受クルコトヲ要ス
八阿片烟膏吸食特許者八日々吸食指定量超工八烟膏ヲ吸食之又八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非
サル者ヲト同席シラ烟膏ヲ吸食スルコトヲ得ス
阿片煙膏吸食特許者八指定區域外ノ小賣人ョリハ特二書察官ノ認證ヲ受クルニアラサレハ一
35
膏ヲ購買スルコトヲ得ス

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.85)
阿片烟膏ノ原料タル生阿片八主卜シテ波斯土耳古及印度等檢入シ居り本島二於テ試驗的二
1
35
罌粟ノ栽培ヲ爲シタルコトアルモ生阿片ノ生産トシラ統計的二記載スヘキモノナシ各年別生阿片
1
ノ輪入及阿片烟膏製造數量ヲ示七八左表如ッ
生阿片輸入及阿片烟膏製造高
生
片
人
年
大
仲華民國
印度阿片
波斯阿片
土耳古阿片
雜種阿片
H
K
K
K
K
K
明治
二十九年
10
11
同
三十年
同
三十一年
一四五九二六
11
10
一四九一九九
一八八七八三
同
三十二年
同
三十三年
P000
1120
同
三十四年
二八四四五
13110
同
三十五年
2<000
八三四公公
同
三十六年
六九六〇0
四六六
同
三十七年
五八八〇0
同
三十八年
九一七九九
一四九四四
一八七三八七
同
三十九年
100110
1
三八九四八
一五七三七三
同
四十年
1011000
20八三
一三八九六

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.82)
同
四十一年
八五五四九
MO
一五七九○七
一五八○八三
同
四十二年
四七九八三
九○七八九
三三七
11
10
同
四十三年
M1100
二六四四五
九六八七
同
四十四年
MI'MOC
MOC
五六九0
10七七
大
正
元
年
100
五九、五四五
一三六五九七
1011
同
11
年
三六七四0
111
101M1
同
1
年
五九九九九
四三七五三
八一五八
川
九七四二三
同
四
年
六四八〇〇
110111
三
100E0
同
五
年
K六100
12
一三五七九七
11001
同
六
年
六八五八C
一
2
一二九五一五
九三二五
同
七
年
一
九九四六六
九一〇三七
同
八
年
三三九九三
四四七九二
五七〇七五
20
一五三
七〇八三
同
九
年
2000
七六四七三
三六七六一
六九九三九
同
十
年
*000
一二九六八
三九四四
二、九八五
同
十
年
MCOO
四六二八六
同
2000
三九
五七八四一
五二六五三
同
M'000
五三五九八
三九八四七
同
十
四年
二二八〇六
昭
和
元
年
PIMO
10211
三六七二
同
11
年
一四二四六
一
1
三六八六
同
111
年
川
一
1
同
四
年
三二七九八
三心八
三三九九八
37
同
五
年
四三公八公八
三七八七
1

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.79)
昭和六
主主由主主
三五七九八
二O
MOM
1
同
七
11'0MO
六
1102E
10
38
同
一八一元
五一尺
MO五八五
1
同
九
三六二五
三六二五
一八九2日
同
十
五四四九
備考
藥用阿片八阿片烟膏卜共二豪灣阿片令二依リ取締リッッアルモ其ノ內容八他ノ羅藥類卜同様ナレ八特二阿片卜シテ說明ヲ省
略ス
三阿片營業取締
阿片事賣機關夕ル阿片烟齊元賣捌人八地方長官之ヲ指定阿片烟小賣人夕ラン卜スル者八地方
長官ノ許可ヲ受ケシムルコトトシ其ノ營業二對シテハ前述ノ如ク制限ヲ附シ而シテ警察官ハ時々營
業場二臨檢シ諸帳簿ヲ查閱シ實狀ヲ視察遠反行爲アレ八假借十ク處罰シ且事情二依營業禁止
停止等嚴重ナル處分ヲ加～不正取引ノ餘地ナカラシムル樣徹底的二取締リッッァリ各年末各營業
者數ヲ示七八左表ノ如シ
阿片烟膏營業者表

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.80)
營
業
特
許
者
胡膏小價一人
年
大
元寶捌
二對シ阿片吸
烟膏小賣
器具製造
器其販賣
吸食所
藥用阿片
計
食特許者
元寶捌
三十年
Mi
一九七九
二五八
王
二二九四
111
同
三十一年
二六九五
六
E
M
同
三十二年
八
10
111
三三三九
同
三十三年
二七六六
八
mm
m
K0
同
三十四年
五九
1川21
王
10
11
110
同
三十五年
六
九九一
110
1111
三
11
1
同
三十六年
六十
八三
2
111
11
m
1.01k
1 
同
三十七年
六八
八五八
九
K
1CE
1川1
九九九
11
同
三十八年
八九九
11川
三
九三
11
1CE
同
三十九年
六九
公七
12
mm
RC
1川
1℃E1
同
四十年
八公九
mM
九C
11
10三九
1三1
同
四十一年
三
公0
MO
mE
21
1川
1.011
同
四十二年
三
八公
m
1川
1.0mm
111
同
四十三年
七三
八四七
ME
K
1川
九七三
114
同
四十四年
11
KC
11
九E七
11m
大
正元年
六八
八一三
mE
五九
11
九三五
10
同
11
年
七九四
11
mm
六1
11
九1四
10m
同
111
年
六九
七六三
1im
mE
三八
11
九七九
101
同
四
年
六八
七三九
11三
mm
K1
111
1
同
五
年
4O1
1m
1二九
2
39
1

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.85)
大
正
六
年
六六
111
六川
2
七九三
2
1
同
七
年
六
六四八
1九
2
心
同
八
年
14
2
同
九
年
六九
1
2
200
22
同
十
年
五七六
1川
111
18
六六三
同
十
1
年
六三
五五四
1m
1川1
2
六四六
同
十
11
年
六1
11
11
八
同
十
111
年
六0
1
11
九
五九四
21
同
年
五〇九
10
11E
九
五元
昭
和元
年
五九
四九三
10
111.
九
五七
六
同
11
年
五八
四六八
10
110
九
同
111
年
四四七
九
1
711
九
1E
六1
同
四
年
五六
四川
八
1
元
九
四九八
同
五
年
12
九
2六1
同
六
年
五六
2
九
12
同
七
年
2
1九
九
四六六
同
八
年
四一八
六
1
九
20
同
九
年
三八三
1
2
E10
同
十
年

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.86)
明膏吸食所八昭和四年限り廢止七り
四阿片密輪入取締
阿片ノ密輪入八密吸食者潜在シ居ル二因リ是等ノ者二供給ノ爲行八ルルモノニシテ主卜シテ中華
民國人二依支那型戎克船テ非隆高雄安平鹿港其ノ他ノ西海岸諸港ヨ密輪入七ラル八狀
況ナリ其ノ手段方法ノ巧妙卜認メラルルモノノ一二ヲ例示セハ船中密藏ノ方法トシテ八船
舫其ノ他一見氣付カレサ八箇所ヲ二重張リトシ其ノ中二隱匿スルモノアリ又舵其ノ他ノ吃水線下ニ
釘ヲ打チ之ニ適當二包裝シタル阿片ヲ吊シ水面上ニ浮揚セサル可ク錘ヲ付シ隱匿スルモノアリ尋常
ナル船內臨檢二テ八到底發見セラレサル有様ナリ陸揚ノ方法トシテ八當該官吏臨檢後他ノ荷物
二混入シ運搬シ又八暗夜刪飯二テ陸揚スルモノアリ或八沖合遠ク投鋪シ居リテ燈火等ノ合闘二依
海岸ヨリ舳版ヲ漕キ付ケ豫メ打合七置キタル方法二依リ授受ヲ爲スモノアリ③陳揚後ハ一先ッ海
岸ノ砂原二埋沒シ置キ又八警察官憲ノ眼ヲ避ケ得ル力如キ者二寄藏七シメ置キ周圍ノ狀況ヲ見計ヒ
巧二運撥版賣スルモノナッ
密輪入取引者八絕對二祕密ヲ死守スルモノノ如ク密輪入ノ檢舉八多ク密賣買檢舉ノ結果二依ルモ一
買受者八絕對二賣渡人ヲ自白七ス住所不明ノ支那人ヨリ買受ケタルモノナリト八彼等ノ常用語ニシ一

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.85)
チ其ノ搜査ハ他ノ犯罪ニ比シ一層困難ヲ感シッッアリ然レトモ之力取編八密吸食取編ノ根本ヲ爲ス
一
42
モノナレハ特ニ力ヲ竭シ警察ト税關ト相協力シテ之ニ當リ居レリ而シテ其ノ取編ノ方法ハ入港ノ
船舶二臨檢スル八勿論容疑ノ船舶及船員ノ行動動靜二注意ヲ拂ヒ密輪入ヲ發見シタルトキ八直二
密輪入者ノ住所氏名年齡積載船舶密輸入方法其他參考事項ヲ總督府二報告ス八卜共二
各地方廳二通報シテ相互ノ協力連絡ヲ保持シ而シテ總督府警務局二於テ八內外ノ情報ヲ蒐集統一シ
ヲ各地方廳ノ取締ヲ援助指導シッッアリ最近九箇年間ノ密輸入檢舉ヲ示セ八左表ノ如シ
阿片密輪入調
年
件
数
種
類
數
推定原產地
摘
要
和
1〇三阿片
六六九二華民國
三生
一五同
回回
111
年
四七九
同
同
E
四
年
四三阿片烟
一六四
同
同
片
三四
E
同
一阿片烟灰
同

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.84)
同
五
年
四三
回片册青
一六三
同
同
七
生同片
11
同
同
六
年
三八
阿片烟膏
四〇六
同
同
二六
生同片
11
同
同
七
年
七一
阿片烟膏
一六八
同
1二六
一三四
同
同
入
年
六二
阿片烟膏
入O
同
三四
生阿
一二二五
同
九
年
三八
一五一
同
同
1111
一五二
同
十
年
1二七
一三九
同
同
片
四六七
同
五阿片密吸食ノ取締
同片制度ノ目的達成八一二密吸食ノ取編二在八ヲ以本取編二八各方面ョ徹底的二全力ヲ傾注
シッッアリ前記各頭ノ取編ハ密吸食ノ糧道ヲ絕タントスルモノニシテ密吸食直接ノ取編トシテハ密
43
吸食ノ前科者及書察的二內查之夕心密吸食容疑者ヲ取編ノ閣內二置キ時々警察官力視察ヲ途ケ審吸

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.83)
食ノ嫌疑顯著十ル者二對シテ八醫學的又八藥物學的二強制檢診ヲ行と密吸食ノ事實ヲ確認シ之ヲ司
4
法處分二附シ尙必要アル場合八矯正處分二依り密吸食ノ根絕ヲ期セリ強制檢診ノ方法卜シテ八阿片
密吸食者ノ尿二對ス八反應認メ之二依り藥物學的二密吸食事實ヲ確認シ或八必要期間更生院
又八醫院二入院ヲ命シ醫學的診斷二依ルモノナリ最近九箇年間密吸食違反者ヲ示セ八左表ノ如
阿片密吸食違反統計
本
人
地
人
中華民國人
計
年
次
男
女
計
女
言
男
言
女
昭和元年
10
12
112
1M
1元
1
一九
1
同
i1
1.002
111
1110
11
ii
181
12
11
一
同
1
年
10
E
15
1.020
12
同
四
年
210
一天
九公八
111
一六
10九2
同
五
年
二八三
21
112
三五七
同
六
年
四六
六1
117
11
五九
六五
六三四
同
七
七公三
11
12
九四八
1110
10K
同
八
年
六百百
INO
14
101
八九
同
九
年
同
十
年

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.89)
四藥類取締概況
本島二於從來麻藥ノ取締八臺灣藥品取締規則及臺灣モル匕ネコ力イン及其鹽類取編規則等個
々ノ法令二依レル力殆ント其ノ不正取引等ノ實例ヲ見サル狀況ナルモ近時寵藥濫用ノ弊風八世界的
二漸ク彌蔓セントスルノ傾向アル二鑑ミ之力惡習ノ浸潤ヲ未然二防止セン力爲其ノ取編ヲ周密二ス
ル必要アリ且壽府阿片條約實施二遺漏十キヲ期スル必要ヨリ從來ノ取締法令ヲ統一シテ昭和四年
十二月麻藥類取編規則ヲ制定セリ其ノ要綱ヲ示セ八左ノ如シ
一瘋藥製造取引及使用醫藥用及學術用二限定而其製造輪出入等八許可主義
探り麻藥營業者間以外取引及使用八醫藥用二在テ八醫師診療二依學術用二在
八地方長官ノ許可二依ルモノトス
二寵藥營業者間ノ取引二對シテ八製造又八輪移入ヨリ輪移出又八消費マラノ中間取引ヲ系統的
二明瞭ナラシムル爲兼藥ヲ製造又八輪移入シタル者二八其ノ容器二品目數量製造又八輪
移入年月日自己住所氏名及番號附七取引際八其品名數量年月日容器
番號及取引先等ノ記帳ヲ命七
1
5
三「コカ」及印度大麻ノ裁培二對シテ八許可主義ヲ探雨シラ本邦ノ需給狀況及國際關係等ョ

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.88)
之力調節ヲ闘ル必要ノ生ス～キコトヲ考慮シ其ノ栽培二對シ總督ノ制限權ヲ規定セッ
四藥中毒者二對八阿片雜者矯正處分卜同樣臺灣總督矯正處分權ヲ規定尙自う癥藥一
ヲ濫用スル者二對スル刑罰モ阿片密吸食者二對スル刑罰卜對應シ之ヲ自由刑トセり
五禁令違反者二對スル刑罰八事情ノ重キモノ二對シテ八總督ノ權限內二於ケル最大限ヲ規定
尙麻藥營業者二對シテ八刑罰ノ外行政處分二依り麻藥取引等ノ制限ヲ規定七
六其ノ他壽府阿片條約ノ規定事項八悉ク包含七

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.88)
臺灣阿片令年
御令第三號
第一條本令二於ラ阿片卜八生阿片阿片烟膏及藥用阿片ヲ謂
第二條阿片ハ之吸食スルコトヲ得ズ但シ本令施行前ノ阿片者ニシテ臺灣總督ョり吸食ヲ特許
七ラレタル者ガ政府ノ賣下二係ル阿片烟膏ヲ吸食スル場合八此ノ限二在ラズ
第三條阿片ノ製造竝二阿片烟膏及藥用阿片ノ賣下八政府二於テ之ヲ行モ卜ス阿片吸食器具八
政府ノ許可ヲ受クルニ非ザレパ之ヲ製造スルコトヲ得ズ
第四條阿片又八阿片吸食器具八之ヲ輪入シ又八輪出スルコトヲ得ズ但シ左ノ各號ノ一二該當スル
場合八此ノ限二在ラズ
一政府ガ阿片ヲ輪入スルトキ
二命令ノ定ムル所二依リ藥用阿片ヲ輪出スルトキ
三臺灣外ニ仕向ケラルル生阿片又八藥用阿片二シラ輪入國政府ノ輪入證明書ヲ有シ且ッ不正使
用ノ虞ナシト認メラルルモノヲ臺灣ニ於テ積換ヲ爲シ又ハ臺灣ヲ通過セシムルトキ
第五條阿片又八阿片吸食器具八臺灣總督ノ許可ヲ受クル二非ザレパ之ヲ賣買シ授受シ所有シ一
47
又八所持スルコトヲ得ズ但シ命令ノ定ムル所二依リ左ノ各號ノ一二該當スル場合八此ノ限二在ラ一

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.84)
x
8
一阿片烟膏元賣捌人又八阿片烟膏小賣人ガ阿片烟膏賣買之授受所有又八所持又八卜一
二阿片吸食器具製造人又八販賣人ガ阿片吸食器具ヲ貞買之授受之所有又八所持ス八卜
三阿片烟膏吸食特許者ガ阿片烟又阿片吸食器具讓受ケ又八之所有之若八所持又八卜キ
四醫師齒科醫師、獸醫師樂州師樂種商又八製藥者力藥用阿片賣買授受所有
又八所持スルトキ
五醫師齒科醫師又八獸醫師處方箋ヲ以藥用阿片ヲ讓受ケ又八之ヲ所有之若八所持ス八卜
六前各號規定二依阿片烟膏樂用阿片又阿片吸食器具ヲ所有若八所持又八場合二於
之ヲ所有シ若八所持スルコト能八ザル二至リタルトキ又ハ之ヲ所有シ若八所持スル者ナキニ
至リタル卜キ本人相續人又八其ノ財産ヲ管理スル者二於テ之ヲ讓渡シ所有シ又八所持ス
ルトキ
第六條阿片烟膏元賣捌人又八阿片烟膏小賣人八阿片烟膏二加工シ又八他物ヲ混和又八コ卜ヲ得ズ

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.87)
第七條阿片烟灰八政府二於買上グル場合ヲ除クノ外之ヲ賣買シ又八授受シ所有シ若八所持
スルコトヲ得ズ但シ阿片烟膏吸食特許者ガ阿片烟膏吸食二因リ生ジタル阿片烟灰ヲ所有シ又八所
持スル場合八此ノ限二在ラズ
第八條阿片烟館ハ之ヲ開設シ父八維持スルコトヲ得ズ
第九條阿片ヲ製造スル目的ヲ以テ罌粟ヲ栽培スルコトヲ得ズ
第十條臺灣總督八阿片烟膏吸食ノ習辯アル者ヲ矯正スル爲必要ナ八處分ヲ爲スコトヲ得
前項規定二依八處分二要ス八費用ノ負擔八命分定ム八所二依八
第十一條臺灣總督八必要ア卜認ム八事項二付第三條第二項許可ヲ受ケ夕八者又八第五條各號
二揭グル者ヲシテ報告ヲ爲サシムルコトヲ得
第十二條臺灣總督八必要ア卜認ムル卜キ八當該官吏ヲシテ第五條各號二揭グ八者製造場店
舖其他場所二立人原料製造品器具機械帳簿書類其他物件ヲ檢查又取編
上必要ナル魔分ヲ爲サシムルコトヲ得
第十三條左ノ各號ノ一二談當ス八者八五年以下八懲役又八五千圓以下ノ罰金二處ス
一同片ヲ襲造ッタ～者
二第四條ノ親定二違反シラ阿片ヲ輪入シ又八輪出シタル者

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.88)
三營利ノ目的ヲ以チ第五條ノ規定二違反シ阿片ヲ貴買シ授受シ所有ッ又八所持シタル者
四第八條ノ規定二違反シタル者
1
五阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非ザル者ヲ誘引シラ阿片ヲ吸食セシメタル者
第十四條阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非ズシテ阿片ヲ吸食シ夕八者八三年以下懲役二處ス
第十五條左各號一二該當又八者八三年以下懲役又八三千圓以下罰金二處又
一第三條第二項規定二違反シタル者
二第四條ノ規定二違反シテ阿片吸食器具ヲ輪入シ又八輪出シタル者
三營利ノ目的以第五條規定二違反シ阿片吸食器具賣買之授受シ所有シ又八所持
シタル者
四第六條ノ規定二違反シタル者
五第九條規定二違反シタル者
第十六條稅關官吏第四條ノ規定二違反シテ阿片又八阿片吸食器具ヲ輪入シ又八其輪入ヲ幫助
夕ル卜キ八七年以下懲役二處ス專賣官吏第四條ノ規定二違反シラ阿片ヲ輸入シ又八其輪入ヲ幫
助シタルトキ亦同ジ
第十七條前四條ノ未途罪八之ヲ罰ス

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.87)
第十八條左各號一二該當ス八者八一年以下懲役又八千圓以下ノ罰金二處ス
一阿片烟膏吸食特許者二シ政府賣下二係八阿片烟膏以外阿片ヲ吸食シ夕八者
二營利目的二出デズシテ第五條規定二違反シ阿片又八阿片吸食器具ヲ賣買之授受
所有シ又八所持シタル者
三第七條ノ規定二違反シタル者
第十九條左各號一二該當ス八者八六月以下懲役又八五百圓以下八罰金二處ス
一第十條規定二依八處分二從八ザ八者
二正當ノ事由十クシテ第十一條ノ規定二依ル報告ヲ怠リ又八盧僞ノ報告ヲ爲シタ八者
三正當ノ事由ナクシテ第十二條ノ規定二依り爲シタル檢査ヲ拒ミ妨ケ若八忌避シ又八尋問二
對シ答辯ヲ爲サズ若八盧僞ノ陳述ヲ爲シ其ノ他當該官吏ノ爲シタル處分二從八ザル者
第二十條前七條罪ヲ犯夕者所有シ又八所持ス八阿片罌菓阿片烟灰又八阿片吸食器具
ニシテ臺灣刑事令ニ於テ依ルコトヲ定メタル刑法第十九條ノ物八之ヲ沒收ス
前項ノ場合二於テ沒收スペキ物件ノ全部又ハ一部ヲ沒收スルコト能八ザルトキ八其ノ價格二相當
スル金額ヲ追微ス
1
5
第二十一條第四條第二號規定二依藥用阿片輪出入八者又八第五條第一號第二號若八第四一

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.81)
號二揭グ八者八其ノ代理人戶主家族同居人雇人其他ノ從業者力其ノ業務二關本令又
S
八本令二基キラ發スル命分二違反シタルトキハ自己ノ指揮ニ出デザルノ故ヲ以テ處罰ヲ免ガルル
コトッ得ズ
第二十二條本令中輪入又八輪出二關ス八規定八移入又八移出二之ヲ準用
附司
本令施行期日八臺灣總督之ヲ定
本令施行前從前ノ規定二依阿片烟吸食所開設ノ特許受ケ夕ルモ八本令施行ノ日ヨリ一年ヲ限
り第八條ノ規定二拘ラズ仍テ阿片烟吸食所ヲ維持スルコトヲ得
前項ノ規定二依阿片烟吸食所ヲ維持スルコトヲ得八者二對シテ八從前臺游阿片令ヲ適用ス

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.90)
臺灣阿片令施行規則
昭和四年
師合第一號
第一章阿片烟膏吸食
第一條從前臺灣阿片令二依阿片烟膏ノ吸食ヲ特許セラレ夕八者八臺灣阿片令第二條ノ規定二
依ッ特許シタルモノトス
第二條阿片烟膏吸食特許者八阿片烟膏吸食特許鑑札二記載七八吸食量ヲ超工八阿片烟膏ヲ吸食入
ルコトヲ得ズ
第三條阿片烟膏吸食特許者八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非ザ八者卜同席シテ阿片烟膏ヲ吸食スルコ卜
ヲ得ズ但シ居住其ノ他巳ムヲ得ザル事由アル場合二於テ家族又八同居者二付テ八此ノ限リ二在ラ
x
第四條阿片烟膏吸食特許者八吸食量三日分
～阿片煙膏ヲ購買又八所持ス八コ卜ヲ得ズ但シ吸食量三日分十五瓦以下ノ者二在テ八其ノ購買
シ得～キ數量二吸食量一日分ヲ加～タル數量ヲ所持スルコトヲ妨ケズ土地ノ狀況其ノ他已ムヲ得
ずル事由ニ因り警察官署ノ承認ヲ得タルトキ八前項ノ規程二拘ラズ購買又八所持スルコトヲ得
第五條阿片煙膏吸食特許者阿片烟膏ヲ購買七ン卜ス～卜キ八其ノ小賣人二阿片烟膏吸食特許鑑札一

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.87)
及阿片烟膏購買通帳提示其通帳二阿片烟膏購買數量代價年月日竝二其住所及氏名
54
ノ記入ヲ受クペシ
1
第六條阿片烟膏吸食特許者八阿片烟膏吸食二因生夕八阿片烟灰及阿片烟膏容器チユ一プ
政府ョリ買上ゲラルル場合ヲ除クノ外警察官吏ノ指示ニ依リ之ヲ處置スペシ
第二章阿片烟膏賣下
第七條阿片烟膏 阿片烟膏元賣捌人三阿片烟小賣人二阿片烟膏小賣人阿片烟吸食特
許者二販賞スルモノトス
第八條阿片烟音元賣捌人八知事又八應長之指定ス
阿片烟膏ノ小賣爲サントスル者八知事又八願長ノ許可フ受クべシ
第九條阿片烟膏元賣捌人又八小賣人他人ヲシテ其ノ業務ヲ補助セシメントスルトキ八所轄警察官
暑ノ承認ヲ受クペシ
第十條阿片烟膏ノ元賣捌人又八小賣人八許可セラレタル以外ノ場所二於ラ營業爲スコトヲ得ズ
第十一條阿片烟膏元賣捌人又八小賣人八政府ノ定云八價格二依現金ヲ以阿片烟ヲ販賣又
ぐ

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.86)
第十二條阿片烟序二就キ臺灣阿片令第五條第六號事由生夕八卜キ八三十日以內二阿片烟膏元
賣捌人ノ所有又八所持シ夕ルモ二付テ八政府二其買戾ヲ請求シ阿片烟膏小賣人又八阿片烟
膏吸食特許者ノ所有又八所持之夕八モノ二付テ八所轄警察官署
所持シタルモノ二付テ八警察官吏
認ヲ受ケ阿片烟膏小賣人ニ之ヲ讓渡スペシ但シ警察官吏ノ承認ヲ受ケ破棄スルモノニ付テハ此
限ニ在ラズ
前項讓渡價格八現行賣下價格二依八
第一項ノ買受ノ請求ヲ受ケタル者八正當ノ理由ナクシテ之ヲ拒ムコトヲ得ズ
第十三條阿片烟膏元賣捌人八阿片烟膏小賣人又八其使者夕八コ卜警察官吏認證ヲ有ス八者
二シラ阿片烟膏小賣許可鑑札ヲ提示スルモノ二非ザレパ阿片烟膏ヲ販賣又八讓渡スルコトヲ得ズ
第十四條阿片烟膏元賣捌人八阿片烟膏ノ封緘ヲ解キラ之ヲ販賣又八讓渡スルコトヲ得ズ
第十五條阿片烟膏元賣捌人八阿片烟膏保管方法ヲ所轄知事又八廳長二屆出べ知事又八應長
必要アリト認ムルトキハ前項保管ノ方法ヲ指示スルコトアルペシ
第十六條同片烟膏元賣捌人八帳簿ヲ備～受拂シ夕八阿片烟停八數量代價竝二販賣又八讓渡シ夕
同片烟膏小賣人ノ住所及氏名ヲ其ノ都度記載スペシ
5
第十七條同片烟膏元賣捌人八前月中二於ケ八阿片烟膏受拂數量及代價每月五日限所轉警察一

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.86)
1
55
第十八條阿片烟膏小賣人八阿片烟膏吸食特許者又八其使者夕八コ卜警察官吏認證ヲ有スル一
者二シ阿片烟膏吸食特許鑑札及阿片烟膏購買通帳ヲ提示スルモノ二非ザレ阿片烟膏ヲ販賣又
八護渡スルコトヲ得ズ
阿片烟膏小實人阿片烟膏吸食特許者二阿片烟膏ヲ販賣又八讓渡七卜ス八卜キ八其吸食特許鑑
札及購買通帳ヲ調查之阿片烟膏吸食特許者力現二所持又べキ阿片烟膏卜合七云第四條第一項二定
乙八所持量ヲ超工八數量阿片烟膏販賣又八讓渡スルコ卜ヲ得ズ但之第四條第二項場合八此
ノ限二在ラズ
第十九條阿片烟膏小賣人阿片烟膏販賣又八讓渡之冬八卜キ八阿片烟膏吸食特許者提示夕八
阿片烟膏購買通帳二其數量代價年月日竝二自己住所及氏名記入べ
阿片烟膏小賣人八各阿片烟膏吸食特許者二就每月初度販賣又八讓渡卜二於之阿片烟膏購買
通帳二記載七八前月中阿片烟膏數量ヲ合計之其通帳二記入べ
第二十條阿片烟音小賣人八帳簿備 受拂夕八阿片烟膏數量及代價其都度記載又べ
第二十一條第十四條第十五條及第十七條規定八阿片烟膏小賣人二之準用

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.91)
第三章藥用阿片ノ賣下
第二十二條藥用阿片 藥用阿片元賣捌人醫師齒科醫師獸醫師藥劑師藥稱商又八製藥
者二販賣スルモノトス
藥用阿片元賣捌人八藥劑師藥稱商又八製藥者二就知事又八應長之ヲ指定又
第二十三條藥用阿片ヲ輪出七ントスル者八左記各號ノ事項ヲ具シ臺衝總督ノ許可ヲ受クペシ許可
ヲ受ケタル後其ノ事項ヲ變更セントスルトキ亦同ジ
一輸出數量
二輸出八目的
三荷受人住所及氏名又八商號
四輸出豫定期日
五出港名
前項許可申請書二八荷受人ガ輪入二付輪入地當該官憲ノ許可ヲ受ケタル者十ルコトノ證明書ヲ
添付スペシ但シ第四號及第五號ノ事項ノ變更二付ラ八此ノ限二在ラズ
一
57
第二十四條藥用阿片八左ノ各號ノ一二該當ス八場合ヲ除クノ外之ヲ賣買シ又八授受スルコトヲ得一

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.90)
x
1
一藥劑師又八藥種商力醫師齒科醫師獸醫師藥劑師藥種商製藥者又八第二十五條二依一
9許可ヲ受ケタル者二供給スルトキ
二藥劑師力醫師齒科醫師又八獸醫帥處方箋二依醫療用卜シ需要者二供給スル卜キ
三醫帥蘭科醫師父八獸醫師力醫療用卜シテ需要者二給供スル卜キ
第二十五條藥用阿片ヲ學術用卜シラ使用セントスル者八所轄知事又八廳長ノ許可ヲ受ク心シ
第二十六條醫師商科醫師獸醫師藥劑師及製藥者八調州製藥又八學術用二供又八外藥
用阿片ヲ使用スルコトヲ得ズ
第二十七條藥用阿片二付臺潛阿片分第五條第六號事由生夕八卜キ八三十日以內二藥用阿片元
賣捌人ノ所有又八所持シタルモノ二付テ八政府二其買戾ヲ請求シ其ノ他ノ者ノ所有又八所持
所有又ハ所持シタルモノヲ除
グル者二之ヲ讓渡スペシ但シ警察官吏ノ承認ヲ受ケ破棄スルモノ二付テハ此ノ限リ二在ラズ
第十二條第二項及第三項規定八前項八場合二之ヲ準用ス
第二十八條知事又八廳長第二十二條第一項二揭グ八者藥用阿片ヲ所有又八所持又八場合二於六必
要アリト認ムルトキハ其ノ保管ノ方法ヲ指示スルコトアルペシ

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.84)
第二十九條第二十二條第一項二揭グ八者八帳簿ヲ備一藥用阿片八受拂二付其數量年月日竝二
受入先及拂出先ノ住所職業及氏名又八商號ヲ其都度記載其日ョ滿十年間之ヲ保存スべ
シ但シ醫師齒科際師又八獸醫師ノ處方箋二依り販賣又八讓渡シタルモノ八此ノ限二在ラズ
前項但書ノ處方箋八調劑シタル者捺印シ其ノ日ョり滿十年間保存スべ
第三十條醫師齒科醫師獸醫師藥劑師製藥者及第二十五條二依許可受ケ夕八者八每年調劑
又八消費シ夕八藥用阿片用途及數量ヲ翌年一月三十一日限所轄知事又八廳長二屆出ッべシ前
項二揭ゲル者被使用者十八場合二於テ八其ノ使用者ヨリ之ガ屆出ヲ爲スペシ
前二項二揭グル者其ノ業務ヲ廢止シ又八臺外二移轉セン卜スル卜キ八第一項期限二拘ラズ其
ノ屈出ヲ爲スペシ
第四章阿片吸食器具八製造及販賣
第三十一條阿片吸食器具ヲ製造又八販賣七ントスル者知事又八應長ノ許可ヲ受クペシ
第三十二條阿片吸食器具製造人八其販賣人又八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非八者二阿片吸食器
具ヲ版賣又八譲渡スルコトヲ得ズ
5
同片吸食器具販賣人八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非廿八者二阿片吸食器具ヲ販賣又八讓渡又八コ卜ヲ

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.86)
待ズ
一
g
第三十三條阿片吸食器具二付臺灣阿片令第五條第六號事由生夕八卜キ八三十日以內二阿片吸一
食器具製造人又八販賣人所有又八所持シタルモノ二付テ八所轉警察官署ノ承認ヲ受ケ同種ノ
營業者二阿片烟膏吸食特許者ノ所有又八所持シ夕八モノ二付テ八警察官吏承認ヲ受ケ阿片吸
食器具販賣人又八阿片烟膏吸食特許者二之ヲ讓渡スべシ但之警察官吏ノ承認ヲ受ケ破藥スルモ
二付テ八此ノ限二在ラズ
第十二條第二項及第三項規定八前項場合二之ヲ準用ス
第三十四條知事又八廳長阿片吸食器具製造人及販賣人力阿片吸食器具ヲ所有又八所持又八場合
二於テ必要アリト認ムパトキハ其ノ保管ノ方法ヲ指示スルコトアルペシ
第三十五條阿片吸食器具製造人及販賣人八帳簿備八製造販賣又八讓渡之夕八阿片吸食器具
ノ種類數量竝二讓受人ノ住所及氏名ヲ其ノ都度記載スべ
第三十六條第十條規定八阿片吸食器具八製造人及販賣人二之ヲ準用ス
第五章雜
顺
第三十七條特許又八許可鑑札ヲ亡失毀損之又八轉居改氏名其八他鑑札二記載之夕八事項二異

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.86)
動ヲ生ジタル卜キ八十日以內二所轄警察官署ヲ經テ本居地所轄ノ知事又八廳長二屆出デ鑑札ノ書
換又八再下付ヲ受クべシ但シ書換ノ場合鑑札ヲ添付シ亡失ノ場合八其ノ事實ヲ疏明スペシ
阿片烟膏吸食特許者他ノ州又八二轉居夕ル卜キ八前項二依八ノ外舊本居地所轄ノ知事又八
長二其ノ旨届出ッペッ
第三十八條前條ノ場合二於六警察官署八鑑札再下付ア八迄假鑑札ヲ下付スルコトアルペシ
第三十九條特許又八許可ノ鑑札ノ必要十キ二至夕八者八十日以內二之ヲ本居地所轄知事又八
長二返納スペシ但シ死亡其ノ他ノ事由ニ因リ本人ヨリ返納スルコト能ハザルトキハ其ノ相續人
又八財産ヲ管理スル者ヨリ之ヲ返納スペシ
第三十九條ノ二阿片烟膏吸食特許者二非ズシテ阿片烟膏吸食ノ習癖ヲ有スル疑アル者二對シテ八
之力檢診ヲ爲シ又八檢診ノ爲必要ナル期間臺海總督府更生院又八醫院ニ入院ヲ命ズルコトアルペ
第四十條臺灣阿片令第十條處分二要ス八費用八特二本人二要シタルモ二付テ八本人ノ負擔卜
シ其ノ他ノ費用ニ付テハ闕庫ノ負擔トス但シ本人ニ於ラ負擔スルノ資力ナシト認ムルトキハ圖庫
ノ負鑽トス
1
第三十九條ノ二ノ規定二依八檢診二要ス八費用八國庫ノ負機卜ス

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.90)
第四十一條第八條第二項及第三十一條二依9許可ヲ受ケントスル者八手數料金三圓ヲ納付スペ
62
第四十二條特許又八許可ノ鑑札ノ書換又八再下付ヲ受ケントスル卜キ八營業者二在リテ八金一圓
ヲ阿片烟膏吸食特許者二在リテ八金五十錢ノ手數料ヲ納付スペシ但シ政府ノ行爲二因鑑札二
記載シタル事項二異動ヲ生ジタルモノナルトキハ此ノ限二在ラズ
第四十三條第二條ノ手數料八收入印紙ヲ以納付ス
第四十四條許可營業者阿片二關ス八犯罪若八業務上不正ノ行爲アリタル卜キ又八營業者卜シテ不
適當卜認メタルトキハ其ノ營業ヲ停止シ又ハ其ノ許可ヲ取消スコトアルペシ
第四十五條知事又八廳長八本令施行二關シ必要十ル規定ヲ設クルコトヲ得
第六章罰
司
第四十六條第二條第五條第十一條第十九條及第二十六條規定二違反夕八者八六月以下
懲役百圓以下罰金拘留又八科料二處ス
第四十七條左ノ各號一二該當スル者八拘留又八科料二處ス
一第三條第六條第十二條第三項第十五條第一項第十六條第十七條第二十條第二
十一條二依準用又八第十五條第一項及第十七條第二十七條第二項及第三十三條第二項二

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.90)
依準用又八第十二條第三項第二十九條第三十條第三十五條第三十七條及第三十九
條ノ規定二違反シタル者
二第十二條第一項第二十七條第一項及第三十三條第一項規定二依警察官署又八警察官吏
ノ承認ヲ受ケザル者
三第十五條第二項第二十一條二依準用又八第十五條第二項第二十八條及第三十四條規
定二依ル指示二從八ザ八者
四正當ノ事由十クシテ第三十九條ノ二ノ規定二依八檢診又八入院命令二從八ザ八者
昭和三年律令第三號臺灣阿片令及本令八昭和四年一月九日ヨリ之ヲ施行ス從前規定二依指定又
八特許七ラレ夕八阿片烟膏取次人阿片烟膏請賣人粉末阿片卸賣人阿片烟吸食器具製造販賣人
又八阿片烟吸食器具請賣人八各本令二依指定又八許可七ラレ夕八阿片烟膏元賣捌人阿片烟膏小
賣人藥用阿片元賣捌人阿片吸食器具製造人又八阿片吸食器具販賣人卜又但從前規定二依
納付シタル特許料八之ヲ選付セズ
臺灣同片令附則第二項ノ規定二依阿片烟吸食所ヲ維持シ得八者二對シテ八從前ノ規定ヲ適用ス

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.89)
一
臺灣總督府阿片癮矯正所規程
(昭和五年)
64
訓令第三號
一
第一條臺灣總督府二阿片懸矯正所ヲ置キ警務局二附屬七シム
第二條阿片矯正所二於テ八臺灣阿片分二依ル阿片懸ノ矯正ヲ掌八
第三條阿片懸矯正所二所長醫員調劑手及事務員置臺灣總督府部內職員以之二充
第四條所長八所務ヲ掌理シ所屬職員ヲ監督ス
第五條醫員調劑手及事務員八所長命受ケ各主務二從事又
第六條阿片矯正所名稱及位置八別二之ヲ定
附則
本令八昭和五年一月十五日ョリ之ヲ實施ス

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.87)
阿片糕矯正手續
(昭和五年)
訓令第四十六號
第一條知事又八廳長阿片穩矯正受命者
下單ヲ年少者及懸輕キ者ヨり順次所轄地域內
者卜稱ス
臺灣總督府更生院
以下單二更
以下稱二醫二入院七シムペシ但シ特二必要アル
院卜稱ス
場合二於テ八警務局長二協議ノ上所轄地域外ノ更生院又八醫院二入院セシムルコトヲ得
第三條乃至第六條規定八前項但書場合二之ヲ準用ス
第二條更生院及醫院者收容定員八別表二依八但矯正所新築二至八迄八院長二於適宜收容
人員ヲ定ムルコトヲ得
第三條更生院長又八醫院長八前二條ノ規定二依入院七シ得べキ人員ヲ入院豫定期日ノ三日以
前二所在地ヲ管轄スル知事又八應長二通報スペシ
第四條知事又八廳長八第一條規定二依入院七シムべキ者住所職業氏名及矯正費負擔力
ノ有無ヲ入院前日迄二當該更生院長又八醫院長二通報スペ
第五條更生院長又八醫院長八羅者ヲ退院七シメタルトキ八其ノ矯正狀況及將來取編上ノ參考事項
ヲ所轄地域內ノ知事又八應長二通報スペシ
65
第六條知事應長及醫院長八每月五日迄二前月中二於八離者ノ入退院狀況ヲ別記第一號樣式二

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.89)
依り警務局長二通報スペシ
1
6
第七錄臺灣阿片分施行規則第四十條規定二依懸者徵收又べキ入院矯正費八藥價食費其
ノ他一切ノ費用ヲ加算シ一日二付金六十錢卜ス但シ特別場合二於テ八院長適宜之ヲ定ムべ
第八條更生院長又八醫院長矯正費徵收ヲ要スルモノアルトキ八別記第二號様式二依前月分
之ヲ通報スペシ
第九條知事又八廳長八穩者二非ズシテ懸癖ノ矯正ヲ出願スル者二對シテ八本分規定ヲ準用ス
(别表）
阿片癮者收容定員
院
名
定
名
定
日
院
名
定
臺北更生院
100
名
院
六屏東醫院
名
11
基隆醫院
图
院
五○E蓮港院
一五
宜關醫院
:O
院
二○東醫院
111
四〇
高
院
四澎湖醫院
(别記)

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.90)
阿片癮者入退院狀況通報
入
院
院
月末現在
月
本
月
計
計
摘
合計
合計
計
記载例
1
醫院長ノ通報二八所轄內外ヲ區別スル要ナシ
事故退院三在リテ八其ノ事由ヲ崩要欄二記入スペシ
第二號樣式
阿片癮矯正費徵收通知
左記通阿片應矯正費徵收相成度
右通知ス
左記
第正期國
微收金額
被矯正者住所氏名
1
5
1

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.83)
1
臺灣癥藥類取締規則
(棚、柳四，年)
令第七十一號
3
一
第一條本令二於麻藥卜八左ノ藥品ヲ謂フ
一「モルヒネ」「デアとチールモルヒネ」「コカィン」及其ノ各鹽類
二粗製「モルヒネ」粗製「コカィン」及「エクゴニン」
三「モルヒネ」誘導體「エクゴニン」誘導體及其ノ各鹽類
四「モルヒネ」「チアセチールモルヒネ」「アセチロヂヒドロコデイノンアセデコンチ分中
二分以上ノ「モルヒネ誘導體父八千分中一分以上ノ「エクゴニン」「エクゴニン」誘導體若
ハ「コカイン」ヲ檢出スル一切ノ製劑
六臺灣總督力麻樂卜指定シ夕ル其ノ他ノ藥品
第三十五條生 可齒科醫師及獸醫師藥業者卜八藥劑師
第二條本令二於之醫業者卜八醫師
ヲ受ケタル醫生ヲ合ム

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.88)
前項醫藥用僕裏藥製劑二使用入八場合八之問藥用卜看倣入
第三條輝藥八醫藥用又八學術用二供スルノ外之ヲ使用スルコトヲ得ズ
第四條麻藥八醫藥用又八學術用二供スルモノ二非ザレパ之ヲ製造シ輪入シ移入シ輪出シ
移出シ賣買シ授受シ所有シ又八所持スルコトヲ得ズ
第五條臺灣二於積換ヲ爲シ又八臺灣ヲ通過セシムル麻藥二シテ其ノ輪出國政府ノ輪出證明書又
八之二準ズべキ證明書農本ヲ當該官憲二提出シタルモノ二付テ八第三章ノ輪入移入輪出移
出及第四章ノ所有所持二關ス八規定八之ヲ適用セズ但シ陸揚スルモノ二付テ八此ノ限二在ラズ
第二章藥ノ製造
第六條麻藥ヲ製造セントスル者八左ノ各號ノ事項ヲ具シ臺灣總督ノ許可ヲ受クペシ其ノ之ヲ變更
セントスルトキ亦同ジ
一品名
二原料八種類
三原料ノ自産買入等ノ別
一
g
四製品ノ販路
1

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.82)
臺灣麻藥類取締規則第七十四
第一章總
第一條本令二於ヲ麻藥卜八左ノ藥品ヲ謂フ
一「モルヒネ」「デアヒチールモルヒネ」「コカィン」及其ノ各鹽類
二粗製「モルヒネ」、粗製コカィン」及「エクゴニン」
三「モルとネ」誘導體「エクゴニン」誘導體及其ノ各鹽類
四「モルヒネ」「ヂアセチールモルヒネ」「アセチロヂヒドロコデイノンアセデコンチ分中
二分以上ノ「モルヒネ誘導體父ハ千分中一分以上ノエクゴニン」「エクゴニン」誘導體若
ハコカイン」ヲ檢出スル一切ノ製劑
六臺灣總督力麻樂卜指定シタル其ノ他ノ藥品
藥種商及製藥者者漢含造
ヲ謂フ

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.90)
前項ノ醫藥用二供ス八製藥製劑二使用ス八場合八之ヲ醫藥用卜看做ス
第三條麻藥八醫藥用又八學術用ニ供スルノ外之ヲ使用スルコトヲ得ズ
第四條麻藥八醫藥用又八學術用二供スルモノ二非ザレパ之ヲ製造シ輪入シ移入シ輪出シ
移出シ、賣買シ授受シ所有シ又八所持スルコトヲ得ズ
第五條臺灣二於積換ヲ爲シ又八臺灣ヲ通過七シム八麻藥二シテ其ノ輪出國政府ノ輪出證明書又
八之二準ズべキ證明書勝本ヲ當該官憲二提出シタルモノ二付テ八第三章ノ輪入移入輪出移
出及第四章ノ所有所持二關ス八規定八之ヲ適用セズ但シ陸揚スルモノ二付テ八此ノ限二在ラズ
第二章麻藥製造
第六條麻藥ヲ製造セントスル者ハ左ノ各號ノ事項ヲ具シ臺灣總督ノ許可ヲ受クペシ其ノ之ヲ變更
セントスルトキホ同ジ
一品名
二原料ノ種類
三原料ノ自產買入等ノ別
1
g
四製品ノ販路

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.89)
五一年間製造豫定數最
1
六製造所所在地
1
七製造用建造物種類製造場所及其圖而
八製造擔當者資格
第七條前條ノ許可ヲ受ケタル者糠藥製造シタルトキハ其ノ容器二左ノ事項ヲ記載スペシ
一第一條第一號乃至第三號及第五號藥品二在六八品名數最製造年月日氏名又八商號
營業所所在地番號
容量ヲ異二スル容器
及「」字
每二各年別順次番號
二第一條第四號及第六號藥品二在ラ八前號二揭グ八記載事項及其藥品二含有七ラ八八藏
藥夕ル主要成分ノ量
第八條第六條ノ許可ヲ受ケタル者八帳簿備八左各號事項ヲ其ノ都度記載スべ
一原料受入使用及現在數量
二製造行程中事故為損失之夕八原料又八麻樂數量
三使用原料二對ス八各寐藥生產數量
四各癥藥販賣其他拂出數量年月日容器番號竝二拂出先住所職業及氏名又商號
五各蘇藥現在數量

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.87)
前項ノ帳簿八記帳ノ日ョリ滿三年間之ヲ保存スペシ
第九條第六條許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八每年一月乃至三月四月乃至六月七月乃至九月十月乃至
十二月各期間每二其期間滿了後二十日以內二各製造所二付當該麻藥二關又八左各號事項
ヲ臺灣總行二屆出ッペシ
一製造夕八麻藥品名及數量
二拂出シタル蘇藥ノ品名及數量
三期間末二現存又八蘇藥品名及數量
四受入及仕込別二其ノ原料種類數量及原料ガ阿片粗製「モルヒネ」コ力」葉又八粗製
「コカイン」ナル場合二於テ八臺灣總督ノ指示スル方法及條件二從と其ノ百分中二檢出七ラル
ル「モルヒネ」又ハ「コカイン」若ハ「エクゴニン」ノ量
五期間末二現存スル原料ノ種類及數量
第三章藥輸入移入輪出移出及
通過積換
第十條蘇藥ヲ入又八移入セン卜ス八者八左ノ各號ノ事項ヲ具シ輪入二付チ八臺潤總督移入二一

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.88)
付う八所轄知事父八長ノ許可ヲ受クシ其ノ之ヲ變更セントスルトキ亦同
一
72
一品名及數量
一
二輪入又八移入ノ目的
三出荷人住所及氏名又八商號
四輪入又八移入ノ期限
五運輸ノ方法
郵便二依八場合三
第十一條前條ノ許可ヲ受ケ麻藥ヲ輪入又八移入シタ八者八其ノ容器二左ノ事項記載スペシ但シ
記載アル事項二付テ八此限二在ラズ
一第一條第一號乃至第三號及第五號樂品二在六八品名數量輪入又八移入年月日住
及「減」字
二第一條第四號及第六號藥品二在八前號二揭グ八記載事項及其藥品二含有七ラ八八廉
藥夕ル主要成分ノ量
第十二條麻藥ヲ輪出又八移出七ン卜入八者八左ノ各號事項ヲ具之輸出二付テ八臺灣總督移出
二付テ八所轄知事又八廳長ノ許可ヲ受クべシ其ノ之ヲ變更セントス八卜キ亦同

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.90)
一品名及數量
二輪出父八移出目的
三荷受人住所及氏名又八商號
四輸出又八移出期限
五運輸ノ方法
六輪出又八移出港名
郵便三依八場合三
在リテ八郵便局名
前項許可申請書二八荷受人ガ輪入又八移入二付輪入地又八移入地當該官憲許可ヲ受ケ夕八者
十八卜ノ證明書ヲ添附スべシ但シ第四號乃至第六號ノ事項八變更及第十四條第一項但書ノ規定
二依リ輪出許可證ガ效力ヲ失ヒタ八爲更二輪出ノ許可ヲ受ケントスルモノニ付テハ此ノ限二在ラ
x
第十三條前條八規程二依輪出許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八其ノ麻藥送荷二輪出許可證ノ膽本ヲ添附ス
前項勝本八輪出許可證卜共二之下付ス
第十四條第十條及第十二條許可證八其輪入移入輸出若八移出完了又八其豫定期日
73
經過ニ因り效力ヲ失フ但シ其ノ一部ノ輪出アリタルトキ八輪出許可證八全部二就キ效力ヲ失フ

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.87)
前項ノ規定二依り效力ヲ失とタル許可證八遲滯ナク其ノ發給官聰二返納スペシ但シ全部ノ輪出ヲ
4
爲サザル場合ニ在リラハ前條ノ膳本ヲ添附スペシ
第十五條第十條又八第十二條八許可ヲ爲ケル者輸人移入輪出又八移出ヲ受ケタル卜キ八十
日以內二其品名數量年月日及許可證番號具輸入又輪出二在テ八臺灣總督移入
又八移出二在リテ八所轄知事又八應長二之ヲ屈出ッペシ
第十六條臺灣二於元積換爲又八臺灣ヲ通過七シムル目的ヲ以テ第十條ノ許可ヲ受ケ輪入ヲ為
シタル贏藥八官設保稅倉庫二之ヲ保管スペシ
前項ノ麻藥八第十二條ノ許可ヲ受ケ輸出スル場合ヲ除クノ外之ヲ庫出スルコトヲ得ズ
臺灣二於積換ヲ爲シ又八臺灣ヲ通過七シムル癥藥八臺灣領域二於テ其性質ヲ變更シ又八當
該官廳ノ許可ヲ受ケズシテ其荷造ノ變更其ノ他ノ操作施スコトヲ得ズ
第十七條第十條及第十二條許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八帳簿備八左各號事項ヲ其八都度記載入心
一各品名每二輪入移入輸出及移出數量年月日竝二容器番號
二輸人移入輸出父八移出先住所職業竝二氏名又八商號
前項ノ帳簿八記帳ノ日ヨリ滿三年間之ヲ保存スべシ

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.87)
第四章藥賣買授受及所有所持
第十八條麻藥八臺灣總督ノ許可ヲ受クル二非ザレパ之ヲ賈買シ授受シ所有シ又八所持スルコ
トヲ得ズ但シ左ノ各號ノ一二該當ス八場合八此ノ限二在ラズ
ヲ受ケタル者二販賣シ讓渡シ又ハ之ヲ所有シ所持スルトキ
二藥劑帥又八醫業者ガ醫藥用二供ス八爲調劑シテ販賣之讓渡シ又八之ヲ所有シ所持スル卜キ
三前號ノ規定二依り醫業者父八藥業者ョリ讓受ケ又八之ヲ所有シ所持スルトキ
四製藥者及第十九條許可ヲ受ケタ八者ガ第六條ノ許可ヲ受ケタ八者又八藥業者ヨ買受ケ
讓受ケ又ハ之ヲ所有シ所持スルトキ
五醫業者藥業者及第六條又八第十九條許可受ケ夕ル者寵藥ヲ所有シ所持ス八場合二於
チ之ヲ所有シ所持スルコト能ハザルニ至リタルトキ又ハ所有シ所持スル者ナキニ至リタ
八卜キ本人相續人若八其ノ財產ヲ管理スル者二於事實發生ノ日ヨ三十日以内二之ヲ藥
業者張 者二護渡シ又八其期闘之ヲ所有シ所持スルトキ
1
75
六第六條ノ許可ヲ受ケタル者醫業者及藥業者業務補助者ガ其業務上之ヲ賣買シ授受

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.88)
又八所持スルトキ
1
26
七運輪業者ガ第六條第十條若八第十二條許可ヲ受夕八者又八藥業者依託二依業務上一
之ヲ授受シ又八所持スルトキ
前項第五號ノ買受ケノ請求ヲ受ケタル者八正當ノ理由ナクシテ之ヲ拒ムコトヲ得ズ
第十九條醫業者又八藥業者二非ズシラ麻藥ヲ學術用二供セン卜ス八者八其ノ品名數量使用
目的場所及期間ヲ具シ所轄知事又八題長ノ許可ヲ受クべ
第二十條第七條又八第十一條ノ糠藥ヲ小分詰換～之ヲ販賣又八讓渡七ン卜ス八者八其ノ容器二左
ノ事項ヲ記載スペシ
一第一條第一號乃至第三號及第五號藥品二在六八品名數量小分詰換年月日住所職
及「寐」字
每二各年別順次番號
二第一條第四號及第六號藥品二在テ八前號二揭グ八記載事項及其藥品二含有七ラ八八輝
藥夕儿主要成分量
第二十一條第六條ノ許可ヲ受ケ夕八者醫業者及藥業者麻藥ヲ所有シ所持ス八卜キ八鎖鑰ヲ施
シタル一定ノ場所ニ之ヲ貯藏スべシ
第二十二條醫業者及樂業者八帳簿備～各麻藥受拂二付左八各號事項ヲ其都度記載又べ

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.87)
一各品名每二受入及拂出數杖年月日竝二零賣二非ザ八場合八其容器番號
二受入又八拂出先住所職業竝二氏名又八商號
前項ノ者第十七條ノ規定二依帳簿ヲ備フべキトキ八本條ノ事項八該帳簿二之ヲ記載スペシ
第一項ノ帳簿八記帳ノ日ョり滿三年間之ヲ保存スペ
第二十三條醫業者藥業者及第十九條許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八每年各麻藥二付左各號中該當事項
ヲ翌年一月三十一日限り所轄知事又八應長二屆出ッべ
一受入拂出及年未現在數量
前項二揚グル者被使用者ナル場合二於テ八其ノ使用者ョリ之ガ屆出ヲ爲スペシ
前二項二揭グル者其ノ業務ヲ廢止シ又八臺灣外二移轉七ン卜スル卜キ八第一項ノ期限二拘ラズ其
ノ屈出ヲ爲スペシ
第五章「コ力」及印度大麻
F
第二十四條「コカ」葉探取ノ目的ヲ以チ「コカ」樹ヲ栽培セントスル者ハ左ノ各號ノ事項ヲ具シ臺灣

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.89)
總督ノ許可ヲ受クペシ其ノ之ヲ變更セントスルトキ亦同ッ
1
78
一裁培場所、面積及其副面分百
1
二植付ノ期間
三「コ力」葉ノ處分方法東
四コ力」葉ノ貯藏及加工二使用スル建造物ノ所在地
前項許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八植付期間滿了後十日以內二其植付場所及面積臺灣總督二屈出
第一項ノ規定ニ依リ「コカ」樹ヲ栽培シタル場合二於テ之ヲ栽培スルコト能ハザルニ至リタルト
キ栽培スル者ナキ二至リタルトキ又八栽培ヲ廢止シタルトキハ本人相績人又八其ノ財産ヲ管
理入ル者二於事實發生ノ日ヨリ六月以內二臺灣總督許可ヲ受ケ之ガ處置ヲ爲スペ
第二十五條前條ノ許可ヲ受ケ夕八者八帳簿ヲ備へ左ノ各號事項ヲ其ノ都度記載スペ
一新規更新植付面積及其廢耕面積
二「コ力葉生產數量及使用讓渡其他拂出別數量竝二其年月日
三「コ力」葉拂出先住所職業竝二氏名又八商號
四「コカ」葉ノ現在數量

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.83)
前項ノ帳簿八記帳ノ日ョリ滿二十年間之ヲ保存スペシ
第二十六條第二十四條八諸可受ケ夕八者八每年コ力葉生產數量使用讓渡其他擁出別
數量及年未現在數量翌年一月三十一日限臺潤總督二屆出八一
第二十七條第十條及第十二條乃至第十七條規定八力」葉及印度大篇二前三條規定八減藥
原料二供ス八目的ヲ以元栽培又ル印度大應之ヲ準用ス
第六章雑
司
第二十八條第六條許可ヲ受ケ夕八者及藥業者其所有シ所持ス八減藥二シテ法令ノ規定二依
販賣シ讓渡シ得ずルニ至リタルモノアルトキハ三十日以內ニ所轄知事又八應長ノ指示ヲ受ケ
之ヲ慮分スペシ但シ警察官吏ノ承認ヲ受ケ破棄スルモノニ付ラハ此ノ限ニ在ラズ
第二十九條本令規定二依り減藥「コ力」葉又八印度大麻ヲ所有シ所持スル者盜難其ノ他事
由二因リ之ヲ亡失シタルトキ八遲滯ナク其ノ事實ヲ所韓知事又八應長二屆出ゾペシ
第三十條醫師減藥ノ中毒者ヲ診斷シ夕ル卜キ八其ノ住所職業氏名年齡及性別ヲ所轄知事又
八長二層出プペシ
1
9
第三十一條臺機總督八減藥ノ中毒ニ昭リタル者ヲ矯正スル爲必要ナル處分ヲ爲スコトアルペシ

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.86)
前項ノ規定二依ル處分二要スル費用八特二本人二要シタルモノ二付テ八本人ノ負擔卜シ其ノ他ノ一
8
費用二付ラ八國庫ノ負擔トス但シ本人二於テ負擔スルノ資力ナシト認ムルトキ八國庫ノ負擔トス一
第三十二條臺灣總督必要アット認ムルトキ八麻藥ノ製造「コ力」樹及印度大麻栽培竝ニ「コカ」
葉及印度大麻ノ探取ニ制限ヲ加フルコトアルペシ
第三十三條臺灣總督必要ア卜認ム八卜キ八當該官吏ヲシ第六條第二十四條第二十七條二
依準用又八第二十四條許可ヲ受ケ夕八者醫業者及樂業者ノ製造所栽培所店鋪其他
場所二立入原料製造品器具機械帳簿書類其他物件ヲ檢查之又八取締上必要十八處
分ヲ爲サシムルコトアルペシ
第三十四條知事又八應長第二十一條場合二於必要ア卜認ム八卜キ八輝樂貯藏方法ヲ指示
スルコトヲ得
第三十五條本令又八他ノ法分ノ規定二違反禁鋼以上刑二處七レ又八業務二關之罰金二處七
ラレ若八不正ノ行爲アリタル者二對シ本令ノ規定二依ル「コ力樹印度大麻ノ栽培又八麻藥ノ製
造賣買授受所有若八所持ヲ禁止スルコトアルべシ
第三十五條ノ二醫生二シテ醫業二藥ヲ依用セントス八者八知事又八廳長ノ許可ヲ受クペシ
第三十五條ノ三知事又八廳長八本令施行二關シ必要十八規定ヲ設ク八コ卜ヲ得

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.88)
第七章罰
司
第三十六條左ノ各號ノ一二談當ス八者八一年以下八懲役又八二百圓以下ノ罰金二處ス
一第四條第六條第十條第十二條第一項及第二十四條第一項規定二違反夕八者
二營利ノ目的ヲ以ラ第三條ノ規定二違反シチ窺藥ヲ他人ノ身體使用シタル者
三營利ノ目的ヲ以第十八條第一項ノ規定二違反シタル者
四第二十七條二依準用ス八第十條第十二條第一項及第二十四條第一項八規定二連反シ夕八
五第三十二條又八第三十五條ノ規定二依八制限又八禁止二違反シタ八者
第三十七條前條ノ未途罪八之ヲ罰ス
第三十八條第三條ノ規定二違反シテ癥藥ヲ自己ノ身體二使用シタル者八六月以下ノ懲役二處ス
第三十九條左各號一二該當ス八者六月以下ノ懲役百國以下罰金拘留又八科料二處ス
一第十三條第一項第十六條第二十四條第二項及第三項八規定二連反夕八者
二第二十七條二依準用又八第十三條第一項第十六條第二十四條第二項及第三項規定二一
逢反ッタん者

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.90)
三第三十一條第一項ノ規定二依八處分二從八ザ八者
一8
四正當ノ事由ナクシラ第三十三條ノ規定二依ル檢査ヲ拒ミ妨ケ若八忌避シ又八尋問二對シ答一
辯ヲ爲サズ若八盧僞ノ陳遠ヲ爲シ其ノ他當該官吏ノ為シタル處分二從ハザル者
第四十條左ノ各號一二該當ス八者八拘留又八科料二處ス
一第七條第八條第九條第十一條第十四條第二項第十五條第十七條第十八條第二
項第二十條乃至第二十三條第二十五條第二十六條及第二十八條乃至第三十條規定二
違反シタル者
二第三十六條第二號及第三十八條八規定二依罰ス八場合ヲ除クノ外第三條ノ規定二違反シ夕
2
三營利ノ目的二出デズシヲ第十八條第一項ノ規定二違反シタル者
四第二十七條二依準用又八第十四條第二項第十五條第十七條第二十五條及第二十六條
ノ規定二違反シタル者
五第三十四條ノ規定二依八指示二從八ザ八者
第四十一條第六條第十條第十二條第二十四條第二十七條二依準用又八第二十四條八規
定二依許可ヲ受ケ夕八者醫業者又八藥業者八其代理人戶主家族同居人雇人其

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.85)
他ノ從業者ガ其ノ業務二關シ本分二違反シタルトキ八自己ノ指揮二出デザルノ故ヲ以ラ處罰ヲ免
ルルコトヲ得ズ
第四十二條法人代表者父八其ノ雇人其ノ他從業者法人ノ業務二關シ本令二違反シタル卜キ八
本令二規定ス八罰則ヲ法人ノ代表者二適用ス
附則
本令八昭和四年十二月二十五日ヨリ之ヲ施行ス
大正九年府令第百八十四號臺灣モルヒネコカイン及其ノ鹽類取編規則八本分施行ノ日ヨリ之ヲ廢
本合施行前從前ノ規定二依籠藥又八「コカ」葉ノ輸入移入輪出又八移出二付許可セラレタル者
八本令ノ規定二依り許可セラレタル者卜看做ス從前ノ規定二依り輝藥ノ製造ヲ許可セラレタル者
又八本令施行前「コカ」葉探取ノ目的ヲ以テ「コカ」樹ヲ裁培シタル者ニシラ本令龍行ノ日ョリ三十日
以內二第六條又八第二十四條所定ノ事項ヲ臺灣總督二屆出デタ八者亦同
-£8-

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Translation.
GOVERNMENT GENERAL OF TAIWAN
Kan Gai No. 850.
Taihoku, December 13, 1937.
The Honorable
Gerald Warner,
American Consul,
Taihoku.
Sir:
In reply to your communication No. 44 dated
November 13, 1937 requesting, under instruction
from your Government, to be supplied with five
copies each of Ordinance No. 5 of December 5,
1936 and Ordinance No. 3 of 1928, I have the honor
to state that Ordinance No. 3 of 1928 is contained
in the pamphlet entitled "Opium System of Taiwan",
recently supplied to you, to which you are referred.
Ordinance No. 5 of December 5, 1936, which
you desire, amends Articles 13 and 15 of the Taiwan
Opium Regulations and supplemental regulations
thereof as follows:
Item 5 of Article 13 is amended as follows:
5. Any person who has coerced or induced
another person, who is not a licensed
opium smoker, to smoke opium, or who has
coerced or induced another person to
buy, own, or possess opium in viola-
tion of the provisions of Article 5.
The following item is added to Article 15:
6. Any person who has assisted another
person, who is not a licensed opium
smoker, to smoke opium, or who has
assisted another person to buy, own,
or posses opium in violation of the
provisions

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
provisions of Article 5.
Supplementary Provision.
The date of enforcement of this Ordinance
shall be determined by the Governor General of Taiwan.
(This Ordinance took effect on April 22, 1937
under Taiwan Government General Order No. 9 of
February 20, 1937)
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
JIRO MORIOKA
Director General of Administration
of the Government General of Taiwan.
(SEAL)

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
January
24 198
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/58
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
894A.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretery of the Treasury and,
11
4 NARCOTICS
in connection with the provisions of the Marihuana
Tax Act of 1937, encloses herewith, in duplicate, for
the information of the Commissioner of Narcotics, a
copy of an unnumbered despatch dated December 3, 1937,
from the American Consulate at Taihoku, together with
copies in the Japanese text of the publication entitled
"Opium System of Taiwan", 1936 edition, which contains
60
provisions governing the control of the traffic in
gannabie mative. A rough translation of the marked
portions on pages 68, 71, 72, 73, 74, 77, 78 and 79 of
this publication indicates that these portions refer
to articles 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 24, 25, 26
and 37 of Ordinance No. 71 of the Taiwan Govermment
General,
4

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
General, a copy of whioh, in translation, was forwarded
to the Treasury Department with this Department's letter
of Maroh 15, 1930.
It will be noted that the Consulate reports that a
covering letter of the Direotor General of Administration,
tranamitting the enclosed pamphlets contained the observa-
tion that "since thereis no demand in Taiwan for Indian
hemp and its preparations, there is acoordingly no importa-
tion thereof into Taiwan".
Enclosures:
From Consulate, Taihoku,
December 3, 1937, with
enolosure, in duplioate.
JAN 24 1080
A true co
the signe
nal
gam
1/24/38
sa
FE: GAM: AT

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.97)
(This trauslation is not
beeing sent to the Freasury Dept.)
jamrbck
f.24,1938
Translation of Marked Portions of Publication
entitled "Opium System of Taiwan".
Page 68 Prohibition of Indian Hemp (Cannabis Sativa)
Artiole 10. page 71
A person desiring to import narcotics from a foreign
country or from Japan shall furnish the particulars
enumerated in the following captions and shall obtain a
permit in the case of imports from abroad from the
Governor General of Taiwan and in case of imports from
Japan from the competent provincial governor. The same
applies where a change is made.
Article 12. page 72
This artiole reads the same as Article 10, page 71,
but relates to exports.
Article 13, page 73
A person who has received an export permit in
accordance with the provisions of the foregoing article
shall attach a certified copy of such permit to the
shipment of narcotios.
The certified copy will Be furnished (by the
Government) to go with the export permit.
Artiole 14,

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.96)
-2
Artiole l4. page 73
The permits mentioned in Articles 10 and 13
shall become invalid consequent upon the completion
of the import or export or by the expiry of the
prescribed date, eto.(proviso relates to partial
shipments)
Article l5. page 74
This article relates to notification (to Govern-
ment authorities) in regard to completion of shipments.
Artiele 16. page 74
This article relates to custody in bonded warehouses
of nerootics traneshipped through Taiwan.
Artiole 17, page 74
This article relates to obligations of persons
receiving permits to keep records thereof.
Artigle 34. page 77
This artiole indioates permits required for growing
of cooa trees.
Artigle 25, page 78
This article indicates records to be kept by
persons receiving permits to plant cooa trees.
Artiole 26,

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.95)
-3
Astlele 36. page 79
This article relates to annual reports required
from persons cultivating coca trees.
Artiole 27. page 79
This article applies the same rules to persons
cultivating Indian hemp.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
7 198
January
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/59
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
89
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
4A.
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
1n accordance with the provisions of the Narcotic
4
Drugs Import and Export Act, as amended, encloses
NARCOTICS
herewith, for the information of the Commissioner of
Narootics, a copy of an unnumbered despatch dated
December 16, 1937, from the American Consulate at
Taihoku, together with a copy of a letter dated
S
December 13, 1937, from the Director General of Ad-
9
ministration of the Government General of Taiwan in
regard to Ordinance No. 5 of December 5, 1936, which
amends the Taiwan Opium Ordinanoe governing the traffio
in nareotic drugs in Taiwan.
A copy of the Taiwan Opium Ordinance, as published
in League of Nations dooument No. O.C. 1l07, dated
M
Deaember

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
Doeoember l929, was forwarded to the Treasury Depart-
ment with this Department's letter of February 12,
1930.
The pamphlet entitled "Opium System of Taiwan",
referred to in the Consulate's despatoh, was forwarded
to the Treasury Department with this Department's letter
of January 24, 1938. It 1s regretted that an English
translation of this pamphlet is not available.
Enclosure:
From Consulate, Taihoku,
December 16, 1937, with
enolosure.
c0m
CR
JAN 27 1938.PM
A 
the signed origi-
Aleus
na
1/27/38
FE
FE:GAM:AT
gam

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
F
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japen, March 17, 1939.
SUBJECT:
Narcotic Smuggling and Smugglers
in Taiwan in 1938.
1—1055 G P
00
94A.114 NAR00T10S/
THE HONQRABLE
copin HT
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
39 AR
SIR:
I have the honor to report that upon request
the Taiwan Government General very generously
furnished this offi ce wi th information conceming
illicit drug traffic in Taiwan, together with a
list of those persons seized during 1938 in c∞nnection
16
wi th traffic in narcoti cs. In requesting this
information I explained that the information furnished
would be used in oooperating in combatting this
menace, for instance in one way in enabling a check
up in case the person should apply for a visa for
travel to American territory, or in enabling the
proper local authorities to be informed so that
they might investigate the man's activities should
he come to the notice of a consular office.
In furnishing the enclosed list of persons
connected with smuggling incidents in 1938, the
Government General observed that "at present there
APR 25 1939
is no widespread narcotio smuggling and few persons
engaged in illicit traffio in Taiwan. Hitherto
although

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
al though smugglers have brought in from China
such articles as crude opium and opium for smoking,
since the outbreak of the Incident and the cessation
of junk traffic, this kind of illicit smuggling
has nearly ceased!
Details fumished in connection with each
case are supplied in order that the Department may
incorporate them wi th other information which may
be on hand, into lookout noti ces if these ere sent
out to various offices in this area.
Respectfully yours,
kold Vane
Gerald Warner
Ameri can Consul.
Enclosure:
List of narcotic smuggling
cases in Taiwan in 1938.
GW/tkh
File No. 8ll.4
In quintuplicate to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
List of narootic smugglers uncovered in l938 in
Taiwan, Japan. List furnished by Taihoku Police
authorities through Department of Foreign Affairs,
Taiwan Government General on March 10, 1938 (all
listed are Formosan Chinese).
Translation.
1. (1) Name; Alias; nd Age: To Gin-bun. (No alias).
Age 34.
Present address and occupation: No. 174
Nishin-cho 2-chome, Taihoku. Dealer in
marine products.
(2) Description (height, weight, distingushing
marks): Unknown (runaway).
(3) Nature of previous convictions: First
offense: robbery, second offense: robbery.
(4) Field of operations: From Amoy, China to
Keelung.
(5) Quantity kind and value of narcotics involved
and date of smuggling: Crude opium. Yen 548.94.
November 21, 1938.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 9, 1938 the
Chief of Keelung Custons entered charges
with the Chief Procurator of the Taihoku
Local Court against the defendant.
2. (1) Name; Alias; and Age: Yo Yo-sei (No alias)
Age 27.
Present address and ocoupation: No. 78
Ohashi-cho 3-chome, Taihoku. Peanut-peddler.
(2) Description (height, weight, distingushing
marks): Height: about 5 feet 2 inches
weight: about l05 1bs.
(3) Nature of previous conviotions: Violation
of Taiwan Police regulations (something
like gambling). Punished with fine of
12 yen.
(4) Field of operations: From Amoy, China via
Keelung to Taihoku.
(5) Quantity kind and value of narcotios
involved and date of amuggling. Crude opium (a146.74,
October 19,1938(b)Y80, N8Vember 21, 1938.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 9, 1938
the Chief Keelung Customs entered charges
with the Chief Procurator of the Taihoku
Local Court against the defendant.
3.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
5. (1) Name, Alias, and Age: Ban Shi-chi (No
alias) (female) age 35.
Present address and occupation: No. 153
Nishin-cho, Taihoku.Tailoress.
(2) Description (height, weight, and distingushing
marks): Hei ght about 4 feet 9 inches.
Weight about 80 1bs.
(3) Nature of previous conviotions: None.
(4) Field of operations: From Amoy, China via
Keelung to Tai hoku.
(5) Quantity kind and value of narcotics
involved and date of smuggling: Smoking
opium.
Yen 50. On August 23, 1938.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 9, 1938
the Chief Keelung Customs brought charges
wi th the Chief Procurator of the Taihoku
Local Court against the defendant.
4. (1) Name, Alias, and Age: Chai Shin-gen (No
alias) birth: July 9, 1899.
Present address and occupati on: No. 35
Takasago-cho 2-chome, Keelung. Fishing.
(2) Description (height, weight, and distingushing
marks): Height about 5 feet 3 inches; round,
white face; plump build. Special features:
2 gold teeth in uppers.
(3) Nature of previous convictions: First
offense: Violation of opium and passport
regulations. Second offense: Violation of
passport regulations. Third offense:
Violation of narcotio control regulations.
(4) Field of operations: Dairen, Kwantung
Leased Territory, via Kobe to Keelung.
(5) Quantity, kind and value of narcotics
involved and date of smuggling: Smoking
opium (a) Yen 36 November 9, 1938 (b)
Yen 150 November 22, 1938.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 24, 1938
the defendant was handed over by the
Keelung Police Station to the Proourator's
Office of the Taihoku Local Court.
5. (1) Name, Alias, and Age: Sai Kin-to, (No alias)
born April 7, 1903.
Present

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Present address and occupation: No. 7
Futaba-cho, Keelung.
Fish-peddler.
(2) Description: (height, weight, and
distingushing marks): Hei ght about 5 feet
and 2 inches. Angular face, light
black in color. Distingushing mark:
Vaccination marks on face.
(3) Nature of previous convictions: First
offense: gambling, second, third, and
fourth: Violation of Opium Regulations,
and fifth: gambling.
(4) Field of operations: Dairen, Kwantung
Leased Territory, via Kobe to Keelung.
(5) Quantity kind and value of narcotics involved
and date of smuggling: Smoking opium.
(c) Yen 24 November 9, 1938.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 24, 1958
the defendant was handed over by the
Keelung Police Stati on to the Procurator's
Offi ce of the Tai hoku Local Court.
6. (1) Name, Alias, and Age: Rai Kon (No alias).
Born on August 25, 1909.
Present address and occupation: No. 31
Takasago-cho 1-chome, Keelung.
(2) Description (height, weight, and distingushing
marks): Height about 5 feet and 6 inches;
head: egg-shaped with long hair.
(3) Nature of previous convictions: None.
(5) Quantity, kind and value of narcotics
involved and date of smuggling: Smoking
opium. (a) Yen9November 9, 1938 (b)
Yen 150; November 22, 1938 (c) Yen 34;
December 9, 1938.
(4) Field of operation: Dairen, Kwantung Leased
Terri tory via Kobe to Keelung.
(6) Disposition of case: On December 24, 1938
the defendant was handed over by the
Keelung Police Station to the Proourator's
Office of the Tai hoku Local Court.
7. (1) Name, Alias, and Age: Chin Shin-i (No alias),
age about 23.
Present

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
Present address and occupation: No. (?)
in rear of Motomachi Station, Kobe-ku,
Kobe. Fireman off the Usuri Maru.
(2) Features (height, weight, and distingushing
marks): Unknown.
(3) Nature of previous convictions: Unknown.
(4) Field of operations: Dai ren, Kwantung Leased
Territory to Kobe.
(5) Quantity, kind and value of narcotics involved
and date of smuggling: Smoking opium.
(a) Yen 36 (b) Yen 150 (o) Yen 24. (Dates
not given)
(6) Disposition of case: Now working on the
Dairen run and investigation not yet made.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.94)
April 21 1939
In reply refer to
FE 894A.114 Narcotics/62
894A.114 NARCOTICS
Attention: Customs Agency Service
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury, and
encloses herewith, in duplicate, for the information
of the Treasury Department, a copy of despatch no. 60,
dated March 17, 1939, from the American Consulate at
Taihoku, with its enclosure, in regard to the illicit
3
traffic in narootic drugs in Taiwan during 1938.
Enclosure:
From Consulate, Taihoku,
no. 60, Maroh 17, 1939
A true copy of
with enclosure, in duplicate.
CRV
the
50m
na
APR 21 1936
Gany
gam
FE:AT
4/19/39
