894A.50 Formosa. Taiwan, Economic Matters., April 24, 1944 - June 22, 1944 (File 1433)
ID: 894A.50-1433   Pages: 2   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.50-formosa-taiwan-economic-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : TS - Mr. Blakeslee
FROM : LA - Mr. Moffat
SUBJECT: TAIWAN ECONOMIC QUESTIONS: CURRENCY

DATE: April 24, 1944

Mr. Vincent feels very strongly that the State Department should not declare as a matter of policy at this time that the military government should control the rate of exchange between the Formosan currency and Chinese currency in such a manner as to promote trade. (i.e., quite frequent shifts as Chinese inflation increases.) I would suggest that it would be entirely proper in this paper to indicate that such control may be found desirable but to recommend only that the military government, in connection with exchange rates which may be established in the Formosan and Chinese currency, shall consult with the State Department as well as the Treasury.

His second point is that the paper requires "redemption" of both Japanese currency in the island and any military currency. I do not think that the State Department should pass on that question either at this time, and I did not think that the paper so intended. When there is a stable Chinese currency it should circulate in Formosa and other currency be withdrawn. I think the recommendation should be that the military government should under these conditions, if still in power, facilitate such circulation of Chinese money and withdrawal of other currency. The question of recourse to assets of the Bank of Taiwan or to the Japanese government can be worked out at a later date.

If I am not present at the meeting when this is discussed, will you be kind enough to offer these suggestions on my behalf?

LA: ALM: meb

This Document Must Be Returned to: CC/R
Control
Files

CS/M
894A.50/4-2444

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
DATE: June 22, 1944

From: LA - Mr. Moffat
To: EUR - Mr. Labouisse

Subject:

The attached papers relating to economic matters affecting Japan may be of interest to you. They come from the old Division of Defense Materials files and are somewhat out of date.

When they have served your purpose will you send them on to the central files.

Henry R. Labouisse, Jr.

EUR: HRL: EHS
