894A.248 Equipment And Supplies., Formosa. Taiwan, Aircraft. Accidents.Landing Fields. Stations., June 27, 1935 (File 869)
ID: 894A.248-869   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.248-equipment-and-supplies-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.94)
DUPLICATE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Taihoku, Taiwan, Japan, June 27, 1935.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1935 AUG 6 AM 10 27

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

For Distribution Check
Grade For
To field In U.S.A. ONI
M I D

894A.248/1

FILED
AUG 14 1935

894A.248/1

I have the honor to transmit herewith, as of
probable interest to the Embassy, translations of
three newspaper articles from local papers regard-
ing the selection of a site on the outskirts of Kagi,
Taiwan, for the construction of an army aviation
field on which there are to be erected hangers,
workshops, barracks, et cetera, to house an avi-
ation regiment.

In view of the large number of notices which
have been appearing recently in the local press
respecting the selection of a site for the proposed
aviation field, it would appear reasonable to assume
that the newspaper articles enclosed herewith are
substantially correct. At this time it is not
believed politic for the Consulate to initiate any
inquiries with a view to obtaining further infor-
mation in the premises.

Respectfully yours,

Edward S. Maney,
American Consul.

Enclosures:
Translations of three
press notices.

824.8/820
ESM/tkh

Copy to Department,
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

TREATY DIVISION
AUG 13 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
SITE FOR AVIATION REGIMENT DECIDED - SUBURB OF KAGI KAG BEEN GROSEN - LEVELING OF GROUND TO BE STARTED FROM AUGUST - TO BE COMPLETED IN 1935.

The Taiwan Military authorities at first selected Kagi, Taichu, Tainan and Heito as a probable site for new aviation regiment in Taiwan. The military authorities have been negotiating with the Taiwan Government General and other government authorities concerned regarding purchase of required land. Now all matters regarding purchase of privately owned land and sale of government owned land have been settled, and the Tainan Province has decided to contribute Yen 800,000 to the Taiwan Army as an expense for leveling the ground. A party of military officers and experts have recently arrived from Tokyo for inspection of sites selected in Kagi, Taichu, Tainan, Heito and Kato. This party submitted reports to Tokyo, and as a result of conferences of military authorities in Tokyo, it has been decided to establish the aviation regiment in the region extending from the west of the city of Kagi to Taposho. This decision was telegraphed to the Taiwan Army on the 25th. The Taiwan Army therefore issued the statement given elsewhere. Final decision now awaits Imperial sanction.

Leveling of ground will be started from August this year, in 1937 all buildings, such as barracks, aerodromes, appurtenances, etc. as well as aviation ground and bombing ground will be completed. In 1938 personnel and equipment will be organized or completed, and the bombing aviation regiment will thus be completed. This regiment will then begin activities in the first line of national defense in the southern part of the Empire. Hospitals, gendarmerie station, etc. will be established, but their sites are not yet decided. No decision has yet been made regarding to side of headquarters of aviation corps and anti-air craft gun regiment. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo June 26, 1935)

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
STATEMENT ISSUED BY THE TAIWAN ARMY - INTEREST
SHOWN BY OFFICIALS AND PEOPLE APPRECIATED.

When the question of establishing a new aviation
regiment in Taiwan has come to the front officials
and people in all parts of Taiwan have shown interest
and enthusiasm and petitioned the Army to obtain
establishment of the aviation regiment in their
districts. They have been so enthusiastic as not
to hesitate to bear expenses of land and leveling
of land. The army greatly appreciates the
enthusiasm shown. The army investigated various
districts from the viewpoint of strategy, climate,
topography, communications, hygene, etc., and after
conferences with Tokyo and the Taiwan Government
General has informally decided Kagi as the site
for the aviation regiment. Sincere appreciation
of the unusual interest shown by the Government
General, officials and people, is hereby expressed,
and at the same time it is regretted that the
enthusiasm of officials and people of the districts
not selected for the site could not be reciprocated.
However, the officials and people are requested
to extend assistance and good wishes to the aviation
regiment with the same enthusiasm as shown in the
past, toward perfection of the national defense, as
the site has thus been informally decided.
(Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo June 26, 1935)

Officials and people of Kagi will celebrate
the selection of Kagi as the site for the aviation
ground on 26th, and also at some other date on a
more elaborate scale. The committee for the
League for Obtaining Establishment of the Aviation
Regiment will pay homage to the Kagi Shrine on
27th to express thanks. (Taiwan Nichi Nichi Shimpo
June 26, 1935)
