894A.801 Navigation. Statistics., Formosa. Taiwan, Laws And Regulations. Navigation Of Home Waters. Coastwise Trade., February 5, 1936 - September 10, 1936 (File 925)
ID: 894A.801-925   Pages: 41   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894a.801-navigation-statistics-formosa-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
61852
DIVIGION OF FORCH
13 1936
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
WE
MAR 5 - 1936
gatnst Entering
Anchoring in or near the Pescadores
Island.
NCT
COPIES SENT TO
zmus
O.N.I. AND
Yen
Ng
For Distribution-Check
THE HONORABLE
10 fie1l
Grade
In U S A.
TIHE SECRETARY OF STATE,
For
2
WASHINGTON. MID Po
ONT
Comm muse- Not for pullicatio...
USIR:
W11
I have the honor to enolose herewith a trans-
8
6
latton of a communication dated February 4, 1936,
4A.801/1
addressed to this Consulate by the Acting Director
89wa.
that warning be given to all American shipping
eR
panies operating in the Far East against entering
C/C
Mako Naval Port in the Pescadores Islands.
OP SIA
It is noted that reference is made in the
A/
above-oited letter to the case of the Danish merohant
APR 80 1936.
FILED
tessel of January 6, 1936. From information obtained
the points in this case are as follows:
While proceeding from Manila to Dairen in
ballast, the Danish steamship NICOLINE MAKRSK, 4,194
H
gross tons, of the Maersk Line, Copenhagen, sought
394a23
haven from a strong northeast monsoon by anohoring
to the south of a mall island of the Pescadores
group at 9 a.m., January 6, 1936. According to
the ship's logbook, this anchorage was at a point
23° 20'1/3 N. Latitude, 119° 29'3/4 E. Longitude,
867.73944
and
F/F
G

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
8
and further identified as Steeple Island South true,
and the eastern point of So To Island North 57º East
true. This anchorage on British Admiralty chart
No. 1961 is roughly 3/4 mile south of Hatto To Island
of the Pescadores group, and about 9 miles south of
the nearest limits of the Mako naval base as indicated
on the British chart and on the Japanese Navigation
Chart No. 855, both of which oharts are revised to
1935. The master contended that he had already
flooded his forward hatoh with sea water in an en-
deavor to keep his ship on an even keel, but that the
force of the wind and water was so strong it was
absolutely necessary for him to seek the nearest
shelter. He further oontended that in the China
Sea Pilot, no mention is made of any prohibition
against anchoring near Hatto To Island, but that on
the contrary anchorages to the north and west of the
Island, which are towards the Mako Naval Base, are
dosoribed.
In any case, the vessel had been at anchor only
a few minutes when it was sighted by a Japanese naval
vessel, which immediately put alongaide. The board-
ing boat launched by the Japanese destroyer is reported
to have capsised with 1& men. Ten of these men were
pioked up by the naval vessel and two by the NICOLINE
MAERSK. However, 7 guns and about l00 rounds of
ammmnition were lost. This point is mention as an
evidence of the rough seas running at the time.
Following

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
3
Following preliminary examinations at Boan Sho,
Hokuto (within the naval limits), the NICOLINE MAERSK
was taken to Takao, Taiwen, under escort of a destroyer
of the Japanese Navy, arriving at Takao on January
8, 1956, at 5 p.m.
The master of the ship was fined Yen 1,000, plus
court costs, on January 15, 1956, under a "Summary
Judgment", for violation of Artiole 3 of the Japanese
Navigation Laws, whioh article relates to entering
a port not a port of entry. A translation of Artiole
3 is enclosed herewith.
While there was no overt charge of espionage
brought against the ship, the master was held in
communicado from the time of the seizure of the ship
until the fine was paid and the ship released. At
no time was the agent of the ship permitted to see
the master. Furthermore, all the personal belongings
of the crew, including personal letters, were thoroughly
inspected by the police, removed from the ship, and
retained until after the case was finished.
The Agent further claims that it was impossible
for him to obtain legal counsel. However when I
di rectly questioned him on this point he admitted
that he had not actually approached a lawyer on the
case, but was assuming on hearsay that he would not
have been able to obtain the services of a local
lawyer. It might be mentioned parenthetically that
the agent had grounds for his assumption as it is
well known locally - in fact, a matter of newspaper
conment -

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-4
comment - that Mr. Chuki Ampo, the chief defense
lawyer for the Netherlands tank steamer JUNo which
was arrested last summer for a similiar offense, was
subsequently ostracised by the military and naval
officers of Taiwen. Mr. Ampo was President of the
Taihoku Bar Association, a licensed lawyer in the
military courts, and a member of the Advisory Council
of the Taiwen Government General. Following the
JUNO case, he was first debarred from practicing
before the military tribunals; he was later forced
to resign the presidenoy of the Bar Association and
from memberahip in the Advisory Council. Moreover,
as has been above intimated, the military and naval
officers of Taiwan made publicly kmown that they
would attend no funotion, either social or official,
at which Mr. Ampo was present. Furthermore, accord-
ing to newspaper reports, he received a number of
threatening letters from chauvinistic elements. In
view of Mr. Ampo experiences following the legal
defense of a foreign vessel entering the Pescadores,
the Maersk Line would doubtlessly have had to pay a
pretty penny to have obtained the services of a
reputable local lawyer.
It appears that the case of the NICOLINE MAERSK
was conduoted under what is termed an informal hearing,
followed by a "Summary Judgment". If the Agent had
not agreed to accept this judgment, a trial would
have followed. But the agent took what would appear
to have been the practi cal course with a view to
the

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
the fimaneial interests of his company. Aocording
to the Agent, the entire inoident cost the ship Ten 4,550,
not inoluding crews wages and delay of ship. ▲ trial
would doubtlessly have cost many times that sum.
Although the Director General's letter mentions
only the Mako Naval Base, it is clear in the light
of the experienee of the NICOLINE MAERSK that the
whole of the Pescadores group of islands is considered
as a closed naval base which foreien vessels should
serupulously endeavor to avoid.
I have sent a opy of the Director General's
letter, without comment, to the local agents of American
steamship lines represented in Taiwan, and in my
acknowledgment to the Director General infomed him
of that action. I am also writing to the American
Consul General in Tokyo with a view to obtaining
instruotions as to the proper method of ciroularizing
in the Far East the substance of the official warning
issued by the Taiwan Government.
Respectfully yours,
Enal osures:
American Consul.
1. Translation of a letter
dated February 4, 1936,
from Direotor General of
Taiwan to Ameri cen Consul,
Taihoku;
8. Translation of Article 3 of
File No. 830/885
Bam/thh
Original and 4 copies to Department;
1 copy to Eabassy, Tokyo;
1 copy to Consal General, Tokyo.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation.
TAIWAN GOVERNMENT GENERAL
Kan Gai No. 62.
Taihoku, February 4, 1936.
The Honorable
Edward S. Maney,
American Consul,
Taihoku.
Sir:
I have the honor to inform you that the number
of foreien vessels unlawfully entered the Mako Naval
Port and its vioinity sinoe November, 1934 has
totaled six inoluding the Danish merchant vessel of
January 6, 1936.
It is presumed that you are well aware that
such entries have frequently created complicated
d tuation. As you know foreign vessels are
absolutely forbidden to enter into or clear from
the Mako Naval Port without permission of the
competent authorities.
On the other hand owing to the strong monsoons
throushout the Formosa Channel there are many vessels
attempting to esoape them, but in such cases such
vessels are advised to choose Takao, Amping, or other
nearest port as the Government General is desirous
of strenuously preventing occurrence of unpleasant
incident.
Accordingly, I have the honor to request that
the above be brought through you to the attention of
all Ameri can shipping companies and their agents
having lines in the Far East.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
KIYOKANE KOHAMA
Chief, Bureau of Interior, and Aoting
Direotor General of Administration of
the Taiwan Government General.
(BBAL)

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
Trenslation.
SHIPPING LAW.
Artiole 3.
(N0. 68, 1905).
No vessels other than Japanese vessels are
permitted to enter into a closed port or transport
arti cles or passengers between Japanese ports,
ezcepting, however, cases where there are special
provisions in a law or treaty, or where escaping
from shipwreok or capture is attempted, or where
a special permission of the competent minister of
state has been obtained.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
7041
TELEPHONENATIONAL
7642
CABLE "OSAGE"
EDWIN H. DUFF
1308 FSTREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON. D.C.
FILE NO.
May 20, 1936
Quid.
FAR EASFERN AFFAIRS
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
MAY 2 1 1936
Washington, D. C.
.801
Sir:-
894A.801/2
I am enclosing for your information and appro-
priate action a communication from-the Ocehic and Oriental Nav-
igation Company, with enclosures, from which it will aopear that
because of recent drastic administration of the regulations of
the Japanese Government relating to the fortified areas of For-
mosa and the Pescadores, vessel owners are virtually placed in
the position of having their property confiscated if in an emer-
gency the judgement of the master requires that they take refuge
in or adjacent to these areas, or, instructing the master to dis-
regard life and property to avoid these areas. It will also be
noted from the correspondence the British Government is consid-
ering a formal protest.
All of the statutes of the United States Govern-
ment with which I am familiar generally recognize exceptions in
the case of vessels in distress seeking refuge in our harbors,
and it would not, therefore, seem inappropriate to submit the
matter to the Japanese Government on the basis of some recip-
rocal understanding. We take the liberty of suggesting that
consideration be given to the advisability of formally pro-
F/G
testing the reasonableness of these regulations before Ameri-
can vessels actually become technically subject to confiscation
by taking refuge in alleged violation of at least the manner in
which these regulations have heretofore been administered.
Possibly consideration may be given to the manner
C
in which refuge may be taken so as to alleviate any fears of
D
espionage.
16
36
Thanking you for your consideration of this
matter, I am
Very rempectfully yours.
Simot Dufy
ILE/e

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.88)
COPY
FAL NAVIGATION COMPANY
16,1936
Xn-11-5
B. C.
ANCHORING AT OR HEAR CLOSED PORTS IN FORMORA
Dear sirt-
We mew have eeples of a further letter frem the Brisish
mese mutherities on this subjeet; copies are also attached.
It eeeurs te us that this is a matter with whieh eur own
és imvelved we mmst leave it to them to take suitable aétion for
Yours faithrully,
T. G. PLANT
viee Prosident
gant

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
534
January 22, 1936.
States Steamship Company,
Portland, Orogon, U.S.A.
Gentlemen:
We have Just received copy of a letter from Carter Macy Tea & Coffee Co.,
Ino., A.P.L. agents in Formosa, to Manila Orrice, and in case you have
mot received a copy, we quote same below as we feel sure the contents will
greatly interest you:-
"We would romind you or the arrest and detention by the
4a.5(21
Japanese naval authorities last year of the Dutoh oil Tanker
JUNo for entering the Pescadores during bad weather. The
Master was in prison for over a month on a oharge of espoinage
and the vessel was held for two months before the case was
adjudged. Although the Captain was finally released with a
very nominal fine, the lawyer's and oourt fees involved were
extraordinarily high, and, taken in conjunction with the
demurrage of the vessel, it must have proved a very expensive
incident for the owners.
A similar case occurred last week with the arrest of one of
the IAERSK vessels whioh was proceeding from Vanila to Dalny
in ballast, ran into heavy weather and took refuge off one
of the small islands of the Pescadores group. The vessel
was arrested by a Japanese destroyer and taken into Takao where
she has been detained for the last six days on a oharge of
having entered a fortified zone. The agents here have been
unable to secure any action fron the local naval or military
authorities and the matter has now been taken up by the Danish
legation in Tokyo. Apparently the authorities now regard the
whole of the Fesoadores group as a forbidden area and approach
within three miles of any of the islands constituted an
offence.
Whilst not attempting to advise Masters as to the navigation
of their vessels, we would urgently request that the existing
ciroumstanoes be made known as widely as possible, and that
special precautions be taken to avoid approaoh to the
Pescadores."
As you know, in the tea season, A. P. L. vessels proceed from Hongkong
to Keelung. While the Pesoadores are considerably out of the route
of our own steamers under ordinary weather conditions, you may still
think it advisable to acquaint our Captains with these conditions so
that special preoautions can be taken to avoid approaohing this fortifie
area.
Yours very truly,
STATES STEAMSHIP COMPANY
General Agent
DJF: EDA
(COPY)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
TAIWAN GOVERNMENT GENERAL
Taihoku, February 4th, 1936.
Kan Gai No. 62
The Honourable,
Edward S. Maney,
American Consul,
Taihoku.
sir,
I have the honour to inform you that the nuber of
foreign vessels whioh unlawfully entered the Mako Naval Port and its
vioinity since November, 1934 has totaled six including the Danish
merehant vessel on Junuary 6, 1936.
It is pres med thut you ure well uwure thet such entries
have frequently creeted complictted situtions. As you know, foroign
vessels are absolutely forbidden to enter into or clear from the Mako
Naval Port without permission of tho competent authorities.
On the other hand, owing to the strong monsoons throughout
the Formosa Channel there are many vessels attempting to esoape them.
Suoh vessels are advised to ohoose Takeo, imping, or other nearest port
as the Government General strenuously desires to prevent the occurrence
of unpleasant inoidents.
Aooordingly, I have the honour to request that the above
be rought through you to the attention of all American shipping compani
and their agents having lines in the Far East.
I have the honour to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
KIYOKANE KOHAMA
Chief, Bureau of Interior, and Acting Director
General of Administration of the Taiwan Government
Beneral.
(COPY)

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
American Consulate, Kobe, Japan, February 2lst, 1936.
States Steamship Company
16 Maye machi,
Kobe.
Gentlemon:-
The Consulate is in receipt of a communication addressed
to the Amerioan Consulate at Taihoku from the Chief of the Bureau of
Interior and Acting Direotor General of Administration of the Taiwan
Government General, concerning the unlawful entrance of foreign mercha
vessels at the Mako Naval Port and its vicinity, a copy of whioh is
attached for your information.
This matter is brought to your attention in order that
vessels of your line or lines may be warned accordingly.
The Consul
at Taihoku suggests that in view of the unpleasantnesses visited upon
the foreign vessels which recently came into contaot with the Mako
Naval Port authorities, that the term "Mako Naval Port" be extended
to inolude all the islands of the Pescadores group.
Respectfully yours,
(SGD.) KENNETH KRENTZ,
American Jonsul
(COPY)

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
BRITISH CONSULATE - TAMSUI
18th January, 1936
(CONFIDENTIAL)
Dear Sirs,
Inview of the frequenoy with which foreign vessels have durin
the last year inourred suspioion of espionage through "entry into un-
opened ports" in the Pesoadores and Formosa, I think that in the intere
of British shipping it is desirable to attempt to derine the position
these precedents have established.
2. The case of the JUno established the fact that any fore
ship entering the fortified zone of Mako, or Makung, in the Pescadores
was liable to inour trouble of a very grave kind, and might even be
confiscated.The southern islands of the Fescadores are, however, out
the fortified zone, and so it was not unnatural for a Master to conelud
that while the northern group including the harbour of Mako, were barre
he might legitimately find temporary anchorage in the lee of one of the
more southerly islands.
3. The case of the NICOLINE MAERSK proves that this conolusio
1s unwarranted. The feer of espionage is not limited to the fortiried
zones but extends to the whole coast line. Jonsequently there has been
a tendenoy to interpret with extreme rigour Article 3 of the hipping L
which limits foriegn ships to the use of certain "open" ports, of which
in Formosa there are four, viz: Keelung, Tamsui, Amping and Takao. All
other places are deemed to be "unopened" and entry is punishable with a
fine not exoeeding 2,Ooo Yen, and "in grave cases" the confisoation of
the ship.
4. In the oase of the NICOLINE MAERSK, the incident ocourred
on January 6th, and after a prolonged investigaticn the Master was on
January 15th, ordered to pay a fine of 1,00o Yen; the ship was released
the next day. The judgment states that, when at a point l4 miles west
of Amping, the master turned west owing to head winds, and came to anch
at a point 1,300 meters south of the small island of Hatte-to (See
British Admiralty Chart /196l). The Judgment lays down that, ir the
Master found himselr unable to make headway, his proper course was to
turn and go with a fair wind for shelter to the open ports of Takao or
Amping; and his anohorage off Hatto-to is construed as an unauthorized
entry into an unopened port. No fortified zones are mentioned in the
judgment and, despite inaccurate accounts of a contrary nature in the
press, it is olear that none were involved.
5. I would ask you therefore to warn any British masters that
while the southern Pesoadores are less gravely regarded than the
northern, it would seem that now any anohorage within territorial water
is deemed to constituse "entry into a port". This applies even though
the ship anchors for a purely temporary purpose, and no attempt is made
to hold communioation with the shore. Nor can I enoourage any hope the
this very severe interpretation of the Shipping Law applies only to the
Pesoadores. The oase of the FLYING DUTCHMAN suggests that immunity oar
only be ensured by regarding it as applioable to Formosa as a whole; and

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
that therefore the only places within Formosan territorial waters whe
foreigm shipping can anohor without risk of very costly delays are th
four treaty ports or Keelung, Tamsui, Amping and Takao, and the diree
approaohes thereto.
6. Finally, if an emergency should arise so grave that a
Master feels compelled to seek shelter in an unopened port despite
of this warning, he should even then avoid Mako, if he possibly can,
and in addition I would most strongly advise that he have all cameras
and films which may be on board colleoted by a responsible officer,
and looked up before any land comes within photographic range. This
precaution is most advisable even though no fortiried zones may be
involved.
. You may use your disoretion in showing this letter
privately to parties concerned, but it should not be published or
posted up.
I am, Dear irs,
Yours truly,
H. B. . CONSUL.
(COPY)

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
BRITISH CONSULATE - TAMSUI
Fobruary 6, 1936.
Dear Sirs,
with reference to my letter of the l8th January, I beg to
Inform you that I have now received a letter from the Aoting Director
General of the Government of Formosa, asking that I should distribute
the widest possible warning to British shipping interests against entry
into "unopened" and "derended" ports. He makes the following two pointa
1./ Entry into the defended port of Mako in the Pesoadores is absolutely
prohibited to foreign vessels, unless special permission be obtained in
advanoe. (Note:- Mako is also variously spelt in oharts and sailing
direetions as Bako (or Bako ko) Makyu and Makung).
2./ Foreign ships navigating the Formosan channel and in need of shelter
should seleot "Takao", Amping or other open port in the vioinity".
(There are no "open ports" in the Pescadores, and the only ones in the
whole of Formosa are Keelung, Tamsui, Amping and Takao; but there are,
of course, Chinese "open ports" on the other side of strait).
Thus this letter directly confirms previous impressions tha
the only places in Formosa or the Fesoadores where foreign ships can
anchor without risk of trouble cre the four open ports of Keelung, Tamsui
Amping and Takao. In this conneotion I cannot too strongly emphasize
that mere avoidance of the Mako fortified zone does not confer immunity.
Entry into this zone is punished with special severity, but entry into
(or anohoring off) any unopened port whether fortified or not, is an
offonce under Artiole 3 of the Shipping Lew, end is likely to be punished
as such.
I am, dear Sirs,
Yours truly,
C. H. ARCHER
H.M.B. CONSUL.
Messrs. Carter Macy Tea & Coffee Co., Inc.
Eirakuoho
TAIHOKU.
(COPY)

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
BRITISH CONSULATE - TAMSUI
Maroh 13, 1936
Dear Sirs,
with reference to my letter of February 17th on the subjeet
of warnings to British shipping against entry into "unopened" ports
in Fermosa, I have now received a despatoh from His Majesty's Ambassador
whieh it would appear that the dirriculties which have beset foreign
shippims off the coast of Formosa have been experienced in lesser degree
elsewhere in Japanese waters. Seeing that the point at issue, namely
the right of the Japanese authorities to interpret their own regulations
im what appears to be a completely arbitrary manner, is of more than
leeal importanoe, he does not for the time being wish me to make further
representations here.
2. His zoellenoy states that it would appear both from
recent experiences of foreign shipping and from a statement made
in May last by the Secretary to the Minister of Marine to the Naval
Attache, to be the considered pdioy of the Japanese Government that
foreign shipping shall not anchor, even under extreme stress of
weather, anywhere in Japanese territorial waters except at the specified
"open ports" and the direot approaches thereto, and that any vessel
whioh anohors on any part of the coast not included in the list of
"open ports" shall be liable to detention pending investigation by
the polioe authorities. The general attitude taken up by the Japanose
Government in this matter hes been indiceted to the Foreign Ofrice, and
the question of a formal approaoh to the Japanese authorities on the
subjoot is under active consideration.
3. You will see from this that His Mejesty's Ambassador
entirely oonours in my interpretation of the present situation; but
he direots me to add that, while the position does in fact appear to
be as met forth by me in my firat two ciroular letters, and while
Masters would do well to bear in mind my recommendations, yet the
ultimate decision as to when an emergenoy requires that they should
be disregarded must, as always, rest with the Master.
4. I am also to suggest that if, under conditions of grave
danger, Masters should decide to seek safety in Formosan waters else-
where than at one of the four open ports, they should ondeavonr to
comunicate their intentions by wireless to both Japanese and British
authorities. This should at least assist in preventing any subsequent
charge of acting in a suspioious manner.
I am dear Sirs,
Yours truly,
C. H. ARCHER
H.M.B. Consul
P.S. I shall be glad if you will, so far as possible, endeavour to bri
the points contained in the last two paragraphs to the notice of
to whom you may have issued the original warnings.
(COPY)

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.87)
Attached:
Navigation Law, trans., Art. 3.
( List of, regula-
"Open Ports"
"Closed Ports" ) tions, etc.
in reply refer to
 102.0/5841
y dear r. eoretary:
 refer to the Navy opartment's letter under date
6
otober 5, lass, in whiah roquost is ede that the Movy
h
opartmont be furoluher wit o ist of "olosed ports" in
0
h
the Japns ire. e Am cn harge Affe res at
力
Tokye was direeted to endeaver to o tain tle information
desired y the Sovy epertot, on  ae le now enoloaed
e paraphraeo of  telegran in  is rogerd receiver by the
"opartment from the hargé eiren.
Mhore are alec enelosed unofficial translations of
Artiolo 3 of the Japanese avi ation aw, of mmorial
rainmee nc. s42 of iy l, . an last mended in
and
103 ne ofaice.io .10,  1a,it
9
1s bellovod, may be of intoreat to o Havy epertrant.
m
incerely youre,
nolosures:
araphrase!
ranslations.
m
The onorable
8t
Claude A. nson,
orotary of t' o Hcvy.
:7
1-25-56

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAPHRASE
A telegram dated Cetober 23, 1935, from the Amrieen
Chargé d'Affaires ad interin at Tokyo, reeds subetantially
as follows:
Only a list of "open porte" is listed by the Japanese
Government. There does not exist any elassifieetion "closed
porte". The Naval Attaehé is sending by mmil to the Navy
Department a revised and conplete list of "open porte".
No military or naval aspeet of the elassifieation of
ports as "open" is apparent. The epartment of Finanee alone
determimes suoh elassifieetion, the rule vein that ports in
Japan and in Kwantung Leased Territory where there are
established customs houses are classified es "open ports".
In Koree, Yormosm and the  andeted Ialands the respeotive
Governor is authorised, with the approval of the Ministry of
Oversees Affairs, in like manner to classify "open" ports
under their respective jurisdictions. Japanese vessels
coming from foreign ports and foroign vessels are not
permitted to enter any port not so listed. This measure
appears to be dietated by purely comercial considerntions,
such as to provent muggling.
As navel stations are not classified us "open ports".
they are closed to shippine: however, certain ports, such as
agasaki, oji, Hakodate, lying within fortiried areas are
classified as "open".

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.90)
TRANALATION
LAVIGATION A. (Lw No. 46 of Hareh 8, 1899).
Artiele 3. Veasele not of Japanese registry may not enter
elosed perts or earry passengers or eargo between the various
ports of Japen; provided, however, that, whemever stipulated
by treaty, the foregoins provision shall no! siply in the eese
of veseels in cistrese or seekinf refuge from pirutes; and
to vessels entering with the "ermission f the eompetent
minister of stete.
FE: dii: Rex

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.88)
THANNLATION
DMPTRIAL ORDIHANCK DESIOHATING PAN PORTS AND
(Imperial ordimemee No. s42 of July 13, 1899,
as Last emended 1n 1930).
Ve hereby sametion and enuse to be promulgated the
ardimamee éesigneting open norts and ports in whieh goods
may be impurted and exported.
Privy Seal
Imperial Sign anual.
Artiele l. in addition to the ports reviously designated
as open ports (Yokoham in anaawa refecture; agasaki
in Nagmmaki refeeture; Hakodate in  okkaido; obe in
Hyogo Prefeeture; 1isate andbisu in iigste refeeture;
and saie in veske refeeture), the following named ports
are designated as pen ports:
Snimidsu
Uno
Tokuyamm
aketoyo
Immbari
Hagi
bimonoseki
nonichi-Itoznki
Yokkaichi
Karatou
0J1
Izuharo
Fakame tou
uminoe
Auehinotu
Kakata
1umi
Mahe
Miike
kahoshina
Hamada
Sakai
Touruga
Punakawa
1yadsu
Hanao
Fushiki
A0mor1
Heruro
Aushiro
taru
tomar1
moka
uroran
Artiele 2. Cancelled.
artiole S. hould the vmlue of importe and exports at any
one of the purts mantioned in artiole 1 fail to attain curing
a perlod of two meeessive years the sun of Yen 50,0v0, such
port sall be closed.
In the ovent that, for the purpose of improving
commmnieutions, e port should be oponed in the vicinity of
any

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.88)
一 2 -
Say ome of the ports mentiomed in Artiele 1, and in the
evemt that it is deemed that smeh latter pert may becoms
unmeeeseary, sueh letter port may be elosed, notwithstanding
the provimioms of the preseding paragraph.
The Xinister of finance shall sive three monthe'
previous notiee of the closing of any port.
FH:EHD:REK

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.83)
TRANSLATIVE
OBPINANCE DESIGHATING OPAE PORTN D THE JOUTA
(Grdimamee No. 13 of Jume 1. 1922).
Artiele 1. In meeordance wit): rtiele 3 of Imperial
ureinamse No. 295 of 191z, the followine ports are desigmated
as opports:
Laipan
6280
ngenr
Juluit
ruk
rtiele 2. Coode ineludod in Cupter  of the Tariff of
Custome Duties on Imports may nct :e in, orted at ngaur.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
July 7 193e
In reply refer to
FE 894A.801/2
Mr. Edwin H. Duff,
894A.801/
1308 F Street, N.d..
Nashington, D. C.
Sir:
The receipt is aoknowledged of your letter of May 20,
2
l936, enolosing copies of various communications in regard
to the manner of enforoement by the Japanese authorities
of the regulations governins entry of foreign vessels into
ports and areas in Japanese territorial waters not open to
foreign shipping. You suggest that in view of the fact
that statutes of the United States generally reoognize
exceptions in the case of vessels in distress seeking
refuge in our harbors, 1t might not seem inappropriate
for this Government to make representations to the Japmese
Govermment with a view to mitigating the treatment which
might be accorded to American vessels taking refuge under
stress of weather at places not inoluded 1n the list of
"open ports" of Japan.
It 1s moted from the letter of the British Consul
at Tamsui, sopy of which was enolosed with your letter,
thes

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.87)
o of e formal appreeeh to the Japen
 the bjees is under estive sonid
avebe taken in this direetien by the Britise
erities.
Teur courtesy in making available to the Departmemt
 infesmatien contained in the cepies of decumemts es
elossd with your letter is appresiated.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
m. mi1).
Maxwell M. Hamilton,
Leting Chier.
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
the
origi
JUL 8 1938.
230m
NY
FR:WTV/DLY
FE
Lo
P
7-2-36

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.92)
July 7 1930
1075
Jootph O. Gree,
Amsrieen Ambassador.
Tokye.
There is emslosed for your information a sopy of s
Retter dated May 20, 19s6, from Mr. Edwin H. Daff writing
bebalf of the Oseanie and Criental Navigation Compeny
im regard to the marmer of enforeement by the Japanese
entherities of the regulations governing entry of foreigs
veesels into ports end areas in Japanese territorial
maters met open to foreign shipping. Appended to this
letter are copies of three letters, written epparently by
the British Consul at Tamsui and addressed to British
shipping firms.
The statement will be noted in the second paragraph
of the British Comsul's letter of March 18, 19s6, that
"the questiom of a formel approash to the Japanese autber-
ittes on the sabjest is umder aetive sonsidsratien". It
is reqessted that you endeaver to eseertein diserestly
Frem the British Rakessy in Tokyo what stepe may have

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
Any further information or comments which you may be mble
to supply would be appreciated.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
B.  
Enclosures:
From Edwin E. Duff,
May 20, 1936
rom  ritish Consul amsui,
January 18, 1936
February 6, 1936
March 13, 1936
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
Le
AAA
7-2-36
3.3.N.
avaent
9

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
LÉGAL ADVISER
1937
he
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
TA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FA
No. 1974.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, August 6, 1936.
SUBJECT: SHIPPING DIFFICULTIES IN JAPAN.
894a.501
MAR 30 1937
SERVICE AUMINISTRATION
95 A  1 26
Division of
S
AUG 25 1936
5
894A.801/3
C
Department of State
RE
DIVISION OF
DEFAR
IRADE AGRELMENTS
1937
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
1142.1012
No. 1075, dated July 7, 1936, with which was enclosed
a letter from Mr. Edwin H. Duff dated May 20, 1936,
FURD
writing on behalf of the Oceanic and Oriental Navi-
gation Company in regard to the manner of enforcement
1937
by the Japanese authorities of the regulations governing
entry of foreign vessels into ports and areas in Japanese
territorial waters not open to foreign shipping, and
instructing this Embassy to make discreet inquiries of
the British Embassy in regard to that Embassy's formal
F/FG
approach

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
approach to the Japanese authorities on the subject, I
have the honor to report that this Embassy approached
the British Embassy in regard to the matter and as-
certained that the British Embassy, in June, 1936,
addressed a formal and rather strong note to the Foreign
Office on the subject. The note referred to the inter-
national custom of permitting vessels of any nation, under
stress of weather, to anchor within coastal waters out-
side the open ports or in unopened harbors of any country.
The British Ambassador had intended to inform his col-
leagues in Tokyo of his representations in this con-
nection, but as the summer was coming on and members of
the Diplomatic Corps were rapidly leaving Tokyo for the
summer resorts, he has not yet taken this action. More-
over, as he has not yet received a reply to his note
from the Foreign office, he does not consider himself
in a position to supply copies or summaries of his note
to his colleagues.
American shipping has not yet been involved in diffi-
culties because of anchoring through stress of weather in
Japanese territorial waters outside the open ports or in
unopened ports, but this Embassy considers that some in-
cident in this connection may occur at any moment, and that,
therefore, it would be advisable to take in the near
future some such step as that taken by the British Embassy.
Respectfully yours,
820.02
X
Joseph C. Grew.
ERD:r

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
FA
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DIVISIONOF FOREIGN
OF THE
SEHVICE AOMINISTRATION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
894a.801
Tokyo, August 20, 1936.
No. 1995.
SUBJECT:
HAPPING DIFFICULTIES IN JAPAN.
111
6
3
n
Division of
2
SNO
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894A.801/6
RDS
1A
P-1936
8
Department of State
041
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
1931
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No.
2
1075, dated July 7, 1936, and to this Embassy's despatch
No. 1974, dated August 6, 1936, both concerning the mannor
of enforcement by the Japanese authorities of the rogula-
tions covering the entry of foreign vessels into ports and
C
areas in Japanese territorial waters not ordinarily open
1/
to foreign shipping, I now have the honor to enclose here-
with a copy of the note of June 23, 1936, addressed to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs by the British Ambassador in
2/
Tokyo on this subject, as well as a translation, made by
the British Embassy, of the reply of the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, dated August 1l, 1936.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
1/2 As stated above.
Joseph C. Grew
820.02
ERD:g

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
3. In this connexion I am to invite Your Excellency's
attention to the answers given by the Japanese Govern-
ment to the questionnaire issued as a preliminary to the
Hague Conference of 1930 for the Codification of Interna-
tional Iaw, in which the following passages occured:
"(a) It may be regarded as having already been
"established by international law that a State must
"give to foreign merchant ships the right of inno-
"cent passage through its territorial waters."
"A vessel, while passing through territorial
"waters, should not be considered to be within its
"rights of innocent passage in anchoring in those
"waters, except in case of distress or in case of
"necessity for the purpose of passage. In cases
"other than that of distress or that of necessity
"for the purpose of passage, a vessel which anchors
"in territorial waters need not be treated in the
"same way as a vessel exercising the right of inno-
"cent passage; such a vessel should in regard to
"jurisdiction, taxes, etc., rather be given a
"treatment analogous to that of a foreign vessel in
"port. An exception is, of course, to be made in
"cases where a vessel anchors in distress or from
"necessity for the purpose of passage."
4. His Majesty's Government hope that the Imperial
Japanese Government may find it possible to adopt the prac-
tice of other countries and throw open to the innocent
passage

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
passage of vessels, including anchorage in distress, the whole
of their territorial waters and ports, except those places
where restrictions are necessary for purposes of defense;
and that, as is customary, even these restrictions will be
administered leniently in cases where a vessel genuinely
in distress has to put into a defended port. I should
explain that His Majesty's Government, by the phrase " a
vessel in distress" mean, not only a vessel on the point of
sinking, but a vessel which unless she took shelter would
be in danger either through stress of weather or other cause
of force majeure (i.e. other circumstances which neither
the Master nor the owner, nor the charterer (if any) could
have prevented or forestalled.)
5. If the Imperial Japanese Government are unable to con-
form to the normal practice of other countries in this mat-
ter, His Lajesty's Government will find it necessary, in
the interests of the safety of life at sea, to issue a
Notice to Mariners, a draft of which is enclosed in this
note. His Majesty's Government will also, in that event,
be glad to learn, in view of the Japanese replies to the
questionnaire mentioned in paragraph 3 above, on what
grounds the Imperial Japanese Government feel unable to accede
to the proposals put forward in paragraph 4.
I avail myself of this oprortunity to renew to Your
Excellency the assurance of my highest consideration.
(SGD) R. H. CLIVE

=== Page 32 === (confidence 1.00)
DRAFT NOTICE TO MARINERS
Masters are warned that the position as regards
liberty of anchorage, even under stress of weather or
other cause of force majeure, is different in Japanese
waters from that which holds elsewhere.
If a vessel anchors for any reason whatsoever
anywhere in the territorial waters of the Japanese
Empire outside the limits of an open port, the Master is
liable to be arrested, and runs a grave risk of imprisonment,
confiscation of the ship and cargo, or of a heavy fine.
The following is a list of the open ports:

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1995 of August 20, 1936, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
COPY
TRANSLATION NO. 165.
11th August 1936.
Sir:
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your
Note No. 105 of the 23rd June, in which Your Excellency
stated under instructions from His Majesty's Principal
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, that the restrictions
on the movement and anchorage of Foreign vessels in Imperial
waters were without parallel in other countries and that
it was to be feared that such restrictions might endanger
the safety of shipping and of human lives. Your Excellency
accordingly expressed the hope that, following the present
practice of other countries, the Imperial Government also
would see their way to allow in times of distress anchorage
and innocent passage in Japanese waters, excluding such
restricted areas as may be necessary for purposes of defense,
and that they would treat liberally a vessel entering a
port in cases of real necessity, even though it were within
an area restricted for purposes of national defense. Your
Excellency further stated that His Majesty's Government's
interpretation of the phrase " vessels in distress" included
not only vessels in danger of sinking but also vessels
finding themselves in a situation rendering it necessary
tc seekrefuge from storm or other cause of force majeure
and

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
and that, should the Imperial Government be unable to con-
form to the practice of other countries in these matters,
His Majesty's Government would be obliged, in the interests
of the safety of life at sea, to issue a notice to mariners
in terms set out in the enclosure of Your Excellency's Jote.
2. As regards the entry and anchorage of foreign vessels
in ports in Imperial waters other than open ports, it is
provided under Article 3 of the Navigation Law that vessels
are at liberty to enter and anchor even in unopened ports in
cases where special permission has been obtained or in times
of distress. The interpretation of the tern "distress" in
that Law, which is precisely the same as that of His Majesty's
Government as given towards the end of paragraph 4 of Your
Excellency's Note, covers cases when shelter must be sought
owing to storm or other cause of force majeure and I would
cite as evidence of this fact the case of the entry and
anchorage without permission of the British s.s. CHRISTINA
in Kaiko, Takao Frovince, Formosa in June of last year, when
the master, for reasons which could not be foreseen, was
obliged to put in for coal but was not prosecuted since his
vessel was regarded as being in distress.
3. Naval ports and Secondary naval ports are all unopened
ports and as such are clearly subject to the application of
Article 3 of the Navigation Law to which reference has been
made above, but at the same time though it is clearly neces-
sary for the purposeof national defense that not only "dis-
tress" but also special circumstances should exist such as
the impossibility of sheltering in the nearest alternative
port

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
port before foreign vessels may enter or anchor in them,
it is not intended to prohibit the entry even of foreign
ships in cases of extreme urgency. In fact the British
merchant vessel MINNIE MOLIER (commanded by a British
subject) when sailing from Wakamatsu to Shanghai altered
her course on account of rough weather and was about to
put into the naval port of Sasebo on the 9th September 1935.
She was ordered to stop by the lookout station at Kogosaki
but she cast anchor in the entrance of the harbour flying
a signal of distress, and, when it was found on investiga-
tion that she had no ulterior motives, she was allowed to
continue her voyage without restraint.
But it is of importance to take special note of the
fact that Naval ports and Secondary naval ports are divided
into three sections: the conditions set forth above are
sufficient to permit of entry and anchorage in the outer or
Third section but special and gen ine grounds for the fear
of safety cannot be found in the Third section must neces-
sarily exist before the vessel may penetrate further into
the harbour and anchor in the Second or First Sections.
Your Excellency is aware from asemi-official communication
dated the 28th February 1935 from Mr. Shigemitsu, Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs, of the incident which occurred
in December 1934, when the British s.s. LANGLEEBROOK entered
the secondary naval port of Mako in circumstances which wer
recognized as constituting distress. Although this entry
was not therefore a breach of Article 3 of the Navigation
Law,

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Law, this vessel could actually have found sufficient
shelter in Section 3 of the harbour, but, this notwith-
standing, she penetrated into the Second section and cast
anchor there for which offense she was fined Fifty Yen.
4. No special r strictions whatever are imposed by the
Empire on the mere innocent passage of vessels within Im-
perial waters, a fact which will readily be appreciated from
the right of innocent passage actually accorded to foreign
vessels through the Inland Sea which forms a part of those
waters.
I avail etc.
Legal
Seal.
Hachiro Arita.
H.I.J.M.'s Minister for Foreign Affairs.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.83)
ARTMENT OF STATE
ION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 18
0.1.
reture Them fite to D(R.
Doan ajtche Tmer mio
was mritiin & called
inrsted
him
To cr.le
Taek.
in
shawed up.
He
has no

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Soptember 10, 1936.
Division of
EHD?
APR 6 - 1937
Department of State
..801
In May of this year Mr. E. H. Duff, representing the
Oceanic and Oriental Navigation Company, called at the De-
partment to discuss the manner of administration of naviga-
tion laws in Japan and to suggest that steps be taken to
urge Japanese authorities to modify their attitude toward
894A.801/7
foreign vessels entering closed areas under stress of
weather. Subsequently Mr. Duff wrote a letter to the
Department, which, with enclosures, is contained in the
appended file.
Perusal of the enclosures to Mr. Duff's letter re-
vealed that the British Embassy in Tokyo was contemplating
the making of a protest to the Japanese Government against
the restrictions imposed on the "innocent passage of British
ships" through Japanese waters.
The Department addressed an instruction to our Embassy
in Tokyo requesting that an inquiry be made to determin
what steps had been taken in this connection by the British
Embassy. Two despatches have been received in reply.
With the latter, received in the Department on the
9th instant, were enclosed copies of a British note to
F
F
the Japanese Government and the Japanese note in reply.
Q
The British note is extremely sharp in tone, and charges
the

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the Japanese with imposing undue restrictions on the
movement of ships, including anchorage in distress, which
are stated to be "without parallel elsewhere and . . .
bound to constitute a grave danger to the safety of
shipping in general". The note stated that if the Japa-
nese Government were "unable to conform to the normal
practice of other countries" the British Government would
consider it necessary to issue a warning to mariners that
the position of shipping in Japan "is different in Japanese
waters from that which holds elsewhere".
In the Japanese reply it is pointed out that the
Navigation Law provides that vessels are at liberty to enter
unopened ports in case of emergency. Instances are cited
in support of this assertion. The note declares that
no unusual restrictions are imposed by Japanese authorities
on the mere innocent passage of foreign vessels within
Japanese waters.
In this passage-at-arms it appears that the Japanese
had the best of it. They were able to point to a provision
of the Navigation Law which specifically provides for the
treatment demanded by the British, and were able to cite an
example of such treatment extended to a British ship. On
the other hand, the British charges were somewhat general,
and were not supported by citations. The British appear
to have "stuck out their necks" to some extent in this
instance, and the Japanese showed some restraint in not
"cracking

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
"cracking down" harder than they did.
The fact of the matter appears to be that while
Japanese law makes due provision for emergencies to accord
with international law and practice, yet in the determina-
tion of what constitutes an emergency and in the punishment
meted out to violators, as well as in the manner of
judicial inquiry, the Japanese procedure is unquestionably
rigid and even harsh. However, these are largely matters
of internal law and administration, in which no civilized
country will concede the right of any other country to
interfere. We may hope that the British protest will
at least have some effect in mitigating the severity with
which Japanese law is administered.
In its first despatch on this subject our Embassy
recommended that it would be advisable for this Government
to take, in the near future, some such step as that taken
by the British in order to prevent the occurence at some
time in the future of such mishaps as have befallen British
for the following reasons:
No American ship has been involved, i recent years,
in difficulties because of entering closed areas of
Japanese territorial waters. I do not see how we could
effectively protest against merely the possibility of
trouble. On paper, at least, Japanese law and procedure
couformrs
vomplies with normal international practice. In the
absence

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -
absence of specific instances, no protest is possible which
could not easily be rebutted merely by quoting provisions
of existing law. Therefore, it seems to me obvious that
this Government has no valid grounds, and would be ill-advis-
ed, to make any representations to the Japanese Government
in regard to treatment of American vessels.
I would recommend that Mr. Duff be invited to call at
the Department, and that he be informed orally in the sense
of the present memorandum. I would recommend that no
further action be taken, and that the file be returned
to DCR.
9N3
FE:WTT/DLY
mmit
