894C.114 Regulations Governing, Kwantung Leased Territory, Traffic In Liquors And Habit-Forming Drugs. Each Subdivision Will Be Made A Separate Case., August 11, 1922 - March 17, 1930 (File 696)
ID: 894C.114-696   Pages: 372   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.114-regulations-governing-kwantung-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
SUBJECT
Traffic in Narcotics in Kwantung
DATE
8- 11-22
894C.114 NAI 00
CASE NUMBER
Ti
iCS/I TO 7O
No.
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1-1235

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
BUREAU
INDEX
SEP
1922
No. 25.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen Manchuria, August 11, 1922.
Feur
SUBJECT: JUDGNTS I OLIU OANDAL.
Dupartment
Div:
EASTERN
EP 7 1922
THE HONORABLE
INDEX BUREAU
0
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Stata.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to tranumit herewith a clifping from
1/
the MuNHURIa DAILY NEWs of August 1oth, regarding the judg
ments rendered in the notorious Kvantung opiu. scandal
which has been a pending case for a year and a half.
SEP 20 1922
DroKoga, formerly Director of the Cclonial Bureau,was
FIFRD
sentenced to six months penal servitude,to be deferred for
three years, which probably meens that he will escape im-
prisonment altogether. Mr. Nakano, formerly Civil Admin-
Astrator of Dalren, was sentenced to penel servitude for a
year and four months; Obata and Kajii each for one year.
The total amount of which the Government had been defrauded
was found to be Yen 841,026.78, which was reccvered by ci-
vil suit. It would seem that the two officials particulart
ly got off very lightly, considering the gravity of their
offenses. It is difficult to understand how such leniency
can be roconoiled with the Government's announced purpose
of taking drastio measures against official corruption.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your abedient servant,
811.4
Consul.
Emelosure: Clipping from the MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
AMERI CAN CONSULAR SERVI CE.
Enclosure No. 1 to accompany Dairen Despatch No. 25
of August 11, 1922, File No. 811.4.
(FrOm the MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS of AUGUST 10, 1922).
JUDGMENTS RENDERED IN
Reasons.
OPIUM CASE.
(1) Not a few Chinese residing in
the Kwantung Leased Territory
have become addicted to opiuin
As previously reported, judgments
smoking. The Kwantung Govern-
were handed down on the prisoners
ment, in order to supply opium to
in the great Opium Case pending be-
these habitual smokers so as to fill
fore the Ryojun District Court,
their crying physical need, at the
Port Arthur, at 10 a.nm. on the 8th.
same time, to create a source of re-
Of the ten prisoners, only two
venue. nominated the Chinese
were present, namely, Fujii and
Charity Iustitute located at Dairen
Morigami, both of Dairen. Five
and foumded by Chinese, as import-
barristers comprising Messrs. Saito,
er and seller of opium, by the exer-
Gosen, Aikawa, Ohuchi, and Yone-
cise of the adninistrative authority
oka, of the counsel for the defence,
it is invested with. The Opiuin
also attended. Educational Sec-
Office of the above Institute has
retary Imai, of the Kwantung Gov-
been etupowered to attend to the
ernment, who has represented the
purchase tnd sake- of the opium,
Government in the civil suit brought
and the net profit cleared fromn the
up against the defence, together
business is to be paid to the Kwan-
with Mr. Chiga, another barrister of
tung Government through the Dai-
Dairen and ccunsel for the suit, were
ren Civil Administration. As to the
also noticed. Chief Judge Tsuchiya,
affair- of the Opium Office, the Civil
of the District Court, with Associate
Administrator i- to direct and con-
Judges Morimoto and Nagane, and
trol them.
Public Procurator Yasuoka, who has
conducted the prosecution took their
The Civil Administrater. Dairen,
respective seats on the benches. The
is authorized to appoint and dis-
audience was composed of twenty.
miss officials of the Opium Office,
four people.
and to tix the purchasing and selling
Chief Judge Tsuchiya rose, and
prices of Opiun. The Civil Ad.
delivered sentences to the follewing
ininistrator inakes the Opium Office
effect:
fook after the details. He is charg-
Renzo Koga sentenced to 6
ed to see that the net profit payable
months' penal servitude, with three
to the Kwantung Government be
years'grace: acquitted of the charge
not decreased.
of breach of trust.
Nakano, the defendant, arrived at
Arimitsu Nakano sentenced to 1
his post as Civil Administrator cn
year and 4 menths penal servitude.
Teijiro Obata senteneed to 1 year's
February 10, 1919, and assumed his
duties concerning the Opium Office.
penal servitude.
Sei Kajii senteneed to 1 year's
Acting on a suggestion made by
penal servitude.
Kajii, Kuwata, and the late Kam-
The six others. comprising Ryo- bara, the selling price of opium was
kichi Yendo (M.P.), Mizuho Yezaki,
reduced on purpose, with a view to
Saburo Fujii, Sanzo Kuwata,
clearing a profit for Kajii, Nakano,
Nisaburo Kuniyeda, and Takaaki
and the late Kambara.
Morigami, all acquitted.
(A) In collusion with Obata and
Kajii, between June 26, 1921, and
Civil Suit.
September 9, 1921, altogether 679.-
The following sums shall be paid
820 kuan or 5,665 lbs. of impcrt
opium and 15.35 kuan or 127.8 1bs.
to the National Treasury :—
Y.140,338.20 jointly by Nakano,
of crude opium were sold in fcrty
lcts for Y.414,182, in the name of
Obata, and Kajii:
Wei-changte to Fujii, enabling Fujii
Y.596,378.18" jointly by Nakano,
Obata, and the" late"Kambara (his
to gain the sum of Y.140,338, there-
by cutting down the receipts of the
son Kohei to take over the ebliga-
Kwantung Government to that ex-
tion);
tent.
Y.104,310.40 by Nakano.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
(B) Obata, in league with the Leased Territcry. However, so long
late Kambara, sold to the late Kam- as the same administrative measure
bara in the name of Tu-yuchieh in
has net been rescinded, its validity
63 lots between August 2, 1919,
cught to be reccgnized. Therefcre
and September 4, 1920, 813.790
the duties of Nakano, as above men-
kuan or 6781.5 lbs. of import Opium
tioned, may be regarded a; such as
and 785.52 kuan cr 6546 lbs. cf
are liable to censtitute a breach of
crude opium for Y.1,077,388. By
trust.
these deals, the late Kambara could
(11 Koga, while at the bead of the
realize a profit amounting to Y.406,-
supervising office, received a visit
978, to which extent the Kwantung
from Morigami about June, 1919,
Government had to lose in receipts.
who desired to sound Kcga's inten-
(C) Between Obata and the late
tions about the proposed establish-
Kambara, from February 12, 1920,
ment cf the Daiien Sharestcck and
to December 25, 1920, 1,045.44
Merchandise Exchange, and also to
kuan or 8,712 1bs. of import cpiun
enlist his support.
were sold to the late Kambara in
At that interview, Koga, under-
the nane of Pan-chungkuo, in 46
toek te give suitable facility when
lots. The late Kambara pocketed
the decuments concerned came to
the gain of Y.147,884, and, to that
hand. Morigami, on consultation
extent, the payments to the Kwan-
with supporters at Tckyo, Osaka,
tung Government were decreased.
and Dairen, filed a petition for es-
(D) Obata and the late Kambara
tablishing the Exchange with the
conspired to sell, in the name of
Kwantung Government through the
Sun-yutien. from Aug. 11, 1920, to
Dainen Civil Administration en July
December 6, 1920, in 18 lots, 14.82
21, 1919. 1n August, 1919, Mori-
kuan or 123.5 lbs. of crude opiumm,
gami went to Tokyo again, and
67 bexes of refined opium, and
called on Kega at his residence and
253.93 kuan or 2,116 lbs. of import
requested his assistance. Koga said
opium for Y.201,626. From these
in reply that, as the papers came
deals, the late Kambara cleared
under his notice, they would be over-
Y.56,516, by which amount the
hauled, and, as Morigami was about
carnings of the Kwantung Govern-
to leave the house, he was stopped.
ument were reduced.
and Koga said that in the event of
(E) Nakano, in league with
the pr posed establishument being
Obata, sold to Kuwata in the name
realized. he expected to be present-
of Ke-shaotsung between December
ed with 700-1,000 shares of the new
11, 1919, and December 21, 1920,
Exchange. thereby demanding a
in about a dozen lots, 87. 46 kuan er
bribe in a matter he wa- officially
728.7 Ibs. of import opium for
cencerned in.
Y.736, 792. These deals brought in
The cost of the publie trial shall
to Nakano a profit of Y. 108.310, by
be paid by Nakano. Obata. and
which amount the carnings of the
Kajii jointly.
Kwantung Gevernnnent were cut
down.
Civil Suit.
Obata joined the Opium Office
Reparations shall be paid to. the
staff through the interest of Nakano
Kwantung Government by the de-
on June 5. 1919. Obata played a
fendants (as above mentioned) to
part in the deals abeve mentioned
the extent of 5 per cent per annum
or in A-E: Kajii in B: and the late
from the respective dates to the date
Kambara in B-D.
of the present judgment rendered,
The offences committed by Nakano,
the cest regarding the suit to be
Obata. Kajii, and the late Kambara
borne severally and jointly among
indicated the pursuance of their in-
Nakano, Obata, Kajii, and Kani-
tentions.
bara.
It is true that the administrative
measure, by which the Kwantung
Government has specially designated
the Chinese Charity Institute as im-
porter and seller of opium and has
caused the Opium Office of the
same Institute to attend to the de-
tails. contravenes the provisions
concerning Opium in the Criminal
Code issued by Imperial Ordinance
for operation in the Kwantung

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No.379.E
Tokyo, arch 24, 1924.
t
FAR EASTERN AFFARS.
APR 11 1924
Department of State.
MnI
20
1924A
The nonorable
The Secretary of State,
vasiington.
Sir:
I have the honor to report that regulations for !
the control of the production, sale and use of opium
in Kwantung Leased Territory were approved at a recent
cabinet meeting, and that they will be promulgated in
the near future by imperial ordinance.
From statements which have appeared in the press,
it would appear that these regulations will closely
2
resemble those now in force in Teiwan. A survey will
be made of opium consumers, and those regarded as
confirmed addicts will be registered and supplied with
pass-booka

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
pass-books, upon the presentation of which they will
be able to purchase opium up to a specified quantity
fron dea ers licensed by the Government-General. As
the register of addicts will be closed upon the com-
pletion of the survey, it is hoped t.at with the death
or removal of those registered, the vice will disappear.
It should be stated that the proposed regulations
have been discussed ever since the disclosure of the
so-called Kwantung upiun Scandal in 192l. faking ed-
vantage of the lack of suitable regulations for the sale
of opium, the then Director of Civil Administretion in
the Government-General, one Nakeno, and Dr. Moga, the
Director of the bureau of Colonies at the time, permitted
a group of unsrupulous Japanese who had assumed the guise
of a charitable organizaticn, to monopolize the sale of
opium within the Leased Territcry. At the trial of these
two officials. it was brought cut that they had shared
in the enormous profits made through virtually illicit
sales. The Japanese public had resented and discredited
the ciarges directed at their nationals of promoting
the use by Chinese of narcotics; but, in view of the
evidence brought out in their own courts, of the con-
nivance even of their officials in the traffic, the press
has almost without exception urged the Government to
introduce remedial measures.
I shall not fail to transmit a translation of the
regulations as soon as they are published, as well as
to report as occasion offers upon other phases of the
traffic in narcotics.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant
byZh
eyrus E. Woods

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No.399-E
Tokyo, April 2, 1924.
43
894.C114Marci
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS.
APL 13 1924
Dep
3
MAY I 1924A
The Lonorable
The Secretsry of State,
ashington.
Sir:
Referring to the mbassy's despatch No. 379-E of
1/.
March 24, 1924, I have the honor to cnclose herewith a
translaticn of Imperial Ordinance No. 53, entitled
"Kwantung Province Opiun Hegulations" which was pro-
mulgated on March: 26, 1924.
Attention is drawn tc the last paragraph of the
Ordinance, in which it is provided that the date on
which the Regulations become effective is to be determined
by the Governor-General of Kwantung.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
(For the Ambassador)
Ieffurm laffeny
Enclosure:
Jelferson Caffeng
As stated.
counselor of Embassy.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
We hereby Approve and cause to be Promulgated,
The Kwantung Province Opium Regulations, which
have been examined by the Privy Council.
Privy Seal. Imperial Sign Manual.
Sign Manual of the Prince Regent.
March 26, 1924.
IMPERIAL ORDINANCE NO. 53.
IEL NTUNG PROVINCN OPIUI RCULA THONS.
Article 1. - The word "opium" as sed in these regulations
shall be defined to include raw opium, medicinal
opiates and opiated tablets.
irticle 2. - Opiun shall neither be smoked nor eaten. It is
provided, however, that the Governor-Cenerel of
Ivantung may, for the present, permit the con-
sumption of opium by opium aduicts in cases
where it is deemed .ecessary to give relief to
such aduicts.
Article 3. - Opiated tablets may neither be exported nor im-
ported.
Unless the permission of the Governor-Gen-
eral of Kwantung is obtained, the manufacture,
sale and purchase, iving and receiving, and pos-
session of opiated tab lets shall be unlawful.
Article 4. - Unless the permission of the Governor-General of
Kwantung is obtained, the manufacture, importa-
tion, exportation, sale and purchase, giving and
receiving, and possession of raw opium, medici-
nal opiates, and appliances for the consumption
of opium shall be unlawful. It is provided, how-
ever, that the foregoing provisions shall not
apply

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
apply in cases where in conformity with regu-
lations issued by the Govemor-General. medicinal
opiates are old, purchased, transferred or pos-
sessed by physicians, dentists, veterinary sur-
geons, pharmacists, and dealers in drugs; or
where medicinal opiates are administered by pre-
scriptions of physicians, lentists and veterin-
ary s rgeons; or where ..edic inal opiates are pos-
sessed through the fillin of such prescriptions.
Article 8. - Opium halls shall neither be established nor
maintained.
Article 6. - The cultivation o. poppy to be used in the mnu-
facture o opium shall ue unlawful.
Article 7. - In cases deemeu ecessury by the overnor-General
of Kwantung. ne may reguire tnose referred to in
paragruph 2 of rticle 3 and in rticle 4, wno
shall have obtained officiel permission, physi-
cians, dentists, veterinary surgeons, and deal-
ers in drugs, to submit reports to him.
The Governor-General of Kwantung nay, When
deemed necessary, cause the of icials concerned
to enter the factories, stores and other places
belonging to those contemplated in the foregoing
paragraph, ana to examine their raw materials,
produce, appliances, machinery, records and docu-
ments.
Article 8. - Those smoking or eating opium, Without obtaining
permission as requirod by the provisory clause
of Article 2, shall be punished by penal servi-
tude not to exceed three years, or by a fine of
not more than three thousand yen.
Artiole 9. - Those violating the provisions of paragraph 1,
of Artiole 3.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
of Article 3. and those violating the pro-
visions of paragraph 2 of Article 3 and of
rticle 4 by manuiccturing, emorting, im-
porting or selling opium or who nurcnase
opium for the purpose of sellin, and those
in possession of opiun, shall be punished
by penal servitude of more tnan six months
and less tnan seven years.
Those violating the provisions of
Article 4 by manuiacturing, exporting, im-
porting, or celli ap liances for the con-
sumption oi opiun, or who pure ese stch ap-
pliences for the urpose oi selliny, nd
t..ose in possession oi sucn applionces, sha ll
be punisheu by penal servitade of more than
t ree mon s and less than live years.
ith tne exeeption of those punished in
accord ce ith t e tovisions of the two fore-
coing clauses, those violating the provisions
of parerraon 2 or irticle  mnd oi Article 4
snall be punisncd oy penal cervitude of not
more thun one year or by a fine not to exceed
five hundred yen.
Article 10 - Those violating the provisions of Article 
shall be punished by penal servitude of morc
than six months ana less than seven years.
Article 1l - Those attempting to commit the crimes contem-
plated in the three preceding articles shall be
punished.
Article 12 - Those violating the provisions of Article 6
shall be punished by penal servitude of not
more than two years or by a fine of not more
than

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -
than one thousand yen.
Article 13. - Those ne lectin to suomit reports provided
for in are reoh 1 of rticle 7, or tha:e sub-
mitting false reports, und t ose reve tin or
hindering the making of examinations provided
by Paragraph 2 of the same Article, or who
seek to tvoiu such extlinations, or wo reply
falsely or fuil to reply to questions, simll
be fined not more than two hrndred yen.
Article 14. - Those provisions of ihapter 1i, Jection 2. of
the Criminal cole  ich ov n the He ulations
for the Conlact of Courts in wuntwnr Province
shall no longer apply.
Jupplementery Provieion.
The date on whih this Ordinance becomes
applicuble shall oe ueterined of the Governor-
General oi Mvantung.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
D.G.
Cf.
不
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0.
0℃4nri1 25, 1924.
Mr. Carr:
Mr. Hengstler:
I do not like to let the att ched
894
despatch go to file without bringing to
your attention the "lemorandum for the
2
Department" affixed thereto by Consul
1
General Stewart. In justice to a younster
who appears to be doing loyally nd well
his duty in churge o: the Jonsul: te ut
n
Dairen. I think it should be pointed out
that the Coneul General's querulous notu-
tion is neither necessary nor well rounded.
With a zeal thut cortainly does net de-
9
serve reprobation, sturveon evidentl: be-
2
gan tranelatine the new et  soen as it
2
appeared in the local press. Be fore he
A
got round to enelcsin it  the pen rt-
力
ment, the necess ry romul ution by the
Throne had taken pluee, but my c my not
have been published in the lepere,
for the reason thet promul tion, howevor
legally necessury, is in nr etico a mere
formality in the cuse c routine mattere
like this which have cnce nassed the
Privy Couneil. Sturgeon was quite war-
ranted in reporting the m tter as he did.
I cannot divine the Consul General's
motive for the cril:e sn that he mn es,
from the viewnoint c" a shcel o analese
thought whi ch insiets th t all nowers and
functions of government are derived frem
the

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
will of the Emperor. This view is dis-
notly orthodox, but as misle ding as the
ssumption that the King of England chooses
his cabinet by royal prerogative. Since
the Consul Generul hus for no ap rent
reason made un isrue with Vice Jonrul
Sturgeon about the lutler': fanil rity
with Japanese legi:lative processes, it
would be unfair to Stur-eon to refrain
from notin- that he demoustrates a more
practical working knowledge of how these
things really go in Japan than does the
Consul General who takes him to task.
1~.
(2)
Mac1/gmm

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPT. OF STATE
OCT 22 1024
90.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manahuria, Marah 31, 1924.
30.
DEPT. OF STATE
SUBJECT :
KWANTUNG LEASED TERRF
B OPIUM AGT
OCT 22
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS.
THE HONORABLE
APR 23 1924
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
Department of State
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith, aa of interest to
the Department, the text of a new opium aot whiah is to become
effeotive for the Kwantung Leased Territory in the near future
7324A
3
and whiah was passed by the Privy Counoil of the Japanese
Government on Marah 15, 1924. Efforts have been made to learn
the date upon whioh the new law will become effective, but as
ces
894c.114.
this rests wi th the Governor of the Territory the date has
NX BUR
apparently not been decided upon. It is quite probable that
as the enforoement of the new opium law, not unlike other prohi-
bition measures, will necessitate special effortsbeing put
forth by the looal auhtoritios, it will not go into effeot
until all is in readiness to meet the new problome whioh may
be expeoted to arise.
However, a statement attributed to the Governor by the
local papers under Marah 29, 1924, throws further interpreta-
tive light upon the spirit and soope of the New Aot. From
this statement it 1s seen that care has been exeroised to en-
ure that the present law does not interfere with underatand-
ings oontraoted in any existing opium treaties; that it is
intended to striotly prevent the spread of the opium habit;
and

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
and while a limited traffio in opium will be permitted for the
sake of those who have already become slaves to the opium
habit, suah sales or transfers as are made for this purpose
will be oarefully restrioted to the point of necessity by
the Government. The Governor also emphasizes the firm in-
tontion of the Kwantung Government to give full effeot to
the spirit and letter of the present Aot.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Amertoan Vice Consul in Charge.
Enclosure: Text of Opium Act.
811.4

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
NEW
OPIU
ACT.
ITS
CHIEF
FEATURES.
(From THE MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS of arch 18, 1924).
As already reported, the Kwantung Leased Territory
Opium lot was passed by the Privy Council on the l5th
instant, as submitted by the Special Comaittee, and is
ready for publication shortly.
The above Act inoludes the following:
1. By "Opiun" aro meant Crude Opiun, Refined Opium,
and ledicinal Opiun.
2. No one shall smoke oriun, except suoh confirned
smokers as have been considered to be in need of periodical
doses, and are permitted by the Governor of wentung for
the time being.
3. No Refined Opiun shall be exported or imported.
No refined Opiu. can be manuf ctured, sold or
bought, transferred i possession, owned. or held in
possession.
4. No Crude Opiun or Medicinal Opiun or Opiun smoking
paraphernalia shall be manufactured, sold, or bought, trans-
ferred in possession, or owned, or held in possession with-
out permission of the Governor of wantung.
Exceptions
are made of cases in which physicians, dentists, vetorinary
surgeons, pharmaoeutists, or druggists deal in, or own, or
hold in possession Medicinal Opiun, und of cases, in which
Modicinal Opium is transferred in possession, or owned, or
held in possession through a prescription by physicians,
dentists, or veterinary surgeons.
5. No Opium-House shall be founded or maintained.
6. No poppies shall be grown with the objoct of
manufaoturing

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
manufaoturing opiun.
7. The Governor of wantung may cause those who
have received permission as mentioned in (3) and (4), or
a physioian, a dentist, a veterinary surgeon, a pharmaceutist,
or a druggist to send in a report, whenever deemed necessary.
The Govermor of Kwantung may cause any faotory,
or shop, or elsewhere to be visited by offioials concerned
for the inspeotion of raw materials, manufactures, instru-
ments, maohines, books, doouments, etc.
8. Any one moking opium without permission is liable
to a penal servitude of less than 3 years or a fine of less
than Yen 3,000.
9. Any one guilty of manufacture, export, import, sale
or purohese with the object of selling, or possession of
opium in violation of the provisions of Clause 1, (3) or
Clause 2 (3), or (4) is ligble to a penal servitude of over
6 months and under 7 years.
Any one guilty of manufacturing, exporting, im-
porting, selling, or buying with the objeot of selling, or
holding in possession, opiun-smoking paraphernalia, in
violation of the provisions of (4) is liable to a penal
servitude of over 3 months, and under 5 yeers. In cases
other then provided for above, in whioh Clause 2, (3) or
(4) has been violeted, the offender is liable to a penal
servitude of less than 1 yecr or & fine of less than
Yen 500.
10. Any violation against (5) is liable to & penal
servitude of over 6 months and under 7 years.
11. The offences mentioned in (8), (9), and (10).
even not accomplished, shall be punished.
18.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
12. A violation gainst (6) 1s lieble to a penal
servitude of less than 2 yerrs or a fine of less then
Yen 1.000.
13. Any one, who has failed to send the report
according to Cl-use 1, (7), without good cause, or any
one, who hes made a false report, or who hes refused,
or interferred with, or evaded, the inspeotion men-
tioned in Clause 2, (7), or ny one, who hes failed to
unswer the queatione, or hs mede u false statement, is
liable to  fine of less than Yen 200.
14. The provisions of Seotion 14, Chapter 2, of the
Criminal Code, as mentioned in the wentung Judicial Pro-
ceedings Act, shall not spply.
SUPPLELENTARY
REGULATIONS
The date of operetion of the present ct shall be
fixed by the Governor of wontung.
非

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
8
)
MEMORANDUM FOR THE DEPARTMENT.
Mr. Sturgeon's opening sentence reveals that he is
not as familiar as he might be with Japanese legislative
processes, in that he states the Kwantung Government
Opium Act was "passed" by the Privy Council on March
15, 1924. The action of the Privy Council, which con-
sisted in approving the bill, was merely incidental, as
the Throne was under no constitutional obligation to
I.H.
refer the bill to that body. The essential act was the
promulgation of the Ordinance, which took place on
894C.114
March 26, 1924, under the Imperial Sign Manual and with
the countersignature of the Prime 'inister.
NatainnS
American Consulate General,
Tokyo, Japan.
Nathaniel B. Stewart,
April 5, 1924
American Consul eneral

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.91)
April 50, 1924.
Astention: Colonel L. 6. Mutt.
The Seoretary of State presents hia complimente to
tme Honorable the Seuretary of the Treasury and has the
honor to enolose herewith for his information copies of
89
the follewing dosputohes regarding regulations for the
control of the traffic in habit-forming druge in the
Japaneme Leaued Territory oi Kwanuung:
No. 399-E, April 2, with encloaure, from 2okyo;
No. 90, March 31, with enolosure, from Dairen.
Enclosnres:
As stated.
100
April 28,1986

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.91)
April 30, 1924
aply rofor to
The Seoretary of State presents hie complimente to
the Bonorable the Seoretary of Commerce and hes the
honor to enclose herewith for hie information copies of
the following despatchoe regarding regulations for the
control of the traffio in habit-foming Aruge in the
Japanese Leaeed Territory of Kwantung:
No. 99-F, April 2, with enoloaure, from Tokyo;
No. 90, Maroh 31, with encloeure, from Dairen.
H
Enoloaures:
As stated.
BGO

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.89)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Karui zawa, u st 19. 1924.
No.613-E
fil
livisier f
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS.
StP 13 1924
24
8440.114
Na
The onorble
SEP 22924A
FLED
me Jecret ry o it.te,
iushin ton.
Sir:
with reference to revioas re ort, and ith emmecicl
8940.114 1V/3
9
refereice to my des tc Mo. J9 -), o1 april 2, 1924, con-
cerning regulations fo. te control oi the opiun treific
in the leased ter itory o. wantun, I  ve the honor to
report tht the Jnese t orities ve noced at
they ropose to ut the new Opiwn ct into ef ect on the
first of Jeptember next in tne leased torritory of ventung.
I have the honor to be, sir,
Your obedient servnt,
Lffuon Ragfary
Jetferson Caffery.
Carge d'ffaires a. i.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
deptember 20, 1924
The Secretary of State presents his compliments to
the Monerable the Seeretary of Commerce and has the
hemer te emelese Herewith fer his infermation a copy of
despatah Me. Gés- of August 19, 1924, from the American
Embasay at Tekye, regarding regalatione for the sontrol
f the epimm traffie in the Leased Territery of Kwantung.
Bmolosurel
As stated.
00

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
12
DEPT- OF STATE
mGiven +A
OCT 16 1924
104.
CI
Division of
FAMERICANCONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, September 5, 1924.
Ootober 1
124
SUBJECT: REGULATIONS FOR THE ENFORCELENT OF THE KWANTUNG
LEASED TERRITORY OPIUM ACT.
1-1066
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS.
THE HONORABLE
051 9 1924
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Pepartmont  Stao
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
29014 ma/4
Supplementing my despatoh No. 90, dated March Z1, 1924,
transmittin the text of a new Opiun Act which took effect in
OCT 211924 A
FUD
the Kwantung Leased Territory under d&te of September 1, 1924,
I have the honor to forward herewith a translation of the
official re ulations promulgated by the Kwentung Government
for the purpose of administering the new Act. The regulations
894
in question were promulgated under Ordinunce No. 50, of the
Kwantung Government.
2
An effort has been made by this office to secure additional
information concerning the method or plan of enforcement of the
regulations covering the Act in question, but et the present
time little or no informttion of this character is available.
It is believed that many difficulties will attend the enforcement
of the new Opiun Aot, however, as the prohibition or restriction
of the use of opium will affeot a l&rge number of Chinese of
In
this city who have become habitual users of the drug.
addition, there remains the question, as in many other prohibi-
tion measures, of controlling the trade in opium, by which
another relatively large group of individuals normally profit.
The

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The number of Chinese in this Territory, who will be
chiefly affected by the above Act, anounts to approximately
89,882.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Anerican Vice Consul in Charge.
Enclosure: Regulations regarding Opiua Act.
811.4

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
REGULATIONS POR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE KWANTUNG
LEASED
TERRITORY
OPIUM AOT.
Art. 1. A person desiring permission to smoke opium,
shall mame written applioation to the Governor
of the Kwantung Leased Territory, stating his
place of registration, address, name, age, and
profession.
Art. 2. When the Governor receives applioations in
accordance with the above article, permission
to use opium will only be granted to Chinese
who are considered opium viotims by designated
physioians.
Art. 3.
When permission to use opium has been granted
in aooordanoe with the preceding artiole, the
amount whioh may be smoked in any one day will
be set forth in a perait furnished the viotim.
The Governor shall cause special and periodi-
cal medioal examination to be made of persons
granted permission to smoke opium, and may
change the quantity allowed in the permit, or
oancel the permit.
Art. 4.
Persons losing their smoking permit must apply
for a new one.
Art. 5. Licensed opium smokers may purohase opium and
smoking utensils. Persons holding amoking permits
may purchase only a quantaty of opium at one time
sufficient for a period of ten days, unless per-
mission be obtained from the competent police
authorities on mccount of traveling or other
unavoidable ciroumstanoes.
Licensed

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
Lioensed opium smokers may not have in their
possession more than tha amount presoribed in
the preceding paragraph.
Art. 6. Licensed opium smokers may not purchase either
opium or smoking utensils without presenting a
permit.
Art. 7. Lioensed opium smokers will not be permitted
to make purohases of opium or smoking utensils
from other than lioensed opium retailers.
Art. 8.
Persons desiring to sell opium must apply to
the Governor for a permit, giving their place
of registration, permanent address, name, age,
place of business, and career. In case of
ohanging the place of business, establishing a
branch or agenoy, the forogoing procedure must
also be observed.
When applicant is a juridical person, its name,
looation of prinoipal office, articles of asso-
ciation, names and addresses of representatives,
must be inoluded in the application.
Art. 9. Permons licensed in aooordance with the foregoing
artiole will be permitted to import or manufacture
opium.
Art. 10. Only one salesman will be permitted under the
forogoing artiole.
Art. ll. An opium salesman will not be permitted to sell
orude or refined opium, or opium grease, to per-
sons other than licensed opium retailers and
pharmacists.
Art. 12. 

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
purposes only to druggists designated by the
Kwantung Government.
In the oase of physioians, dentists, veteri-
narians, and pharmaoists, desiring to obtain
opium, certifioates must be obtained from the
competent police authorities and application
made to a designated druggist, provided, how-
ever, that a oertificate will not be required
for an amount less than 25 grams used for medi-
cal purposes in a single year.
Art. 13.
Except in accordance with the foregoing pro-
oedure, no opium may be sold for medioal purposes
unless the purohaser possess a presoription from
a dootor, dentist, or veterinary.
Art. 14. Importations of opium or smoking utensils through
ports other than Dairen, will not be permitted.
Art. 15. The kind and quantity of opium to be imported
over a fixed period by the dealers in opium shall
be determined by the Governor of Kwantung.
For importation of opium, dealers must make
applioation covering each shipment to the Governor
of the Territory stating kind, quantity, purpose,
port of shipment, address and name of import
(oustoms) broker and route of importation.
When opium is imported in accordance with the
above, inspeotion shall be made by the officials
oonoerned.
Art. 16. Tho

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Art. 16. The quantity and prioe of opium to be sold by
the dealer ahall be determined by the Governor.
Art. 17. Dealers in opium mmst prepare account books
for the entry of receipts and deliveries of opium.
The account books above mentioned must be pre-
served for 10 years.
Art. 18. Dealers in opiun must report to the Governor of
Kwantung, before the l0th of every month, the re-
ceipt and delivery of opium for the preceding
month.
Art. 19.
▲ person wishing to retail opiun must apply to
the Governor of Kwantung for permission stating
his plaoe of registration, residenoe address,
name, age, profession, place of business, and
career. The same procedure shall apply when
he intonds to ohange his bus iness place.
Art. 20. Persons granted permission prescribed in the
preceding artioles may manufacture or import
opium grease, and smoking utensils.
Art. 21.
When a retailer of opium ohanges his plade of
rogistration, residence, or name, or closes his
business, or dies, a report must be made to the
Governor within l0 days by himself or family.
Art. 22. No retailer of opium will be allowed to pur-
ohase opium from any person other than a dealer.
Art. 23. No retailer of opium will be allowed to sell
opium or smoking utensils, except to licensed
smokers

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
smokers who present their permits.
Art. 24. No retailer of opium will be allowed to sell
more than the quantity of opium presoribed in
Artiole 5.
Art. 25. Retailers and druggists designated to sell
opium, must keep aocount books showing purohases
and sales of opium and smoking utonsils.
In the book shoving purohases, the kind, quan-
tity, value, and date of purohases of opium and
smoking utensils must be olearly entered each
time.
In the book of sales, the kind, quantity, value,
date, of material sold, together with name and
age of purchasers, and other necessary items re-
quired by the Governor of the Territory, shall
be olearly entered.
Art. 26.
Retailers and druggists designated to sell opium
must roport to the competent police authorities
regarding the receipt and delivery of opium and
smoking utenails, before the 5th of each month.
for the preoeding month.
Art. 27. Dealers, retailers, and druggists, designated
to handle opium, must comply with all provisions
of the Governor regarding their bus iness.
Art. 28. Persons violating the 2nd and 3rd olauses of
Artiole 5, Artioles 22, 23, 24, 25, or provi-
the
sions of/kwantung Government mentioned in
Artioles

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
- -
Artiolos 15 and 16, shall be sentenoed to penal
servitude for not more than one year or fined
not more than 200 yon. A like penalty shall
be imposed on persons guilty of lending, or
giving a permit to smoke opium to a seoond party.
▲rt. 29.
 Persons violating Artioles 17, 21 and 25 shall
be fined not more than 100 yen.
Art. 30.
If the dealer or retailer of opium is a minor
or an inoompetent person these penal regulations
shall apply to his legal representative.
Art. 3l. If a representative, house head, family,
assooiate, or other employee of a dealer, or re-
tailer of opium violate these regulations the
latter will be held responaible.
Art. 32. If the representative or other employee of
juridical person violate these regulations the
penalty shall apply to the said juridical per-
son.
In oase a juridical person is to be punishod,
the representative of such person shall be the
defendant.
are
Art. 33.
When dealers or retailers of opium/found guilty
of orime or improper conduot in connection with
their bus iness, suoh bus iness may be suspended and
the license of the parties conoerned withdrawn.
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
These regulstions ahall come into force on the same
date

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
date as the onforcement of the Opiun Law of the Kwan-
tung Leased Territory.
The present dealers and licensed opium retailers
who were appointed before the enforcement of these
regulations shall be considered as dealers and re-
tailers of opiun within the meaning of these re-
gulations.
NOTE:
*Translated from the OFFICIAL GAZETTE No. 935
of the Kwantung Government.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.87)
October 15 1924
he Secretery of State presente his compliments to
中
the Esnerable the Secretary of Commeree and has the
homer to emelose herewith for his information a copy ef
No. 104 of September 6, l924, with its enolasure,
from the Amerioan Consul Jn Charge at Dairen, vegarding
regulations for thetpmforeament of the Kwantung Leased
Territery Opim Lst.
Rmelesure:
às stated.
2G0
A-20，
0ct.15.1924

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.85)
Oetober 15 19a
Astemtiomi Celomel L. G. Must.
She Seeretery ef State presente his complimente te
Komerable the Seeretary of the Treasury and hes the
mr se emelese herevith fer hie infermetiem a eogy d
Sespateh Ne. l0e ef Septomber 6, 1924, with its emelesase
fres the imevioam Gensal in Oharge et Dairen, regarding
wegalstions for the enforeement of the Iwentung Leased
Terrisery Oyimm Aote
894C.114
Enolosurs:
As stated.
300
A=20
0ct.15.1924

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.94)
4E
FEDERAL NARCOTICS CONTROL BOARD
TARY OF STATE
ECRETARY OF THE TREASURY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
ECRETARY OF COMMERCE
December 15, 1924.
X BUREAU
YA FURO
192
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
Department of State
Sir:
44016
I have the honor to ackmowledge receint of your letter
DEC 1924A
of October 16, 1924. (FE - 293.114/512), transmitting a copy
FUn
of despatch No. 104 o: Sentember 5. 1924, wi th its inclosure,
from the American Consul in Charge at Dairen, regarding regu-
lations for the enforcenent of the Kwantun; Leased Territory
Opium Act.
Acknowledgment of this letter was delayed for the reason
that it was inadvertently misrouted in the Treasury Denartment.
Respectfully,
Actine Secretary.
Federal Narcotics Control Board.
MVL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
nirtzion of
262045
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS,
NCV 13 1927
Actc
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Department of State.
No. 256.
Dairan, Manchuria, ootober 22, 1927.
1927
Subject:
REGULATTON-FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTICS
IN KWANTUNG LEASED TERRITORY -
TRANSITSSI ON OF COPY.
Copipe hereof to be sent Nayts hlev of
The Honorable
The Treasmry
Copy also to.
Commerce
844C.114
The Seoretary of State,
and
Washington, D. c. pol
E9.c
1927 
Sir:-
I have the honor to transmit herewith, as of interest
to the Department, a translation in quintuplicate, of Kwan-
NOV1 7 1927
tung Government Regulation No. 54, which contains provisions
for the control of narcotics in the wantung Leased Territory.
The new regulation cancels and takes the place of wan
tung Government Regulation No. 5, of 191s, and compared with
this regulation is considerably more coaprehensive. In
particular the new regulation gives indication that a more
1527
rigid control of traffic in narcotics is being planned by
the Kwantung Government.
A shifting of authority and re
sponsibility from the various police departments in the
Territory to the Kwantung Government is another feature of
the new regulation.
 Articles three and four provide for
direct Governmental control of importing and exporting of
narcotics, and expressly stipulate that application for
permission to conduct such business must be made to the
Governor of the Territory, and that full details concern-
ing proposed transactions are to be furnished therein.
The new Regulation went into force on October 1, 1927,
and

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
and the Consulate is now investigating its effect upon the
trade in narcotios. A supplemental report will be sub-
mitted at a later date giving the result of these investi-
gations.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
D. STUREON.
Ameriean onsul
Eno losure :
Translation of wantung Government
Regulation No. 54.
811.4
LDS:L
In quintuplioate to Department
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peking.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
RANSLATION
KWANTUNG GOVERNLENT REGULATION NO. 54
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1927.
REGULATI ON FOR THE CONTROL OF NARCOTICS
Art. I. Drugs considered as narcotios in this re-
gulation are as stated below:
Morphia, cooain, and their salts or derivatives,
or derivative salts, or any other articles
containing these drugs.
(2) Drugs which have effects similar to those pre-
viously mentioned and designated by the
Governor.
Art. II. The manufacture of narcotics is not permiss-
ible without special authorization of the Governor.
Art. III. Persons desiring to import narcotics should
apply for permission of the Goveruer, stating details as
given below.
(1)
Nane of articles and quantity
(2)
Lethod of traneportstion and route
(3)
ipproximate date of importetion
(4)
Furpose
(5)
Name and address of shipper
In case of change in items, suen change must
be reported and per ission for correcti on obtained.
Changes in arrival dates when not exceeding thirty
days are excepted.
Art. IV. Persons desiring to export narcotics must
apply to the Governor for permission, giving the following
information:
(1)
Name of article and quentity
(2)
Method of transportation and route
(3)
Approximate date of exportation
(4)
Name and address of consignee
(5)
Certification that the said consignee imports
in accordance with the proper formalities.
In

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
In oase of ohange in items, suoh ohange must
be reported and permission for correotion obtained.
Changes in despatoh dates when not exoeeding thirty
days are excepted.
Art. V. In case narcotios are imported or exported
under the provision previously mentioned, the Chief of
Police should be advised regerding the name and quantity
of the articles handled within five days.
Art. VI. Selling, buying, delivery, and possession
of narootios is prohibited except with the permission of
the Governor, provided, however, that selling buying, de-
livery, and possession of narcotics by doctors, dêntists,
veterinary surgeons, druggists, or dealers in chemicals
under proper formalities, and transfer, or possession of
narootios by presoription of doctors, dentists, or ve-
terinary surgeons, be excepted.
Art. VII. With reference to deliver. of narcotics, a
ledger in stipulated forn is to be prepared, showing article,
quantity, purpose, and date of delivery, and also name,
address, and occupation of persons to whon delivsred.
The
ledger is to be preserved for three years from the date of
last entry. It is provided, however, that in case of delivery
under presoription of doctors, dentists or veterinary surgeons,
the foregoing does not apply.
Officers may, in case of ne-
cessity, examine the ledger and goods mentioned above.
Art. VIII. Persons violating provisions in Art. II and
IV will be punished by imprisonment of not exoeeding one
year or a fine not exoeeding Yen 200.00.
Art. IX. Persons violating provisions in Art. V and
VII or guilty of making false declarations or statements, or
who refuse to allow examination of the said ledger or goods
in

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.87)
- 3 -
in question will be punished ith imprison ent not exoeeding
three months or  :ine ot exc: i on loo.00
Art. A. Landing or trunssni ument of nareotios wil be
regarded as inporting or exportin in the urplication of
these regulations.
Art. XI. In case of viol tio. f trese  latlons by
employees, or nemoere o f ilies, cof oetors, dentists,
veterinary surgeous, or che lie1 de l, these individuals
will be held responsible, hetner u ch viol tion is done
under their instrvetions or ot.
art. k.n e evolvi  in
theee roiri ioe
CF
These re 1 i ms wi boe o eretive  m ater
Octover 1, 1937.
Kvantung tov rent o 1 ton o. o of luls is hereby
cancelled.
The i uportati n or mr oties otner tnen morpmine, and
cocain, and their slts,  hien hy ve seen sontracted for
prior to the pro ul tion of these re ul ti it,  ith this
fact duly certified, and ure in tr nuit, vill be pernitted
notwithst nding the provisions cont: ined in Article III.
Persons licensed to manufacture or i apart nureotios
prior to these rogrlo tions taking effeot shall be con-
sidered as licensed hereunder.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.92)
262982
ER
AMBRICAN CONSULATE
No. 
Coplep hereo to be sont ito Cusaurce
X
8940.114
Pol1 ey Dep
894.114Na
GMM.
Subjeot:
REGULATION FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTICS
IN THE KWANTUNG LEASED TERRITORY.
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
1
1927
Sir:
I have the honor to report herein, supplemental to the
Consulate's despatch No. 256, dated 0otober 22, 1927 (File
No. 8ll.4), further information and opinion whioh has been
obtained with reference to the scope and effeot of the new
regulation for the control of narootics in the Kwantung
Leased Territory. Sufficient time has not elapsed to de-
termine its practical effeotiveness, but from investigations
made I have been able to learn something of what is expected
of it by Government authorities, and also how it is regarded
by certain seotions of the publio.
In the first place, as was pointed out in the Consulate's
despatoh mentioned above, the new regulation is markedly more
eomprehensive than the one it cancels, appearing to effeet-
ually cever practioally all dangerous, habit forming drugs,
whereas under the old regulation morphine and cocain were
the only drugs for whioh an import or export permit was re-
qaired. Consoquently, it was recently brought to light,
when the mathorities were investigating the drug business
ef two locel British firms, that such drugs as heroin,
perenin.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
● 2 -
peronin, and bensolin, could be imported without permits,
and the latter, it was found, was being imported in large
quantities. The Government authorities were, I am con-
fidentially informed, considerably embarrassed to find that
the regulation then in foroe was entirely inadequate for the
control of the trade in various narootios. The new regula-
tion whioh has been reported is the result of a prompt re-
vision.
The authorities of the Kwantung Government believe that
the new Regulation will effectively control, although not
eliminating, trade in dangerous narcotics. However, a con-
siderable body of oritical publio opinion, so far as any has
developed with respeot to this sabjeot, is skeptioal concern-
ing the results of the new Regulation. The reason for this
is the comparatively light fine imposed for its infringement,
and if & prison sentence, the probability that it would be
suspended in many cases. Moreover, it is held by some of
those who have given considerable study to the matter that
it can hardly be expected that a small fine, or even a pro-
speotive short prison sentence - with a strong probability
that it will not have to be served, will deter firms or in-
dividuals who are able to make small fortunes out of the
traffio in the drugs affeoted.
The opinion of this office, while recognising consider-
able foroe in the aforementioned argument, is that local
Government authorities, muoh humiliated because of their in-
ability to bring certain firms to account for their drug
trade under the old Regulation, are very likely to show a
stronger hend under the present rather comprehensive Regu-
lation. Although the penalties imposed for infringement

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
of the new Regulation are admittedly small, the loss of
prestige in the publio eye by a firm or individual con-
vioted of illioit drug traffio would be considerable.
This, it is believed, can be more safely relied upon than
moderate fines as a restraining faotor in the drug traffio.
The authorities, therefore, appear to have greatly improved
their position from this standpoint at least. Firms of
fairly good reputation undoubtedly realize this, and while
business depression has been a feotor in causing some of
them to engage in questionable transaotions, they are never-
theless now faced with the prospeot of continuing them only
at the risk of their reputation and standing in the business
commanity. The possible losses in this direction to a firm
handling foreign agenoies would doubtless be the greatest.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
American Consul.
811.4
.LDB:L
In quintuplioate to Department
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Gopy to Legation, Peking.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.89)
632
October 28. 1929
Mawin L. Neville, Bsqaire,
894c.114-
Amerisam Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokye, Japan.
sirl
In tmhe JAPAN WENKLY CHRONIOLE of August 29, 1929,
there appeared, on page 231 under the heading "Anti-
Opi ar in Manohuria" a reference to a report from
the Mational Anti-Opium Assooiation of China, in the
sourse of whieh it was stated that "a tremendous amount
of arags, far in excess of Chine's legitimate requirements.
has been anmmally turned out by a Japanese manufacturing
factory in Port Arthur.
396
The Department desires to receive any information
whisk you may be able to obtain, either in Tokyo or
through the Censulate in Dairen, cencerning the authentio-
ity ef this repert. If the repert is correet, the Depart
mens weald be interested in knowing the nature and qeants
heputured.
Tour ebedient srvt.
Fer the Sesveta
William R. Castle, Jr.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.93)
PM RECD
FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, Deoember 18, 1929.
No. 1373
JA1-3 20
Instruction
drafted to it.
131/50 2nF
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
cbruary 8 1930.
JAN A 1930
Department of State
894e114 Narc
Ja
01
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
893.114 harcothco
Washington.
/81
Sir:
B
FILED
Department's 1nstruction No. 632 of October 28, 1929, ro-
questing information regarding the report in the JAPAN
1930
WEEKLY CHRONICLK of August 29, 1929, to the effeot that
"a tremendous amount of drugs, far in exoess of China's
legitimate requirements, has been annually turned out by
a Japanese manufaoturing faotory in Port Arthur".
At

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
At my direction, Mr. Langdon, the Consul at Dairen,
inquired of the Kwantung Government Opium Monopoly Bureau
whether there was any establishment in Port Arthur or
elsewhere in the Leased Territory manufacturing or
licensed to manufacture narcotic drugs.
He was informed
that the only establishment of this kind is the Monopoly
Bureau's own laboratory in Dairen where crude opium is
prepared for sale to licensed addicts. It is believed,
therefore, that the "Japanese drug manufacturing faotory
in Port Arthur" mentioned in the third paragraph of the
alleged petition of the Manohurian branch of the National
Anti-Opium Association of China to the League of Nations
has reference to the Monopoly Bureau's plant in Dairen.
In this connection the attention of the Department
is invited to Mr. Langdon's despatch to the Embassy of
December 9, 1929, a copy of which was sent to the Depart-
ment.
This despatch contains a copy in translation of
a historical sketch of the opium situation in the Kwantung
Leased Territory since the beginning of Japanese rule,
whioh appears 1n the MANCHURIA-MONGOLIA YEAR BOOK (MANMO
NENKWAN) for l930, and the sentence of a judge given in
a sensational publio trial in l922 of the Civil Administra-
tor of Dairen and a group of private individuals who had
defrauded the Kwantung Government of its opium revenue, as
well as statistios which were brought out in the trial
showing the volume of business and the soale of profits.
Mr. Langdon also enolosed with his despatoh, translations of
the Kwantung Opium Law, the Ordinanoe Creating the Opium
Monopoly Bureau, and the Regulations for Enforoement of
tho

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
the Kwantung Opium Law.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Ehun. t nnth
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Copy to Consulate, Dairen

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.90)
February B. 1950.
2
Ameriean Ambasmedor,
894c.114-
The Asting Secrotary of State refors to despatch
Jos 12ts, of December 18, 1929, from the American Embassy
at Takye and informs the Ambassador that the Department
happrently not received a copy of the despatch of
Ma
 Semsal at Dairen, cencerning the control of the traf-
fim in nareetie &rugs in the Iwantung Leased Territory.
The Asting Secretary of State desires that the Am-
bassmder take steps to see that five copies of the des-
patch and of its enclosures be sent to the Department.
llBereeties10
Smax
A true copy of
the signed orig-

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.93)
For the Files of the Commercial Office
AMERICAN COMBULAR SERVICE
rieem Cemsulate, Dairen, Mamehuria, Jame 23, 1950.
1980
0017 31
Bureay
UNVED
Jeet:
Marootio Traffio Notes.
JUL 31 1930
a
Dept. of State
Division of
8
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
6
Edwin Slle, Esquire,
JUL 13 1930
4
C
American Embassy,
4
Tokyo, Japan.
-NARCOT
sir:
(1) Extonsive Smuggling Plot Detected.
C
As of possible interest to the Embassy, I have
S
the honor to transmit herewith copy of an article
2
which appeared in the MANCiHURIA DAILY NEWS, Dairen,
of June 4, l930, in regard to extensive narootie
uggling operations recently discovered by the Dairen
poliee. It is believed that the article may also be
of interest to our narcutic control auihorities on
account of the mention of numerous European suppliers
of dangerons drugs.
It is often heard among foreign bankers and other
well-infurmed persons here that more smuggling of mar-
eoties gees on in Dairen then in other place in the
Far East. Pereigm bembers state that it is common
FILED
eesurrense fer mimpressive strangers, Russien useally,
to mmkk tate their effice and epen large sight credits
1930
in faver ef fime in Barepe for no apperent beme fide
busteess temeesties. It is comen alse for lesel

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.92)
● 8 .
busimess men to brand other residents as narootic
amgglers, and it is a fact that several members of
Dairem's fereign seeial set are on the Geaeva black-
1108.
Assuming that a like proportion of the large
Japamse trading body is engaged in this 1llieit
traffie - amd there is no reason to suppose it is
less, simee the temptation is the sume and the love
of gain equally strong in Japanese and Europeans -
the extent of narootics handlud in Dairen eash year
must be enormous. It is noted in the case under
diseussion thet some prominent local Japanese firms
and individuals are involved. Two firms mentioned,
Iatoumshi and Inuiu, are the leading wholesale and
retail druggists in Dairen, and are enrolled on our
Depertment of Commeroe lists of foreign importers
through world Trade Direotory reports submitted by
this ofrioe.
Imperting and geographical conditions in Dairen
gemerally favor Dairen es a narootio eatrepot. In
the first plase, it is easier to impert narecties
inte Dairem tham imto other China coast port and,
sccemdly, Bairen is conveniently situated with re-
spess te impertant mariets like Shanghal, Tientsin,
matmtem, ete.. Cargo imported fer sensmption in the
Bestune Leased Territery is ast examiaed by the Custems
anttesities euing to the Tesritery's free seme states.
an snpertee messiy mmies lantineg applicatien to the

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.91)
● 8 -
direet to the addreasee without any rormality. It
ls omiy whm saspiciem attaohes to the impertation
that pellee emmmimatiom takes plase. Beme 400,000
teme of fereige earge are released anmually to in-
perters in Dairen under landing epplication, viz.,
without examination; and it will readily be appre-
olated how difficult it must be for the police to
detect,without previous intelligenoe, consigmments
of nareeties smggled in this large volume of im-
ports.
Having imported his stoek, it is even easier for
the drug trafriaker to distribute it. There is no
Custes examination of passengers leaving Dairen by
mea, and it is only necessary to run the gauntlet of
Castoms inspeetors on landing at Shanghal or Tientsin.
Leaving Dairen by truin for the North, a passenger is
suppooed to present his baggage at the customs office
in the Dairem Station for examination, but as Customs
efrisers do not fumotion openly outside of this little
effiee, either on the trains or ou the statiou plat-
fem, bourding a train without examination would appear
to be a very staple atter.
(B) state ef Opim Bus tmess La Leased Territery.
Ascerding to trade statisties publisbed by the
Raimm Custem Esuse Imperts of opium (all Persian)
ante Bairem in 19se for consuptiem in the Leased
Tesmitmry tetalled 141, 404 Ibs., valued at Haikmes
Suste L,s0e,sse (t007,s00). Imperts for the rirst
 the et the ememe yeer were nly 1be. 16,.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
The fellowing 1tems in the Kwantung Government
Budget fer the year ended March 31, 1930, may be of
interest in this connaction:
"Kwantung Covernment pecial ccount - rdinary Revenue
Ineeme from State, Business (perations and Property
(Opium) Monopoly Buroau Revenue
(estimated).
. Yon 2,657.500
Ordinary Expendi tures ((pium)
Monopoly Bureau
Salaries of staff
Yon
37,890
Operating Expenses
1.309.603
Yen 1,347,493"
The Opium Monopoly ureau early this month moved
into its new quarters, an imposing building costing some
Yom 100.00c 1n the rear of the Duiren City Hall.
(8) Destruction of Narcotics at ukden.
It might be apprcpriate in this connection to quote
th following nowe item from the MAilCHURIA DAILY Ns of
Jume 20. 1930:
"800,000 1ORTH O1IU
Censigned to Flames at lfukden
On the morning of the l6th, wubjeot to the
understasding of the Consular Representatives
semsermed, at the recreation ground, Hsimeheyen
Makéem. 13s paekages ef opim valued at s800, 000,
that represented the seimures at the Chinese Dis-
triet Pest Offiee while en their way from Hamburg
to Changehom, were eensigmed to fl ames in the pre-
menee of Gev. Teang. the Chier Judge of the Distriet
Coart, the Distriet Post Master, the Chief of Police,
ete."
王

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.90)
I hawe the honor to be, ir.
Your ebedient servant,
m. R. Langdon,
Ameriean Consul.
Enelesure:
Hesspaper item, as stated.
001.4
In duplseate:
Gapy to Departmant;
Gep to Legation, Peking?
A true copy of
the signed orig
ina!.
a. m. f.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.94)
Frm THE MANCHURLA DAILY NEWS oF JUMe 4. 1930.
MOST EXTENSIVE SMUGGLING PLOTS
Several Japanese of Good Standing Involved
The Latest poliee expesure in the shape ef the
The mmgglers meant to cheat the law by dedging it
This Clause reads:
tuns as stipulated in Art. 5.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.92)
simse Mareh 10, 1928, 1,915 k1logrammes of benzoin
The seeend srowe inelwdes T. Shirakam, ex-M. P. who
Skirakam ceneeived the idea of saggling frem the
ware reeeived through the Dairen Pest Office between July
22 and Dee. 1s of the same year.
The lures of the above examples proved too strong
to resist te a third greup including K. Matsuushi, pro-
address of Matsusehi last ssmer.
The pellee havins werhed on the elwe and celleeted
We miakt add that shirakane flew to Dairer on Mar.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.91)
July 31. 1080,
iL Langien, Require,
Amerieam Comaul.
mirom.
sirt
89
The Department has received a copy of your despatch
4C
o2 Jume 23, 19s0, adaressed to the Embassy at Tokyo, re-
garding the illieit traffic in narootic drugs in Dairen,
and emelesing a cow of a newspaper artiele which appeared
4
1the MANGRURLA DAILY NEWS of June 4. 1930. The enelosure
N
A
esmmists of one page only, but it appears that there should
RCOT
be one or more additional pages, and you are instrueted to
transmit a complete copy of the enolosure, together with
C
any edditional information regarding this matter which you
S
1
y be able to obtain.
2
The enelosure refers to "bensoin", which is not ordi-
marily regarded as a nareotic drug, and the Department de-
sires to be informed whether it is so regarded by the
Japtmese amtherities, or whether this was merely a name
use to sonctal the true nature of the drags, and, if meg
that armgs re actually contained in the shipment.
Inferastion smch as that contained in your deppetah
coméing

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.87)
2一
sending eopies to such of the diplomatie missions and
sonsulates in the Par East as you think may be interested.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. CASTLE, JA.
CR
Ju1.3) 1930
aCe
PEIJKC:DJA-C/C

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.91)
PM RECU
EMBASSY OF THE
12
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
10
Tokyo, July 3, 1930
7
6
6
OF
ST
No. 199.
JUL 30 30
August 0. 1939.
Diridion of
FAR BASTERN APFANNS
JUL 81 1930
snererent od e
894C.114-NARC0T1CS/1
copia
tToky
(despatch f June 2 3, 1930
at Totyo) sent
Treasny 9/30/30 
(8e 89.4 C.114 ha/12
fon ocpts cogry of the
enelosme to Khi daspatch
whish was sent dract from
The Honorable
Danan?
The Secretary of State,
C1!
Washington.
Sir:
S9Y
1/.
I have the hoor to enclose a copy of & letter which
the Embassy has received from r. Willia.. R. Langdon,
American Consul at Dairen, in regard to the alleged use of
Dairen as a center for the distribution of illicit opium
and other dangerous drugs.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Ebinin t. hurth
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Af aires ad interim.
Enclosure?
Copy of letter.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.91)
August 8. 1980.
the Amriem Chargé a'Affaires a interim,
Tokye.
The Sesretary of State scknowledges the reseipt
894C.114-NARCOTICS/1
of despateh No. 199, dated July 3, 1950, from the Chargé
d'Affaires ad interim at Tokyo, enolosing a eow of a
esmmmnieation from the Consul at Dairen, dated Jume 2s.
1990, regarding the illicit traffic in marootie drugs and
tranmmits herewith, for the information of the Charge, a
esy of an instruetion which was sent to the Consul at
Dairen on July 31, 1950, regarding this matter.
3
losures
A true copy of
the signed orig-
aM
otses/s
FE
5.1980.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.92)
Aogust 18, 1970.
.94
To the American Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
The Secretary of State enoloses herewith a copy
of hie instruation No. 2 of February 3, 1930, requesting
4
five copies of the despatoh of December 9, 1929, from
C
the Consul at Dairen to the Embassy, regarding the con-
trol of the traffic in narcotic druge in the Kwantung
Leased Territory, no copies of which appear to have been
received by the Department.
If copies of the despatoh in question have been
forwarded, the Charge d'Affaires is inetruoted to report
the date of their transmission, indioating whether they
were sent by the Embasey or by the Consul at Dairen.
If they have not been sent, copies should be prepared
and transmitted as soon as possible.
Enclosure:
A true copy of
Copy of Department's inetruotion
No. 2 of February 3. 1930.
nat,
XS
893.-Narcotics/94
KQ
PE:50N12F
FE
8/15/30

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
PM ALLU
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 8, 1930.
No. 249.
iv10ion 0
FAN EASTERN AFFAIBS
SEP 5
SEP 2430
T
9/30/30 2u
October
C
94C
X DUREAU
The Honorable
(7
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
the Department's Instruotion No. 94, of August 18,
1950, requesting five copies of the despatoh of
December 9, 1929, from the Consul at Dairen to the
Embasmy regarding control of the traffic in narootio
drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory. Copies were
not heretofore forwarded by the Embassy inasmuoh as
the original dempatoh addresmed to the Embasmy con-
tained

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
tained a statement that a copy had been sent to the
Department. In complianoe with the above-mentioned
1/. instruotion, five copies of this despatoh, with en-
olosures, are tranamitted.
Respeotfully yours,
Edum I. naull
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Emolosure:
1. Five copies of
despatoh from Consul
at Dairen to Embassy,
of Deoember 9, 1929.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
"Kwantung Government, too, is expected
to face an opportunity to consider a change
in its Monopoly system in future.
Especially, concerning Morphine, stock
confiscated in the Leased Territory having
been sold to Chosen, an opinion is raised
that, it be ing plainly incoherent to supply
what belongs to Kwantung Government to add
to the Monopoly stock in Chosen, the con-
fiscated morphine stock in the Leased Terri-
tory may be offered for sale and the proceeds
from the sale of the same be included in the
Government Budget i th the same degree of
licitness as in the case of the confiscated
opium.
Of course, the question whether Morphine
should be put under monopoly leaves room for
further study.
Respectfully yours,
No. P.Langhon
Wm. R. Langdon,
American Consul.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
 rltern tional opium Conference was eld
at sni in l909, ut v icn c..in u ot..er
countries ueciueu to adopt meusures to restrict
the use of opiun. T..e Rwantun Leuseu Territory
endorsed t e pri. ciple of rudual erudication of
the evil, und rece nizin t.e neea of ulterin
tie existing system in oruer to ensure stricter
contro. ave  eneisive liesnse to t.e Jairen
Kozai Sendo (puiren ..rity Relief Institute) in
april 19ls to i. port unu sell opium. rollowing
the recolcnuation or t e cabine Jouncil, t.e
smokin control of ice o. t c institute wus re-
nuned a phurnacy in se. te ber 19z0 nu meusures
taken in every direction t pro..ibit smoking und
curry out t..e principle of radual eradication of
t..e evil. T.e neel of  s eciul opium law and
regulations bein relt, te subject vus stuuiea
for many years una on urc. z0, 1924, imperial
Ordinunce ..o. 53 (revisea by i.mperial Ordinance
No. 1o7 or Ju1y 26, 19z8) was promulated, maxing
a special permit fio... t..e lovernor necessary in
order to smoke, refine, sell, transfer and possess
opiun or manufacture, import, export, transfer,
sell, or posses, crude opium, eiiciial opium, or
smoking utensils. By t.e sule urdinance, smoking
halls were ubolished, pop y cultivation forbidden,
and penalties provided for i.. ractions of t.e law.
It was also deciae. by territorial judicial court
order to aut..orize t..e appropriate aut.orities to
apply severe punalties to persons w..o resisteu in-
speetion. Cn u ust , l924, kwantung Jovernment
Order No. 50 (reviseu by the regulations of July
28, 1928) was issueu for carryin; out the provisions
of the Luw. This order re ulates opium adlicus,
retailers, et cetera, in .e most detailed maimer.
Kwantung Governnent  onopoly Bureau, Dairen.
The monopoly Bureau was creu ed unuer Imperial
Ordinance o. 179 of July 1928, und 1s based on
opium treaties. That is to say, crude opium is im-
ported, sold, transferreu, stored, and manufactured,
and meuicinal opium sold, transferrea and stored under
the inmediate direction or the Governor. The opium
office of the forner Relief Institute was also
abolished.
Narcotics.
Lorphine, cocaine and its salts, and other
narootics, as well as medicines with narcotio
properties are also subjeot to regulation by the
Governor. The manufacture, export or movenent of
these drugs requires a permit from the Governor,
and no person other than a speoialist or holder of
a certificate may receive suoh a permit. The pos-
session, trafrio and even transfer of narootio drugs
is forbidden, and offenders are liable to appropriate
puniahment."
It 1s

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
It is re rete
ae co
on t..e
foregoing she c. is not possiole owin to the complete
lack of material on t.is subject eit.er in the files
of this ofrice or in ofricial publications in tne Con-
sulute's library.
In 192s there wus & sensational
public trial of t e civil Ad inisirutor of pairen and
a group of private i..dividuals w.o ..ad defruuded the
Kwantung goveriunent of its opiu revenue, an the
followig excerpts fron the judge's sentenee throw some
lignt on coluitions prior to state uuninistration or the
opium business:
"Not a fen C..inese rusiai, in t.e Kwantun
Leased Territory uve beco..e a. icte.. to opiun
smokin. The Kwantu Joverment in oruer to
supply opium to t. ese ..ubituul s..olers so as to
fill their cryin, pysical need, ut t.e sane time
to create a souree of revenue, ho..i ate the
Churity Institute at  airen as i. porter anu seller
of opium, by the exercise of e ad inistrative
authority it is investe vith. e opium ofrice of
the Institute hus been eipowereu to attend to the
purc  se anu sales of opium, und the net profit
cleared from tie business is to be paia to the
Kwantung Government through the Dairen Civil Ad-
ministrator. As to t.e afrairs of the opium
office, the Civil aministrator is to direct and
control them.
The Civil Adninistrator, Dairen, is authorized
to appoint and dismiss or iciuls of the Opium Office,
and to fix the purchasing und selling price of opium.
The Civil Administrator makes the Opium Office look
after the details. he is charged to see that the
net profit payable to the Kwantung Government be
not deoreased.
Nakano, the defendant, arrived at his post as
Civil Adninistrator on February 10, 1919, and assumed
his duties conoerning the Opium Office.
Acting on a suggestion made by Kajii, Kuwata,
and the late Kambara, the selling price of opium was
reduoed on purpose with a view to clearing a profit
for Kajii, Nakano and the late Kambara.
(4) In oollusion with Obata and Kaji1, between
June 26, 1921, and September 9, 1921, 5722 pounds of
opium were sold in the name of Wei Chang-te to Fujii,
enabling Fuji1 to gain the sum of Yen 140 338
thereby outting down the receipts of the kwantung
Government

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
Government to that extent."
The Judge then enumeruteu t.e transactions by
which the Kwantung Government wus aefrauded of a total of
Yen 814,000, and conoluded with the following renarks:
"It is true t at t.e ad. inistrative neasure,
by wnich tie Kwantung Jovernment has specially
designated the Chinese Charity Institute as im-
porter and seller of opium and as caused the Opium
Office of the same Institute to attend to te details,
contravenes the provisions concerning opium in the
Cri inal Code issued by Iaperial Ordinance for
operation in the Kwantung Leasei Territory. However,
so long 'as te sale au inistrative measure has not
been rescinded, its validity ougit to be reccnizea.
Therefore, the duties of hukano, as ubove mentionea,
may be regarded as such as are liable to constitute
a breac. of trust."
The present metlod of re uluting t. e use and con-
sumption of opium in t..e Kvantung Leaseu .erritory is
explaineu by tne Opium Law of t..e rerritory anu by the
Territorial governlent rules ror au inisterin: this
law.
. translatio. of the luw anu re ulations, as
well as of t..e Imperial Orainance creatin, and organizing
the Kwantung Government onopoly Bureau, is enclosed
herewith.
As has been stated above, t.e numerous statistical
and otuer publioations of the kwantung Governnent on
file in this ofrice are devoid of material relatins to
the opium business. The budgets and balance sheets of
the Port Arthur Government until 1928 contain no item
or entry indicating the proportion of revenue derived
from the opium business. The roceedinss of the opium
trial in l922, however, furnish some 1dea of the volume
of business and scale of profits, to wit:
Period

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
Period
Frauaulent Transactions
Government
defrauded of
Dec. 11, 1u19, to
729 1bs. import opium
Yen 108,310
Dec. 21, 1920
(¥730,792)
Aug. 11, 1920, to
125 1bs. crude opium
n
56,516
Dec. 6, 1920
67 boxes refined "
2,116 1bs. 1mport
(¥201,626)
Feb. 12, 1920, to
8, 712 1bs. import opium
1"
147,884
Dec. 25, 1920
(¥-----)
Aug. 2, 1919, to
6, 781 1bs. import opium
400,978
Sept. 4, 1920
,46
crude
11
(¥1,077,338)
June 26, 1921, to
Sept. 9, 1921
5,605 1bs. 1mport opim
140,338
127
11
crude
(¥414,182)
Sumnary
Aug. 2, 1919, to
24,O0 1bs. import opium
80,026
Sept. 9, 1921
798
cruae
67 boxes refined
(¥1,693,196)
The Kwantung Jovernment's financial statement for
1928 - l939, covering a periou or eint months of direct
and four months of indirect state operation of the opium
business, contains the following items:
Orainary Revenue
Reve..ue from (Opium) .onopoly
Yen 2,054,733
Ordinary Expenditure
Expenses of monopoly Bureau
966,618
The Kwantung Government thus aleared a net profit
of Yen 1,088, 115 from the sele of opium in the fisoal
year ended Maroh 31, 1929, while the gross revenue from
opium formed 15.3 per cent. of its total orainary revenue.
Imports of opium into Dairen in redent years have
been as follows:
1920

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.96)
- -
1920
18,224 1bs.
1921
39,301
11
1923
1,920
f1
1924
35,112
1925
84,678
1926
76,808
n
1927
60,713
n
1928
60,631
1st 8 months 1929
86,583
n
me above quantities were imported into Dairen for
consumption in the Leased Territory, tnat is to say, to
meet the needs of the local populution. The population
of the Territory rew fro.. 667,382 in 1920 to 805, 604 at
the end of 1927.
is Juru.ese ure not pem.ittei to
smoke opium (ariiele  of Regulutions for Enforcement
of Opium Law), t e ubove opiun imports, outside of small
quantities for me ici ul use by Ju unese residents,
were consule. cntipul by  e mu ive populutioh, wich
increaseu fron 593,00 in 1920 to 707,000 in 1927.
The
per cupita umual conswaption anon the c. inese in the
Territory t.us rew fro:. .5 ounces in 1920 to 1.37 ounces
in 1927.
at present it would be approxinutely two
ounces per person.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
(Sineu) Wm. R. Langdon
American Consul.
Enolosures:
Translation of Kwantung Opium Law;
Translation of Ordinance Creating Opium Monopoly Bureau;
Translation of Regulations for Enforcement of Kwantung
Opium Law.
811.4
WRL:L
In duplioate;
Copy to Department;
Copy to Legation;
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo;
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure No. 1 to despatoh of Wm. R. Langdon,
Amerioan Consul at Dairen, Manohuria, to Amerioan Embassy,
Tokyo, dated December 9, i929, on the subjeot "Regulation
of Opium Traffio in Kwantung Leased Territory".
Translated from KTU oVEa OPICI ZETE,
July 28, 1928.
KWANTU.G LEASED TERRITORY OPIUM LAW.
(Imperial Orainance No. 53, promulgated arch 26, 1924,
as amendeu by Imperial Urdina..ce No. l67, promulgated
July 26, 1928.)
Art. 1.
For t.e purposes of t.. s Law, tle ter opium
snall refer to cruae opium, refined opium and
medicinul opium.
Art. 2.
Lo one sull soke opium except sucn auuicts
as are considered to be i.. heed of eriodical
doses ana are permitted by the Governor of Kwantung
to smoke for t.e ti..e bein.
Art. 3.
Opiun or s.o..i. utensils s.ull not be imported
except by t..e jovernor i. suc.. uantities us are
requireu for meuicinal uses or lor the relief of
adaicts; nor snall t. ey be exporteu except under
pernit rro the governor for meuicinal purposes.
The sule ana trunsfer of erude ana medicinal
opium and the manufacture of opium shall be carried
on by the Governor.
Art. 4.
No perso.. sull manufacture, buy or sell, trans-
fer, possess, or transport opium or smoking utensils
without permission fro the Jovernor except in the
followins cases and in accordance with Regulations
drawn up by the Governor:
1.
When ne is an opium retailer and manu-
factures refined opium and smoking utensils,
or buys, sells, transfers, possesses, or
transports crude opium, refined opium, or
smoking utensils.
2.
When an opium audict nolding a permit
under Artiole 2 purc ases, possesses, or trans-
ports crude opium, refined opium, or smoking
utensils.
3.
When a drugcist purchases, possesses, or
transports orude or refined opium for medioal
purposes or prescriptions.
4.
When a physioian, dentist, veterinary
surgeon, druggist, or dealer in medicinal opium
sells, purchases, transfers, possesses, or
transports opium for medioal purposes.
5.
When a person purchases medioinal opium
under a presoription issued by a physioian,
dentist, or veterinary surgeon.
With the

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
With the exception of purohases by the
Government, trafiic in opium ashes is pro-
ibited.
Art. 5.
Opium smoking houses shall not be
establisned or conduoted.
Art. 6.
No poppies shall be cultivated with a view
to opium manufacture.
Art. 7.
The Governor of Kwantung may order any
perso. in possession of a permit under article 4
or any opium retailer, uealer in medicinal opium,
medicine manufacturer, pysiciun, aentist,
veterinury sur eon, or aru ist to furnish a re-
port.
Vart. 8.
Person s.okin opium wit..out a pernit as
provided for in article 2 shall be liable to
penal servitude for a period not exceeding three
years or a fine not exceeuing Yen 300.00.
Art. 9.
Persons i. portin or exporting opiun in
violation or t.e provisios of Article 3, and
persons wno manu. 'acture or sell opiun or purchase
or transport it for purposes of sale in violation
of the provisions of article 4 s..all be sentenced
to penal servitude for a period not less than
six months nor more than seven years.
Persons i.porting or exporting smoking
utensils in violation of the provisions of Article
3, and persons manufacturing or selling such
utensils or purcnasin: them for the purpose of
selling them in vi lation of the provisions of
Article 4, and persons violating the provisions
of the second para raph of article 2 shall be
sentenced to penal servitude for a period of not
less than three months and not less than five
years.
Persons violating the provisions of Article
4 when not punished as provided in the two
preceding clauses, shali be sentenced to penal
servitude for a period not exceeding one year or
to a fine not exceeding Yen 500.00.
Art. 10.
Persons violatin3 the provisions of Article
5 shall be sentenced to penal servitude for a
period not less than six months nor exceeding
seven years.
Art. 11.
An offence committed under the preceding
three Artioles shall be punished even though not
yet aocomplished.
Art. 12.
Persons violating the provisions of Artiole 6
shall be sentenoed to penal servitude for a period
not exoeeding two years or fined a sum not in
excess of Yen 1,000,00.
Art. 13
Persons failing without sufficient cause to
furnish

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
-13 -
furnish the report proviaed for in Article 7,
puragrapn 1, or making a fulse report, or op-
posing, preventing, or refusin orriciul in-
spection, or failin to give answer to ofricial
inquiries, or making false statements, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding Yen 200.00.
Art. 14.
The provisions of Section 14, Cnapter 2,
of the Criminal Code, referred to in the Rules
for Judicial Proceedins in the Kwantung Leased
Territory, slall not apply to t.e present Law.
Supolementury Rule.
The date when this Law sall o into eflect shall
be ueter ineu by tne Jovern r of Kwa..tung.
(Refere..ce - Luw No. 4o, Criminul Luw, promul ated
April 24, 1907, C..apter 2, section 14, proviues for
penalties reluti. to opium).

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 2 to despaton of Wm. R. Langdon,
Amerioan Consul at Dairel, Manchuria, to American mbassy,
Tokyo, dated Dece ber 9, 1929, on ti.e subject "Regulation
of Opium Trafric in Kwantung Leased erritory".
Translateu fro. THE K TUNG GOVERT ET OFFICLL GAZETTE,
July 31, 1929.
ORGLIIZATIO. OF T.E KINTUL. JOVER.. ET  O.UPLY BUREAU.
(Imperial Orainance ..o. 179, promulgated on July
:0,1928.)
Art.l.
Tihe Kwantun Jovernment onopoly Bureau shall
be adninistered by te iovernor of Kwantung, and
shall re ulnte t..e i. port, sale, trancfer und
custody or crude opiull, us well as the sale,
transrer  cu ouy of iciul o iun.
art. 2.
T e wantun lover.e.t. onopoly Bureau shall
s..ull be estublis e: ut vairen.
art. 3.
 e Hvu tun Joverin.ent oopoly Bureau shall
have t.e followin ofriciuls:
1
c.ier or  e Bureau
Sonin Rank
2
sirectors
19
1n
1
Tec.inicul Expert
n
6
Subordinute Orlicers
annin Runk
2
recanical assistants
11
11
1
Interpreter
1:
11
art. 4.
T..e C..ief or t..e Bureau s..all udminister the
Bureau in accordunce with tne instructions of the
Governor of Kwuntu.., ana sall supervise the stafr.
Art. 5.
Tie Directors shall periorm their duties in
accordance wit.. t e instructions of t.eir superior
ofricer.
Art. 6.
The Tecinical Expert shall.perform tecimioal
duty as directed by his superior officers.
Art. 7.
The Subordinate Offioers shall perform
duties as direoteu by tleir superior ofricers.
Art. 8.
The Technioal Assistants shall atiend to
tecanioal business in accordance with the instruo-
tions of their superior ofricers.
Art. 9.
The Interpreter shall perform interpretation
and translation duty in accordance with the in-
struotions of his superior officers.
Supplementary Rule
The present Ordinance shall become effeotive on the
date of promulgation.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.95)
Enolosure No. 3 to desputci. of Wn. R. Langdon,
American Consul at Dairen, Lanonuria, to American Embassy,
Tokyo, dateu Deoember 9, i929, on the subject "Regulation
of Opium Traftic in Kwantu: Leased Territory".
Translateu fron TE K..TUn JOVERi. OFFICIAL GAZETTE
of August 13, 1924 (No. 935), and of July 28, 1928.
(extra edition).
REGULIO FOR  EMO ON  
LEASE ERRITORY OPIUIL. L.
(Kwantun jovern..ent 0ruer o. 935 of uust 13, 1924,
as Reviseu by loverm ent Oruer .o. S4 of July 27,
1928.)
art. 1.
4 erso.. desiril per is. lo.. to s. .o .e opium,
s..ul wake weit er a  llsu iso te lovernor
of t.e Mu tun Leuse.  erritore, stating is
place or re lstrutlon, tl ress, sule, age, und
profession.
art. 2.
Ven .e loverlor reesl es lieations in
accorause wie. t e ubsve ul icle, per ission
to use opiwn will oll. be ranteu to c inese
w..o re consiuered opiun udlicts by aesinuted
pys ciuns.
Art. 3.
Wen per..issio.. to use opium has been
ranted in accoraance wit. erece in article,
the mount wich ma. be s.oked in any one day
will be set fort. in a permit furnished the
aduict.
The lovernor shall cause special and
periodical medical exacinatio.. to be made of
persons rantea perlission to smoke opium, and
ma change the quantity allowed in the permit,
or cancel tle permit.
Art. 4.
Persons losing their smoking permit must
apply for a new one.
Art. 5.
Lioensed opium smokers may purchase opium
and smoking utensils. Persons ho aing smoking
permits may purchase only a gwantity of opium 
at one time sufricient for a periou of ten days,
unless permission be obtained from the competent
police authorities on account of traveling or
other unavoidable ciroumstances.
Licensed opium smokers may not have in their
possession more than the amount prescribed in the
preceding paragraph.
Art. 6.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Art. 6.
Licensed opium smokers may not purchase
eit.er opium or s.oxin utensils wit.out present-
inu pur.it.
Art. 7.
Licensei opium smokers will,not be permitted
to make purchases of opium or smoking utensils
from other than licensed opium retailers.
Art. 8.
Crude and medicinal opium shall be sold and
transferred by the Kwuntun Government onopoly
Bureau.
Art. 9.
W..en dealers in medicinal opium, opium re-
tailers, and medicine mnufucturers licensed to
purchase opium desire to secure opium, they
shall make upplication therefor to the Kwantung
Government .onopoly Bureau.
Art. 10.
In case of schools, scientific istitutes,
or experi..ental stations re uirin: opium for
scientiric pur oses, the Kwantung Government
Lonopoly Bureau may supply it ratis.
art. 11.
Canceled.
art. 12.
Te Kwantun Jovernor sali desinate a
li..iteu nuuber of perso..s aon pluracists and
dru jists wlo may deal in meuicinal opium.
In case a physician, dentist, veterinary
sur eon, or p.urlucist desires to obtain opium,
he shall secure a certificate from t.e police
aut..orities of is locality and make application
for te desired opium to a dealer as provided in
the precedin clause, provided, however, t hat a
certificate snall not be required for amounts
aggregatin less tnan 25 grams of medicinal
opium in a sinle year.
Art. 13.
Except in accordance with the foregoing
procedure, no opium ma. be sold for medical
purposes unless the purchaser possess e prescription
from a doctor, dentist, or veterinary surgeon.
Art. 14.
In case a dealer in medicinal opium desires
to export opium for medicinal purposes, he shall
make application to the Governor of Kwantung,
statins the port of destination and quantity to
be exported, and submitting the certificate
issued by the authorities of the place of im-
portation.
Art. 15.
When a retailer of medioinal opium ohanges
his place of registration (honseki), residence,
or name, or oloses his business, or dies, a re-
port must be made to the Kwantung Governor
within ten days by himself or his family.
Art. 16.
Canoeled.
Art. 17.
Canoeled.
Art. 18.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Art. 18.
Canceled.
Art. 19.
The Kwantung gover.or sall desi nate retail-
ers of opium as requireu.
Art. 20.
Persons licensed in accoruance with the
foregoing artiole s..all be permitted to manu-
facture or sell refined opium or smokin
utensils.
Art. 21.
When a retailer of opium cn nies is place
of reistration, resiuence, or nane, or closes
his business, or dies, u report must be made to
t e overnor wit.in ten duys by iself or
fumily.
art. 22.
A retailer of opiun shall not be alloweu
to purchase opium fro.. perso..s ot: er than the
K..antun Govern.ent .onopo y bureau.
rt. 23.
No retailer of opium will be allowed to
sell opiun or smokin utensils, except to
licensed smokers w.o present teir permits.
Art. 24.
No retailer of opium will be allowed to
sell more thun the quantity of opium prescribed
in rticle 5.
rt. 25.
Opium retuilers u..a ealers in medicinal
opium must kee account pooks s..owing purohases
and sales of opium and s.okin, utensils.
In t..e book s..owin purchases, te kind,
quuntity, va ue, ana dite of purc..uses of opium
and smokin u: ensils must be clearly entered
each time.
In the book of sales, the kind, quantity,
value,date, of material soid, toetner with
name and uge of purchasers, and other necessary
itens required by t.e Governor o the Territory,
shall be clearly entered.
Art. 26.
Opium retailers ana dealers in medicinal
opium must report to the competent police
authorities regardins the receipt and delivery
of opium and smoking utensils, before the 5th
of eaoh month, for the preceding month.
The permission or the Kwantung Governor for
the disposal of the remaining stock of opium or
smoking utensils shall be obtained witnin ten
days by the persons concerned, or, in the event
of their death by their heirs or family, in the
following instances:
(1) When a designated or licensed opium re-
tailer or a dealer in medicinal opium
or a medicine manufaoturer has has ap-
pointment or license withdrawn, or when
he oloses his business or dies;
(2) When a physician, dentist, veterinary sur-
geon, or pharmacist oloses his business,
is disqualified, or dies.
Art. 27.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
Art. 27.
Opium retailers, und dealers in medicinal
opium must comply witn ull instructions or the
Governor regarding their business.
Art. 28.
Persons violatin te provisions of Clauses
2 and 3 of Article 5, of Articles 6, 7, 13, 22,
23, and 24, shall be punished by imprisonment
of a period not exceeding one year or by a fine not
exceedin two unareu en. Pie same punishments
will be appliei to persons ivin or lendin
their smokin per.its ot other people.
Art. 29.
Persons violutin rticles 15, 21, 25 and 2nd
Clause of article z, s.all be fined not more
than Yen 100.00
art. 30.
If the uevler i euicinal opium is & minor
or an incompetent persons t.ese penul regulations
s. all up ly to is le al re resentutive.
rt. 31.
if a re rese tative, .ouse ..euu, fa il,
associute, or ot er e..ployee of u aeuler of
medicinal opius violute these re ulatio..s t.e
latter vill be nelu res o sitle.
art. 32.
If te re rese tative or ot er e ployee or
juriaicul perso.. vio te  ese re ul tiols t.e
enult. s ull p. l. to t.e suid juriuicul person.
In cuse a juriuicul perso. is to be punis. ea,
t..e represe..tative of suc.. erson shall ve the
aere..dant.
art. 33.
When aeulers in ...euicinul opium are found
guilty of cri.e or i.proper co.duct in connection
with their business, such business may be sus-
penueu and the license of tie parties concerned
witndrawn.
Supple.ental Regulations.
These regulutions shall come into force on the same
date as te enforcement of Imperial Ordinance No. 167 of
1928.
Drugists and opium retailers licensed under previous
regulations shall be regarded as authorized dealers in
medioinal opium and opium retailers under the present
regulations.
Kwantung Government Notioe No. 33,
July 28, 1928.
Imperial Ordiuance No. 167 of 1928 comes into foroe
on July 31, 1928.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
893.114 Narcotics/153
SEE
FOR Instruction # 105.
1..D.X BURE▲U
FROM
) DATED
C
TO
(Nev111E)
1--1127
Japan
September 17, 1930
REGARDING:
Illicit traffic in narcotics at Dairen and the con-
necticn f this traffic with Hamburg and with Japan.
hs

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.93)
Cotober 1. 1980.
The Beeretary of State presents his ecmpliments
to the Hemerable the Secretary of the Treasury and
smeloses herewith a cow of despatch No. 249, of Sep-
tomber 8, l9so, from the American Ambessy at Tokyo,
with a eow of its emelosure, a despatch addressed to
894.
the Embesay by the Ameriean Censul at Dairen Deeember 9.
1929, reporting on the regulation of the opium traffic
in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
C
A copy of * despateh from the American Consul at
Dairen to the American Ambessy at Tokyo, dated June 2s.
4
1950, is alse enolosed, which deals with nareotio smag-
NARCOTICS/17
gling in Dairen. This may be of interest in view of the
eemsiderable mmmber of steamers trading between Dairen
and American perts. The substance referred to as "ben-
seim" in the artiele from the MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS is
baliered te be benseylmerphine; but the Consul has beem
regeested to report more preeisely on this point.
OR
Oot.
JRP
000

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
PM RECD
No. -184-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Maaahuria, aptember 15, 1950.
SUBJECT:
Narcotic Trarftering Bairon.
1—1066 G PO
Divisionof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
any 10/10/30
Octoter :1 lou.
OCT 9 1930
THE HONORABLE
Fili ny
Sur
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
H
In conformity with the Department's instruction
8
S
6
of July 31, l930, relative to the illicit traffio in
4
INDEX BUREAU
narcotic drugs in Dairen, there is transmitted here-
C
with a complete copy of the enclosure in this Consu-
late's despatch of June 23, 1930, to the Embassy at
4
NARCOTICS/I
Tokyo, part of which was missing from the copy of the
despatch received by the Department.
As regards "benzoin", it appears that this was the
incorrect rendering made by the MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS of
the word "benzoline". Benzoline, said to contain 80
894c
per cent of morphia, is considered a narootic drug by
8
the Japanese authorities (vide paragraph 2 of Article
1 of Kwantung Government Order No. 54 of September 28,
LLED
1927, "Control of Narcotics", forwarded to the Depart-
ment in translation in this office's despatch No. 256
of Oetober 22, 1927).
It would appear that the offense of the seteral
persons indieted in this case consists of having con-
timmed to trarfie in narcotic drugs other than morphia
and coeaine long atter Oetober 1, 1927, and of having
falsiried

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
一8-
falsified or procured false doouments to make it seem
that such goods were obtained or contracted for prior
to that date. Under the third provision of the Supple-
mentary Regulations to Order No. 54 above cited, narco-
tics other than heroin or cocaine which were certified
to have been contracted for previous to October 1, l927,
could be imported without the permission of the Kwantung
Governor, and the offense is obviously one of abuse of
this provision.
According to the press version of the case, 6,165
kilograms (nearly 7 tons) of benzoline passed through
the Dairen Post Office after Order No. 54 went into
effect, the shipments continuing as late as April 19,
1929, nineteon months after the promulgation of the
Order. The volume and extended duration of the busi-
ness suggest official laxity at least. It was not
until January 30, 1930, that the provision of law per-
mitting the free importation of narcotics other than
morphime and cocaine contracted for prior to Ootober
1, l927, which was evidently enacted as a temporary
measure to save bona fide dealers from loss, was de-
finitely canceled by Government Order (Kwantung Govern-
ment Order No. 13 of January 30, 1930, amending Order
No. 54 of September 28, 1927).
All the indicted persons in this case are out on
bail at the present time, and no date has yet been fixed
for the trial of the case.
Rospeotfully

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Respectfully yours,
wm. R. Langdon
American Consul.
811.4
WRL:L
Enolosure:
Newspaper item - as stated.
In tripliaate. to Department;
Copy to Mabassy, Tokyo;
Copy to Legation, Peking;
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo;
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure in despatoh of Wm. R. Langdon, American
onsul at Dairen, Manchuria, to Embassy, Tokyo, Japan,
dated June 23, 1930, on the subject "Narcotic Traffic
Notes."
From THE MANCIHURIA DAILY NE IS of June 4, 1930.
MOST EXTEHSIVE SIUGGLTNG PLCTS
Several Japanese of ood tanding Involved
Phe latest police exposure in the shape of the
extensive benzoin smucgling case is certainly the
boldest and most systematic in tne police annals of
this port.
The smugtlers meant to cheat the law by dodging it
on the strenth of clause 3 of the upplementary Retu-
lations concerning the control of narcotics issued on
Sept. 28, 1927, for operation in Iwantung Leased Terri-
tory.
This Clause reads:
All narcotics, excepting morphine and heroin, that
are certified to have been bargained for prior to the
issue of the present regulations, and are under transit
at the time of the introduction of the same regulations,
may be imported even without permission of the Governor
of Kwantung as stipulated in art. 3.
Thos prosecuted on the conclusion of preliminary
trails in the Dairen District Court comprise 8 Japanese
who are divided into 3 groups.
The first group includes . Komatsu, a pharmaceutist
in Yamagata-dori.In September, 1927, omatsu sent out
an order for 9oc kilogrammes of benzoin in his name to
the Hoffmans, Basel, witzerland. Another order for
1,000 kilogrammes was placed in lani's name with the
same firm. Tsunemitsu, who is one of the 2 prisoners
still at large, chanced to have 400 kilogrammes of ben-
zoin still due to him, and he was sent to Germany in
January, 1928, to negotiate with the Heinrichsens for
the purchase of 2,400 kilogrammes of benzoin, paying
for 1,O00 kilogrammes as raised in Dairen between Tani
and Kamano. The balance was paid by Tsunemitsu in
Germany. They made it appear that all the 2,400 kilo-
grammes of the narcotic had been sent to Hamburg from
Switzerland as the above regulations took effect, and
got a German notary public certify to that effect, then
endorsed by the Japanese Consulate. This certificate
was presented to Kwantung Government.
Since

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Since March 10, 1928, 1,915 kilogramnes of benzoin
valued at ¥630,0cc, were receivel in 5 lots by Yomatsu
by parcel post, and were smugrled into airen between
May 12 and June 21 of the same yeur.
The second group includes T. Shirakawa, ex-M.P. who
is reported to be worth two million yen.
Shirakawa conceived the idea of smuggling from the
tempting example set by the other group. He took ad-
vantage of a reply wire from Cermany received by his con-
federate, Kawakami, before the above retulations came
into force, and on the strength of the telegram, Shirakawa
visited Germany in May, 1928, and bought 2,40c kilogrammes
benzoin and 600 kilogrammes heroin, conjurin up the cir-
cumstances of the purchase exactly on the lines of the
other conspiracy. From June 2, 1928, 2,400 kilogrammes
of benzoin and 600 kilogramnes heroin, valued at 990,000,
were consiened to Kawakami by parcel post in 14 lots, and
were received through the Dairen Post Cffice between July
22 and Dec. 18 of the sume year.
The lures of the above examples proved too strong
to resist to a third group including . Matsuuchi, pro-
prietor of a large medicine store in Ise-machi, . Tanabe,
facing the charte of embezzlement in connection with the
Sharestock Exchange, Dairen.
The same scheme of cheat-
ing was adopted by the trio.
Only this roup dealt
with Behringers, Hamburte, from which firm they had re-
ceived a reply wire namint: te prices on which one busi-
ness relation had been opened.
Yonezawa, the third man, went to (ermany in January,
1928, and bought 1,8cc kilogramaes of benzoin and had the
same consigned in 6 1ots between Jan. 23 and apr. 19, 1929
taking delivery of 3 lots of 1,850 Hlorammes valued at
about ¥640,000.
The smuggling plot was first detected when part of
the narcotic got to the Dairen lost Office with the
address of Matsuuchi last summer.
The police having worked on the clue and collected
sufficient evidences, on the morning of Jan. 27 last,
the prisoners were captured, excepting Tsunemitsu, a
rosident of Osaka, and Hiramatsu (local Manager of the
Inuiu).
We might add that Shirakawa flew to Dairen on Mar.
18 and gave himself up. He has stubbornly refused to
give details, and the police are at their wit's end as
to how to open his mouth.
The phioe are still at sea who furnished the gangs
with funds.
The benzoin stocks seized by the local judicial people
amount to 1,350 kilogrammes valued at over ¥600,000 con-
signed to Matsuuchi.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.114 NARCOTICS
INDEX BUBEAU
FOR Despatch # 125
893.114 Narcotics/156
SEE
Sent. 13, 1930.
Langdon
)DATED
Dairen
FROM
1-1127
NAME
TO
REGARDING:
On May 28, 1930, the pairen police turned the fourteen Japanese,
held in connection with narcotic smuggling in South Manchuria,
over to the Public Procurator, who after a preliminary hearing
indicted them with violating the Regulations for the Control of
Narcotics in the Kwantun Leased Terr. ory.
6
LN

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
October 11 1930.
Attentiont Parenn of Narcoties
894C.
the Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Hamorable the Seeretary of the Treasury and, with
referemee to this Department's letter of October 1, l9s0,
tramsmits herewith, as of interest to the Burean of Nar-
4
eeties, a eow of despatoh No. 124, dated September 18,
N
AR
1950, frem the American Consul at Dairen, regarding the
COTI
illieit traffic in the Iwantung Leased Territory in a
marestie drag originally reported as "bensoin" but now
SS
Gemeribed as "bensoline".
The provision of Ewantung Government Order No. 54.
/20
to which the Cansul refers, merely specifies that drugs
semsidered as nareotios under the law inclade those whish
have effests similar to morphine, cocaine and derivatives
theresf emd are designated as nareoties by the Govermer.
Owing te the diffieulty of translating inte mglisk
the new Japanese seientifie terms applied to druge recestly

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.85)
intredused, it is possible that the drug in question
is bansoylmorphine. It will be noted. from the Consul's
report, that the substamee has a high morphine content.
Pmolosure:
Gopw of despatoh No. 124.
dated September 13, 1930, from
Deires.
A true copy of
the signed orig-
M
eR
0ot. 10.1930.PM
haJF1mP
AS

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
4FE
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 12, 1931.
No. 137.
MAR1231
H
S
FAASTEHN AFFAIHS
894C
1931
Copy taken
at slnt t Tc
)rimich 14, 123: int
NARCOTICS/21
Tes
A 1931
FLLED
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
iashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith for the
1/2/ information of the Department three clip ings from
3/.
the Japan Chronicle co oerning proseoution before
the Dairen Distriot Court of residents of the city
oharged with drug smuggling.
Respectfully yours,
Cusqui N oma
Enclosures:
1-3. Clippings
from Japan Chroniole
of February 4th, 5th
and 7th.
Eugene H. Dooman,
Charge d'Affaires ad interim.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
137.
Despatoh No.
From Amerioan Embassy
The Japan Chronicle.
Tokyo.
Kobe, Wednesday, February 4, 19et.
DRUG SMUGGLING.
At the outset. Mr. Otaguro, one of the
counsel for the defence, raised the ques-
tion whether the drugs which the accused
had smuggled were actually included in
RING WHICH SOLD Y2,200,000 WORTH
the contraband list as published by the
authorities. It appears that this list was
OF DOPE.
imperfect, and was subsequently amended
by a supplementary notice; but still, coun-
TRIAL IN DAIREN.
sel maintained, his clients were entitled to
be cleared of the charge owing to the
particular drugs which they had smuggled
Charges of smuggling benzoylin, in-
not being properly defined.
volving T. Shirakawa. ex-M.P.. M. Kawai
The Judge consented to the summoning
(ex-Chief-of-Police, Mukden) T. Kawa-
of experts to discuss this point, but mean-
mura (ex-Director of the Dairen Share
while went on with the case.
and Stock Exchange), S. Tanabe (ex-
Komatsu was the first to be examined
Managing Director of the Mérchandise
and owned up to the facts.
Exchange T. & G. Co.), K. Matsduchi. a
Under the impression that the business
prominent chemical merchant of Dairen,
was quite legitimate. he had invested
and six others had their first public hear-
330,000 on Tani's request, and received
ing in the Dairen District Court at 10 a.m.
430,000 in October, 1928, the interest and
on January 29th. Chief Judge Morimoto
forfeit put together. but dented any.
presiding. with Judges Nagashima and
criminal motive.
Oda. Public Procurator Oka conducted
Kawakami was the next to be tried.
the prosecution.
This accused readily confirmed the facts,
The Counsel for defence included Mr.
and when asked what net profit they had
Ohtaguro (ex-Chief Public Procurator of
made in the deal. replied that the sum
the Osaka District Court). Mr. Akiyama.
was ¥200.000 or so. distributed as under:
Mr. Nakamura. and Mr. Takayanagi (all
42,000 for himself. the remainder go-
from Japan proper), besides eleven local
ing. by his supposition into the pockets
barristers including Messrs. Tatsukawa.
of Shirakawa and Kawamura.
Saito, Ohuchi (Chairman of the Muni-
cipal Council), and Sugino (the last men-
THE ERRATUM QUESTION.
tioned gentleman being ex-Mayor of Dai-
Referring to the Kwantung Government
ren).
erratum issue. the question of validity of
His Honour ordered Prisoner Tanabe to
the same erratum seems to depend upon
leave court, since the prisoner would be
how the original text of the same Ordin-
tried at the same time as the charge of
ance ran at the time of its first publica-
embezzlement in connection with the
tion, and the counsel for the defence are
Merchandise Exchange T. & G. Co. is
likely to ask for the actual text to be
brought up.
brought into court for actual examination.
Then. Public Procurator Oka set forth
According to the counsel. the question
the charges against the respective prison-
hangs upon whether the "salts of the
ers alleging:—
derivatives" are found in the original
(1) Komatsu. Tani, Kamano. and
text. If so. the omission may be accepted
Suzuki conspired to smuggle in benzoylin
as a mere clerical error, but, otherwise,
(1,915 grammes valued at y630,000) in 5
the same erratum should be pronounced
lots from March, 1928, deceiving the au-
to lack legal binding force.
thorities into believing that the contraband
It then follows that. in case of the
in question was already on its way to
omission having been made after the pub-
Dairen, in anticipation of the issue of
lication of the Ordinance. the Kwantung
the regulations including morphine and
Government would have to answer for
25, 1927.
(2) Kawakami, Kawamura, and Shi-
rakawa smuggled in 600 kilogrammes
heroin and 2,400 kilogrammes benzoylin,
valued at 990,000 in 15 lots from June.
1928, by the same deceptive means.
(3) Matsuuchi, Tanabe, and Yonezawa
smuggled in from Germany 1,850 kilo-
grammes benzoylin valued at 600,000 in 6
lots from October, 1928, by the same de-
ceptive means.
Prisoner Shirakawa presented as a
bribe to Kawai, then Superintendent of
the Sanitation Ofce, Kwantung Govern-
ment, a platinum watch valued at 288
in token of his appreciation of various
facilities rendered in connection with the
case, and the gift was accepted.
A draft cheque of.200 each was pre-
sented to Dr. Kuroi and Chikamori, both
of the Kwantung Government, but was
refused and returned.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.2
Despatch No.37.
The Japan Chronicle
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
Kobe, Thursday, February 5, 1931
DAIREN DRUG SCANDAL.
EXPERT DECLARES DRUG COVERED BY REGULATIONS.
SHIRAKAWA'S FRANK CONFESSION.
On the 30th ultimo the second hearing
got wind of Komatsu being allowed to im-
took place in the Dairen District Court of
port the stuff with the understanding of
the case in which a dozen men, including
the Kwantung Government. Asked by
an ex-member of the Diet, a former
Kawamura to sound the Kwantung Gov-
Chief of Police, and other prominent
ernment people on this point, I thought
persons are charged with the illegal im-
that the reservation that " the goods were
portation and sale of morphine drugs
on the way" mentioned in clause 3 of the
amounting to over two million yen in
regulations could be easily obtained, pro-
value. Chief Judge Morimoto presided
vided the Governor of Kwantung gave
and Procurator Oka prosecuted.
permission. While in Parliament I sat
The court was not so crowded as on the
next to Governor Kinoshita, and I thought
preceding day, but was quite full. T.
of paying him a visit (slinging everything
Kawamura, ex-Director of the Dairen
concerning the contract to buy benzyl on
Sharestock Exchange, was examined.
Kawakami's shoulder). One day, accom-
He admitted the import of 2,400 kilo-
panied by Kawakami, I called on Gov-
grammes of benzyl and 600 kilogrammes
ernor Kinoshita and requested him to
of heroin from Germany, and owned that
permit the import. The Governor said
they fell under the head of " Salts of Mor-
that, as he had had just come to his new
phine Derivatives." He further half ad-
post and understood nothing, I should see
mitted that, he had been party to hood-
the Police Director. The Director said
winking the authorities, by false declara-
that the thing could not be so easily ar-
tions as to dates of shipment. He stated
ranged because of its relation to the
that he, with Shirakawa, had put up
League of Nations, and advised me to con-
200,000 each, and that the profit had
sult the Sanitation Superintendent, in-
been divided among himself, Kawakami
troducing me to Kawai. Kawai then re-
and Shirakawa in the respective sums of
marked that the amount of benzyl being
¥120,000, ¥42,000, and ¥230,000.
3,000 kilogrammes, its import would be
The audience were visibly agitated when
impossible because of the understanding
they heard of such high profits made so
with the League of Nations, even though
easily in these hard times.
the Governor had authority to permit the
Next, K. Matsuuchi, who maintains an
import. Between Kawai's words I could
extensive medicine store in Ise-machi,
infer that the position of the Kwantung
Dairen, was examined.
Government would be eased if the ship-
The bulk of 1,959 kilogrammes of the
ment was made amenable to clause 3 of
narcotic, valued at ¥600,000, had been
the regulations. Then, I explained to
seized by the police, and he is the party
Kawai the broad interpretation I had in
most deeply involved financially in the
mind, and rceived a practical endorsement
different benzyl cases.
from him. When I next met the Police
He half owned that he had sent Yone-
Director, I ventured to say that Komatsu's
zawa, an accomplice, to Germany, in order
import was due to the understanding of
to arrange that the stocks should appear
Kwantung Government, and was assented
to have already been shipped out at the
to. Next I remarked that our case being
time of the issue of the regulations gov-
similar to Komatsu's, it might be dealt
erning narcotics.
with similarly. Then, Kubo said that a
He stated that he had intended to show
newspaper advertisement would appear,
his appreciation of the services done by
saying that those who would apply within
Tanabe (ex-Managing Director of the
a month, would be permitted to import,
Merchandise Exchange T. & G. Co.) if the
advising me to send in an application
deal had come out lucratively, but nothing
then.
had been done because of the seizure of
"Shortly afterwards, Kawai notified me
the goods by the Police. He incidentally
that the desired assent being available
cast his eyes upon the package in front of
for the importation, an application should
him containing the benzyl. As regards
be sent in.
Yonezawa, Matsuuchi said that. as Yone-
"Then. I asked for a written permis-
zawa was then going to Germany in con-
sion against possible transfer of the Gov-
nection with his service. Yonezawa had
ernor. Then Kawai stated that it was no
been asked to take out a certificate from
permission. but a connivance. and could
the Hamburg firm and handed him a
not be put in writing. I said that, as I
letter of introduction. feigning at first that
should present the following test case, a
Yonezawa had not been taken into guilty
definite answer might be given thereto.
confdence His Honour then pressed him
Goods being fetched from the manufac-
hard on this point until Matsuuchi half
turers by the business firm which has
owned that he had requested him to get
sold the stock might be considered to be
the certificate written out in such a way
in transit.
as to make it appear that the goods had
"A few days later, in the name of the
been shipped carlier
Police Director. a reply was addressed to
Yonezawa was questioned on the same
Kawakami. saying that my own interpre-
point. but consistently denied a criminal
tation being acceptable. the import would
motive. and said he had received only
be allowed. provided it be accompanied
2.000 for travelling expenses
with a certificate issued by the Japanese
At 1 pm. T Shirakawa. the central
authorities abroad.
figure in the case. being next on the list
"I could not yet feel my ground quite
for examination. the court was crowded
sure. so I called on Governor Kinoshita
examined. T Shirakawa. ex-M.P. in haort
with new comers
After Suzuki of the Komatsu clique was
again to ask him for the import permit.
Government reply, since it had been pas-
sed by the Administration Council of
but he assured me of the validity of the
and hakama. stood in dock.
He began with part of his life history.
Kwantung Government. All my misgiving
was then removed. remembering that
saying—
"I was treasurer of the village office of
Chief Public Procurator Yasuoka himself
my native place when 19 years old and
was on the Councli."
Shirakawa then read aloud the offcial
was returned to Parliament at the age of
note received from Kwantung Glovern-
. After being unseated from Parlia-
ment. in connection with the bribing of
ment
He continued:—
M.P's under the Okuma Ministry. I en-
"On recelpt of the above mentioned
tered into bustnes
note. I started for Germany on April 28th
When interrogated as to his fnancial
of the same year, carrying with me a
status. he said that the Shirakawa Bank
power of attorney from Kawakami. Once
owned w2.s00.000: the Shirakawas 70.000.
in Germany I asked Lecturer 'I akayasu of
and he
himself 400.000
totalling
the Kyuahu Imperial University, a re-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
tive. and sald he had recsived only
wa,000 for travelling expenees.
with a certaneate lasued by the Japanase
At 1 p.m., T. Shirakawa. the central
authorities abroad.
fgure in the case, being next on the list
"I could not yet feel my ground quite
examimation, the court was crowded
sure, so I called on Clovernor Kino
again to ask him for the
After Buaskd of the Komaten clique was
we-, in heort
Ministry, I en-
Shirakawa Bank
000; the Shirakawas 70,000,
3,000,000.
and
he
himself
400,000
totalling
In Glermany I asked Leoturer 'Takayasu of
the Kyuahu Imperial University, a re-
He then admitted that, in collusion with
lative of mine. then in Germany, to
Kawamura and Kawakami, he had im-
officiate as interpreter, and obtained a
ported 2,400 kilogrammes of benzyl and
certificate of dispatch from the Hinriksen
600 kilogrammes of heroin from the
Co., a duplicate of the railway transporta-
Hinriksen Co., Germany, in 14 lots from
tion bill, a certificate by a notary public.
June, 192s, saying that the first shipment
and another issued by the Japanese Con-
took place in June, 1928.
sular authorities, which completed the list
The later proceedings may better be put
of documents required by Kwantung Gov-
in a serial form of queries and answers.
ernment.
"Then, I wired to Kawamura, Dairen,
the queries being put by the Court.
for the remittance. The first remittance
1927, the first shipment above referred to
of narcotics being out on September 28th.
The regulations prohibiting the import
310,000, as issued by a well-known Osaka
took the form of a letter of credit for
was for 62,000. Th second remittance
did not fall under the head of "goods in
transit " according to clause 3 of the re-
firm, and I further got the Dairen Branch
of the Y.S.B. to remit to me £29,500."
Hinriksen Co. was then obtaining the
gulations.
Shirakawa: I disagree. The seller, the
amount to saying that you had the
certificates made out to give the impres-
The Court: Do not all your statements
carry out the bargain terms with us, and
goods from the manufacturers, in order to
slon that the goods were on the way.
Shirakawa: I thought differently then.
that made the goods " in transit" broadly
I had no wish to make money by break-
interpreted. The Kwantung Government
ing the law. Particularly, the Governor
authorities, too, held a similar view.
said I might import the stuff, if in a
He then brought out all the facts con-
small amount. When I got into trouble
nected with the negotiations with Mr. K.
concerning this case, the idea flashed
Kinoshita, then Governor of Kwantung.
across my mind that, because of the
Mr. T. Kubo, then Director of the Police
change of the Governor. I was going to
Bureau, etc.
be made a sacrifice on the altar of party
The case of Shirakawa's gift to M.
politics. I had conformed to the decision
Kwai, ex-Chief-of-Police, Mukden. and
of the Administrafive Council of which
previously Superintendent of the Sanita-
Chief Public Procurator Yasuoka was a
tion Offce, of Kwantung Government.
member. and been arrested by a public
was then taken up.
procurator under him. a thing that passes
The Court: Did you call on Kawai at
my comprehension.
his official residence and present him with
When asked how the profit was divided.
a platinum watch with chain. valued at
Shirakawa answered that he had taken
¥288 ?
about 200,000. inclusive fo some invested
Shirakawa: Yes.
capital. adding that. through the effort
Did you send cheques for Y2o0 to Dr.
of the Public Procurator. the disposal of
Kuroi. Hygtenic Expert. and Chikamori.
the money must have been made quite
both of Kwantung Government. in Sept-
clear.
ember. 1929. and were they not returned
in each case ?
VERDICT OF EXPERT.
Yes.
Dr. R. Goto of the S.M.R. Co. Hygienic
His Honour: What made you send the
Institute presented at 1 p.m. on the 30th
platinum watch to Kawai?
his verdict upon the technical classifica-
I called on him occasionally and ob-
tion of benzyl and heroin in commercial
tained various facilities, and intended it
terms. as required by the court.
to be a gift. In this respect. I made a bad
In this verdict, the expert chemist
mistake, and cast a gloom on the future
says:—
of a promising young man. for which I
What are commonly known as bensyl
feel very sorry. I am not prepared to
(or hyrochloride of benzyl morphine) and
admit guilty liability regarding the benzyl,
heroin (or hyrochloride of diacetyl mor-
but as regards the platinum watch I ac-
phine) fall under the head of Salts of
cept entire responsibility.
Derivatives.
This being so, the chemicals imported
KAWAI EXAMINED.
in the cases under notice are included in
Kawai was then put in the dock.
the prohibitions named in the Kwantung
The Court: Did you not think the gift
Government regulations, through its er-
of the watch a token of thanks for the
ratum in question.
successful import of benzyl ?
Kawai: I did not think so. I accepted
it as a mere social courtesy.
Happening to be at the head of the
Sanitation Offce, I should think that the
present might give you a hint to see if any
member of your staff, too, was the reci-
pient of a like gift, and to give a warning.
if there was any such.
I agree with you, but I happened to be
classmate with a son of Shirakawa in the
Fourth Higher School, and felt quite in-
timate towards him. So I thought it im-
polite to return the gift, and accepted it.
Court adjourned for the day.
SHIRAKAWA MAKES A CLEAN
BREAST.
Shirakawa's statement giving the inside
facts concerning his negotiations with
Messrs. Kinoshita and Kubo, then of the
Kwantung Government, runs as follows:
"Giving the matter a broad interpreta-
tion, I could not understand why the
Kwantung Government would permit only
such goods as were acoompanied with a
.csrtiflcate to the effect that they had
already been shipped at the time of the
promulgatten of the regulstions. Then, I

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.
Despatoh No.
137
The Japan Chronicle
From American Embassy
Tokyo.
Kobe, aturday, February 7, 1931.
THE DEFECTIVE REGULATIONS.
THE DAIREN DRUG
The summons of Chikamori might be
CASE.
dispensed with, considering the real ob-
ject of the issue of the Government Or-
dinance in question. When a mistake was
discovered in the Ordinance text, the
MORE PROMINENT NAMES MEN
mistake need not be corrected necessarily
by a fresh Ordinance. In fact, if neces-
TIONED IN COURT HEARING.
sary, corrections might be repeated. Be-
sides Chikamori was then in Government
service. and in the light of the service dis-
DIET MEMBER AS MEDIATOR.
cipline. he cannot very well give testimony.
Touching upon the production of the
original draft of the same Ordinance, he
In the Dairen District Court. Chief
said that it was a Government secret
Judge Morimoto presiding. the hearing
and. even if applied for, a loan was con-
was resumed of the drug smuggling
sidered as difficult.
charges against six Dairen residents. in-
He went on:—
cluding an ex-Diet member.
As regards the depositions by Yoshida.
the facts are quite plain from his de-
His Honour started to read aloud Koma-
positions in the Preliminary Court.
tsu's depositions. The name of Chief
The flat denial of all requests roused
Secretary Mori of the Seiyukai Party ap-
Barrister Ohtaguro. Barrister Akiyama
peared. followed by those of ex-Public
also criticized Mr. Oka's attitude as re-
Procurator Mitani of the local Court.
grettable. Barrister Nakamura thought
Barrister Gosen of Dairen. and K. Sa-
the Public Procurator's view worthy of
wada. Ex-President Yamazaki of the
feudal days. The Public Procurator made
Manshu Nippo. a Seiyukai M.P., was as-
counter-replies. and the heated con-
sociated in mediation between parties who
troversy was suspended only through the
had fallen out with each other.
intercession of the presiding Judge.
Then, the collection of evidence by
Later His Honour examined M. Kawai as
counsel for the defence was taken up.
to his relationship to Shirakawa and asked
Mr. Ohtaguro asked for the summons to
for Mr. Oka's opinion.
court of Dr. Takayasu of the Kyushu Im-
The Public Procurator said:—
perial University. a relative of Shiraka-
I need not reiterate particulars about
wa's. Mr. Chikamori, ex-Government ofli-
Kawai. Kawai says he accepted the
cial. who was responsible for the drafting
platinum watch as a friendly gift, and
and publication of the Kwantung Govern-
the circumstances surrounding the mat-
ment Ordinance concerning the Regula-
ter. were as set forth plainly in the de-
tions governing Narcotics in 1927, and K.
positions made in the preliminary court.
Tomoda (who is alleged to have pointed
Personally. I am in sympathy with Kawai,
out to Chikamori the flaw in the Ordin-
but the presentation took place after the
ance that fell short of prohibiting benzy-
drug deal had been wound up. I note,
lin). The barrister further requested the
that the case has extenuating circum-
production of the original text of the Gov-
stances, but it is wrong for any Govern-
ernment Ordinance.
ment official to accept a present elther in
Barrister Gosen asked for the sum-
cash or in kind. Considering all, I ask
mons of Tominaga. and Inouye, both con-
four months' penal servitude for Kawai.
cerned with the publication of the Kwan-
Barrister Akiyama, in Kawai's defence,
tung Government Ofilatal Gazette.
called the imposition of a prison sentence
All these requests were referred by His
upon a promising young man as unneces-
Honour to the Public Procurator. where-
sarily severe.
upon Mr. Oka replied:—
His Honour, on consulting with As-
Concerning Dr. Takayasu, at the outset
sociate Judges Nagashima and Oda, re-
of the case, a warrant was issued against
jected the summons of Dr. Takayasu for
Shirakawa and a search made at his
Shirakawa. and of Yoshida as witness,
home. At that time, the details of the
while the other requests by the barristers.
case were published with both headlines
excepting that for producing the original
in the press. About February, 1930, Dr.
draft of the Ordinance text, were com-
Takayasu who was in Fukuoka, handed a
plied with.
letter to one of Shirakawa's sons, and
again, about March. when Shirakawa
stopped at Pukuoka just before giving
himself up, the Doctor met him. Dr. Ta-
kayasu could not be expected to give an
impartial opinion in court.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.90)
March 16 1981.
Attentiom: Buream of Bareoties
SH
the Sesretary of State presents his compliments
toe the Eemsrable the Secretary of the Treasury and.
894C
with reference to this Department's letter of Cotober 1l.
19se, emsleess herewith, for the information of the Com-
mimsiamer of Narceties, a copy of despatoh No. l37, dated
Pebraary 12, 1931, from the Charg6 d'Affaires at Takye,
4
with sspies of ite enelesures, in regard te the proseeu-
NARCOTICS/22
timm of eurtaim persons fer complicity in illieit traffis
in bemsaylin and heroin in Dairen.
Enslesare:
Oow of despatoh No: 157,
dated Nebruary 12, 1951, from
Tekys.
Mar.16,1981.
CB
A true eopy ef
FRSOP1MP
the signed orig-
son

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.95)
June 1 1981.
reply refer to
Attentloni Dureau of Hareetice
894C.114 NARCOTICS/23
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and transmits
herewith, for the informtion of the Comissiomer of
Mareoties, photostat copy of a olipping from the Japan
Chremiele for April 24, 1931, 1n regard to the Govermmnt
Opium Monopoly in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
Enolosure:
Photostat eopy of
elipping from Japanese
Chroniole for April 24,
1931.
EJon.1,1081
orie
QAM
::
inel.
5/29/31
A

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.88)
71
She Jepam Darealele,
Kebe, Priaay, Aps11 24, 1982.
The Japan Chronicle
-Kobe, Friday, April 24, 1931.
AN OPIUM MONOPOLY.
THE PROFITS OF SUPPRESSSON.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
June 30 1951.
In reply refer to
894 C.114 Marootios
Attentlen: Parean of Hareesicg
The Aoting Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Eonorable the Aeting Secretary of the Treasury and
894C.
emeloses herewith, for the informtion of the Acting Com-
ssioner of Narootios, a photostat copy of a clipping from
the JAPAN WEKKLY CHRONICLK for Jume 4, 1931, 1n rogard to a
14 NARCOTIC
seizure of morphine effected in Dairen and in regard to the
prosecution of Asada Mantaro, Kitada Kyoj1 and Asa1 Sentaro
for 1llieit traffio in narcotios at Osaka.
The American Consul at Dairen 1s being instruoted to
report on the Dairen oase.
S
/24
Enclosure:
Photostat copy of
olipping from the
JAPAN WEKKLY CHRONICLE
fer Jume 4, 1931.
pau.
E:SJF:IM
FE
CR
6/29/3à
Jun. 29.19: p

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
Sune 1th. 191.]
THHE JAPAN WEEKLY CHRONICLE.
619
COTTON RESTRICTION|MORPHINE IN DAIREN
DRUG GANG ARRESTED
ALLEVIATION
Y3,000.000 WORTH IMPORTED) BY
A BIG SEIZURE
OSAKA DOPE RIN
SPINNERS LIKELY TO MODIFY
A: 1 pm on the Monday (18th: May).
Aada Mantaro and Kitadaj Koji. .
PRESINT HIGH RATE
Chief-of-Police Ishil. Dairen after secret
director and nuditor of Mes Kitaya
consultation with Public Procurator Ike-
& Co., importers of drugs. at lbi hi 3-
uchi. mobil'sed the police court detectives
chome. Higashi-ku. Osaka. liich w
and sen: it picked detalls in motor cars
dissolved in June last year. werr ::sted
SURRENDER TO WEAVERS
and on motor cycles to the Showa Yoko
on the 25th ultimo on writs :  d by
on the pr mises of the Daircn branch of
Preliminary Judge Tomita. of :ne Oak
the Med' ne Mfg. Co. Tokyo. In Mikasa
Chiho Baibansho. on a chargel! viola:ing
On and afte: October Ist. Japanese
mach: "atren. After  thorouzh search
the law for the control of nakcotics. and
cotton spinners are likely to work on a
made ver the place. morphine stock in 7
detained in Ki:a-ku Prison. Tnc cax la
20 per cent. spind e restriction. with four
kero  tns and 2 larger ins. valued at
been engaging the attention of the O.
holidavs a hoonth They could adjust rea-
abou Ys0 o00 wa, seized. 3 clerks and
Procurator's Omce for some time
ction by flve per cent. but do not con.
12 rands. all Japanese heing taken inio
The charge laid inst thé ac
ider t. necessary to effect any adjusi-
police custody
that they have smuggled morphin
men at the moment.
T Nukagn the representative of the
cocaine. etc to the value of Y3 r00 o
The decison will be made on or im-
frm. being ill in bed. his summons to the
One of :lieir accomplices. Aal Sent.to
June Sth ard then a round tabie n-
 Gosankal meting wil! be held n
mdtatciy alter June 4th. when the May
productlon statistles will be lsued. Thi
pert, and two or three partners of the frm
ture. Kanazawa. who served ps chtef ex-
real prime-mover of the illicit manufac-
Police Omce has.been put of Hori. the
these muggled goods. it is ulleged. u.r
Is now in Shanghai The huppliers :
chiefiy cer:ain frms in Hamburg. G:-
many The gang has been oe.
by the general meeting of :h. Prcki
terenee of sp.nners and weaves. tollewed
danger. with the poliee hot on their trail.
had decamped the momen: they scented
since 1928. the smuggled goods being s0..
In Japan through a drug shop in Osaka.
deciston a ltthe eariter They ave been
n dopute with yarn dealers over the
Spinners
Spineets wil be expected to make their
Rengo Poderaton of Master Cot n
ands tht the Company has been smug-
fined morohine or in course of refirement.
the S.M R Co Hyglenie Institute for -a anese clerks in foreign firma. it is n leged
echnical analysis as to_whether it is re.
The Manchirta Daily Ners under
The seized stock has been submiited to
used for smuggling and the seemingly
tion of the case has been af:ended with
legal procedure of disposal. the inves  ga-
and by accomplices. among whom ar Jap
What with the very skilfui me:hod.
suggested mod:neatpon of ive per cent
dealers have purchass? nothing Tor de-
Iivery fter October. but this is a great
penventence to both parties. partleularly
rtallment rate Deatsled with the
while carrving on illieit manufacture of
vera! years past. and been passing off
 manufacturers of patent medicines
pling from Shanghal. Tientsin. etc.. for
great difculties. The Osakh police ex-
evidence.
churta in order to get poesussion (
tended their activity to China and Man-
chnce is to siart tranesctions for De-
n  w of the fact that the Sampin Ex-
morphine.
An ex-detective of the Datren Police
Kiada. have been living luxuriously the
The ringleaders of the gans. Asat an:
ember delivery on June Is:
The rea on yhy pinners have besitat-
materials from South China. The refined
ou'put has been offered for extensive
has been attending to the import of
Shukugawa and the latter at Takaradruka
former with a magnificent residence a
rd i making any carlter dectston is two
sccret sales in different countries.
fold First. the 20 per cent. spindle res-
This lllicit enterprise has been in pro-
S.M. RAILWAY ECONOMIES
trictkon with four holidays a month is
sress for years, and police raids have been
qus! to an alleytation of the current pro-
made more than once. but the men have
ducten cur:atiment schedule for April to
been too slick for the police. what stock
RENDERED NECESSARY BY
Jun· by 36 per cent and spinners were
sppr honsivo of the possible effect on the
there was having been dissolved in water
and thrown away in the sewage to destroy
VIGOROUS CHINESE COMPETITION
cotton yarn market Second. if spin-
the evidence of guilt. Besides. a few
with the movement of the striped tissue
…! The American cotton crop this year
 xpxcted to be much heavier than usual.
weaters tor the establishment of bonded
rate by ive per cent. then ! would crash
mills
ner: extnd their production curtailment
The posi: ton. howrever. has siner chang-
ports the setzure of yet another factory
in amount than expected. and more is
supposed to be kept concealed somewhere
else.
feroclous watch dogs have been kept at
the entrance to keep off the inquisitive.
The same lasue of the Datren paper re-
The stock recovered was much smaller
churir Rallway Company are go trom
rer nue is anticipated. The managenn:
of the Company has therefore dec:d:d to
bad to worse. and a further diclinc :n
siump and other unfavourbic fat
bustness conditions of the S.u:h Min-
petition by Chinese interests the 
What with the worid depresson. coxr.
And the quotations likely to continue to
i..: llits will reflect on the cotton yarn
and remarks on Japanese expertness in
the extraction of alkaloids.
make a drastic curtallment in expenditure
for the present business yeir. and plan.
that the market will not suffer abruptly.
mir't herr. but it is generally belleved
are being worked out in detail.
:he decrea ed production season. The
particularly in view of the approach of
Y69,000 WILL CASE
the cost of materials by 75,800.000 and the
The Company evidently Intends to cu:
Uni cd States owns 9.000.000 bales in stock.
cost of personnel by about Y2.00o c0o.
movement. may cause quotations to rule
.ind this. together with the new crop
AMERICAN MISSIONARY AND AN
however. be left intact, the pruning knife
The regular salaries of the oficials will.
lower Japanese spinners should bear
ADOPTED DAUGHTER
being expected to be applied to the addi-
this in mind and endeavour to make
tional dalaries for sevice in Manchuria.
ment is therefore welcome. Moreover, it
ltable to occasion an increased import of
The alleviation of the production curtail-
14 pointed out that too strict an adher-
(ne" to the high rate of restriction la
increased quantity at moderate prices.
and rpin at low cost, so as to export an
spinnera to procure cheap raw material
covor at low levels of their future require-
menta. It la the aim of all Japanesc
stonary. brought a suit in Beoul Local
Eighteenth Bank) demanding recognition
of his claim on the deposlt of ges,sse de-
posited in the Bank by his aister, and won
the case. the Local Court pronouncing
J. H. Lewis. brother of the late BMlas I.
A. Lewis. formerly an American mis-
Court against the Jyuhachi Ginko (the
According to Beoul press reports Mr.
Sengoku, the President, formal desusion
40 to 180 per cent, according to the loca-
pany destre to earry out these reduc:v
quiekly, but owing to the lliness of Dr
of additional salaries vary at present from
Pamily allowaness will abo suffer a re
duction.
China and soreign countries. The ra:cs
tion of pasta.
The authorities of the Rallwav Com-
Chinesc yarn. which factor has been the
cuase of complaint for some time.
judgement in his favour. The Bank, how-
ever, appealed. holding that Mr. Lewis
had no valid claim upon the depostt on
barrassment, saye the Asn.
imevitably delayed, to their no small- cm-
In consideration of the foregoing. spin-
the ground that Yun Wha Chung who had
ners are now convinced that the produc-
Lion schedule after October lat should be
gained the favour of Mias Lewis drawing
TWO WOMEN MURDERED
fixed at a 20 per cent. spindle restriction.
to give the sugsested schedule ready con-
mittce of the Boseki Rengokal is expected
with four holidays a month. The Com-
Chang Myong Bhin, who was Mins Lewie's
Another two mystertbus murders arc rc-
firmation.
One of the victiame is a young woman.
It is significant that spinners who have
been adhering to the high rate of pro-
carried to Keijo Court of Cassation. The
duction curtaiiment since the beginning
court of second instance concluded its es-
of the year are now inclined to ncrease
their production. They have already
succeeded in bringing down their odst of
production, so that if spinners adjust pro-
duction properly, and buy raw cotton
cheap. they will be able to make steady
headway in the overseas market.
mont in favour of Mr. J. H. Lewis. It is
dead in her house on the segh ultimo.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.93)
June 30 1981.
Williem R. Langden,
Ameriean Consul,
Dairen, Manohuria.
Sir:
The JAPAN WEEKLY CHRONICLE for June 4, 1931, contains
 artiele stating that the police in Dairen, on May 18,
894C.114 NARC0T1CS/25
195l, effected a large seisure of morphine on the promises
of the Dairen branch of the Medicine Manufacturing Company
in Mikase maeh1, Dairen and refers to a report in the
MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS of the disoovery of yet another
1llieit morphine faetery.
If you have not already done so, you are instrueted
to report fully on these cases and to tranamit copies of
the artieles on the subject published in the MAncHURIA
DAILY NEWS.
Very truly yours,
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Asting Beeretary of State.
804 C.114 Marcsties
Dame
A true copy of
JUNE 29 1981.
the adgned orig-
Routine

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
19
198-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairn. Manchuria, June 4, 1931.
SUBJECT:
Bonzoylin Smuggling Case, Dairen.
1-1086 0 P0
Divis on of
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ang, 22, 1931.
THE HONORABLE
JUL 7 1931
Lm
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
FILE
WASHINGTON.
SiR:
Referring to my despatch to the Embassy at Tokyo
of June 30, 1930, and to my despatch No. 124 of
September 13, 1930, to the Department, regarding judi-
cial proceedings in the matter of extensive importations
of "benzoline," I have the honor to review the case more
fully and report its latest developments.
In order to discharge Japan's obligations under
the Geneva Opium Convention of 1925, the Kwantung
4 NARCOTICS
Government issued Order No. 54 Regulating the Control
of Narootics on September 28, 1927 (translation trans-
mitted with despatch No. 256 of October 22, 1927, from
this office). In the text of the Order as published in
the Kwantung Government Gazette, drugs considered as nar-
cotics for the purpose of the Law (Art. I, 1) were "mor-
2
9
phine, cocaine, and their salts and derivatives and arti-
oles containing them"(モ儿c木.ユ刀ン及其/温類又八誘導體若八含有物)
The wards "salts of derivatives" were purposely or inadvert-
ently omitted in the text, but the omission was remedied
by inserting an "errata" notification in the Gazette of
FILED
2
Oetober 6, 1927, reading as follows "The 8th line of
the

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
the 57th issue of the Gazette of the 28th ultimo (viz.,
Art. I, 1) should read "morphine, cocaine, their salts,
derivatives, and salts of derivatives, or articles
七ルヒネ、コカ：、其温類、う導骨又八
containing the aforesaid drugs."
誘尊體，塩類若八以上，藥品含有物
The text of the Order also carried supplementary
provisions under the third of which "the importation
of narcotics other than morphine and cocaine which
have been contracted for prior to the promulgation of
these regulations, with this fact duly certified, and
are in transit, will be permitted notwithstanding the
provisions contained in Article III," viz., will be
permitted without applying for or obtaining an import
permit from the Governor. By the same "Errata"
notification in the Gazette of October 6, 1927, the
words "morphine and cocaine" in this provision were
corrected to read "morphine, cocaine or their salts"
(又八其，塩類)
Under the provision allowing race to complete
existing contracts the following importations were
made:
Kilogrammes
(1) By S. Komatsu, Japanese druggist,
Dairen.
(Hydrochloric acid of ?) Benzoyl-
morphin
Outstanding order with Hoffman-
Laroche, Basel
900
New (illegal) order with same firm ..
1,000
By Komatsu's associate Tsunemitsu,
Japanese, Dairen,
Benzoylmorphin
Outstanding order with Heesch-
Henrichsen, Hamburg . .
400
New (illegal) order wi th same firm
1,000
Total Kilogrammes
3,300
Komatsu

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Komatau and Tsunemitau made affidavits
and seoured a Japanese consular certificate
that all the above cargo was orderad from
Hoffman-Laroche before October 1, 1927, the
date when Kwantung Government Order No. 54
became effective, and succeeded in importing
it all into Dairen, by parcel post, between
May 12 and June 21, 1928. The entire 1ot
was marketed.
Kilogrammes
(2) By T. Shirakawa, ex-Member of Japanese Diet.
Faked a telegram from a confederate in
Germany, Kawakami, antedating the
operation of the Order, and on strength
thereof in May 1928 purchased . .
Benzoylmorphin, from Heesch-Henrichsen,
Hamburg, . . .
2,400
Diacetylmorphin (heroin), from same firm
600
Total Kilogrammes
3,000
The entire lot was imported by mail be-
tween July 22 and December 18, 1928, and mar-
keted.
(3) By K. Matguuchi, Japanese, pr oprie tor of
Matsuuchi Nanyo-Do Pharmacy, Dairen.
Faked telegraphic contract with Boeh-
ringer & Sohn, Hamburg, end ordered
from them Benzoylmorphin . . . .
1,900
Mail importation detected by police in
January 1930, and 1,350 kilos confiscated.
Thus through official indifference or carelessness,
or possibly connivance as will subsequently appear,
5,550 kilogrammes of narcotic drugs were imported un-
lawfully into Dairen and di sposed of to retail traffickers.
The foregoing operations took place during the ad-
ministration of the Governors Count Kodama and Kinoshita,
Seiyukai appointees, and were terminated and exposed
soon after Governor Ohta, of the Minseito Party,
succeeded him.
As was stated in my despatch of September/13, 1930,
the persons indicted in this case were released on bail,
with no date fixed for the trial at the time. Subse-
quently

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
quently April 23, 1931, was set for the trial.
At
this trial, in the Dairen District Court, the accused
defended themselves on the tround that Goverument
Order No. 54 of September 28, 1927, did not include
benzoylmorphin and diacetylmorphin, which are salts
of morphin or cocain derivatives, among the prohibited
drugs, and that a subsecuent erratun including them did
not have the force of law.
The suspicion had developed
in the meantime that the ori, inal text of the Order had
been deliberately altered to exclude salts of derivatives,
and when the point of the validity of the erratum was
raised, the trial took a new turn: the tampering of the
text of the
Order to suit the purposes of the accused.
A drafting official of the Kvrantung Government,
Chikamori, testified that he had submitted is draft of
the Order to Public Tealth Superintendent Kawai on
September 22, 1927, who after mak in a few alterations,
laid it before the Le islation Council of the Kwantung
Government, which passed it on September 25, 1927.
Dairen chemist called the omission of "derivatives of
salts" from the Order to the attention of Chikamori,
who then inf ormed Kawai of the omission.
Kawai
however, did not choose to publish a new order correct-
ing it, but instructed Chikamori to enter the omission
in red ink on the original text (so that the fault
would appear to have been the printer's), and eight
days later caused an erratum to be published in the
Gazette.
Following his testimony, Chikamori was charged
with forging official doaments and placed in jail.
Publio

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
Publio Procurators at the same time were instructed
to secure the test imony of Kwantung Goverment offi-
cials comprising the Legislati on Council at the t ime,
including Count Kodama. Kawai was summoned to Dai ren
and upon arrival detained by the police. Both he and
Chikamori were soon released on bail, however. The
next hearing of the case will be held on June 16, 1931.
The prevailing opinion is that if the unlawful altera-
tion of the text of the Order by Kawai and Chikamori is
proved, the prosecution of the benzoylin and heroin im-
porters will be dropped.
It might be added that Kawai was Chief of Police
of the Japanese Concession at Lukden in 1928 and 1929.
The foregoing account is based largely on press
accounts of the case and information furnished by my
Ge. ran colleague.
Respectfully yours,
AMRhagpoy
Wm. R. Langd on,
American Consul.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate Gene ral, Mukden.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
!91
No.
-199-
ANERICAN CONSULATE,
9
8Dairen/Manchuria, June 6, 1931.
SUBJECT :
Jotes on Narcotic Traffic,
1—1065 G P O
Strietly Confidential
THE HONORABLE
copy sent C
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
JUL 7 1931
5,113
WASHINGTON.
FILE
Lm.
8
SIR:
Copy n FE
94C.
s of possible interest to the Department, I have
the honor to report the following matters related to
4 NARCOTICS/27
the narcotic drug traffic in Dairen:
(1) Investigation

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
(1) Investigation of Mr. J. Slattery, Deputy In-
spector General of Police, Punjag, India.
Bearing an introduction from my British
Colleague, Mr. Slattery called on me last
month to inquire whe ther the Consulate had
any information regarding a narcotic plant
in Port Arthur. I replied that according
to a news item which appeared in the NORTH
CHINA DAILY NEWS in August 1929, the Mukden
Branch of the National Anti-Opium Association
of China had decided to bring to the attention
of the League of Nations, among other things,
the existence of a Japanese factory in Port
Arthur which was producing narcotics on a
large scale and wi thout government hindrance.
The Consulate was officially informed in this
conneotion, lowever, that outside of the Kwan-
tung Government Opium Monopoly Bureau's opium
refinery, there was no narcotic plant in the
Leased Territory.
Mr. Slattery stated that the purpose of
his visit to Japan and Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory was to discover if possible the source
of Fuji Tsuru (Mt. Fuji Crane) brand of
cocaine which for long had been seized on
Japanese travellers entering Hongkong, British
Malaysia and India. In Shanghai, Mr. Slattery
continued, U.S. Treasury Agent Nicholson had
remarked to him that he had "with his own eyes"
seen a narcotic plant in Port Arthur. Mr.
Slattery asked for partioulars, but Mr. Nichol-
son acted as though he had been indiscreet and
refused to speak any more about it. It was
Mr. Nicholson's remark, he explained, that
prompted him to visit Dairen.
Mr. Slattery said that he received no
help in his investigation from the Kwantung
authorities, to whom he had been introduced
through diplomatic channels. They denied
knowledge of any local plant which might be
manufacturing cocaine. A Chinese informent,
however, insisted that there was a narcotic
plant of some kind at Port Arthur, but would
not guide him there for fear of becoming in-
volved wi th the police.
"Fuji Tsuru" cocaine is put up in paper
packages. The label shows a crane flying
past Mount Fuji in the distance.
Mr. Slattery remained several days in
Dairen but was unable to learn anything re-
lated to the subject of his investigation.
While

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
While I have no information on which to found
such an opinion, I cannot help thinking that there
may have been some basis of fact in the alleged
Mukden Anti-Opium Association's protest to the League
of Nations regarding a narcotic faotory in Port Arthur.
Mr. Nicholson's chance remark to Mr. Slattery, the in-
sistence of Mr. Slattery's Chinese informant, the cor-
ruption among Kwantung Goverrment officials brought to
light recently in the benzoylin smuggling (see my des-
patch No. 178 of June 4, 1931) and other cases combine
to create the suspicion that there may have been some
such establishment operating unhindered by the police
in the quiet seclusion of Port Arthur.
(2) Rocent

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
(2) Recent Narcotic Cases
The Kwan tung Goverrment authorities in Da iren
displayed unusual activity in the last few weeks
suppressing illicit narcotic operations, and with no
small measure of success. According to the Japanese
press, they discovered and broke up four separate
groups engaged in this traffic, to wit:
Date of deteotion;
No. of
persons arrested, wanted,
Cases
or suspected by police
Details of case
(1)
April 28, 1931.
Ihara came to Dai ren to
T. Yamji, leader, Osaka.
transship to Osaka a ship-
S. Ihara, Osaka.
ment of coceine and salt de-
Proprietors Komatsu, of
rivatives wnich had arrived
Komatsu Pharmacy, Dairen.
from Germany. Acting upon
advices from the Osaka po-
lice, Ihara was traced and
captured. He confessed that
he was acting for Yamaji, and
that Yamaji had been engaged
in this traffic for many
years. Yamaji and three
others were captured in Osaka
on April 22. They confessed
that they were connected wth
an international narcotic
ring. Yen 4,000,000 of mor-
phine is said to have been
seized in Osaka.
Search was made for the
cocaine and salt derivatives
landed in Dairen and Yen
700,000 worth, distributed in
100 cases of beer, was dis-
oovered in the wharves and
aeized.
(2)
May 17, 1931.
Police discovered and
Kamamo, rice miller,
seized 8 bags of ecgonine
Dairen, leader.
(extract of coca leaves) on
Tani, Manager Samkyo (or
premises of Ohmasa. This
Sandai) Medicine Fac-
stock was evidently held for
tory, Dairen.
Showa Yoko (case 4 post).
Ohmasa, boat dealer, Dairen. Stock valued at Yen 50,000.
Kanda, Dairen.
Y. Suzaki, druggist, Tientsin.
T. Nukaga, Dairen, representa-
tive of Medicine Mfg. Co.
Tokyo.
S. Komatsu, pharmacist, Dairen.
7 other Dairen Japanese.
(3) May 19, 1931.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5-
Date of detection;
No. of
persons arrested, wanted,
Cases
or suspected by police
Details of case
(3)
May 19, 1931.
Kondo and 4 other Japan-
Fukukoryu Yakumen Seizosho,
ese arrested by police.
Kumoi-cho, Shakako,Dairen,
Confessed to having manu-
bandage factory.
factured 40 bags of 500
Motoi Kondo, proprietor.
grammes each of morphine
per month since May 1930.
Stock on premises seized.
(4)
May 20, 1931.
Scented trouble and can-
Showa Yoko, patent medicine
cealed stock, police only
dealers, Mikasa-machi,
discovering and seizing 9
Dairen.
kerosene tins of morphine
Accomplices: T. Mikaga,
valued at Yen 50,000. Plant
H. Hori, K. Kanazawa,
well equipped for morphine
Mysawa, Pharmist Koike,
manufacture. Trade mark of
etc.
morphine "Globe" (or Earth
Bali" - Chikyu), Made by
Poland Pharmaceutical Co."
Said to be sold in Japan,
China and foreign countries.
The suspicion arises in my mind that the activity
of the Dairen police was prompted to some extent by Mr.
Slattery's visit. Their swift and unerring measures
too indicate that they knew exactly where to s trike,
that no preliminary detective work was necessary.
In view of the possible bearing which the recent
benzoylin smuggling (see despatch No. 198 of June 4,
1931) and above-cited cases may have on the inter-
national traffic in narcotic drugs and on narcotic
smuggling into the United States, I am consulting the
Embassy as to the advisability of requesting the Governor
of Kwantung to furnish this office i th particulars of
the court and police hearing of these cases in conformity
with our informal agreement to exchange information re-
lating to illicit narootic traffio (vide Diplomatic
800.114216
Serial No. 887 o1 December 7,1929).
(3) Kwan tung

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Date of detection;
No. of
persons arrested, wanted,
Cases
or suspected by police
Details of case
(3)
May 19, 1931.
Kondo and 4 other Japan-
Fukukoryu Yakumen Seizosho,
ese arrested by police.
Kumoi-cho, Shakako,Dairen,
Confessed to having manu-
bandage factory.
factured 40 bags of 500
Motoi Kondo, proprietor.
grammes each of morphine
per month since May 1930.
Stock on premises seized.
(4)
May 20, 1931.
Scented trouble and can-
Showa Yoko, patent medicine
cealed stock, police only
dealers, Mikasa-machi,
discovering and seizing 9
Dairen.
kerosene tins of morphine
Accomplices: T. Mikaga,
valued at Yen 50,000. Plant
H. Hori, K. Kanazawa,
well equipped for morphine
Mysawa, Pharmist Koike,
manufacture. Trade mark of
etc.
morphine "Globe" (or Earth
Bali" - Chikyu), Made by
Poland Pharmaceutical Co."
Said to be sold in Japan,
China and foreign countries.
The suspicion arises in my mind that the activity
of the Dairen police was prompted to some extent by Mr.
Slattery's visit. Their swift and unerring measures
too indicate that they knew exactly where to s trike,
that no preliminary detective work was necessary.
In view of the possible bearing which the recent
benzoylin smuggling (see despatch No. 198 of June 4,
1931) and above-cited cases may have on the inter-
national traffic in narcotic drugs and on narcotic
smuggling into the United States, I am consulting the
Embassy as to the advisability of requesting the Governor
of Kwantung to furnish this office i th particulars of
the court and police hearing of these cases in conformity
with our informal agreement to exchange information re-
lating to illicit narootic traffio (vide Diplomatic
800.114216
201
Serial No. 887 o1 December 7,1929).
(3) Kwan tung

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
"Kwantung Government, too, is expected
to face an opportunity to consider a change
in its Monopoly system in future.
Especially, concerning Morphine, stock
confiscated in the Leased Territory having
been sold to Chosen, an opinion is raised
that, it be ing plainly incoherent to supply
what belongs to Kwantung Government to add
to the Monopoly stock in Chosen, the con-
fiscated morphine stock in the Leased Terri-
tory may be offered for sale and the proceeds
from the sale of the same be included in the
Government Budget i th the same degree of
licitness as in the case of the confiscated
opium.
Of course, the question whether Morphine
should be put under monopoly leaves room for
further study.
Respectfully yours,
Nh. P.Langhon
Wm. R. Langdon,
American Consul.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.93)
Jaly 8.19515
RIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narooties
The Aeting Seoretary of State presents his sempliments
894C.114 NARC0TI CS/28
to the Homorable the Aoting Secretary of the Treasury and,
with referense to this Department's letter of Jane 30, los1,
emeloses herewith, for the confidential information of the
Aeting Commissioner of Narco ics, a copy of confidential
despateh Mo. 199 dated June 6, 1931, from the Amerieam Comsul
at Dairen, in regard to the 1llicit traffic in narcotie drugs
in the Kwantung Leased Territory and the operations of the
Kwantang Govermment Opium Monopoly.
Eaelosure:
8
From Consulate, Dairen,
No. 199, June 6, 1931.
: true copy of
FE:SJF:LM
FE
gred orig
7/8/81
OR
9
Jul.8, 1982.?y

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
KWANTUNG.
I.
A.
(a)
Imperial Ordinance No. 53, dated March
26, 1924, oreating Opium Regulations.
(b)
Regulations for the Enforoement of the
Opium Act, offect1me September 1, 1924.
(0)
Regulatione No. 54, for the Control of
Naroot1os, dated September 28, 1927.
894C.114
COT1CC/29

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
 to
0.114 N 18/5291
Diplom~tio Soric.. No. 1097
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
June 10, 1931.
LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING THE
CONTROL OF THE TRAFFIC IN NARCOTIC DRUGS.
To
American Diplomatic Officers
and Certain merican Consular Officers.
Sirs:
Supplementing thc Department's telegraphic circular
instruction of August 28, 1929, to diplomatic officers,
there are enclosed herewith, in duplicate, questionnaires
in which have been listed the narcotics laws and regula-
tions received by the Department as now in force in the
country to which you are accredited, a summary of their
provisions, and questions indicating the nature of the
additional information whicn the Department desires to
obtain. A blank set of the questionnaire forms is also
enclosed.
Similar questionnaires are being sent, with this
ciroular instruction, to the consular officers in colonies,
possessions and mandated territories shown in the annexed
list. Questionnaire forms for possessions, colonies,
dependencies and mandated territories in which no consular
officers are stationed are being sent to the appropriate
diplomatic missions.
The information referred to is required in official
form for the use of the Commissioner of Narcotics to
guide his aotion in the enforcement of the laws of the
United States governing the export and import of narcotic
drugs, under treaties to which this Government is a party.
It will also be valuable to the United States Government
in connection with international aspects of control of
the traffic in narcotic drugs. It is expected that,
eventually, all of a non-confidential nature will be
compiled in one printed document suitable for reference
purposes, and that copies of such document will be trans-
mitted to the Governments signatory to The Hague Convention
and to any other interested Governments.
In order that the data may be exact and complete,
and may include everything available to assist in a
complete understanding of the method of governmental
control of the narcotio drug traffic in all of the terri-
tories,

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
ms lioansed to manufacture or import narcotios
heme regulations taking effect mhall be con-
midered as licensed hereunder.
KRRATUM
(Published in Kwantung Government Offioial Gazette
of October 6. 1927)
The 8th line of the 57th 1ssue of the Gazette
of the 28th ultimo (viz, Art I (1) above) should
read morphine, cooaine, their salts, derivatives,
and salts of derivatives, and articles containing
the aforesaid drugs."

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
Consular offices to which
Material to be obtained
circular inatruotion will be mailed:
with respect to:
Gibraltar
Gibraltar
Malta
Malta
Calcutta
(For India including the
Border and Native states,
and also Burma and the
Andaman and Nicobar
Islands, but excluding
French and Portuguese
India.)
Aden
Settlement and Protec-
torate of Aden.
Colombo
Ceylon
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
singapore
(For the Straits Settle-
ments, Federated Malay
States, Non-Federated
Malay States, Sarawak,
British North Borneo, and
Brunei.)
Lagos
Nigeria, Gold Coast, and
Sierra Leone.
Nairobi
Kenya Colony, Tanganyika
Territory, Uganda, and
Nyasaland Protectorate.
Sydney
All of Australia; also
Papua and the New Guinea
Mandated Territory.
Wellington
All New Zealand and also
the Samoan Mandated
Territory and the Pacific
Islands under New Zealanc
Dominion such as the Cook
Islands.
Suva
Fiji
St. Johne, N.F.
Newfoundland
Bar bados
(Also the Windward Isles
including Dominica and
St. Lucia, but not
Grenada.)
Belize
British Honduras

=== Page 115 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
Georgetown
British Guiana
Hamilton
Bermuda
Kingston
Jamaica
Nassau
Bahama Islands
Trinidad
Trinidad and also Grenada
Algiers
Algeria
Dakar
French Senegal
Martinique
French West Indies
Saigon
Indo China, also Kwang
Chow-Wan.
Tahiti
Society Islands
Tananarive
Madagascar and the Island
of Reunion
Tunis
Tunisia
Beirut
Syria
Jerusalem
Palestine and Trans-
jordania
Dairen
Leased Territory of
Kwantung
Seoul
All of Chosen (Korea)
Taihoku
Formosa and the
Pescadores Islands
Fatavia
Netherland East Indies
Curaçao
Curação
Lourenço Marques
Mozambique
Nice
Monaco
Florence
San Marino
Barcelona
Andorra
Danzig
Free City of Danzig

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
PM RECD
13.
MERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, July 30, 1931.
6
SUBABB21 31
Benzoylin Smuggling Case, Dairen.
1or of
1-1065
GPO
LASTERN AFFAIRS
AUG 21 193!
FILE
THE HONORABLE
Copytahe
1931
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
26
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 198
89
teo
of June 4, 1931, regarding judicial proceedings in the
4
matter of extensive importations of benzoylin (benzoyl-
C
morphin) into Dairen, and to report that on July 24, 1931,
judgments were handed down by the Judge of the Dairen Dis-
4
trict Court acquitting the accused persons of the charge
NARCOT IC
of violating the local law for the control of narcotics.
T. Shirakawa, former member of the Japanese Diet, alone
was punished, being fined Yen 3o0 for bribing a Kwantung
official in the course of his drug importations.
S
The accused were acquitted on the ground that the
30
notices published under the title of "Errata" in the
Kwantung Government Official Gazette, which corrected
the Narcotic Law (Ordinance No. 54) to include salts
of derivatives, did not have the force of law, and that
the importation of salts of derivatives, of which benzoyl-
morphin is one, did not constitute a breach of law in
consequence.
A
Considerable public interest was shown in the trfal
2
of this case, and the acquittal came somewhat as a
12
surprise.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
surprise.
. Some sort of punishment was generally ex-
pected, inasmuch as the Publio Procurutor's investiga-
tion had brought to light abundant evidence of fraud,
perjury, and forgery in connection with the several
importations.
The Public Procurator of Dairen appealed the case
to the Supreme Court in Port Arthur immediately after
the close of the trial in Dairen.
. In an interview
to the press he stuted that it was the funetion of the
judicial authorities to administer justice according
to existing laws and reculations rather than to pass
on the validity and form of their text.
As of possih.e interest, the LLJICHURLA DAILY NEWS
account of the Judge's sentence and uttitude in the
case is enclosed herewith.
Respectfully yours,
.  
m. R. Langdon,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
MANCHURLA DAILY NEWS article.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
melomure to despatoh No. 215 of Wm. R. Langdon,
Amerioan Consul at Dairen, Manchuria, dated July 30,
193l, on the subject "Benzoylin Smuggling Case, Dairen."
Tom tho MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS of July 24, 1931.
SENTENCES GIVEN ON BENZOYLIN SMUGGLING CASE
All Prisoners Acquitted
Shirakawa Fined for Bribery
This morning, at 10, in the Dairen District Court,
judgments were handed down by Chief Judge Morimoto on
the benzoylin smuggling case, the most sensational one
in the local Court in recent years, involving Shirakawa,
ex-M.P. and 8 others.
The audience room was paoked like sardines.
His honour told the prisoners to rise and read to
him his reasons for acquitting them all of the smuggling-in
of benzoylin.
On the ground that the erratum of the Kwantung
Government Ordinance concerned, by which the prosecution
demanded the punishments was declared invalid, all the
prisoners were acquitted, at which a flash of joy flitted
across the countenances of all the prisoners, Shirakawa
and Matsuuchi being absent. Shirakawa alone was sentenced
to a fine of ¥3o0 for sending a bribe.
Chief Judge Morimoto
Likening His Mind to the Moon on Autumnal Night
Chief Judge Morimoto, after awarding the verdict
said he had nothing particular to say concerning the case.
He went on:
If pressed hard, I might submit for your perusal (of
the press interviewers) a little piece of literature I
composed the other day.
The following are quoted therefrom:-
The mind differs as the face does. Some support
one thing, while others condemn it. If I were to mind
oriticisms, nothing could be done. After all, I have
to carry out my own convictions, aloof from divers
eritieisms. I kmow a friend (meaning the author himself)
who is on the benoh and holds trials over a thousand and
ome cases. When he rendered the sentenee on a most
sensational

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
sensational oriminal case the other day, I asked him what
ho thought of it, and was told that, in any judicial case,
the Public Procurator, the prisoner, the legal counsel,
and the public at large may from their own opinions from
their respective standpoints about uilty and not guilty.
In the judges' eyes, the sentense might be likened to the
moon on an autumnal night. I asked him what he meant.
Then he recited an old Japanese poem which means:
"The Moon hanging in the autumnal sky.
"Might look to people according to their varied moods.
"As for the Lunar Orb, it is contented
"To Shine serene and bright over the mountain rim."
To-day's sentence of mine might be picked to pieces
by critics, but I shoul hope that they would at least run
their eyes over the reasons set forth by me.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
PM RECD
OF
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
10
Dairen, Manchuria, July 30, 1931.
5
Narcotic Traffic, Dairen.
1—1068 G P O
Cory eant t
Divist n of
Freasury ang 22
LASRN AFFAIRS
216 21 1931
1931
THE HONORABLE
FILE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Copy ni FE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
894C.
I have the honor to refer to the Department's in-
struotion of June 30, 1931, File No. 894 C.114 Narcotics,
directing this office to report on certain seizures of
4
narcotics in Dairen, and to state in reply that the
NAOO TI CS/
several cases were fully reported on in the Consulate's
premises of the Medicine Manufacturing Company may be
identified with case (4) of the despatch.
The news items on the subjects published in the
3
MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS are spread over a period of two
months and contain much irrelavant and confusing detail.
As they are considered of small value for purposes of re-
cord, copies will not be sent to the Department unless
expressly desired.
It may be added in this connection that the Kwantung
Government has been informally requested to supply the
Consulate with such information of interest to our Govern-
ment as may be brought to light in the judicial prgceed-
ings related to the seizures in question, and that thia
UG
informatfon

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
information will be communicated to the Depurtment as
soon as it is received.
Respectfully yours,
rm. R. Langdon,
American Consui.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
August 24 1081.
Attention: Pareau of Marootles
894C.
The Aeting Seeretary of State presents his compli-
memts to the Honorable the Aoting Seoretary of the Treas-
ury and refers to this Department's letters of June 30,
1031, and July 8, 1931, in rogard to the 1ll1c1t traffie
NARCOT I CS
in marootio drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
with reference to the former letter, there 1s en-
elosed herewith, for the confidential information of the
Commissioner of Naroatios, a copy of despatoh No. 2l4
/32
dated July 30, 1931, from the American Consul at Dairen,
from whioh it will be noted that the case of illioit
manufeeture at Dairen referred to 1n the JAPAn WEEKLY
CHRONIGMS for June 4, 1931, is case No. 4 disoussed in
despatoh No. 199 dated June 6, 1931, from the Ameriean
Consul et Dairen.
There are also enolosed, for the confidential im-
formation of the Commissioner of Narcoties, copies of
despatehes No. 198 dated Jume 4, 1931, and No. 215 dated
July s0, l9s1, in regard to the proseeution of eertain
Japamese subjects for illegal importation of drugs frem
Germmy

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.89)
Germany and Switserland into the Kwantung Leased Territory.
Beelesures:
Faom Gemsulate, Dairen,
Mo. M14, July 30, 1931;
From Cemsulate, Dairen,
No. 108, June 4, 1951;
Frem Censulate, Dairen,
Mo. B16, July 30, 1931.
A true copy of
the signed aris
Or✓ soy
Aug.24. 1981/PU
pem.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.95)
PM RECD
-819
10.
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manohuria, August 18, 1931.
SUBJECT SE 1531
Narcotic Traffic,
1618817
Kwantung Leased Territory.
H
S
Di1ston of
heth ho
THE HONORABLE
AEASTERN AFFAIRS
Trosy
894C.114 NARCOTICS/33
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
SEP 15 1931
FILESD
WASHINGTON.
Copy un FE
SIR:
Referring to the second section of my despatch No.
199 of June/6, 1931, regarding recent narcotic cases in
Dairen, I have the honor to report that the Consulate
has received the following reply to its request for
information regarding the four cases cited:
(Translated from Japanese)
"Referring to your recent call to inquire
about 4 cases of smuggling of prohibited arti-
oles, I have to supply you with the following
information, which is based upon investigations
made by the authorities concerned:
Case (1) - It 1s not a fact that Thara
transshipped to Osaka a shipment of cocaine
and its salt derivatives whioh had arrived at
Dairen from Germany. Nor is it true that
cocaine and its salt derivatives were landed
in Dairen. Accordingly it is not a fact that
the Dairen police made seizures.
It is obvious from what has been stated above
that neither investigation nor judgment was
made in Dairen. No facts are therefore known
in Dairen of the relation between Dairen and an
international narcotic ring or of the seizure
in Osaka.
Cases (2), (3), and (4) - The facts in
these cases are substantially as reported in
SEP 1 61931
the press."
FILED
The

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
The facts 1n cases (2), (3), and (4) as repcrted
in the press are those given in my report.
Respectfully yours,
AmRhon
Wm. R. Langdon,
American Consui.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.93)
16 1931.
Septemher
894C.11
Atteatlon: pmreeu of Mareetics
The Secretary of State presents his complimemts
to the Homorable the Seeretary or the Treasury, and
NARCOTICS/34
with reference to this Department's letter of August 24,
1951, enoloses herewith, for the confidemtial inform-
tiom of the Commissioner of Marcotios, a copy of des-
patch No. 219 dated August 18, 1931, from the American
Comsul at Dairen, in regard to the 1llioit traffie in
marcotic drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
Enelesure:
From Dairen, No. 219,
August 18, 1951.
w
FE:SJF:AT
Sop. 16, 1981.
C2
9/16/31

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
-255-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, November 2, 1931.
her 12 198
SUBJECT:
LAWS AND REGULATIONS REGARDING THE
CONTROL OF THE TRAFFIC IN NARCOTIC DRUGS
OPO
IN KWANTUNG LEASED TERRITORY.
N
Letth to Treasmry
THE HONORABLE
FI
Dec.10 193
894C.114 NARCOTICS/
fm
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's in-
struction of June 10, 1931, (Diplomatic Serial No. 1097),
File No. 800.1l4 N 16/, enclosing a questionnaire re-
garding laws and regulations governing the control of
traffic in narcotic urugs, and as directed in the last
paragraph to transmit herewith a translation of Kwantung
5
Government Order No. 54 of September 28, 1927, as amended.
This Order together with
(1) Kwantung Leased Territory Opium Law
(2) Imperial Ordinance relative to the Organiga-
tion of the Kwantung Government MonopoTy
FUHD
Bureau
(3) Regulations for the Enforcement of the Kwan-
tung Leased Territory Opium Law,
which were transmitted on December 9, 1929, in this Con-
sulate's despatch to the Embassy in Tokyo, a copy of
which was sent to the Department, constitute all the
laws and regulations governing the control of the traffic
in narcotio drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
Respectfully

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Respectfully yours,
Wm. R. Langdon,
merican Consul.
Enclosure:
Translation of Kwantung Governnent Order
of September 28, 1927.
811.4
WRL:L
In quintuplicate to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
TRANSLATION
KWANTUNG GOVERIHENT ORDER NO. 54
DATED SEPTELBER 28, 1927.
REGULATIONS FOR THE COITROL OF NARCOTICS
rt. I. The following drugs shall be considered as
narcotics in these regulations:
(1) LMorphim, cocain, and their salts or de-
rivatives, and articles containing these
drugs.
(2) Drugs which cause effects similar to those
previously mentioned anddesignated by the
Governor.
rt. II. The manufacture of narcotics is not per-
missible without special authorization of the Governor.
Art. III. Persons desiring tc import narcotics
should apply for permission of the Governor, civing the
following details:
1)
Name of articles and quantity
2
Method of transportation ana route
3)
pproximate date of iuportation
4)
Purpose
5)
Name and business address and trade mark
of shipper
In oase of change in items, such change
must be reported and the permission provided
elsewhere for correction obtained. Changes
in arrival dates when not exceeding thirty
days are excepted.
Art. IV. Persons desiring to export narcotics must
apply to the Governor for permission, giving the following
information:
(1)
Name of article and quantity
2
Method of transportation and route
34
Approximate date of exportation
Name and trade name and business address
of consignee
(5)
Certifioation that the said consignee im-
ports in accordance with the proper formal-
ities.
In oase of change in items, suoh change must
be reported and permission for correotion obtained.
Changes in despatch dates when not exceeding thirty
days are exoepted.
rt. v.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
rt. V. In oase narcotios are imported or exported
under the provision previously mentioned, the Chief of
Police should be advised regarding the name and quantity
of the articles handled within five days.
Art. VI. Selling, buying, delivery, and possession
of narcotios is prohibited except with the permission of
the Governor, provided, however, that selling, buying,
delivery, and possession of narcotios by doctors, dentists,
veterinary surgeons, druggists, or dealers in chemicals
under proper formalities, and transfer, or possession of
narcotics by prescription of doctors, dentists, or ve-
terinary surgeons, be excepted.
rt. VII. With reference to delivery of narcotics,
a ledger in stipulated form is to be prepared, showing
artioles, quantity, purpose, and date of delivery, and
also name, address, and occupation of persons to whom
delivered. The ledger is to be preserved for three years
from the date of last entry. It is provided, however,
that in case of delivery under prescription of doctors,
dentists or veterinary surgeons, the foregoing does not
apply. Officers may, in case of necessity, examine the
ledger and goods mentioned above.
rt. VIII. Persons violating provisions in Art. II
and IV will be punished by imprisonment of not exceeding
one year or a fine not exceeding Yen 200.00.
rt. IX. Persons violating provisions in Art. V and
VII or guilty of making false declarations or statements,
or who refuse to allow examination of the said ledger or
goods in question will be punished with inprisonment not
exceeding three months or a fine not exceeding Yen l00.00.
rt. X. Landing or transshipment of narcotics will
be regarded as importing or exporting in the application
of these regulations.
rt. XI. In case of violation of these regulations
by employees, or members of families, of doctors, dentists,
veterinary surgeons, or chemical dealers, these individuals
will be held responsible, whether such violation is done
under their instructions or not.
Art. XII. In case of violation of the provisions in
these regulations by a juridical person, the person repre-
senting such concern will be punished.
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
These regulations will become effective on and after
Ootober 1, 1927.
Kwantung Government Regulation No. 5 of 1915 is hereby
oancelled.
Persons

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.91)
tiom of coemine for the Leased Territory of Kwantung
for the year 1930 was ten kilograms. Taking the popule-
tiem of that Territory as 1,200,000, he has thus ealeu-
lated the consumption as 8.53 kilograms per million in-
habitants. In viow of these figures, it would appear that
a single importation of four kilograms would be a very mate-
rial quantity for Dairen.
FB
a/9/32
Aug..1932
4

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
Decomber 12 1931.
In reply refer to
E 894C. 114 Nar0ot1os/35
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
894C.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
enoloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
NARCOTICS/3
of Narcotics, a copy of despatch No. 235, dated November 2,
193l, from the American Consul at Dairen, with copy of its
enolosure, Kwantung Government Order No. 54, dated Septem-
bor 28, 1927, in regard to control of narcotics in the
Kwantung Leased Terri tory.
9
Enclosures:
From Consulate, Dairen,
No. 235, November 2, 1931;
Kwantung Government Order
No. 54, dated September 28,
1927.
 Atruw copy of
the signed orig
FEIAGLILMLSMY
18/12/31

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.90)
Fottyo
ZICAN CONUAR SERVICE
Ke
mulate, Dairen, Maneharia, Deeember 1. 19al.
ARAA 0O
LÉGAL ADVISER
Cer
JAN 22 1932
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
pronForbes,
LAR EAEHN AFAIRS
Amerlcan Ambessador,
S
Tokyo, Japan.
89
Sir:
4
C
I have the honor to inform the abasay that George
I. Tribe, an mrican cita residing in Dairen, was
4
arrested on November 21, l931, together w1th a nuaber
NARCOT I Co/
of Japanese, and Kussians and one fronghman, and is
still under detention.
Lecording to pross nocounts, Tribe nd the othora
we arrested on aharges of traffioking i, narooties
ad nggling arms into China. un oveabor 23rd, the
7
Consulate imquired unoffioially of the chier or :olice
hote
of Dairem as to the aoouraoy of the press ruporte, and
as told in reply that it was a faot that ribe was under
totemtion but that no inforation as to charges against
hin could be given inasmmoh as tho case wns under pre-
limimary imvestigation. To date the charges against
Tribe ere wakmowm, and neither poliece nor foreign in-
teresurse effteers have volunteered any information
as to way he is detained. The ruticenee of the
B
amtherities in this sase is a departure from the usual
21932
FILED
eoumrteey et this port of informins foreign consuls of
te esseet asd pregress of trial of their matiomals.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.88)
-8-
As the eharge against Tribe is either of trafficking
an mareeties or of conspireey -- the latter oharge would
heve interesting legal aspeets sinee Japan would in
theery be punishing an American eitisen for disturbing
lem and erder in Chime, offenees of possible interest
to the Embessy, the Consulate will report the progress
of the eass.
Respeetfully yours,
m. R. Langdon.
American Consul.
sso
WILIL
Twe eepies to Departsnt.
Cepy to Legatien, Peiping.
Copy to Cemsalate General, Tokyo.
A trueopy
tho BIgne
nal. a.im'

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.89)
1832 JAN- 8- PH 5: 12 Washinglon,
January 8, 1952.
ARTMENT OFSIAIL
DIVISION CF
68
HS
CATIONS &RLCORDS
894C.114 NARCOT ICS/38
AMERIGAN CONSUL
DAIREN (Manchuria)
Your despatch to Embassy Desember 1.
Mail full report regarding Tribe case. Telegraph
briefly any developments in respeet of narcoties
especially anything involving possible connections
in the United States.
Stimson
A
Jan. 8, 1932. P.M.
m6
to
R:SJF:EMU
A~
19.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.90)
January 18 1988.
天
ofrot100
894C
the Homerable
The seeretary of the Treasury.
114
s1r1
These is enelosed herewith, for the information of
NARCOTICS/39
the Cemmissiomer of Narootios, a photostatio copy of a
elipping from the MEW YORK TIMES of December 13, 1951,
being a Shangha1 press telegram dated December 12, 1951,
in regard to the arrest of six foreigners at Dairen for
1llieit traffio in narootio drugs. On December 16, l931,
the American Consul at Dairen was instructed to report fully
6
em this case, provided he had not already done so before the
reseipt of the instruction in question.
Om December 1, l931, the Consul reported to the Amerieam
Embassy at Tokyo the arrest of George I. Tribe, a naturalized
Amertomm eitimen of Russian birth, together with a mumber of
Fammmese and Russians and one Freneh citizen, on charges which
 met then been offieially stated but were reported to be
in mareeties and amggling arms iate China. A
hãe imstmetion has been sent to the Censnl to papers

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.88)
mareeties, partieularly anything iavolving connestions in
à phetegreph md e deseriptien ef tribe are enslessd
herewsh. he has stated that his legal residenee in the
Uaited States is at sisás Heward Street, San Franoisse,
Califermia. N. Homsky, whose address was stated to be
Sel Thire Avemme, San Francisse, Califermia, hes beem re-
ferred to by Tribe as a friend of his.
The Treemary Department will be kept informed of further
develepmeats in this ease which may involve complicity in the
illieit traffie in mareoties.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
W. R. Castlo, Jr.
AsUnder: Seeretary.
Emelesares:
Phetestatie copy of olipping.
A true capy of
the sigoed orig
Photegraph end deseription of
n
tribe.
0
CR
Jen. 13:1982.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.93)
December 16 19516
HS
MTTAL - STAFP USE ONLY
894C
the Ameriean Gonsul,
Deirem, Manohurie.
The Beeretary of State eneloses herewith, for the
infermatiem of the Ameriean Consul at Dairen, a copy of
NARCOT I CS/40
lipping from the MEW YORK TIMES for December 13, 1931,
an megard to the alleged arrest of six foreigmers for 1l-
lieit traffic in marcotios in Manohuria.
If the Cemmalete has not already reported on this
sase, the Depertment would like to receive information as
eemplete as possible, as there is reason to believe that
Dairen has been used as a base for mmuggling narcotios to
the Umited states as well as for their distribution in
Mancharia.
A

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Arms Plot Officlally Revealed.
Wireless to Thm Naw Yoax Timms.
SHANGHAI, Dec. 12.—Dairen tele-
graphs that the police bureau there
officially states that nineteen Japa-
8
nese, including two young employes
of the South Manchuria Railway.
a
have been arrested for the illegal im-
portation of arms and ammunition,
o
which were, perhaps, sold to Chinese
In North Manchuria. One Chinaman,
employed in the Chinese customs of-
fice, was arrested.
The ams and munitions were im-
ported in a get-rich-quick scheme by
way of the Manchurian trouble.
though the offenders are said to ad-
mit that they made only small deals.
Six foreigners have been arrested
n
for participatlon In a large European
narcotic druk organization with a
1d
More than 1,500.000 worth of nar-
1n-
cotics were Imporfed at Dairen alone
bi
in
and ylrrually all of t was distributed
ry
in Manchurla.
he
Strong feelings are expressed here
on thia Beizure, and it is asserted
n
that the League of Nationa has
le-
always suspected Japanese organiza-
er
tlons of distributing narcotics to the
pf
in-
Manenurlan popuface. The Japancse
Ih
he
police are strictly guarding ports and
11
ast
other entrances for narcotics and
ed
Ital
arms.
ait
tv-
Tuis
ny

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.90)
Copy For the heparti
LIGAL ADVISER
21932
Le
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
n，1001.
Divim on of
FAB EASTIRN AFFAIBS
1
CONFIDENTIAL
JAN 1 8 32
Opyont
Sab jeet:
Arrest of George I. Tribe,
5mF
S
The Homorable
894C.
W. Cameron Forbes,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
4
S1r:
NARCOT IC.
with reference to my despatch of December 1, 1931,
and in reply to the Rmbassy's instruction of December
7, losl, regarding the arrest of George I. Tribe, an
Amerieen eitisen residing in Dairen, and several others
4
on eharges of traffieking illicitly in narcotic drugs,
I have the honor to report to the Embassy that the
Xwantung Government has supplied me, 1nformally md
FLD
eomfidentially, with the following informtion regard-
ing Tribe:
mes esalaet Geerge I. Tribe: In Oeteber,
Be
Newri Baari
ber 2s, 1931, on the premdses of R. Takushime and
1001).
Treetment

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.93)
● 8 -
te Alrrerent Téed and living conditions.
he and the other Kuropeans under arrest are allowed
to reeeive food supplles and comforts from outm de.
Aecerding to Art. VIII of Kwantung Government
Order Ne. 54 es September 8, 1927, Mareot1e Traffie
Regalatiome, the pemalty fer Tribe's effemee would
seem te be imprisemmeat for a period not exeeeding
enme year er e fime met exseeding Yen moo. If Tribe
jail during the prelimimary investigation will be
applied to the term of imprisomment.
Reeerd of Ceorge Iareel Tribe
Geerge Iareel Tribe, son of Lazar Tribueh, was
born at Pinsk, Poland, on October 7, 1902. He ed-
grated to the United States from Yokoham on July 27,
1922, was naturalized as an Amerlcan citizen before
the Distriot Court of California at San Franoleeo, on
Deeember 5, 1927, and left the United States on Novem-
ber 7, 1928, for Dairen, where he has been residing
ever since. He is registered at the Ameriean Consulate
at Dairem, and 1s holder of Passport No. 10 1ssued by
the Ammrieam Consul at Dairen on Angust 6, 1929.
Sinee coming to Dairen, Tribe has been engaged in
 ampert busimess, trading under the name of Manahuria
Impert Compary with a Russian partner M. Triguboff.
e commodities handled were Polish blankets, American
effiee equipent, European tertiles, ete.
It was geserally supposed until his arrest that
Tribe mas enpeged exalusively in Legitimate trade,
evan theugh his bestness was adusdttedly peer in the
pest twe yoass. In september lssl ne had eome mts-

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
understanding with the Chimese Maritime Customs in Dairen
ever an importation of furs, on whion the Custome in-
spectors alleged he had tried to evade payment of duty,
and was fimed Teels 200.00.
Tribe has e brother, living in Harbin, of Polish
er Russian mationality, Tribueh by name, who 1s said
t be on the Geneva Narootie Black List. It is be-
lieved that Tribe has been a tool of his brother and
of Memry Beori Coken rather than a prineipal in the
mareetie transections of which he is accused. He is
an amiable young man and not of the criminal type.
He 1s evidently of good social standing in the local
Jewish cemnity, for upon his arrest the Consulate
received mumerous inquiries as to his welfare from re-
putable Jewish merehants.
Respeotfully yours,
Wm. R. Langdon,
Amerioan Consul.
8.20
江
Twe sopies to Department.
Gepy to Coasalate General, Tokye.
▲ true copy of
the signe
a. amd

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.92)
Copey For the hrepartment
KCLI
Le
ARICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
22, 1931.
Divt on of
FAR EASTON AFFAME
LEGAL ADVISER
JAN 25 1932
32
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
S
The Hemorable
89
W. Cameron Forbes,
4
american ambessador,
C
Tokyo, Japan.
4
Sir:
TOJPAN
NARC
I have the homer to refer to my despatches of De-
mber 1 and 21, 19sl, in regard to the arrest of George
I. Tribe, an Amerieam oitizen, and others on charges of
violating the Kwantung Government narootic regulations,
/42
and to report that the acoused, with one or two exoeptions,
have beem formally indieted and will be tried in the Dairen
Distriet Court in due course.
The imformation which I have been able to obtain on
the cese is seant, and it will not be possible to supple-
moat it wmtil the case has been tried. It has been
learmed, however, that Heari Beori Cohen and R. Takushim
0
(ase  ceafidential despateh of September 16, 1951) weng
FTLED
19321
persems were involved in their operations:
Geempe I. Tribe, Amerieam;
Jaseb D. Lelgi taky (released cn bail), Soviet Ruasdan.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
It 1s believed that the disoovery of Cahen's and
Taimskimm's operations is due entirely to the informe-
tism furnisked to the Kwantung Government by this
afflee on September 16, l931, and that this ease affords
a sood illustration of the value of cooperation between
Ameriean and Japanese Governments and reputable banking
institutions in the suppression of illegal traffic in
mareoties.
Respeetfully yours,
am. H. Langdon,
Amsrican Consul.
a21.4
:L
Twe copies to Department.
Cepy to Legatiom, Peiping.
Gepy to Gonsulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, ukden.
A true
the sigued
ia-m-L

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.93)
January 21 1982.
8
394C.
114
Attention: Bureau of Mareotios
NARCOT
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments to
the Homerable the Seerotary of the Treasury and, with
referemee to this Department's letter of January 13, l9ss,
eneloses herewith, for the confidential information of the
S
14
Commissioner of Narcotios, a copy of a confidential des-
3
pateh dated December 21, 1931 and a copy of a confidential
despateh dated December 22, 1931, from the American Consul
at Dairen to the American Ambassador at Tokyo, 1n regard
to the arrest of George I. Tribe and others on charges of
1llieit trafrieking in narootio drugs. In this conneotion
reference is also made to this Department's letter dated
Oetober 14, 19al, 1n regard to Henr1 Baor1 Cohen and R.
Takmshima.
It is understood that this matter will not be takem
up by the Gemmissioner of Nareo ties under the arrangement
for direet inferal ezshange of mareo ties information with
bring

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.86)
bring the matter up under that arrangement, this De-
partment will be consulted before any communieatiem is
adaressed to the Japanese autherities.
Enelosures:
From Dairon, December 21, 1931;
From Dairen, Deeember 22, 1931.
2/21738
A twe upd
hleged brg-
CR
A
Jan: 21198

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
EE
224-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, September 16, 1931.
SUBJECT:
Narcotic Traffic, Dairen.
1—1085 G P O
File Smt
HS
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
COFE
Copy of enclosure
THE HONORABLE
8
sentt to. Preasvry
394C.114 NARCCTICS/44
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Oct. 13,195 h
Ootober 17 1881.
WASHINGTON.
IL
2
17
SIR:
Wd
I have the honor to report that, in conformity with
standing instructions of the Department (Diplomatic
Serial No. 887 of December 7, 1929), I handed the en-
closed memorandum to the representative of the Governor
of Kwantung Leased Territory this morning.
My informant regarding the supposedly illicit trans-
actions is the local branch of the National City Bank of
New York.
Respectfully yours,
mKandoy
Wm. R. Langdon,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
As stated.
811.4
WRL:L
JM
In quintuplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Gopy to Logation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
1014-21

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
Imolosure to despatoh No. 224 of Wm. R. Langdon, American
Consul at Dairen, Manchuria, dated September 16, 1931,
on the subject Narcotic Traffic, Dairen".
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM HANDED TO MR. KAWAI,
DIRECTOR OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, KWANTUNG GOVERNENT.
(1).
Henri Bacri (Cphen).
It is learned from a most reliable source
that one Henri Bacri, alias Henri Bacri Cohen, of French
nationality, a recent visitor in Dairen, negotiated for
the remittance of two million francs, and actually re-
mitted 200,000 francs, to one Louis Lyon, Paris. Louis
Lyon in Paris is known to deposit large amounts of
foreign currencies in Paris banks, and is suspected of
acting as broker for narcotic purchases. While in Dairen
Bacri dealt in large amounts with R. Takushima, l66 Yamagata-
dori, an importer of bicycles, who is known to be a trafficker
in narcotic drugs.
Bacri is in Mukden at the present moment.
Bacri professes to be a silk dealer, and the
pove-mentioned remittances are ostensibly to cover imports
if silk piece goods. There is every reason to believe
that Bacri will receive a shipment of narcotics instead,
hver.
(2). R. Takushima, 166 Yamagata-dori, Dairen.
Bicycle importer and dealer.
This firm has for long been suspected of
importing narcotics. For some time after the police
raids on 3 Dairen drug traffickers in May last, it ceased
its activity, but recently it has become active again.
It remits large sums to Tamara Handelsgesellschaft, Curt
Smith, Hamburg, suspected of being a narcotic broker.
The Hamburg firm also draws bills on it for collection to
which are attached sealed covers, ueliverable upon payment.
One sealed cover attached to a draft for Il50 is known to
have contained an expense account for a trip to Switzerland.
September 16, 1931.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
-844-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, February 2, 1932.
SUBJECT :
Narcotic Traffic in Dairen.
1-1065 G PO
894C.114 NARCOTICS/45
CONFIDENTIAL
1333.
Divi lon of
Copy ant to
FAR EASTERN AFFAIBS
0
RABLEN
C
3
21
SECRETARY OF STATE,
 ,193
fiei
2nt
WASHINGTON.
AN
I have the honor to refer to the Department's con-
fidential instruction of December 6, 1931, and telegram
of January 9, 1932, in regard to the arrest of a number
of foreigners and Japanese in Dairen on charges of illicit
narcotic trafficking, and to state that the trial of
George I. Tribe, the American citizen indicted for parti-
cipating in the traffic, was opened today.
With regard to the IDepartment's inquiry as to the
possible connection of this case with narcotic smuggling
into the United States, I privately questioned Tribe on
this point while he was at liberty under bond. He stated
that the three deals in which he was involved were purely
local affairs, he receiving money from local and Harbin
operators to purohase parcels of narcotics from local Japan
ose firms holding stocks and delivering them to up-country
Japamese smugglers. From his connection with the case,
the
he believes that/Bacri - Takushima operations were entirely
imports for local sale, and that the Dairen narcotic traffio
generally is one related to smuggling to the hinterland and
to north China points. He never heard of reshipments from
Dairen

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
Dairen to the United States, but added that his con-
neotion with the traffio was not very close, he having
had little to do with it other than receive a fee for
acting as intermediary in the three deals for which he
was indicted.
Whatever it is possible to learn of the trial of
the persons connected with this case will be reported
to the Department in due course.
Respectfully yours,
Wm. R. Langdon,
merican Consul.
811.4
WRL:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Kmbassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
2 C.rreo Copios
2.27.
Received..

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.94)
March 7 1982.
Attontion: Bureau of Narootles
工
894C.
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and, with
reference to this Department's letter of January 21, l932,
enoleses herewith, for the confidential information of
4
NAR COT I CS/ 46
the Commissioner of Narootios, a copy of despatoh No. 244,
dated February 2, 1932, from the American Consul at
Batsen, in regard to George I. Tribe, who was at that time
umder trial on a oharge of participating in the illicit
traffie in narcotio drugs.
Enclosure:
No. 244, Tebruary 2, 1932,
from Deiren.
mal.
3/7/32
MAH7.1932.F

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.91)
SA
ttin to
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
EE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
Foreign Control
March 22, 1932.
Divieion of
FAB EASTERD AFFAIBS
To Candat
File-fom
Damen, Mardh 24, 1932
N
The Honorable
March 20 133a
2m
894C.11
The Secretary of State.
Sir,
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller.
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communication
4
NA.COTIC.
of Narch 7, 1932, (File No. FE 894C. 114 Narcotics/45) with which you
transmitted a copy of a despatch from the Americen Consul at Dairen,
Manchuria, dated February 2, 1932, with further reference to George I.
Tribe, indicted at Dairen for complicity in the smuggling of narcotics.
/47
In this connection there is enclosed for your information a copy
of a report, dated March 4, l932, subnitted by a narcotic agent at
San Francisco, California.
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary
MAH 26 193
CITH
Enclosure

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
0
P
Y
Mirch 4, 1932.
Mr. A. A. Elliott,
Aoting District Supervisor,
San Francisco, California.
With reference to the investigation requested by Bureau letter of
January 9, 1932, I submit the following report:
GEORGE I. TRIBE was born in the City of Pinsk, province of Minsk,
Russia on October 7, l902, and his correct name is Israel Treibuch. His
parents emigrated to Harbin, anchuria from Pinsk in 1904 w1th Mrs. Morris
Homsky and family, who were neighbors and acquaintances of the Treibuch
family in Pinsk. After the war, Morris Homsky emigrated to the United
States from Harbin; George I. Tribe alao emigrated to the United States
as a student and arrived in San Francisco on July 27, 1922. He later took
out citizenship papers.
When Tribe first arrived in San Francisco he lived at 1384 lis St.,
and later lived with the Homsky family who were, at that time, residing
on Sycamore Street, tetween 17th and 18th Streets. In 1922, Tribe worked
at the Palace Hotel as a dish washer. He then worked for a man at the
Crystal Palace Market, San Francisco. This man is now out of business
and his wheregbouts are not known. He worked later for the University
Club, San Frano1sco, as a waiter. lie worked from lay 25, 1923, and was
on the payroll until July 1, 1927; lis salary t ere being $110 a month.
On November 14, 1925, Tribe net with an automobile accident and re-
ceived a fractured skull. He was taken to the City Emergency Hospital
and then removed to the Mt. Zion ospital where he remained until Febru-
ary 5, l926. He later received treatmenta at the Clinic of the Mt. Zion
Hospital through the aid of the Eureka Benevolent Society of San Fran-
ciaco. For this accident, a settlement was made to him through his at-
torney, Edward McKenzie, of about $500, above expenses. He also re-
ceived a bonus from the University Club, several of the members being
interested in him because he was a "high-type" fellow and was very well
liked.
Tribe borrowed from the Hebrew Loan Association the amount of 300,
which he returned. When borrowing the money he gave as referenoes Paul
Orloff at 253 Clement Street and Abraham Soloveff at l859 Haight Street.
The whereabouts of both of those men are not now knowm. He also gave as
reference Sam Saburnan, 1350 Ellis Street, and Mrs. C. Homsky, landlady
and friend.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
The known relatives of Tribe are: Boris Natheson, 55l0 S. Prairie
Avenue, Chicago, Illinois, e clerk in a grocery store. Father, lazar
Treibuch and mother, Liba Treibuch, of larbin, China. A married sister,
Mrs. Tama Feldman, Harbin, China. Another sister, Sonia Treibuch, re-
siding at Moscow, Russia. A brother, Chein Treibuch, at Harbin, China.
Another relative, Moishe Treibuch, presumably an uncle, residing at
22 Second Street (Ftoraia Ul), Harbin, China.
Tribe desired to go to Harbin to see his folks who live there, end
he left San Francisco for that purpose around July, 1927.
With reference to the Joseph Leon Warton, mentioned in the Bureau
letter as having identified Tribe, Warton is also a Russian and came to
the United States via Manchuria. He is now employed at the Golden State
Lamp Shade Manufacturing Company, 771 Mission Street, San Francisco. He
is an intimate friend of the Homskys and met Tribe at the Homsky home.
Morris Homsky is in the butter and egg business at 3324t Mission
Street and now resides at 581 Third Avenue.
Both of these men bear a good reputation and are not in any way
connected with the illegal traffic of drugs. They do not correspond
with Tribe and havenot heard from. him since he left San Francisco.
Nothing has been learned which would tend to show that Tribe had any-
thing to do with the trafficking in drugs while in the United States.
(Signed) B. W. KASKEL,
Narcotic Agent.
BWK:G

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Maroh 25 1932.
CONFIDENTIAL -- StafF Use Only.
BH
To the American Consul,
894C.114 NARCOTICS/48
Dairen, Manchuria.
The Secretary of State refers to the Consul's des-
patoh No. 244 dated February 2, 1932, and encloses here-
with, for the confidential information of the American
Consulate at Dairen, a copy of a letter from the Treasury
Department, dated March 22, 1932, with a copy of its en-
closure, which gives further information in regard to
George I. Tribe, indicted at Dairen for complicity in
the smuggling of narcotic drugs.
Enclosure:
From Treasury Department,
dated March 22, 1932, with
enclosure.
894C.114 Narcotics/47
4
FE:LM
FE
3/24/32
inal.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.92)
SeRner
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF NARCOTICS
JUN 8
OPFICE OF
WASHINGTON
SIONER OF NARCOTICS
onstruetion drefted
June 3, 1932.
to dacren, June  6 1952
INFORMAL.
Divis:on of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 7 1862.
1932
John K. Caldwell, Esq.,
C
Department of State,
V
Washington, D. C.
Depmanent State
Dear Mr. Caldwell:
There is transmitted herewith for your
information copy of a  cular relative to the dis-
NA.COTICS/49
covery or a secret Japanese morphine factory.
Sincerely yours,
Hanshng
H.. Analinger,
commissioner.
Enclosure.
1N 7 1932
CATIO

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
Home Office reference
Circular No. 49.
569,274/75.
The Press of Dairen on February l2th reported that the
Police had discovered a secret morphine factory at Kokusekisho,
a seaside resort some six miles from Dairen, and had confiscated
some forty kilogrammes of morphine. The factory, it was stated,
had been working since November, 193l. On February 26th it was
stated that the case had been taken to the Public Procurator and
that the following fourteen Japanese were involved:-
AZUMA, Kunio
age 36
HORII, Kinnosuke
n
46
HOTTA, Chubei
n
50
IIJIMA, Kahei
n
43
IKEDA, Kuma j1
n
28
INAMURA, Tomi ju
n
28
MITSUOKA, Ichiro
n
33
MIYAMOTO, Tsunsharu
7
26
SAITO, Goro
27
TAKAHASHI, Tsunskichi
35
TORII, Mitsuyoshi
41
TSUDA, Yosuke
39
YOKOI, Yasuhachi
29
YOSHIDA, Kunio
46
Copies to:-
Rotterdam
Paris (d)
Washington
Ottawa
Cairo.
HOME OFFICE,
WHITEHALL.
11th May, 1938.

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.93)
. Jane 7 1982.
A
894C.11
wailliem R. Langéen, Esquire,
Ameriean Consal,
4 NAROO T ICS/50
Dairen, Mancharia.
ar:
There is enelesed herewith, for your information,
e eepy of an informal letter dated June 3, 1932, from
the Gammissiomer of Mareoties in the Treasury Department,
treasmitting e copy of a cireular issued by the British
offiee in regard to a press report concerning the
Daires.
Yem are instrueted to transmit to the Department any
imfermation obtainable concerning this case and any similar
eases whieh mmy cecur in your distriet.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
W. R. Castle, Jr.
Atee 

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.92)
O
Washington.
FICE
28, 1932.
1hm
AMERICAN CONSUL,
DAIREN (MANCHURIA).
Striotly confidential.
45-
A
One. Your despatoh 244  February 2.
Report by telegraph outcome Baori Takushima
894C.
narcotios case and transmit copy and translation
of court sentence.
Two. Department has been informed that
Gourevioh was convicted at Dairen in April last 'on
NARCOTICS/51
a narcotios charge. If so telegraph particulars of
sentence./
left 'Dairen and telegraph to the Department 'his
ostensible destination.
Four. Biltreasry.
x
RISJP:DF
8940.114 Mareoties/
Jun. 2812
19.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.88)
Ne
Gourevrch
This
one
Probably
others

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM S
Deparáheid of State
1832 JUL - 7 - AM 11: 11
894C.114 NAR00TICS/52
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS& RECORE
July 7, 1932.
//an
AMERICAN CONSUL,
DAIREN (MANCHURIA).
When may Department expect partial or complete
Simsan
FE:SJF:EMF
FE
A
894C.114 Narcotics/
1.5
V
JUL 7. 1982.
mo
19.
1-18

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
14 1982.
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Diviion of
FARFAERN AFFAIRS
REP
FROM
Deprmen of Stuts
This telegram must be
ront
closely paraphrased be-
DAIREN
fore being communicated
N
to anyone.
Dated July 11, 1932
894C.
Rec'd 8:15 a. m.
Secretary of State,
114 NARCOT 1C
Washington.
July 11, 4 p. m.
152
Your July 7 11 a. m.
J. Gourevich, convicted, is in Dairen. Brother
Abramovich, believed to be leader, is in Tientsin.
Report on court sentence follows
/53
THOMAS
894 C.l14 Narcotics/
RR
WSB
d1932

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.90)
July 14 1982.
894C.114 NAR00T1CS/54
Attentien: Bureey of Mareeti es
he Seeretary of State pmesents his compliments to
She Memereble the Seeretary of the Treasury and, with
referemee to previous correspendence in regard to the
aalieit traffie in nareotics in Dairen and the Kwantung
Lemsed Territory, atates, for the information of the
Ceissiemer of Nareoties, that this Department has re-
seived a telegram from the Ameriean Consul at Dairen, dated
July 1l, l9sk, to tàs effeet that J. Gourevich has been
somvieted. The Consul is to telegraph details of the sen-
temee later. He also reports that Abramovioh Gourevich,
the brether of J. Gourevieh, is thought to be in Tientsin
 is belleved to be the leader of the gang.
9/2s/m8
A true copy of
therig-
Ju1.14
1938.
0

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
August 10 1982.
C
In reply refer to
A
7E 894C.114 Naroot1os/
894C.
CONPIDENTIAL
Attontion: Bureau of Narootics
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
NARCOTI
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and refers to
League of Nations dooument No. O.C.S. 67, dated July 25,
1932, whioh is a memorandum in regard to an inquiry by
C
the firm of Fujita Shoka1 of Dairen into British prioes
S
for coeaine, and submits the following observations.
5
5
It is noted that dooument No. O.C. 1313, reforred to
in the Seoretary's no te on dooument No. O.C.S. 67, states
that on November 27, 1928, 3.09 kilograms of benzoyl-morphine
whioh had been shipped from Dairen by Fujita were seized at
Kobe in the illioit trafrio.
with reference to the remarks in regard to the consump-
tion of cocaine in the Kwantung Leased Territory, it may be
pointed out that the Chier of the Social Questions and Opium
Traffio Seetion of the League of Nations has caloulated, from
data submitted by the Japanese Government, that the consump-
tion

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.91)
tiom of coemine for the Leased Territory of Kwantung
for the year 1930 was ten k1lograms. Taking the popule-
tiem of that Territory as 1,200,000, he has thus ealeu-
lated the consumption as 8.53 kilograms per million in-
habitents. In view of these figures, it would appear that
a single importation of four kilograms would be a very mate-
rial quantity for Dairen.
FB
a/9/s2
Aug..1932
4

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
6198
February
To the American Consul,
894C.114 NARCOT ICS/73
Dairen, Manehuria.
The Department of State acknowledges receipt
of despatch No. 18, dated January 6, 1933, from
the Amerioam Consul at Dairen in regard to the laws
and regulations governing the traffio in narootio
drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
The Department appreciates the time and effort
that was devoted to the preparation of the summary
which accompanied the despatoh under reference, es-
peeially in view of the difficulties attendant upon
the gathering of detalled information of this kind
under the oiroumstances obtaining in Dairen.
8040.114 Zareeties/69
s//as

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
0.0.8. 67
Geneva, July 25, 1932.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON TRAFFIC IN OPIUM AND OTHER DANGRROUS
DRUGB
Memorandum in regard to an enquiry, by a
firm in Dairen, into British prioes for cocaine.
Communioated by the British Representative, July 4th, l932.
MEMORANDUM
In September, l93l, the firm of May and Baker Ltd.
of London, who are licensed under the Dangerous Drugs Acts
to manufaoture cooaine, received an enquiry from the firm
of Fugita Shokai of Dairen, dated 29th August, 1931, for the
price cif Dairen of 4 kilogrammes of cocaine hydroohloride
Ph. J. iv. The Fujita Shokai were 1nformed by May and Baker
Ltd. that before they could proceed further in the matter they
would require to be advised whether the Fujita Shokai were in
a pesition to supply the necessary import certificate for that
quantity of cocaine. No further communioation was received by
Messrs. May and Baker from the Fujita Shokai, and as such an
enquiry from Dairen was unusual and the amount in question
appeared to be considerable, the faots of the matter were
cemmnioated by His Majesty's Government to the Government
ef Japen. His Majesty's Government are now informed by the
Japenese Goverament as follows:-
"Fudasa shokai, of Dairen, is a trading
maehe, Dairen, oarried on
"mirehers,

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
"zirohare, aged 2s, the eldest son
of Yoichi Fuljita, having acquaintanoes in
the ohemioal industry, was anxious to ao-
quire information regarding the London drug
market, and he did no more than enquire from
Messrs. May and Baker the pri∞ of 4 kilo-
srammes of cocaine, and also asked that he
might be sent a catalogue for purposes of
referenoe. (The reason why he enquired about
4 kilogrammes was that it appeared that the
pareels rate for that quantity would be pro-
portionately lower than for 1 kilogramme,
owing to the deoreasing rate per unit.) He
made no definite order for 4 kilogrammes."
In another communication the Japamese Covernment
remark that the legitimate demand for cocaine in the
Kwantung Leased Territory is in the neighbourhood of 30
kilogrammes; that the estimated amount to be imported
during 1932 1s 26 kilogrammes, and that a0cordingly 1t is
considered that the 4 kilogrammes could not be said to be
an exeessively large quantity.
Note by the Seoretary.
Previous mentiongor the Fujita Shoka1, Dairen,
will be found 1n Dooument 0.C. 1313.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manohuria, November 16, 1932.
SUBJECT :
Bacri-Takushima Narootios Case,
Involving G. I. Tribe, American.
1-1086
Capy sent to Treary
2
+ tellghd aftee
RECO
3
to ai  702
5
Division of
CI_THE HONORABLE
08C
FAR FASTERN AFLAIRS
C
AY
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
E1932
394C.11
WASHINGTON.
Depertmen ui state
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
written and telegraphic instructions requesting infor
mation conoerning the Bacri-Takushima narcotios case,
with particular reference to the implication of Geroge
I. Tribe, American, therein. The long delay in com-
plying with the Department's instructions is to be re-
C
1
gretted.
7
On April 4, 1932, Judge Oda of the Dis trict Court
7
of Dairen pronounced sentence upon the foreigners and
Japmese arrested in Dairen on November 21, 193l, under
charges of trafficking in narcotics. The following are
the sentenoes given each of the offenders:
1 year's imprisonment
Rokushi Takushima
6 months' imprisonment
Cohen Baori
Yen 100 fine
George Tribe
Yen l00 fine
Jacob Lelchitsky
Boris Bogdanovaky and Nison Granevsky were found innocent.
At the same time and as a result of the arrests
made on and after November 21, l93a, Judge Oda sentenced
2
FILED
the following Japanese and Chinese for violations of the
9 1932
and
Narootios Regulations/ror amiggling arms and ammunition
into Dairen:
Shigeru

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Shigeru Inuzuka
Yen 80 fine
Gonji Kusano
Yen l00 fine
Choji Haraguchi
6 months' imprisonment
Satoshi Hayashida
Yen 150 fine
Osamu Tateishi
5 months' imprisonment
Minoru Sato
2 months' imprisonment
Sueichi Fujita
3 months' imprisonment
Nobuo Yokai
3 months' imprisonment
Gohei Nagao
4 months' imprisonment
Yu Chu Liu
Yen 150 fine
Hsiao Yu Tung
Yen 60 fine.
The following Japanese were found innocent: Ryuko
Takamine, Gonji Sugimoto, Tomisaku Mizoguohi, and Soji
Inouye.
With particular reference to the case of George I.
Tribe, the following is a translation of the charges
upon which Tribe was found guilty:
George Tribe, the accused, arrived at
Dairen from Harbin in l929 and established him-
self as an exporter of Manchurian produce and an
importer of woolen cloth. He su spended business
in June, 1931.
Near the end of September, 1929, Tribe
bought of Rokushi Takushima, the accused, 97
kilogrames of Heroin and sold it to Koichi Koike,
Yamagata-dori, Dairen, on the same day, at Yen
450.00 per kilogram, making a profit of Yen 600.00.
In March 1930, Tribe bought of Rokushi Taku-
shima, the accused, 75 kilograms of Benzoline, and
sold it to Shigeru Sumita for a profit of Yen 375.00.
On August 30, 1931, Tribe bought of Cohen Bacri,
the aaeused, 12 kilograms of Morphine and sold it to
a messenger of Shigeru Sumita for a profit of Yen
75.00.
It appears that Tribe was guilty of violating Articles
VI and VII of Kwantung Government Order No. 54, dated
September 28, 1927, REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF NAR-
COTIcs, (copy to Department with despatoh No. 235 of
November 2, 1931) and fined in accordance with Artiole
IX of these REGULATIONS whioh provides that "Persons
violating provisions in Article V and vII -------- will
be punished with imprisonment for a period not exceeding
three

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3 -
three months or a fine not exceeding Yen l00.00."
Although the popular feeling in Dairen is that
Tribe was merely a *tool" of Takushima and Bacri, per-
sons well informed concerning the case are of the opinion
that he was more intimately connected with them than is
implied by the term "tool". Aocording to last reports,
Tribe was in Harbin with his brother, Triguboff.
Respectfully yours,
Ahue Vnt
John Carter Vinoent
American Consul.
811.4
JCV:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Kmbassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
X

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.91)
Decemter 8 1982.
ZIPSETIAL
N
894C.
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
4
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
NARCOT ICS/58
with reference to the Treasury Department's letter,
dated March 22, l952, and to this Department's letter,
dated Jamuary 21, 1932, enoloses herewith, for the con-
fidential information of the Commissioner of Narootios,
a eepy of despatoh No. 8, dated November 16, 1932, from
8
the American Consul at Dairen, 1n regard to the disposi-
tiom of the case in whioh Henr1 Baori Cohen, R. Takushima
and George I Tribe were involved.
A true copy qf
Enclosure:
tor
inal.
 Dairen, Mancharie.
13
12/8/s2
Deo.
pr

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.91)
Waahingion,
This cable was sent in conndential 
It should be careully pooureo
December 8, 1932.
(e)
aidnight
AMERICAN CONSUL,
DAIREN (MANCHURIA).
894C.
Confidontial.
153
One. Consulate's telegram /July 1l, 4 p.m. Keep
Department and Treasury Attaohé at Shanghai informed
NARCOTICS/59
by disoreet inquiry./ Expedite report/ on court sentence,
57
Two. Your despatch No.8 concerning/Baori case
received.
Three. Expedite reply to instruction dated June/7
rogarding morphine factory.
Four. Importance of Dairen/as a /center of illicit
narootics/traffic renders/it important/to keep/Department
and Treasury Attaché at Shanghai ourrently informed.
Stimsan
Vcny
RISUP:ENP
09
soda.ll4 Nareotios/
Deo.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
December 29 1982.
CONFIDENTIAL -- STAFF USE ONLY
Z
To the American Consul,
894C.114 NARCOTIC
Dairen, Manchuria.
The Department refers to its mail instruotion,
dated June 7, 1932 and to 1ts telegraphic instruction,
dated December 8, 1932, midnight, and enoloses herewith,
for the confidential information of the American Consul
at Dairen, a copy of Loague of Nations document No. O.C.S.
82, dated December 1, l932, which is a report, communicated
by the Japanese representative on the Opium Advisory Com-
S/60
mittee, conoerning the discovery of a clandestine drug
factory near Dairen.
The Department awaits the report of the American
Consul at Dairen on this case.
Enolosure:
Copy of League dooument
No. 0.C.s. 82, December 1,
1938.
28
1982.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.11
NARCOTICS/
SEE..895.114. Narcot1ca/18
FROM ....Seoul
( Davis) DATED Dec. 5.132
TO
NAME
REGARDING: Plan for increasing cultivation of opiun in Chosen for use in
61
supplying Kwantune, Leased Territory, to replace supply i to that
territory from Fersie.
ja

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
PM RECD
-11-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Mancmaria, Dégember 13, 1932.
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT :
Jaoob Gourevioh JAN 5 33
1-1085 G PO
Prraei
Divon of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
THE HONORABLE
JAG1933
C
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Departmone a Stale
WASHINGTON.
394C.
SIR:
94C.114 i /59
I have the honor to refer to that portion of the
Department's confidential telegram of/December 8, 12
midnight, concerning the court sentence and recent
movements of Jacob Gourevich.
With reference to the court sentence, inquiries
have disolosed that Gourevich's sentence, imposed at
the same time as those of Bacri, Takushima, et al,
 (April 4, 1932) was a fine of Yen 100.00. In so far
C
as I oan asoertain, he has remained in Dairen since
7
the trial and is here now, engaged in the oil business.
I am informed, however, that this business is nominal.
Information concerning his activities is not available.
It is regretted that the information concerning
Gourevich's sentence was not included in my despatch
No. 8 of November 16, 1932, concerning the Bacri-
Takushima case. The souroe of information upon which
JAN 7
FILED
I relied made no mention of Gourevich in its report of
the case.
1933
In accordance with the Department's instructions,
a copy

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
a copy of this despatch and my despatch No. 8 are
being sent to the Treasury Attache in Shanghai. I
shall promptly inform the Department and the Attache
of any further information I may be able to obtain
concerning the movenents and activities of Gourevich.
Respectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
811.4
JCV:L
JM
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
No. -18-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, December 14, 1932.
SUBJECT :
Report of Morphine Factory near Dairen
1-1065
CONFIDENTIAL
Dlvletn or
FAR EASTPN AFFAIRS
C
1933
THE HONORABLE
Depertmene  e
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
RECD
3
33
Copy taki
C.
2
WASHINGTON.
5
M
A
C)
Wd
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruotion of June/7, 1932, inquiring relative to a
press report of the seizure of a morphine factory
near Dairen, and to the Department's telegram of De-
cember 8, 12 midnight requesting a reply to this in-
struotion. The delay in complying with the Depart-
ment's instruotion is to be regretted.
C)
The factory in reference was located near Hoshi-
C
gaura at a place called Kokusekisho, about five miles
from Dairen. It was raided on February l0 by the
police and six Japanese, including the ringleaders
Kunio Azuma and Goro Saito, were arrested. A very
large and complete manufacturing plant built of stone
and equipped with electrio motors and a steam engine
was found on the premises. The plant had been opened
on November 1, l93l, and a considerable quantity of
morphine manufactured and sold during the two and a
JAN 7 1933
FILED
half months of its operation.
on

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
On February 8th, just prior to the raiding of the
factory at Kokusekisho, the police had arrested two
young men in a house of ill-fame in Dairen and found
on one of them 2o0 kilogrammes of morphine. From in-
formation furnished by these two young men, six other
Japanese were arrested and the source of the confiscated
morphine was disclosed. This information led to the
raid on the factory at Kokusekisho and the arrest of the
other sir Japanese.
The fourteen whc were arrested are listed below:
AZUMA, Kunio
SAITO, Goro
TORII, Mitsuyoshi
TAKAHASHI, Tsunskichi
HOTTA, Chubei
IIJIMA, Kahei
IKEDA, Kuma ji
INAMURA, Tomi ju
MITSUOKA, Ichiro
MIYAMOTO, Tsuneharu
TSUDA, Yosuke
YOKOI, Yasuhaohi
YOSHIDA, Kunio
HORII, Kinnosuke
Kumaji Ikeda and Mitsuoka were released without trial
soon after they were arrested as there was found to be
no evidence against them. The other twelve were tried
towards the end of February by the Public Procurator.
Hotta, Iijima, and Inamura were found not guilty and re-
leased. Sentences were passed on the remaining nine
as indicated below:
ASUMA, Kunio
imprisonment,
4 months
SAITO, Goro
5 months
TORII, Mitsuyoshi
18
2 months
TAKAHASHI, Tsunskichi
fined, 100 yen
YOKOI, Yasuhachi
50 yen
TSUDA, Yosuke
50 yen
HORII, Kinnosuke
30 yen
YOSHIDA, Kunio
30 yen
MTYAMOTO, Tsuneharu
30 yen
In

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
In this case, as in the Bacri-Takushima case,
the extreme lightness of the sentences is evidence of
the lonienoy of the local courts in dealing with this
type of criminal. The fines represent no more than a
dealer would hand to a coolie for some unintelligent
assistance, and the imprisonments are certainly too
short to act as a deterrant to further activity. My
British Colleague states that more expeditious action
by the courts and condign punishments are essential
to the control and abatement of the narcotios traffic
in the Kuantung Leased Territory; that the present
attitude of the local authorities and courts is dis-
couraging to sincere efforts at cooperation.
Respectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
merican Consul.
811.4
JCV:L
JM
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai.

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
6 1938
January
894C.114 NARC0TICS/64
In roply refer to
7E 8940.114 Mareot1es/6s
COMPIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootics
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter, dated
December 8, 1932, enoloses herewith, for the confiden-
tial information of the Commissioner of Narootics, a
copy of despatoh No. 11, dated December 13, 1932, from
the Amerioan Consul at Dairen, in regard to Jacob
Gourevich, suspected of complicity in the illicit traf-
fie in naroo tio drugs.
Enclosure:
No. 11, Deeember 13, 1932,
from Dairen.
A true cany of
1/8/33
FBISJ71ENP
the signed orig-
inal.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.92)
January 6 1933
A
In reply refer to
E 8940.114 Nar00t1os/63
894C.114 NARCOTI CS/S
CONVIDRNTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to the seoret oiroular No. 49, dated
at Whitehall, May 11, 1932, and to League of Nations
doeument No. O.C.S. 82, enoloses herewith, for the con-
fidential information of the Commissioner of Narootios,
5
a oopy of despatoh No. 12, dated December 14, 1932, from
the Amerioan Consul at Dairen, in regard to an 1llioit
morphine factory at Kokusekisho near Dairen.
Enelosure:
No. 12, December 14, 1932,
from Dairen.
A
11.
BISJ7IBN7
1/5/33
090m

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
/12.
JAN 2 3 1933
Ciroular No. 82.
SHORET MORPHINE FAOTOOTEB AT OR NEAR DAIREL
The following are summaries of casos reported by the local Preed.
1. Mitsutoku NOMURA with five other Japenese and t wo Chinese were
charged at Dairen with an offence against the narootie drugs regu-
lations. NoMRA, who is an ax-conviet, was senteneed to 3 months'
hard labour in September, l9se, the remaining accused boing acquitted.
The facts of the case are as follows. The aceused under the name of
the Showa Yoke (Gosh1 Kaiahe) were running an 1llicit morphine
factory at 5, Mikasa-cho, Dairem, the value of the morphine discovered
when the place was raided being put at Yen 50,000. This address was
also the address of the local branch of the "Tokyo Seiyaku Kabushiki
Kaisha", and it was strongly suspeeted, but could not be proved, that
there was a alose connection between the two firms.
The raw material is believed to have been obtained from Shanghai
and Tientsin through the agency of Henry BACRI and the manufactured
morphine was for export.
The names of those prosecuted but acquitted are:-
Ryuiah1 GAXUGA
Harusaburd HORI
Kum1e KANAZAWa
Zu1in FUJITA
Japanese.
(Mrs. Sh1geru SHIMIZU)
G1haoh1 YAMA00CHI
LEE CNIANG
YU KKE BA
Chinese
Another Japemese named Rikiso MaTaookA was involved but his case
will be adjudieated separately.
2. An outbreak of fire on Jume l4th, l9sm, in one room of a building
at 70, Higashikoem-cho lead to the diseovery that it originated in
the igaition of some inflammble mterials (probably ether) used in
JAN
the eouree of the illieit mamufacture of morphine. The prinoipal
28
effender was Mise (or Jinso) KoJya, who used amother address, where
1933
Tokyo Ang Mity. to Lri

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
he ostensibly carried on a painting and decorating business, as
a cover for the storage of the raw materials and for sales of
morphine, the extent of the operations being in the neighbourhood
of Yem l00,000 worth of the drug. Police investigation brought
to light some of the raw mterials and two notebooks with partiou-
lare of weights, dates, ete., but no mamufactured morphine, and they
had reason to suppose that such as there was of the latter had been
hurriedly removed as soon as the fire broke out. Kojimm was in
Mukden at the time and it is not known whether he has yet been
apprehended. He had a place in Mukden also, at 5 ao1-cho, where he
sold morphine made in Dairen. The names of those coneerned, and whe
were all arrested except Kojima, are:-
Nizo (Jinzo) KOJIM
Yoshindo TOYoFUKU
Isao VOSHNMO
Matsuta ToYOrUKU.
The matter appeara to be still under investigation by the police.
8.
On Jume Bth a hearing took place et the Deiron Dintrict Court of
the trial of Nanjiro IShIkAwA and thirteen others on a oharge of
exporting to Changohun large quantities of Hydrochlorio (Muriatic)
Morphine 1n 1926-27. The drug, to a value of Yen 690,000, was obtained
from a foreigner (unnamed), and was exported in consignments of one
kilo at a time fifteem or sixteen times a month for about a year.
4.
On June 30th three persons named
TOsh1o SAKAGUCHI
Ryosaku HRaNO
Puk1o HAJAE
were arrested for violation of the narootic drugs control regulations,
in that they were engaged in the manufecture, or were preparing to
mmmafaeture, orude morphine from opium.
5.
On September lst it was diseovered that a man named Giichi ahImm,
ostemsibly a building contreetor, was engaged in the illieit

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
manufaoture of morphine in a small room on the upper floor
of his premises at No. 40 Summ-cho, Dairem. The disoovery came
about through an outbreak of fire owing to the accidental
1gaition of some ether which he was using. Shibata was so badly
burned that he died the same day, and as his apparatus was
destroyed and there was no evidence of accomplices no further
aetiom is contemplated by the police.
Copiee to:-
Cairo
Paris (D)
Ottame
Rotterdan
Washingten.
LONDON,
9th Jammary, 19ss.

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
PM RECD
-15-
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, Manchuria, December 87, 1932.
Fujita Shoka1, DairedN 30
SUBJECT:
1-1080
OPO
Diviton of
C
FACRS
A
THE HONORABLE
JAN 10 1933
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
Depme
C
WASHINGTON.
0
cb
4
SIR:
C
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
confidential instruction of August 10, 1932, en-
closing a ccpy of League of Nations document No.
O.C.S. 67, dated July 25, 1932, relative to an inquiry
by the firm cf Fujita Shokai of Dairen into British
prices for cocaine. For the Department's information I
have gathered the following data concerning Fujita Sho-
kai.
7
The full name of the firm is Fujita Shokai, Dairen
Shucho (Dairen Branch). The Changchun branch of the
The firm apparently
firm is known as the head office.
does no business in either place although it formerly
dealt in cotton yarn, sugar and gunny bags. The pro-
prietor, Yoichi Fujita, age 56, is in Dairen and it is
reported that his known business activity now is con-
fined to currenoy speculation. His attitude towards
the Consulate representative, who called ostensibly to
FEB
FILED
secure information for a World Trade Directory Report,
was evasive and unfriendly.
103
Hiroharu

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Hiroharu Fujita (also K. Fujita) age 26, son
of Y. Fujita, is the proprietor of the firm of Manshu
Mortar Kogyo-ho, 59 Susono-cho, Dairen. It is a
private firm, capitalized for Yen 20,000, which is re-
ported to be manufacturing and selling about Yen 45,000
worth of sewer-pipe and brick annually. It was organ-
ized in l93l and the capital stock is controlled by
Yoichi Fujita. The local Chinese-Japanese credit
agenoy reports that the reputation of the firm is not
good.
Inquiries reveal that neither Yoichi Fujita nor
his son, Hiroharu, enjoy a good re utation in Dairen.
I have campared the results of my investigation
with those of my British Colleague on the same sub ject
and find that he has no information requiring an addi-
tion to or alteration in the above statements.
Respectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
811.4
JCV:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.95)
A
nvary 2t 1577
BIAL-- STAFF USE OLY
894C
To the American Consul,
Dairen, Manohuria.
The Department enoloses herewith, for the confi-
demtial informmtion of the American Consul at Dairen,
e memorandum in regard to secret morphine factories
at or near Dairen. This information was furnished by
the British authorities under existing arrangements for
confidential exohange of informtion concerning the il-
8
lieit traffio in narcotio drugs. It is illustrative of
the type of information that the Department desires to
receive from the American Consul at Dairen.
It is understood that the British Consul at Dairen
has instruotions whioh will enable him to cooperate with
$he Amerioan Consul in obtaining information in regard to
the illieit traffio in narootio drugs. In this conneotion
attention is direeted to the Department's ciroular instrue-
siem, Diplommtie Serial No. 235, dated December 28, 1923.
The Department desires to receive from the American
Sempul et Dairen reports in regard to further developments
the sases set forth in the enolosed memorandum.
A true cy of
the sigmegorle
inal.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
No. 18
6193
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
February
Dairen, Manchuria, January 6, 1933.
SUBJECT:
Reply to Questionnaire on Laws and Regulations
1—1006 G PO
regarding Control of Narcotics.
Sholructiom
to Damenl
ho on ot
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
THE HONORABLE
JAN311933
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
Deportment a state
C
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
C.
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
J
ipstruction of June 10, 193l, Diplomatic Serial No.
O
1097, file No. 800.114 N 16/, and to enclose herewith,
in triplicate, the answer to the questionnaire enclosed
with the instruction in reference. The long delay in
complying with the Department's instruction is to be re-
894℃
gretted.
The answers to the questionnaire were given
by the Kwantung Government in written Japanese. In
C
many cases the replies are only partially satisfactory
CC
due in part to a failure completely to understand the
C
①
questions and in part to the fact the questions were
not applicable to conditions in the Kwantung Leased
Territory.
Furthermore, the existence of the Kwantung
Government (Opium) Monopoly Bureau as an organization
especially charged with the control of opium as differ-
entiated from other narcotics obviously made the duty
of replying to some of the questions complicated. In
FEB 7
many instances, for example, the replies refer only to
FILED
regulations governing narcotics exolusive of opium.
1933
An attempt to clarify replies has unfortunately been
only

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
only partially successful.
Translations of regulations and ordinances which
have not already been sent to the Department will be
made and submitted as soon as possible.
Respectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Questionnaire
811.4
JCV:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo (no enclosure).

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
-1
KWANTUNG.
QUESTIONNAIRE
LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES FOR THE CONTROL OF THE
TRAFFIC IN NARCOTIC DRUGS
I. GENERAL.
Laws and Regulations.
1. What laws, regulations, etc., are in force?
(a) Imperial Ordinance No. 53, dated March 26,
1924, creating Opiun Regulations.
(b)
Regulations for the Enforcement of the
Opium Act, effective September 1, 1924.
(c)
Regulations No. 54, for the Control of
Narcotios, dated September 28, 1927.
(a)
Imperial Ordinance No. 179 (1928) relative
to the Organization of the Kwantung Govern-
ment (Opium) Monopoly Bureau.
(e) Regulations No. 26 (1925) relative to
Drugs and Medicines.
(f)
 Regulations No. 10 (1916) relative to
confiscation Arms, Ammunition, Opium, Narcotics.
B. Substances Controlled.
1. What narcotic drugs are controlled by these
laws and regulations?
Raw opium, opium paste, opium for medical use,
opium ash. Plantation of poppy prohibited.
Morphine, cocain, their salts and derivatives,
and articles containing these drugs.
Ecgonine, ecgonine derivatives and articles
containing Indian hemp, their resin and drugs.
C. Administration.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
0. Administretion.
1. What departments of the Government are charged
with the administration of the narcotic laws?
ith p ce to opium, te t nr ovant
(0. ium) : ono. oly ureiu,
, theolice
t-
ment.
ith respect to n rcotics, te olice De r ment
of the watung ovment.
2. If administretion is not centralized in one
department, what provision is made for co-
ordination?
Coordin tion is
the I wuntuny sed
D. Right to Deal in Narcotics.
1. Manufacturers -- Is the right to manufacture
narcotic drugs restricted to persons or firms
engaged in the manufacture of generel pharma-
ceutical products, to members of certain pro-
fessions, such as pharmacists and druggists,
or to any other commercial or professional
groups?
The manuluct re of opium is not ermissable
excpet wit' e s eci  rizuti n of the
Wentung Gov r ment Monopoly Pureau.
The nanufacture of n rcotics is erritted
to ph rmacists who have obteined the special
authorization of the wntun "overnor.
a. What
2

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
a. What companies extract alkaloids
of opium and coca leaves?
Dairen Seiyakjo, Limited (Dairen :h rmacy)
103 Ebisu-cho, Dairen.
(e1on)
b. How many companies, not extractors of
alkaloids, manufacture pharmaceutical
products containing narcotic drugs?
one
2. Wholesale Dealers -- Is the right to trade
in narcotic drugs on a wholesale basis re-
stricted to eny particular commercial or
professional group?
To whobesale of o ium us  e  wantune covernment
 ono: oly uroau sells to l horized retailers.
Th right to trade in other n reotics on a
mholesule  sis is not rort icted to any
purtic 1 r colmercial or rof ssional roup.
a. Totel number of wholesalers?
There re no Wholesalers. The Nonopoly
Pureau might be clled a wholesale or-
ganization.
3. Retail Dealers -- Is anyone other than a
druggist or pharmacist authorized to retail
narcotic drugs? If so, who?
Shops numbering 102 (1931) specified and author-
ized by the Monopoly  ureau to retail opium.
a. Is
3

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.95)
a. Is any limit imposed on the quantities
of drugs that may be purchased hy re-
tailers?
yes
b. Total number of reteilers?
102 aut.orized opium  alers and 49
licensed pharmacists bo nin of lo31
4.
Importers and Exporters -- Is the right to
import and export narcotic drugs restricted
to any commercial or orofessional groups?
No.
a. Total number of importers?
Themis ion  u ov nt
is noc. y for each in ort tion (or ex-
ort tion) o? na"cotie rurs. ( r of
in. orters not iven)
b. Total number of exporters?
Ja.e is above
3.
Brokers -- Is there any legislation restrict-
ing the right of any person within the country
to ne gotiate purchases and sales between per-
sons or firms in forein countries?
No brokers tReply does not state thether there
is legislation but is is believed that there
is none.
E. Licenses.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.94)
E. Licenses.
1. Are special narcotics licenses required for
dealing in narcotio drugs?
vesion
tuis
necensary for e, rt, ex rt,
selling, buring, und posseton I re ics
us provided in rticles 2 a.d 6 of the  1 tions
for the Control of areotics. License is isrued
at the tine permission is cranted.
2. What department of the Government is authorized
to issue and revoke licenses?
ith res ect to opium, the
want me oy rnrent
(Opi m) Honopoly re u.
ith respect to tr marcotic puce, the
covernor of want ne he  ao ity to
issue and rev le licenses.
3. If local uthorities issue licenses, can any
central authority compel their revocation?
ee 2 al ove.
4. What requirements must be satisfied by the
applicant before licenses may be issued?
License is issued only after full inforr tion
has b :on secured c ncerning ch racter, purrose,
amount of narcotics to be doalt in, et cetera,
et cetera. Licensee als sign certific te.
Cuses are decided on erits and not according
to fixed rule. Only Chinese are licensed to
smoke opium

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.94)
5. What investi ration is made concerning such
matters as reliability, needs and premises
of the applicants?
striet nvttion is de relative to
matters nocesury for police ad:in tration
before the lic ise is issued and ar investi-
e ation is made c curmi e r liul ility,
re re nts und lae of b ine s of the
i:licunt
3. Under what circumstances may the administra-
tive uthority revoke licenses?
the lice se mar e revo ed uw' on indin te
licensee hae carri on dil nert d ulines
or th t  is c  ti.ued : o. se: si n cf a license
is h rfl to to c rol of re  ics t  fic.
a. May licenses be revoked by any
other authority and if so under
what circumstances?
(answer to the uostien arpare tly ov rlo ked
but it ic understood that opium licenses are
revoked only by the authority iving them,
1.e., the onopoly ureau, and narcotics
licenses only by the wantung Covernor.
7. What
8

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
7. What method is employed to keep manufacturers
and wholesalers informed of the names of the
licensed dealers to whom sales may be made?
it res edt to opium, the ?onopoly
au
is of cours cor izant of e license deal
since it ins es t'e liceses a d it alone
d al: with them.
ith respect to nucotics, there are no
wholesulers and licensed manufacturers
and deulers are the same.
a. Is the vendor bound to ascertain
whether the vendee is licensed?
Yes.
F. Post.
1. Is the country a member of the Universal
Postal Union?
Yes.
2. Under what circumstances may drugs be sent
through the post?
In ce the applicant designates this met od
and states route.
G. Taxation.
7

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.94)
G. Taxation.
1. Is there any system of taxation of the im-
portation and exportation (exclusive of
customs duties), the manufacture or sale
of narcotic drugs?
No. (The Lono oly ureau c ntr lling
opium, alth uch not pro erly a taxing
organizetion,nev rtheless s cures a
large revonue t'i sal f opium on
a monopolintic basis.)
2. What is the annual revenue derived from
such tax?
one. ( it: r fu c to o op l urou,
(rigures ar ot avuila le ut known
ahat  nt is lurre, soret' us estin ted
ut over twe ty i or cent.
e totul
i. c e of theu  ne  ranent.)
3. In what way, if any, is the use of such
revenue restricted?
Vnrestricted.
II.
8

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
II.
IMPORT AND EXPORT.
A. Certificate System.
1. What import and export certificate system
has been adopted? (1.e. Is the system pre-
scribed by Chapter 5 of the Geneva Conven-
tion used in full; if not, what are the
principal features of the system in use?)
The sy ten  eseril ed by Chapter 5 of the
Geneva Co.ve tion is used in full.
2.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
2. What authority is charged with the duty of
issuing import and export certificates?
The ov rnor of the I a. tung Le sed 'erritory
B.
Imports.
1. Under what circumstances will an import certi-
ficate be issued?
 iet inve ition is ce in a co d  cc with
rticle 3 of t. etil tiens for the Co: trol
of the urcotics Trade.  eci 1 i vesti tion
is made o the c  rac er, ob. ect, et cet ra
of cach individ al u pli unt.
2. How many copies of the import certificate
are issued and what disposition is made
of them?
as na cotics ar  rally in orted by
arcel post oniy one i  ort certificate
is icsued but in the c se of o ium, it is
nec ssury to pre ent certificute to the
authorities at e ports of c ll or
transshipment . Co ies of the certificate
are issued in sufficien nuber to cover
each  ort of c ll or t nsshi ment.
3. What limits, if any, are imposed on the
amounts
10

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
amounts that may be imported?
Amount proper to d mand in  antung Leased
Territory is taken into considertion when
permission for import is civen.
4. Throua what customs offices may imports
be effected?
The I wai.tung Leased Ter itory is a duty
free area.
5. What ofricials or departments of the Gov-
ernment, local or national, are notified
that an import certificate has been is-
sued, and by what means is such notifica-
tion effected?
In case t e im crt ion is y post, the
Chief of t'he local  olice a the ir ctor
of co mu icurions ur notified. In other
cases   ef of olice only is otified.
"otification is in t e form of un official
letter in  ich is enclosed & copy of the
import certificate.
o. How long are import certificates valid?
o defi iteriod as it de is uyon the
lent of tine reg ired for t e shipment
to crrive  he lace of shi ment.
The maxinum oried ie fr m three to four
..onths.
7. In case export certificates accompany
imported consignments, are such certifi-
cates returned to the countries of origin
and, if so, by whom and with what en-
dorsement?
11

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.92)
dorsement?
The date of rrival ..d the act l quantity
of nurcotics in orted are e..dorsed n the
certificate by the uur ung Governor and it
it returned to the co  'r of ori in.
8. Do the customs keep separate records of the
imports of narcotic drugs?
O CSO.S
errit ry.
9. Do the customs notify the authcrity which is-
sued the import certificate of the arrival of
the consignment and the exact amount entered
and, if so, how soon after entry?
the
 cotics i re ired to
notiry te hi  t 1 cul olice withn
five yst.iv 1 of   i nt
( utitd inds)  e thrticle
50
12.ions fo.
srol of
otics
10. Are records of imports kept by the authority
which issued the certificates?
Yes.
1l. Are the internal customs or any other
authorities at the place where the con-
signment is to be cleared and released
notified
12

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.96)
notified of its arrival at the external
cust omshouse?
No such re. i em nt s the 'erritory is
a duty fr e aru.
12. May narcotics be imported under such general
descriptions as "Pharmaceutical Products", and,
if not, what descrintion is required?
o narcotics may  i orted unless desurir-
tion iving principle narcotic inrredient
of the shi ment una the exuct c tent ase
riven.
13. May narcotics be imported on bills-of-lading
made out "to order"?
a cotics ay not le iorted out l
i ort cert f c te i  lod'  uanting
Hov nor (ne irr persen i: ort ng).
14. May narcotics be imported in cases contain-
ing other pharmaceutical products?
Nurcotics  ot e orted with ut ernision
of the vaitun o ror even won in cases con-
ta ning other hermaceutic 1 products. (The
answer to the question is up arently "Yes")
C. Exports.
1. Under what circumstances are export certifi-
cates issued?
Strict inv stigation is ude in acco dance with
article 3 of the e ulations for tle Co: srol of
arcotics. p cil inv igation is made of the
ch:racter, object, et cetera of each individual
applicant.
13

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.94)
2. What policy does the issuing authority
pursue re ;arding apolications for permis-
sion to export to:
a. Countries which are parties to
a narcotic drugs convention but
which have not adopted the import
certificate system?
Follows a p icy sin'l  to t'  em loyed
for eom ies  ieh b udtee
in ort cert fic te s tem. (Tt io not
beli ved t t ver i: a ofinite policy
rirjyea ti
kind  elrom i ever ai es.)
b. Countries which are not parties
to a narcotic drugs convention
and which nave not adopted the
import and export certificate
system?
answer cane a a ove (a).
3. Through what customs offices may exports
be effected?
No customs offices.
14

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.94)
4. What officials or denartments of the
Government, local or national, are notified
that an export certificate has been issued,
and by what means is such notification ef-
fected?
n case ex ort  by ost, e  i f of t'c
loc:l  olice und the irector of conrrr ic tions
re otified. ot r mns, he
Chief of  olic is  ot fied.
otificction
is in the for: o  o 'ficicl letter in w ich
is en ulosed a yr e ex ort cortificute.
5. How many copies of the export certificate
are issued and what disposition is made
of them?
nur of coofete
su Picient or decl ation is i ed.
6. How long are export certificates valid?
No fixed term of validity. istunce to
destinetion and other factors must be
taken into considr tion as each case
arises.
15

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
7. Do the customs keep separate records of the
exports of narcotic drugs?
oes oe.
8. Do the customs notify the authority which
issued the export certificate, or any other
authority, when exported consinments are
cleared?
o cust ms offie in  e ritory.
9. Are records of excorts keot by the authority
which issues the certificates?
es.
10. May narcotics be exported under such general
descriptions as "Pharmaceutical Products",
and, if not, what description is required?
No. Deseription of the amount und c aracter
of the nurcotics must be civen.
11. May narcotics be exported on bills-of-lading
made out "to order"?
Necessury to obtain export permission from
Tuantung Covernor. (It is understood that
applicant must give name of c nsignee when
applying for certificate.)
16

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.93)
12. May narcotics be exported in cases contain-
ing other pharmaceutical products?
Even when in cases cont ining other pharma-
ceutical products, i sion of the wantung
Covernor ust to obtaine bofore ex ort.
(o thewer to this u ion s m to e "ves")
13. What investigation is made if the import-
ing country does not return the copy of the
export certificate within a reasonable time?
o caee of t is lind us  isen ao
theoret cal procedure ude ted.
14. Are imports and exports reported either to
the Netherland Government or to the League
of Nations; and, if so, do the reports
specify the actual dates of departure from
or arrival in the country?
annual report (soet: s  t rly)  iv ng
t  es or nurcotics, c  tries of im ort
und e ort, d a tit: s, i: mde to the
overseas De art:.ent o t.e
ri.l T .ese
Goy r. ment. o r port is : ad diraty to
the oa ne ore et rla vnt.
15. May imported narcotic drugs be re-exported?
Yes. ueroc re us fr or
eort.
III. TRANSIT
17

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.94)
III. TRANSIT AND DIVERSION.
A. Transit.
1. Under what circumstances may consignments
pass in transit through the country?
Pransit is hindled in e se r s
i ortsu e ports. Tt s   oll d
in accord:ce vithicle 10 e
 i tions a Jo tr 1  a cotics.
ra sit is not ll wed itt the
r-
sion oe wuto rr.
B. Diversion.
1. Are diversion certificates (such as those
provided for by the Geneva Convention) is-
sued for consignments diverted from their
original destinations?
"o case of t is lind hs  ison. f it
should, diversio. certific: tes wo lc 'e i sued
in uccorda.ce with rticle 15 of the cenova
Opium onvention of 1925.
2. Are they issued by the same authority which
issues import and export certificates, and
under what conditions?
Yes.The Kwantung "overnor issues the certificates.
As no case has arisen, no conditions have been
specified bt rticle 15 of the Geneva .O ium
Convention would be followed.
IV. INTERNAL
18

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
IV. INTERNAL CONTROL.
A.
Free Ports and Free Zones.
1. What free ports and free zones are there?
hewt n eased  rit r is a free
area. (T e. are, howev , o "free o: us"
ith res: ct to narcotics.)
2. Are the laws of the country regulating the
traffic in narcotic drugs in force therein?
WS
ns
C
c it
ritory.
a. If not, what control is exercised
in such places?
joe ubove.
B.
Bonded Warehouses.
1. Are there bonded warehouses in which nar-
cotics may be stored in the country?
No.
2. What supervision is exercised over narcotics
stored in such warehouses?
See above.
19

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
0. Storage.
1. What requirements are there regarding the
manner in which narcotics in the possession
of dealers or manufacturers must be stored?
It is recuired that narcotics must be
stored in specified places, under lock,
and separate from other stocks. A record
must be kept of such stocks showing ith-
drawals and additions and quantity and
disposition of withdrawals.
D. Records. Prescriptions and Reports.
1.  What records are dealers, other than re-
tailers, required to keep?
It is re uired that a special ledger be
kept on prescribed forms s ow ing articles,
quantities, purpose and date of ithdrawals
or deliveries, name of party to whom delivered.
Such ledgers must be preserved for three years
after date of last e try.
2. What records are retail dealers required
to keep?
Requirements same as above (D-1)
20

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
3. May retail sales be made without prescrip-
tions?
No person may buy, sell, transfer, or possess
narcotics except when an authorized physician,
dentist, veterinary surgeon, druggist, or
dealer in medicine issues a prescription in
accordance with the proper form.
4. Must prescriptions be filed, and may they
be refilled?
Prescriptions shall be kopt by party filling
them and any change in the prescription must
to noted. (Obviously not the answer the to
question.)
5. How frequently must reports be made of
manufacture, purchases, sales, and stocks
and in what detail?
No requiremonts with respect to reports
but the officials charged with co trol
shall inspect ledgers and stocks when
they deem it necessary.
21

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
o. If a separate report must be made, or if
permission must be obtained in advance,
for each transaction, what is the re-
quired procedure?
e  te r ort or adv. ce
1ion
not rquired.
7. Are reports made to the department of the
Government responsible for issuing import
and export certificates?
o renorts made.
a. If not, to what department?
(It is to be romembered th t in tle case of opium,
the Mon poly ureau exercises co trol over the
authorized dealers und the lat er are obliged,
in order to obt in new stocls, to make r ports.
T is st.tement should be read in cornection with
all questions under "D" al ove.)
8.
22

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
8. Are all returns of sellers checked against
returns of buyers?
No regulation provided but officials charged
with control shall inspect ledgers and stocks
when they deem it necessary.
E. Inspection.
1. By what authorities are factories, wholesalers
and retailers inspected?
By the Kwantung Covern ent Police and by
sanitary officers who are licensed pharmacists.
2. If inspection is made by officials of the
local Government, are the results reported
to the central Government, and, if so, to
what department and in what detail?
Reports are mad: to the Iwantung Governor.
The reports may contain the folloming
information: correctness of license
certificate; condition of business;
correctness of s:los records; correctness
ledger; nature of trensactions; co dition
of stocks wether locked a d segreg ted;
labels of stocks whether correctly descrihin
urticle; correctnes of prescri tions.
3. How
23

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Hew many narootios inspeotors are employed
by the central Government?
No special narcoties inspectors employed.
Police officers and sanitary inspectors
do this work (number not iven).
4. How frequently are inspections made of:
a. Factories?
No requirement as to frecuency of inspections.
Inspection is made at any time the authorities
deem it necessary.
b. Wholesalers?
As above
c. Retailers?
As above
5. If the inspectors are not all under one
department and if individual transactions
are not reported to a central office, by
what inspection system are books of
sellers checked. against books of buyers?
Inspectors shall exa ine ledgers and stocks
of dealers and in case of necessity, they shall
check the books of sellers against those of buyers,
and conduct any other necessary investigation.
F..Illicit Traffic.
1.. If the customs discover an attempt to smuggle
drugs
24

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
drugs into or out of the country, do they
report immediately to the authority which
issues imcort and export certificates?
1
to
:ce.
a. If not, to "hom do they report?
2. In cases of detection of illicit dealing
within the country, is the central authori-
ty immediately notified?
In cases of smuggling of drugs by post,
must the postal authorities immediately
communicate with the central authority?
1
1. t.
4. Does the central authority participate in
the criminal proceedings in narcotics
cases?
No.
25

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
5. What disposition is made of seized nar-
cotios?
Seized narcotics are confiscated and
revert to the Territorial Treasury
after decision by the Court (that is,
the proceed from their sale reverts.
G. Penalties.
1. What penalties are provided for breach of
the narcotic laws and regulations?
Penalties are provided as stated below
in accordance with laws nd reculations,
and the nature and circnstances of each
case:
a. Violation of Reculations for
Control ofrcotics:
1. Imprisonment not exceeding one
year or & fine not exceeding Yen 200.
2. Im risorment not exceeding three
months or & fine not exceeding en 100.
b. Violation of Ywantung Opium Law:
1.Imprisonment for poriod not ex-
ceeding three years or a fine not
exceeding Yen 3,000.
(Thero are numerous less severe
penulties for less serious cases.)
c. Violation of erulations for the Enforce-
ment of the Xwantung Leased Territory
O ium Law:
1. Imprisonment for a period not exceeding
one year or a fine not exceeding Yen 200.
d. Viol tion of Regulations for Drugs:
1. Maximum fine Yen 200.
Confiscations are in a cordance with police
regulations relating to arms, ammunition,
opium, morphine, cocaine, et cetera.
V. MISCELLANEOUS
26

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.92)
V. EISCELLANEOUS
A.
Other Legal or Administrative Measures
1. Are there any other important legal or
administrative measures controlling the
traffic in narcotic drugs?
o.
o ecial r tions a ; made from tie
to ti e as occusion or  ed orefor  er se.
2. With
87

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
2. With what countries, if any, is there an
arrangement for direct exchange between
enforcement officers of information conoern-
ing the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs?
There are arrangements between Japan and
England and the United States. In practice
there is no exchange of information but
should the occasion arise therefor it
would be through the medium of the Kwantung
Govrnment.
a. What officer is charged with
this function?
Governor of the Iwantung Leased Territory.
88

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.93)
Janvary 31 1933
894C.114
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
NARCOT ICS/70
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter, dated
August 10, l932, enoloses herewith, for the confidential
information of the Commissioner of Narootios, a copy of
despatoh No. 15, dated December 27, 1932, from the American
Consul at Dairen, in regard to the firm of Fujita Shokai
of Dairen and Changohun.
Enclosure:
No. 15, Deoember 27, 1932,
from Dairen.
àrua copy
the signgyarle
1/31/33
10a
Im

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
SUBJECT
Traffic in Narcotics in wantung
DATE
89
4C.
CASE NUMBER
C
7
3
-1
0
2
人
No.2
JACKET
Please do not disarrange or remove papers from
this jacket or deface jacket with office stamp or
notations.
1-1885

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
19
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
D.IN, Manchuria, January 18, 1933.
SuBJEcT: Nurcotics Cuses in Duiren - 1932.
1-1065
THE HONORABLE
N
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
894C.1
Copy ate..
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
2e1
I have the honor to coi ly with the Department's
standing instructions in subnitting the following sum-
NARCOT
mary of cuses occurine in Duiren during 1932 which per-
tain to the illicit truffic in nurcotic drugs.
∴S
I did not assume chare f this Con lute until ovem-
C
ber, it has ven necesuury for me to see und receive
C
the assistunce, ost o ereisl iven, of  ritish
Colleugue, :r. Dennin, in ottin te t or the inform-
ation contuine. in the su-ry.
1. on February 1oth, the police ruided & house
at Kokusekisho, about five miles from Duiren, and found
a rather larce moryhine munufucturinc plunt which hud
been operating since Hoveber, lo31. Twelve Jupalese
were tried and nine convicted.
Short terms of im-
prisonment (maximum 5 montis; minimum 2 months) were
imposed on three and l1cht finus (maximum 100 yen; ini-
mum 30 yen: collected from the others.
SAITO CoO and
FEB 13 1933
AZUMA Kunio were the ringleaders.
For a detailed des-
FILED
cription of the case please refer to my despatch No. 12
of December 14, 1932.
2. on .pril

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
2. on April 4th sentences were imposed in the
Bacri-Takushima case which had its inception in Nov-
ember, 193l, when a number of foreigners and Japan-
ese were arrested on charges of illicit drug traffic
and arms smuggling.
TAKUSHIA Rokushi was found
gualty on both counts and sentenced to one year's im-
prisonment.
Henri Cohen BACRI was sentenced to six
months imprisonment but he forfeited bail and escap -
ed from Dairen.
His name has since been mentioned
in connection vi th another narcotics case in Dairen
(see case 3 infra).
George TRIBE (merican) and
Jacob GOUREVICH were fined 1OO yen each, and Boris
BOGDANOVSKY and Nison GRANEVSKY were acquited.
The
Japanese, other than Takushima, were sentenced on the
single count of arms smuggling.
For further inform-
ation concerning this case please refer to my despetches
Nos 8 and 11 of November 16th and December 13th res-
pectively.
3. In May it was reported that an illicit mor-
phine factory had been operating under the name of
Showa Yoko (Goshi Kuisha) at 5 Likasa-cho, Dairen.
NOMURA Mitsutoku was sentenced to three months hard
labour.
The following six Japanese and two Chinese
were involved in the case but were acguitted:
GAKUGA Ryuichi (Mrs) SHIMIZU Shigeru
HORI Harusaburo
YAMAGUCHI Gihachi
KANAZAWA Kunie
LEE Chuang
FUJITA Zuilin
YU Kee Fa
It was strongly suspected, but could not be proved,
that there was a close connection between this group
and the

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
and the Tokyo Seiyaku Kabushiki Kaisha whose local branch
had the same address as the Showa Yoko.
Bacri was men-
tioned in this case as having supplied the raw materials
for the morphine factory.
4. In June a fire at 70 Higashikoen-cho, Dairen,
led to the discovery that there was an illicit morphine
factory in the building.
The fire had been caused by
the ignition of some inflammable materials (probably
ether) used in the manufacture of morphine.
one
KIJIMA Nizo (or Jinzo), who had used another address
where he ostensibly carried on a business in decorat-
ing and painting, was re orted to be the chief offender.
The following  ersons were found to be connected with
the case and, with the exce tion of Mijima who was in
Mukden at the time of the fire, were ll urrested:
KIJIIL Nizo (Jinzo)
YOSINO Isao
TOYOFUIU Yoshindo
TCTOFULU Matsuta
The case is underetood to be still under investigation.
5.
On June 28th there was a heuring in the Dairen
district court in connection with the case of ISHI.W
Manjiro and thirteen others charced with exporting large
quantities of hydrochloric (muriatic) morphine to Chang-
chun in 1926-27.
The drug, valued at ven 690,000, was
obtained from a forei ner whose name was not disclosed.
The defence maintuine  that (a) the provision of the
Ordinance under which the accused were being prosecut-
26
ed was invalid (see Consul Langdon's desputch No 198
of June 4, 1931, reporting the "Benzolin Case", and
case No 11, infra) and (b) the shipment of drugs to
a place in the Railway reas was not export in the
sense

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
sense implied in the Ordinance.
The case was adjourn-
ed.
The correctness of defence (a) will be shown upon
the re-trial of the "Benzolin Case" which has been order-
ed by the Supreme Court at Port Arthur (see case No 1l
infra), and defence (b) is wholly without foundation
since the Ordinance in question (No 54 of September
28, 1927, Regulations for the Control of I cotics)
applies to the Kwantung Leased Territory only.
6. The locul press reported that on June 30th
the following persons were ur ested for viol tion of
the Regulations fo the Control of Harcotics, the
specific charge being that they were engaged in the
manufacture of, or were pre aring to munufucture,
crude morphine from opium:
SAKAGUCHI Toshio
HIRANO Ryosaku
HAJIIE Yukio
It is understood thut the police are still investi-
gating the case.
7. on ugust 2lst a policeman found several
small cans of morphine in some kerosene tins
on a
passing cart.
A police squad accompanied the
carter to his destination in Rokotan (suburb of
Dairen) and there found a band of some ten men, all
of whom escap ed after a severe struggle with the
police.
A Japanese watchman was examined and re-
leased after.it was found that he had no connection
with the case.
It is reported that the police have
the case under investigation.
8. on September

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
8. On September lst is was discovered that SHIBATA
Giiohi, ostensibly a building contractor, was engaging
in the illicit manufacture of morphine.
The discovery
was made when a fire, caused by the accidental ignition
of some ether which Shibata was using at the time in
connection with his morphine plant, broke out on the
second floor of his premises at 40 Suma-cho, Dairen.
The apparatus was destroyed by the
fire and Shibata
was
so badly burned tht he died the next day.
AS
the police found no
evidence of accomplices, the case
was dropped.
With reference to this case and to
the
case numbered 4, I have been reliably informed that
many of the rather fre uent fires occuring in Dairen
are
caused by the explosion of materials used in illi-
cit morphine plants.
Very few of
these
cases
are
ever reported in the press or prosecuted because the
obvious material evidence is destroyed and the police
do not care to bother with a difficult investigation.
9.
In September the local press reported tht the
police at Shakako (a suburb of Dairen) were
on the truck
of some persons alleged to be engaged in the production
of illicit morphine on a large scule.
Dairen police
headquarters states, however, th t the story is pure
imagination on the purt of the re orter.
10.
The press reported th't on Hovember 8th a
Japanese named KoD. of 68 Higashikoen-cho, Dairen,
was arrested in connection with an attempted illegal
transaction in morphine.
Six pounds of morphine of
very poor quality were found in his house
as
result
of a domiciliary search.
One ISHXI Ryuichi of Kam-
eda-gun, Hokkaido, Japan, confessed to having smuggled
seven

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
-6
meven pounds into Dairen to be sold by Koda who appar-
ontly managed to dispose of only one pound before he
was apprehended.
As no further report of the case
has been made, it is presumably still under investiga-
tion.
a
11. In his despatch No. 196 of June 4,. 1931,
Consul Langdon reported the "Benzolin Case" to the
Department.
The case originated several years
ago when SHIRAKAWA, an ex-member of the Japanese Diet,
and ten other Japanese, were arrested in connection
with the illegal impartation into Dairen of benzolin
valued at over two million yen.
In ugust, 1931,
the accused were acquitted on the grounds that the
provision of the Ordinance under which they were being
prosecuted was invalid.
According to Consul Lang-
don, the words "salts of derivatives" were purposely
or inadvertently omitted in the text of the Regulations
for the Control of Narcotics (Ordinance No. 54) published
in the Kwantung Government Gazette on September 28, 1927.
The omission was corrected by inserting an "errata" noti-
fication in the Gazette of October 6, l927, but the
Court ruled that the defendents could not be prosecuted
on the basis on the "errata" notification.
The pub-
lic procurator appealed the case, but the Appeal Court
upheld the former decision of acquittal.
The pro-
curator then appealed to the Supreme Court at Port Ar-
thur; and the Court has recently ordered a re-trial of
the case on the grounds that the judiciary has no au-
thority to sorutinize the procedure by which any law
comes

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
comes into being.
No date for the re-trial has yet
been fixed.
The case has attracted considerable at-
tention in the past, and the re-trial judgement will
be awaited with no little interest.
A report will
be made to the Department, of course, as soon as in-
formation concerning the jud ement is available.
is I have not been in Dairen long enough to tho-
roughly familiarize myself with the narcotics situation,
I do not feel qualified to enge in any generalizations
or offer any conclusions in connection with the summary.
It may be appropriate, however, to quote here a portion
of the last paragraph of my despatch No. 12 of December
14, 1932, relative to the morphine factory case described
in case 1 of this summary:
"The fines represent no more than a dealer
would hand to a coolie for some inintelligent
assistance, and the imprisonments are certain-
ly too short to act as a deterrant to further
activity. Ly British Colleague states that
more expeditious action by the courts and con-
dign punishments are essential to the control
and abatement of the narcotics traffic in the
Kwantung Leased Territory; that the present
attitude of the local authorities and courts
is discouraging to sincere efforts at cooper-
ation (on the part of foreign consuls)."
John Carter Vincent
merican Consul
811.4
JCV/v
original and two co ies to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Treasury Attache,Shanghai

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.94)
894C.114
Attention: Bureau of Narootics
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary af the Treasury and
NARCOT ICS/72
emeloses herewith, for the informtion of the Commis-
siemer of Narootios, a copy of despatoh No. 18, dated
Jammary 6, 1933, from the Ameriem Consul at Dairen,
with a copy of its enelosure, a summary of the laws
and regulations governing the traffic in narootio drugs
in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
Translations of regulations and ordinances whioh
have not already been sent to the Treasury Department
will be made by the Consulate as soon as possible and
will be duly transmitted to the Treasury Department.
Emolesure:
No. 18, January 6, 1933,
from Dairen, with emolosure.
M
134
2/4/83
imah
CES
Feb. C19d3

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.96)
6198
February
To the American Consul,
894C.114 NARCOT ICS/73
Dairen, Mamehuria.
The Department of State acknowledges receipt
of despatch No. 18, dated January 6, 1933, from
the Amerioam Consul at Dairen in regard to the laws
and regulations governing the traffio in narootio
drugs in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
The Department appreciates the time and effort
that was devoted to the preparation of the summary
which accompanied the despatoh under reference, es-
peeially in view of the difficulties attendant upon
the gathering of detalled information of this kind
under the oiroumstances obtaining in Dairen.
8040.114 Zareeties/69

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
February 11 1933
CONEIDENTIAL
894C.114
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
eneloses herewith, for the oonfidential informtion
NARCOTICS/74
of the Commissioner of Narcotios, a copy of despatch
No. 19, dated January 18, 1933, from the American Consul
at Deiren, whioh summarizes cases of 1llicit traffio in
narootio drugs whioh were taken up by the local authori-
ties 1n 1932.
Enclosure:
No. 19, January 18, 1933,
from Dairen.
R1SJF1EMP
z/11/35
FEB11,1988

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.93)
February 23 1933
PARMETIAL
JA
894C.114 NARCOTICS
Attention: Bureau of Marootios
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
oneloses herewith, for the confidential information
of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy of a despatoh
Gated January 16, 1933, from the American Consul at
Dairen to the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo, in regard
to the budget of the Government of the Leased Terri tory
175
Attention is oalled to the Consul's remarks concern-
ing the income and expenditure of the opium monopoly
and to the complioated finanoial structure which makes
it diffioult to determine what proportion of the total
revenue is derived from the opium monopoly. The large
imerease in the comtemplated grant for the opium monopoly
io werthy of note.
A true copy of
theedrig
re to Tokyo,
2/2c/8s

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.96)
ENU:SS
si
Copy for Department.
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Da1ren, Manchuria, Jenunry 16, 1933.
SUBJECT: Kwantung Government udget, 1933-34.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambessador,
Tokyo, Japan.
Sir:-
From informetion obtuined from the inence de-
pertment of to Kwentung Government, I have the honor
to make the following report on the proposed 1933-34
fiscal year budget for the Government of the Kwentung
Leased Territory.
ns the mbassy is no doubt awere,
the budget hes been anproved by the Cuhinet; and looal
offioials of the Kwuntung Government seem confident that
1t will be pussed without alterati n when the Liet next
meets.
The budget for the coline fiscal year (April 1,
1933, to Maroh 31, 1934) cells for an expend1ture of
Yen 25,864,792.Th1s 1s un increuse of Yen 3,128,776
over the budget for the current fiscal yeer. The
budget for 1932-33 amounted to Yen 22,736, 016, und that
for 1931-32 to Yen 22,171,316. It is wor thy of note
that the budeet is virtually unaffected by the depre-
oiation in the gold value of the Japanese yen.
Neither salaries nor the prices of aterials purohased
looally or 1n Japan have inoreased; and the Government
has very few expenses involving the purchase of for-
eign exohenge. The increase in the budget for the
next fisoal year may therefore be taken as en actuel
inorease for the purpose of expanding government eo-
tivity; not as a measure to offset the depreoiated
buying power of the yen in terms of other currencies.
For purposes of referenoe and comparison there
1s given below a teble of the budgets for the pest,
ourrent, and coming fisoal years:
ANNUAL RSVENUE
1031-32
1932-33
1933-34
Ordinary
¥14,571,689 ¥13,645,453 16,320,734
Extraordinary
7,599,627 9,090,563 9,544,058
TOTAL
22,171,316 22,736,016 ¥25,864,792
ANNUAL

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
ANNUAL EXPENDITURE 1931-32
1932-33
1933-34
Ordinery
¥17,657,273 ¥16,373,747 ¥17,616,692
Extraordintry
4.514,043
8.362.269
8.248.100
TOTAL
22,171,316 22,736,061
25,864,792
There 1s to be an increase of epproximately Yen
2,700,000 1n ordinary revenue s compared w1th last
year. This increase will be mede possible, ao-
oording to statements of the Finunce  ection of the
Government, through increased texation. lthough
a clear explanation was not forthcoming, 1t is under-
stood thet en incrense in the rate of present ta es,
rather han additional taxes, is plenned. an attempt
to obtain en itemization of ordinary revenue wus un-
successful. The follow ing stutement of ordinery
revenue for the f1soel year 193l-3? w1ll serve, how-
ever, to indicate the broad generel : ouroes from which
revenue is expeoted:
Ord1 ary Revenue for the F1scal Yeer 1931-32.
Taxes
¥3,595,173
Income from Government property 9,804,107
Revenue stumps
621,896
Misceiluneous
550,513
Tot:1 ¥14,571,689
The failure to include the income from the sele of
opium through the Kwontung Monopoly Burecu in re-
onue stetements wis expluined by my informent as
due to the fact that ali funds obteined on this ac-
count ere remitted ciicctly to the Japenese tre sury.
The money may be said to come back to Kwentung, how-
ever, as part of the &nnu'l  vernment grent.I
was informed thet the inc one from the sule of opium
amounted to only a little over one million yen 
year, and that from this figure must be suttracted
the oost of operating the Bureuu. It is believed
that the inoome from the sale of opium is considerenly
larger than one million yen. Severel yeers ago
the Consul in charge of this offioe estimated that
it amounted to l6%: of the totel revenue of the Kwan-
tung Government. If oredenoe be gi ven to the state-
ment cf the Kwentung Government ofricials, the impli-
oation in the vbove estimate that the opium inoome
forms part of the Government revenue 1s not oorrect.
Bxtraordinery revenue for the next fisoel yeer,
with comparative figures for the present fisoal year,
1s subdivided as follows:
Extraordinary Revenue
1932-33
1933-34
Imperial Government grent ¥4,000,000
¥5,000,000
Loan
3,604,425
3,226,643
Forward from past year
969,082
957,204
Others
517.056
360.171
Total 9,090,563 9,544,058
The

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
The inorease of one million yen in the Government
grant 1s the only noteworthy feature in the above
statement. The revonue 1tem "Loun" 1s aleo dos-
oribed at times as "Public bonds". Compered with
previous yeurs the revenue from this source in the
1932-33 and 1933-34 f1soai years has incrensed tre-
mendously. In 19s1-32 the revenue from loans or
publ1c bonds was only Yen 600,000. If the Govern-
ment oontinues to borrow at this rate it will heve
a bonded indebtedness of no small dimensions. It
1s interesting to observe that, w1th only alight veri-
ations, the amount of the annuul Government grant 1s
ulmost oqual to the amount ex ended for police guards,
the large majority of whon are stationed in the South
Menchuria Railway towns. The C vernment gront mey
therefore be oonsidered us a lump payment of the
cost of these r' ilway to'n police who, t: a mntter
of feot, perform no service in or for the Kwantung
Territory. Viewed in t is light, the Kwentung
Government, with the exception of the pust two
years when extraordinary condition: r ve mude com-
paretively large lonns necossery, may be suid to
be self-supportin; thet is, r venue from locul
sources is suffioient to cover the Government's
expenditures. This is  ore th'n truc if the
inoome from th: sele of opium wure considered us
locel revenue. The preceedine st tements con-
cerning revenue and expenditures are made because
of the prevuilin belief that the Kwantunt Govern-
mont is heavily dependent upon overnment rants
to belance its budget.
recent publicntion of
the Kwentung G vernment stated that, over u per-
iod of 25 years, cggregate Government grants hnd
acoounted for 30g of the Territorial C vernment's
revenue. This statement is no doubt true but
certa inly during recent years the Governnent grunts
havo been used to defrey extre-Territorial expenses;
and thut money which has been spent for striotly
Territorial onterprises has been raised in the
Territory through taxation, loans, and the rent
and sale of Government property.
an itemizetion of ordinary expenditures under
the new budget could not oe obtuined. The fol-
lowing statement of expenditures for 193l-32, the
last oomplete fisoal yeer, will inoicete the nor-
mal distribution:
Ordinary Expenditures durine the fisoel yeer 193l-32.
Kwantung Government offices
¥1,590,751
Courts and prisons
526,693
Police
4,235,821
Eduoation
2,410,287
Enoouragement of Industry
320,497
Monopoly Bureau (opium)
1,440,868
Communications
5,174,480
Marine Office
172,806
Hospitals
482.781
Land and Buildings
145,053
Prevention and control of contagious
diseases
37,905

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Refunding of loan
309,780
Pensions
445,404
Others
64,207
Reserves
300,000
An intelligible explenation of the meaning end
divisional bas1s of "ordinary" and "extraordinery"
expenditures seems impossible to obtain. Some
itoms, of course, noturolly fell within one classi-
fioation or the other but others, which appeer a
ordinery in one budget, unacoountably crop up as
extreordinery in unother budget. Also the same
1tem will be inoluded in both ordinery and extre-
ordinary expenditures with ut, in meny cesos, eny
olear reason for the division.
It would seem
safe to assume, however, in connection wi th the
following list of extraordinery expenditures con-
templated in the 193.3-34 budget, that the money
1s for new undertakings or the expension of exist-
ing enterprises.
Such, at letst, w s the explena-
tion given by the finence depurtment of the Govern-
ment. The list is obviously incomplete us the
totel of the various items of expense is only Yen
6,417,928 wherees the totel ap ropriution for ex-
traordinory expenditures 1s Yen 8,248,l00. The
itemization and emounts :nd the explenations of
the items were furnished by the Kwontung Govern-
ment's finunce depertment.
Extraordinary Expend1tures for New or nlerged
Entorprises - Budget, 1933-34
1. Establishment of meteorological observutory
with branch observatory at Ssupingkui
47,080
2. Increase of primary school classes
51,570
3. Esteblishment of Ealt Experiment :tation
48,999
4. Inoressed expenses of Opium Monopoly Bureeu
464,645
5. Expunsion of Post, Tele hone en Telegraph
fecilitics
374,497
6. Brenoh Merine office ,t Pulentien
13,136
7. Interest on loun and other peyments
96,907
8. Increase of pension fund
23,770
9. New publio works and replecements
426,023
10. Telephone and telegraph, extension and repair
644,658
11. Subsidy for "Looal expenses"
1,000,000
12. New and inoreased expenditures in connection
with the Manchurian ad tuation
3,226.643
Total
6,417,928
The

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
The uppropriation for meteorologioel observa-
tories is made, of course, on behelf of military
and commeroiel tvietion in the Territory and Man-
churie. Prior to September, l931, there ves no
air transportation servioe in Manohuria. Now
rogular servioe is maintained between most of the
importent oities of Manchurie and conneotions are
possible through Dairen end Koreu with Jepan. The
proposed meteorological observetories will be of
considerable servioe to military and commerciel
avietion in furnishing more exect infor:mtion con-
cerning weather and flying conditions.
The new Selt Experiment .tation is art of the
plan to inorense the production of snlt in the Kwen-
tung Loased Territory. The : tation b.ild ings will
oon be completed at  cost of Yen 150, 0o0. The
proposed ap ropriation is for operttine expens s.
One of th primary ob jeotives in estublishing the
Experiment tation is to promote the roduction of
industriel salts for export to Japan.
No expl netion wes orthcoming concernin: the
proposed inorease in the expendi tures of the Opium
Monopoly Bureau, other than that the Yen 464,645
was required in eddition to the rd:nary : opropriu-
tion for the sureau.
 sugcustion thet it might
be for use in connection with the lewly estanlished
"Manohoukuo" opium monopoly we: pro.uptiy dismissed.
Regarding the expansion of post, telep.one,
end telegroph ftcilities,  number of items were
mentioned, chief among them being increased money
ordor, postel deposit, und percel post fucilitius,
accommodations for new telephone subscribers, tnd
1mprovement in the tel gruphic service.
4 statemont of the kind of new public works
contemplated oould not b: ootnined. The sume wos
true with regord to the proposed extension of the
tele phone and telegraph systems.
The vague item entitled "Subsidy for locul
oxpenses" was expleined us being a pe yment to the
South Menohuria Railway Company for educationel,
modical, snd researoh work in the railwey towns
in Manohuria. If this explanation is correct, and
I he ve no reason to doubt it, the "subsidy" would up-
pear to be an indireot method employed by the Japan-
ose Government for assisting the S. M. R. Compeny
in its non-produotive enterprises. It mey be simply
a coinoidenoe that the Government grant to the Kwan-
tung Gove:'nment has been inoreased the exect amount
of this "subs1dy" to the S. M. R., that is, one mil-
11on yon.
The last item whioh provides for an appropria-
tion of Yen 3,226,643 for new and inoreased expend1-
tures in conneotion with the Manohurian si tuation is
by fer the largest on the list.It 1s praotically
equivalent, as a matter of faot, to the inorease in
the

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -
the budget for the coming yeer us compared with the
ourrent yeer. The esteblishment of the office of
the Governor of the Kwantung Government in Chun chun
(Hsinching) end the frequent trips which offioiels
of the Government must make between Lriren und Chung-
ohun account for a part of this proposed expendi turo.
However, un incrense in the number of Kwentung police
stationed in the S. M. R. areas in Manohuria and the
1mprovement in their fighting equipment will take the
greater portion of the approprietion. It wes ex-
plained that disturbed conditions alont the ruilways,
brought about by organized gr ups of "volunteers" and
bandits, require thut the police protection be increes-
ed (to what extent is not known) end thut more effeotive
weapons (mechine uns wero specificully mentioned)
be given to the police units.
One fact is cletr from  study of che bucget.
The intimacy und lack of clerity with regord to
functions which charecterizes the rel tionship of
the Kwantung Government, the Kwentung .rmy, und
the South Manohurie hailway Compeny ure reflected
in the Kwantung Government's budget. The Kwan-
tung Government pays the police st:tioned in the
railwey towns contr lled by the . . A. Company.
The Kwantung Covernment gives a "sussidy" t. the
S. M. R. Compeny for its educetional, medicel, and
reseerch work in Manchurie. The uwentung .rmy,
according to the finance depertment of the Govern-
ment peys the salary of the G vernor of Kwantung.
And taxes pa id by the S. i. h. Company, a lso ac-
cording to the finanoe department, constitute a
substantial portion of the income of the Kwentung
Government.
Respootfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
Americen Consul
851
JCV/N
Two copios to the Depurtment
Copy for Consul General, Tokyo
Copy for Commeroial Attache, Tokyo
Copy for Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulete Gencrul, Wukden
Copy to Consulate General, Herbin

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.90)
Juria, May 4, 10ss.
STHIORLY CONILDINTIAL
Y 26 35
Divisdon of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 2 1933
M. R. Mieholson, Esquire,
Depertmert at Stato
BH
Capics sent to
89
U. S. Treasury Attache,
Trickay (Customo
4C
Shanghai, China.
C
ndicatics)
Dear Mr. Niohelson,
With referenee to your letter of February 10, 1933,
regarding the movements of the Frenehman named Devineau,
formerly one of the leaders of the narootie group in
11471
Europe, I have been infomed in confidenoe that the Japan-
ese police authorities here have only recently received
C
advice from Shanghal to be on the lookout for the man as
he is expected in Dairen at any time now. I shall infomy
you of his arrival and subsequent movements immediately I
822.114n1L
now of them.
The return of Phillip Shifman (F. V. Sehiehmamm) to
the Far East and Dairen has been the signal for an um-
usual amount of related traveling netivity on the part
of the various suspeets in Dairen. As you do doubt
know, he came frem Shanghai to Kobe early in Mareh or

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.95)
一8 -
Late in February. On Marah 1sth he arrived 1n Dairen
frem Kobe, departed for Timmtsin on Maroh 24th, and re-
tamed to Dairem fram Tientain on May Znd. Begrbrayer
(mepasaier) went to fientsin om pril l4th and has not
yet retusmed; doureviteh went to Tiemtsin en April 19th;
and youmg Xapustin on April lsth. In se far as can be
ascertaimed, meither have returned to Dairen. M. Pod-
liasekuk went to Tientsin on Mareh l9th and returned to
Dairem em April 2kmd. It is understood that the Japan-
ese are trying to locate Shamansiy, Harbin merahant and
asseciate of Shifman.
with reference to Beerbrayer, who has been in the
forwarding and import business in Dairen for many years,
the Britiah Consul showed me a striotly confidential re-
port some time ago relative to his suspicious activities.
In addition to his forwarding and importing business,
Beerbrayer is Dairen representative of the China Fur
Trading Company of Timmtsin. In November last the
manager of the looal branch of the Hongkong and Shang-
ha1 Banking Corporation informed the British Consul of
certain financial operations conducted by Beerbrayer
which were such as to arouse suspieien. Beerbrayer
had settled an exahange oontraot for hl0,000 and was

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.94)
一 8 -
purebssing sterling drafts on Lonéen (they totaled
28,z00 at the time the information was given to the
Bm taah Cemsul) made payable to the Chine Fur Treling
Gampeny in Tiemtsin. These drafts, accerding to
Beerbrayer, were to pay for furs purohased in Leipais,
the inferenee being that the furs were being imported
1nte Dairen by Beerbrayer direetly, who was purohasing
them through the China Fur Trading Company, or by
Beerbrayer as representative of the China Fur Trading
Cempany. A eamual interest taken by the Bank in the
matter caused Beerbrayer to stop the transaotions. I
have asoertained that similar transaotions have not
been undertaken by Beerbrayer at the local branoh of
the National Oity Bank of New York.
Granting that the transactions were oonnected with
the legitimate importation of furs, whioh is extremely
unlikely since the total importation of furs and skins
1nto Dairen averages only U.3. $100,000 annnally and
the business is divided among a number of firms of
seemingly mere impertance than Beerbrayer's, I m in-
fermed that the method of finanoing the transactiens
was mest umsuel. I am not in possession of mfficient
date te astiry an epinien but I kmow that the British
2

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.93)
Cemsul suspeots complicity in the drug traffic. You
mo deubt know that in the disolosures made in oomaeotion
with the Eliepoulos ease Beerbrayer's name was smong these
memtiened as being conneoted with the traffic in the Far
Bast.
Respeatfully yours,
John Carter Vineent
American Consul.
Three eepi ee to Department
Cepy to Consulate General, Tokyos
 t
the
um

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
RECU
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
6
June
SuBJECT: JUN 10 3aori-Takushima Narootics Case
Copysent
CONFIDENTIAL
Diviyion of
FAD CICTERNAFENIRS
THE HONORABLE
JUN11933
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
B
Deperemere or scare
H
WASHINGTON.
Capy taken
SIR:
89
I have the honor to refer the Department to my
4C
Baori-Takushima narcotics case at Dairen. It may
4 NARCOTICS/77
be recalled that on April 4, 1932, Judge Oda sentenced
Takushima and Bacri to imprisonments of one year and
six months respectively, fined George Tribe and Jacob
844c114)ar
Lelohitsky one hundred yen each, and acquitted Boris
Bogdanovsky and Nison Granevsky. The Public Pro-
ourator, feeling that the sentences were too light
and the acquittals undeserved, appealed the case.
The appeal was granted but for one reason or another
retrial of the case has been postponed, several de-
finite dates having been set and cancelled. The case
is now due for hearing on September 20, 1933.
Baori forfeited bond and escaped to Shanghai be-
fore the hearing of the case in March/April 1932. I
am infermed that he is now in Paris. One familiar
JUN 20 1933
with the close surveillance to which the movements of
FILED
persons in and out of Dairen are subjeoted, must wonder
at

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
● 8 •
at the laxity whioh permitted a man sub ject to prose-
oution to escape. Although I can obtain no informa-
tion from the authorities, Takushima is understood to
have been accorded suspended sentence treatment.
Tribe and Lelohitsky paid their fines. It appears,
however, that because of the Procurator's appeal of
the case all those concerned, including Bogdanovsky
and Granevsky, were kept under bond and were only
allowed to leave Dairen upon obtaining permission
from the authorities.
Bogdanovsky, believing that his Japanese lawyer
had obtained permission for him to leave, went to
Shanghai. When he returned to Dairen several days
ago (May l6th) he was placed under arrest by the Har-
bour Police and sent to Port rthur. pparently he
was able to satisfy the requirenents of the court for
he was released the next day and permitted to continue
his journey to Harbin. At the time of his arrest,
the Police took from Bogdanovsky a note book containing
the following significant names and addresses:
. Abramovitch Galota (White Russian)
Mehmed Ali Pacha 2829,
Stambul, Turkey.
8. W. Lulkin (Russian-American)
35, Konnaia Street, Harbin, China
(Agent for Mitsui Fire Insurance Company).
Kosterianitz (White Russian)
206, Kitaiskaya, Harbin, China
(Agent for Mitsui Fire Insurance Company).
D. Schreier

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
 3-
D. Sohreier (German)
35, Landshutter Street, W. 30, Berlin
(Exporter and Importer of Silks).
Monegi Inouye (Japanese)
No. 4o6 Kotobuki Road, Tientsin, China.
Henry Baori (Frenoh)
89 Faubourg Poissonniere, Paris
45 Chaussee de Autin, Paris.
Minkofsky,
274 ▲venue Doumesuil, Paris
(Motion Picture Broker).
Andre Christoff (French),
48 Rue de Lancry, Paris
(Wine Merchant).
Louis Lyon,
136 Rue de la Pompe, Paris.
D. Shviriansky (French)
19 Avenue des Lumieres Cacham, Paris.
Strikovaky (Polish)
11 Bialostoohanski, Bialystok, Poland
(Clothing Dealer).
8. Brinberg,
42 Victor Emmanuel, Shanghai
765 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai.
F. Dobrenko, Miss, (White Russian)
Boarding House, 1l Rue Porttie, Shanghai.
Gerthart est Hey (German)
16 Spitaler Street, Hamburg, Germany.
A. Rubinstein (White Russian)
Grocery Store, 15 San Tai Hutung, Peiping.
A. Gudasin,
c/o The Fashion Shop,
276 Victoria Road, Tientsin.
Dobrenko (White Russian)
316 Route Frelubt, Shanghai
(Candy Manufaoturer).
. G. Rubinnauut (Polish)
42 Policheskaya Street, Harbin.
Temmenitaky

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Tesmenitaky (White Russian)
Kitaiskaya, Harbin
(Shoe Store)
(Brother-in-law of Bogdanovsky).
Alexander Goldbery (Polish)
1180 Bubbling Well Road, Shanghai.
Baradafkin (White Russian)
Wine Merchant, 435 Road Mersies, Shanghai.
Abramovitoh (Serbian)
Insurance Agent, 950 Avenue Joffre, Shanghai.
Katcheretz (White Russian)
Insurance agent, 404 Avenue Joffre, Shangha1.
Z. Bogart (merican)
Suite 807 Bendiz Building,
1206 Maple Avenue,
Los ngeles, California.
(Bogdanovsky's brother).
Lurie (White Russian)
Broker, 56 Szechuen Road, Shangha1.
Solovey (White Russian)
Skin and Fur Merchant, Yamagata-dori, Dairen,
Post Office Box 148.
L. Berkovitch (White Russian),
135 Kitaiskaya, Harbin.
Obgoff (White Russian)
Merchant, 92 Birgiwaya, Harbin.
Orgelick (White Russian)
Merchant, 714, Avenue Joffre, Shanghai.
Orshefsky (White Russian)
Commission Merchant, Kitaiskaya, Harbin.
B. F. Schner (Polish),
Post Office Box 398, Harbin.
Nison Granevsky (White Russian)
Post Office Box ll4, Dairen.
On the foregoing list the occurrence of such names
as Louis Lyon, Shviriansky, Strikovsky, Brinberg, and
Bacri will attract attention because the names are also
on

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
 5-
on the Department's list of alien suspects. That
Bogdanovsky should have the names and addresses of
so many suspects is incriminating evidence of a
very convincing nature. The other names may, of
course, simply be those of friends of Bogdanovsky,
unassociated with the narootics traffio.
Their
association with the names of known traffickers how-
ever invites suspicion.
Respectfully yours,
rhelt Kt
John Carter Vincent
merican Consul.
811.4
JCV:L
Original and two copies to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
Copy to Consulate General, Tientsin.
Carro
BecSive Fr

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
m30-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, May 15, 1935.
SUBJECT:
Regulations for the Control of Opiumtin the
1—100 G P O
South Manchuria Railway Ares
16
June
Divielon of
THE HONORABLE
FARLASJERN AFFAIRS
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
JUN11933
RECO
33
S
1N12
WASHINGTON.
Uapertmon af State
89
Wd
I have the honor to enclose a translation of the
REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF OPIUM IN THE SOUTH MAN-
4
CHURIA RAILWAY AREAS from the Japanese text which ap-
NARCOTICS
peared in the Kwantung Government Official Gazette No.
889 of April 25, 1933, as Kwantung Government Ordinance
No. 14. The Regulations became effective on May 10,
1933.
S
lthough the only reference to the Kwantung Govern-
8
844C.114av.
ment Opium Monopoly Bureau occurs in Article 12 regarding
the sale of opium to retail dealers and its distribution
free of charge for scientifio experiment, I have been in-
formed by officials of the Kwantung Government that the
purpose of the Regulations is to extend the operations
of the Monopoly Bureau to the Railway Areas. The en-
closed Regulations must therefore be read and considered
together with the Kwantung Leased Territory Opium Law,
JUN 22 1933
the Imperial Ordinance providing for the Organization of
FILED
the Kwantung Government Monopoly Bureau, and the Regula-
tions for the Enforcement of the Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory Opium Law, all of which were transmitted to the
Department

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
Department with this Consulate's despatoh of December
9, 1929.
The Regulations for the Railway Areas are substan-
tially the same as those for the Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory, but the latter are far more detailed and specifio.
▲s a case in point, the Regulations for the Railway
Area state simply that persons violating the Ordinance
"shall be put under detention or fined" without speci-
fying the period of imprisonnent or the amount of the
fine. The Regulations for the Leased Territory, on
the other hanu, state specifically the amount of fine
and the period of imprisonnent for each offence. It
may be assumed therefore that where the Regulations
for the Railway Areas are deficient in respect to any
situation or administrative procedure, the provisions
of the Territorial Regulations will be enforced.
It is appropriate in connection with the Regula-
tions for the South Manchuria Railway Areas to refer to
the recent opium law and regulations promulgated by
"Manchukuo".
Translations of these were forwarded to
the Department with the Mukden Consulate General's
SPIunILNo
despatoh No./552 of March 10, 1933.
It does not appear that the Japanese authorities,
prior to the advent of "Manohukuo", felt that they were
justified in extending their opium monopoly system, as
operated in Kwantung, into the railway areas although
they olaimed and practiced virtually complete juridical
and administrative rights in these areas. Chinese law,
loosely enforoed, prohibited opium smoking in Manohuria,
as in China proper. It was no doubt in deference to
th1

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
this faot that the Japanese refrained from instituting
an opium monopoly in the railway areas. With the or-
ganization of the "Manchukuo" Opium Monopoly Bureau
such considerations oeased to exist. From the Japan-
ese point of view the Kwantung Government's right to
extend its opium monopoly system into the railway
areas is not open to question. Had an attempt to do
so been made prior to the 18th of September, 1931, how-
ever, there is little doubt that it would have met with
strenuous opposition on the part of the Chinese authori-
ties.
"Manchukuo" of course has no objections. The
action at present is of only technical interest in con-
nection with the general subject of Japanese jurisdiotion
in the South Manchuria Railway Areas as granted or acqui-
esced in by the Chinese and assumed by the Japanese prior
to the 18th of September, 1931.
Respectfully yours,
hlant VVIment
John Carter Vincent
merican Consul.
Enclosuret
Translation of Regulations for the Control
of Opium in the South Manchuria Railway Zone.
811.4
JOV:L
In triplicate
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Cops to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
South Manoaria
antung Government Ordinanos No. lé
(Tranmlated from the Kwantung Government
Ofricial Gazette No. 889 or April 25, 1935)
The Regulations for the control of Opium in the
South Manoburia Railway Zone are determined as follows
894C.I14 NARCOTICS/78
Nobuyoshi Muto
Governor of Kwantung.
REGHOLATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF OPIUM IN THE
SOUTH MANCHURIA RAILWAY ZONE
The expression opium in the Ordinance shall
mean raw opium and opium paste for smoking.
Art. 8.
Opium shall not be smoked; provided however
that for the time being the Governor of Kwantung
may, in cases only in which he deems it necessary
for the relief of confirmed smokers who are not
minors, give permission for the smoking of opium.
Art. 3.
Persons desiring to receive permission to
smoke opium shall furnish particulars of their
domicile, address, name, age and occupation, and
make application to the Governor of Kwantung.
Art. 4.
Certification of confirmed smokers shall be
as a result of diagnosis by officially appointed
doctors.
when a permit to smoke opium is given, a
fixed amount to be smoked in one day shall be
specified therein, and a certificate for smoking
granted.
rt. 5.
Opium and the implements for smoking opium
may not be imported or exported from abroad, or
from one part of the Railway Zone to another.
Provided that where the Government imports from
abroad or from other parts of the Railway Zone
medioines or raw opium necessary for the relief
of confirmed opium smokers, this regulation
shall not apply.
art. 6.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
Art. 6.
The sale or distribution of raw opium shall
be undertaken by the Government.
art. 7.
Opium and the implements for smoking opium
may not be menufaotured, bought or sold, given
or received, owned or kept in one's possession
unless the permission of the Governor of Kwan-
tung is received. But this shall not apply in
cases which come under one of the following
sub-headings:
(1)
Where a retail dealer in opium manu-
factures opium paste for smoking or im-
plements for the smoking of opium, or
buys or sells, gives or receives, owns
or has in his possession raw opium,
opium paste for smoking or implements
for the smoking of opium.
(2)
Where a confirmed opium smoker who has
received permission to smoke opium re-
ceives, owns, or has in his possession
raw opium, opium paste for smoking or
implements for the smoking of opium.
(3)
Where a manufacturer of drugs receives,
ons, or has in his possession raw opium
for the purpose of making drugs.
art. 8.
shes fron the smoking of opium shall not be
bought or sold except when they are purchased by
the Governnent.
art. 9.
Buildings for the smoking of opium shall not
be established nor maintained.
rt. 10.
Poppies may not be grown for the purpose of
opium manufacture.
Art. ll.
Retail dealers in opium shall be appcinted
as
necessary by the Governor of Kwantung.
Art. 12.
Opium may be sold as required by the Kwantung
Government Opium Monopoly Bureau to retail dealers
in opium and manufacturers of drugs who are in re-
ceipt of permission to buy opium.
In oases where sohools, laboratories or ex-
perimental stations require opium for the purpose
of scientifio experiments, the Opium Monopoly Bu-
reau of the Kwantung Government shall make dis-
tribution free of charge.
Art. 13.
Persons who have received permission to smoke
opium may present the certificate for smoking and
receive from a retail dealer in opium implements
for smoking opium, or opium. But except where
the permission of the competent police station
has

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
has been obtained beoause of travelling or other
mavoidable reasons they may not receive more
than the amount fixed for smoking in a period of
ten days.
rt. 14.
Retail dealers in opium may not hand over
opium or implements for smoking opium to persons
not in possession of certifioates for smoking
opium, nor may they hand over opium in excess
of the limits of the provisory clause to the
preoeding article.
The retail sale of opium shall be carried
out against cash payments.
rt. 15.
When a retail dealer in opium changes his
domioile, residence or name, or when he ceases
to oarry on business, or dios, the fact shall
be reported to the Governor of Kwantung by the
principal or his family within ten lays.
art. 16.
 retail dealer in opium shall furnish a
book of sales, and a book of purchases, of opium
and of implements for smcking opium.
In the book of purchases of opium and im-
plements for smoking opiun shall be clearly en-
tered on every oocasion of a purchase, the nature,
amount, price end date of purchase.
In the book of sules of opium and implements
for smoking opiun shall be clearly entered, on
every occasion of a sale, the nature, amount,
price and date of the sale, and the residence,
name and age of the purohaser, together with such
other details as the Governor of Kwantung shall
direct.
The aocount books in the two preceding clause
shall be preserved for a period of five years.
art. 17.
Retail dealers in opium shall report to the
police authorities concerned by the fifth of every
month the opium and instrunents for smoking opium
received and paid for in the previous month.
rt. 18.
When a retail dealer in opium or a manufacturer
of drugs has his appointment or permit canceled, or
ceases to carry on business, or dies, he shall with-
in ten days of the ocourrence of the circumstances
in question receive the permission of the Governor
of Kwantung for the measures for dealing with the
remaining opium and implements for smoking opium.
In the oase of the death of the prinoipal the
precedure of the preceding clause shall be carried
out by his successor or family.
Art, 19.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
Art. 19.
The Governor of Kwantung may cause the compe-
tent officials to visit and inspect places of re-
tail sale of opium.
rt. 20.
Retail dealers in opium shall, in matters con-
neoted with their business, observe strictly the
instruetions of the Governor of Kwantung.
art. 21.
When a retail dealer il opium contravenes this
Ordinance, or orders issued on the basis of, or
measures based on this Ordinance, or takes action
iimproper to his business,  i business shall be
suspended or his appointment canceled.
rt. 22.
Persons who have contravened this Ordinance,
or orders issued on the basis of, or measures based
on this Ordinance, shall be put under detention or
fined.
art. 23.
Where a retail dealer in opium or a manu-
facturer of drugs is a minor or a legally incom-
petent person, the penalties of this Ordinance
shall be applied to the legal representative.
art. 24.
Retail dealers in opium or manufacturers of
drugs shall not esuape the penalties under this
Ordinance if their legal representatives, heads
of their household, fililies, persons dwelling
with them, employees or other persons engaged in
the business contravene the re ulations of this
Ordinance in regard to the business, even though
such persons are not acting under the personal
orders of the said retailers or manuf cturers.
Art. 25.
In the case of a juridical person the penal-
ties under this Ordinance shal: be applied to the
representative.
Supplementary Regulation
This Ordinance shall be brought into force from l0th
May, 1933.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.92)
June 16 1938
RR
CONLIDNTIAL
4GJ1F41NARCUTFOST7gAL
Attontion: Bureau of Narootios
The Aoting Beoretary of State presents his compli-
ments to the Honcrable the Seoretary of the Treasury
and, with reference to this Department's letter dated
December 8, 1932, enoloses herewith, for the confiden-
tial informtion of the Comissioner of Narcotios, a
copy of despatoh No. 41, dated May 20, 1933, from the
American Consulate at Dairen, in regard to the movements
of certain persons involved in the Baori-Takushima nar-
coties ease and concerning the seizure of a list of nams
and addresses whioh ms in the possession of one
Bogdanovaky, who was implioated in this case.
Enclosure:
No. 41. May 20, 1933,
A true copy of
from Dairen.
the signet g
VD
20
c/18/8s
CB
Jon. 16 19

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.92)
MAY 29 1933
8110
894C.I14 NARCOTiCS/78
TRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narootios
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
with reference to this Department's letter dated
May 18, 1933, enaloses herew1th, for the confidential
information of the Aoting Commissioner of Narootios,
a copy cr a letter, dated May 4, l933, addressed to
Mr. M. R. Nicholson, United States Treasury Attaché
2
at Shanghai by the Amerioan Consul at Dairen, in regard
to the movements in the Far East of certain important
narootios trafriokers, inoluding Devineau, Phillip
shifman and Gourevitoh.
Enelosure:
A true copy of
Letter, May 4, 1933.
the signed origi
to Treasury Attaché
nal.
as Shanghai From Consul
at Dairen.
R
s/1/
5.4.
CR

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.90)
MAY 2 9 1933
roorto
BTRIOTLY CONFIDENTIAL
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
enelomtes herewith, for the striotly confidential in-
formation of the Commissioner of Customs, a copy of
a letter, dated Mayp4, 1933, addressed to Mr. M. R.
Mieholson, United States Treasury Attaché at Shanghai
by the Amerioan Consul at Dairen, in regard to the
movements in the Far East of certain important narootios
trarriekors.
Enclosure:
A true copy of
the signed origi-
Lester, Mey 4, 1933, to
Re1.
Treasury Attaohé at
hamghai from Consul at
Dairen.
5/81/8s
CR
.1.
wo

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.90)
June 22 1963
RR
Attention: Bareen of Hareoties
The Leting Seeretary of State presents his compliments
to the Momorable the Seeretary of the Treasury and, with
refesemee to this Department's letter dated April 5, 1935,
emeloses herewith, for the information of the Commissioner
NARCOTICS/80
of Mareoties, a eopy of despeteh No. 39 dated May 15, 1933,
from the Ameriean Consulate at Dairen, with a copy of its
emelosare, in regard to the regulatiomfor the control of
the traffic in opium in the South Manohuria Railway area.
melosures:
Prom American Consulate, Dairen,
No. 80. May 15, 1955, with
enslosure.
A.
FB:LI: BJL
JUN22,1988
Am copy
6/m1/83
Theananed orle
nat.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
-47-
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, Manchuria, July 27, 1933.
SUBJECT:
The Shirakawa "Benzolin Case".
1—1006 OPO
Dtvlston of
FARFASTERNEFIRS
THE HONORABLE
A
AUG 25 1933
TE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
RECO
EG39N3
WASHINGTON.
894C.
0
I have the honor to refer the Department to
Consul Langdon's despatches of June 23, 1930, and
26
June 4, 1931, concerning the above case, and to my
114 Tnicn
despatch of January 18, 1933, in which it was stated
that the public procurator, after the Appeal Court
had upheld the original decision of acquittal, had
appealed the case to the Supreme Court at Port Arthur
and that the Court had ordered a re-trial.
8
On July l9th Chief Justice Fujisaki of the
Supreme Court, assisted by Associate Justices Yasuda
and Tanaka, found all ten of the accused guilty and
sentenced them as follows:
T. SHIRAKAWA
4 months imprisonment
Yen 300 fine.
M. KAWAI
2 months imprisonment
S. KOMATSU
3 months imprisonment
8. TANI
3358888
T.
KANAURA
KAMANO
months imprisonment
SUZdKI
KANAKAMI
AUG 88 1933
YOREZAWA
FILED
Periods

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
Periods of detention as unconvioted prisoners are
to be counted as service of sentence. This means that
all of the prisoners, with the exception of Kawai and
Suzuki, were freed immediately after judgment was pro-
nounced as they had all been detained for period equi-
valent to the length of their respective sentences.
Suzuki has one month more to serve. Kawai, the Kwan-
tung Government official found guilty of connivance in
the case, has been allowed a stay of execution of his
sentence. Gifts which he received for his assistance
were confiscated as were also 1,350 kilograms of narco-
tics found in his residence.
These are amazingly mild sentences for men who had
smuggled 5,55o kilograms of narcotic drugs, valued at
millions of yen, into Dairen. The Supreme Court is to
be congratulated, however, for finding them guilty be-
cause for a time it appeared that, due to faulty legal
interpretation and to the effective array of defence
lawyers brought to Dairen by the accused, they would
be acquitted, as indeed they were by the Dairen court
and the Appeal Court. The public procurator is also
to be commended for his persistence.
Respeotfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
X
811.4
JOV江
Original and two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.92)
Angust 28 1958
R
Attentiom! Barem of Hareotice
894C.114
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments to
the Eomorable the Seeretary of the Treasury and, re-
ferring to this Department's letter of February ll.
1985, eneloses herewith, for the information of the
NARCOTiCS/82
Commissioner of Nareoties, a copy of despatch No. 47
dated July 27, 1933, from the American Consulate at
Dairen, in regard to the re-trial of T. Shirakawa and
nime others in conneetion with the illegal importation
into Dairen of bensolin.
melosure:
From Comsalate Deiren
No. 47. July 27. 1953.
AUG 20, 1988
A trua copy of
origi-
A
nal
FB:ELI: EJL
8/25/33
0

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.90)
eptember 4193
R
Attention; Bureau of Narootios
894C.114
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and,
with referenoe to this Department's letter dated
June 16, 1933, informs him that George Israel Tribe,
NA RCOT i CS/83
a naturalized American who was sentenced to pay a fine
by the Distriot Court of Dairen, on April 4, 1932, for
traffioking 1n narootic drugs and whose case 1s now pend-
ing re-trial by that Court, was issued a new passport by
the Amerioan Consul General at Shanghai on August 1l,
1933. On that date Tribe stated that he had been living
in Shanghai sinoe November, 1932, and that he was employed
as an automobile salesman for Bills Motors, Federal Ino.,
U.S.A., agonts in Shangha1 for the Ford Motor Company.
exw
PD
FEINTWIKNP
9
FE
9/a/3s
17
10

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.94)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
89
9
SEE
81.l11 Bogdanovsly.Esther
FOR
despatch # 5892
4
NAR
FROM .....Harbin
(Hanson
..-) DATED
Oct.26.1933.
C
1791
NAME
1-1127
C
S
REGARDING:
Bogart,ZacharyP.;
8
Note book in possession of Boris Bosdanovsly,who was arrested
in connection with Beori-Talushime Warcotics ese, at Dairen,
contained names of a number of well kmown international smuge-
lers end also contained name of Z. Bogart of Los Angeles, brother
of Boris Bogdanovsi. r. Bogart has been active in aiding his
sister isther Bogdanovsky end her son Naum in securing visa to
enterthe United tates.
jr
84

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
April 12 1984.
In reply refer to
B 8940.114 Naroot1os/
894C.
Attention: Bureau of Narcotics
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments to
the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and, with
reference to this Department's letter, dated August 26,
NAR CO TIC
1933, enoloses herewith, for the information of the Com-
missioner of Narcotios, a copy of League of Nations docu-
ment No. 0.C.8. 173, dated Maroh 23, 1934, entitled "Ill1oit
Traffio in Benzoylin (Benzoylmorphine) at Dairen in 1930 -
CS/
Report on the final judgment rendered against the acoused,
8
5
communioated by the Japanese representative Maroh lst, 19s4-.
It will be noted from a comparison of the enolosed doeu-
ment with the report submitted by the Amerioan Consul at
Dairen in regard to the case (a copy of which was enclosed
with this Department's letter referred to above) that there
1s a discrepanoy in the date on which the decision of the
Supreme Court was rendered. It will also be noted that,
whereas the League document states that the guilty parties
were seatenced to varying lengths of imprisomment with hert

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.91)
Labor, the Consul reports that nine of the prisoners were
freed immedietely after judgment was pronounced as they
hed been detained for periods equivalent to their respeetive
sentences, and that the tenth prisoner was allowed a stay
of exeoution of his sentence.
Enclosure:
League of Nations dooument
No. 0.C.S. 173, March 23, 1934.
FEIBTWEHF
FE
9
4/11/34
A true
the signed origi-
nal.
121984

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
April 12 1934.
G
To the American Consul,
894C.
Dairen, Manchuria.
The Seoretary of State refors to the Consul's
despateh No. 47, dated July 27, 1933, in regard to the
4
sentences imposed by the Supreme Court et Port Arthur
NAR COT ICS/
on the ten individuals in the "Shirakawa Benzolin Case"
and enoloses herewith, for the Consul's information, a
oopy of League of Nations document No. O.C.S. 173, dated
Maroh 23, 1934, entitled "Illicit Traffic in Benzoylin
(Benzoylmorphine) at Dairen in 1930 - Report on the final
8
judgment rendered against the accused, communicated by
9
the Japanese Representative Maroh lst, 1934".
Enclosure:
League of Nations document
No. 0.C.S. 173.
111.
894C.114 Narcotics/81
CR
FE:ETW:EMF
4/11/34
Apr. 12 1934

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
16. .96
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manohuria, September 14, 1934.
SUBJECT:
Disoovery of Morphine Plant in Dairen
1—1066
GPO
CONFIDENTIAL
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
Fle
SIR
C
894C.114 NARCOTICS/
1-
AI
I have the honor to enclose a copy of a report
appearing in the August 27 1ssue of the MANCHURIA DAILY
NEWs describing the explosion of a morphine plant in
the suburbs of Dairen which resulted in the disoovery of
the plant by the police and the apprehension of those
oonneoted therewith.
Mitsuyoshi ToRII, the ringleader, was arrested at
the time of the erplosion. Kosaku KIHARA and Fuyuo
894.(0114)
NEGISHI, assistants who were badly burned, were taken
87
to the hospital where NEGISHI died. Kiyoshi INUIZaW,
an accomplice, committed suicide. ry Chin-yan, a
Chinese accomplice, escaped. Sanzo KUwATA was arrested
subsequently when investigation disolosed that he was
conneoted with the group of purohaser of raw materials.
Investigation disolosed that TORII and the four
Japanese named above started operating the plant in
June of this year. Equipment capable of a relatively
large production was discovered after the explosion.
OCT 11 1994
The

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.94)
● 8 •
The plant must have been quite aotive during its period
in operation of less than three months to have allowed
TORII and his group to alear 70 thousand yen. Other
reports confirm the statement in the enolosed clipping
that the raw materials were obtained from Tientsin and
most of the refined produot was exported to that oity.
The police suspect the group and project were receiving
financial support from some wealthy person whom they
presumably are now trying to looate.
Mitsuyoshi ToRII, it may be recalled, was named in
.4)6
my despatoh No. 12 of December 14, 1932, as one of those
arrested and convicted in oonnection with the illicit
morphine plant discovered at Kokusekisho (suburb of
Dairen) in February, 1932. Several weeks thereafter
ToRII was sentenced to two months imprisonment.
4D
parently he was subsequently arrested and convicted as
the newspaper report states that he was "supposed to
have been sent to Port Arthur penitentiary on August
22nd last for illicit morphine manufacture, but was
given special consideration in view of the approaching
birth of his ohild". It is ∞rtainly true in TORII's
case that the punishments imposed by the local courts
do not aot as a deterrant to illicit traffioking in
drugs and it is difficult to avoid the suspioion that
ToRII feels quite free to engage in the manufacture of
morphine on the understanding that he will oocasionally
bo

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.96)
be arrested and sentenced to a nominal term of imprison-
ment.
Respeotfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
w)
American Consul.
Enolosure:
Extract from MANCHURIA DAILY NEWS
of August 27, l934, entitled
"Two Injured in Explosion."
811.4
JCV:L
Original and wo copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai.
2

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
From the MANCHURIA DAILY NBWS of August 27, 1954.
TWO INJURED IN EXPLOSION
House Used for Manufacturing Illioit Morphine
is Complotely Demolished.
▲ terrifio explosion with the total loss of a two
storey house with two persons seriously in jured and burnt
ended the operations of Mitsuyoshi Torii, the habitual
illioit morphine manufacturer of the city, last Saturday
night at the Moiji orohard in Sishantun distriot in the
suburb of Dairen.
According to the police report the two injured,
kihara and Negishi, were at the time engaged in the manu-
faoture of morphine under orders from Torii who had spe-
cially gone from the city to supervise the work when the
explosion took place. It is said that at the time of the
unexpected explosion there was another Chinese accomplice,
Yu by name, but as soon as the fire beoame serious he is
said to have fled into the darkness from the police
authorities who were immediately notified.
The police report further states that the ring leader,
Torii, was supposed to have been sent to Port Arthur peni-
tentiary on August 22nd last for illioit morphine manu-
facture, but was given special consideration in view of
the approaching birth of his child. While taking ad-
vantage of the legal postponement of his penal servioe
he was again in the act of unlawful manufacture of mor-
phine. He is said to have cleared nearly 70,O00 during
his recent morphine manufacture which was for the most
part exported to Tientsin from where he received the raw
material.
The loss inourred during the explosion is estimated
at 15,000.
The two injured are still reported to be in a pre-
carious condition at the Karazawa hospital.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
FE
94
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manahuria, September 6, 1934.
121884
SUBJECT :
*Bogonine Smmggling Case - Dairen
1—1065 G PO
frsluctem
drafted to
COMPIDENTIAL
Salren o copres
setto iitea
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
fe
WASHINGTON.
0074
SIP
C
Copie tate
894C.
I have the honor to submit the following report on
AI
a matter related to the narcotics traffic which is known
locally as the "Eogonine Case".
4
In May, 193l, the Kwantung Government (presumably
NARCOT IC
the Opium Monopoly Bureau) sold 500 kilograms of eogonine
to the Sandai Seiyakusho (Sandai Pharmacy) of Dairen.
With a view to smuggling the drug into Japan to a cer-
tain Tamiya of Osaka, 250 kilograms were packed into
IS
eight rice bags and sent from the Sandai Pharmaoy's
8
8
warehouse to the home of Kisaburo Omase, 91 Mino-machi,
Dairen. The police, apparently having knowledge of
894℃ 114 har
the transaction between the Monopoly Bureau and the
Sandai Pharmacy and suspecting the buyer, were on the
lookout and seised the eight bags of eogonine while
enroute to Omasa's home.
The names of those arrested in conneotion with th
OCT 12
ease and the punishments demanded by Proourator Iseki
FILED
are as follows:
KAMANO
Q

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
● 2 •
KAMANO, Yosake1 (agO, 46)
3 months penal servitude
119 Kirishima-oho, Dairen
TANI, Sutokichi (age, 45)
2 months penal servitude
36 Chiyoda-cho, Dairen
Member of Sandai Pharmacy
KOMATSU, Shigeru (age, 46)
Fine of 100 yen
6 Oye-cho, Dairen
FUKUDA, Usaburo
Fine of 70 yen
Nishi-dori, Dairen
OMASA, KisaburO (age, 41)
Fine of 70 yen
91 Mino-machi, Dairen
Biji Sudzuki, an accomplioe, died before indiotment.
On July 27, 1954, (the date 1s underlined to invite
attention to the lapse of over three years between the
time the crime was committed and judgment pronounced),
Judge Kawabata of the Dairen Looal Court imposed the
following sentences: KAMANO, 2 months penal servitude;
TANI, 1 month penal servitude; KOMATSU, fine of 50 yen;
FUKUDA, fine of 30 yen; end OMASA, fine of 30 yen. As
the month and two months, respectively, which TANI and
KAMANo spent in prison awaiting trial were counted to-
ward service of their sentence, they were given their
freedom immediately judgment was pronounoed. Informa-
tion is not forthooming as to the fate of the eogonine
but it may be assumed that the 250 kilograms, at least,
was seized by the police and probably returned to the
Monopoly Bureau for resale.
The punishments demanded by the Procurator were
ridioulously light but the Judge saw fit to reduce them
to the point of absurdity. This observation is parti-
cularly pertinent in the case of KUMANO, TANI, and
KOMATSU who, it will be recalled, were also implicated
in the notorious Shirakawa "Benzolin Case" (despatch
No. 47/or July 87, 1955) and were actually under in-
dietment in conneotion with this case at the time of
their

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
• 3-
their attempt to smuggle eogonine into Japan.
As stated in previous despatches on the subjeot of
the narootic traffio, the long delay awaiting sentence
and the absurdly light punishments imposed by Dairen
courts cannot be expected to act as a deterrant to
orime of this kind and, combined with the infrequenoy
of arrests, invite suspicion that there is an illicit
traffio in narootio drugs carried on in Dairen of con-
siderable proportions.
Respectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
NOTE:
*Bogonine is a orystalline alkoloid obtained by
decomposition of cocaine and may be regarded
as the fundamental base of cocaine and several
other alkaloids (Webster's New International
Diotionary).
2
811.4
JOV:L
Original and two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.95)
October 11 1984
AttmtionL mxeau of Narooties.
894.C114 NARCOTiCS/89
The Sesretary of state presents his compliments
te the Momerable the Sesretary of the Treasury and
meleses herewith, in cuplicate, for the confidential
infermation of the Gomissioner of Narooties, a copy
of despateh No. 94, dated September 6, 1934, from the
Amerieam Gomsulate at Dairen, in regard to seisure
of a quantity of eegonine at Dairen and the subsequent
arrest and sonvietion of the persons implicated.
With reference to the statement contained in the
ultimate paragraph page 2 of the enolosed despatch,
astemtion is direeted to this Department's commmication
ated August 26, 1933 in regard to the re-trial of
mirakae and nine others in conneotion with the
allegal importation into Deirem of bemsolin.
A true copy of
the signed origi-
89
Oot. 11 1984
FE

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.90)
October 11 1954.
ZRIAL
AttentionL breau of Nareeties.
894C.
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Monorable the Secretary of the Treasury and
meloses herewith, in duplicate, for the confidential
infermation of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy
NA RCOT I CS / 90
of despateh No. 96, dated September 14, 1934, from
the American Consulate at Dairen, together with a copy
of its enelosure in regard to the discovery in Dairen
of a factory for the manufacture of morphine.
In this conneotion referenoe is made to this
Department's communication dated Jamuary 6, 1933, in
regard to an illicit morphine factory at Kokusekisho near
Dairen.
melesures!
Copy of despasch
OR√507
No. s, Septomber 14,
1934, with anel0sure.
Oct. 11 1934
FE
FE:SJF1EVE:88
9°
10/20
A
A true copy of

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.92)
October 12 1984.
Te the American Consul,
Dairen, Manehuria.
88
The Sesretary of State refers to despatoh No, 94,
894C.
dated September 6, 1934, and despatoh No. 96, dated
September 14, 1934, from the Amerioan Consul at Dairem,
114 NARCOT iCS/91
in regard to the elandestine manufacture of and illicit
traffie in narootio drugs in Dairen. The information
1s most useful and timely and the Consul's initiative
in the mtter is appreciated.
It will be a convenienee to the Department if, in
future, all despatches concerning narcotios are trans-
mitted in quintuplicate.
The Comsul is requested to transmit a copy of his
despateh No. 94 of September 6, 1934, to the Treasury
Attaché at Shanghai.
91
Hed
s0c0.114 Fareeties/ss
FP
FR:SJFIWB:SS
FE
10/10
A
Juuw
OCT 18

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.92)
Fi
108-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, October 31, 1934.
SUBJECT:
Sentenoe Given in Conneotion with
1—1066
GPO
Morphine Plant in Dairen.
Decemter 5 1984
2capre, sent
Dec sissu
THE HONORABLE
w
J.le
002
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
Copy taken
894C.11
SIR:
I have the honor to refer the Department to my des-
patch No. 96 of September 14, 1934, entitled, Discovery
4 NARCOT I CS/92
of Morphine Plant in Dairen. On October 26th, Judge
Takahashi of the Dairen Local Court imposed the following
punishments on those inplicated in the operation of the
morphine plant:
TORII, Mitsuyoshi
Penal Servitude
8 months
KIHARA, Kosaku
."
“
3
5
KUWATA, SanZo
Fine of
100 yen
NAKAMURA, Matashiro
n
8
80
LIU, Cha-tung
4
n
80
n
All of the acoused abandoned the right of appeal and sub-
mitted to the sentences.
NAKAMURA and LIU were not mentioned in my despatch
of September 14, 1934. NAKALURA was subsequently found
to have been connected with the group operating the mor-
phine plant and LIU was a Chinese employee of TORII.
DEC
FTLED
Reapefully yours,
7
John Carter Vinoent
American Consul.
811.4
JOV:L

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
一8-
Original and two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.94)
December B 19s4.
COO
CORVIDENTIAL
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seeretary of the Treasury and,
NARCOTiCS/
with reference to this Department's commnnication dated
October 11, l934, encloses herewith, 1n duplioate, for
the confidential information of the Commissioner of Nar-
ties, a copy of despatch No. l02, dated October 31,
los4, from the American Consulate at Dairen, in regard
6
to the sentences imposed upon certain persons in Deiren
implicated in the illicit manufacture of morphine.
Enclosure:
A true copy of
No. 102, 0mtober 31, 1954.
the mnd origt
from Dairam, in duplicate.
Deo. 5 19341
8/12/s4

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.94)
No. -1l1-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manohuria, December 19, 1934.
SUBJECT :
Activities of Curt Smith,
11006 GPO
CONFIDENTIAL
0
6
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
RECO
JAN1
JAN 1635
WASHINGTON.
fle
Wd
Nok
I have the honor to enolose for the Department's
information copy of my letter of December 7, 1934, to
Mr. Nicholson, Treasury Attache at Shanghai, describing
C
the Consulate's investigations into the activities of
S
711.11
Curt Smith, Narcotic Confidential List No. l88. There
6
Supet
4
are also enclosed Mr. Nicholson's first telegram which
(NG
initiated the investigation and a copy of his final
telegram explaining the reasons for Smith's visit and
shipments to Dairen. copies of my telegrams are not
enolosed as their contents is repeated and amplified
in the enolosed letter.
Curt Smith's visit in Dairen came to an end on
December 8th when he departed for Shanghai. the Con-
sulate has not obtained any further information con-
cerning his or his suspected confederates' aotivities.
Vladimir Kapustin, mentioned in my letter, is the
B
son of/Grogoire Kapustin, Narcotic Confidential List No.
844, now residing in Tientsin. The son is not free
FULED
from the suspicion of engaging in the same illicit
business

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
business as the father.
H. Iribuch, also mentioned in my letter, is under-
stood to be on the Geneva Narcotio Black List, and
suspioion is generally attached to his activities in
Manohuria.
Respeotfully yours,
M
John Carter Vincent
merican Consul.
Enclosures:
Copy of letter fron American Consulate, Dairen,
to Treasury Attache, Shanghai, dated December
7, 1934.
Copy of telegram from Treasury Attache, Shanghai,
to merican Consulate, Dairen, dated November
23, 1934.
Copy of telegram from Treasury Attache, Shanghai,
to American Consulate, Dairen, dated December
10, 1934.
811.4
2
JM
JCV:L
In triplicate.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tientsin.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
For the Department
serican Consulate, Dairen, Manahuria, Deoember 7, 1954.
CONFIDENTIAL
M. R. Michalson, squire,
U. S. rreasury Attaohe,
shenghai, China.
Dear Mr. Nicholson,
Although I have kopt you inicrnod by telegraph re-
garding Curt Smith's aotivities and associations, I be-
lieve you may be interested in a more detailed, chrono-
logioal statement of my invustigations.
In rosponse to your telegram of November 23 3 p.m.,
I imodiately got into touch with Mr. Young of the Na-
tional City Bank to find out whether he could assist me
in obtaining infonaation concerning the loan which
smith was to negotiate with a Japanese bank aocording to
your telegram. As reported in ay telegran of November
24 11 a.me, Mr. Young informed me that his Bank held an
overdwe bill of exohange for b230 drawn on Curt Smith by
Bagar Barlow, Maker-up and Packer of Manchester, kngland.
The bill had baen sent by the westminister Bank in London
to the Nederlandisoh Indisohe Handelsbank N.V. at Shang-
bai and by the latter bank to the Na+ional City Bank.
Originally due October 24th, the bill had been extended
to November 23rd. The National City Bank still holds
the bill of exohange as Smith has not paid 1t during his
stay here. The bill covers 2 cases containing 20,000
peakages of household dyes and 4 cases of black tinsel
string. The goods were sent from Manohester to Hamburg
by sdgar Barlow in bond and were shipped fro Hanburg by
Geasar Kook, Machf, on the s.s. HoNU whioh arrived in
Dairem on August l7th. Roy Buokler and Company insured
the shipment. The cases are still in the South Manohuria
Hailway Company's warehouse and +he National City Bank
holds the warehouse warrant.
I learned through the National City Bank that the
Yokohama Speole Bank also had a bill of exohange for about
£s00 drawm on Smith. Further details were not available
and

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
and subse yuently I have only been able to obtain +he in-
formation that mith has paiu the bill soon after his
arrival in Dairen.
From the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation I
reoeived the information reported in my telegram of Novem-
ber 26 12 noom. Although the statements in the telegram
were essentially correot, certain c∞rrections are neces-
sary on the basis of information obtained day before yes-
terday. There were four warehouse warran's instead of
three, the details of whioh are as followe: (1) warrant
No. l06 ars68l, covering 3 cases of artificial fruit
whioh arrived nugust 7th on the s.s. ALStLR, for whioh a
Hamburg bill of exohange was drawn by dolph Gleue on
Ourt Smith for Ro1chmarks 2.083; (2) warrant No. 189
a8844, covering 3 cases of mooden toys and 10 cases of
leather shoes wh1ch arrived Septamber 17th on the s.s.
IsoR, for whioh a London bill of exchange was dram by
Stares and wheeler on Curt Smith for h282; and (3)
Warrants Nos. 165 287795 and 173 287795▲, cover1ng 3
oases of artificial fruit, 5 cases spengles, and 4 cases
dyes which arrived september 9th on the s.s. BocHUM, and
for whioh a London bill of exohange was drawn by stares
and Wheeler on Curt Smith for 763.
The Hongkong and shanghai Banking Corporation in
shanghai held all the bills of exohange and the local
branch was to hand the warehouse warrants to Curt smith
only on instruotions fron Shangha1. November 29th
the looal branoh receivod ins+ruotions to hand Smith
the warehouse marrants desoribed under (2) and (3).
in the preceding paragraph. smith arrived November
30th and sent n. M. Diatlovitaky to the bank to take de-
livery of the warrants. as the Bank informed hin that
the warrants ust be handed to Curt Smith in person,
Smith oame in later and took them. On Deco ber 3rd,
Diatlovitaky who desoribes himself as a ?orwarding agent
and Comission Merohant (the Japuncse nane of his busi-
nes 1s Taitoku Yoko 大 德、洋行 ), removed the following
cargo from the warehouse: under shipment desoribed above
as (2), 3 cases of toys; and as (3) 1 oase dyes, 1 case
spangles, and 1 casc artificial fruit. rhe other cases,
in so far as I know, are stili in tho warehouse. It is
believed that Diatlovitaky removed the oases to his offioe
at

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
at 33 Yamagata-dor1 but what disposition has been made
of them subsequently, I am unable to learn.
Curt Smith, as I stated in my tolegram of December
6 1l a.m., arrived November 30. He registered at the
Yammto Hotel, Dairen. At first he planned to return
to shanghai on Dooember 5th but later ahanged the date
to December Sth (tomorrow) when he will, I understand,
sa1l on the DAI RiN MakU. l though he has had many
visitors at the Yamato whose names I have been unable to
iscover and has met numerous Russians and Germans in
looal restaurants, he is frequently at the Lairen office
of Brumo Haube, a German jeweler of rsingtau. A young
German named Wertzel is in charge of the looal office
whioh carries a stook of cheap jewelry, watches, novel-
ties, et cetera, and 1s located at 54 Yamagata-dori.
smith has mail despatohed from this place and receives
tolegrame there.It was here that I disoovered Smith in
convereation with a. M. sherell (misspelled in my telegram
"Sherrel"), a Hussian, former resident of Harbin where his
reputation wes none too good I am told, and now doing busi-
ness bere as a forwaruing agent. Incidentally, practi-
cally all Russian Jews in Dairen, who are not fur mer-
chants, are forwarding agents. webbens, manager of a
German restaurant oalled "Hansa" also oame in to see
smith while I was in Bruno Haube's office. I seriously
doubt that Webbens has any 1llioit dealings with Smith,
and the same applies to other Germans in Dairen, in-
oluding G. C. Sohrbeok, gent Riokaers line (German),
who have been seen wi th lhi. I am not so sure about
wortzel, although I an inulined to beliuve that ho
"doom't know what its all ajout". Howuver, Van
Bensohoten, the Vioe Consul, has observed him together
with Smith, Tribuoh, and an unknown Hussian Jew, in the
local Viotoria cafe. Joncerning sherell and Diatlovitaky,
1t is likely that if smith 1s here on 1llioit business,
they are ooncerned therein. On the other hand, 1t is with
Tribuoh, who arrived on Deoember 4th (young Vladimir Ka-
pustin and Mrs. Kapustin, wife of old man Kapustin were on
the same boat), that Smith seemes to have the olosest re-
lationship.
with rogard to the in uiry at the end of my telugram
of December 6 11 a.m., I want to explain the+ it was made
more with the idea of obtaining an answer for my omm in-
fomation,

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.95)
formation, rather than be cause of impatience to take
aotion looally. If in a oase such us this whioh appears
to have all the earmarks" of 1llioit traffio, the looal
polioe are not to be reyuested to not, I should like for
y om guidance to kmow why. Also in oases suoh as this,
I should very much like for you to follow up telegrams
with a letter giving me whatever background you oan and
also explaining what information 1s of value and what 1s
not. Yor instanoe, I do not know now whether the de-
tailed information conoerning the bills of exohange and
warehouse receipts whioh I telugraphed to you was already
in your possession or if not, wus of uny spucial value.
any further worthwhile information I can obtain oon-
oerning the case will be sunt t you by telegraph or post,
dopending on its char.otor.
sinoerely yours,
John Carter Vinoent
American consul.
3 copies to Dopartment
1 copy to Legation, Peiping
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
1 copy to Consulate General, Tientsin
.m

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
TRUE
READING
TELEGRAM
RECEIVED
November 23, 7 p.m., 1934
FROM
Consulate General
Shanchai
Gray code, decoded by JCv
AMERICAN
CONSUL
DAIREN
November 23 3 p.m. Confidential Following from
Nicholson "One Curt Smi th Narcotic Confidential List
No. 188 Manager of alleged machinery engineering company
of Shanghai supposed to leave for Dairen on s.s. DAIREN
MARU sailing Shanghai November 25 9 a.m. Purpose of
trip alleged to be to negotiate loan with Japanese bank
on security of legitimate cargo shipped from Burope to
Dairen on Motor schooner R. C. RIckMaRS sailing Hamburg
June 30th 1934 and DEIKE RICKMARS sailing Hamburg May
30th l934 consisting of glass and paper artificial fruits.
Desirable to discreetly ascertain if possible connections
of Smith in Dairen with whom he may be doing business,
amount of loan negotiated with bank and name of bank.
Telegraph immediately whether you believe you can obtain
above information without calling on police or otherwise
attracting undue attention" STcOR
CUNNINGHAM

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
TRUE READING
TELEGRAM
RECEIVED
December 10, 8 p.m., 1934.
FROM
Consulate General Shanghai
Gray Code, decoded by JCV
AMERICAN
CONSUL
DAIREN
December l0 4 p.m. Confidential
The information in
your December 6 1l a.m. is highly intelligent and im-
portant Referring to kast paragraph of your telegram*
police interference at present is undesirable. Ship-
monts made thus far are insignificant and were made for
sole purpose of studying Japanese Customs procedure,
warehousing regulations, port regulations, methods of
handling imported merohandise and kindred sub jects.
This has been done by this gang in every important
country in the world and is their regular method of
operation. we are reasonably sure there is no con-
traband in the present case and to call in police at
this stage might only oomplicate our activities in
Shanghai, New York and even kurope
CUNNINGHAM
*NoTs: Last paragraph of telegram read: "why is it
not feasible to have police examine cases
in warehouse?"

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.93)
In reply refer to
19 1935.
E 804C.114 Narcotics/94
JAD
COMVIDENTIAL
894C.114-NARCOTICS/95
Attention: Bureau of Narcotios
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Honorable the Seoretary of the Treasury and
encloses herewith, in duplicate, for the confidential
1nformtion of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy of
despetoh No. 11l, dated December 19, 1934, from the
Amerioan Consulate at Dairen, together with copies of its
enclosures, in regard to the activities of Curt Smith,
No. l88 on the Confidential List of persons suspeoted of
being engaged in the illioit traffio in narcotic drugs.
Enclosure:
No. 1ll, December 19, 1934,
from Dairen, with enclosures,
in duplicate.
A lrue copy of
the 
FRIHDSIENP
1/19/35
9

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.92)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
894C.
CONFIDENTIAL.
JA
35
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
C
F
4
RECEIV
Washington, D. C.
Hea
NARCOTICSY
5
17
Sir:
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller.
C
5
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a confidential communication, dated November 5,
1934, forwarded to the Buroau of Customs by Treasury
Attache Nicholson at Shanghai, in regard to narcotic
E.
or
factories in Dairen.
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
894c.114
Enclosure
FEB 91 935
FILED
3
a
G

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL.
AN
5
The Homorable
The Seeretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: r. tuart J. Fuller.
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a confidontial comunication, dated ovember 5,
1934, forwarded to the uroau of Customs by Treasury
Attach• Nicholson at shanghai. in re rd to narcotic
factorios 1: Dairon.
Rospectfully,
For the seeretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
helesures
JWB/JWB

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.88)
DEPARTMENT
COPY
ASURY DEPARTMENT
SHANGHAI, CHINA
BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
INVESTIGATIVE UNIT
TREASURY ATTACHE
CARE OF AMBRICAN CONBUL
November 5th, 1934.
Conpissioner of Custems.
: ivisioa of custeme ¿gsats,
strietly cosfidentiel.
ahimte. . .
Ro - Narootie Pactorios ip Datrege
515:
Chang Chien, our agent in Masekuria, recently sont a
mesenuger to Chefoo with a raport writtem an silk eoneealed in a thiek
frmmr's dre:s. The rupert hos besm forwnreed fron cheroo end is
tranal:ted as follews:-
"ru-hslen, Feagtien
October 2lat, 1934.
Is eccordanee with your imstructioms, 1 sent two agente to
Laires, Lmmediately after my arrival in South Manehuria, to investi-
cate iate the mareotic sitwetéon there. They are suag Hai-sk:
(  ) and ang Toh-yunm ( 王). Unfortun:toly, an: Toh-Yuam
fell late a trap of tritors and was subeequemtly diseevered and ar-
reated by Japasese police.1n Drirem en September zath. Nothing has
been heard fras hin zince. In the peet month suag Hai-sban aided
by friends in Teirm. hos berm workine very bard. Liter much difri-
culty, be has foume out the existence of five crug factoriee in the
C:ty of Dairem. The exact locstion and the mn vos of the proprietors
o! tase Smetoriee ase slven a tue Colloxin:-
(1, Locatiom  fectery - lous o. 18, Tambaeho, ( ( J) Dairén.
Mame of feetary - akamctm Hizu (  u.)
Name of propriotor- Inoue Buyu (开)
sammfactmrer of heroia. Monthl, prosuction about lo piculs.
(2) Lecation of festery - Mease No. 38 Caiyotacho. (f toos) Dairen.
Ma:x of preprdetes - Oda a1 joh .1. )
Memufectarer ef merphime and beroim - oathly procuction
15 - 16 pioule.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.83)
--
Location of factory - ilouse o. 135, etsuotocho ()  
ron.
Kane o? proprietor - o: a Heul (本 四久 言2)
I nuf cturer of or hin and n roin. Hothly roduction
: bout 1s iculs.
ountion of factory - house no.14, Tis ins   街, iren,
re over amura ron cra 村 2).
iann act rer of o hine. o. th y. ro uctien l to lo iculs.
1.; 1cu1 -quul 1.3 1.3 1bs.
oc tion of ractory - House o.. o ( )
(い
aitomeiiru.rn(沙口名项)
ane of proprietor - Koday ghi ( ). 
anu veturur of mor nine. ontily : ro uction -9 piculs.
3 heve not n ard anything definite yot fion other o ents we cent
ing, t rthur and onkden, but e tolirve we sheli hour from
zon. ihe chiuf ui ficulty ith w i: the l ck of nens for
xendence. vury time e have to lep nd u on a ei.l lessangers.
ling cing throu u post orfice here 1e clcel ernsored so e
tot us the service. o ree on enee ith ony lace In whin is
rs irricult. 1 un endine this first roiort by sp cisl
er wiun the nope thit it il  a  ll ri ht. I S.liave
areci te tnis difriculty n l youll te tient with
or tu. i ish to cosure you th t we   our beet here for
 with you th t this i: the moet efrect ve y of i hting our
our exprrionce so r y  to nll e th t the il, iout
in mnr ota  tue thin t . nese are mo  urraia to te
I a.de. not sicuiur itn ncir unlit ry nffniro
i seh nes ns they ure with nir:ctio e linv. Ho cver, ere
throupn vuricue ch l: un: beii / tn t i  course of time,
be ble toive you a nost ti   the
 of norcotics from si n intc oter  um rius. o fnr e kno
 lin into orth China is done nlacst in op:n, hile into
in and Y ngtze Valiey. un bec te ure usec as n rule.
i,  e  to recuest y to rant the montnly allo unce to
: soon as you cen, for we necd monoy to carry on.
Yours ithfully,
( d) hang hien"
 spe :tfully.
.RaA
ury ttache

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.86)
(3) Losatiom of fectery - Mouse No. 185, Batauotocho (4)  of. Dairam.
Neme of preprietor - Houa Bisal (本吹 iz)
Mamufneturer of morphinn and beroin. Monthly produetiom
about 15 piculs.
(4) Locatiom of factory - Mouse no. 14. Taisanssi 7    ), airen,
Ur staire) wer Makemre Irom Korks (42 ).
Hemmfacturer a& morphime. Moathly production 12 to 13 piculs.
(4 plonl equal 133 1/s Ibe.)
(5) Loeatem  feeteey - Mous No. 1, eni-ho ( ))  nknko
Daitommal Yoikaou, Lairea (沙(g=z€ Xa美)
mprogriete-Kedagashi (小林)
Mamafactarer of morphine. Mentaly prodmetios 6-9 piculs.
we heve mot beard asything defizite yet frem other agests wo sent
to ataag, art Arthur and ueahdem, but we believe we ahall hear fron
them soon. The ehiat diffioulty sith e is the Lack et means for
cerrespoadence. vary time we have te depend upon speeial messeagers.
Iverything seing through pest erfiee here la ekbeely censered so we
could mot use the servies. Cerreapondemse sith may place in Chine is
eves mare dirrieplt. I am seading tmis firet repert by n special
messenger with the hope that it will recch you all right. I believe
you sill appreelute this difrioulty and hope you & 11 be petieat with
our roper ts. I wich to aasure yoe thes we aro doing our best here for
we sgree with you thet this ds the meat affective xuy of fiakting our
enunies.
In our erperience m fer we have com to reali e thst the illicit
traffie in marootlce is the thing the Japamese are most afruid to be
kmoin cutaide. Tßey are met  partieular with their military affairs
and other sekemes as they are with marootic mmu sliss. However, e are
werkins tarough varlons ebaanels and bell vu thnt in due course of time,
we ahall be able to give you a mmet antiafantory report rogoriing the
amaggling of mareetics frem Dairem iate ether c untries. 3o far we know
that ammggling iate North Chime is dame almost ia open, while into
South chino and Yangtae Valley. cum beats are used as a rule.
Firelly, I wih to request you to remit the monthly allosanoe to
Chefoo as soon as you cas, for we need momay to earry on.
Youre faithfully.
(Sgd) Chang him
Hospectfully,
M. R.Tcustion
MRN: B.J.
Treasury Xttache

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
Imatructin
DEPARTMENT STATE
drafted to Hrran.
WASHINGTON
1935 JUN11 23
10111750
JUN7- 35
CONFIDENTIAL.
FARFATRRAFIAIRS
JUN.8-235
The Honorable
File
CDpanment ou Sid'e
The Secretary of State,
copy un FE
Washinton, D. C.
)
Sir:
Attea.tion: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
40
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a letter, dated May 25, 1935, fron the ureau of
Customs, addressed to the Conmissioner of Narcotics,
together with copies of its enclosure, a report, dated
O
April 30, 1935, fron Treasury Attace Micholson at
O
Shanghai, in regard to certein Jree: steanships which
C
11
have visited Dairen oetween January 1 end April 1,
S
1935, and to certuin persons suspected of en a in in
6
7
the illicit traffic in narcotic drus.
811111
You will note that mention is made of one M.
Podliatschuk, who was the subject of recent correspondence
between our respective Depurt ents, your file Ho. S94c.
JUN 90 935
114 Narcotics/99.
FILED
ao "Podliaschat"
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
G
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosures

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
WASHINGTON
My 25, 1935
The Commissioner of Narcotics,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
There is inclosed for your informtion a copy of
 report from the Treasury Attache, Shanghai, Ch. ina, dated
April 30, 1935, in regard to certain Greek teamships which
have visited Dairen between January 1 and April 1, 1935.
By direction of the Commissioner:
Respectfully,
(Signed)
EDSON J. SHAMHART
Chief, Division of Enforcement.
Inclosur• No. 11398
5
copy/fas

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
SHANGHAI, CHINA
April 30th, 1935.
Commissioner of Customs,
Division of Customs Agents,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Dairen Russian Agent reports as follows on April 25th, 1935:
"The following Greek steamers have visited Dairen, between
January lst and April lst, 1935:
S. S. "Mount Olympus"
5,166 tons January 25, 1935
S. S. "Ebogeles Chindoles"
5,300 tons
February 8th, 1935
S. S. "Marietta Nomikes"
5,700 tons
February 25th, 1935
S. S. "George M. Embiricos"
5,700 tons
March
15th, 1935
S. S. "Marietta Nomikes"(2nd time)
March
22nd, 1935
S. S. "Kassen"
5,600 ton8 March
28th, 1935
About 30 more ships are expected during this year.
All the above mentioned ships were mostly chartered by the USSR
Government to bring certain military cargo from the Black Sea to
Vlaaivostek. On their way back to Greece, or Black Sea Russian
ports, they will call at various ports to discharge sundry cargo,
Christo E. Paizis and E. N. and G. N. Vacakis, were stevedoring
for the above mentioned steamers, and it is stated, among the
local Greeks, that large quantities of "white cargo" were also
shipped to Europe, of course, with the full knowledge of the
Captains and the crews, who are reported to be born smugglers
either in arms, or in narcotics. It is also reported that some
orders for high grade Persian opium has been placed with the
members of the crew and will be brought to Dairen on the return
cruise.
M. Podliatachuk, a smuggler, who was already mentioned in my re-
ports, arrived here (Deiren) on l9th inst. and is now staying at
"Hotal Asia", Hoshigaure, Dairen.
Ovaneeian, Goldberg & Co. (they have offices in Harbin and
Shanghei and were already mentioned in my reports) are planning
to open an import and export office in Dairen. Their me in pur-
pose is to organize the shipment of "white cargo" from Dairen
to Shanghai. The wholesale price per kilogram at present in
Deiren is Yen 760, but in Shanghai, $850.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
K. Mvridis another Greek smuggler, arrived here (Dairen) from
Tientsin on l6th inst. and is staying now at "lux Hotel",
Dairen.
C. Tziklidis, another suspetious Greek arrived in Dairen from
Harbid on 17th inst. and is staying at the "Verselles".
G. Panaidis, who was already mentior.ed in my reports, left for
Chofoo on the l8th inst.
S. Brinberg (Breenberg), alias "Senka Kosoi" arrived in
Dairen from Shanghai on 17th inst. and is now ataying at
"Lux Hotel".
(S. Brinberg is a friend of A. Rosenbaum, was
connected with Brandatatter's gang some time
ago. he was several times mentioned in my
reports and his photograph has been forwarded
by me.")
Respectfully,
(Signed)
M. R. NICHOLSON,
Treasury Attache
MRN:PEJ
copy/fas

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.93)
F5
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
JUN
RECEIV
EPARENT
4
935 N 10
FARYAFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL.
Dopartment of State
The Honorable
C
cokyuFc
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a letter, dated May 25, 1935, from the Bureau of
Customs, together with copies of its enclosure, a re-
port, dated April 29, 1935, from Treasury attache
Nicholson at Shanghai, in regard to drug manufacture
and distribution in Dairen.
6
844c114
8
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
en
JUN 11 1935
c
FILED
Assistant Secretary
C
Enclosures
F

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
BUREAU OF CUSTOMS
WASH INGTC N
May 25, 1935
The Commissioner of Narcotics,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
There is inclosed for your information a copy of
a report from the Treasury Attache, Shanghai, China, dated
April 29, 1935, in regard to drug manufacture and distribu-
tion in Dairen.
By direction of the Commissioner:
Respectfully,
(Signed)
EDSON J. SHAMHART
Chief, Division of nforcement.
Inclosur• No. 11396
copy/fas

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
SH.NGHAI, CHINA
PREASURY DEPARTMENT
TREASURY ATTACHE
Commissioner of Cus toms,
Division of Customs Agents,
Washington, D. C.
RE: DRUG MANUFACTU E AND DISTRIBUTION IN DAIREN
Sir:
The following report, dated April 16th, 1935, has been re-
ceived from our Manchurian agent:-
"Dairen, owing to its location as the gateway to Manchuria
and its close connection with the North China Province
since it became Japanese leased territory, has become the
natural center of drug manufacture and distribution.
Durin: the pericd prior to 1926 opium was comnonly used by
the officials and higher classes of people in Manchuria;
but to eht poor and those who could not afford to use
opium habitually, morphine was introduced by the Hapanese
as a cheap and convenient substitute. In a short space of
five years morphine became very popular among the labor-
ing class in Manchuria. From 1928 to 1931, the period dur-
ing which Manchuria discontinued its independence from
Nanking, opium suppression was strictly enforced and the
evil of morphine, heroin and other narcotics soon took
the place of opium. As these drugs could be eas ily smug-
gled and were handled by the Japanese, who enjoyed con-
sular judicial rights and could not be reached by the
Chinese Law, the use of morphine and heroin became wide-
spread among people in all walks of life.
Before the Manchurian incident in 193l all transactions in
narcotic drugs were made in secret, but after that event,
the mamufacture of and traffic in drugs have been conducted
openly. However, all drug factories, in order to avoid
foreign attention, usually use signboards indicating legit-
imate firms, such as medicine and chemical works. For the
sake of appearances, medicines of various descriptions are
axhibited in these places, but in reality they are narcotic
factories. All such camourlaged factories employ Japanese

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
and Korean laborers, and in some cases Chinese are also employed
Most of these fectories are situated in the basements of build-
ings well constructed for the purpose. In order to avoid the
danger of discovery customers who wish to nake purchases of nar-
coties from these factories must have proper local introduction.
In the past morphine and heroin were the two leading products of
the factori. Recently a new narcotic drug by the name of
Koat-Chung-Koai, which means quick and effective, has been manu-
fadtured on a large scale. This new narcotic is said to satisfy
the cravings of ite user quickly and effectively by the mere
rubbing of the drug in the hands. This is the most harmful drug
so far known.
Most faotories handle their producte at wholesale themse. ves.
They are distributed to the public through the retail shope. In
Manchuria all the Government Opium Smoking Dens and houses of
prostitution act as retail shops for narcotics. Opium smoking
dens licansed and protected by the government are supposed to
provide only opium amoking to the registered addicts, but narcotics
are also sold by these dens to addicts whose financial condition
will not permit them to cont inue the use of opium, which is more
expensive and less harmful.
Before the Mnchurian incident, Dairen was the chief source of
supply of narcotics to various parts of Manchuria, but subsequently
narcotic factories have been establiahed in ukden and Antung
which soon became the centers of supplies to Ta-Shih-Chiao,
Kai-Ping, Hai-cheng, Chwang-o, Ta-ku-Shan, and other cities and
towns along the South Vanchurian Railway.
Narcotics amuggled into T1entsin, Shanghai, Chefoo, Tsingtao,
Lungkow, eihaiwei, and Shih-tao come mostly from the Dairen factor-
1e. We have found that in the port of Chefoo alone every Japenese
steamer arriving from Dairen carries at least seventy pounds of
narcotics each trip, and the amount periodically smuggled into
Tientsin, Shanghai and Taingtao by Japanese steamers is even more.
Figuring one steamer a week from Dairen to each of these ports, it
is estimated that the total amount of narcot ics smuggled in from
Dairen would be no less than 500 pounds a wee:. This is considered
a conservative estima te for the illicit importation into China from
Dairen alone. It is believed a considerabie amount of these drugs
go to the United States, South America and Europe by way of Osaka
and also by means of cargo bats which call at Dairen for soya
beans and other Manchurian products. e are working on this phase
of the traffic but find investigations difficult owing to the co-
operation botween foreigners, mostly Greeks, and the Japanese.
The wholesale price of heroin in Dairen is around ¥23 per oz. and
¥380 per lb. while the retail price in other ports is more than

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
50 per oz. and about ¥800 per lb.
In the opium smoking dens in Manchuria heroin is sold at l0d
per small package. One ounce of heroin is easily pecked into
400 to 500 packages and there is large profit in this for the
retailers.
The wholosale price of morphine in Dairen is ¥25 per oz. and
¥400 per lb. In other ports the retail price is about ¥40
per oz. and ¥650 per 1b. Each ounce is divided into 400 to
500 units; each unit is one injection, and each injection
costs 10 sen.
The manufacture of morphine and heroin in Dairen, Mukden and
Antung is done in secret only to avoid the public opinion of
the world. The Japanese police have never interfered with the
manufacture, except in cases where it becomes absolutel y nec-
essary to save their face. Furthermore, many Japanese officers
in the Manchoukou Government are mostly ronin (gangsters) who
were narcotic smugglers before the anchurian incident and
naturally it is not to their interests to interfere with the
manufacture of narcotics.
With regard to the transportation and trade in narcotics, the
Japanese are not only protected but helped and encouraged by
their authorities, but the use of narcot ic drugs by Japanese
is strictly forbidden and effectively prevented by their govern-
ment. Chinese only are allowed to use narcotics openly.
The smuggling of narcotics is done mos tly through the mediun
of Japanese crews of various steamship lines and important
officers of the twenty-nine steamers belonging to the Chin Kee
S. S. Co. which are Japanese, and regular smugglers of narcotics
into China. Owing to the fact that the smgglers are Japanese,
the Chinese authorities have no jurisdiction over them as they
are protected by their own consuls. Besides these steamahips
there are junks that sail between Shantung and Korean ports.
These junks usually call at places where there is no custom house
and nobody to in terfere with their smuggling.
Raspectfully,
(Signed)
M. R. NICHOLSON,
MRN:PEJ
Treasury Attache
copy/fas

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
4TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENTSTATE
WASHINGTON
1935 JUN 10 PY 12 46
DIVEOF
OMMUNIONS
ANDADS
CONFIDENT IAL.
FARFRNAFFAIRS
The Honorable
C.
The Secretary of State,
4C
Copy n FE
Washington, . C.
S1r:
Attention: Mr. H. Charles Spruks.
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a letter, dated .pril 16, 1935, from Treasury At-
tache Nicholson at Shanhai, addressed to the Commis-
sioner of Customs, in regard to a drug factory discover-
ed in Dairen.
Respectfully,
6
6
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
JUN 11 1935
Assistant Secretary.
FILED
Enclosurep
F

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
TBEASURY DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATESHINGTON
1935 SEP 30 AM 10 36
SEP 28 1935
DIVISIN OF
COMMUNICATIONS
CONFIDENTIAL.
AND RECORDS
The Honorable
894C.114 NARCOTiCS/100
The Secretary of State,
CofyuF
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller.
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies
of a report, dated September 2, 1935, from Treasury
Attache Nicholson at Shanghai, in regard to narcotic
factories in Dairen.
Respectfully,
114har
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
894c.
Ltephenblibbone
Assistant Secretary.
0CT1. 935
FILED
Enclosures
M

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.90)
SEP 2 8 1935
The Sesrstary of State,
Weshimgton, D. C.
s.x1
Atte: ir. Start . Paller
I have the honer to tranmmit herewith two copies
of a report, dated September 2, 1935, from Treasury
Attacke Nicholson at Shanghai, in regard to nareotie
faetories in Dairen.
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
JWB/JWB

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARIMENI
COPY
NTMENT
USTOMS
SHANGHAI. CHINA
IVE UNIT
YATTACHE
ERICAN CONSUL
Sop tamber 2m, 1936
Commissioner of customs,
Division of Custom genta,
hingn,..
Re - Nercotic  ctories 1n iciren.
sir:
Accordine to inform tion recel ved upust  lst, 135, fran
our agent in lairen, he h e loc ted four new n rcotic fictories in th t
City. These four, lante are all run by J p nese under protection of
local police authorities. Te p v ucts of these factories are dis-
tributed throuh v rioue ret lere in iren nd ther unchurin nd
North China ports. The names of their proprietors und locntions of
these factories are s follows:-
1. Im ah shi ( F) , 1: op rating  heroin fotory
under the nane of Takahashi rug institute (
at Kametoliiron.
2.atsuda (), is op reting drug fotory msnufnctur-
in morphin and horoin under the mame of iteuda
Rosteurant (. D  t house No. 22. 1-kang,
T-lustreetairon.
3. Tami(
iF oper ting a heroin r.ctory um er
the name of Tani ln.lor ne ut itters o. () 1ft
nt ai-cnien onintzo(t   7iren.
4.
certain Japancse is operating , h roin r otory uncer the
.re f un oi .(=) 
t hou No.1, n.noounsshu-ko
(申，r.
espectfully,
MRM: IMJ
Treaeury ttach

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.95)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON
FILF
00
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
8940.114 NARC0T1CS/101
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller
I have the honor to transmit herewith copiee of four
reports, two dated September 5, 1935, end the others dated
September 6 and 7, 19:5, respectively, in regard to the
following subjects:
"Leading Opium Shops in Harbin, Antung and Dairen"
894二114)。
"Secret Drug Factories in the Suburbs of Deiren"
"Opium Retail Shops in Changchun"
"A Survey of the Opiun Situation in Teunyi"
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of the Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
Enclosures
W
OCT 113
FILED

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT
COPY
EPARTMENT
SHANGHAI, CHINA
CUSTOMS
ATIVE UNIT
BURY ATTACHÉ
September 5th, 1935.
AMERICAN CONBUL
commiesion or of Oustoms,
nivisiem of Customs gents,
Fashington, D. C.
LEADINC OPTUN SHOPS IN WARBIN. ANTUNG AND DAIREN.
sir:
The following are the load ng opium shope in Harbin:-
HAE
LOC TICE
Sung KTang 1.ou
(松江楼)
Tao-hwa Hang
(桃花巷)
Tung Hai Lou
(东海楼)
1an(房胡 同)
Tung-on ou
(永安楼)
fao-li in
chet。(道程新成)大街)
Chum-yin Lou
(群美楼)
Tao-hws lang
Ewang-teh Lou
Hsun-hwa t.
(纯化街)
Chin-yang Lou
陽楼
Tao-wai Chin-
Yang t.
(進外景陽街)
Foo-tai Lou
(福泰 楼)
Tao-wai Chen-
(道外承德街)
teh t.
(同 春楼)
Tung-chun Lou
Tao-wai ué
u(道中六道街)
Wan-Chang-hong
(萬昌盛)
Tao-wai ei an
(道外北之道街)
no t.
Ta Yuan Lou
(大观楼)
ao-wai nan n
(道外南三通街)
no t.
(景 星楼)
KoFunghoad()
Chin-3in Lou
(一品香)
Yih-ping-hsiang
no-11 hun -kuo
hin-tno t.(道裡中国九道街)
LADING OPTU HOS IN TO
Menehu Reta1l l:op
(滿洲零索所)
Chi-tao-ao
(七道讲)
Fu-Yung L.ou
(美蓉楼
Esien-chien
to(前街
rumg-chow Ratai) op (濂洲所)
Lu-tuo-ao
Yab- lang 1.ou
(鸭江楼)
C1-teo- no
化道满
LE OPI EOPS I DATREN
Tien-yih Lou
(天一楼)
ino-S4-uan
(小西阅)
(大有接)
(
Ta-yui lou
Kwang-tsh lou
(质德接)
Sico-pei usn
(小北闵
Tung-Shen Lou
(策性楼)
1-erh80
待兒講
Chua-Lun Lou
(群润楼)
Chich-li
Toh-lun Lou
(德潤 楼)
2

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.82)
-2-
Tuam
Chish-l1
程
LO
68
Low
”
Si-Keng
尚
im-Kes Lom
n
foe-shun Lou
Pao-fung Len
”
4
Tumohsieng Lou
楼
7
n
(The mames of other big opiwm shops in siren have been reported
previonsly.
Most of these big opáum shops ra retuiling und moking places.
Seme of them provice es many as one hundr d peds for pub ic patronege of
epium mskers. ll of those shops are dealing in nareotic drugs also, such
as msphine, heroin, and nareotio mixtures. The distribution of nareoties
is comsidered iliegal but it is done in thome shons slmost ovenly for they
have the understanding and protection o" Japenese police and detectivss.
The Japaneme drug manufacturere depend upon th ss opium retail shops to
oonsume their produets.
espectfully,
M. R. Ticholson
Treasuryttache.
MREIPEJ

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
COPY
EPARTMENT
CUSTOMS
SHANGHAI, CHINA
RY ATTACHÉ
AMERICAN CONBUL
September 5th, 1955.
commissioner of Customs,
Division of Customs gents,
Washington, D. C.
SECRET DRUG FAOTORI S IN TH" SUBURBS OF DAIPEN.
sir:
According to information just received from Dairen, our agent
has diseevered three morphine snd heroin factori s operated by Japanese
drampists im the suburbs of Dairen. These three factories are all con-
viemtly situated in the mountain caves off Lau-hu-tan village (老/t (t ),
met far from the sea beach.
The eperators of these drug faetortes are Kajida (t ),
mjigatamhi (  ), and Watanabe (没逢), emch running  factory in
the hills.
All these three factories hcve distributing offices at anbutou
(鉴  通 ) in Dairen. ach factory is producing around l20 ounces of
herein a day. Most of their products sre sold to Tsingteo, Lungkow,
Chefee and Tientsin. Part of their products are sold abroad. Fvery week
a shipment of 500 ounces/usually taken to North China ports per S.S. KYoDo
MARU ( 九) by Japenese and Korean mmugglers.
The wholesale price for "A" quality of heroin is 3a.00 per ounce,
for "" quality 80.00 per ounce, snd for "C" quality ¥25.00 per ounce. Re-
tail price 1s ebout 40g (Yen) per "fen" ( 分) ) 1/100 tael).
Besides these three factories, the Paiyodo Pharmacy (太片学为杯),
situated at Chieh-wai Chien-Chin Tze ( 行   #子 ), is also manufas-
twring and selling narcoties. This factory is operated by a Chinese oslled
Roia Jih-seng ( A ) and a certain Japanese. The products of this shop
are distributed to Tsingtao by a gang of Japanese smugglers.
Respectfully,
M. R. Hicholson
Treasury Attache.
ME:PEJ

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT
COPY
RTMENT
USTOMS
SHANGHAI, CHINA
IVE UNIT
Y ATTACHÉ
CRICAN CONSUL
Septembor 6th, 1995.
Commissiomer of Customs,
Divimion of Customs gents,
Washington, D. C.
OPIUM RETAII SHOPS IN OHANGCHUN.
sir:
The fellowing table shows receipts from sale of opium during the
first half of 1985:-
Januery
$122,548.66
February
115,890.88
March
124,075.20
pr11
122,864.51
May
150,166.51
June
129,640.44
$745,184.00
The above figures are the reoeipts of forty opium retailing and
moking shops in the eity of Changehun (oxoluding tho Japanese Coneession)
from sale of opium from Jamuery lst to June 30th, 1936. These figures do
not inoiude wholemale traffic.
In order to encourage the trsde in onium, the opium Monopoly
Bureau of Manehukuo has recently reduced the required amount of deposit
for an opium retailing and smoking shop from 40c.00 to $100.00. For this
reason, the number of opium retail shops in different interior "hsien" dis-
triets inoreased rapidly nd the mumber of addicts increase proportimnatoly.
Respectfully,
M. R.HiChstion
Tre sury ttache.
MRN: PEJ

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT
COPY
RTMENT
USTOMS
SHANGHAI, CHINA
YATTACHÉ
September 7th,1985.
MERICAN CONSUL
Commimsiemer of Customs,
Divisien of Customs gents,
#esmington, D. C.
Y  N N T
sir:
Ti (  ). a leadin opium pro ueing and distribution
cemter of weishew, is situsted in th northern seetion of the province
 she mmim highway lesding to Ssechuen. This eity is situsted on e river
at the bese of the mounta!ns, with ukiang ( 鸟 12: in the south and
kikiems (  ;2 ) in tho north, is considered an important commeroiel
eity as well as a wilitary stronghold. ny wer lord holding this city is
able to smereime his control ever the capitel of kweiehow and the seuthorn
part of sseohmen. In the past this cicy has pleyed an important role in
the politics of the Southwest. Both Ceneral chow Li-Chen () 西 t))
m General xmo wang-heiang ( 毛 光 判) owed their suooeasful campaigns
in weiehow and sechuen to the geographieal advan' ge of this city and
alse te a great extent to the rich sonroe of revanuo from opium of this
distriet.
In addition to the opium revanues, this city, boing the main
emmseiel tremsit routn between weichow and zeotnen, is lso the souree
ef mmay ether itoms of revenue for  vsichow. .ecordin to overnment sta-
tisties, Toumgi eonetitutes 36.52 o" to, total covrnment revemues to the
provinoe or Mmeiehew. wing to th Conm ist troublss, Tounyi has in the
past year besome pevorty stricen  it conditions a e much diffarent
from farmer timos. ith the presonce o: t on troops, the revemue of
opium hes beon treneferred from the old regime to th hnde of Ceneral
Chiang Kai-hek's tax eollectors.
The mount o opium rovomue collocted in this distriet by the
army of Generel Meo ang-hsiang three yeore ego was spproximately
1,200,000.00 e year and this 1norensed to more than 1,300,000 lest yoar
wmder the regime of Goneral ow e-tan (候 2擔).
The following fi ures may elp to mhow the oxtent of the opium
memase in this distriot:
Opium ovonnes collegted in munyi:
Year
Anount of Revenue
1951
$1,100,000.00

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.90)
-2-
Amt ef Revonne
1988
$1,190,000.00
1908
1,280,000.00
1906
1,809,000.00
During the years l9sl-l9s2, epium revenues in this distriet
eallested by Ceneral Chiang Taai-tsin (蒋 车 t ), Conmonder ofthe
Pirst mivisien of the wenty-firth mmy. These revemues went to
meal me Kwang-hsiang, head or the weichow rmy. ur ng he period
asse, Generel How Tse-tan, Commander or the Third Divivion of the
milieh (I -), then Cheirman of the weichow rovinoial Government.
Amount ef Opium Produoed in Tsunyi District.
Year
T8I
2,500,000 taels
1952
2,610,000
1983
2,800,000
1954
2,950,000
1935
2,700,000
Mete: - The slight deorease in 1955 wes due to Com unist trou les uround
this distriet. mounts represent opium season and not colender yenr.
Kinda of Opium Taxes and urtaxes Enforoed in
the District of Tmunyi.
Poppy Tex
5.00 per mow
Weighing Tex
.20
100 tels
Revenue Stemps
1.00
Highway Surtax
.10
Publio Safety Surtax
.15
2
Defence Gurtax
.15
2n
Edueation Surtax
.20
r
-4
Bandit Suppressin urtex
.50
The mumber of opium retail shops in sumyi district is 169, of
this number
22 shops have a capito1 of 100,000.00 or more onch
52
:7
30,000.00
4
n
1,000.00 to 10,000.00 orch, nd
40 others are cepital1zed t l0ss then 1,000.00 sach.
There are about 1,500 retail shope and smoking dens in the various villages
and tome in this district. Tho number of opium  icts is no less than
175,000, including about 27 of womon nd chi:dren.
The above statistics were seoured y our  nt from severel

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.91)
The manufesturing of marsotie drugs in Breiehew was origi-
t of prefit was made in this business.
Subsequently, General Yui Kue-Chai (前 国 材 ) of Anghan
( 安 川夏 ). Ganeral oho Ming-Chi (牵 鸣 焉堂) or Taingyuan (德),
me Mr. Wang Feng-Min ( 王 & B), unole of General Wang Chia-lieh of
respsetive losalities.
Our agent is now making a detailed study of the drug manufae-
turing situation in these places and hones to submit the facts in the near
future.
Respeotfully,
M. R. Hicholson
Treasury Attache.
NRW!PRJ

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
RLOLYD
WASHINGTONDEPARTMENTIATE
1935 NOV ? AM 9 28
RIVISION OF
NovL
CONFIDENTIAL.
COMMUN CATIONS
AND RECORDS
Capyn.FE
894C.114 NARCOT iCS/102
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
Attention: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller.
I have the honor to transmit herewith two copies of
a report, dated Septemper 23, 1935, from Treasury Attache
Nicholson at Shanghai, furnishing a list of the names and
addresses of certain suspected narcotic smulers who were
in Dairen on September 15, 1935.
Respectfully,
For the Secretary of ti.e Treasury:
Assistant Secretary.
NOV - 5 035
FILED
Enclosures
1 Carbo destioged
M

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.96)
Shanghai, September 23, 1935.
Dairen Agent Report.
I am forwarding herewith the liat of names and add-
rosses of the smugglers and suspects, who were in )airen on Sept.
15th, 1935. (Most of them were already ment1oned in my reports)
E. O. GURIIN
7 Higami-koen-cho.
G. I. GOROYA!
Yamagato-dori.
I. GOLDBRACH
yana-dori.
I.. RAIGORODETZ.Y
lotel "Eldorado", Hosnigaura.
L. KOVNER
Yamagato Juiluing.
2. M. DINABURG
55 Yamagato-dori.
VLAD. I. KAPUSTIN
55 Yamagato-dori.
S. N. BIRITCH
Restaurant 'Uriental", Naniva-cho.
A. M. DIATLOVITZKY
55 Yamagato-dori.
J. D. LETCHITZKY
l'ereuchi-dori.
J. ESLER
55 Yamagato-dori.
.A. KARDYSH
54 Yamagato-dori.
ALFRED ED. RUTHE
54 Yamagato-dori.
A. I. GRANEVSKY
51 Oyama-dori.
S. N. GROSSMAN
157 Naniva-cho.
MIRONOFF
157 Naniva-cho.
K. KISTOTERIANTZ
201 Koffuta1.
H. TRIBUCH
6 Bungalow, Hoshigaura.
IGOLKOVSKY
一
All three are partners and owners of so-
一
called "North-Manchuria Transport Co."
P. P. SHPRAUS
一
Dairen. They are connected with Hatzo-
一
poulos, Gorfunkel, Leibovitz, Goldberg
A. P. KOBZAREFF
一
and others.
I. I. PLOTIZA
"Seaview dotel", Hoshigaura.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.94)
(8)
IG (British)
ining Bu1lding, Higama-koen-cho.
WENTZEL
CH. E. PAI.I
J. P. PRIBAS (lrobas)
G. N. VACAKIS
Yamagato-jori.
YANIS
STAVITZKY
130 1osh1aura.
F. G. ALSXIAWI.
121 Y.v to-or1.
RIVKIN
Yamngato-dori.
J. I. BEERBRAYER
OMASSA
91 M1nomachu.
VITKOVSKY
141 Hoshigaura.
KOMMISSAROFF
GALILEVICH
112 Sakura-machi.
DUBSON
513 Hoshigaura.
M. I. CHESH
39 Nanzan-roku.
2ISY.IN
54 Yaungsto-dori.
I. SANOSIAN
Kakahashi.
M. G. MOTSCHITZKY
Hotel "ltorado", Hoshigaura.
L. LERNER
Hotel "jentral, Jeiren.
IHIN
125 Hoshigaura.
AM. SHIRSL DE FLORANCE
54 Yamagato-dori.
Further lists will follow.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, Manchuria, Ootober 3, 1935.
CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT:
Effeots of Recent Chinese Legislation
1-1058
on Drug Traffic.
THE HONORABLE
A
S
S
JHE SESRETARY OF STATE
H
Cr
WASHINGTON
5
2
E
SIR:
4
R
DEPART
1935 NOV
()
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
894C.
telegraphio instruction No. 2 of noon, September
19, 1935, to the kmbassy at Peiping calling for the
.11
submission by consuls in China of reports concerning
the effects of l934 and 1935 chinese drug legislation.
4
894C.114
NARCOTICS
Since the Kwantung Leased Territory is adminis-
tratively a part of the Japanese Empire, it would be
500.2177
difficult to evaluate the direct effect of recent
Chinese drug legislation on the traffio in this dis-
trict. While China proper has been for some time a
source of supply of illicit drugs, Manchuria is be-
03
coming inoreasingly important as a point of origin
for the looal supply, it is believed. No figures
are available relating to quantity of produotion in
M
the Territory. Neither are exact figures concerning
purokase and sale released by the Opium Monopoly Bu-
NOV -8
reau of the Kwentung Leased Territory. The nearest
0
I carbon datroyed 

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
● 8 •
to definite figures from this source is obtained from
the Kwantung Government Budget for the fisoal year
1935-56 (Apr1l 1, 1935 to March 31, 1936), 1n which
"Menopoly Revenue", in the amount of yen 4,104,600,
is segregated in one item under the general heading
"Monopoly and Government Owmed Property Revenue.*
The above figure is understood to represent revenue
derived by the Bureau from the sale of opium. under
the item "Business Expenditures", in the same budget,
1s the figure Yen 2,071,069, representing, presumably,
purohases of opium. By way of comparison, the budget
figures for the fiscal year 1934-35 were "Monopoly Re-
venue", Yen 4, 950, 280, and "Business Expendituresw,
Yen 2,083,799. The figures set forth in the budgets
for both years are estimates.
Statistios concerning countries of origin of drugs
destined for the Kwantung Leased Territory also cannot
be obtained. However, the offioial customs returns
issued by the "Manohukuo" Department of Finance show
importations of opium through the port of Dairen into
Manchuria during the calendar year 1934 in the amount
of 100,784 catties (131,019 pounds), with a value of
"Mamchukuo" Yuan 1,934,089 (equal at the average ex-
change rate of that unit of currenoy for l934 of U.s.
$0.S2sl9, to approximately U.S. $540,900). of the
above importations, approximately 42 per cent came
from Turkey, 84 per cent from kgypt, 18 per oent from
Persia and l6 per cent from the Japamese Empire.
Figures for the first six months of the present year,
ahow

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.97)
● 3 -
show imports 1n the amount of 46,240 catties (13,872
pounds), with a value of -Manchukuo" Yuan 624,815
(U.S. 193,125).
No precise data are available relating to illicit
drug manufacture, total consumption of smoking opium
or the abuse of manufactured drug locally. However,
it would appear, from the frequency of press reports
of narootics seizures and arrests, as well as the ad-
mittedly wide activities of the police in detecting
and suppressing the smuggling of drugs that a con-
siderable illicit traffic exists here, both in trans-
shipment and in sale. It is to be noted that such
official figures as can be obtained relate only to
opium and do not take into account other varieties of
narcotios with whioh, it is believed, the underground
trade is largely concerned.
The Kwantung Government Home for Opium ▲ddiots,
located in Dairen, is the only institution known to be
concerned with the cure of drug addiotion. Although
the Home is an official establishment, the Government
itselr exercises no compulsion in placing patients
therein. During the past 10 years a total of 5, 000
patients have been treated and the number of patients
reoeived at the present time is at the rate of 50
each month. It is estimated by the Home that from
3 to 4 per cent of the local population are in need
of treatment. The number who voluntarily enter for
treatment or who are placed there by interested per-
sons is naturally much smaller than the eligible total.
It

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.96)
It is estimated that about 10 per cent of the patients
are reoidivists. The usual course of treatment lasts
three weeks and it is understood that the treatment,
as well as the general direction of the Home, is both
humane and intelligent.
Respectfully yours,
Troy L. Perkins,
merioan vice Consul.
811.4
TLP:L
Original and four copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Treasury Attache, Shanghai
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Geneva
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
Copy to Consulate General, Tientsin
4
2
doivod

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
8940.01/84
despatcn #-
894C.
SEE
FOR
China (Nanking)
Atcheson)
Sept.12,1935
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1 -1137
NARCOTICS
REGARDING:
narcotics control in Kwantung Leased Territory.
1v

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.88)
November 6 1935
894C.
X COLIDETLAL
Attemtioniren el lareeties
The Seeretary of State presemts his compliments
to the Hemerable the Seeretary of the Treasury, and
NARCO TI CS
trsmmmits herewith, for the stristly comfidential
infemmstion of the Commissioner of Harcoties, a copy
of & maport on the Evantung Leased Territery, which
/1
mitted to o Bepartment under date of Angust 19, 1935.
05
It was thought that this repert would be of interest
to the Cemmissioner in view of the unusual positien of
the Ewantung Leased Territory and of ite impertance as
a source of sapply fer the illieit traffie in mareetis
drmgs. Attentiom is direeted to the pertioms of the
repert which deal with the budget and with the questien
of meseeties comtrel.
A rug
Eslessse:
the algno arigi-
nsl.
soy
Kal
198:P
4
YEISJF:AT
FE
11/6/35

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.
11
4 NAR COTICS
SEE893.114 Narcot1cs/1340
FOR letter
FROM Treasury Dept.
) DATED Nov. 6, 1935.
TO
NAME
REGARDiNG: Reports from Treasury Attache Nicholson at Shanghai.
Tranamits copies of -.
06
jm

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.89)
e71935
103
894C.
Attentionr_at aregtias
The Seeretary of State presents his compliments
NARCOT iCS/IO7
to the Honerable the Secretary of the Treasury, and,
with referemee to this Department's letter of Ootober 22,
1935, emeloses herewith, in duplicate, for the cemfides-
tial infermatiom of the Cammissiomer of Narootics, a copy
of despateh No. 76, dated Cetober 3, 1935, from the
Amsrieem Censulate at Dairem, in regard to the effest
of resemt Chinese legislation on the tpaffio in narcotis
drags in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
A true copy of
hal.
Oatober 3, 1055,
a √sony
M
NOV 7 1985
FE: HOS: AT
11/6/35

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.114 NARCOTICS/108
SEE
311.113 Jones.Harold S./2
FOR
Letter
Nov. 8, 1935
--) DATED
FROM
TO
Treasury Department
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Information in connection with death of
Harold S.Jones at Dairen from morphine
poisoning.
8
med

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.91)
A
i
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
OFPATTH
WASHINGTON
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVA
FRASTS
7-1936
file
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State.
CobyF
894C.114 NARC0TiCS/109
Sir1
Attontion: Mr. Stuart J. Fuller
I have the honor to refer to previous oorrespondenoe, your file
numbor FE 894C.1l4 Narootios/94, in rogard to the aotivities of Curt
Smith, suspooted of complioity in the illioit traffic in narcotio
drugs, and to transmit herewith for your further information two
copies of a lotter, dated September 19, 1936, from the Aoting
Treasury Attache at Paris, together with oopies of its enclosures.
oonoerning the statoment made by Max Kattwinkel, a former assooiate
of Curt Smith, on August 28, 1936, before the German Central Naroo-
tios Office at Berlin.
By direotion of the Seoretary:
Very truly yours,
CZaylo
e ayne
OCT
FILED
Assistant Seoretary of tho Treasury.
1936
Enolosures
W

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OFFICE OF THE TREASURY ATTACHÉ
CUSTOMS
GRAPH ADDRESS
ENT. PARIS
2 AVE NUI GABRIE
PARIS.IRANCI
The Commissioner of Customs,
Investigative Unit,
Treasury Department,
ashington, D. C.
sir:
There is tramsmitted herewith a memorandum, dated
at Paris. September 14, 1936. relative to the suspected
narcotic trafficking activities of Curt SMITH, forwarded
to thie office by Mr. Charles 3. Dyar, Speciel Agent,
Burean of Nareotics. The translation of e statement
made by Max Kattwinkel, an associate of Curt Smith, re-
ferred to in r. Dyar's momorendun, is also enclosed.
A copy of the memorandum and its enclosure have been
forwarded to Mr. Nicholson at Shanghai. China.
espectfully.
J. HOMER BUTLER.
Treasury Representative,
Acting Treamury Attache.
AL
Enclosure: Memorendum of Charles B. Dyar and 1ts enclomure.
Original md one copy to Burem.
Ome oopy to Mr. Nicholson, with enclosures as above.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.87)
COPY
TR A URY DRI ARNTH T
UNCTIC
INGT
r1s, pten er 11, 1930.
OR.IT.
ke. Carl : 1th.
aFnttwinkel.
Roferenge 1s made to variou: ra, orte by mo t; the Bureau of Dar-
ot1ce, the last ones 'ated Februar"  and arch 6, l93c, and
partieularly to co munication: fro r. Nichol on, handhal, to
the Coamiss1oner of Custo a, atod January 31. 19.36, und  arch
6. l9s. concorning th trunaectior of rtith, us ected
narcotic traffic.er.
Thore is onclosed f t Infor tion of t rsuu of u tome
a trapalation of  stunent at  ratt l el, n a. soclyte
of Curtith, at rlin
 ,1936.11.att
boon recoived fron t aar intrul arcotiee fri 1 the
followins comment:
It appeara from hattwin el' tate ent thut urt  it ' truns-
actions constitute nothing but skin los. copy of the stawent
hen beon mont to the Britis! Home frice in pruar that the te ti ony
of the injure ngl ish marchants m y bo te en for une in proceedinze
against urith d hi courederates in rburr provided the
suapicion: ar confirmed. If vou :r in po ition to ontribute
any inforration, it woul be appreci ten if yo oul, . ent it.
he merchent, 1lly tieler, r ides t upt tra se J. erlin-
Pridenheu, an gintaiue n  fice t otedacerplatx 3, under the
name of "Toternational  ilchimdustrie. To c bl: ddress or wen"
still exists being registers: unier tn nar of verse svalop-
nent o.," of nasun, Nicaragua, reprezontatite " T : ".
hespuetfully,
(a1 ned) nar). yur.
pecial rent. 1reur pt.
Bernard it, suire,
. Treesury tache,
rericum rbasmy. Iari.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.88)
Derlin, A gust 28, 1936.
LATION
STATELMENT 
Rax Fr1odr1oh KATT.INKEL.
morohant, born May 5. 1887.
at upportal-lberfolu. at
prosont rosiding in Insel
Hotel, Berl in-Rahnsdorf-
dasselworder, eited,
I have been ongagod as a German moronant in Chine sinoe 1909. rur-
swant to the doowment sukmitted herewith I was appointed oorery (on-
swl of the Ropublio of diearayua for Chine on dovemner 21. ly 1. n
November 24. 1934, i received from the rresident of the cinuse cpuolie
the doeoration of the "Blu;, Jad:", one of the nigiest rdor whic  inn
an oonfor. In the year 1934 I beoame mequainted witu the more nt  urt
SMITH. whe had migrated from Geraany to Chine. 1 met nim in  uciel
way, and business relations doveloped later, after ne howet o a ittur
of introduotion from the fire of sluul  XLcdan of dambure 3, .ounod
in l869, whioh I ropresent. I was on exoellant tors witn Curt .
and be rendored me vuluable sorviees in importunt nerotiations. 1: in-
duoed m to give him a power of attorney for my fir.fter  " c
I reeeived a lotter fron the fira of SCul  Aloukhlin. dnted June 1.
1935. 1asorming  thet they wore pevering rol1ons r.  Le-
u thay d lrnd fro themburg Crimin o ico thturt
bad proviously boen involved i a narootio soa dal.rt.. doiod
these obargos unerpotioully, anu onlled on the umunr, ) imiuai :olio.
Narootie Division, when be viuited ramburg 1 upterr. ly. e told
me that the lolioe had oonfirmed to him thnt he was nct unuer suepioion
of angagiag in tno narootic truffic. i ex russly umphusize thn: it was
y personal impreasicn thut these statmento of .   wore oorreot.
ad that he motually did not partioi ete i: n arcotic tr nsnotis
es long as 1 know hin.
In Jmo, 193. ur. i . akol m to porit nim to us y ir for
drafts ountine to ovoral thousnd ilon rownc;  ludly groed
in viow of his ood sorvioes to we. wy rir. wos le lake over for sir.
Curt SIl' cunvonienoe oooptanos ountin l Irom 100 to 200 ng-
lish pounds. Theroupo.. I travoiled to vnrious placen in the r:r sast.
and upon roturning to shangiu1 learned to y groat rugret that wir. Curt
SIry bad, behind my back and without notifyin mo, uulonded drafts
amounting to roughly 12,000 uglis lownds. or 10.00 o1chaarx, on
my fi. The ptanee wre euted by hi d . T.
during my absenee, and no information whatever was ivon  of the
contonts and nature of the shipmonts. The drafts did not pass turough
ay books, so that I nad no idea of and oould not oontrol what was veing
deme with my name in this respeet. Then I dimcovered this I remoustreted
very strengly with ir. SkirH and had him able to Londen imwdiately to
put a step to any further tranmmetions of that mature. It turned out in
this eommeetion that on the basis of favorable ropor's frcm his agonte
in Ametordam regarding my Firm. obtained from London Banks. ir. Curt

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.87)
mes about to have ais agents arrange for additional shipuents
Busting to about 20.o00 Engliah Pounds. Happily it was posslule 
rovemt thuse shipments. Mr. sirH deelared to me that he au  tne
full rospomslbility for all the drafts rumning 1or my acoount, u.. 1.
addition ho promised me 2t% oommiuslon on the whole amount.
oonfirmed this in a lotter to the shanghal-o xon cor orn lon. no
biggost Engliah Bank in Chine, under date of Je, umber 7. iy.
The morohandise ahipped to Hong Kong and wairon ni.st tneso
drafts mms abem upon imapeetion by mysels and my ro, rosunt:live in
Hong Kong, Mr. Goorg EsChrin. to be abuolutoly worthienx for tne tur
ast, in apite uf all afforte it wmas impousiblo t cbt i. uity oflor:
for it from Chinose buyors, u it was nothing out ruubinn. Ine alos
whioh it mms possible to nogotiate brought suerocl, l. of tho involon.
and doolarod val. A an oxaaple of this I uut t tho original uill ol
the Firm of Paul lNt.  CC.. Kluine vohalioctras 4. amlurt 11.
datod Nay 16, 193. The 300 ". loturos ni te tylu, wade 1n zoonc-
slovakia quoted thoroin at dks.4.40 apiooe ro ruuent - seles value of
10 pfonalgs apiooe aotually. sampios of them oun o suppliod. I fur-
ther submit a oarbon oory of an inventory of the miren snipaor.ls wnion
I pursonall, gave to siln. simlinr roports rogurain, woag nong ure
likowise avallable. These trannotions wore onrrioa uut in the follow-
1ngr the Gorn oontidentil gnt or  Th. suon the
xport hou. suon a BAlrhi.  on, t., /7s ing illia truct.
London c. C. 4. and the ungiinl housos forwarden cne  oods to r.
ORAUDING in Lon on or Astordan. GRUuiNG on ai part ottleu itn the
Hamburg ahippors, o that in y opinion thu linmnolal transmotions wore
bandled ohlofly by GhAUuING and  aul :INT  . Fhey recoives tne
foroign ozohange paid by the n, lish firms. fhe last nduren ci 
was Hotel rleissig. nastorden. it i. bulioved tnat nis wife and ouild
ar in Borlin.
I foel that 1 have beon gavely injured by iin und hi: contode retes.
and I comeidor the utilization of y firm in uhen hni o direot bromon of
confidenee. In my opinion the transaetions thonstives ucnstitute an nt-
solute windle, to whion pro er attont lon shoui b  ivon y te muthorl-
ties in the intorost of Cormany and its oud numr i the com.er, lei worlu.
It has oome to my notiee thet nglich port urnl: neve cu, luine in
bitter language of Gormany's windlos. I full, widerntuna Lno ni,  in-
digmation of English banking and commeroial ci cles. lo, my own name und
roputation have sufferod groatly through thosu swindlor.. ihun i heve
the greatest interest in having the invoiee swindlen in thio oase fully
eleared ap, and I offer y ontire sorviees to the Geranln authorities in
that eonmeetion. Before leaving Shanghal I made tne mame offer to the
leading English Bank in Shanghai, whioh oan be oulfirmed at any time .
the direotore of the Hong Kong Shanghai Hanking Corporation. i made a
similar eommmleation to the head of the Germen Chamver of Coeree in
Shanghal befere I left.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.85)
-3 -
To oonolude I would like to statu that nover in my life have :
anything to do with the trade in or mmle of marootic drugs of any
And. I doolare hore under oath that thie trade is foreign to mo in
very wey. and that I would considor it boneath ay di, nity to ou m noy
in suoh e filthy mannor.  I had boon oonoor ou in mny wa. wiin narcu-
tio drug transaotions or in tne invoiou s iudlut woul, not nave vol un-
torily made my oomplalnt to the ioadi:y nglioh nk in hangne1.
I submit the following dooumonts for your filens
1. Bill of the Firm of Paul 7InTih  Co.. aleine Jonannisstr. 2-4.
Hamburg 11, datod lay 16. 19
2. 3111 of tho F1 of B.on.7-70 n1n111am
Strt. ndon. . 4. dato  22. 1
3. y roport dated Jnnury 23, 1.  udrood by me to .
The samples of merohanuise from the firm ol . InT.. nill be avnil-
ablo in about a wook.
jictatod, epprovod anu signedi
sax Kat ninxol.
108001
Bst. iabpeclor Prt
oopy/feo

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
SPECIAL GRAY
Tientsin via N. R.
Rec'd 85 a. m.
Nov aber 2, 1936
ySecretary of State,
NCS
Washington.
NOV2 - 1936
yi
894.C
Pepartihiont of State
FOLLOWING FROM THOMPSON FOR PHE SEGRETARY OF THE
TREASURY.
"Just finished Korea, Manchukuo, Dairen. Large scale
114
narcotic smuggling racket operating out of Dairen conducted
cover
by local Europeans with businesses connected with ship
NARCOTICS/IIO
ping. Unlimited quantity cheap narcotics available. Watch
all ships and shipments originating Dairen, particularly ship-
monts bearing Dairen names as shippers or agents: Diderlo-
vitch, Ruthe, Kardish, Beerbrayer, Lelchitski, Wurtzell,
Fasting, Kapustin, Kovner, Bagdanovsky. Watch soybean oil,
cases or shipts tanks. Watch ships touching Newchwang and
Hulutao, both Manchukuo ports."
895.114ma
BERGER
HPD
NOV 3 1930
FILED

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.93)
November 2 1938
In reply refer to
FE 894.0 114 Baro0t1cs/110
CONFIDENTIAL
894C.
Attention: Custome Agency Service
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
114
to the Homorable the Seoretary of the Treasury, and
encloses herewith, in duplioate, for the information
NARCOTICS
of the Treasury Department, a copy of a telegram dated
November 2, 1936, from the American Consulate General
at Tiemtsin, whioh contains a message from Commander
Beriah M. Thompson, retired, to the Secretary of the
Treasury, in regard to the illicit traffic in narcotio
drugs in Chosen, Manchuria and Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory.
Enslesure:
A trve cor
8, 193s, in daplieete.
nal.
Hod
R
N 1938 PM
11/2/36
FE:HOS:AT

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.114 NARC0TICS
SEE
894.114 Narcotics/252
FOR DESCRIPTITE ENTRY
FROM
) DATED Dec. 3Q. 1936
TO
NAMC
1127
REGARDING:
C.541.M.350.1936.XI.(0.C./A.R.1935/45).
Annual Report by Japan for 1935.
2
1'

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.114 NAPC0iCS
SEE
811.ll1 Beerbrayer.A.
FOR Letter
FRoM ._TreasuryDepartent
-) DATED
June.23.1937
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Copy of report fromChina concerning activities of A. Beerbrayer,
suspected narcotic trafficker.
j
131

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
-9-
5
RECEIVED
AMERICANICQNSULATE
Dairen, Manohuria, March 24, 1938.
1358 APR 13 PM 4 02
lo Jhe
Inst
jele
894C.114 NARC
copy..
SUBJECT:
Developments in the Opium Monopoly
1-1088
of the Kwantung Leased Territory
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
()
-1
WASHINGTON
C
SIR:
C
1 have the honor to report in regard to recent
developments in the opiun monopoly of the Kwantung
Leased Territory.
2
There are appended hereto translations made in
the Consulate of Imperial Ordinance No. 84 amending
A/286
895114
M
Imperial Ordinance No. 53* promulgated March z7, 1924,
as previously amended by Imperial Crdinances No. 167
of 1938, No. 380 of 1934 and No. 7 of 1937, and Kwan-
tung Bureau Ordinance No. 8 containing rules for the
enforcement of the above-mentioned Imperial Ordinance.
I am informed by the authorities of the Kwantung
Monopoly Bureau that these two Ordinances embody all
MAY 2 193E
laws directly concerned with opium, of the Kwantung
FILND
Leased Territory.
In brief, the Imperial Ordinance above-mentioned
provides for the manufacture by the Kwantung Monopoly
Bureau
translation of Imperial Ordinance No. 53 of 1924 was
appended to the Consulate's despatch to the Embassy at
Tokyo dated December 9, 1929.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
一2-
Bureau of prepared opium as well as for the official
control of sales, hitherto exercised, and imposes
stricter measures of control over the possession of
opium. A relatively severe fine, Yen 3,000, and im-
prisonment for less than three years, are prescribed
for retail dealers who manufacture or adulterate pre-
pared opium. (This penalty, which is primarily de-
signed to protect the quality of the Monopoly's products,
contrasts strikingly with the mild punishment dealt
out to those convicted of the manufacture and sale of
other narcotics).
The Kwantung Bureau Ordinance contains detailed
regulations governing the control of permits issued to
addicts, and over the quantity of opiun obtainable by
these permits.
Supervisory rules concerning addicts
are set forth in detail, and retail dealers are re-
quired to keep records of their transactions and to
make reports of all sales to the police.
Shortly efter the promulgation of these Ordinances
I called on the newly appointed director of the Kwantung
(Opium) Monopoly Bureau, Mr. Noboru Yasunaga, who has
just been transferred fron his former post, now abolished,
of Civil Administrator in Port Arthur. He received me
very courteously, and was good enough to give me con-
siderable material for this report.
According to Mr. Yasunaga, the basic purpose of the
recent revisions is to make it possible for the authori-
ties to control more completely the manufacture and sale
of opium and to exercise closer supervision over addicts.
In

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
一3 -
In the past, he explained, the Monopoly Bureau has
acted simply as a "sales monopoly" which imported crude
opium and disposed of it to designated retailers. These
dealers were then free to manufacture prepared opium
from the crude opium and to dispose of it to addicts
having police permits to smoke.
The profit motive
being paramount in this system, the dealers were often
discovered to be adulterating the opium and engaging in
other dishonest practices. By the new system set up
under the amended laws, the Kwantung Monopoly Bureau
will act not merely as a sales monopoly but also as a
manufacturing monopoly.
The Bureau has recently
established a factory in Port Arthur which manufactures
prepared opium from the crude.
Dealers are now pro-
hibited from manufacturing or processing opium and act
simply as retail distributing agents for the Monopoly.
According to Mr. Yasunaga, the new laws will close a
number of loop-holes which formerly led to abuse, and
make it considerably easier for the government to ex-
crcise the control which, it hopes, will eventually
lead to the complete abolition of opium addiction in
this Territory.
Mr. Yasunaga is unquestionably correct in stating
that the new laws provide a greatly increased measure
of control over opium.
The steps taken would seem
definitely to be in the direction of the recommendations
of the Geneva Opium Convention to the effect that the
manufacture of opium should, as soon as possible, be
organized as a governmental enterprise, and would appear
to

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
一4-
to provide adequate machinery for effective control.
The question arises whether such control will be ex-
ercised in the direction of reducing the number of
addicts with a view to eventual abolition of the opium
evil, or whether, as in the past, the huge profits from
the sales of opium will prove to be an irresistible
temptation for the Government to use the Monopoly as
a source of revenue.
One of my consular colleagues
with whom I discussed the matter gsve it es his opinion
that the new system was "all eye-wash" and that it was
devised simply to divert more of the profits of the
traffic from the pockets of the retail dealers into
the government treasury.
The past records of monopoly systems in other por-
tions of the Japanese Empire would tend to bear out this
pessimistic view.
In Chosen and Taiwan the authorities
have never given evidence of any determired effort to
stamp out the opium evil and the number of addicts in
those territories shows little sign of diminishing.
Furthermore, the recent establishment in the Kwantung
Leased Territory of a factory for the production of pre-
pared opium and the housing of the office of the Bureau
in a handsome new edifice in Dairen would not seem to
Nor does
point to the early abolition of the traffic.
the appearance of the article sold by the Monopoly seem
designed to discourage sales. I enclose a sample of an
empty tube, looking like a small tooth paste container,
which is made by the Monopoly to contain its products.
The tube, and its covering carton, which were obtained
through

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 
through the kindness of Mr. Yasunaga, are attractively
designed and are labeled (in large characters) "Good-
1. Certainly
the appearance of the package is not calculated to im-
press the purchaser with the evil and destructive
nature of the contents.
On the other hand it seems very likely that wide-
spread criticism of the opium traffic in Japanese col-
onies, especially by American representatives in Geneva,
have had their effect and that the recent changes may
represent a real effort to exercise more effective con-
trol. Iu support of this view there is quoted an ex-
cerpt translated from the MANSHU NICHI NICI of February
22,1938.
"The need for revision (of the opium laws)
has been keenly felt especiaily in view of the
fact that in every meeting of the Opium Confer-
once in Geneve there is vociferous criticism of
the operation of government opium monopolies
and Japan has come in for considerable criticism.
It is believed that the amendments now introduced
into the laws will serve to quiet the critics...."
In considering the Kwantung opium monopoly, (which
incidentally is officially entitled simply the Kwantung
Monopoly without any indication as to the product which
it handles) it should be borne in mind that the activi-
ties of this organization are confined to the purchase
of crude opium, and the manufacture and sale of prepared
and medicinal opium. Its purchases of crude opium are
made chiefly from the Chosen Monopoly Bureau, and to a
lesser degree from Iran and Turkey through the agency of
Mitsui and other large firms. According to Mr. Yasunaga,
the Monopoly has no direct relationship or connection
with

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6-
with similar monopolies in any other Japanese colony
or in Manchukuo" nor does it export opium in any form.
It handles opium only and does not deal in any other
form of narcotics. It has no control over smoking
permits, which are issued by the Kwantung Police, and
it has no authority to examine or supervise the addicts.
It is, in effect, simply an opiun manufacturing and whole-
sale selling organization operated by the Government.
The tube above-mentioned contains 5 grams of pre-
pared opium and is sold at retail for 90 sen. Cartons
containing 50 tubes are sold by the !onopoly to retail
dealers for Yen 35, allowing them a profit of Yen 10
per carton or about 30 per cent, which is an exceedingly
generous margin of profit on a monopoly product. Per-
haps in making the Monopoly product cheap and attractive
the authorities have in mind the competition from non-
monopoly opium. I learn from reliable sources that
"bootleg" opium can be purchased openly at restaurants,
hotels and even tobacco stands in this city, at prices
approximately the seme as those of the Monopoly's pro-
ducts.
I shall endeavor in a later despatch to discuss
other aspects of the Monopoly Bureau.
I have also
asked to be permitted to inspect the new opium factory
in Port Arthur, and hope to be able to make a report in
regard thereto in the near future. I have also asked
for information and statistics in regard to the govern-
ment's sanitarium for addicts, but have not thus far
been

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.96)
一7-
been favored with a response.
Respectfully yours,
William T. Turner
American Consul
Enclosures:
Translation of Imperial Ordinance No. 84
of February 21, 1938.
Translation of Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 8
of February z1, 1938.
Sample of empty opium tube
811.4
WTT:L
In yuintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Hankow
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
10100

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
Bure No. 1 to despatch No. 9 dated Maroh 4, 1938,
om William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen,
anohuria, entitled "Developments in the Opium Monopoly
of the Kwantung Leased Territory"
SOURCE:
KWANTUNG BUREAU GAZETTE
February 24, 1938.
Translation
IMPERIAL ORDINANCE NO. 84
(Amending Imperial Ordinance No. 53 promulgated March 27,
19z4, as previously amended by Imperial Ordinances No.
167 of 1928, No. 380 of 1934 and No. 7 of 1937)
The Ordinance regulating opium in the Kwantung
Province is hereby amended as follows:
Article 2.
The word "smoke" is changed to "smoke pre-
pared opium sold under official auspices."
Article 3 (2).
The sale and dispensing of opium and
the manufacture of prepared opium and
medicinal opium shall be carried out by the authorities.
(2)
"When a retail dealer in prepared opium
shall manufacture smoking implements or shall
buy or sell, give, receive, own or possess in-
haling apparatus or prepared opium or opium."
Article 4 paragraph 2.
 The words "shall not buy or sell
(traffic)" are changed to "shall
not buy or sell, give, receive, own or possess (opium ash).
Nevertheless this clause shall not apply in case of an
addiot who, having obtained a permit in accordance with
the exemption set forth in Article 2, shall own or possess
opium ash which has been produced as the result of the
consumption of prepared opium."
Article 4 (new paragraph).
Retail dealers in prepared
opium may not process or
adulterate prepared opium.
Article 7.
The word "retail dealers in opium" appearing
in Section 1 shall be changed to "retail
dealers in prepared opium."
Article 9.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Artiole 9.
Paragraph 3 shall be changed to the follow-
ing: mThose who violate the provisions of
Article 4 (3) shall be imprisoned for less than three
years or shall be fined less than Yen 3,Ooo. Except
in cases of punishment under the provisions of the
first or second paragraphs of this Article, those who
violate the provisions of Article 4 and those who, being
addicts in receipt of permits under the exemption pro-
vided for in Article 2, consume opium other than that
prepared opium sold under official auspices, shall be
imprisoned for less than one year or fined less than
500 yen."
Article 15 (new).
The Ambassador may by order delegate
a portion of the authority conferred
under this law to the Governor of Kwantung Province.
Additional Rule. The date of enforcement of the present
law shall be fixed by the (Japanese)
Ambassador to Manchoukuo.
Translation: WTT
SOURCE: KWANTUNG BUREAU GAZETTE
February 21, 1938.
Translation
KWANTUNG BUREAU ORDINANCE NO. 7
Imperial Ordinance No. 84 shall be enforced on an
after February 21, 1938.
Kenkichi Ueda
Ambassador to Manchoukuo
February 2l, 1938.
Translation: WTT

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
ire No. 2 to despatch No. 9 dated March 24, 1938,
William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen,
hohuria, entitled "Developments in the Opium Monopoly
the Kwantung Leased Territory"
SOURCE: KWANTUNG BUREAU GAZETTE
February 21, 1938.
Translation
KWANTUNG BUREAU ORDINANCE NO. 8
Rules for the Enforoement of the
Kwantung Province Opium Law
article l.
a person desiring to obtain a permit for
the consumption of prepared opium shall make
application to the Governor of Kwantung Province, setting
forth his domicile, residence, name, age and occupation.
Article Z.
The Governor of Kwantung Province may, upon
receipt of the above-mentioned application,
grant such permit to a person who, being either a Man-
churian or Chinese of 2l years of age or over, has been
certified to be an opium addict by a designated physioian.
Article 3. Whenever a permit to consume prepared opium
is granted, an opium consumption certificate
shall be issued, in accordance with the appended form,
whereon shall be indicgted the daily dose and the opium
dealer from whom the addict shall procure his prepared
opium. Opium consumption certificates may not be
transferred and may not be loaned. The Governor of
wantung Province may cause the bearer of a amoking
certificate to be physically examined and may, at a
pecified time, or temporarily, alter the dosage or
withdraw the permit.
Artiole 4. In case of loss or destruction of a smoking
certificate, the certificate may be replaced
or reissued upon application being made to the Governor
of kwantung Province.
Article 5.
A person who has received a permit to amoke
opium may obtain prepared opium and a amoking
implement. A person who has received a permit to smoke
propared opium may not obtain prepared opium in exoess of
ten days supply of his fixed dosage. However, this rule
shall not apply in case be obtains a permit from the chief
of the oompetent police station for reason of travel or other un-
atbdrable rèasohe A smoker may not be in possession of a larger
quantity of opium than that specified in the foregoing paragraph.
artiele 6. a person who has received a permit to amoke
prepared opium may not obtain prepared opium
or smoking implements without exhibiting his smoking cer-
tificate.
Article 7.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 
Artiole 7. Opium ash and prepared opium containers
which remain from the consumption of pre-
pared opium shall be disposed of in accordance with the
directions of police officials exoept when such articles
are bought in by the authorities.
Article 8. A person who has received permission to con-
sume prepared opium may not procure prepared
opium from any person other than hs designated retail pre-
pared opium dealer, and he may not receive a amoking im-
plement exoept from a retail prepared opium dealer. In
oase a person who has received pe rmission to consume pre-
pared opium desires to change his designated retail dealer
in prepared opium, he may make application to that effect
of the Governor of Kwantung Province.
Article 9. In case a person who has received permission
to consume prepared opium shall change his
domioile, residence or name or in case of his death, such
matter shall within ten days be reported either by the
person himself or by his relatives to the Governor of
kwantung Province.
Article 10. The Kwantung Monopoly Bureau shall sell and
distribute opium and shall manufacture pre-
pared opium and medicinal opium.
Article ll. In case dealers in medicinal opium, retail
prepared opium dealers, and manufacturing
chemists having permission to purchase opium require
opium they shall make application therefor to the Kwan-
tung Monopoly Bureau.
Article l2. When sohools and laboratories require opium
for purposes of experimentation they may
make application therefor to the Kwantung Monopoly Bureau
upon receipt of a certificate from the competent ohief of
police. The opium mentioned in the foregoing provision
may be procured free of charge.
Article 13. Dealers in medicinal opium shall be selected
from among pharmmcists and drug dealers by the
Governor of kwantung Province. When physicians, dentists,
veterinary surgeons, and pharmacists require medical opium
they may apply for it from the dealers desoribed in the
foregoing olause upon receipt of a certificate from the
competent ohief of police. However, when less than 25
grams of medicinal opium is required for compounding pur-
poses within one year, such certificate shall not be re-
quired.
Artiole l4. Except in case such as those mentioned in the
foregoing article, medicinal opium may not be
obtained or dispensed without a presoription-slip by a
physician, dentist, or veterinary surgeon.
Artiole 15.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
Artiole l5. The export of medicinal opium shall be
governed by the provision of the regulations
governing narcotics.
Artiole l6. when a dealer in medicinal opium shall change
his domicile, residence or name or shall
abandon his business or shall die, notification thereof
shall be made to the Governor of wantung Province within
ten days by the person himself or by his relatives.
Article 17.
Retail dealers in prepared opium shall be
designated as required, by the Governor of
Kwantung Province.
article 18. A person who is the beneficiary of the de-
signation described in the foregoing Artiole
may sell prepared opium and may manufacture and sell opium
smoking implements. A retail dealer in prepared opium
may not sell prepared opium except for cash.
rticle 19. When a retail dealer in prepared opium de-
sires to change his place of business he may
receive permission therefor upon making application to
the Governor of Kwantung Province. When a retail dealer
in prepared opium changes his domicile, residence or name
or shall abandon his business or shall die, notification
thereof shall be made within ten days to the Governor of
Iwantung Province by the person himself or by his relatives.
article 20. Retail dealers in prepared opium shall not
procure prepared opium from any source other
than the Kwantung Monopoly Bureau. However, this pro-
vision shall not apply in regard to the disposition under
the provisions of Article 26 of left-over prepared opium,
in cases wherein permission has been received from the
Governor of Kwantung Province.
Article 2l. Retail dealers in prepared opium shall not
dispose of opium smoking implements except
in cases where a smoking certificate has been exhibited by
the person who has received permission to consume prepared
opium.
article 22. Retail dealers in prepared opium shall not
dispense prepared opium to any person other
than an opium smoker.in respect of whom he has been designated.
Artiole 23. A retail dealer in prepared opium shall not
dispense prepared opium in excess of the
limits imposed under Article 5.
Artiole z4. Dealers in medicinal opium and dealers in
prepared opium shall keep records of opium
and opium amoking implements purchased and sold. The
record of prepared opium and opium smoking implements
purehased shall indicate clearly each time a purchase
has been made, the kind, amount, price and the date of
such purehase. The record of prepared opium and opium
amoking implements sold shall indicate clearly each time
such sale has been made the kind, amount, price, date, the
residence

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.98)
residenoe, name, age, and other matters in regard to the
purchaser which may be specified by the Governor of kwan-
tung Province.
Article z5. Dealers in medicinal opium and retail dealers
in prepared opium shall make a report to the
competent chief of police by the 5th of each month in re-
gard to receipts and disbursals of medicinal opium, pre-
pared opium and opium smoking implements.during the previous
month.
Article c6. When it is desired to dispose of opium and
opium smoking implements in the following
instances, a report in regard to the facts of the matter
shall be made, within ten days of the occurrence thereof,
to the Governor of Kwantung Province and his permission
obtained. In case of the death of the person concerned,
the procedure shall be carried out by his successor or by
relatives.
1.
When a dealer in medicinal opium or a
retail dealer in prepared opium or a manu-
facturing chemist shall have had his designa-
tion or his permit cancelled or shall abandon
his business or shall die.
2.
When a physician, or dentist, or veterinary
physician or pharmacist shall abandon his practice
or shall lose his status or shall die.
3.
When a person who has received a permit to
consume prepared opium shall have his permit
cancelled or shall die.
Article z7.
Retail dealers in prepared opium and dealers
in medicinal opium shall observe the orders
of the Governor of Kwantung Province concerning their
business,
Article 28. In case of violation of the Kwantung Province
Opium Ordinance, the present ordinance or of
orders based on the present ordinance, or in case of dis-
honest conduct of business, on the part of a dealer in
medicinal opium or a retail dealer in prepared opium, the
Governor of kwantung Province may stop such business or
may withdraw the designation.
Article z9. A person who violates the provisions of
Article 3 clause z, Article 5 clause z and
3, Artiole 6, Article 8 clause 1, Article 14, Article 18
clause z, and Artioles z0 to z3, shall be imprisoned for
not more than one year or fined not more than Yen 200.
article 30. A person who violates the provisions of
Article 7 or Articles 24 to z6 inolusive, shall
be fined not more than l00 yen.
Article 3l. A person who violates the provisions of Article
9, Article 16, article 19, or Article 27 shall
be punished by detention or fine.
Article 32.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Article 32.
When the representative, family head, re
latives, cohabitor, employee or other per-
son in the employ of a dealer in medicinal opium or of
a retail dealer in prepared opium shall in the conduct
of such business violate the present ordinance the afore-
said dealers shall not evade punishment therefor on the
ground that such violation had been committed without
their direction.
Article 33. The panal clausesof the present ordinance
shall, in case they are found applicable to
a juridical person, be applied to the representative,
director or other such administrative office of the
juridical person; in case such penal clausesare found
applicable to a minor person or to a legally incompetent
person, they shall be applied to the legal representative.
However, this provision shall not apply to a minor person
who in the conduct of his business has the same mental
capacity as an adult.
additional Rules.
The present ordinance shall be enforoed
from the day of enforcement of Imperial
Ordinance No. 84 of 1938.
Eto., Etc., Etc.,
Translation: WTT

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.93)
4E
No. -13
AMERICAN CONSULATE
195871 54
Dalren, Manchuria, April 7, 1938.
S
ATE
r
ANY
SAM
894C.114 NARC0T1C8/1
SUBJECT:
Opium Addiction in the
1-1085
Kwantung Leased Territory
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SIR:
251
supplementing my despatch/No. 9 of March 24,
1938, entitled "Developments in the Opium Monopoly
5
of the Kwantung Leased Territory", I have the honor
to report that I was informed by the Kwantung Govern-
ment in a note dated April 6, 1938, that addicts
holding police permits to smoke opium in the Kwantung
Leased Territory number 28,197.
Respectfully yours,
WuliauT
William T. Turner
American Consul
811.4
WTT:L
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Hankow
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
MAY 5 13
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
W

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.93)
Apr11 29 1930:
894C.
893.
Attmtioni Bureau of Narcotien
The Secretary of State presents his compliments
一
4
to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury and,
NARCOT ICS
referring to this Department's letter of Ootober 1,
1930, and in accordance with the provisions of the
Barootic Drugs Import and Export Act, as amended,
encloses herewith, in duplicate, for the information
中
of the Commissioner of Narootics, a copy of despatoh
1
IUR
No. 9, dated Maroh 24, 1938, from the American Consulate
9
at Dairen, together with translations of Imperial
2
Ordinance No. 84 amending Imperial Ordinance No. 53
92
promalgated March 27, 1924, and Kwantung Bureau Ordi-
nance No. 8 containing rules for the enforcement of
the above-mentioned Imperial Ordinance, governing the
comtrol of the traffic in narcotic drugs in the Iwantung
Leased Territory. Two photostatic copies are also
enelosed herewith of the sample opiwm tube and its
covering carton which were forwarded with the molosed
dosyateh.
It
W

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.94)
It will be noted that Imperial Ordinanoe No. 84
provides for a maximum fine of Yen 3,000 and maximum
imprisonment of three years for retail dealers who
manufecture or adulterate prepared opium.
The Department does not appear to have received
the texts of Imperial Ordinances No. 380 of 1934 and
No. 7 of 1937, mentioned in the enolosed despatoh,
and the Consular Officer in oharge at Dairen has been
requested to endeavor to obtain copies thereof and
to forward them with translations to the Department.
Enolosures:
From Consulate, Dairen,
No. 9, Maroh 24, 1938,
with translations, in duplioate.
Two photostatic copies of sample
opium tube and covering carton.
√ so1
TH
th
sgoed origi-
APR 23 13389
Amn
4/28/38
FE
FE: GAM: AT

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.95)
Apr11 29 1938.
Wallism T. Turaer, Esqaire,
American Consul,
6Φ
Dairen, Manckuria.
$228
The reseipt is ackmowledged of your despatch
4
Ne. 9, dated March 24, 1938, in regard to recent
NARCOTI
develepmeats in the opiws monopoly of the Iwmmtung
Leased Territory. This repert is timely and valuable
of
and it has been given a rating/"Very Good". A copy
C
will be forwarded to the American represemtative at
S
the meetings of the Opiwm Advisory Committee at Geneva
for his information.
The Department does not appear to have received
the texts of Imperial Ordinances No. 380 of 1934 and
Se. ? ef l9s7 and you are requested to obtain, if
pessible, five copies of each and to forward them
with tramslatiens to the Department.
Very traly yours,
For the Sesretary of State:
R. Walton Moore

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
No. -26-
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Dairen, Manchuria, June 6, 1938.
18190
SUBJECT:
1—1065 G PO
894C.114 NARCCT1CS
φ
THE HONBRABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the, honor to refer to the Department's
293
instruction of/April 29, 1938, directing that the
texts of certain amendments to the Kwantung Opium
Ordinance be forwarded to the Department.
In compliance with this instruction there are en-
closed copies, in translation, of Imperial Ordinance
8
No. 389 (not 380) of December 26, 1934, and Imperial
Ordinance No. 7 of February 1, 1937.
These Ordinances
are self-explanatory and require no comment.
Respectfully yours
93.114n16
william T. Turner
American Consul
Enclosures:
Translation of Imperial Ordinance
No. 389 of December 26, 1934.
Translation of Imperial Ordinance
UL 19 1938
No. 7 of February 1, 1937.
FILD
811.4
WTT:L
In quintuplicate to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
W
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Hankow
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
molosure No. 1. to despatch No. 26 dated June 6, 1938,
from William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen,
Manohuria, entitled "Tranamitting Opium Control Law"
SOURCE: KWANTUNG BUREAU GAZETTE
December 31, 1934.
Translation
1MPERILA ORDINANCE NO. 389
of December 26, 1934.
The Opium Ordinance of Kwantung Province is hereby
amended as follows:
Article 2.
The words "Governor of Kwantung" are replaced
by "ambassador Plenipotentiary to Manchoukuo".
Article 3, Article 4 and Article 7. The words "Governor
of Kwantung" are re-
placed by "ambassador".
SUPPLEMENTARY RULE
The present Ordinance shall have effect from the
day of promulgation.
Translation: WTT

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
molosure No. 2 to despatch No. 26 dated June 6, 1938,
from William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen,
Manchuria, entitled "Iransmitting Opium Control Law"
SOURCE:
KWANTUNG BUREAU GAZETTE
February 16, 1937.
Translation
IMPERIAL ORDINANCE NO. 7 OF FEBRUARY 1, 1937
The Opium Ordinance of Kwantung Province is hereby
amended as follows:
article 9 (2). Persons using force or suasion to cause
minors under the age of 2l to s moke opium,
or in violation of the provisions of Article 4, to transfer,
possess or hold opium, shall be punished by penal servitude
of not more than 7 years or a fine of not more than 5,0o0
yen. Persons aiding and abetting minors under the age of
21 to smoke opium, or in violation of the provisions of
Article 4 to transfer, pos ess or hold opium, shall be
punished by penal servitude of not uore than 4 years or
a fine of not more than 3,000 yen.
Article lz. The words "foregoin: three Articles" shall
be changed to "foregoing four Articles".
SUPPLEMENTARY RULE
The date of enforcement of the present Ordinance
shall be fixed by the Anbassador to Manchoukuo.
(Enforced from February al, 1937)
Translation: WTT

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.92)
July 18 1938.
894C
An_ 
The Sesretary ef state presents his compliments
to the Hemerable the seeretary of the Treasury and,
4 NARCOTICS
referring to this Department's letter of April 29,
1938, encleses herewith, in duplicate, in accordance
16
with the provisions of the Narootio Drugs Import and
MANCHUR
Export Let, as amended, for the information of the
Cemmissiener of Nareoties, a eopy of despatoh no. 26,
dated Jume 6, 1938, from the Ameriean Consulate at
/1
Dairen, tegether with its enolesures, copies, in trans-
lation, of Imperial Ordinamoe no. 389 of December 36,
6.
1305
1934 and Imperial Ordinance no. 7 of February 1, 1937,
goverming the control of the traffie in nareetio drags
in the Ewemtung Leased Territory.
melesure:
JUL 18 1930.
Frem Cemsulate, Dairen,
me. 26, Jume 6, 103e, with
emelesures, in duplieate.
ongi-
nal.
Garn
9
7/16/38
FE: GAM: AT
FE

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
-60-
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, LManchuria, November 29, 1938.
1939 JAN 9 PM 3 49
、9
MMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
894C.114
SUBJECT:
Kwantung Opium Monoply
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit a copy in free
translation of an interesting iten fron a local
1.1
Japanese newspaper i. regard to the opium monoply
O
of the Kwantung Leased Territory.
It will be recalled that there were promulguted
early this year ordinances containinc elaborate pro-
visions for the stricter control over opium in this
Territory*.
At that tire the authorities declared
that the new legislation would close the loopholes
JAN 13 1939
FILRD
which formerly led to abuse and would make it con-
siderably easier for the government to exercise the
control which, it was hoped, would eventually lead
to the complete abolition of opium addiction in this
Territory.
Judging by the appended newspaper report, the
hopes
114
(24)
*Vide Consulate's despatohos/No. 9 of March 4, 1938 and
No. 26/of June 6, 1938 in/ regard to the opium monoply.
118

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
hopes of the authorities have not only been nullified:
there would seem to ive lee  positive inerease in
addiction among the residents of the city particularly
the Japanese. If, as stated in the report, there are
1,ooo Japanese addicts who are registered as such by
the police there nust be many ore who are not so regis-
tered.
Probably only those persons are registered whose
addiction to the habit as brought them to the attention
of the authorities.
Certainly the desire for regular
doses of opium does not necessitate registration, as
non-monoply opium can be purchased freely and openly
in this city.
I have myself purchased non-monoply opium
in the restaurant of the Ryoto liotel, Dairen's second
largest hostelry owned partially by the South Manchuria
Railway, and in the largest and most respectable Chinese
restaurant in the city.
Both of these restaurants
provide smoking couches and paraphernalia for the use
of their guests and make no attempt at concealment.
The fact that the number of Japanese addicts is
showing an increase, deplorable as it is, may contain
a certain promise of hope for future improvement.
As long as the victims of the traffic were only Chinese
and Koreans, the authorities were inclined to be com-
placent. But a marked increase in opium addiction
among the Japanese themselves, who have hitherto been
accounted largely free from the habit, will arouse the
authorities to action as nothing else would.
The reluctance of the authorities to take positive
steps

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
steps to stamp out the opium evil may eusily be sur-
mised from the budget accounts of the Kwantung Loased
Territory. Out of a total revenue estimated for the
current fiscal year at Yen 23 millions, the revenue from
Monoply Bureau was estir ated at Yen 2,216,970: truly
an enormous profit from the sale of opium in a territory
with a population of only 1,200,000!
Respectfully yours,
Williar. T. Turner
American Consul
Enclosure:
Translation of newspaper
article
811.4
WTT:I
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
Copy to Consulate General, Geneva

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolosure to despatoh No. 60 dated November 29, 1938, from
William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen, Manchuria,
entitled "Kwantung Opium Monoply"
OURCJ:
MAS HICAI.ICHI
November 27, 1938.
Free Translation
In the effort to abolish completely addiction to
opium smoking the authorities of the Kwantung Sanitarium
for addicts have since last yeur followed the example set
by Manchukuo and have carried out compulsory cure of Jap-
anese, Koreans and Chinese. At the same time steps were
taken by the Opium Monoply to enforce compliance with
stricter regulations upon these dishonest dealers who had
been evading the law. However, opium addiction n d dis-
honest dealers are still flourishing, and with the approach
of cold weather there has been noted an inerease in the
number of persons found lying unconcious and dead from the
drug. Accordingly the sanitarium authorities have deter-
mined upon further efforts to att ck and overcome the evil
of opium addiction.
As a first step the authorities dosi to augument
their slender personnel, but this they f'd difric it
for budgetary reasons. Consequently they Plan to take
immediate curative measures in respect of Japanese ad-
dicts. In Dairen city alone there are more than 1,000
Japanese men and women addicts, anong which are servants,
geishas, wives, clerks, salari ed-men, business men in
fact people from all classes. The cure of these people
is a problem of no small proportions. It has been de-
cided to draw up a "black list" of such addicts and to
proceed with their cure as they come to hand.
Ir. Sakui, Chief of the Sanitarium, has declared
as follows:
"Thanks to the efforts of the Police since
last year a large number of addicts have been
treated and cured. Nowever recently the number
of addicts has again shown an increasing tendency.
Especially notable is the fact that in Dairen a-
lone the number of Japanese addicts has increased
to over loo0, wh ose broken bodies seen stretched
out in the back alleys are a reproach to our coun-
try in these times of stress. Much has been done
through the cooperation of the authorities, but
however successful a cure may be in the case of
employed persons, the cure of unemployed persons
does not remain permanent and such persons promptly
revert to their evil ways".

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.94)
11 1989
January
/20
894C.114
The Seeretary of State presemts his compliments
te the Neaerable the Sesretary of the Treasury, and
emeleses herewith, in duplicate, for the information
NARCOTi CS/I
of the Treasury Department, a copy of despateh no. 60,
dated November 29, 1938, from the American Consulate
at Dairsm, together with a copy of its enolosure,
in regard to the extemt of addietion in Iwantung
Leased Territory and in regard to the profit from
the sale of epium revealed in the budget accounts
2
for the ourremt fiseal year.
An méditiemal copy of despateh no. 0 is enclosed
for the infermation of the Publio Health Service.
M
melesure:
ue copy 
Gay
gam
PRIAT
1/11/39

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE ....
893.11416 Manchur1a/341
FOR
103
FROM
Dairan
(Tr) DATEDMay 8.1939
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Statistics of the trade in opium. Sets forth
certain - obtained from a publication entitled
"Statistics of Trade in the Kmantung Territory
1937" publ1sbed by the Kwantung Bureau at
Hoinking.
三
2

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Japan, arch 22, 1930.
..0. 72
Division of
FAP. EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 1.0 1930
raten
Copis to Treasry
894.114
+/11/30 Ent
2
The .onorable
4
The Secretary or state,
washinton.
Sir:
I have the honor to trans.it nerevitn a translation
1/.
of Ordinance No. 5 of tne Department of Comnunications
relating to the transportation of opium on Japanese ships,
from the Ofricial Gazette, .arch 17, 1930.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
2.2.
aall
W. R. Castle, Jr.,
Enolosure,
as stated.
American Ambassador.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.95)
In- oaure No.
an Embassy
15j0
N RULE EL  O SPOTATION
OF OPIUL. O. S.IPS.
Tokyo, OFFICI GAZETTE, Larch 17, 1930.
Ordinance No. 5 of the Department of Comunications.
The followin: rules relating to the control of
transportation of opium by s.ips are established.
I.atajiro Koizumi
1inist r or Comunication.
Liarch 17, 1930.
Article 1. Japunese ships slull not transport
opium except in one or t.e followin cases:
(1) In case the authorities concerned transport,
or nuve given permission to trunsport opium, between
Japan Proper, Kabafuto (Japanese Saghalien), Chosen,
Taiwan, Kwantung leased territory and the group of the
South Pacific Islands.
(2) As regards the international transportation of
opium, in case the authorities concerned of the country
of origin and the country of consignment import or export
opium or grant permission to import or export opium.
(3) As regards the internal transportation of opium
(exoluding cases coming under the first item), in oases
where the laws and regulations of the country concerned
relating

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2-
reiatin to t.e possession, reccivi.. or ransportation
of opium are not iniringed.
Article 2.
In case of the transportation of opium
in a forein country (in one country or between several
countries) in uccoruance witi. t.e provisions or t..e fore-
going article, the captain or tle transporting ship shall
promptly report t.e followin ite..s to tle . inister of
Comaunications t.rou. te Ja anese Consulate at tle port
of lading:
(1) The nale, total tonna e, anu ort of re istry
of t.e sip.
(2) The aduresses, nales unu titles or the ow.er
anu captain of t.e s..ip.
(3) The kinas anu quantity or the opium.
(4)
The port or shipment anu te port or landing.
(5)
The dates of snipment and landing.
(6)
The aduresses ana naes or titles of shippers
and consignees.
In making te above report, a certificate showing
that the transportation of opium is in accordance witn the
laws and regulations relatin tereto slall be attached.
Article 3.
In case the owner or captain of a ship
has violated the provisions of Artiole 1, he shall be
subject to either an imprisonment of not more than three
months or a fine of not more than one hundred yen.
Artiole 4. In case the captain of a ship has
violated the provisions of Artiole 2 he shall be subjeot
to a fine of not more than fifty yen.
Artiole 5.
In case the owner of a ship is a minor,
or an

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
or an incompetent person, or a juriuicul person, penalties
applicable to ni. shall be a plicable to his legal repre-
sentative or to te representative of the juridical person.
However, this exemption shall not apply to a minor who has
equal capacity to an adult in tie conduct of nis business.
Artiele U. T.e provisions o. tle present Ordinance
relating to t.e owner of a ship shall be applied to the
supervisor or supervisors of t.e sip wnen the s..ip is
owned mutually, and also to a person or persons who ..ave
chartered the ship wien the ship is unuer charter. The
provisions relatin to tne captain or a ship shall be ap-
plied to anyone who dischares te duties of a captain.
Supplementary Rule
The present Ordinance shall be put into force from
the day of promulgation.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.92)
In reply refer to
FB 894.114 Narootios/2
Afril 11, 1930.
844
Attention: Division of Foreign Control
The Aoting Seoretary of State presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of the Treasury
894a.114 Narcotis/1
and. referring to this Department's letter ofMarch 15,
1930, transmits herewith, for his information, a copy
of despatoh No. 72, dated March 22, 1930, from the
Embassy at Tokyo, Japan, with its enclosure, a trans-
lation of Ordinance No. 5 of the Department of Commu-
nications relating to the transportation of opium on
Japanese ships, which appeared in the "Official Gazette"
of March 17, 1930.
Enolosure:
Cepy of despatch No. 72.
dated March 22, 1930, from
Tokyo, with enolosure.
A tue cop
the signod
int
IV/11/50
FE1XHF
CR
Apr. 11.1930 p
gp

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.93)
APT!Y
894.114 Nareotios/2
894
The Aoting Secretary of State presents his com-
pliments to the Honorable the Secretary of Commeroe
and, referring to this Department's letter of March 15.
1930, tranemits herewith, for his information, a copy
of despatoh No. 72, dated March 22, 1930, from the
Embassy at Tokyo, Japan, with its enclosure, a trans-
lation of Ordinance No. 5 of the Department of Commu-
nications relating to the transportation of opium on
Japanese ships, which appeared in the "Official Gasette"
of March 17. 1930.
Enclosure:
Copy of despatoh No. 72.
dated March 22. 1930. from
Tokyo, with enolosure.
A true cupy 
the signed orig-
inal.
CR
Apr. 11.1930 pm
FB:NF
IV/11/30
JRS

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.95)
LLB
CFE
894.114.
In reply refor to
FE
Jay
894.
Dear Mr. Anslinger:
In the WASHINGTON HERALD of April 29. 1930. there
appeared an article by Kenneth Clark, Universal Service,
the heading and first part of which read as follows:
"SALES OF DOPE ADVERTISED BY BAPER
IN JAPAN
"1.100 Tons of Cocaine Offered to
Buyer in Orient, Snowing Huge Supply
of Harcotios.
"These advertisements appeared recently
in a apanesetrade paper:
No. B08. Code Word Maher--Cocaine,
orystal. Can supply 100 tons in 25-ounce
tins. Grate N. C. P. Dutoh manufacture.
Y.22 per ounce. inol. duty, spot Tokyo.
'No. 810. Cole Word Mahto--Cocaine
orystal. Can supply any amount up to 1,800
tons. In 25-ounoe tins. Boehringer's brand.
Y.22 per ounoe, inol. duty paid, špot Tokyo.
"RRPORTED TO U. S.
"The secret operative abroad who ran aorose
the advertisements wrote a report to the narootio
headquarters in Washington, frop which Universal
Serrice is permitted to quote:
If, as appears to have been the case, the quotations
Er. H. J. Anslinger.
from
Bearetery. Federal Earestics Centrol Beard,
Washingten, D. c.

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
from the Japanese trade paper were obtained by Mr.
Glark from the Treasury Department, I weald eppreciate
reseiving information coneerning the mame of the paper
and the date of the issue containing the quoted adver-
tisement.
I  particularly desirous of maring investigations
through our representatives in Japan concerning this mat-
ter, but fear that it will be very diffioult for them to
obtain information unless they can be given the data
reguested above. If you are unable to give me the name
and aate of the paper, or to obtain this information
for m.I should be grateful for any information which
might assist in running this matter down whioh you may
be able to supply.
Very truly yours.
XKS
J. K. Caldwell.
Representative of the Seoretary of State
on the Federal Narootics Control Board.
the signed orig-
CR
inal.
May. 15"1930.
PB: JKC: MF
/13/30

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.95)
APR 2 9 030
VE
From the Washington Herald
Tle (aile
unsting
"As for cecaine, it seemms at
SALES OF DOPE
most ineredible the quantity of
that drug which is circulatins
in the Far East.
2
"Here are two advertisements
offering to supply enough co
ADVERTISED BY
caine to aatisfy the entire legit
imate requirements of the world
for about 200 years."
That is only one source of the
illicit dope supply. much of which
May 15 1.9
PAPER IN JAPAN
is smuggled into the United
States.
Other paragraphs of the re
ports tell of the world-wide dope
syndicates:
"At Geneva, where the League
1,100 Tons of Cocaine Offered
of Nations' com mittee on
to Buyer in Orient, Showing
narcotics was held, France and
Switzerland have been re-
Huge Supply of Narcotics
peatedly whitewashed by their
delegate; yet it has been con-
clusively proved that two or
By KENNETH CLARK
three factories in these coun
Untvereal Service
tries are sending enormous
These advertisements appeared
quantities of drugs to Egypt, so
recently in a Japanese trade
much so that the Egyptians are
paper:
now nearly all addicts."
"Ne. ses. Code Word Maher
HUGE SHANGHAI TRAFFIC
—Cocaine, crystal. Can supply
"In Shanghai about $5,000,
100 tons in 25-ounce tins.
000 worth of drugs are seized
.Grade N. C. F. Dutch manufac
every year, which represents an
ture. Y.22 per ounce, incl.
actual traffic of about $50,000,.
duty, spet Tokyo."
000"
"Ne. S10. Cele Word Mahto
"Amoy is one of the biggest
-Decaine, crystal. Can sup-
bases in the world for trans-
shipment of illicit drugs to
Sms. In 25-eunce tins. Boch.
India, the Straits Settlements,
riager's brand. Y.22 per ounce,
Canada and America."
inel. duty pald, spot Tokyo."
"China, it is said, has now
REPORTED TO U. S.
suppressed opium production;
The secret operative abroad
yet enormous supplies of Chi-
who ran across the advertise
nese opium are in circulation.
ments wrote a report to the nar-
British India is flooding China
cotic headquarters in Washing-
with opium while she herself
ton, from which Universal Ser
is being deluged with cocaine,
vice is permitted to quote:
and the contraband, according
to information, bears Japanese
marks and lettering."
F-
1.
t 
Phoned Tlys
51
