894C.01 Kwantung Leased Territory, Government. Mandates, Recognition., April 14, 1932 - December 11, 1937 (File 986)
ID: 894C.01-986   Pages: 59   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.01-kwantung-leased-territory-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.01/76
SEE ....893.00/11934
FOR -#.1479.
FROM
China
Perkins
..) DATED
Apr1l 14,1932
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Admiral Tsai Ting-kan's conversation with Mr. Perkins in which the
Admiral, who is a resident of Dairen, expressed admiration for the Japanese
administration of that territory.
2
ek

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
Admiral Tmai now resides in Dairen and spoke with
admiration or the Japanese administration in that terri-
tory, although he gave no evidenoe or being a Japanese
ympathizer. He was formorly ver active in Chinese
politios, havins been one of the Chineme comissioners
1n the Custons Conference in reiping in l925 and at one
time aotin as Irenior.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894C.01/
893.01-Mandauria/895
Despatch #- to Embasay
SEE
FOR
FROM
Dairen
Vincent
) DATED
Apr.29,1933.
77
胡11
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Prospective Reorganization of the Government of the
wantung Leased Territory and related changes in
apanese official organisations in Manchuria.
fpg

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
79
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.002/252
FOR
Desp./1005
894C.01/
FROM
Japan
(Nevillo
-..) DATED
Oct.10.1934
NAME
1-1187
79
REGARDING:
Japanese representution in auchuria
to rerain under control of ilitary.
Reports regardin -.
ned

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
1F
Cory for Department
三
REGEVED
CON
1935.A2 AM 10 56
Dairen, Manchuria, Deoeaber 28, 1934.
(1F
Se
4C
BUBJECT:
Institution of New Forn of Government
for the Kwantung Leased Territory.
894C.01/80
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grow,
Amerioan ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
I have the honor to infor the mbassy that the
mmont of the Iwuntung Lousod Torritory. in the
maintained vith minor changos for the past
inty years, oame to an end on Deco. ber 25th, and
new government for the Territory bocame offective
the day following. The sabassy ay be in turested in
13
a brief desoription of tho for. anu pursonnel of
1935
this new governnent.
"Government of Kwantung Provinoe" seems to be the
most acourate translation of the Japunese charnoters
(關東州廳) now used. The Governor 1s r.1.
Chba, Chokunin, second rank, director of the ,olice
Bureau in the forner Kwantung Governent. It 1s in-
teresting to recall that kir. Chba was leader of the
strong opposition to the reorganization soheme formu-
lated by the Japanese Army and adopted uore or less
F/G
intact by the Government. He 1s desoribed by his
associates

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8 -
associates as a very able offioial.1s hoadqwarters
are in Port arthur until next april when tho overn-
ment will be truneferred to Dairen.
vovernor Chba has the following offices of the
Xwantung provinoial government under his control:
Seoretariate, presided over by r. . rikawa.
vepartmnt of Interior, r. . Yoneyama, chief.
Police Department, r. H. Tanabe, Chier.
Civil dministration ofrices at Dalren, rort arthur,
Chinohow, Pulan tien, and 1tzuwo.
The Dairen Civil Administration Office has been
rdued in importance through the appointment of r.
H. mdsutani of Sonin rank as civil dministrator so
muccoed Mr. Winoike, chokunin rank, who hns been trans-
forred to the Polioe Departaunt of the I. wantung Bu reau
at Hainohing. It 1s understood that the Dairen Civil
dministration cfrico will be abolishod when the t.wan-
tung Government moves to rairen in pri! next.
offioes which were desoribed as bureaus (
in the forwer govein ent are now desoribed as departments
in the rank of presiding officials fro.. hokunin to sonin.
The Finance Bureau has been abolished, financial matters
now being handled by the Departrent of Interior. r.
Nakamura, former chief of the inance ureau, has been
transferred to sapporo us a bureau chief.
The follow-
ing organizations, whioh in the past were under tho
Kwantung Governor, are now direotly oontrolled y the
Kwantung Bureau in Hsinohing: Marine Bureau; Communi-
cations

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
一 3 -
catioms Bureau; Law Courts and Prisons; Fort Arthur
Engimeering College and rolice Training Sohool; Govera-
mant Hospitals; Opium Monopoly Bureau and Asylum for
Opium amokers; sxohanges, Produce, currenay, et oetera;
Experimntal Stations, gricultural, Sericultural, Stook
Breeding, Salt, and quatio Produots; Museums and Li-
braries; and the Meteorological Observatory. The
South Memchuria Railway Company, formerly under the
nominal control of the Kwantung Governor, is now also
supervised by the Japanese mbassy in lHsinching.
what may be desoribed as the "ambassador's ofrice"
in Hsinohing is organized along the following lines:
General Jr Minami, Jupanese Ambassador to isinching
20
and conourrently commander in Chief of the Awantung
army, controls the Kwantung tGovernent and organiza-
tions located in Kwantung province. Directly under
the mbassador is r. RNagaoka, rresident of the
Bureau of kwantune, who is a chokunin, first rank, and
will soon, 1 an informed, be promoted to shinnin rank.
as his office indicates, r. Nagaoka is in charge of
all affairs relating to r. wantung  rovince and he also
exerolses general control over all non-military and
non-diplomatio/consular Japaneso interests in Manuhuria.
Military affairs are of course handled by General inami's
army staff and diplomatio matters by mbassador inami's
smbasay ataff.
The Bureau of Kwantung is composed of the following
offioos:
Dopartment

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.93)
-4-
Direeter (tr. Kusaka was formerly Chief of the
Baremm of Interior in the Kwantung Governmmnt).
Paliee Departmant, Major General R. Iwasa, Director
(Major General Iwasa is also Commander of the Japan-
ese Gendarmerie and as suoh airectly responsible to
the Comander in Chiaf of the Kwantung Army).
dministration Department, r. T. Omura, Director
(Mr. Omare is also Dirootor or the Department of
00
dmimistration for Commmioations which is direotly
under the Commanuer in Chier of the kwantung Army).
Beeretary end Mr. N. Likuriya, fonmerly in charge
No
or the Foreien Seotion of the Kwantung Government,
is Chief of the Documents Offioe.
The Govermer of Kwantunt, r. (hba, is bracketed as an
•qucl of the various Kwantung Bureau directors. The
fact that Major General Isawa and r. (mura, departmental
directors in the Kwantung Bureau, hold concurrent and mor
important posts under the Comander in hief of the Y wan-
tumg ary is interesting evidence of how jealously the
military is guarding ite contol. The Police Jepertment
and the Administration Departnent aie lookod upon as the
most important in the I wantuns uronl. It is anticipated
that mmtters pertainings to the ut anchuria Railway
Company will be handled direotly by General Mianmi al-
though nominally they appoar to he under the control of
Mr. Omra.
about two hundrod officials connected with the old
Kwantung Govurn ent have been transferred fron rort
arthur to Hsinching. Fanilies ure being left at Port
Arthur until suitable quarters are ready next sumer
or autum.
The logalizing and strengthening of military control
over

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
over affairs in Manchuria through the reorganization
is too obvious to call for comment. The effect on
the Xwantung Leased Territory 1s unimportant in ao far
as intermal affairs and foreigners are conourned.
youns Japanese named Ohwada in the Jection of General
Affairs at Port arthur is to succeed r. Mikuriya as
the "oomtaot man" between foreign consuls and the
Govermor. His usefullness in that capacity is
serioualy handioapped by inability to speak ore than
a few words of English and inexperience.
Rospectfully yours,
John Carter Vincent
american Consul.
800
JCV:L
Two oopies to Department.
Copy to Legation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate Gensral, Toxyo.
Copy to Consulate Goneral, Mukden.
Copy to Consulate Genural. Harbin.
ATOF
the signed ord
naw). (t.m..

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.90)
Copy for Department
DFPARTMEHT OF STATE
 ONULAT
1935.AN 2F AM 10 54
For
Grade
OF
For J.
AH
IONS
SUBJECT:
Institution of Now Forr of Govarnuant
for the Kwantung Leased Territory.
8940.01
密
The Honorable
4
894C.01/81
7.le
Joseph C. Grew,
amerioan mbassudor,
Tokyo, Japan.
on
Sir:
I have the honor, to refer the ibassy to my des-
10
patoh of Dece..ber 28, 1934, on the avove sub ject and
to onolose a chart of the rearganized Japanese overn-
montal systen in Munchuria. It is requesteu that
this chart be attachud to y duspatch in referonce.
Respectfuily yours,
FEB 1 3 1935
FILED
John Cartor Vinuent
american consul.
Enolosure:
As stated.
800
JOVIL
Two copies to Department.
Copy to Logation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, ukden.
Copy to Conaulate General, Hirbin.
F
▲ true copy
the aigned og
.a.m..
G

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.90)
Enetesure to despatch from
Secrotariate
marienm Csasal, Dairen, dated
Mhrire, ist ef
Beember 31, 1954, to the B-
bessy, Tokye, atitled "Iasts-
tution of New Form of Gevermment
S. Kasaka, Dérecter
for the Iwentung Leased Terri-
tory."
Police Depertment
Najer Gameral R, Iwase, Directer **
Pres, Kwantung Bureau
reteriate
R. Nagaoka
L. Airmm, Chier
Administration Depertment
T. Caura, Directer *
Intérier Depertment
S. Yomeyama, Chier
Geverner of Kwantung Previnge
Ambessader Plenipotentiary
K. Ohba
Pelice Department
Gemeral J. Minami
L. Tamabe, Chier
Secretaries
@tv11 Atsistratien ofr100
Coneurrently
E Ramatani at bairom.
Pouneillor of Embassy
Others at Pert Arthur, Chinchow,
M. Tan1
Pulantien, ad Pitsume.
Consuls General end Consuls
Chief of Staff
Lieutenant General Nishio
Cammander in Chief of the
Iwantung Carrison
Administration Department for Commmications
Gemeral J. Minami
T. Omara, Director
NOTE: Only Covernor Chbe and efficials
of the Govermment of Kwemtung
Provinee are stationed in the
mander of the Gendarmerie
Xwantung Leased Territory. All
Majer General R. Iwasa**
others are in Hsinching.
*Concurrent Positions
**Concurrent Positions

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.94)
occy for Departnent
MBRICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, Manohuria, January 26, 1935.
Change in Personnel of Kwantung Bureau
SUBJECT:
and Government.
894C.01/82
8940.01
The Henorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American kmbassy,
Tokyo, Japan.
S1r1
I have the honor to refer the kabassy to my des-
patah of Deoember 28, 1934, entitled, "Inatitution of
Now Form of Government for the kwantung Leased Terri-
tory". In the reorganized government, r. X. Ohba,
director of the Poli∞ sureau in the former wantung
Government, held the position of Governor of kwantung
Provinoe, and r. s. Kusaka, Chier of the Bureau of
Interior in the former Government, was appointed di-
MR
reotor of the vepartment of r olitical affairs in thet
Kwantung Bureau at Hsinohing.
These two officials held their new positions less
than a month. Mr. Kusaka has been appointed Governor
of Taiohu Prefecture in Formosa. Mr. R. Takebe, former
C1F
ly Govemor of akita Prefecture, 1s being sent to Hsin-
ching as Director of the olitical affairs Department,
and Mr. T. Takoshita, whom Mr. Kusaka is relieving in
Formosa, has been transferred to Port arthur as Governor
of Kwantung Provinoe. Mr. Ohba has been appointed
Governor

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -
Governor of Khime Prefecture in Shikoku.
These transfers are interesting in conneotion with
the reorganimed Kwantung Government. Both Ohba and
Kusaka took an aotive part in opposing the reorganiza-
tion. Both were assigned to important positions in the
army's reorganized systen, in order so Japanese think to
give the impression that no "hard feelings" were harbored.
and now both have been transferred to positions, accord-
ing to Japanese informants, of less importance than those
they beld under the former Kwantung Governent. In
speaking of these demotions, a Japanese official, unsym-
pathetio with the army, used the old Japanese saying
"If the pheasant had not cried out, he would not have
been shot" (Ki ji mo nakazuba utare maji). He also
had in mind Mr. Minoike, Dairen Civil Administrator in
the former Government (generally looked upon by foreign-
ers and many Japanese as being muoh less able and de-
serving than Ohba and Kusaka), and several others who
have been given positions in Hsinohing which may be
considered promotions because they did not "cry out".
Very respectfully,
John Carter Vincent
American Consul.
800
JOV:L
Two copies to Department
Copy to Logation, Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.
ut Dy of
the  
aint

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 16, 1935.
Dairen reports that the
seat of Government of the
Kwantung Leased Territory is to
be transferred from Port Arthur
to Dairen. Better communica-
tions, closer contact with
Manchuria, and more active
social life for government
officials are among the
considerations.
/DLY
894C.01/83

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
copy for Department
tile
MERICN COILRVIC
Ammrioan Consulate, Dairen, Lunshurta, Meroh 12, 1935.
A
SUBJECT:
Proposed Transfer of Territorial Governmemt
from Port rthur to Duiren.
B
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American mbussador,
894C.01/
Tolyo, J pun.
sir:
I have the honor to report that the uestin of
8
the trunsfer of the seut of covernrent of the Ywuntung
Leased Territory from .ort rthur to  iren has been
seriously contempluted for sone timo. The advantage
of having the seet of  overnment of the Territory
situated in .1ren is obvious. Better com unications,
closer contact with Inchuriu, und :ore active social
life for the covernment offici ls concerned ere among
FILED
the considerations.
AR 
Recently it has been announced in the public resa
thut the trunafer wil1 be mude on eptember 1, 1935.
It is proposed to use the  inseisho building on the
Central circle in  iren for the territoriul offices.
F/F
This building is nom used by the ivil dministrator
who acts somewlat as a dolorute for the covernor of
the Territory. 'oubtless with the ecrease in im-
portunce of the position of Covernor of the Kwantung
Leased

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
Leased Territory and the transfer to Hsinking due to
the influenee of the Kwantung ..rmy of most of the im-
portant personnel, the civil dministration will dis-
appear and 1ts personnel be merged wi th the Governor's
present rort rthur staff.
I am informed by a member of the Territorial Govern-
ment that upon the unnouncement in the press of the pro-
posel to transfer the seut of overnient to iren, the
Governor was wuited u on by the  yor of ort rthur and
by a delegution of notables of thut city to ascertuin the
truth of the roport.
Phe Governor informed them that
the transfer had been decided u o but thut the dute wus
still undertermined.
y infor ant states thut emissaries
of that croup were immeciately sent to sinking to enlist
Generul : inami's influence inst the pre ject.
I um in-
formed that the Kwant n rmy is not i: I vor of the
transfer but neither is it purtioulurl opposed thereto.
Matters rest in this state for the rosent.
"he . ort
rthur inhabitants, who are naturally stron ly opposed
to the proposed chan e, have alleged that the political
government should be dissociated fro the chief commer-
cial city or the Territory.adducing in support of their
argument the s ituation in many forei:n countries and
notably in oertain of the mmrlc n states there the
politicel oa 1tal 1s of ten not identical with the chief
commercial oity.
The Governor is endeavorin to combat
this thesis by showin that such situations abroad were
entirely fortuitous.
 momber of the covernor's staff
requested informetion from me on this point.
I informed
h1m

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
him that as far as the nited States is concerned no
case could be made out for either contention, since
the site of the National Cupital wus the result of a
major political compromise, while as regards ;tate
capitals there appear to be nearly s many not
situated in the chier indust ial city, us there are
identioul therewith.
In this connec ion further chan es continue to
take lece in the loca] police forcc, as & result of
the move of the loantung r to suborcinato the civil
police to its wuthority. urin y brief st in
Dairen there have been three chicfs of police nd a
number of shifts in suboruinute personnel.
Respectfully yours,
StuartGrummon,
mericun consul.
800
3.G:1
Two co: ies to Department
Co y to Le ation, :c1 ing
Copy to Jonsulate Gencral, o o
Co 7 to Consulate Generul,  u den
co y to consulate Cenerul,  rbin.
1.11

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 10, 1935
Nanking's dispatoh of September 12,
1935 in regard to the Japanese Adminis-
tration of the Kwantung Leased Territory.
The enolosed dispatoh brings out
the following points of interest.
(1) Originally Russia leased the
territory from China in 1898 for a period
of 25 years. By the Treaty of Portsmouth
Japan aoquired the Russian rights, subject
to the approval of China which was obtained
in 1905. In 1923 China refused to re-
cognize the validity of the extension of
the lease to 99 years obtained by Japan
in 1915, but Japan has refused their
request to return the territory to Chinese
oontrol.
(2) From 1905 to 1919 the territory
was administered by a military governor,
in l919 a civilian was appointed governor.
In 1932 the government was placed under
a General who jointly held the posts of
Governor of Kwantung, Commander-inChief
of the Kwantung Army and Ambassador to
"Manohukuo". In 1934 a civilian was
(made)

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
made Governor but he is indirectly
responsible to General Minami who is
Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army
and Ambassador to "Manohukuo".
(3) The actual administration is
oarried out by five Civil Administration
offioes which have been little changed
since 19l9. These offices operate under
the central main bureaux of Interior
Affairs, Finance and Police. There is
very little self-government.
(4) The Japanese have done much
politioally and oconomically to develop
the territory and the population has
almost tripled under their administration.
The larger part of the population is
Chinese with a few Japanese and Koreans.
There is a small number of occidentals,
mostly Russian.
(5) The police are effeotive.
The courts are unsatisfactory and ap-
parently partial to the Japanese.
Educational facilities are inadequate
except for the Japanese. Sanitation and
Health measures are excellent. Opium is
under a government monopoly but control
measures are inadequate and weakly ad-
ministered. The monopoly contributes a
large portion of the government revenues.
(Taxation)

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Taxation is not burdensome but "from the
foreign point of view, irritatingly un-
scientifio". Locally derived revenues
do not suffice for the government, partly
because it is charged with maintaining
police in the South Manchuria Railway
areas, and they are supplemented with a
subsidy from the Japanese Government.
There are 170 miles of railway in the
territory, effeciently operated, 100
miles of good roads with regular bus
services, a poor air service to Manchuria
and Korea. Radio and telegraph fsoilities
are exoellent. but the postal service
unsatisfactory.
(6) Agricultural methods, produotion,
and yield have made great advances and is
carried on almost entirely by Chinese,
even on Japanese owned farms. Refores-
tation is being actively carried out.
Improved livestook breeds are being
introduoed. Fishing is an important
industry with a few Japanese using modern
methods accounting for a large part. The
production of salt from sea salt fields
is an important industry. Dairen is an
important industrial oenter with soya
bean milling being the most important.
Dairen is also one of the foremost ports
of the Far East, most of the trade being
(destined)

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
destined for Manohuria.
The dispatch summarizes by stating
that the Japanese have shown little tendency
to colonise the territory and it is still
basically Chinese. The government under
the Japanese has been "orderly and
effeotive", but not "efficient or imagina-
tive". The economio development has been
satisfactory but may be criticized for
not inviting Chinese collaboration, and
the same may be said of the political
organization. As a test of the feasa-
bility of Sino-Japanese cooperation the
results have been negative.
04J

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
LEGATION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Nanking, September 12, 1935.
ne
Leased Territory.
The Honorable
For
V8
1o fir.!
The Secretary of State,
In US A
Washington, D. C.
COPIES SENT TO
894C.01/84
sir:
O.N.L ANDM.LD
1/
I have the honor to forward herewith a report on
the Kwantung Leased Territory which was prepared by Mr.
Vincent towards the end of his period of assignment as
Consul at Dairen and which, since his transfer to
Nanking, he has only recently had an opportunity to
complete.
Fal
Respectfully yours,
For the Minister:
Cm
George Atoheson, jrs,
Seoond Sooretary of Legation.
Enclosure:
1. Report, as stated.
In quintuplicate.
800
JOV:MCL
F/G

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
THE KWANTUNG LPASED TERRITORY
Thirty Years of Japanese Administration
John Carter Vinoent
American Consul
Dairen, 1932-35
Nanking, China, August 19, 1935.
Historical Introduotion
Nineteen hundred and thirty-five marks the thirtieth
year of Japanese administration of the Kwantung peninsula
(Kwantung Leased Territory). The peninsula, oocupied by
Chinese for centuries, first came into political promi-
nence in l894 when, at the conolusion of the Sino-Japanese
War, the Japanese demanded of China its cession as one of
the spoils of victory. However, certain European powers,
lead by Russia, compelled Japan to withdraw this terri-
torial olaim and acoept in lieu thereof an indemnity of
seven million taels. In 1898, Russia signed an agreement
with China leasing the Kwantung peninsula for a period of
25 years. In the Treaty of Portsmouth whioh ended the
Russo-Japanese War, Russia agreed, inter alia, to transfer
the lease to Japan subjeot to China's approval. China's
approval was obtained in a treaty signed in Peking, Decem-
ber 22, 1905. Sinoe that time the peninsula, called by
foreigners the "Kwantung Leased Territory" and by Japanese
"Kwantung Provinoe", has figured internationally only
twioe*. In l915, by the treaty resulting from Japan's
"Twenty-One Demands" China agreed, under conditions
whioh
*At the Washington Conferenoe there were discussions
of the naval base or station at Port Arthur. The
station was abolished in l922 and was reestablished
1n 1953.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
whioh it later desoribed as duress, to extend the term
of the lease to ninety-nine years, that is, to 1997;
and in 1923, China, refusing to recognize the validity
of the aforementioned treaty, requested the return of the
Territory in acoordanoe with the original 25 year lease
agreement. The Japanese refused the request.
Although the status of foreigners in the Territory
was subjeot to some confusion while the Russianswere in
oooupation, the foreign powers early agreed after the
Japanese assumed control, that Japan had full jurisdio-
tional and administrative authority and that their
nationals residing in the Territory were subjeot to Ja-
panese Law.
During the thirty years of oocupation, the Japanese
have been assiduous in developing the Territory. Much
treasure and energy have been expended to improve agrioul-
ture, oommunioations, and trade, to establish an efficient
administration, to provide educational facilities, to
develop industry, and to institute a system of modern
sanitation. It is the purpose of this study to examine
the character of the progress that has been made along
these and related lines. While the position oooupied by
the Japanese in the Kwantung Leased Territory is not
analogous to their position in "Manohukuo", there is
suffioient similarity to warrant the belief that a portray-
al of developments in the Territory will be of interest
and value in observing and endeavoring to appraise the
activities of the Japanese in "Manohukuo" and north China.
Government
With the surrender of the Russian fortress and naval
base at Port Arthur on January 2, 1905, the Japanese oame
1nto

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
into complete oontrol of the Kwantung peninsula. The
initial form of government was military, with a sub-
ordinate civil administration office at Dairen, establish-
ed in June, 1905. General Visoount Oshima was appointed
the first Governor General of the Kwantung Leased Terri-
tory in November of 1905, a position he held until 1912.
In September, 1906, the form of Administration was changed
from "Sotoku-fu" to "Totoku-fu" (the English translation
of both terms is Government General, and there is little
real differenoe in the meaning), consisting of two depart-
ments, military and oivil. The Governor General, an Army
offioer, remained the head of both departments but a
Chief of Civil Administration was in direot oharge of
civil affairs. This form continued until 19l9 when the
government general form was abolished and a civilian was
appointed Governor of Kwantung. An army general continued
of course to be Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army
Garrison at Port Arthur. After the Mukden inoident and
the oreation of "Manohukuo" in 1932 the Kwantung Govern-
ment was again placed under an army officer with the
appointment of General Muto to the three offices of
Governor of Kwantung, Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung
Army, and Ambassador to "Manchukuo", offices whioh were
subsequently held by General Hishikara. A thorough re-
organization of the Kwantung Government was made effeotive
on December 26, 1934, when General Minami entered upon
his duties as Commander-in-Chief of the Kwantung Army
and Ambassador to "Manohukuo". A oivilian was appointed
Governor of Kwantung Provinoe. He is responsible to the
Kwantung Bureau in Hsinohing which is in turn responsible
to

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
to the Ambassador to "Manohukuo". This reorganization
ushered in a new order whioh has in effeot considerably
modified the distinotion between Kwantung and Manchuria
proper through the virtual control of both by General
Minami. The form of administration desoribed in sub-
sequent paragraphs is that preceding the reorganization
although the reorganization aotually effeoted very little
change in the administrative form.
During the fifteen years from 1919 through 1934,
the Kwantung Government was organized in the following
manner. The central offices of the Government oomprised
the Governor's Seoretariate and three main bureaux for
Interior Affairs, Finance, and Police. Affiliated organ-
izations were the five Civil Administrations; the Law
Courts and Prisons; Communications and Marine bureaur;
Hospitals, Sohools, Experiment Stations, Museums, and
Libraries; Produce and Currenoy Exohanges; Opium Monopoly
Office; and others of minor importance.
Civil Administration
As their names imply, the aotual administration of
the Territory is oarried out by the five Civil Adminis-
tration offices.
The population whioh the Civil Administrators govern
1s predominently Chinese. In l906 there were in the
Territory 360,428 Chinese, 12,792 Japanese and 39 oco1-
dentals. At the beginning of 1934 these numbers had
inoreased to 853,621 Chinese, 137,114 Japanese, 2,340
Koreans, and 870 oocidentals, over fifty per cent of whioh
are Russians. The distribution of population according
to Civil Administration distriots 1s as follows:
Dairen

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Dairen
420,202
Port Arthur
138,602
Ch1nohow
122,545
Pulantien
161,784
Pitzuwo
150,822
Total
993,955
Praotioally all the foreigners live in Dairen and its
suburbs. Of the 137,114 Japanese, 132,069 live in
Dairen and Port Arthur, principally the former.
The Civil Administrators are the exeoutive heads of
the five distriots. They colleot tares, expend budget-
ary appropriations, control and regulate business, and
generally execute the Ordnances of the Kwantung Govern-
ment.
Dairen and Port Arthur have oity counoils, and
Mayors appointed by the Governor of Kwantung. The Dairen
city council has forty members, thirty-three Japanese
eleoted by the qualified residents of the city (to qualify
a person must be a Japanese male, 25 years of age, a
resident of the Territory for 2 years, and pay the "house
tax") and seven Chinese appointed by the Kwantung Govern-
ment. There are sixteen members of the Port Arthur city
counoil, 14 Japanese and two Chinese chosen in the same
manner as those at Dairen.
The Chinese are generally officials of Chinese
chambers of commeroe. Their presenoe on the counoils
1s for the purpose of providing the munioipal authorities
with a means of making their will known to the Chinese
residents rather than, as might be inferred, for the
representation of Chinese residents.
It is interesting to note that these two oity coun-
oils constitute the only evidenoe of self-government
among the Japanese in the Territory. All Kwantung
offioials

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
officials are appointed by the Japanese Government or by
the Kwantung Governor, and the Ordnanoes governing the
Territory are drawn up by the Kwantung Government subjeot,
of course, to the approval of the Japanese Government.
The city oounoils, although enjoying a fair degree of in-
dependence, are subject to control by the Civil Adminis-
trators. They prepare city budgets, levy taxes, expend
revenues, and adopt ordnances for the regulation of
municipal affairs. There are no city counoils in the
relatively large cities of Chinchow, Pulantien, and Pitzuwo
where the population is almost entirely Chinese.
For administrative purposes, the village and rural
areas of the Civil Administration districts are divided
into "hui" (the Chinese charucter is loosely employed to
designate a geographical subdivision us well as an associ-
ation). In the Dairen district there are 1l "hui"; in
Port Arthur, 6; in Pulantien, 18; in Chinchow, 14; and in
Pitzuwo, 20. The "hui" are further subdivided into "ohieh"
and "tun". The Civil Administrator appoints a "hui chang"
(association ohief), together with several clerks, as his
representative in each "hui". The "hui chang" is generally
but not neoessarily the village or community headman who
has been selected by the locel residents in accordance
with age-old Chinese custom. The "hui" remit tares direotly
to the Civil Administration offices and these offices in
turn make funds available to supplement the levies made
in each "hui" for education, policing and other looal ex-
penses. The Kwantung Government describes the "hui" as
self-governing units. This description is hardly correot
in view of the faot that the "hui chang" are responsible
to the Civil Administrator rather than to the looal
Chinose

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Chinese, and that provision for looal policing and education,
the two prinoipal undertakings for which taxes and levies
are spent, is made more or less compulsory by the Government
polioe and the Interior Bureau, respectively.
Polioing
The police of the Territory are under the control of
the Polioe Bureau. They are ubiquitous and, from the stand-
point of the average Chinese, omnipotent. The nearest
police station, of which there are hundreds throughout the
small Territory, constitutes almost the only contaot which
the Chinese have with Japanese governmental authority. It
1s to the police stations that the Chinese report concern-
ing their business, family status, et cetera, and it is
before them that they are arraigned for infractions of
the law and in cases of dispute.
If somewhat too much in evidence and offioious, the
polioe are nevertheless effective, as distinguished from
efficient. Their frequent and petty interference with
normal civilian affuirs is, particularly from the ooci-
dental viewpoint, unnecessary and irksome. However, the
close supervision which they keep over residents, parti-
cularly over the Chinese, probably reduces crime and
assists in the apprehension of criminals.
Justice
Besides the many police courts where, as a matter of
fact, the major portion of the cases involving Chinese
are handled, there is the Distriot Court sitting in Dairen
and the Supreme Court at Port Arthur. The latter is
divided into Appelate and Final depar tments. The introduo-
tion of the Japanese judicial system into the Territory
no doubt resulted in improvement in the machinery and
mothods

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-8
methods of meting out justioe. Nevertheless the system
contains cause for complaint and leaves room for improve
ment. Judges, unfamiliar with oocidental mental processes,
seem to enoounter diffioulty in interpreting Japanese law
modernized in aocordanoe wi th western systems. Further-
more, there is not a competent lawyer in the Territory.
And finally, foreigners are far from oconvinced of the
impartiality of the courts and hence avoid litigation if
possible when Japanese are involved. Chinese, feeling
the same, do likewise.
Eduoation
The educational system of the Territory inoludes,
for Japanese, 23 primary sohools, 5 high schools, one
vooational sohool, and the Port Arthur Engineering College;
and for Chinese, ll primary sohools maintained by the
Kwantung Government, 1l2 village primary sohools maintained
by the Chinese with some assistance from the Government,
and a high sohool at Port Arthur, a commeroial sohool at
Dairen, and an agricultural school at Chinohow. The
Chinese are also allowed to enter the Japanese middle
sohools but they represent less than 5 per cent of the
enrollment. In both the primary and middle sohools, the
Chinese are required to study Japanese.
There are over 20,000 Japanese children studying in
primary sohools and about 4,500 enrolled in middle sohools.
The Kwantung Government estimates that the 26,000 Chinese
children in primary sohools represent 27 per cent of the
ohildren of primary sohool age (6 to 11). There are
slightly more than 600 Chinese entered in Chinese seoond-
ary sohools and about 200 in secondary Japanese sohools.
Eroept for higher education, whioh most Japanese
prefer

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
-9
prefer to take in Japan, the eduoational faoilities for
Japanese are more than adequate. Faoilities for the
Chinese are poor in oomparison with western and Japanese
standards, but in the primary grades they compare favor-
ably with the best in China.
The Kwantung Government is spending about 2 million
yen a year on education in the Territory.
Sanitation and Health
That the Japanese have, through intelligent and
thorough measures, made the Kwantung Leased Territory the
most hygienio area on the Asiatic mainland can hardly be
questioned. The city water is free from contamination,
an Hygienio Institute and the hospitals oarry on preventive
and ourative work with respeot to contagious diseases both
among human beings and animals, dootors are stationed in
the rural distriots to supervise health measures and give
medical attention and advice, the Marine Office of the
Kwantung Government enforoes quarantine at the various
ports, and a speoial department of the Government adminis-
ters regulations with respeot to home sanitation, sewage,
slaughter houses, markets, dairies, et cetera.
There are modern, well-staffed hospitals in Dairen
and Port Arthur whioh give virtually free medioal attention
to the poor; there are speoial isolation hospitals for
the treatment of infeotious and contagious diseases, and
there 1s a large hospital devoted to the treatment of
tuberoulosis patients.
Narootios Control
By a Kwantung Government Ordnanoe issued in l924, 1t
was made necessary to obtain the permission of the
Governor

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
Governor to import, export, mamifaoture, sell, or smoke
opium. In 1928, the Kwantung Opium Monopoly Bureau was
established and placed in complete control of the impor-
tation, exportation, distribution and use of narootio
drugs. At the same time an institute for the treatment of
opium and drug addiots was established. The Bureau im-
ports opium, distributes it to authorized dealers and issues
lioenses to smokers.
The purpose of the Ordnance of 1924 and of the Mono-
poly Bureau was to reduce the use of drugs, particularly
opium, in the Territory. In this the Government would
appear to have fa1led for authoritative roports in l930
indioated that not only had the amount of opium imported
inoreased substantially during the previous six years but
that the per oapita consumption in the Territory had also
inoreased. As a means of revenue, however, the Monopoly
would seem to have been a decided suocess, for the same
source estimated in 1930 that the net proceeds from the
sale of opium represented over 15 per cent of the total
income of the Government. The Kwantung Government shows
1n its budget for l934 an expenditure of over two million
yen by the Monopoly Bureau and an inoome of lo) million
yen under an aocount entitled "Monopoly and Government
owmed property revenue".
In preventing the importation and manufaoture of
narootios other than opium, the authorities have not been
over zealous. This statement applies particularly to the
manufaoture of morphine and kindred drugs. Illioit manu-
faoturing plants are brought to the attention of the
polioe only through the acoident of fire with suoh fre-
quenoy as to cause a suspicion of intentional lamess.
Th

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
The fact that those operating suoh plants are often second
and third offenders inoreases this suspicion. Furthermore,
the mildnoss of punishments (50 yen fine and five months
imprisonment are above average) act as no deterrant to
those engaged in the illicit trade.
Government Finanoes
The expenditures of the Kwantung Government during the
28 years ended 1935 have averaged somewhat over 12 million
yen annually. However, expenditures in 1933 amounted to
26 million yen and in 1934 to 23 million yen. During this
28 year period, 30 per cent of the Government's inoome has
been derived from grants from the Japanese Treasury.
The budget for the fisoal year, April 1, 1934, to
Maroh 31, 1935, is given below as it is typical of those
for the past few years:
Kwantung Government Budget 1934-35
REVENUE
Ordinary Acoount
Taxes
Yen 4,233,970
Monopoly and government-owned
10,585,545
property revenue
Stamp revenue
715,014
Misoellaneous revenue
1"
544.521
Yen 16,079,050
Extraordinary Account
Sales of government-owned properties Yen
367,219
Subsidy (Japanese Government)
n
4,000,000
Surplus oarried from previous year
n
2.464.789
6,832,008
Total Revenue
Yen 22.911.058
EXPENDITURES
Ordinary Acoount
Kwantung Government
Yen 1,497,877
Courts and Prisons
1n
506,987
Police
11
4,180,555
Education
2,097,431
Enoouragement of industries
325,707
Monopoly Bureau
2,122,049
Communioations
n
2,778,888
Marine

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
Marine Office
Yen
186,314
Hospitals
n
134,828
Land and House rent
n
137,801
Prevention of infeotious disease
n
35,254
Fund for readjustment of loans
n
652,669
Pensions
n
994,890
Misoellanoous
74,705
Reserve
n
300,000
Yen 16,025,355
Extraordinary Aocount
(of whioh half is for unitemized
expenditures in Manchuria and
25% 1s for special expenditures
for the police)
Yen 6,885,703
Total Expenditures
Yen 82.911.058
Items whioh invite attention are (1) the relatively small
amount of revenue that is obtained through taxation, (2)
the large proceeds from the sale of opium (a major portion
of the amount inoluded under the heading, "Monopoly and
Government owned property revenue", is understood to come
from the Opium Monopoly Bureau), (3) the subsidy from the
Japanese Government, (4) the disproportionately large
amount expended on the police both in the ordinary and
the extraordinary accounts and (5) the large proportion
(one half) of the "Extraordinury Acoount" expended in
Manchuria. The expenditures made in Lianohuria, inoluding
the amount spent by the Kwantung Government to maintain
police in the South Lianohuria Railway areas, may be cited
as a reason for the grant fr om the Japanese Government
sinoe the Kwantung Government itself derives no revenue
from Manohuria as compensation for expenditures there.
Taxation
Kwantung Government taxes are assessed and oolleoted
by the various oivil administrators. In the fisoal year
1932 the following taxes mere oolleoted:
Land

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
Land tax
Yen
216,066
Salt tax
424,609
Income tax
1n
305,613
Erohange Business tax
n
14,865
Bargain tax
25,589
Liquor
1n
527,398
Tobaooo tax
n
858.661
Total
Yen 2,362,801
Local Taxes:
Business tax
Yen 1,142,743
Misoellaneous tares
1"
678.366
Total
Yen 1,821,109
Grand Total
Yen 4.183.910
The land tax on average holdings is Yen O.20 per mou
(about one sixth of an acre). The salt tax is a small
duty on imports and exports of non-Japanese salt. The
liquor tax is understood to average less than ten per cent
ad valorem and the tobaoco tax to average about 40 per
cent ad valorem. The inoome tax, as the figure above
would seem to indioate, is collected on a very low percent-
age basis whioh even for large inoomes is understood not to
exceed five per cent. The business tax, colleoted from
companies, is computed by a nebulous system of caloulation
involving oapitalization, annual turnover, expenditures,
and general reputation.
The munioipalities of Dairen and Port Arthur also
oolleot taxes, the prinoipal one being a business and
house tax. This tax is similar in amount and manner of
assessment to the Kwantung Government tax, the ohief differ-
ence being that heads of households as well as companies
pay it. The annual amount varies between Yen 40,000 and
Yen l.80, paid by the poorest householder.
Taxation in the Territory is not burdensome even
though the manner of arriving at individual rates is, par-
tieularly from the foreign point of view, irritatingly
unsoientific, resulting in pronounoed inequalities among
firms

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-14
firms of equal financial standing in the oase or the busi-
ness taxes, and in confusion with respeot to the income
tax.
The Kwantung Government estimates that the average
annual amount of tar paid by Japanese households is Yen 49
and that the average amount paid by Chinese is Yen 7.
Communioations
After the conolusion of the Russo-Japanese War, the
Japanese rebuilt the railways connecting Dairen and Port
Arthur with Manohuria proper. There are now in the Terri-
tory l7o miles of railway, divided into the following lines:
South Manohuria Railway mainline, Dairen to the border of
the Territory, 65 miles, and thenoe to Mukden and Hsin-
ching; Chinohow-Pitzuwo line, 63 miles (conneots at Chin-
chow with the South Manchuria Railway); Port Arthur branch
line, 31 miles; and ll miles of conneoting railway. The
South Manohuria Railway Company owms all the railways
except that from Chinohow to Pitzuwo, and has a controlling
interest in it. All of the railways are efficiently
operated.
The South Manohuria Railway Company maintains a large,
modern workshop in Dairen, employing 4,400 men, and equipped
to manufaoture looomotives and oars as well as to keep in
repair the Company's 10,000 pieces of rolling stook.
Exolusive of oity streets, there are now approximately
loo miles of good roads in the Territory, mostly macadam-
ized, where as in 1905 there were virtually no roads. . Two
roads run between Dairen and Port Arthur and another from
Dairen to Pulantien. Regular bus servioes are maintained
on these highways.
Kleotrio

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
-15
Eleotrio tramways operate efficiently in Dairen and
the nearby suburbs.
At the Choushuitse airdrome (near Dairen) planes of
the Japan and the Manohuria air transport companies arrive
and depart daily. The former conneot with Japan via
Korea, and the latter with the principal cities of Man-
ohuria. Most of the planes are small, two or three seaters.
The servioe does not measure up to western standards.
Until the organization of the Manohuria Telephone and
Telegraph Company in 1933, the Kwantung Governmont Bureau
of Communioations controlled the Japanese postal, tele-
graph, telephone, and radio services in the Territory and
Manohuria. Now only the post offioes are under the Kwan-
tung Government, telephone, telegraph, and radio communioa-
tions in all of Manchuria having been unified under the
aforementioned official company. The radio and telegraph
servioes throughout Manchuria, including Kwantung, are
operated with marked efficienoy. The automatic telephone
service in the Territory is satisfaotory but the manage-
ment is deserving of oritioiam for its failure to expand
the physical equipment, a failure whioh foroes new sub-
soribers to pay as high as 8o0 yen for a telephone. The
postal service is not altogether satisfaotory. Mails are
handled t rdily, sometimes distressingly so, and they
frequently show signs of having been tampered with by in-
quisitive police deteotives attaohed to the main post
offioes.
Agrioulture
The Japanese have spent considerable sums of money
and done muoh to inorease agrioultural produotion in the
Territory. In l906 an agrioultural experiment station
was

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
was established at Chinohow. The experiments of this
station have resulted in the improvement offarming methods,
in an inorease in the quality and quantity of produotion,
and in the introduction of new orops. The following sta-
tistios giving the size of principal cereal harvests in
1906 and 1932 evidence the growth in produotion:
1906
1932
bushels
Indian corn (maize)
1,330,700
5,530,700
Soybeans
276,300
768,135
Millot
338,900
1,184,545
Kaoliang (sorghum)
88,800
1,115,165
Wheat
17,800
55,065
Rioe
22,200
53,210
Peanuts
6,000
5,836,135
Green peas and beans
45,100
152,480
In 1906, about 175,000 acres planted to cereals produoed
roughly 2,250,000 bushels:- 13 bushels to the aore.
In 1932, the produotion of 658,091 aores was 14,923,120
bushels:- 22 bushels to the aore. After making allowance
for the probability that the l906 figures were based on
inoomplete data, the inorease per aore is still impressive.
From the standpoint of this report, the most interest-
ing orop listed above is peanuts. This orop today is the
chief money crop of the Territory, over 13 million yen
worth of peanuts having been exported from Dairen in 1934.
With the growth of population, partioularly in the
oities, the produotion of vegetables has increased remark-
ably. In 1932 from 276,201 aores planted there were har-
vested about 240 million pounds of vegetables. The most
important are turnips, Chinese cabbage, and sweet potatoes.
The Japenese have been aotive in introduoing fruit
orohards into the Territory with the result that apples
now are an important export commodity, and peaohes, pears,
cherries, and grapes are grown in considerable quantities.
In

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
In 1932, 12,691 aores planted 1n fruit trees produoed 22
million pounds of fruit.
The Japanese have attempted to introduoe cotton
oultivation into the Territory with but meagre success.
They have spent muoh money on experimentation and on in-
duoements to farmers and yet 2,222 aores produced only 530
thousand pounds of inferior ootton in 1932.
Attempts also to introduoe serioulture have not been
attended with any marked degree of suooess. The work 1s
direoted by the Sericulture Experiment Station. In l932,
2,445 pounds of silk cocoons were produced on 741 aores
of mulberry trees.
Ninety per oent of the farming land in the Territory
1s owned by the Chinese or held by them from the Govern-
ment on leases whioh to all intents and purposes amount to
owmership. The other ten per cent is held by Japanese
engaged primarily in fruit farming and to a minor extent
in serioulture, truck gardening, and poultry raising.
However, even on the Japanese ferms the farming is done
largely by Chinese. There are probably not a hundred
Japanese farmers in the Territory. This failure of the
Japanese to settle on the land in the Kwantung Territory
is interesting in conneotion with the presont attempts to
induoe Japanese to farm in north Manohuria where olimatio
and other conditions are less congenial than in the
Territory.
Forestation
When the Japanese took over control, the Kwantung
Territory was virtually denuded of trees. They immediately
attaoked the problem of reforestation. Nurseries were
established

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
established, trees were planted on publio lands and Chinese
were enoouraged to plant trees on their farms. The total
number planted over the period of 30 years amounts to
several millions, with the result that there are now about
l90 thousand acres of forested land in the Territory as
compared witr less than 8 thousand aores in 1905. Up to
1933, the Japanese had spent a total of Yen 2,130,000 on
forestation.
Stook Raising
Attaohed to the Agricultural Experimental Station is
a stook breeding farm whioh devotes itself to the introduo-
tion and improvement of live stook. Imported hogs, horses,
cows, and sheep are crossed with native animals and these
improved breeds are introduoed onto the farms.
Fishing
Fishing is an important occupation and source of in-
come in the Territory. There are about 18,O00 Chinese and
450 Japanese thus employed. It is interesting to note
however that of the annual catoh valued at 4 million yen,
the relatively few Japanese fishers aocount for almost half.
This is due to the fact that the Japanese use large motor
boats whioh operate over a wider and no doubt more productive
area than the small Chinese boats. It is striking instance
of the handioap under which the Chinese work through laok
of equipment.
The catoh inoludes sea bream (tai), prawns, flounder,
mackeral, mullet, shell-fish, ood, hair-tail, rays, "guohi"
fish, et oetera. Salted and dried ood, hair-tail, und
rays are exported to China.
Salt Refining
Having 1ts beginning over seventy years ago, the
production

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
produotion of salt from sea salt fields has, under Japanese
organization, become one of the most important industries in
the Territory. During the past twenty years the area of
salt f1elds has expanded from 3,500 to over 17,000daeres.
The average annual production in recent years has been 550
million pounds, of which 80 per cent is from Japanese owmed
fields and the rest from Chinese fields. Most of the salt
produood in the Territory is exported to Japan and Korea.
In 1933, the Kwantung Government established an -
perimental Station for the Manufacture of Salt. The pur-
poses of this Station are understood to be twofold: to
carry on experiments for the purpose of increasing and im-
proving salt produotion, und to formulate plans for the
local utilization of Kwantung salt for industrial purposes.
The Kwantung Government estimates that the area of salt
fields could be expanded to over 24 million acres and that
annual production could be increased to 2 billion pounds.
This would allow for the produotion of industrial salts in
Dairen plants without curtailment of the present exports.
Industrial Development
From a city whioh in 1905 contained only a few native
factories, Dairen has developed into an important industrial
center. This industrial development has bon the result
largely of Japanese enterprise and investment, assisted of
course by an industrious Chinese population and by the posi-
tion of Dairen at the gateway of the produotive Manohurian
hinterland.
In 1932 there were, large and small, about 500 indus-
trial establishments in the Territory capitalized at 236
million yen. The value of produotion in that year was 80
m11l1on

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
million yen. The number of employment days totaled 13
million, of whioh Chinese employees accounted for llt
million and Japanese for lt million.
Soya bean oil milling is by far the largest industry
in the Territory; so large in fact that the produotion of
the 55 mills represents in value over two-thirds of the
total industrial produotion of the Territory. Japanese
and Chinese are both interested in the industry but the
most productive and modern mills are owned by Japanese
corporations.
Other industrial enterprises worthy of note are cotton
yarn mills, gunny bag factories, paint and cement plants,
glass faotories, tanneries, saw mills and wood working shops,
maohine shops, and briok kilns. The large South Manchuria
Railway Company locomotive and car shop has been mentioned
in an earlier section, and there are of course the eleotrio
light plants and gas works.
Reoently there have been ereoted at Kanchingtsu, near
Dairen, a ohemical plant and an oil refinery, both of which
are commenoing production this year. In the same area
there has also been built a new power plant. The chemioal
plant, operated by the Manohuria Chemical Industries,
Limited, is equipped to produce sulphate of ammonia and
certain nitrates and will be expanded to produoe other
industrial ohemicals. The Manohuria Oil Company's new
refinery is estimated to have an annual capacity of around
10 million gallons of refined produots a year.
Foreign Trade
The foreign trade of Dairen has grown by leaps and
bounds during the past thirty years until now the oity is
one of the foremost ports of the Far East. The growth has
naturally

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
21
naturally been due in the main to agricultural expansion
in Manohuria but development of the Territory has had some
share. The Kwantung Government places the total value of
foreign trade in 1934 at somewhat over 800 million yen
(about 250 million dollars), of whioh 470 million were in
imports and 330 in exports. The exports are of course
largely the produce of interior Manohuria and a very large
proportion of the imports are destined for Manohuria.
Soya beans, beancake, and beanoil make up well over
half of the exports. Other exports of importance are
peanuts, salt, cotton yarn, and cement. These artioles,
as well as the beancake and beanoil, are produots of the
Territory. Prinoipal products of Manohuria which are ex-
ported through Dairen are soya beans, coal, iron, perilla
and hemp seeds, red and white beans, furs and skins, and
kaoliang (sorghum).
Charaoteristic imports into Dairen are cotton and
ootton manufactures; iron and steel, petroleum produots,
wheat flour; railway materials and rolling stock; auto-
motive vehioles; machinery; timber, tobacco, sugar, paper,
and gunny bags. Whereas formerly consumption goods such
as cotton oloth, tobaoco, wheat flour, et cetera comprised
the bulk of the imports, during recent years steel, rail-
and
way materials, timber, maohinery,/motor vehioles have taken
the lead due very largely to investments by the South Man-
churia Railway Company and affiliated organizations.
About half of the exports are destined for Japan, and
two thirds of the imports are Japanese. Amerioa, Europe
and China share the remaining one third of the imports, and
Europe and China take most of the other half of the exports.
The

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
The harbour feeilities of Dairen are exeellent. The
work of wherf construetion in the Territory was early en-
Railway
trusted to the South Mamohuria/Oompany and the Company
through the years improved and extended Dairen's naturally
good harbour until now it is capable of handling l0,000
tons of eargo e year. Ekelusive of small sailing ships,
appremimately 4,750 vessels enter the harbour annually.
Besides the mumerous piers at Dairen, there is at Kanohing-
tsa, mear Dairem, a large pier with the most modern load-
ing equipmemt. Port Arthur is unimportant as a commercial
port, there being only about l75 steem vessels entering
the harbour annually. The best seetion of the harbour is
set aside for the Japanese navy mhich maintains a mall
base there.
Conelusione
From their thirty years ocoupation of the Xwantung
Leased Territory what may be learmed of the Japanese as
colonisers and colomial administrators? Also, at this
time when the Japamese are making a determined bid for
control of China, what may be learned, taking the situation
in the Territory as an exemple, concerning Sino-Japanese
cooperation?
In the real sense of the term there has been little
Japanese colonization in the Territory despite the inorease
in their numbers from 12 to 137 thousand sinee 1905. The
larger portion of these Japanese are employed by or are
indireetly dependent upon the Government and the semi-
offieial South Mamehuria Railway Company or their affiliat-
ed organizatioms, and are in the Territory for only limited
mriele.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
88
periods. The same may also be said of the mployees of
the large Japanese commercial concerns. There has been no
settlment on the land and little other ovidence or in-
tention to reside permanently in the Territory. Almost
to a man, the Japanese plan and expect to return sooner or
later to Japan. The Kwantung peninsula, after thirty
years of alion rule, remains basioally Chinese.
The oolonial administration, in its governmental,
social, and eoonomio aspeots has been examined in the pre-
oeeding seotions of the report. Orderly government, good
oommunioations, and a decided emphasis on military matters
have caused the Japenese to be referred to at times as the
Romans of the Far East. This appellation is especially
apt in the Kwantung Leased Territory. The government has
been orderly and effective. It has not however been par-
tioularly efficient or imaginative. As evidenoes of in-
effioienoy may be oited (1) bureauoratic and over-staffed
offioes, (2) a budget whioh is balanood only by virtue of
large anmual grants from Japan, (S) unsystemetie taxation,
and taxes whieh, oonsidering the relative wealth of the
area, are too low, (4) a polioe force too numerous and too
authoritative, and (5) courts whioh the Japanese admit are
incompetent and foreigners critieise as partial. As evi-
demoes of a laok of imagination may be oited (1) a failure
to adapt Japanese methods of govermment to local conditions,
(2) a failure to make the Kwantung Govermment represemta-
tive to some degree of the resident Japanese, a faet which
may account for the absemce among these Japamese of a
feeling of identity with the Tarritory, and (3) a failure
血

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
一4
to emcourage Chinese participation in the govermemt.
The social work of the administration, as evidenoed
partioularly in the edueational and hygienic fields, has
beem praiseworthy. The operations of the Opium Monopoly
Bureau and the attompts generally to suppress the manu-
facture and male of narootio drugs heve not, on the other
hand, been attended by the success that might have been
oxpeotod.
The economio development of the Territory has in the
main been creditable. The meagre natural resouroes of the
aree have been wisely exploited. Agrioulturel improvement
and expension heve been fostered, cotton plantation being
the only venture that hes met with failure. Trade has
flourished, having been given a good system of land oom-
munications and good harbour faoilities. Industries have
been enoouraged and, while many of them lean heavily on
what smounts to government support through the South Man-
churia Railway Company, the basis on which they are founded
is generally sound. But in coonomic development, as noted
with respect to the governmemt, the failure to invite
Chinese collaboration invites oritioim. The Chinese are
for the most part the agriculturalists, labourers, and
mall traders of the Territory. However, it is reliably
estimated that there is more Chinese than Japanose liquid
oapital in Dairen. And yet, although theoretioally open
to Chinese investment, the South Manchuria Railway Company,
the large publio utility corporations, and many of the in-
dustrial undertakings have never enoouraged Chinese invest-
mamt and have, practioally speaking, never received any.
4

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
-25
Had the Chinese been attrasted into these organizations, it
1s quite possible that such collaboration might gradually
have lod to responsible and aévantageous Chinose partioi-
pation im the governmm t.
What then may be said of Sino-Japanose cooperation?
It has beem noted that the Chinese, representing over eighty
per cent of the populatiom, have not been represented to
any material degree in the administration or eoomomio do-
velopment of the Territory. Have the Japanese determined
that colleboration is impractioal or simply undesirable;
or have the Chinese rejected it as unoongenialf
The difri-
oulty whioh the Chinese find in oooperating, even among
themeelves, is well known; but so also are the rigidity of
form and national oonoiousness whioh charaoterizes Japanese
offioial and business activities. Attempted collaboration
may not, so be sure, have been able to surmount these handi-
caps, but it is important to note that there is no evidenoe
that the Japanese, upon whom the initiative necesaarily
rested, ever made the attempt.
The Kwantung Leased Territory might have been during
the past thirty years the laboratory for testing the
feasability of Sino-Japanese cooperation. Perhaps, un-
wittingly, it has beem. If so the result has been nege-
tive. There has beem virtually no oooperation and the mass
of the Chimese, who inoidentally have bemefited from the
Japanese administration, dislike the Japanese, and the
Japamese, suspicious, unimagimative, and olammish, have
kept their government and works to themeelves.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.85)
LIDEX
2020
Misterieal Intreduetion .....
2
Govermment
2
Civil Admimistration
Pelieing
Justice
Mucetion
Sanitation and Health
Mareeties Centrol
Gevernment Finenees.
Tammtion
.18
Gommmnicetions
. 14
Agriculture
. 15
Ferestation
.17
Steek Raising
Fishing
Salt Berining
Industrial Develepment
. 10
Foreiga Trade ..
Csmelusions
22
Ia quiatuplieate to Bepertment
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Cepy to Ceasulate Gemeral, Herbin
800
JOV:M01

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 15, 193B.
M.A
Dairen's despatch of Dec. 11, 198,
disousses changes that have taken lace in
recent years in the Kwan tung Leased Terri-
tory. Mr. Gru mon finds all territorial
autonomy gone with the transfer (in 132)
of the government of the territory to the
Japanese Embassy at is inkin. The same loss
of local initiative and activity is seen in
the S. M. R. Co. as a result of successive
"reforms" to its structure. On the other
hand, the economic life of the territory and
civio progress of vairen have boomed in the
2
same period. Dairen's trade volume now ex-
ceeds Shanghai's. The now Korean orts have
not affected the volume of c r o ha.:led by
Dairen. The transfer of the territorial ad-
 ministrative offices from lort .rt ur to
Dairen has added to the buildin: activity
of Dairen. A plan on f ot coniem lates the
inclusion of cert in outlyin vil a es vi thin
the Dairen minicinal area, w. ich wil ..ake
Dairen a city of over half a mil i n.
Mr. Grunmon cails attention to t..e
Ereater security to be feund in ba  en than
elsewhere in anchuria. le says foreig.ers
enjoy the same protection from ruffianly in-
cidents a Ju anese, and illustrates his
point by quoting a statment mate to him by
a missionary from further orth in nchuria
that "you can brush un aguins: a Jranese by
accident in wairen without cettin vour face
slapped or bein p shed ff te sidewlk".

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
While Chine se enjoy reater sec rity
in the Territory than elsewhere in n ch uria,
their present condition, after 33 vears of
Japanese rule,is inlicative of what is in
store for Chinese in other con erec areas.
In the Territory today not a single chinese
is allowed to attain a position of distinc-
tion. uf 40 municipal councilors in airen,
only 8 are Chinese and these are ap oint ed
from above, not elected as are the o  er 32
Japanese councilors. in tne .. Co. there
is not a sin le hinese who is an ofricer of
the Company. ?
WRL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.89)
OFFICE OF THE A
Copy for Department
1938
INTERNATIONAL
MAR-
OF T
STSOPARTCA
Amerioam Comsulate, Dairen, Wamehurie, pecember 1l, l937.
in FE
ford
las
2940.01
BUBJECT:
Reeent Changes in the
Wt
694c.
The Henerable
h c. Grow,
55
3
3940.01/35
EOEIVEO
Tokyo, Japrn.
7
7
L
During the pest three yeare the status of the
antung Leased Territory has sradus lly chaased.
It 1s both politioally Lese important und econom-
teelly more important than prior thereto.
011-
tically beczuse polioy in nurt, ac u ng that
relating to the wantuns used orritory, e b
come increesingly centralized in sinkine under the
control of the "yanohukuo" povernmont, tht ls to
aoy, the weatung Army. adxinistrutive mttere
previously cecided in ort Artuur are therefore more
and core  utomaticelly referred to sinkine, and the
locel coverngent tonds to become constantiy more
olericul in its funotions, nd losn exeoutive. The
surrender of Its independeno by the overnment of the
antung eased Territory, foilowin. the amelgamation
or dll military and oivil power i the hands of the
Jupanese Ambessndor to sinking in 19az, uas reduoed
the
11

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.90)
● 8 -
the stathe of the noverner er the wantunr territery
to that of = bureuu cnief, who takes nis orders ox-
•lusively from the wastuneg Pureau it sin ing and
dares met move exeept within narrew bounds witrout
cemeulting the Xwantung Army. The Vyrine . olice.
the commualontione Fure t, the courts or rustice, and
the Gondarmerle of tnls Territory  ow co pletely
divoreed tro the eutor!t or the ovor  my
omly affeot their policy, if t Il, t n rponl to
the cormender of theun.
these weeping restrictioin o. i t or ty r un-
important owever comporeiitepl 1
order yo. f3 of the upurt out or c yo of sl  ing
dated October B. 1957', whiob introduced ts ovel
feature of a allegedly independent state (Manehukuo")
Legislatins fer territory (the wantune ensed rerritory
outside its jurisdietiom.
A mall imeident of interest to report in this con-
meetion is that the Dairen os:ital, the iargest nospital
Ln Manonuria, originrlly ereeted by the outh anchuria
Railway compszry but now operated, et loost in part, by
the mumieipelity of Deiren, earries on ite stetiomery
in engliah the followins Legend "Dairen ospital, Duiren,
(Japan), Manohoukuo".
Eeonomiclly, as far as poliey is coneermed, the
seme eentralizing tendency has been observeble, sinee
the prineipel Japamese ergan in Mamehuria for thirty
years, the south Mamehuria Railway Company, with heed-
amrtor0
*see wakden's dospateh ef esteber ss, 1909, emelesure mo. S.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.87)
- 3 -
quarters in D iren, nus ls, lost its independenee as
a result of sucoessive "reforme" of the oumpuny's
struoture woicn nve gradually shorn it of its former
autonomy.
The choioe of r. 'mtauoke by the wantung
Army as the resident or the outh enchurle ellway
compeny, whet er becsuse it belleved hin pliable to
Ite dorands or alredy inbued wit Ite owliftery
ambitlone, prutubly ta L.tt,  ton justified by
nis aoguiescenee, without ore l o. itu stru Le.
in lomends of the iakine over out for the full
control or the outh ncluril y ompcay's policy
and purse, in complete ierr of  iat rrts of its
stockholdere.
r. tauoka  recont up lntment to the
Japanese "Brein Trust, under pr stt cn ftions in Japen.
would ses to oe a  urttr do l ir  iu or une trust re-
pooed inl  the air.
Itougn the ustsu rarritory  thu lost
all independeuce of puilcy, Its cc u mlo ire und civie
progreas bave levelosed consr louousl, l the period
unuer review.
s of interest in t is c nnection, the
oo ap live poeitlo in the r st of the port of iren,
is indic teu b te toliowinr t ole w tch ahow, s moou-
ratoly s possible fre st tistics v.Il tle uere, how
Iren hts risen wite respeet t ve v ue of ito forelgn
trade frou firtn ul.ce 1n leso to fourtu, in lo37, out-
ronking hh1 1u the Ltter your.
YObO

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.90)
1 9 3 5
IMJORTS
XPORTS
Total
xobe
F821,641,000
¥910,899.000
￥1,732,540,000
Tokokems
616,588,000
626,017,000
1,242,605,000
0seke
546,750,000
680,143,000
1,166,893,000
shanghe1
525,405,000
300,270,000
825,673,000
Dairon
464,375,000
315,371,000
779,746.000
Tientsin
88,566,000
94,850,000
183,416,000
1 9 3 6
DMPORTS
XTORTS
rotal
RObe
¥958,220,000
970.784.000
004.200
Tokohaua
687.01z,200
678,323.000
Osaka
595.864,000
672.233.000
1,265.497,000
Dairen
626.201,000
442.699.000
968.900.000
shangha1
575,219,000
375,857.000
951,0765000
Tientsin
75.563.000
122.559,000
198.092,000
The bigh preszure indurtrtalization or Yanonuria
has of course redounded to the benerit or this city, whioh,
on the average, handlee 75 per cont of toe foreign trade
of Yanohuria.
ns of Inter st in t is connention, the
following tuble showe the tot  foreien tr de of venchu-
rim throuen all porte duri tu  at six vaars, as well
as dorin the riret nine mo t e of le7, in "Manchukuo" yuan:
1932
HY
958.830,000
1933
904,310,000
1934
1,041,988.000
1935
1.020.227.000
1936
1,£94,648,000
1937
1.084459.000
(Jan.- ept.
while the devaloument o t gew north orean porte
he taken some trde froire, tle he been larrely
of an erriculture an
turend the rult of
obvlous advantag fro the at nd int of Tapan, in the
ratlonelizetion of the tr srortation syata of Yanchuria,
permitting an outlot for crops fro the northeesterm areas
30

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.89)
- 8 -
t∞  by mhorter haul to the north oreem ports, and
military mupplies und c vipment to be brought from Japen
more expeditiously nd with ore seorecy to the north of
Manohurie then through tren.
rolitioslly the moet outst nain, Loc i vent in the
wantung Territory durins tne pe: fod under review as
been the trnsfer to  1ren on y 1, 1937 of the seat
of covernment fro  ort  rthur, where it h e been for
over thirty yeere followinr the tofe t of musslr und
the tuy lae over or thia urrirory by   ne The tr as
Fer wes a loele l ster 1n vi or the r tive unt mortenoe
of ort rtour, xoert for y 1torie 1 nd s ati
montal reucons, nd te r. ter r c!llty ror transacting
offiolel business botitu ine ae oryo, from
Dairen as the seat of govern unt.
As a rosult or this pollticul cl ns, the center of
the eity of Duiren formerly 1: the fre:t 1rcle (ohtroba!
as plonned by the Russlone, ls greduelly ahirting west-
ward wit? the construotion of the new "wantung covernment
building ubout he lf-way between the chirobe end the remort
town of oshigaura, five ciles away.
his is now the
goverwment center. The pistriot Court building hes been
there for several yeurs, and mouses for sovernsent ofri-
cors and employees are beins construoted in that neighbor-
hood. About midway between the Great circle amd the new
government aree, a modern husiness center has grown up
aroumd the Chein Store lock (eemprising twe eity blocks
二
"Dairen cemsulate's commniestiem te Rabassy, Tokye, dated
Nareh 18, 1935.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
- ● -
of sheps and businesses eooperetively housed). Oppe-
site this block on e large plet whlo: has long laim
iale have now been constructed the rodern five-story
depertrent store of 1tsukoshi (a branch of the lurge
tokye fir of the sume name), nd b or or it the new
Dairen unieipal city .arket wnic? is to be opened within
the week.
The mrket, * lerge thiree story structure
with apartments above, 1s se1d to v cost 750,000 yen.
Ad jscent to this now bneiness "r" 1a tho new "airen
station completed lasty.
prorted cost of ne ly
three 1llion yon, the coreer  of  or ws lold
neerly three yesre ago.
he s: tie 1sn luposing
modorn ediriee, the banusomest st tion, nd certainly
o of the finest buil ins, i: nchurie. It hes
14.c00.were te. of sp c de ub 1e re
ception rooms, beths, srope, t cetere.
he old nairen
inrket between it and the new bus'ness coater ls to be
razed to provide a specious ;laza.
n otr bulliing
finished nbout e yrer ego js also wort y of note, - the
six story Toteku wuilding ocourying on of the two large
Lots surroundine the centrsl Ircle, w 1c, heve been
veount since the Russian daye.
he "otaku Auilding
while a bex-like strueture of undistin  jahed aroh1-
tecture 1s an impressive ndditio: to tho centar of the
city becnuse of ite size. Peing the only modern ofrice
building in neiren, 1t now ouses v of the oat 1m-
portant Tapanese and forein firs.
The rereining
large gep In the irele, dol  te present consulate
bulldins, is to be occupled b tno prujected airon
Chamber

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.94)
- 7 -
chember ef commerce, whien it is reported will be also
six steries in height and will cest a million yen. Its
comstrmetien which was announced to begin last ugust
has been delayed by the hostilities in china.
Imdieative of the self-consciousness of neiren
es e modern eity and its endeavor to live up to that
role, is its reeently cone uded plun to double the
manicipal aree by the 1nelusion or many suburban plaees
1neluding the Rokotan, Reizan, eizan, busuiton, shukaton,
Fogeiton, Nensanton, and shusuishi distriots.
1ththe
ineorporation of the new areas the populution of ciren
will reaeh balr a millien. hen one reelizes thet the
bulk of the south Manohurie Railway ompeny employees
hes been transferred to anchurie and that iuportent
loeel firms such as the Jepen "ourist nureeu end :okusal
Unyu have removed their headquertera fro  iren to
ukden or Heinking this would be e uiv lent to a praoticel
doubling of population s1nen 193z.
It might be said in connection witr: c dlsoussion
of the present stetus of this eren that personal seeurity
in Deiren is deoidedly better than thet obtrininz in other
oitiee in Manchurla. Law and order re strictly mein-
tainod and chinose and foreisners here enjoy in the main
immumity fro the ruffienly incidents thet ure commonly
reported in other anohurimn cities, where Tapanese con-
trel is only recent and where frontier types of spanese
are frequently over-bearing and brutal in tneir troatment
of Chinese, und intolerably rude on oecasions to "uropeans.
This difference of atmos here may be well summerised by

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
● 8 -
the statemeat which a foreign missionary lons resident
in Mamehuria mede to me rooently, who sid, "It is
mrveloms te be in Dairen. You oan brush up against
a Japamese by eeeident without ketting your fase slapped
or boime pashed off the sidewalk."
It should be said, however, in this eonmeetion that
while the Chimese undoubtedly enjoy a vestly greater
preteetion then in Manehurie proper, the Ywantung Leased
Territery is perhaps of especial impertance as indiesting
the rele to which the native population may expeet
ultimately to be relogated, in the other areas of China
comquered by Japem. After over thirty years of Japenese
oeeupation there is not today e single Chinese in this
aree allowed to attain a pesition of distinction or en-
semraged te eequire what wight be termed a vested interest
in seeing the Jupanese control succeesful. of the forty
munieipel couneillors whe legislate concerning those
phases of munieipel activities in miren not dietated
from ebove by appointive ofrieers, only eimht ere chi-
nese. The others (J panese) cre freely eleeted by the
Japanese population, wherees the eisht chinese sre ap-
pointed fro amons those individunls of sufricient
doeility to insure their orestine no troubelsome differ-
enoes of opinion in the  unicipal ud: tnlstretion. ven
more atriking than this situation, however, is that ob-
taining in the principel agency of Jepanese polioy in
Manchurie prior to l9s1, - tho  outh Mano urin Ro 1lway
Company. so far es I heve been cble to aseertain during
 three years' stay here, there is not e single chinese

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.90)
whe is an offieer of the company. of the eight di-
reetere mot oven one is a Chinese, and the pressure fer
plaeing in the company young sapemee of ability and
mbition from Japan proper, together with either de-
liberete policy or indifference to the obviously
emormous opportunity offered to enlist the loyalty
ad entorprise of the Chinese Snhatitants of this area,
ms resulted in no outlet for cuinsse youths of ability,
simee the highost position in the compeny to whion one
might aspire above the race of comon coolie would be a
vory winor clericel one. once in ired of r. alsoka
rgarding the opportunity of nslitstee sup ort
e mentiuned one chinose wnd teen  the eo
the company, who hed risen to be uyor of srbin.
1
not familiar with thie individuel's career but it is cor-
tain that he constitutes mn exeeption to the rule. is
seloction as ayor of Marbin is an indiction that his
telonts in e pesition of resl responsibility were not
required by the eompeny.
respeotfully yours,
stuart. ruon,
American consul.
000
20:1
we copies to Department
Gepy to Embasay, Feiping
to Consulate General, makden
to Consulate Ceneral, Martía
 py of
the signed ori~
a.m
