894C.607 Industrial Matters., Kwantung Leased Territory, Expositions. Exhibitions. Included All Expositions Of Whatever Character., August 22, 1935 (File 875)
ID: 894C.607-875   Pages: 6   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.607-industrial-matters-kwantung-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
1306
Copy for Department
1-6
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Division of Fair Eastern Affairs
SEP 18 1933
Department of State
994C.607
File
994C.607/2
F/B
F/B 894C.607/2
Subject: Grand Manchurian Exposition at Dairen - July 25 - August 31, 1933.
The Honorable Joseph C. Grew, American Ambassador, Tokyo, Japan.
1933
SEP 18 1933
File
894C.607/2
Pol
OCT 1 1933 EAC

Sir:

I have the honor to report that a "Grand Manchurian Exposition" which opened in Dairen on July 23, 1933, is scheduled to run until the end of August. A space of 200 acres is devoted to the exhibition grounds. An early estimate for the amount to be spent for the exposition was approximately Yen 750,000.

The most noteworthy features of the exposition are, first, by far the greatest amount of space is devoted to exhibits of manufactures of companies in Japan proper; and secondly, the National Defense exhibit is in one of the largest buildings, attracts the greatest number of people, and is technically one of the most impressive sights.

Four main halls contain manufactures and natural resources of the mainland of Japan while only one main hall houses the agricultural, mining, forestry and

fabricated

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

fabricated products of Manchuria.

The National Defense Hall is obviously planned with the two motives of depicting a prosperous Manchuria with the advent of Japanese and "Manchukuo" troops and the relative weakness in numbers of men and material of the Japanese army compared with other powers. Thus at the entrance one sees the larger sizes of the American, British, Soviet and Chinese armies and air services represented by model soldiers and airplanes on a chart drawn on a scale in accordance with the Kwantung Army's convenient determination of present day martial strength. The interior has a platform about 45 feet by 20 feet on which model armored trains with long range guns, anti-aircraft audit phones, tanks, anti-craft guns move and fire at enemy airplanes projected on the background. Japanese planes take off to fight the enemy planes above terrain which very realistically represents a country-side given over to modern defense against airplane attack. There is another platform of approximately the same size on which there is a miniature reproduction of the buildings surrounding the park at Chiroba (Great Circle) of Dairen. In the park there are numerous anti-aircraft guns and machine guns mounted. With the accompaniment of gun sounds and flashes and search light rays an enemy plane crashes to the ground. There are pictures showing action against bandits in Manchuria together with window displays of uniforms and pictures of wounded soldiers. Then there are miniature scenes of Japanese and "Manchukuo" troops drilling on

the

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

the green plains of Manchuria while healthy-looking cattle are peacefully grazing. One large illuminated exhibit has photographs of Chang Hsueh-liang, Ma Chansen, Su Ping-wen and Tang Yu-lin surrounded by Chinese characters reading that peace, order and prosperity are coming to Manchuria as shown by the fact that in one year, with the advent of "Manchukuo", the number of bandits has been reduced from 260,000 to 60,000. The Navy is brought to the public's notice by means of pictures and models of Japanese warships and sea battles. An armored tank, torpedoes, submarine listening devices, air bombs, field guns and machine guns were contributed by the Tokyo War and Naval Ministries and the Kwantung Army headquarters.

Another exhibition, erected by a local vernacular newspaper the MANSHU NIPPO, is devoted entirely to scenes illustrative of modern warfare. Both the latter exhibit and the Kwantung Army's have defense against airplane attack as the principal feature.

Each province in Japan has its distinctive exhibition building on the grounds. Many of the larger Japanese concerns have also erected their own structures. However, most of the above structures are inharmoniously packed with heterogeneous goods. Exceptions are the interiors of the buildings of the South Manchuria Railway Company and the South Manchuria Electric Company which are arranged according to an intelligent plan. The lighting system of the Exposition is such as to present an attractive and modernistic illumination at night.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

night. A recent American visitor made the observation that a few of the buildings were similar to some at the Chicago Exposition.

The Grand Manchurian Exposition was inaugurated on the morning of July 25 in the auditorium of the exposition ground by several Japanese and "Manchukuo" officials from Changchun. After the singing of the Japanese and "Manchukuo" national anthem speeches were made by Mr. R. Nagai, Minister of Colonies, Lieut.-General K. Keise, Hsieh Chieh-shih, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Count Hayashi, president of the South Manchuria Railway Company, followed by addresses of some 22 other officials. According to the ticket office 7,900 persons paid admission to the Exposition on the first day.

In connection with the exhibition, on August 14th a "Dairen defense day" began with the presentation of anti-aircraft guns, machine guns, and an anti-aircraft audit phone by the International Express Company. Later 8 airplanes manoeuvred to depict Japanese planes defeating attacking enemy planes. The program was completed by parades of several hundred civilians carrying preparedness slogans. A program designed to strengthen friendship between Japan and the new State was held on August 15th. The occasion, known as "Manchuria Day", was marked by speeches and exchange of gifts between Chinese and Japanese school girls. The following day was announced as "Navy Day" by the Exposition officials and people were allowed to visit "Manchukuo" gunboats and Japanese destroyers in the harbor.

Very

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

Very few foreign firms have exhibits at the Exposition. Products of the General Motors Corporation, Ford Motor Company, Columbia and Victor companies, however, are rather prominently displayed. The Liaotung Motor Corporation of Dairen has erected a 40 by 20 feet building devoted exclusively to products of the General Motors Corporation. The Manchurian Motor Company is exhibiting Ford models in a building about 60 by 20 feet in size. The Victor Company has a small exhibition space in one building, with a small waiting room outside which has a gramophone with a loud-speaking attachment. The Singer Sewing Machine Company has 6 machines of various types on display in one of the main exhibition halls. While the Columbia Company has no gramophones exhibited it has a high column decorated with the Columbia trade mark at the top, which can be seen from the main thoroughfare, with an amplifier in its base. A small space is devoted to Flytox at the exhibition, and a Dairen firm, Oriental Traders, has a small building containing articles it handles, among which are Sun Maid raisins and certain canned California fruits.

At the outset 700,000 visitors were expected to attend the Exposition. However, up to August 19th only 350,000 have paid admission fees, and it is believed by the South Manchuria Railway Company's head office that not more than 400,000 people shall have paid to see the Exposition by the announced closing date of August 31. It is possible, however, that the Exposition will continue on into the month of September. Although the

South

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-

South Manchuria Railway Company has donated a large sum to the Exposition another appeal has recently been addressed to it for more funds. The appeal has not been acceded to, but the head office has confidentially observed that the Company will probably pay off the final debts.

The Exposition has failed to excite any great enthusiasm here although several of the buildings are of interesting and novel architecture. To sum up, if the Exposition has a two-fold mission of advertising Japanese merchandise and propagandizing a "Manchukue" utopia it has doubtlessly achieved a certain amount of success.

Respectfully yours,

John Carter Vincent
American Consul.

860.7
AVB:L

Two copies to Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.
