894C.74 Wireless Telegraph. Divided As 8**.73., April 27, 1936 (File 905)
ID: 894C.74-905   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.74-wireless-telegraph-divided-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
Copy for Department
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Consulate, Dairen, Manchuria, April 27, 1936.

SUBJECT: Surveillance by Military Police of
Sale of Short-wave Radio Sets

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

As the Consulate has previously had the honor to
report the Dairen Military Police (nondarmerio) have
repeatedly shown nervousness regarding the sale of
short-wave radio sets here, and have progressively
increased their vigilance over this phase of the
activities of Dairen radio sales agencies. In this
connection, as an aftermath of the Lin Sheng affair
in Meningan Province, and possibly also of the February
24th incident in Tokyo, the local military police have
recently requested the Dairen Manager of the RCA Victor
Company to furnish a list of all sales of short-wave
radio sets to its dealers in Dairen, as well as details
concerning the machines and prices paid for each.

The company's manager immediately requested the
Consulate's advice as to whether to comply with the request. He was advised that the police appeared to be
within their rights in requesting this information, but

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A-C/C
MAY 28 1936
ASSISTANT SECRETARY

DEC
FBI
JUN 2-1936
FILED
JUN 2-1936
894C
894C.74
894C.74

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

that, since the company objected to furnishing prices involving agency discounts, regarded as confidential, this phase of the police request might be met by furnishing list prices. Should this not be adequate, it would put the burden upon the police to explain the reason and the legal authority for requesting dealers prices. Several days have elapsed since the information was furnished and no further request has been received from the military police. I understand that the authorities concerned have admitted that the purpose of their request is to check the purchases of short-wave sets by local Russians as well as by any other foreigners of uncertain status.

It is of interest to observe in this connection that should the military actually prohibit local sales of short wave sets, the representatives of American companies here would be forced to close the radio sections of their businesses since all-wave sets are nearly universally manufactured in the United States. However, I am informed that even in Japan the trend is in the direction of all wave sets; that there is now a Japanese company manufacturing all-wave sets, which sell in this market, and that several Japanese broadcasting stations have converted their facilities to permit short-wave broadcasting. Moreover, even the military police here themselves seem to have followed the trend of the times, as an urgent order was given by them on the morning of February 26th last for the company's most powerful short-

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.88)
- 3 -

wave set in order to obtain the news from Tokyo.

Respectfully yours,

Stuart K. Crummen,
American Consul.

800/366.16
SKO:L

Two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin

the signed original
Am L

Received, read, and forwarded
Warrant and
American Consulate General, Tokyo.
