894C.71 Kwantung Leased Territory, Post., November 1, 1937 (File 973)
ID: 894C.71-973   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.71-kwantung-leased-territory-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
Copy for Department
DCR

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Consulate, Dairen, Manchuria, November 1, 1937.

SUBJECT: Attempted Interference with Mail
for China of American Firm

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that following several
rumors which reached the Consulate concerning inter-
ference by the local postal authorities with letters
sent to China by foreigners in Dairen, a definite case
affecting an American interest here arose on October
20, 1937.

Mr. William A. Morgan, the representative in this
city of Fraser Federal, Inc., U.S.A., endeavored on
that day, as frequently in the past, to communicate
with his Tientsin principals by mail. An employee
of his was refused permission by the Foreign Mail
Section of the Dairen Central Post Office to send a
registered letter and one or more unregistered ones
to Fraser Federal, Inc., U.S.A., at Tientsin on the
grounds (a) that they were written by a foreigner in the
Evantung Leased Territory to a foreign firm in China,

3040.71/5 FILED APR 1938 F/EB

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

and (2) that they were not written in the Japanese language.

Mr. Morgan appealed to the Consulate for assistance, and in view of the serious prejudice which such a ruling if upheld would have on the firm's business, and of its seeming violation of Article one of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1911 between the United States and Japan. I inquired officially of the Governor of this Territory as to the true facts of the situation.

The former Governor having been replaced, I was only able to obtain verbal communication with one of the officials of the Territorial Government, who expressed concern at the situation but stated that as the Chief of the Communications Bureau has the same official rank as the Governor of the Kwantung Leased Territory, the Territorial Government found itself unable to give instructions to the Bureau in question. In view of this somewhat surprising situation and of his suggestion that I discuss the matter with Mr. Toshiyuki Ito, Chief of the Communications Bureau, I immediately sought an interview with the latter. Mr. Ito received me very courteously in the company of two of his officials concerned with postal matters, having been apprised in advance of the purpose of my visit. He informed me that there is absolutely no objection to the sending of mail, whether registered or unregistered, by Americans from here to China, although stating that in view of present conditions the authorities would not make themselves responsible for the safe and prompt delivery of

either

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
-3-

either category of mail. I thanked Mr. Ito and told him that I was glad to hear that there was no interference contemplated. Mr. However, I stated that the whole matter must have been a mistake, I brought to his attention that there was not that moment a notice in Japanese posted at the Foreign Bill Section of the Central Post Office which stated that until further notice no mail would be accepted for China except for Japanese. Mr. Ito appeared forth to believe that such a notice could be there; stated that if it were, it was without his authority; and in my presence instructed an official to do immediately to the Post Office to clear up the matter and I wish to the officials concerned that such interference was not contemplated by his Bureau. In this connection however an employee of the Consulate, who had previously sent to the Post Office to copy the notice in question, was informed by a member of the Consulate. I believe that the notice was posted in accordance with the instructions received from the Bureau of Communications.

Respectfully yours,

Stuart M. Grudson,
American Consul.

871/310/350
SFC:L

Two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Hukdon
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
Copy to Consulate General, Tientsin
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai

A true copy of the signed original A.M.L.
