894C.5151 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Monetary System. Coinage. Currency. Mint. Bullion., Kwantung Leased Territory, Exchange., August 5, 1940 - September 6, 1941 (File 1297)
ID: 894C.5151-1297   Pages: 43   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.5151-financial-conditions-budget-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
24412
DET 29 1940
AMERICAN CONSULA
Dairen, Manchuria, August 5, 1940.
C
894C.5151
a
SUBJECT:
Kwantung Leased Territory Foreign
1-1055
Exchange Regulations Become More
Strict
894C.51
Cofy in FE
THE HONORABLE
M
RECBIVED.
In U.S.A.
THE SEGRETARY OF STATE
Gourley
Commerce
51940
Torif
5
WASHINGTON
SIR:
I have the honor to transmit herewith, the foreign
10/21/40
REt
exchange regulations of the Kwantung Leased Territory
department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
as revised on July 1l, 1940.
0C1 24 1940
D
The new regulations reduce the limit of currencies
S
barried out by outgoing tourists, without permit, from
N
500 yuan (yen) to 50 yuan (yen) and also lower the limit
C
FILED
from 200 yuan (yen) to 50 yuan (yen).
01940
All remittances abroad are now subject to speoial
permit, whereas 500 yuan (yen) a year at the rate of
not more than 50 yuan (yen) a month oculd formerly be
made more or less freely, with practically no formali-
ties.
The July revision also places mumerous other
restriotions to prevent the buying and selling of
foreign ourrenoy and foreign erchange without permit

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
except through authorized foreign exchange banks.
Respectfully,yours,
CHyourbe
L. H. Gourley
American Consul
Enclosure:
Translation of Kwantung Province
Foreign Exchange Regulations
as Revised on July 1l, 1940.
851.51
LHG:i
Original and five copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
nclosure to Despatch No. 31 dated August 5, 1940, from
L. H. Gourley, American Consul at Dairen, Manchuria,
on the subject "Kwantung Leased Territory Foreign
Exchange Regulations Become More Strict."
KWANTUNG PROVINCE FOREIGN EXCHANGE REGULATTONS AS REVISED
ON JULY 11. 1940.
(Translation below includes original Kwantung Bureau Ordi-
nance No. 95 of October 8, 1937, with al1 revisions up to
date. The original ordinance was amended by Ordinance
No. 12 of March 29, 1938, No. 76 of September 13, 1938,
No. 91 of November 8, 1938, No. 69 of July 8, 1939, No. 74
of July 24, 1939 and No. 54 of July 11, 1940.)
article 1. Unless the permission of the mbassador is
obtained, it is prohibited to export gold coins,
gold bullion, gold alloy and material with gold
as its prinoipal content to places outside this
territory (except to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Kara-
futo and Manchukuo.) It is prohibited to destroy
or mutilate gold coins. When anyone exports gold
coin, gold bullion, gold alloy or material with
gold as its principal content under permit, a
report shall be submitted to the Ambassador
through the Manchukuo Customs House or Post Of-
fice, as separately provided for.
Article II.
Acquisition of foreign currency (ercluding Man-
chukuo currency) or foreign exchange, without
commercial necessity, demand, or actual require-
ment is prohibited. (Here and hereinafter, by
"Foreign Exchange" is meant Bills of Exohange,
Checks, Orders to pay, Telegraphio Remittances
and Post Office Money Orders whioh are intended
to emanate from this territory to places outside
this territory (excluding, however, Yen exohanges
or Manchukuo Dollar exchange between this terri-
tory and Japan, Korea, Formose, Karafuto and
Manchukuo.) The purchase and sale of Yen Ex-
change or Manchukuo Currenoy Exohange on places
outside this territory without commeroial neoes-
sity, demand or actual requirement, is prohibited.
2.
The purchase or sale of foreign ourrenoy as
business by anyone other than a Foreign Exohange
Bank is prohibited.
Article III. Except with the permission of the Ambassador,
the undermentioned transactions or acts are
prohibited.
1. The purohase of foreign ourrency or foreign
exchange against yen or Manohukuo ourrency
as counter-value.
2. The sale of Foreign Emehange against yen or
Manohukuo ourrenoy, to anyone other than a
Foreign Erehange Bank, or with the intention
of setting-off exohange purohased.
3. The sale against foreign currenoy of foreign
exchange expressed in yen or in national
ourrenoy.
4.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
4. The purchase against foreign currency of
foreign exchange expressed in yen or in
national currency with the object of set-
ting-off a sale of exchange.
Payments in foreign currency in this territory.
Remittance abroad, in the form of yen currency,
Manchukuo currency, foreign currency, checks
or drafts, either by forwarding, by carrying
in person, or otherwise remitting, not in
accordance with the provisions of Article I,
and other clauses of this Article.
7.
Payments in this territory, based on instruc-
tions from abroad (except Japan, Korea, For-
mosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo).
2. In the case of any person traveling outside this
territory (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukuo) carrying in person yen currency,
Manchukuo currency, foreign currency, drafts and
letters of credit (including travelor's cheques)
outside this territory, a report shall be sub-
mitted to the Ambassador through the Government
of Kwantung Province as separately provided for
on the departure.
3. Unless the permission of the Ambassador is ob-
tained it is prohibited to remit or to carry in
person 1o0 yen note of Japanese bank notes and
Manchukuo paper notes, to places outside this
territory (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Kara-
futo and Manchukuo).
Article IV.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause 1 to 4,
6 and 7, Article III the transactionsor acts
mentioned therein require no permit of the
Ambassador in the undermentioned instances.
However, remittances or carrying in person of
yen ourrency, Manchukuo currency or foreign cur-
rency to the places outside this territory, are
allowed except instances provided in Clause 3
and 5.
1. When necessary in exporting goods from this
territory or Manchukuo, abroad, (with the
exception of securities: say, public and
private bonds, shares or coupons of publio
or private bonds) or when necessary in im-
porting goods from abroad to this territory
or Manchukuo.
2. When necessary to remit to creditors, resident
outside this territory, interest on publio or
private bonds, or bank deposits, or proceeds
of oash trust payable in this territory.
3. When necessary for a person traveling outside
this territory to carry in person yen eurremey,
Manchukuo ourrenoy and forelgn ourremey, equi-
valent to the amount of not more than Yon 50.00
to apply for traveling expenses.
4.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
4. When selling exchange under, or making pay-
ments, or purchasing exchange for payments
under letters of credit opened in this
territory or Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
or Manchukuo.
5。
when doing the Government's business or
filling the the requirements of the Govern-
ment.
article V. Without the permit of the Ambassador, Foreign
Currency securities (hereinafter "Foreign
Currency securities" will be taken to mean
public bonds, private bonds, shares or the
coupons thereof expressed in foreign currenoy,
and those public bonds, private bonds, and
shares which are registered and expressed in
foreign currency) oannot be seoured by pur-
chase. The foregoing rule shall not be ap-
plied to the foreign currency securities held
in this territory on October 5, 1933 and those
legally imported according to the provisions of
Article 7, Clause 1 of the old Exchange Law,
or when a foreigner (excluding Manchurian)
obtained them with funds held abroad (except
Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo).
2.
Unless the permission of the Ambassador has
been received, no foreign bond outside the
terri tory (excluding Japan and Manahukuo)
may be disposed of: but this shall not be
necessary in the case of payments after the
arrival of the specified date as laid down
in Article 18, paragraph 1.
The provisions of the foregoing paragraph
shall not be applicable to foreigners (other
than Manchoukuoans).
Article VI.
Wi thout the permit of the Ambassador, no
transfer of foreign exohange holdings against
yen or Manchukuo currenoy as counter value
except foreign currenoy and foreign securities
is allowed in this territory.
Article VII. Without the permit of the Ambassador, no
deposit, or borrowing, for the purpose of
obtaining foreignexchange holdings of
obligations expressed in foreign ourrency,
on whosesoever account it may be, is allowed
in this territory.
Article III. Without the permit of the Ambassador, no
trust or insurance contract (exoept re-
insurance and marine insurance) for the
purpose of obtaining foreign ourrency
holdings or obligations expressed in foreign
ourrency, is allowed in this territory.
Artiole 

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Article IX.
Unless the permission of the Ambassador has
been received, no local loan or debenture may
be issued which is expressed in foreign cur-
rency; nor may a loan expressed in foreign
currency oe raised, in a place outside the
territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo)
which is guaranteed by assets within the
territory (or in Japan or Manchoukuo); nor
a loan expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo
ourrency from persons resident outside the
territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).
2.
Unless the permission of the Ambassador has
been received, no guarantees may be furnished
in respect of liabilities of persons resident
outside the territory (excluding Japan and
Manchoukuo); but this shall not be necessary
in the case of furnishing guarantees for
foreign bonds outside the territory (exoluding
Japan and Manohoukuo) when permission has been
received in accordance with Article 5, para-
graph 2.
The provisions of the foregoing paragraph
shall not apply in the case of foreigners
(other than Manchoukuoans) furnishing guaran-
tees for assets owned outside the territory
(excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).
Article X.
Without the permit of the Ambassador, it is
prohibited to acquire letters of oredit in this
territory (excepting oredit favoring Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo). Ex-
ceptions to this rule are allowed as follows:
1. For importation of goods into this territory
or Manchukuo and exportation of goods from
this territory or Manchukuo.
2. In case of carrying in person traveling ex-
penses and other allowances given by the
Government or obtaining letter of oredit for
remittance thereof.
Article XI. Without the permit of the Ambassador, it is
prohibited to import seourities from abroad
(except from Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto)
or to export securities abroad (ercept to
Japan, Korea, Formosa and Karafuto). Exoep-
tions to the rule are the following:
l. Importations after the maturity date or
within three months prior to the maturity
date for the purpose of reoeiving payment
for the security in this territory.
2. Import or export of shares for sending to
the Company, Government or public offioe,
or its financial agenoy, in order that the
shareholders, direetors or holders of such
publio

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
public or private bonds may take necessary
steps toward protection of rights or duties
based on the Law here or abroad or articles
of the Association.
。
Import or export of such public and private
bonds for the purpose of presenting same as
per provisions of the preceding clause to
the Company, Government or Public Office, or
its financial agent or for returning them.
4.
Export or import of shares, public and private
bonds to present to the acceptor of the
shares, or the applicant of the bonds.
5.
Export or import to, and/or from Manchukuo,
securities expressed in Yen or Manchukuo
currency. Those who imported securities from
abroad (with the exception of Japan, Korea,
Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo) or exported
abroad securities (with the exception of
Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo)
are requested to make a report to the Ambassa-
dor within two weeks, as separately provided
for. a party traveling abroad should report
before his departure.
2.
Except when the permission of the Ambassador
has been obtained, it is prohibited to import
from the places outside this territory (ex-
cluding Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and
Manchukuo) Japanese bank notes, Manchukuo
paper notes and foreign currency. Exoeptions
are allowed on the undermentioned occasions:
1. Any traveler personally carrying Yen 50.00
or its equivalent.
2. Importation for filling the requirements
of the Government.
3.
Persons who import Japanese bank notes, Man-
chukuo paper notes or foreign currenoy from
the places outside this territory (excepting
Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manohukuo)
shall submit a report to the Ambassador through
the Government of Kwantung Province, as sepa-
rately provided for, upon arrival in this terri-
tory in case of carrying in person, and within
two weeks after the importation in other cases.
Artiole XII.
Without the permit of the Ambassador it is
prohibited to export abroad without drawing
for a part or the whole of the value (that is,
exports outside this territory to places
other than to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukuo). Exoeptions are allowed on
the undermentioned ocoasions:
1. When exporting samples or presents.
2. When exporting on oonsigament or forwarding
or returning goods exported or imported on
oonsignmen't.
3.n

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
3. When payment has already been received from
abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formose, Kara-
futo and Manchukuo) in the territory before
the export was effected or when the export
has been made in order to replace the mer-
chandise for which the payment was received
previously in this territory (except Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo) in
this territory.
4. When there is a definite contract whereby
payment will be received from abroad (ex-
cepting Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
or Manchukuo) in this territory within two
months of the export.
5. when exporting for payment of sales com-
missions, compensations, or other expenses
as a result import or export to and/or from
this territory or Manohukuo.
6. When exporting goods for which payment can
be determined only after the delivery.
7. When exporting by mail goods of less than
¥lo00.00 in value, or sending goods by rail
on cash on delivery basis.
8. when exporting under bill for collection
goods valued at less than 20,000.00 through-
out one month, stipulated terms that the
drawee remit proceeds within one month to
this territory.
9. When exporting goods valued at less than
¥100.00.
10. When exporting according to the requirements
of the Government.
ll. When exporting under bills of exchange on a
bank in this territory and selling same under
a letter of oredit received from abroad
(exoepting Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukuo) or for exporting baggages,
ship's utensils, (inoluding fishing boatis
utensils); or when drawing foreign erohange
and receiving payment upon submission of
shipping documents to a bank in this territory.
Article XIII. When a person erports goods abroad (excepting
to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchu-
kuo) wi thout drawing a draft for the whole
amount, he is requested to make at the time
of shipping or submitting to the Post Office,
a report to the Ambassador through the Man-
chukuo Customs House or the Post Offioe in
question, as per provisions separately en-
forced. Exceptions are as follows:
1. Donations for charity or the meedy.
2. Exports effeoted By the Government.
3. Shipments valued at less than 100.00.
4. Baggages, removal cargo and ship's out-
rittings.
Artiolo XIV.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
Article XIv. a person exporting goods, drawing for a part
or the whole of the value, on a foreign place
(except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and
.anchukuo) is required to report to the
mbassador througn the Manchukuo Customs or the
sendin rost Office at the time of the export,
in regard o the drawing, as per provisions
separately enforced.
NOTE: Goods mentioned in clauses in the preceding
rticle 13 oxcepted. fter the making of the
above report, if no change takes place in the
amount of the draft drawn, a report shall be
submitted to the Ambassador through the
Manchukuo Customs House or the sending Post
Office, accompanied by certificate of the
negotiating bank, within two weeks of the
shipments, according to provisions as
separately enforced.
Article XV.
After the making of the report as set forth in
Article l4, if actually no draft was drawn, or
if the amount of the draft as finally
negotiated was altered, a report shall be
submitted to the Ambassador through the
Manchukuo Customs House or the sending Post
Office within two weeks of the shipment, as per
provisions as separately enforoed. When the
amount of the draft is changed, a certificate
of the negctiating Bank should be attached.
When a person has exported (exoepting to Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto and Manchukuo) and has
negotiated a draft for a part or whole of the
value, and desires to refund, or purchase back
the drawing, a report shall be submitted to the
Ambassador immediately through the Manohukuo
Customs House or the sending Post Office.
Article XVI.
When a person exports goods or seourities
abroad (exoept Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukuo) wd thout drawing a draft for the
whole or a part of the value, and intends to
get payment from abroad, he is requested to
recover the proceeds within five months of the
arrival of the shipment, at the foreign des-
tination, after deducting therefrom expenses
inourred abroad and the cost of the goods,
imported into this territory and Manohukuo.
However, with the permit of the Ambassador,
this rule may be waived. The status of
collections of proceeds shall be reported
to the Ambassador monthly, not later than
the firteenth of the following month acoording
to provisions separately enforoed.
Artiole XvII. Persons who hold in this territory (or Japen,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manohukuo) foreign
ourrenoy securities vhioh have matured or are
maturing, shall upon dispesing of same, re-
ceive payment in this territory (er Japan,
Korea

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) within
three months after such maturity date. How-
ever with the permission of the ambassador,
this rule shali not apply.
article AVilL. Persons who hold abroad (excepting Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) foreign
currency securities and interest or dividends
receivable abroad which have matured or are
maturing, shall upon disposing of same, re-
ceive payment in this territory (or Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) wi thin
three months of such maturity.
NOTE: With mbassador's permission, this rule
can be waived. When a person sells foreign
currency securities owned abroad (except Japan,
Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) or re-
ceives payment therefor, or receives dividends
or profits accruing on foreign security abroad
(except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or
Manchukuo) or disposes of rights to receive
expenses spent abroad relative to the foreign
security, and the profit or dividend therefrom
shall be remitted to this territory within
two months.
NOTE: If, however, the whole amount does not
exceed ¥loo0.00 or equivalent, or the permit
of the mbassador is obtained, this rule shall
not apply.
2.
Unless the permission of the mbassador has
been received, immovable property, mining
rights, timber cutting rights or industrial
ownership rights outside the territory (ex-
cluding Japan and Manohukuo) or shipping
registered outside the territory (exoluding
Japan and Manchukuo) may not be acquired:
but this shall not be necessary in the cases
enumerated below:
a. When acquiring in the course of one year
property worth not more than the equiva-
lent of fifty thousand yen.
b. When permission has been obtained in ao-
cordance with the provisions of Artiole 3
or Article lo to remit or disburse the
price of property to be aequired.
c. When obtaining title to mining rights
and industrial ownership rights.
d. In the case of aoquisition by inheritance
or bequest.
e. In the case of acquisition by a Government
department.
"The provisions of the foregoing paragraph
shall not apply in the case of acquisition by
foreigners (other than Manohukmemns), without
indemmification or by means of property owmed
outside the territory (exoluding Japan and
Manchukuo)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
- 9 -
Manchukuo), of property as set forth in the
foregoing paragraph.
nless the permission f the ambassador has
been received, property outside the territory
(excluding Japan and Manchukuo) may not be
di sposed of for the purpose of obtaining
the assignment of industry, business or in-
vestments, nor for the purpose of acquiring
property within the territory: but this shall
not be necessary in the cases enumerated below:
a. hen in the course or one year property
of a value not exceeding the equivalent
of fifty thousand yen is disposed of for
the purpose of obtaining the assignment
of industry, business or investments
outside the territory (excluding Japan
and Manchukuo), or for the purpose of
making investments outside the territory
(excluding Japan and Manchukuo).
b. When acquiring foreign bonds by permission
received in accordance with the provisions
of Article 5.
c.
When disposing of foreign bonds by per-
mission received in accordance with the
provisions of Article 5, paragraph 2.
The provisions of the foregoing
paragraph shall not apply in the case of
foreigners (other than Manchukuoans) dis-
posing of property owned outside the
territory (excluding Japan and Manchukuo).
Article XIX. Banks in existance on and after October 8, 1937
and banks starting to handle foreign exohange
business (including quasi-banks) are requested
to get the permit of the Ambassador. Banks
who applied on or before December 7, 1936 for
permit to handle foreign exohange, or banks
who obtained such permit, or banks who have
secured permits according to the provisions
of this Artiole 19, shall be called Foreign
Exchange Banks, and their places or business
shall be announced by the Ambassador. When
a foreign exchange bank desires to discontinue
a part or the whole of its foreign exchange
business, or have its name or address changed,
it shall submit beforehand an application to
the Ambassador, who shall make due announoe-
ment of the change.
Artiole XX.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Artiole 3,
5, 6, and 1l, Foreign Exohange Banks can engage
in the undermentioned transactions and acts
without the permit of the Ambassador.
1. The sale or purchase of foreign erohenge
(imeluding quasi-erohange transactions)
accerding to the demands of the oustomers.
2. Th

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
2. The sale or purchase of foreign exchange
or remittance abroad, of funds resulting
from such sale or purchase of foreign
currency or foreign exohange, according
to provisions of Clause 1.
3. Remittance abroad of proceeds of collections
made in this territory.
4. Payment of remittances received from abroad
5. Exporting abroad of foreign currency
securities three months prior to due date
or after due date, in order to obtain pay-
ment (this to include securities tendered
by clients for collection). The provisions
of article l6 will not apply to Foreign
Exchange Banks, when exporting foreign cur-
rency securities. The provisions of Article
17 and 18 will not apply to foreign exohange
banks. When the Ambassador deems it neces-
sary, he may require applications for trans-
actions mentioned in Clause 1 of this Artiole.
article XXI. When a foreign exchange bank becomes a party
to a transaction or act as mentioned in Article
3 and 10, it is expected to be responsible in
the matter of whether it is necessary for the
customer to obtain a permit for the trans-
action, according to the regulations.
2.
The ambassador may, when he considers it neces-
sary, indicate matters and persons for the
purpose of exempting them from the limitations
laid down in this Ordinance on transactions
and actions.
Article XXII.
Foreign Exchange Banks are requested to report
daily to the Ambassador, (not later than three
days in each case) according to provisions
separately enforced, all foreign exohange
transactions (including transactions in what
is known as "quasi-foreign exohange"), the
sale and purchase of exchange, the handling
of foreign currency collections, payment of
remittanoes and opening of letters of credit
between this territory and Japan, Korea,
Formosa, Karafuto and Manohukuo.
Article XXIII
Foreign Exchange Banks are requested to report,
not later than three days in each case, daily
amounts of foreign currenoy and exohange sold
and purchased, as well as the extents of short
or long positions in foreign ourrenoy or
foreign exohange.
Article XxIV. Cancelled
Article xxv. Cancelled
Article XVI. Cancelled
Article XXVII

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Article XXVII. On and after this date, all parties who
have engaged in the undermentioned trans-
actions or acts, vis-a-vis this territory
and abroad, are requested to report to the
mbassador the details, by the fifteenth of
the following month, according to provisions
separately enforced.
NOTE: ny transaction or act that does not
Involve as much as the equivalent of Yen
lo00.00 shall be treated as an exception.
1. The acquisition or disposition of foreign
currency.
The requisition or disposition of foreign
exchange.
3. Otherwise making remittances abroad
(except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukuo).
4. The acquisition or disposition of foreign
currency securities.
5. Opening or acquiring letters of oredit.
6. The obtaining of a credit expressed in
foreign currency (except foreign exohange
or a bond expressed in foreign ourrency),
or of a credit expressed in Japanese or
Manchukuo ourrency for a person resident
outside the territory (excluding Japan
and Manchukuo).
7. The making or withdrawal of a deposit
expressed in foreign currency, or of a
deposit with a person resident outside
the territory (excluding Japan and Man-
chukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchu-
kuo currenoy.
8. The making or receiving repayment of a
loan expressed in foreign ourrency, or
of a loan to a person resident outside
the territory (excluding Japan and Man-
chukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manohu-
kuo ourrency.
9. Seeking or securing trusts expressed in
foreign currenoy.
10. Contracting for insurance expressed in
foreign currenoy.
ll. Issuing or calling-in looal and private
bonds expressed in foreign ourrenoy.
12. The receipt or repayment of a deposit
in foreign ourrenoy, or of a deposit
from a person resident outside the terri-
tory (exoluding Japan and Manohukuo) ex-
pressed in Japanese or Manchukuo ourrenoy.
13. The borrowing or repaying of a loan express-
ed in foreign ourrenoy, or of a loan from
a person resident outside the territory
(exoluding Japan and Manchukue) expressed
in Japanese or Manohukuo currenoy.
14. Making payments or reeeiving in this
territory on instruetions frem abroad
(except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
and Manchukue).
Dospito

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
Despite certain periods set for reports,
in this Article, those who travel abroad
are requested to report any of these
transactions or acts mentioned, before
departure.
article VilI. he preceding article shall not apply for
transactions or acts engaged in by foreigners
entirely abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formosa,
Karafuto and Manchukuo).
2。
Persons who possess current account balances
or other offsetting balances within the terri-
tory, and are resident outside the territory
(excluding Japan and Manchukuo), shall, as
determined elsewhere, make a report to the
Ambassador for every month not later than the
15th day of the following month.
3. Persons who carry on industry or business out-
side the territory (excluding Japan a nd Man-
chukuo) shall, as determined elsewhere, re-
port to the Ambassador the income and expendi-
ture arising outside the territory (excluding
Japan and Manchukuo) in respect of such in-
dustry or business for the periods January -
June and July - December respectively of each
year; and also the circumstances of remit-
tarces and other capital movements to or from
this territory, as well as particulars of
assets and liabilities held outside the terri-
tory (excluding Japan and Manchukuo) at the
end of each such period.
The report which is to be submitted to
the Ambassador in accordanoe with the provi-
sions of the foregoing paragraph must be des-
patched within one month after the end of
the period, and, upon receipt by the head of-
fice or corresponding entity, must be sub-
mitted without delay.
4.
Persons who possess property (other than
foreign bonds, deposits, loans and titles
to usufruct of trusts) outside the territory
(exoluding Japan and Manchukuo) shall, as
determined elsewhere, report to the Ambassador
particulars of the inorease or decrease there-
of for the periods January-June and July-De-
cember respeotively of each year, and also
the value thereor at the end of eaoh such
period: but this shall not be mecessary in
case the value of the said property at the
end of the period is less than the equivalent
of ten thousand yen in all.
The provisions of the foregoing paragraph
shall not apply to Government departments nor
to persons carrying on industry or business
outside

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
outside the territory (excluding Tapan
and Manchukuo).
The provisions of paragraph 2 of the
foregoing article shall be applicable in
the same way as paragraph 1, mutatis
mutandis.
5.
'he report which is to be submitted to the
mbassador, in accordance with the provisions
of Article 27, in respect of transactions and
actions outside the territory (excluding
Japan and Manchukuo), must be despatohed not
later than the 15th day of the following month,
and, upon receipt by the head office or cor-
responding entity, must be submitted without
delay.
Article XXIX.
A person who owns foreign currency, foreign ex-
change, or a foreign bond: or who has made
a deposit, or a consumptive loan, or entered
into a trust or contracted insurance, express-
ed in foreign currenoy: or who has made a
deposit, or contracted a consumptive loan,
expressed in Japanese or Manchukuo currency,
while resident outside the territory (ex-
cluding Japan and Manchukuo), shall, upon
coming into possession of a residence within
the territory, submit the information to the
Ambassador not later than the 15th day of the
following month: but this shall not be neces-
sary in case the amount is less than the equi-
valent of one thousand yen.
The provisions of the foregoing para-
graph shall not be applicable to a foreigner
(except a Manchukuoan) except as regards
foreign exohange.
Article XXX.
When a party obliged to make a report in
accordance with the provisions of this law
is not able to do so within the stipulated
time owing to causes beyond his control, he
is requested to make such report immediately
after such cause shall have ceased to exist.
Article XXXI.
When he considers it necessary the Ambassador
shall designate a matter and a person and re-
quire a report to be submitted other than one
specified in this Ordinance, or he may waive,
or extend the time limit for, the submission
of a report specified in this Ordinance.
Artiole XXXII.
When he considers it necessary the Ambassador
shall cause an official to examine the books
of, or make any other investigation in respeot
of, any person, in conneotion with any neces-
sary matter in relation to a prohibition or
restriotion specified in Artiole 1 of the
Law for the Control of Foreign Exohange, or
10

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
in relation to an order for disposal
as specified in Article 4 of the said
Law (which is made applicable by the
Ordinance for the Control of Foreign Ex-
change in. the Iwantun Province and the south
Manchuria Railway one).
rticll.
The Ambassador may, otherwise thn as deter-
mined in this Ordinance, order  person who
is in possession of property as enumerated
below, to sell the same to a person design-
ated by himself, or to dispose of it in any
other necessary way; or he may forbid or set
limits to such disposal:
a. Gold bullion, foreign currency and
foreign exchange.
o. Bonds or credits expressed in foreign
ourrency, or credits for persons resident
outside the territory (excluding Japan and
Manchukuo) expressed in Japanese or Man-
chukuo currency.
c. Property not specified in the two fore-
going subsections which is held outside
the territory (excluding Japan and Man-
chukuo).
article XxXIv. The provisions of Articles 2, 3, and 5 shall
not be applicable to the transactions and
actions in Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto
or Manchukuo of persons who have a residence
or place of business or office in this terri-
tory, in case the Foreign Exchange Control
Ordinance in those respective territories
is applicable to them.
Article xxxv.
Transactions or acts for which one has al-
ready obtained permit from the Treasury
Minister, Governor-General of Korea, Gov-
ernor-General of Formosa, or Chief Governor
of Karafuto, in accordance with the Foreign
Exchange Control Law, do not require permit
of the Ambassador as previously set forth
herein.
Article XXxVI. Cancelled
Artiole XxvII. Doouments necessary for making reports or
applications to the Ambassador, are publish-
ed separately.
ADDNDA: This Law is effective from the date of promulga-
tion but Artisle 12 to 15 are offeotive on and after
Ootober 13, 1957. Bank notes issued by the Tokehama
Specie Bank Ltd., in this territory and Manohukuo
shall be not considered as foreign ourremey as men-
tioned in Article 3, Clause 1. One who had obtained
permit of the Ambassador under provisions of the later
Erohange Control Law shall be considered as having se-
oured permit under the present Law (for an identical,
not

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
一15-
not yet completed, transaction). Acts committed
prior to enforcement of the present Law, punishable
under the old Law, shall be dealt with under the
provisions of the old Law.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
CHILE UF THE ADVISEN UN
FE
INTERNATIONAL ECONUMIC AFFAIRS
E
TAR 88 194GL
TELEGRAM RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1A
JR
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
Tokyo via Shanghai & N. R.
forE being communicetEd FROM
to anyonE.
(br)
Dated Fεbrue ry 27, 1941
104
REc'1 3:30 p.m., Merch 2.
raw
Secretary of State,
14
gionp
ESTRS
894C.5151
322, Frrruary 27, 2 p.m.
Dep-rtment of  a
The American Consul at Dairrn reports that pEnding
a dEcision by thE ExchangE Control authoritiEs in rEgard
to thE remitting of official funds, hE was unwilling to
accept local currency in payment of thE feE for a
9
consuler bill of hEalth for thE SAN PEDRO MARU of thE
Kokusai Kisen Kaisha. Thε ship seiled from Dairen for
Unis
Los hngeles on FEbruary 22 without a bill of health.
PS/LW
ThE shipmaster requested e decleration thet a bill
192
of health was not availablε, but this was refused on the
ground that a bill of heelth wεs in fact availablε but
894.8591
that its issuancE was prevented by thE action of thE
125.3515
Dairen ExchangE control officials. ThE shipmaster is aware
of thE penalty of fivE thousand dollers for notheving a
LIIAISNUO OFGE
R
bill of heal th, but reportedly declared that hEou
1641
124
avoid paying thE finE becausE a bill of health
0
8
DEPAR
unobtainable at Dairen.
MAR
Parenthetically, I took up with the Foreign Minister
February

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #322, February 27, 2 p.m., from Tokyo via Shanghai.
Februery 26 the question of remitting official funds from,
Dairen, and lEft with him an "oral" statement which wes
preparEd bEforr thE arrival of thE report from Dairen.
mEntionEd abovE. ThE Dairtn ExchangE Control authorities
apparently consider that thE Foreign OfficE's assurance
of July 16 εbout this matter forwarded to the Depertment
8945151/90
in thE Embassy's dEspetch Number 3126 of July 22/ 1938,
do not epply to thE Kwangtung leased territory.
A full report by mail follows.
Sent to the Depsrtment via air meil to Shanghai.
CodE text by tir meil Dairen.
GREW
CSB

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.92)
Day letter
25
Night letter
March 19, 1941
Charge to
6p.m
$
AMERICAN EMBASSY,
h should  corofull 
TOrYO.
municated ts anyon
193
Your 322, February 27, 1941, 2 p.m.
From the facts reported it would appear that the
Consul at Dairen has acted in accordance with the
lations in declining to issue'a bill of health
of inability to obtain exohange. In view of the fa
that questions as to the propriety of this 
raised when the vessel reaches the United Statem,
Department desires immediately/additional informat
the exohange situation'and also whether the present pe
is in the nature of a test or whether toneales
are being refused in all'oases when
sendered in payment.
Publie Health Servioe'has been

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
CEI
MAR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
0
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
PEPT.
OF
P
of
March 18, 1941
N AFFAIRS
A
vA
FE
The contents of Tokyo's telegram no. 32? have been
discussed with Mr. Davis of FA wno believes the Jonsul
has acted entirely properly nltnough a check on the
accounts fron Dairen indicated that he had been accept-
ing local currency.
894C.51
Section V-15 of the Foreign Service Regulations
provides as follows:
All cnarges for such services must be in strict
accordance witn tnis tariff, and be collected in the
coin of the United States or at its representative
51
value 1n excnange. (22 U.S.C.8 128.) For each and
every fee where the representative value in exchange
is collected instead of the coin of the United States
there shall be collected a sufficient amount of
foreign currency to enable the officer to purchase as
of tne date of collection a signt draft in the amount
of the fee as prescribed by this tariff payable at
par to the Treasurer of tne United States.
The contents of the telegram have been conveyed to the
Public Health Service by telephone. If the question 1
1941
be needed for Public Health Service
S
Tnomas Burke
/LB
IN/LJF:EAG

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OP FORBION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
CERVICE ADMINISTRATION
14
OF THE
JUN 10 1941
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FA
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Gt
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, February 28, 1941.
No. 5401.
 DIFFICILTIES OF
THE XCHLANGE
A
Cofpy in FE
OFFICE OF THE AUVISER UN
894C.5151/7
IONAL 
GLUN-91941
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
U - LIAIDON OFFLQE
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF ATATE
ETNAL 
1941
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
849C.5151
With reference to the Embassy's telegram no. 322
894c.5151
dated February 27, 2 p.m., and to Dairen's communication
to the Embassy of February 2, l94l (copies of which were
sent direct to the Department) coneerning the sag
Dairen for the United States of the S8 SAN

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
out a consular Bill of healtn, I have the honor to
1/
enclose a co y of a statement marked "oral" which I
left with the Foreign Linister in regard to the matter
of exchange permits at Dairen for the remitting of
official funds. A copy of my memorandum of my conversa-
2/
tion witn the Forein Minister on this subject is also
enclosed.
It will be noted from these enclosures that ac-
cording to the American Ccnsul at Dairen, the exchange
control authorities at that city asserted that they
were not bound by the assurances given by the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs in a note dated July 16, 1938, that
foreign official offices in Japan would not be requested
to obtain permits in making official remittances. A
copy of this note was transmitted to the Department with
the Embassy's despatch no. 3126 dated July 22, 1938.
The Foreign Minister expressed surprise at this situation
and promised that he would look into the matter immediately.
Respectfully yours,
-ooh6.Tim
851.51
Joseph C. Grew.
HMB:C
Enclosures:
1/2 As stated.
Copy to Consulate, Dairen;
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Original and 4 copies to Department.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No.5 401 dated February 28,
194l, from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation.
February 26, 1941.
The American Ambassador, Mr. Grew,
with the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
ir. Matsuoka.
Subject: Exchange control in Dairen on the basis of
Dairen's telegram of February 18, 9 a.m.
and February 21, 1 p.m.
I took up with the Foreign Minister today the re-
quirement of the exchange control authorities of the
Kwantung leased territory that requests for permits to
purohase foreign exchange should be addressed to the
Japanese Ambassador to Manchukuo, as well as the state-
ment of those authorities to the American Consul in
Dairen that they are not bound by the assurances given
us by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Tokyo in memo-
randum No. 22 - Go, Confidential, Commercial I, of July
16, l938, that foreign official offices in Japan would
not be requested to obtain permits in making official
remittances. I pointed out to the Minister the propriety
of making those assurances binding in all territories in
the Japanese Empire and I also pointed out to him the ab-
surdity of expecting our Consul in Dairen in such cases
to apply to the Japanese Ambassador to Manohukuo. The
Minister expressed surprise at this situation and said
that he would look into it immodiately.
J. C. G.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to despatch
no. 5401 dated February 28, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Oral Statement left with the Japanese Minister for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Matsuoka, by the American Ambassa-
dor, Mr. Grew, on February 26, 1941.
Oral
A request was recently made to the exchange control
authorities of the Kwantung Leased Territory by the
American Consul in Dairen for permission to purchase
a draft on New York in order to repay certain official
telegraph charges owed by him to the American Consul
General at Zurich. The American Consul cited memorandum
No. 22 - Go, Confidential, Commercial I, of July 16,
1938, from the Imperial Japanese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs to the American Embassy in which assurances
were given that foreign official offices in Japan would
not be required to obtain the permit specified in ordin-
ance number 7 of the Ministry of Finance in making of-
ficial remittances.
In reply the foreign exchange control authorities
stated to the American Consul that they are not bound
by the assurances given in the above-mentioned note of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that in order to
remit official funds it would be necessary for him to
make formal application to and receive permission from
"the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
Japan to Manchukuo".
The American Ambassador inquires whether, as alleged
by the foreign exchange control authorities in Dairen,
the assurances of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in re-
gard to official funds, above mentioned, do not apply
in all Japanese territories, and if such indeed is the
case, asks that those assuranoes be made binding in all
territories in the Japanese Empire.
February 26, 1941.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
xE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
tn
March 29, 1941
Reference Tokyo's 471, March 27,
4 p.m., in regard to departure of the
San Pedro Maru from Dairen for the
United States without a bill of health.
The ship applied at the American
Consulate at Dairen on Saturday after-
noon, February 22, for an American bill
of health and crew list viee. The
uA
master offered to pay in yen or Ameri-
can dollars but the Consul at that time
was unable to convert yen into dollars
and feared that acceptance of payment
for services in dollars might consti-
tute violation of the exchange control
law. The Consul made several efforts
to get in touch with local Japanese
exchange officials in order to get a
ruling upon the point of whether he
might properly accept American cur-
rency. His efforts were unsuccessful.
Accordingly he declined to issue the
doouments requested and the vessel
sailed on that day without them.
The American Ambassador feels
that the Consul was fully justified in
suspending services while unable to
obtain foreign exchange except by
petitioning the "Japanese Ambassador
to Manohukuo". The Ambassador recom-
mends that no fine be levied against
the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
the San Pedro Maru for non-possession of a bill
of health and crew list visa.
It is believed that the master of the San
Pedro Maru acted improperly in disregarding the
requirement of the American law that he obtain
a bill of health and a crew list visa merely
because he was unable on a Saturday afternoon
to obtain those documents. If he felt that the
Consul's refusal to issue to him the required
bill of health and crew list visa was improper,
his proper remedy, after failure of his own
efforts, was to seek the assistance of the
appropriate port officials.
Instead of following that course he simply
1gnored the requirements of the American law.
To allow that action to go unpenalized would be
to encourage disrespect in Japanese administered
areas for American laws. Having in mind the
desirability of the maintenance of respect for
American laws and regulations in Japanese terri-
tory, the Division of Far Eastern Affairs
suggests that it would be appropriate if the
San Pedro Maru were fined in an amount con-
sidered fair and reasonable by the
concerned
American officials.
m.m1
894C.5151/8
FE:Adams:HNS

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
OFFICE OF THE ANVISER ON
 C AFFA
MK.
FE
L8
closely paraphrased
before being cormunicated
Dated
to nnyone. (Br.)
Rca 8:20 a..
FROM
BIVISION 
Secretary of State,
FEmeno 729.41
A
INTERNATIONAL
DIvIsION OF o Washington.
MAR 22 1941
SERVICE ADMINISTRAMON
JUN11194USH.
as
ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
471, nrch 27, 4 p..
(SECTION ONE)
DEpartment's 193, Harch 25, 6 p.1.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OnE. VEssEl SAN PEDiO RU was not a party to
incident between Consul at Dairen and local Exchange
894C.5151
control authorities but was victin of this controversy.
Ship applied for bill of health and crew list visc and
master offered to pay in yen or Anerican dollnrs but
Consul at that tine was unable to convert yen into
dollars and feared that acceptance of paynent for serv-
ices in dollars night constitutE violation Exchange
control law.
Two. Ship's application for services was ade
ut
Saturday afternoon Februnry 22 when all Governuent offices
closed and although Consul .ade several efforts to get in
touch with local Exchange officinls in order to get a
JUN 13 1941
ruling on this point he wes unsuccessful. ccordingly,
he declined to issue docuuents and vessel sailed sane day
without then. I recomend that no fine be levied against
vrssel for nonpossession bill of health and crew list visa.
GREW
GW

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LS
This telerom must be
TCRYO
clostly phr sed
bef,
uncated
Da: d March 27, 1941
to
FROM
T d e 20 a.m
Secretary of St.te,
Vasiington.
471, Hnrch 27, 4 p.n. (SECTION TWO)
Three. It is understood tint for a few days during
middle of last month ConsulatE at Dairen suspended all
normcl services because of uncertainty regarding avail-
ability of foreign Exchange.
Four. It does not apnear that Dairen Exchange
Control authorities were trying to nake a test cnse.
Foreign ExchangE is Exceedingly scarcE therE and it was
runored last nonth that no further pernits would be granted.
Ordinarily Dairen Consulate has no need for foreign funds
as all fees are required for ordinary running expenses and
no balance renains for transfer abroad.
Five. The recent difficulty there crose because as
an Exceptionel case the Consulate cbout February 16
attempted to buy New York draft for few dollars to rein-
burse Consulate at Zurich for visa telegran. s far as
known to Enbassy no written request was ever nde Either
to local officials or to Exchange Control headquarters
at Hsinking. A verbal request was nade to Dairen exonange
office

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
71, arch 27,  p.n. (Section Two) fron Tokyo
office and at that tine the officinle suggested that
foreign Exchange should follow the custonary procedure
of con.ercial firns and subnit application for exchange
pernits to the JapanesE Anbassador to anchukuo. This
the Consul declined to do pointing out that Dairen was
dE facto and dE jurE and integral part of thE JapanesE
Enpire and hence covered by thE assurances contained in
the confidential menorandun of the JaparesE Foreign
OfficE of July 16, 1938 (copy of which was furnished the
Anerican Enbnssy, Tokyo) to the Effect that foreign
officials in Japan would not be required to obtain per-
nits in ncking official remittance.
GREW

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
This telegran iat be
TOKYO
before being corrlunicated
Dated erch 27, 191
to anyonE. (Br.)
Rec'd 7 c..
FROM
Secretiry of State,
Weshington.
471, Larch 27,  p.. (SECTION THnEE)
The Dairen officials naintained that the assurances
did not cover the Kwangtung leased territory. A day or
two later they stated that if instructions were received
fron thE conpεtent authorities in Tokyo to apply the
sane rules in the Kwantung leased territory that are
in Effect in Tokyo an application vould be necessary.
Six. On February 26 I lεft an "oral" conrunication
with the Foreign inister who showed surprise and pronised
to look into the matter inmediately. As yet no reply has
been received to this, but on February 28 thE Dairen
ExchangE Control OfficE inforied the ConsulatE that pend-
ing receipt of instructions fron Tokyo it would accord
provisioncl pernission to buy foreign Exchange without
necessity of application. As the Consulate was thus able
to estaolish its principal all nornal consular services
were irllediately resuned and uatters have since continued
to run smoothly.
Seven. In view of his fiscal responsibilities to
the

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
-2- 271, Merch 27, 4 p.m. (Seotion Thret) fron Tokyo.
the American Gcvernnent it is felt that the Consul was
fully justified in suspending services while unable to
obtain foreign Exohang Exdept by pEtitioning the
"JapanEsE Anbassador to Manchukuo". (END LESSAGE)
GREW
WWC

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
HOHNBECK
894C
Apr11 2, 1941
Reference the following statement
contained in paragraph numbered five of
5
Tokyo's 471, March 27, 4 p m.: "This the
Consul declined to do pointing out that
5
Dairen was de facto and de jure an integral
part of the Japanese Empire ..."
In Article 1 of the Russo-Chinese
Peninsula (including Dairen) of March 27,
1898, there occurs the following sentence:
"I this act of lease, however, in no way
87742
violates the sovereign rights of H.M. the
Emperor of China to the above mentioned
territory."
In Article y of the subsequent treaty
of peace between Russia and Japan, Septem-
ber 5, l905, there occurs the following
sentence: hThe Imperial Russian Government
tranefer and assign to the Imperial Govern-
ment of Japan, with the consent of the Gov-
ernment of China, the lease of Port Arthur,
Talien and adjacent territory and territorial
waters and all rights, privileges and con-
cessions connected with or forming part of
such lease and they also transfer and asign
public works and properties in the terntor
affected by the above mentioned lease.
9

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
In Article I of a treaty between China
and Japan, December 22, 1905, there occurs
the following statement: "The Imperial
Chinese Government consent to all the trane-
fers and assignments made by Russia to Japan
by Articles V and VI of the Treaty of Peace
above mentioned."
in regard to the kmanduny Leased Terrilory
In an opinion dated January 27, 1900
prepared by the Office of the Solicitor of
the Department of State (Foreign Relations
of the United Statee, 1900, p. 389) there
appears the following statement: "As it is
expressly stipulated in the leases that China
retains sovereignty over the territory leased,
it could doubtless be asserted that such ter-
ritory is still Chinese territory and that
the provisions of our treaties with China
granting consular jurisdiction are still ap-
plicable therein. But in view of the express
relinquishment of jurisdiction by China, I
infer that the reservation of sovereignty is
merely intended to cut off possible future
claims of the lessees that the sovereignty of
the territory 1s permanently vested in them.
The intention and effect of these leases appear
to me to have been the relinquishment by
China, during the term of the leases, and the
conferring upon the foreign power in each case
of all jurisdiction over the territory."
On

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3
On page 73 of The International Legal
Statue of the Kwan tung Leased Territory,
by C. Walter Young, there appears the follow-
ing statement dealing with the test case of
the City of Derby, a vessel of British
registry, which had taken aboard at Yokohama
of the cargo was not a violation of Japanese
coastwise shipping laws because Dairen was
not considered a coastwise port of Japan."
Dairen has never been regarded by the
Government of the United States as an
"integral part" of the Japanese Empire. It
is suggested therefore that in the interests
of accuracy an instruction might be sent to
the American Embassy at Tokyo calling atten-
tion to the matter.
A draft telegram is accordingly attached.
HA 2asCC
FE:Adams:FRE

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.92)
TELZORAMO
Night letter
Charge to
4
April 3, 1941.
5~
AMEMBASSY,
This cable was samt
8
b de
TOKYO (JAPAN).
hee commbmeatedit
215
894c.5151
Your 471, March 27, 4 p.m.
Reference statement of the Consul at Dair
paragraph numbered five of your telegree umde
to the effect that Dairen is do facto and e 
integral part'or the Japanese Dapire.
It is suggested that the Embassy inform
in the interests of acouracy, that while the
under which Japan holds the Kwantang Leasd
provides for the exereise by
Territery

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.84)
CONPIDTTALE  AL
5
The Searetary or State refere to his telogram (mo. 216)
151/8A
of Apr1l 4, 194l, and enoloses for the oonfidential 1n-
farmatlon of the Amerlean Ambessador a eepy of a memeren-
Som of April 2, containing cemmemt 1n cennestion with the
Labassy's telegras (no. 471) of Mareh 27, 1941, La regard
te Japamese jurisdietien In the Kwantung Leased Tersisery.
Enelosu.rs:
April 2.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MR. HURNBFCK
MAY27 1141
WS
FAO
WAA
Tokyo's despatch no. 5507, april 12,
1941.
With reference to the Department's
instruction that the consul at Dairen
be informed that this Government does
not consider the Kwantung Leased Ter-
ritory to be an "integral part" of the
Japanese Empire, the Embassy reports
that copy of the Department's telegram
was forwarded to Dairen. The Embassy
also states that the original quotation
attributed to the Consul at Dairen was
in error and that the Consul had
actually stated that "Dairen is both
de facto and de jure in the Japanese
Empire".
Comment: The use of the expression
that Dairen is "in" the Japanese Empire
is, of course, practically as objection-
able as the expression to which the
Department took exception. However, the
Department's telegram to the Embassy,
which was by the Embassy transmitted
also to the Consul, states the Depart-
ment's view in the matter, and no further
action would appear necessary.
FE:COV11e:OJL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
DEAL AR
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
201941
LE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENFSTATE
PH/H
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Apr11 12, 1941.
No. 5507
SUBJECT:
DIFFICULTIES OF THE AMERICAN CONSULATE
294c.
AT DAIREN WITH THE EXCHANGE CONTROL AUTHORITIES.
n
894C.5151/9
DEPARTMENT OF
1941
Division
FAn E
Sopy in?E
1
In U.S A
PS/DM
The Honorable
The Seeretary of State,
MAY 3 1 1941
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
894℃.5151/8
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
No. 471, of Mareh 27, 4 p.m., 1941, and the Department's
18
telegraphic instruction No. 21s of April 4, 5 p.m., beth
concerning the recent diffioulties encountered by eur
Coasul at Dairen in purehasing a mall dellar draft fer
effieial purpeses.
VV

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
In explaining the difficulties at Dairen, the
Embassy's telegram said that the Consul, in support-
ing his stand that he had a right to purohase foreign
exchange without first securing an exchange permit,
had stated to the local exchange authorities that as
Dairen is "de facto and de jure an integral part of
the Japanese Empire", the rules applicable in Japan
proper should be applicable there. What the Consul
really said was "Dairen is both de facto and de jure
in the Japanese Empire." He did not use the expression
"integral part." In other words, the Embassy officer
drafting the telegram to the Department made an error
while transoribing excerpts from a Dairen message.
This is much regretted.
The substance of the Department's telegram No. 215
and a copy of the present despatoh are being forwarded
to Dairen.
Respeotfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
Aro A. Makimson
George A. Makinson,
First Beoretary of Embassy.
Y
851.51
GAM/b1e
Gráginal and 4 ceptes to Department.
Jepy te Cemsulate, Dairem.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
TRB
Tokyo.
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased before
Dated SEptember 3, 1941
being communicated to any
FROM
onE. (br)
OFFICE OF THE ACVISER ON
IC AFAIRS
Division of
26 1941
SEP 12 1941
FAR EASTERN AFFARS
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SEP4
194h
Department of 3
1374, SEptEmbEr 3, 6 p.m.
SEP 13 19
The Embassy has remitted a sum in yEn to thE AmErican
894C.5151/1
Consul at Dairen who rEports that the Yokohama SpEc1E
Bank has bEen instructed by the Kwantung authorities that
thE ConeulatE must submit in accordancE with instructions
application to "thE JapanEsE Ambassador to Manchukuo" rE-
894℃.5157
quired under the regulations in order to receivE the
funds. ThE bank states that it bEliEvEs that thE appl1-
cation although thus addrEssed would not actually have
to bE rEfErred to thE JapanEsE Ambassador and that it
has received informal assurances that thE application
would bE immediately approved.
In thE ciroumstances thE Embassy can pErceivE no
alternative to submitting thE application as rEquired but
before communioating with Dairen instructione arE requested.
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
SEP 15 1941
DIVISION OF
GREW.
SEP 1 9 1941
FILED
PS/MM
RR

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE LEGAL ADVISER
September 13, 1941
Mr. Beyle:
I have initialed the attached telegram to the
Embassy at Tokyo. However, it appears to me that the
words "Japanese Ambassador at Hsinking" mean the same
thing as "the Japanese Ambassador to Manchukuo", just
as the words "British Ambassador at Washington" mean
the same as "the British Ambassador to the United States."
Dirision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP1:1941
.W894C.5151/10
Department of State
FW
つ
8940.5151/10
Le:RWFlournoy:fcc
R

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
(Full rate
NONCONFIDENTIAL 
Collect
Day letter
Night letter
Charge Department:
Department of State
NAVAL RADIO
Full rate
Day letter
Washington.
Night letter
13
Charge to
ce1 Code.
September, 1941
$
eao
Br
fom
C
AMENBAY
513
Your 1374, September 3, 6 p.m.
Application to "Japanese Ambassador to Manchukuo"
894C.5151/10
by Consul at Dairen.
You are authorized to instruct the Consul at Dairen
to make application for payment of the remittance in the
manner prescribed by local regulations. It occurs to the
Department in this connection that without making an
issue of it, the Consul may find it possible to substitute
the words "Japanese Ambassador at Hsinking" in place of
"the Japanese Ambassador to Manchukuo" in his application.
Sent to Tokyo via Snanghai.
Hule
aus
12 1941PM
5151/10
