894C.5151 Financial Conditions. Budget. Dept. Bond Issues. Loans. Public Securities. Credits., Monetary System. Coinage. Currency. Mint. Bullion., Kwantung Leased Territory, Exchange., December 10, 1935 - May 17, 1938 (File 1021)
ID: 894C.5151-1021   Pages: 35   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.5151-financial-conditions-budget-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
Copy for Department
OFFICE OF FON
JAN 24 1936
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1936 American Consulate, Dairen, Manchuria, December 10, 1935.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN 15 1936
Department of State
894C.5151/1
894C.5151/1

SUBJECT: Effect of Amendment Dated November 30, 1935, to Foreign Exchange Control Law of October 5, 1933, on Kwantung Leased Territory.

Edwin L. Neville, Esquire,
American Charge d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

I have the honor to refer to Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 64 of November 30, 1935, amending that of October 5, 1933, which regulated the sale of foreign exchange in the Kwantung Leased Territory.

The decree of November 30, 1935, which deals primarily with the Railroad Zone, has, I understand, been transmitted by the Consulate General at Mukden. The following comments relate to the present situation in the Kwantung Leased Territory and to prospects of future change as a result of the decree in question, which while not specifically extending its terms to the Kwantung Leased Territory seems to imply that such is the intent by the title.

At present in the Leased Territory there are three types of currency in circulation: (1) Yen notes of the Bank of Chosen, nominally "gold notes" supplemented by

Japanese

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

Japanese subsidiary coinage; (2) silver yen notes of the Yokohama Specie Bank; and (3) small Chinese silver coinage, much of it from the provinces of Kwangtung and Kwangsi, known as the hsisoyang-chien" of varying degrees of fineness averaging between 70 and 60 per cent, mixed with a very large amount of greatly debased and some counterfeit coins. The first currency mentioned is principally used in the purchase of commodities in Japan or exchanged for foreign currencies as well as for the settlement of accounts between the large local Japanese concerns. The second is used principally on the Dairen Produce Exchange for transactions in agricultural products between Japanese and Chinese dealers. It is also used in relatively large amounts for the payment locally of wages to Chinese employees. The third is used almost exclusively in the purchase of agricultural produce direct from the Chinese farmers in the rural areas of the Kwantung Leased Territory since they refuse payment in other currency.

At present, although official figures are unobtainable, the amount of notes in circulation is understood on reliable authority to be approximately Yen 19,000,000, of which in the neighborhood of four million yen are silver notes and 15 million yen, gold notes. No official figures or even reliable estimate exist as to the amount of the silver coinage (hsisoyang-chien) outstanding.

In

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

In conversation recently with the manager of the Dairen Exchange Trust Company, a private company organized to supply certain services to dealers in silver exchange, under government supervision, I learned that plans are now making for the withdrawal from circulation by March 1936 of the silver "hsiaoyang-chien" coinage. Some banks and trade bodies however are of the opinion that a longer time should be provided for the withdrawal of such coinage in order to take care of contracts outstanding some of which run to as much as 10 months and to prepare the Chinese farmer for the gradual use of silver notes. While no definite decision has apparently yet been taken, it seems highly improbable that such action will be taken until after Chinese New Year's day (January 25) in view of the large settlements made at that time.

The manager of the Dairen Exchange Trust Company also stated that although some predictions have been made that after the withdrawal of the silver coinage the silver notes will also be gradually withdrawn, he is of the opinion that on the contrary silver notes will be more in demand than at present as the Chinese element in the population is so wedded to the use of silver that it will probably still prefer silver notes to the so-called gold notes.

Respectfully yours,

Stuart E. Grummon,
American Consul.

851.7
SEG:L

Two

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
- 4 -

Two copies to Department.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Nanking.
Copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden.
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.

Copy of
the signed original
T M

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
894C.5151/2

# DOCUMENT FILE

## NOTE

SEE 893.5151 Manchuria/7 FOR #-

FROM Mukden (Ballantine) DATED Dec 12, 1935
NAME 1-1137 070

REGARDING: Exchange Control Legislation: Translation of Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 64, Nov 30, effective Dec 10, amending and extending the previous legislation in force: Copy of-, together with copy of previous legislation, Kwantung Government Order No. 44, Sept 27, 1933, enclosed.

FRG.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS

December 8, 1937.

Reference Dairen's despatch dated October 18, 1937, to the American Embassy in Tokyo, entitled "Law Controlling Foreign Exchange in the Kwantung Leased Territory".

This despatch refers to a foreign exchange law "applicable to this Territory which is understood to be in the main similar to the one recently enacted in Manchuria". Mukden's No. 156 to the Embassy in Peiping, October 23, 1937, reports that "Manchukuo"'s exchange control law specifically applies to Manchuria, including the Kwantung Leased Territory.

The question of the exchange control law in Manchuria, including Kwantung, has been thoroughly covered in despatches from Mukden and Tokyo. There is nothing new in this despatch which is worth noting.

JMJ
FE:JMJ:NN

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
Copy for the Department
DUR
23086

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Consulate, Dairen, Manchuria, October 18, 1937.

INDEX BUREAU
NOV 16 1937
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS

SUBJECT: Law Controlling Foreign Exchange in the Kwantung Leased Territory

The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.

3

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A M/C
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
A M/C
RECORD
FILE - 5

I have the honor to report that on October 8, 1937, a law was put into effect drastically controlling the sale and purchase of foreign exchange, as well as the export of capital from the Kwantung Leased Territory. Although a full translation of the law applicable to this Territory, which is understood to be in the main similar to the one recently enacted in Manchuria, is not yet available, its main features are known from discussions with local banking and business firms. In general its purpose is to affect a complete financial unification of the Kwantung Leased Territory with Japan and Manchuria in restricting the movement of foreign exchange out of Japanese controlled areas. The law makes imports and exports, both with and without "bills of exchange," subject to license by an exchange control board, and limits the amount of foreign exchange available to firms and individuals to one thousand

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

thousand yen a month, although it is not yet known on what basis such exchange will be granted, nor what the minimum size of a firm so treated will be. In the case of persons traveling or planning to reside abroad, their allowance for foreign exchange for all expenses incidental thereto, is restricted to a maximum of one thousand yen, and in succeeding years to 200 yen, per annum - which will of course in most cases preclude such foreign travel or residence.

The law is further understood to subject to strict governmental control, except in the case of such items exported to or imported from Japan, the transmission abroad from this area of letters of credit for settling import accounts, the export of securities, capital profits, and bank deposits, and the payment of loans and dividends due abroad.

It is understood that a long list of luxury products, the importation of which will be prohibited, will be published later, as well as one of commodities produced in Japan, which will be allowed to be imported only from that country. By analogy with the "Manchukuo" law, it is believed that the luxury articles to be prohibited entirely will include artistic objects, jewelry, perfumes, cosmetics, cameras, foreign wines and liquors, tobacco in certain forms, and "high class" motor cars, which according to a decision made here (not necessarily final) includes American cars from the Dodge class upward; and that products which may be imported only from Japan or from Japanese possessions will include wheat flour,

sugar

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

sugar, paper, tea, watches and clocks, confectionery, silk and rayon textiles, canned goods and earthenware.

Provision appears to have been made however to admit without permit imports shipped before October 14th, as well as the payment of letters of credit opened prior thereto.

Foreign importing firms here anticipate a very drastic restriction of their business as a result of the new law. Certain of them will undoubtedly be unable to continue in business. The full effects are not yet apparent however as the exchange authorities themselves are not certain of the exact scope of the law, having already several times contradicted themselves by interpretive rulings in regard thereto. Produce exporters anticipate that this, one of the least profitable enterprises in Manchuria in which there are still important foreign interests, will become more and more restricted to Japanese firms, since with the power to license exports as well as imports goes the power to throttle foreign enterprise when the moment is deemed opportune. With official interference with legitimate trade activities already a fact prior to the enactment of this new law* (though denied by the authorities), the effect on foreign trading interests in this area, is bound to be serious in the long run, although for the duration of the present hostilities there will remain a good market for articles and materials of military

*Consulate's communications dated September 30 and October 18, 1937.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-

military necessity. Such imports from the United States have already shown an important increase* during the first six months of the present calendar year. It is presumed that on account of the trade agreement, German imports will be favored at the expense of other foreign interests if any relaxation of the provisions of the law is contemplated. In view of past history in this area it seems highly improbable that such business, both importing and exporting, as is forced out of foreign, and into Japanese hands, as a result of the present law or of the previous policy of interference with legitimate foreign trade in this port, will ever be permitted to return to their hands at the conclusion of the present "emergency."

Whatever the effect of the new law on the "open door" in Manchuria,- it will certainly, hasten the abolishment in fact, as far as non-Japanese trading interests are concerned, of the former free trade zone in the Kwantung Leased Territory,- the restriction of which has been proceeding at a gradually accelerated pace since 1922.

I have been promised a dependable translation of the new exchange law applicable to this Territory within the near future and will forward it promptly to the Embassy upon its receipt.

Respectfully yours,

Stuart E. Grummon,
American Consul.

851.7
SEG:L
A true copy of
the signed
ginal A.M.L.

Two copies

*See Foreign Trade of Manchuria, January-June, 1937, dated October 15, 1937.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -

Two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Embassy, Nanking
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Tukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin
Copy to Consulate General, Shanshai

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 22, 1938.

JCV
WAR
JWB

Reference Dairen's no. 21, May 17, 1938, "Transmitting Exchange Control Law".

Dairen forwards to the Department translations of the special Exchange Control Ordinance decreed in the Kwantung Leased Territory on October 8, 1937, as well as translations of the amendments of October 8, 1937, and March 29, 1938.

The despatch comments upon the fact that the March 12 revision gives the Japanese Ambassador to "Manchukuo" wide latitude and discretion in the enforcement of the decrees--empowers him "to discriminate at will in favor of Japanese banks and firms". (Comment: This fact is of little importance. The original decree both as promulgated in "Manchukuo" and the Kwantung Leased Territory discriminates openly in favor of Japan; in fact, the provisions of the decrees do not apply to transactions involving the Japanese yen.)

FE: Jones: MJY

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
17845
AMERICAN CONSULATE
Dairen, Manchuria, May 17, 1938.

[stamp: OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
JUL - 5 1938
DEPARTMENT OF STATE]

[stamp: Division of FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State]

SUBJECT: Transmitting Exchange Control Law

THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.

SIR:

I have the honor to enclose an unofficial translation of Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 12 of March 29, 1938, which amends the law controlling foreign exchange in effect in the Kwantung Leased Territory.

The original Foreign Exchange Control Ordinance, No. 95 of October 8, 1937, was later amended by Ordinance No. 97 of October 8, 1937. Neither of these ordinances appears to have been transmitted by this office to the Department (Vide this office's dispatch of October 18, 1937 to the American Ambassador at Tokyo, entitled "Law Controlling Foreign Exchange in the Kwantung Leased Territory"). Accordingly, translations of these two ordinances also are enclosed as of possible interest and reference.

The latest revisions in the Exchange Control Law, embodied in Ordinance No. 12, above-mentioned,

are

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -

are obviously designed to tighten official supervision over exchange transactions and to bring all the financial resources of residents of the territory under closer control of the authorities. The Department's attention is invited to the new paragraph (2) of article 21, which empowers the Japanese Ambassador to "Manchukuo" to discriminate at will in favor of Japanese banks and firms; and to the revised articles 31 and 33, wherein wide and arbitrary authority is conferred on the authorities.

Respectfully yours,
William T. Turner
American Consul

Enclosures:
Translation of Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 12 of March 29, 1938.
Translation of Foreign Exchange Control Ordinance, No. 95 of October 8, 1937.
Translation of Ordinance No. 97 of October 8, 1937.

851.51
WTT:1

In quintuplicate
Copy to Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
Are no. 1 to despatch no. 21 dated May 17, 1938, from William Turner, American Consul at Dairen, Manchuria, on subject of Transmitting Exchange Control Law.

# TRANSLATION

## KWANTUNG BUREAU ORDINANCE NO. 12 OF MARCH 29, 1938

Amendments to the Regulations for the Control of Foreign Exchange in the Kwantung Province (Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 95 of October 8, 1937)

### Article 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows:-

3. The sale against foreign currency of foreign exchange expressed in yen or in national currency.

Paragraph 4 is re-numbered 6 and paragraph 4 is renumbered 5, and the following paragraph is inserted after paragraph 3:-

4. The purchase against foreign currency of foreign exchange expressed in yen or in national currency with the object of offsetting a sale of exchange.

### Article 4. In paragraph 2 the word "trust" is amended to read "cash trust".

### Article 5. New paragraph:

2. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, no foreign bond outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) may be disposed of: but this shall not be necessary in the case of payments after the arrival of the specified date as laid down in Article 18, paragraph 1.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not be applicable to foreigners (other than Manchoukuoans).

### Article 9. (As amended).

1. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, no local loan or debenture may be issued which is expressed in foreign currency; nor may a loan expressed in foreign currency be raised, in a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) which is guaranteed by assets within the territory (or in Japan or Manchoukuo); nor a loan expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency from persons resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

2. Unless

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

2. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, no guarantees may be furnished in respect of liabilities of persons resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo); but this shall not be necessary in the case of furnishing guarantees for foreign bonds outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) when permission has been received in accordance with Article 5, paragraph 2.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not apply in the case of foreigners (other than Manchoukuoans) furnishing guarantees for assets owned outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

Article 13. Paragraph 3. For "one thousand yen" read "one hundred yen".

Article 18. New paragraph.

2. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, immovable property, mining rights, timber cutting rights or industrial ownership rights outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) or shipping registered outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) may not be acquired: but this shall not be necessary in the cases enumerated below:-

(a). When acquiring in the course of one year property worth not more than the equivalent of fifty thousand yen.

(b). When permission has been obtained in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 or Article 10 to remit or disburse the price of property to be acquired.

(c). When obtaining title to mining rights and industrial ownership rights.

(d). In the case of acquisition by inheritance or bequest.

(e). In the case of acquisition by a Government department.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not apply in the case of acquisition by foreigners (other than Manchoukuoans), without indemnification or by means of property owned outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), of property as set forth in the foregoing paragraph.

3. Unless

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -

3. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, property outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) may not be disposed of for the purpose of obtaining the assignment of industry, business or investments, nor for the purpose of making investments, nor for the purpose of acquiring property within the territory; but this shall not be necessary in the cases enumerated below:-

(a). When in the course of one year property of a value not exceeding the equivalent of fifty thousand yen is disposed of for the purpose of obtaining the assignment of industry, business or investments outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), or for the purpose of making investments outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

(b). When acquiring foreign bonds by permission received in accordance with the provisions of Article 5.

(c). When disposing of foreign bonds by permission received in accordance with the provisions of Article 5, paragraph 2.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not apply in the case of foreigners (other than Manchoukuoans) disposing of property owned outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

Article 21. New paragraph.

2. The Ambassador may, when he considers it necessary, indicate matters and persons for the purpose of exempting them from the limitations laid down in this Ordinance on transactions and actions.

Article 26. New paragraph.

2. Persons resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) on the 1st March 1938, and who have contracted to make a deposit or a consumptive loan expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency, shall make a report to the Ambassador, as determined elsewhere, within one month of the enforcement of this Ordinance; but this shall not be necessary in case the amount is less than one thousand yen.

Article 27.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 1.00)
- 4 -

Article 27. Subsections 6-8, 12 and 13 are amended as follows:

6. The obtaining of a credit expressed in foreign currency (except foreign exchange or a bond expressed in foreign currency), or of a credit expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency for a person resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

7. The making or withdrawal of a deposit expressed in foreign currency, or of a deposit with a person resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency.

8. The making or receiving repayment of a loan expressed in foreign currency, or of a loan to a person resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency.

12. The receipt or repayment of a deposit in foreign currency, or of a deposit from a person resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency.

13. The borrowing or repaying of a loan expressed in foreign currency, or of a loan from a person resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency.

Article 28. New paragraphs.

2. Persons who possess current account balances or other offsetting balances within the territory, and are resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), shall, as determined elsewhere, make a report to the Ambassador for every month not later than the 15th day of the following month.

3. Persons who carry on industry or business outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) shall, as determined elsewhere, report to the Ambassador the income and expenditure arising outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) in respect of such industry or business for the periods January - June and July - December respectively of each year; and also the circumstances of remittances and other capital movements to or from this territory, as well as particulars of assets and liabilities held outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) at the end of each such period.

The report

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
- 5 -

The report which is to be submitted to the Ambassador in accordance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraph must be despatched within one month after the end of the period, and, upon receipt by the head office or corresponding entity, must be submitted without delay.

4. Persons who possess property (other than foreign bonds, deposits, loans and titles to usufruct of trusts) outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) shall, as determined elsewhere, report to the Ambassador particulars of the increase or decrease thereof for the periods January-June and July-December respectively of each year, and also the value thereof at the end of each such period: but this shall not be necessary in case the value of the said property at the end of the period is less than the equivalent of ten thousand yen in all.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not apply to Government departments nor to persons carrying on industry or business outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

The provisions of paragraph 2 of the foregoing Article shall be applicable in the same way as paragraph 1, mutatis mutandis.

5. The report which is to be submitted to the Ambassador, in accordance with the provisions of Article 27, in respect of transactions and actions outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), must be despatched not later than the 15th day of the following month, and, upon receipt by the head office or corresponding entity, must be submitted without delay.

Article 29. (As amended).

A person who owns foreign currency, foreign exchange, or a foreign bond: or who has made a deposit, or a consumptive loan, or entered into a trust or contracted insurance, expressed in foreign currency: or who has made a deposit, or contracted a consumptive loan, expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency, while resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), shall, upon coming into possession of a residence within the territory, submit the information to the Ambassador not later than the 15th day of the following month: but this shall not be necessary in case the amount is less than the equivalent of one thousand yen.

The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not be applicable to a foreigner (except a Manchoukuoan) except as regards foreign exchange.

Article 31.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 1.00)
- 6 -

Article 31. (As amended).

When he considers it necessary the Ambassador shall designate a matter and a person and require a report to be submitted other than one specified in this Ordinance, or he may waive, or extend the time limit for, the submission of a report specified in this Ordinance.

Article 32. (As amended).

When he considers it necessary the Ambassador shall cause an official to examine the books of, or make any other investigation in respect of, any person, in connection with any necessary matter in relation to a prohibition or restriction specified in Article 1 of the Law for the Control of Foreign Exchange, or in relation to an order for disposal as specified in Article 4 of the said Law (which is made applicable by the Ordinance for the Control of Foreign Exchange in the Kwantung Province and the South Manchuria Railway Zone).

Article 33. (As amended).

The Ambassador may, otherwise than as determined in this Ordinance, order a person who is in possession of property as enumerated below, to sell the same to a person designated by himself, or to dispose of it in any other necessary way; or he may forbid or set limits to such disposal:-

(a). Gold bullion, foreign currency and foreign exchange.

(b). Bonds or credits expressed in foreign currency, or credits for persons resident outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) expressed in Japanese or Manchoukuo currency.

(c). Property not specified in the two foregoing subsections which is held outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

Article 34. (As amended).

The provisions of Articles 2, 3, and 5 shall not be applicable to the transactions and actions in Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchoukuo of persons who have a residence or place of business or office in this territory, in case the Foreign Exchange Control Ordinance in those respective territories is applicable to them.

(Promulgated on March 29, 1938 and in force from that date.)

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
Assure no. 2 to despatch no. 21 dated May 17, 1938, from William T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen, Manchuria, on subject of Transmitting Exchange Control Law.

SWAN TUNG BUREAU ORDINANCE NO. 95 OF OCTOBER 8, 1937
REVISION OF THE EXCHANGE CONTROL LAW FOR LEASTUNG
PROVINCE AND S.M.R. CONE, ENFORCED BY THE AMBASSADOR
AND PLENIPOT ENTIARY MINISTER TO MANCHUKUO---
PENKICHI UYED.

---

Article 1. Unless the permission of the Ambassador is obtained, it is prohibited to export gold coins, gold bullion, gold alloy and material with gold as its principal content to places outside this territory (except to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo.) It is prohibited to destroy or mutilate gold coins. When anyone exports gold coin, gold bullion, gold alloy or material with gold as its principal content under permit, a report shall be submitted to the Ambassador through the Manchukuo Customs House or West Office, as separately provided for.

Article 11. Acquisition of foreign currency (excluding Manchukuo currency) or foreign exchange, without commercial necessity, demand, or actual requirement is prohibited. (Here and hereinafter, by "Foreign Exchange" is meant "Bills of Exchange, Checks, Orders to Pay, Telegraphic Remittances and Post Office Money Orders which are intended to emanate from this territory to places outside this territory (excluding, however, Yen exchanges or Manchukuo dollar exchange between this territory and Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo). The purchase and sale of Yen Exchange or Manchukuo Currency Exchange on places outside this territory without commercial necessity, demand or actual requirement, is prohibited.

Article 111. Except with the permission of the Ambassador, the undermentioned transactions or acts are prohibited:

1. The purchase of foreign currency or foreign exchange against Yen or Manchukuo currency as counter-value
2. The sale of foreign exchange against Yen or Manchukuo currency, to anyone other than a Foreign Exchange Bank, or with the intention of setting-off exchange purchased.
3. The sale or purchase of Yen foreign exchange, against foreign currency.
4. Remittances abroad, in the form of currency, Manchukuo currency, Foreign Currency, checks or drafts, either by forwarding, by carrying in person, or otherwise remitting, not in accordance with the provisions of Article 1, and this Article.
V. Payments in this territory, based on instructions from abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo).

Article 1V. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding Article, the transactions or acts mentioned therein require no permit of the Ambassador in the undermentioned instances. However, a limit of less than $1,000.- (Yen one thousand) is set for taking out or remitting of Yen currency, Manchukuo currency or foreign currency abroad (with the exception of Clause VII of this Article.)

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -

1. When necessary in exporting goods from this territory or Manchukuo, abroad, (with the exception of securities: say, public and private bonds) or when necessary in importing goods from abroad to this territory or Manchukuo.

2. When necessary to remit to the owner living abroad, interests accrued on public and private bonds or bank deposits, or profit of trusts.

3. When necessary for a resident travelling abroad to carry less than $1,000.- or its equivalent in the form of currency, Manchukuo currency, or foreign currency, as travelling expenses.

4. When necessary for a resident travelling abroad to carry with him checks covering one year's requirements for travelling expenses of less than $1,000.- of equivalent, including letter of credit.

5. When necessary to remit to a traveller abroad (from Jairen) less than $1000.- including amount of letter or credit or other funds the traveller may have had with him already at the time of his departure, as his requirements for one year for travelling expenses, salary, allowances, educational expenses and similar items, or when remitting for living expenses of one's family living abroad less than $100.- for one year.

6. When purchasing or selling exchange under, or making payments under Letters of credit opened in this territory or Japan, Korea, Formosa, Harufuto or Manchukuo.

7. When doing the Government's business, or filling the requirements of the Government.

VIII. When, in addition to the above, remitting or making payments less than $200.- or its equivalent per year.

Article V. Without the permit of the Ambassador, Foreign Currency Securities (hereinafter Foreign Currency Securities) will be taken to mean public bonds, private bonds, shares or the coupons thereof expressed in foreign currency, and those public bonds, private bonds, and shares which are registered and expressed in foreign currency) cannot be secured by purchase. The foregoing rule shall not be applied to the foreign currency securities held in this territory on October 5, 1933 and those legally imported according to the provisions of Article 7, Clause 1 of the old Exchange Law, or when a foreigner (excluding Manchurian) obtained them with funds held abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Harufuto and Manchukuo).

Article VI. Without the permit of the Ambassador, no transfer of foreign exchange holdings against Yen or Manchukuo currency as counter value except foreign currency and foreign securities.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

is allowed in this territory.

Article VII. Without the permit of the Ambassador, no deposit, or borrowing, for the purpose of obtaining foreign exchange holdings or obligations expressed in foreign currency, on whosesoever account it may be, is allowed in this territory.

Article VIII. Without the permit of the Ambassador, no trust or insurance contract (except re-insurance and marine insurance) for the purpose of obtaining foreign currency holdings or obligations expressed in foreign currency, is allowed in this territory.

Article IX. Without the permit of the Ambassador, it is prohibited to issue local and private bonds expressed in foreign currency, or to borrow in foreign currency abroad (excepting Japan, Korea, Formosa, Arafuto and Manchukuo) against mortgage of properties in this territory, Japan, Korea, Formosa, Arafuto or Manchukuo.

Article X. Without the permit of the Ambassador, it is prohibited to acquire Letters of Credit in this territory (excepting credits favouring Japan, Korea, Formosa, Arafuto and Manchukuo). Exceptions to this rule are allowed as follows:

1. For importation of goods into this territory or Manchukuo and exportation of goods from this territory or Manchukuo

2. For travelers letter of credit in equivalent up to $1000 to be acquired within two weeks of one's departure, being necessary expenses for one year's travel abroad including checks or drafts one may have with on one's departure.

111. When acquiring Letters of Credit for travel on behalf of Government

1V. When acquiring funds of less than $1000.- or equivalent including checks or drafts or other letters of credit or funds as the traveller may have with him, to enable one travel abroad for one year. (The $1000.- to include travelling expenses, salaries, allowances, educational expenses, and the like) and such funds as acquired under provisions of Article 3.

Article XI. Without the permit of the Ambassador, it is prohibited to import securities from abroad (except from Japan, Korea, Formosa, Arafuto) or to export securities abroad (except to Japan, Korea, Formosa and Arafuto) Exceptions to the rule are the following:

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -

1. Importations after the maturity date or within three months prior to the maturity date for the purpose of receiving payment for the security in this territory.

2. Import or export of shares for sending to the Company, Government or public office, or its financial agency, in order that the shareholders, directors or holders of such public or private bonds may take necessary steps toward protection of rights or duties based on the law here or abroad or articles of the association.

3. Import or export of such public and private bonds for the purpose of presenting same as per provisions of the preceding clause to the Company, Government or public office, or its financial agent or for returning them.

4. Export or import of shares, public and private bonds to present to the acceptor of the shares, or the applicant of the bonds.

5. Export or import to, and/or from, Manchukuo, securities expressed in yen or Manchukuo currency. Those who imported securities from abroad (with the exception of Japan, Ceres, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo) or exported abroad securities (with the exception of Japan, Ceres, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo) are requested to make a report to the Ambassador within two weeks, as separately provided for. (A party travelling abroad should report before his departure).

Article III. Without the permit of the Ambassador it is prohibited to export abroad without drawing for a part or the whole of the value (that is, exports outside this territory to places other than to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo). Exceptions are allowed on the undermentioned occasions:

1. When exporting samples or presents
2. When exporting on consignment or forwarding or returning goods exported or imported on consignment.

3. When payment has already been received from abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo) in the territory before the export was effected or when the export has been made in order to replace the merchandise for which the payment was received previously in this territory (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Parafuto and Manchukuo) in this territory.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -

4. When there is a definite contract whereby payment will be received from abroad (excepting Japan, Korea, Formosa, Marafuto or Manchukuo) in this territory within two months of the export.

5. When exporting for payment of sales commissions, compensations, or other expenses as a result import or export to and/or from this territory or Manchukuo.

6. When exporting goods for which payment can be determined only after the delivery.

7. When exporting by mail goods or less than 1000.- in value, or sending goods by rail on cash on delivery basis.

8. When exporting under bill for collection goods valued at less than 0,000.- throughout one month, stipulated terms that the drawee result proceeds within one month to this territory.

9. When exporting goods valued at less than 100.-

10. When exporting according to the requirements of the Government.

11. When exporting under bills of exchange on bank in this territory and selling same under a letter of credit received from abroad (excepting Japan, Korea, Formosa, Marafuto and Manchukuo) or for exporting baggage, ship's utensils, (including shipping boat's utensils); or when drawing foreign exchange and receiving payment upon submission of shipping documents to a bank in this territory.

Article XII. When a person exports goods abroad (excepting to Japan, Korea, Formosa, Marafuto and Manchukuo) without drawing draft for the whole amount, he is requested to make at the time of shipping or submitting to the post office, a report to the Ambassador through the Manchukuo Customs House or the Post Office in question, as per provisions separately enforced. Exceptions are as follows:

1. Donations for charity or the needy
2. Exports effected by the Government
3. Shipments valued at less than 1000
4. Baggages, removal cargo and ship's outfittings

Article XIV. A person exporting goods, drawing for a part or the whole of the value, on a foreign place (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Marafuto and Manchukuo) is required to report to the Ambassador through the Manchukuo Customs or the sending Post Office at the time of the export, in regard to the drawing, as per provisions separately enforced.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -

NOTE: Goods mentioned in clauses in the preceding Article 13 excepted. After the making of the above report, if no change takes place in the amount of the draft drawn, a report shall be submitted to the Ambassador through the Manchukuo Customs House or the sending post office, accompanied by certificate of the negotiating bank, within two weeks of the shipments, according to provisions as separately enforced.

Article IV After the making of the report as set forth in Article 14, if actually no draft was drawn, or if the amount of the draft is finally negotiated was altered, a report shall be submitted to the Ambassador through the Manchukuo Customs House or the sending post office within two weeks of the shipment, as per provisions as separately enforced. When the amount of the draft is changed, a certificate of the negotiating bank should be attached. When a person has exported (excepting to Japan, Korea, Ordos, Prafuto, and Manchukuo) and has negotiated a draft for a part or whole of the value, and desires to refund, or purchase back the drawing, a report shall be submitted to the Ambassador immediately through the Manchukuo Customs House or the sending post office.

Article VI When a person reports goods or securities abroad (except Japan, Korea, Ordos, Prafuto, and Manchukuo) without drawing a draft for the whole or a part of the value, and intends to get payment from abroad, he is requested to recover the proceeds within five months of the arrival of the shipment, at the foreign destination, after deducting therefrom expenses incurred abroad and the cost of the goods, imported into this territory and Manchukuo. However, with the permit of the Ambassador, this rule may be waived. The status of collections of proceeds shall be reported to the Ambassador monthly, not later than the fifteenth of the following month according to provisions separately enforced.

Article VII Persons who hold in this territory (or Japan, Korea, Formosa, Prafuto or Manchukuo) foreign currency securities which have matured or are maturing, shall upon disposing of same, receive payment in this territory (or Japan, Korea, Formosa, Prafuto or Manchukuo) within three months after such maturity date. However with the permission of the Ambassador, this rule shall no apply.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-

Article XVIII. Persons who hold abroad (exception Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) foreign currency securities and interest or dividends receivable abroad which have matured or are maturing, shall upon disposing of same, receive payment in this territory (or Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) within three months of such maturity.

NOTE: 1. The Ambassador's permission, this rule can be waived. When a person sells foreign currency securities owned abroad (except Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto or Manchukuo) or receives payment therefor, or receives dividends or profits accruing on foreign security abroad (except Japan, Korea, or Japan, Karafuto or Manchukuo) or disposes of rights to receive same, the proceeds, after deduction of the expenses spent abroad relative to the foreign security, and the profit or dividend therefrom shall be remitted to this territory within two months.

NOTE: 2. However, the whole amount does not exceed $1000.- or equivalent, or the profit of the Ambassador is obtained, this rule shall not apply.

Article 1. Banks in existence on the after October 8, 1937 and banks starting to handle foreign exchange business (including quasi-banks) are requested to get the profit of the Ambassador. Banks who applied on or before December 7, 1937 for permit to handle foreign exchange, or banks who obtained such permit, or banks who have secured permits according to the provisions of this Article 19, shall be called Foreign Exchange Banks, and their places or business shall be announced by the Ambassador. When a foreign exchange bank desires to discontinue a part or the whole of its foreign exchange business, or have its name or address changed, it shall submit beforehand an application to the Ambassador, who shall make due announcement of the change.

Article 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 5, 6 and 11, foreign exchange banks can engage in the undermentioned transactions and acts, without the permit of the Ambassador:

1. The sale or purchase of foreign exchange (including quasi-exchange transactions) according to the demands of the customers.

2. The sale or purchase of foreign exchange or remittance abroad, of funds resulting from such sale or purchase of foreign currency or foreign exchange, according to provisions of Clause 1.

3. Remittance abroad of proceeds of collections made in this territory.

4. Payment of remittances received fr

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -

5. Exporting abroad of foreign currency securities three months prior to due date of after due date, in order to obtain payment (this to include securities tendered by clients for collection.)

The provisions of Article 16 will not apply to foreign exchange banks, when exporting foreign currency securities. The provisions of Article 17 and 18 will not apply to foreign exchange banks. When the Ambassador deems it necessary, he may require applications for transactions mentioned in Clause 1 of this Article.

Article XI. When a foreign exchange bank becomes a party to a transaction or act as mentioned in Article 3 and 10, it is expected to be responsible in the matter of whether it is necessary for the customer to obtain a permit for the transaction, according to the rules.

Article XII. Foreign exchange banks are requested to report daily to the Ambassador, (not later than three days in each case), according to provisions separately enforced, and foreign exchange transactions (including transactions in what is known as quasi-foreign exchanges), the sale and purchase of exchange, the handling of foreign currency collections, payment of remittances and opening of letters of credit between this territory and Japan, or, to.

Article XIII. Foreign exchange banks are requested to report, not later than three days in each case, daily amounts of foreign currency and exchange sold and purchased, as well as the extent of short or long positions in foreign currency or foreign exchange.

Article XIV. Parties wanting to engage in the sale or purchase of foreign exchange as a business on and after October 8, 1937 (this not to include banks) are requested to make application to the Ambassador and report the address of the office where business is done. Parties who had made due application for such business prior to October 7, 1937 (this not to include banks) or parties who apply in accordance with the foregoing clause, are called exchange-shops; such are requested to apply in advance to the Ambassador when a change in the shop, or its discontinuation is to take place.

Article XV. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3 and 6, banks and exchange shops are not required to obtain permit when they purchase foreign currency or foreign currency travellers checks in the course of business.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-

Article XXVI
Parties making it their main business to sell or purchase securities, or act as broker, are requested to report to the Ambassador monthly, by the fifteenth of each following month, as per provisions separately enforced, details of their sales and purchases of foreign securities, or their brokerage transactions.

Article XXVII
On and after this date, all parties who have engaged in the undermentioned transactions or acts, vis-a-vis this territory and abroad, are requested to report to the Ambassador the details, by the fifteenth of the following month, according to provisions separately enforced. (NOTE: any transaction or act that does not involve as much as the equivalent of Yen 1,000.- shall be treated as an exception).

1. The acquisition or disposition of foreign currency
2. The acquisition or disposition of foreign exchange
3. Otherwise making remittances abroad (except Japan, .ore., etc.)
4. The acquisition or disposition of foreign currency securities
5. Opening or securing letters of credit
6. Acquisition of other rights expressed in foreign currency.
7. Making deposits or withdrawing deposits expressed in foreign currency.
8. Advancing or withdrawing loans expressed in foreign currency
9. Seeking or securing trusts expressed in foreign currency
10. Contracting for insurance expressed in foreign currency
11. Issuing or calling-in local and private bonds expressed in foreign currency
12. Receiving or paying credits expressed in foreign currency
13. Borrowing or reimbursing for debits, amounts expressed in foreign currency.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.95)
- 10 -

14. Making payments in this territory on instructions from abroad (except Japan, etc.)

Despite certain periods set for reports, in this article, those who travel abroad are requested to report any of these transactions or acts mentioned, before departure.

Article XVII The preceding article shall not apply for transactions or acts engaged in the foreigners entirely abroad (except in Japan, etc.)

Article 1. Those who have foreign currency, foreign exchange, foreign currency securities, deposits or other rights expressed in foreign currency, or obligations for accounts payable or loans expressed in foreign currency, or contracts of trust or insurance expressed in foreign currency, and who have residence in this territory, are requested to report to the Ambassador not later than the fifteenth of the following month, according to provisions separately enforced.

(1. Counts of loans to -100.- or equivalent need not be reported)

Excepting foreign exchange, the foregoing shall not apply to foreigners, though such loans are not excepted.

Article 2. The party obliged to take a report in accordance with the provisions of this law is not able to do so within the stipulated time owing to causes beyond his control, he is requested to make such report immediately after such cause shall have ceased to exist.

Article 3. In his discretion, the Ambassador may call for reports other than those set forth in this law, or may waive requirements as to reports, even those stipulated as obligatory in this law.

Article 4. In his discretion, the Ambassador may direct inspection at any time, of the books of any party, in connection with prohibitions or limitations set forth in Article No. 1 of the Foreign Exchange Law.

Article 5. The Deems any party's holding of gold bullion, foreign currency, foreign exchange, securities or rights expressed in foreign currency not necessary for business or other proper reasons, the Ambassador may command such party to dispose of same, or he may appoint a substitute, for himself, to command such dispositions.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
-11-

Article XXXIV The provisions of Article 2, 3 and 5 shall not apply to transactions or acts, in this territory vis-a-vis Japan, Korea, Formosa, and Marfuto, or juridical persons maintaining head office or having main business office in this territory, or of natural persons having residence in this territory.

Article XXXV Transactions or acts for which one has already obtained permit from the Treasury Minister, Governor-General of Korea, Governor-general of Formosa, or Chief Governor of Marfuto, or in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Control Law, do not require permit of the Ambassador as previously set forth herein.

Article XXXVI When a party not subject to punishment under the terms of the Foreign Exchange Control Law for eventing province and the . . . one, is found guilty of evasions that call for punishment in the terms of the law, he shall be detained or fined.

Article II VII Documents necessary for the reports of applications to the Ambassador, are published separately.

The Law is effective from the date of promulgation, but Articles 12 to 15 are effective on 2nd October 1937. Bank notes issued by the Yokohama, and Manchukuo, and which are not considered as foreign currency, are mentioned in Article 3, clause 1. One who had obtained permit of the Ambassador under revisions of the later exchange control law shall be considered as having secured permit under the present law (for an identical, not yet completed, transaction). Acts committed prior to enforcement of the present law, punishable under the old law, shall be dealt with under the provisions of the old law.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 3 to despatch No. 21. dated May 17, 1938, from T. Turner, American Consul at Dairen, Manchuria, on of Transmitting Exchange Control Law.

TRANSLATION.

Order, based on the Ordinance for the Control of Foreign Exchange in Kwantung Province and the South Manchuria Railway Zone, regarding Restrictions on Payments for Goods Imported, Imports not covered by Foreign Exchange, and Payments by Foreign Exchange Banks on instructions from outside the Territory of Enforcement of the Order.

(Kwantung Bureau Ordinance No. 97 of October 8th, 1937.)

Article 1. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (i) and (vi) of Article 4 of the Regulations for the Control of Foreign Exchange in Kwantung Province and the South Manchuria Railway Zone (hereinafter referred to as the Regulations) no transaction or action (including the carrying out of a contract in foreign exchange entered into before the enforcement of this Order) specified in Article 3 of the Regulations may, unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, be carried out or performed in order to effect the necessary settlement of payment for goods imported into the territory of enforcement of this Order (hereinafter referred to as the territory) or Manchoukuo from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan, Korea, Formosa, Karafuto, and Manchoukuo - hereinafter referred to as Japan and Manchoukuo); provided that this shall not apply in the undermentioned cases:

(i) when the transactions or actions involve an amount not exceeding one thousand yen in one month;
(ii) when exchange is sold in connection with a letter of credit obtained after permission has been received in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 below, or obtained, without such permission, in accordance with the provisions of the proviso to that Article, or when exchange is sold in order to pay such a letter of credit, or to buy exchange for the same purpose;
(iii) when necessary in order to settle a documentary bill in connection with goods already imported, or already shipped from a place outside the territory, on the date of enforcement of this Order;
(iv) when it is necessary, in order to fulfil a foreign exchange contract entered into before the date of enforcement of this Order, to settle a documentary bill in connection with goods shipped from a place outside the territory within one week after that date.

Article 2.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -

Article 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (i) of Article 10 of the Regulations no letter of credit necessary in connection with the import of goods into the territory or Manchoukuo from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) may be acquired unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received; provided that this shall not apply when the sum involved does not exceed one thousand yen in one month.

Article 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Regulations no person who has exported goods, or a bond, of which the whole or a part of the value has not been covered by foreign exchange, to a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), or who is to receive the cost of such goods or bond at a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), may unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, apply the whole or a part of any sum received in this connection to payment for goods imported into the territory or Manchoukuo.

Article 4. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received no bond, deposit, loan, or other credit expressed in foreign currency, which is owned outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), may be disposed of, or used as collateral, in order to receive a loan expressed in foreign currency at a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo), with the purpose of effecting the necessary settlement of payment for goods imported into the territory or Manchoukuo from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo).

Article 5. Unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received no goods of which the whole or a part of the value has not been covered by foreign exchange may be imported from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo); provided that this shall not apply in the undermentioned cases:

(i) the import of goods, in connection with which permission has been received, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 above, respecting a transaction or action necessary for a settlement of payment;
(ii) the import of goods, in connection with which permission is not required, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 1 to 2 above, respecting a transaction or action necessary for a settlement of payment;
(iii) the import of goods from a place outside the territory which have been already shipped on, or are shipped within one week after, the date of enforcement of this Order;
(iv) the import of a sample, a gift, or an article to be shown at an exhibition;

(v) the

=== Page 34 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

(v) the import of an object, now returned, which was originally exported from the territory or Manchoukuo;
(vi) the import of an object for repair;
(vii) the import, on the same vessel, of the catch of a fishing vessel which sailed from a place within the territory;
(viii) the import of hand luggage, or luggage on removal of residence;
(ix) import based on the necessities of a Government Office;
(x) imports not specified in any of the foregoing subsections of which the value does not exceed one thousand yen in one month.

Article 6. When a foreign exchange bank (including an entity corresponding to a foreign exchange bank, and similarly hereinafter) is a party to a transaction or action specified in Article 1 or 2 above it shall ascertain whether its customer has received permission, in accordance with the provisions of this Order, to carry out or perform such transaction or action, or whether it is not necessary to receive permission therefor.

Article 7. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Regulations a foreign exchange bank shall not, unless the permission of the Ambassador has been received, make a payment to a bank (including one of its own offices and an entity corresponding to a bank) within the territory which is based on a commission received from a person outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo); provided that this shall not apply to the payment of any one exchange remittance (not including a telegraphic transfer) which does not exceed ten thousand yen.

Article 8. Procedure in connection with application for permission under the provisions of Article 1 to 4 and Article 7 above shall be in accordance with the provisions of Articles 1, 4 to 8, 12, 13, 17, and 23 of the Regulations for the Enforcement of the Regulations for the Control of Foreign Exchange in Kwantung Province and the South Manchuria Railway Zone (hereinafter referred to as the Regulations for Enforcement); provided that an application under the provisions of Article 4 above shall include the necessary relevant particulars.

Article 9. Procedure in connection with application for permission under Article 5 above shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the Regulations for Enforcement, and in this case the form of the application shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of the Regulations for Enforcement and shall include the necessary relevant particulars.

Article 10. A person who during the year 1936 imported into the territory or Manchoukuo from a place outside the

territory

=== Page 35 === (confidence 1.00)
- 4 -

territory or Manchoukuo from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) goods of a value not less than fifty thousand yen shall draw up a report, and submit it to the Ambassador within one month after the date of enforcement of this Order, regarding the state of his settlements of payments for goods imported during 1935, 1936, and the first nine months of 1937.

Article 11. A person who has imported goods from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) and received the permission specified in one of Articles 1 to 5 above shall present the permit, at the time when customs formalities have been compiled with or delivery by post takes place, to the Manchoukuo Customs or the post office making delivery.

Article 12. A person who carries out or performs transactions or actions specified in one of Articles 1 to 4 above in order to effect a settlement of payment for goods imported into the territory or Manchoukuo from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) shall draw up an import report monthly in duplicate and submit it to the Ambassador by the fifteenth day of the following month through the Manchoukuo Customs or the post office making delivery.

Article 13. A person who imports goods of which the whole or a part of the value is not covered by foreign exchange into the territory from a place outside the territory (excluding Japan and Manchoukuo) shall submit an import report corresponding, mutatis mutandis, with the report specified in the foregoing Article, except in a case when the latter report has been submitted; provided that this shall not apply in the undermentioned cases:

(i) when goods are imported to be donated for purposes of charity or relief;
(ii) when goods are imported by a Government Office;
(iii) when goods are imported by a value not greater than one hundred yen;
(iv) when hand luggage or luggage on removal of residence is imported.

Article 14. When a person who wishes to settle a documentary bill in connection with goods already imported into the territory or Manchoukuo without receiving permission therefor, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 1, 3, or 4 above, has completed the import of such goods he shall draw up a report regarding the import and submit it to the Ambassador within two weeks after the date of enforcement of this Order; when the goods are imported after the date of enforcement of this Order the report shall be submitted within two weeks after the date of import.

Article 15. A person who has not been punished under the provisions of the Law for the Control of Foreign

Exchange
