894C.00 Kwantung Leased Territory, Political Affairs., September 12, 1935 - October 6, 1936 (File 929)
ID: 894C.00-929   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.00-kwantung-leased-territory-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
894C.00/2
2

DOCUMENT FILE

NOTE

SEE 894c.01/84 FOR Despatch #-

FROM Manking (Atcheson) DATED Sept.12,1935.
/70/// NAME 1-1187

REGARDING: Report on Kwantung Leased Territory:Prepared by John Carter Vincent, formerly Consul at Dairen. Transmitted from Legation at Manking.

fpg

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
Copy for Department
DCT
FF
1916

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

G76

American Consulate, Deiren, Manchuria, October 6, 1936.

SUBJECT: Thirtieth Anniversary of the Kwantung Government

Erle R. Dickover, Esquire,
American Charge d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo, Japan.

Sir:

I have the honor to report that on October 1, 1936, the 30th anniversary of the Kwantung Government was celebrated in Fort Arthur, having been postponed from September 1, the real anniversary, on account of the coincidence of the latter date with the 1923 earthquake in Japan.

Aside from the historic interest of the completion of three decades of Japanese rule in the Kwantung Leased Territory, the occasion was chiefly of interest by reason of the importance lent to it by the presence of Generals Heda and Itagaki, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs Chasai, and Mr. R. Takebe, Director of the Kwantung Bureau, among Japanese dignitaries of the present regime in Manchuria and of Premier Chang Ching-hui, and the "Manchukuo" Ministers of War and Education, Messrs.

Yu Chi-hsa

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

Yu Chi-hsa and Yuan Chen-tse, among their Chinese lieutenants. Including all of the above, the dozen odd official speakers at the commemoration ceremonies, which took place on the shore of Port Arthur Bay in front of the Russian built edifice housing the Territorial Government, all stressed the importance of this area as the historical and economic link between Japan and "Yankoukuo".

Since in general the same successes and failures of Japanese administration in this Territory may be expected to be found in the future, in Japan's dependency to the port, it is worth noting that the most conspicuous failure of the Japanese in this area, that of attempting to educate the local Chinese to play any but a coolie or petty shopkeeper role, was admitted by Mr. Takebe in the course of public statement a do while here. The following excerpt from the JOURNAL OF THE STATE OF October 1, 1936, is of interest in this connection:

"Especially noteworthy is the improvement of educational facilities for the Hanchu natives living in the District. In the beginning of the Kwantung administration, nearly the entire Hanchu populace was illiterate. Now, however, the percentage of Hanchu children being educated is as high as 30. . . . Particularly in the case of the latter (public schools), the total number of applicants annually is more than double the number to be admitted. In order to meet this remarkable tendency, new kokagudo are being established every year while expanding the accommodations of the existing ones.

"A considerable sum of money is set aside in the 1937 budget of the Kwantung Bureau for the further improvement of educational facilities

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -

facilities for the Manchu younger generation. It might appear that the authorities of the District hitherto have been somewhat less enthusiastic about the education of the Manchus than they should have been, but I am pleased to announce hereby that in the future our authorities will direct greater efforts and attention in this direction with a view to cementing the relationship of indivisibility between the nations of Japan and Manchoukuo."

Respectfully yours,

Stuart L. Grummon,
American Consul.

800
SIG:L

Two copies to Department
Copy to Embassy, Beijing
Copy to Embassy, Harkin
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Berlin
Copy to Consulate General, London
