894C.131 Correction And Punishment. Statistics., Kwantung Leased Territory, Prisons And Reformatories., April 23, 1935 (File 858)
ID: 894C.131-858   Pages: 6   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894c.131-correction-and-punishment-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
Copy for Department
8 1935
AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
American Consulate, Dairen, Manchuria, April 23, 1935.
Division of FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY 23 1935
Department of State
SUBJECT: Report on Prison Administration in the Kwantung Leased Territory.
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew, Pj
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
RECEIVED
MAY 28 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 28 1935
894C.131/1
FILED
JUN 1 - 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 28 1935
894C.131/1

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

courteously received by the chief of the prison, a kindly appearing Japanese of 35 years experience in the Japanese prison service. He was most obliging and readily answered the questions about prison management which I put to him.

The prison at present contains about 770 inmates of whom 50 per cent are Japanese, 30 per cent Chinese, and 20 per cent Koreans. Among the Japanese sex crimes loom large, among Chinese and Koreans, banditry and burglary are frequent. All three groups likewise contain numerous representatives whose offense is harboring unorthodox political thoughts.

The general appearance, order and cleanliness of the prison were excellent. The compound is surrounded by a brick wall only about 14 feet high. Guards with rifles are stationed at convenient intervals on top of the wall. The latter encloses some 20 odd buildings of reasonably attractive architecture, of which half, I should judge, date from the Russian period, while the rest are of more recent Japanese construction, somewhat similar in architecture to the former but better in appearance. This is particularly true of the cell blocks as the workshops are all of very simple design consisting of one room some 30 x 60 feet in dimensions. The Russian cell blocks have been remodeled to let in as much light as the structural features will permit. The prisoners work 9 hours a day in the shops which are separate from the cell buildings. They are engaged in a variety of prison industries, among others, clothing,

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-

clothing, sandal making, cabinet work, furniture construction, lacquer work, the manufacture of leather suitcases, jewelry, canes, sword racks, artistic screens, picture frames, etc. The standard of workmanship is excellent, under the guidance and instruction of Japanese teachers employed for the purpose from outside the prison service. The articles are disposed of to local shopkeepers in Dairen and Port Arthur and the prisoners are allowed a small percentage of the sale price. I was informed by the Director that no opposition to the competition of the prison industries has taken shape among outside producers.

The food served the prisoners three times a day, while simple, seems of good quality and the diet well balanced. The principal article of diet of Japanese prisoners is rice, and that of Chinese and Koreans, millet. The main meal in addition to the above consists of soup, some green vegetables and a small amount of meat, usually pork. Foreign prisoners unaccustomed to Oriental fare were said to be allowed a slightly different diet, although I have heard this statement contradicted. The prisoners look in excellent physical shape. The hospital which I visited was scrupulously clean and conducted by a young civilian doctor. There were about a dozen patients in the hospital at the time of my visit, as well as some 8 or 10 in one wing of the infirmary whom I did not see who were said to be criminally insane.

strict

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

Strict discipline is maintained throughout the prison and the Director told me that no prison riots or insubordination of a general nature has ever taken place therein. The prisoners are not permitted to talk together on any occasion except regarding their actual work in hand. I asked the Director whether that rule was ever relaxed, to which he replied in the negative, although he said that, while not officially permitted, a certain amount of conversation in undertones takes place. The prisoners are given 20 minutes per day recreation, which is devoted to the care of their individual gardens. Many of the prisoners are employed in the general prison garden during the day or outside the prison grounds on the construction of roads. During such occupation they are dressed in the red prison garb and shackled together.

Punishments, I was informed, consist of cutting down the ration of food and drink, withdrawal of the recreation period, solitary confinement and whipping. The Director was reticent on the subject of the latter punishment.

The cells, in the newer Japanese section of the prison, were about 14 x 10 feet in dimensions, those in the Russian section somewhat smaller. All were clean and free from objectionable odors. The newer Japanese constructed cells are well lighted and ventilated. Six prisoners sleep in each cell and, each contains prisoners of only one nationality, as far as possible. The prisoners sleep on Japanese-style

quilted

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-

quilted beds, which are carefully folded and piled in one corner of the cell during the day. In the section of the prison reserved for individuals condemned to death or under suspended death sentence, the prisoners are in solitary confinement as well as those placed in such confinement for disciplinary reasons and those represented as "dangerous prisoners," whose crimes are of a political nature.

At the time of my visit, there were only six occidental inmates of the prison, one a Russian, who was working in the jewelry shop, and whose treatment appeared in every respect to be identical with that of the oriental prisoners, and 4 Germans and one Swiss who have been convicted on a charge of piracy and murder and sentenced to death. The latter were confined in individual cells and appeared to be receiving the same fare as that of the other inmates.

My conclusions are that the prison is extremely well administered, and that conditions of detention, at least outwardly, are as pleasant as could be expected under the circumstances. The prison was scrupulously clean, which may have been due to my expected visit, although I am inclined to believe not. The attitude and deferential respect shown to the Chief of the prison and the warders, who are armed only with "billies" bespoke an extremely effective discipline and one which I am inclined to believe was

not

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-

not wholly the result of persuasive measures.

Respectfully yours,

Stuart E. Grummon,
American Consul.

815
SEG:L

Two copies to Department
Copy to Legation, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo
Copy to Consulate General, Mukden
Copy to Consulate General, Harbin.
